https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9957.The_Cement_Garden
Will ever these tales of incest cease?
Another case in point: this early novel from major Nobel contender (I'm certain of this, right?) Ian McEwan.
"The Cement Garden" is considered by critics to be "Lord of the Flies"-like in its plot structure and because it contains young protagonists.
But I must venture to say that it mostly resembles an early version of Bertolucci's "Dreamers" (of course by that I mean its novel predecessor)-- this is similarly an enchanted but truly megagrueling experience.
After "Atonement", "Cement Garden" takes second place in the Maestro of English Prose's impressive (though...
Once you see that the ingredients have formed a foamy, light and creamy texture, with the young characters wiped out in generic sweet-sour blandness, you put the cake in the oven, and wait for sixty minutes, just enough time to read through the novel.Once the plot has been baked, you make sure to add incredibility and incest as additional spices, end it in an predictably wannabe-hot, but actually rather lukewarm decorative sexual shock icing on the cake.Put the cement cake on the Bake-Off table and be assured it will win prizes for the categories:Indulging in sinful calory countingWord Baking Fast Food StyleEffectful Surface and TextureEasy on the Digestive SystemMeaningless PleasureSweet with a Bitter AftertasteIt may not win the first prize, as it causes slight nausea afterwards, and it contains too many nuts and unnecessary ingredients.
This was McEwan’s very first novel, which earned him the fame and the nickname Ian Macabre.
It was narrated by a 15-year-old boy on his life with his three young siblings in a secluded big house shortly after the death of both parents.
They grew up in an isolated and dysfunctional family.
The lack of adult supervision and sexual experiences, and the yearning for kinship while desiring individual space, led them to explorations and experiments that beyond inexplicable.
It was haunting and disturbing to say the least.
Comparing to his later works I’ve read, it was simpler, more straightforward storytelling, but similarly atmospheric, with equally skilled character craftsmanship.
Left to their own devices, these children go through the motions of playing house and, you guessed it, they don't do it very well.The Cement Garden gives a predictably disturbing and occasionally icky picture of what can happen to kids isolated from the community and unsupervised by adults.
I thought there was more to say about the family, the kids' parents, their path to such a taboo closeness.
I just didn't quite get it or even if I did, the novel failed to affect me as much as Atonement and On Chesil Beach did in the past.
Ian McEwan's The Cement Garden is, quite clearly not for everyone.
There are several severely disturbing incidents throughout the book that might make some readers wonder why they bought it, and where is the nearest bookstore to return it?
In the hands of a lesser writer, much of this book would seem vulgar.
However, in McEwan's capable hands the book is instead disturbingly beautiful.
The book is very short, and to say almost anything about it is to give almost everything away, so you will find no excerpts or plot points in this review.
Suffice to say that The Cement Garden is a brilliant, gripping read that feels like it's over before it began.
This book is fucked-up, sick, and creepy...I loved it.
He doesn't clutter his writing with unnecessary words, yet he says so much.
Then, just when you're sufficiently creeped out or unnerved or whatever it is you've been feeling, it gets even more intense.
The book is a first-person narrative told by the eldest son of a family of four children.
It describes what the children do with themselves when both of their parents die relatively close to one another.
I don't want to give anything more away, but I want to say that I like it when a book unnerves me, and this did the job.
Told in straight-forward sentences, this first novel reads like a very good writer’s memoir. I love the deep truth of some pretty extreme behavior by a family of orphaned siblings, which portends the even more sophisticated truths of oblique human behavior in later books. There is none of the lyricism or solid chapters of inner dialogue that characterize McEwan’s style today. I’m glad I didn’t start with this book, because now that I am an ardent fan, it was even more interesting to see where he began.
3.5*, rounded up. This is quite dark and odd, which I like, but it felt a little incomplete. It's a very short book, yet even so the narrative lacked some necessary urgency. Still, it's a compelling read, and McEwan is a wonderful stylist, though in this book he's more restrained and straightforward than in Atonement.
Another one from the Mookse Madness list, and I don't think I would have read it otherwise. Unfortunately I was familiar with the plot from the film version, and this removed the key elements of shock and suspense that the plot relies on, which is not McEwan's fault. What remains seemed rather slight and rather obviously an early work. An easy read (apart from the subject matter) so I can't really begrudge the small amount of time I spent on it, but nor do I want to write a longer review.
Had I realised the true nature of it, I doubt I would have read it, and somehow the fact it is told in such an unjudgemental way almost makes it worse."I did not kill my father, but I sometimes think I helped him on his way", is the opening sentence.
Each tries different coping strategies, none of which really work: shy Julie (previously with a reputation for "disruptive, intimidating quietness") takes charge, Sue reads and also writes a diary, Tom regresses (a cot delivers "an enveloping pleasure in being tenderly imprisoned"), and Jack...
Concrete Civilisations Ian McEwan’s Cement Garden left me with the same disquieting feelings I had after reading William Golding’s Lord of the Flies. In fact, I became aware of their resemblance right from the beginning, not in the sense of an imitation, of course, far from it, but in the choice of the theme and the way to develop it. Both books argue about the famous nature versus nurture, showing how thin the shell of civilization is, how easy social conventions are forgotten when the link wi
The cement garden gains thus a triple significance: it refers either to the monstrous garden built by an obsessive, abusive and tasteless father, and to the ad-hoc grave of a submissive, without authority and ignorant mother and to the barren, catastrophic childhood of the protagonists left alone to discover that beings are interchangeable and rules are confusing and altogether futile in a world that gained the attributes of a perpetual, out of time nightmare:'It's funny,' Julie said, 'I've lost all sense of time.
Morboso il tema, come sempre elegante, senza per questo smettere di turbare, la ricostruzione di McEwan. Una famiglia su cui la presenza della morte grava così tanto da trasformare i legami tra i suoi componenti in qualcosa di ambiguo, surreale e feroce. Finale un po' troppo sensazionalistico ma il valore di questa narrazione sta nella descrizione lucidissima dei corpi, delle loro trasformazioni, di come la cultura si intrecci con gli istinti e provochi desideri e repulsioni, anche proibiti. L'adolescenza è proprio l'età benedetta da McEwan che la racconta con un lucore spesso abbagliante.
Well..! That was.. Hmm, weird? Yes, weird.And I'm not talking about that 'taboo' subject, that was actually not a focus in the book. Right? We just got glimpses but never full-on (view spoiler)[until the very last scene and even then it wasn't like graphic (hide spoiler)]The only thing I will say about this is it destroyed my appetite! I actually felt bile in my mouth. Not the taboo part but the (view spoiler)[burial and those cellar scenes. (hide spoiler)]It was a good thing the book was short otherwise I'd never have finished it.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
I haven't seen it again since then, though, so I have no idea what I'd think now, but at the time I just thought it was the greatest thing ever.
To me, this book read like a screenplay.
I mean, it's a little macabre, in its way, I suppose.
This should give us all hope.I really liked this book, and I might give it four stars.
But I'm so confused by having seen the movie at one point that I don't feel I can talk about this book with any authority.

Faltam-me 20 páginas para terminar este livro, mas vou arrumá-lo e já não lhe toco mais.
Por esta frase:"Sob vários aspectos um livro chocante, mórbido, cheio de imagens repugnantes mas...
E não estou para isso...(view spoiler)[O narrador é um adolescente (sempre com a mão dentro das cuecas) que vive com os pais, um irmão e duas irmãs (com as quais brinca aos médicos).
Quando o pai cai morto, em cima do cimento acabado de espalhar no jardim, o puto alisa a marca...Quando a mãe morre ele e uma das irmãs preparam uns baldes de cimento.
é uma festa...e eu nem fiquei para o "fogo de artifício"...
از شخصیت دِرِک متنفر بودممیدونم که این آرزویی غیرممکن هست ولی خدا هیچ خونه و هیچ کودک خردسالی رو بدون پدر و مادر نکنه....
Morbidno, šokantno, uznemirujuće...McEwan odlično piše, a izvetropirena ljudska priroda nikad nije bila mračnije i mučnije prikazana. "Betonski vrt" definitivno nije za svakoga.
“Dejad que los niños se acerquen a mí...de los que son como ellos es el reino del Señor.”  Perdónalo, Señor, porque no sabía lo que decía.
Αυτο το βιβλίο φαίνεται να αποτελεί τον ορισμο της βαρεμάρας.
Δεν έχω ξαναδιαβασει μακΓιουαν, αλλα μου φανηκε κάπως ανευρο, σαν ο ιδιος ο συγγραφέας να βαρεθηκε το βιβλίο του, να μην εδωσε ό,τι μπορούσε να δώσει για την ιστορία και τους χαρακτηρες του.
Οχι οτι δεν το διαβασα με ευκολία ή οτι δεν είχε ενδιαφέρον ανα σημεία, αλλά δεν ήταν και κατι που θα θυμαμαι για καιρό.
Ελπίζω τα άλλα δικά του να είναι πιο αξιόλογα αναγνώσματα γιατί σκοπεύω να ξαναδιαβάσω κάτι δικό του.
Με την ελπίδα να βρω αυτό το "σπιρτόζικο" πνεύμα για το οποίο έχω ακούσει και, είναι δυνατόν, μια πιο ενδιαφέρουσα ιστορία.
Then I moved to his saddest (so far) book, A Child in Time and gave it another 5 star.
This review is about the first one, Cement and I really liked it still.Going back to your favorite author’s earlier works is like seeing Brad Pitt in a 1991 movie, Thelma and Louise.
Just this one point: Among McEwan's works, this one is dark, that's why I liked it.This deserves to stay in the 1001 Books You Must Read Before You Die. It will tell you want will happen if you and your partner die while your kids are still minors :)
The author’s debut novel – in fact more of a novella, I read this book due it being included in the 2019 Mookse Madness tournament.The plot of the book is discussed elsewhere and best summarised by Wikipediahttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Cem...My brief observations .....I found it difficult to relate the book to McEwen’s later writing which can, in my view, range from the brilliant (Atonement) to the far too frequently annoying (less any particular book than aspects of his writing).Probably the two most annoying aspects are entirely missing here: The insistence on reproducing his research and/or interests in extensive detail – contrast for example the interminable squash game in Saturday with the snooker game here, which does not even make sense with a break of reds and blacks scoring 49.
When I read the description for this book I expected to get a twisted, disturbing tale of incest.
What I actually got was a very well written (mildly uncomfortable) story about four siblings who are lost and without an adult to set boundaries.And really, instead of shocking me I was fascinated.
It's short, sharp and packs a punch.
I am however, highly annoyed with the ending.
THAT WAS NOT OKAY.
I like things to be wrapped up, I like to KNOW what happens next and not be left to come to my own conclusions.
Despite that, I still think this deserves 4.5 stars.
And but for the fact that it coincided with a landmark in my own physical growth, his death seemed insignificant compared with what followed."That landmark in physical growth is Jack's first ejaculation which he accomplishes while Da is busily cementing over the yard out of a sense of efficiency.
To Jack and Julie, the oldest, it seemed so obvious at the time to hide their mother's death to remain together.
Julie puts up the old baby crib in her room, assuming the role of mother to the degree she is able, which isn't much, to put it simply.Inevitably, Mum's death cannot be hidden.
Ugh, Ian's got me hooked on his expressive writing style. The kind that draws you into the book as if you were sitting next to the characters in their living room. Then, with your defenses down, he sucker punches you with the unspeakable!
It certainly has an air of unease about it, but I wouldn’t say actual menace; it is more sad and claustrophobic, and (for McEwan) only a little macabre.
The story unfolds through the typical self-centred view of a 15-year-old boy, barely aware of the changing family dynamics where his sisters have taken over.
The older Julie (for whom Jack has an obsession) has become the authoritarian parent while the younger Sue is more the passive partner and diarist, while 6-year-old Tom regresses to a baby.
It’s rather touching how Derek feels hurt and excluded from the dysfunctional and incestuous family, which seems to be the real reason he calls the authorities.
As usual she dropped trou in the movie, so I was not disappointed.Gainsbourg was about 21 when she made the film, but was portraying a 16 or 17-year-old adolescent or thereabouts, and looked the part; her character, Julie, seemed to be the focal point of the movie.In the book Julie is certainly a strong and powerful presence (aging from 15 to 17 as the story progresses) as the nominal head of a family of English orphaned adolescents -- Sue (12), Jack (14) and their very young brother, Tom. But Julie is not the protagonist, Jack is.
در ارتباط با سانسور ترجمه فارسی که باعث تغییر فاحش در ساختار داستان شده، پیش از این مطالبی شنیده بودم و در حین خواندن متن فارسی نیز متوجه بریده شدن قسمت هایی از متن شدم.
مخاطب فارسی زبان تنها در پایان کتاب،آن هم به صورت کاملا مبهم به وجود ارتباطی خاص میان جک و جولی پی می برد و این موضوع در ترجمه فارسی از کیفیت داستان و تاثیرگذاری آن تا حد زیادی کاسته و باعث تغییر پیرینگ داستان شده است
Sin palabras. Me gusto muchísimo. También tengo que decir que por momentos me ha parecido sumamente perturbador. Todo el relato transcurre en primera persona eso me gusta mucho. Es un relato que incomoda ya que toca temas tabues como la muerte y el incesto. Todo esto relatado por un adolescente que no tiene limites de mayores ni de sus pares. Impresionante.
It was a bit mixed but I've marked it high for reasons I'll try to explain.
Feels like this was written by someone trying very hard to shock, and it does this with varying effect.
Like it's a fantasy he came up with on a hot boring summer (and I did wonder where their telly was, though it is set in the 1970s..).
As a piece of 'literature' it hits all the marks of borderline nihilism and gleefully askew actions, and SPOILERalthough the sledgehammer didn't quite get used how i expected, it was probably the fastest way to round things off...
