https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/835496.Testament_of_Friendship
The woman who wrote this book, Vera Brittain, has scarcely fared better, despite outliving Holtby by more than thirty years.
In the short time she was here, however, she made her mark, authoring several well-received books, including the classic "South Riding," having a distinctive effect on the publication "Time and Tide" and, most importantly to those who loved her, being an amazing friend to countless people from all walks of life.
Her ability to bring people to life through the use of language is admirable, and her pain, still so fresh (Holtby had only been gone four years at the time of the book's release) is palpable.
I was wracked with sobs--not just for Winifred Holtby, but for her mother (who outlived her whole family), for Vera Brittain (who saw everybody she loved die in the war, then her father and Winifred), for her long-time love Bill who never could get his act together until it was too late, and for everybody who knew her.
I found it excruciating, especially since before reading this book, I had also read Testament of Youth (Brittain's memoir of the Great War and the years just before and just after), The Dark Tide (Brittain's first novel), Anderby Wold (Winifred's first novel) and South Riding (Winifred's posthumously-published masterpiece).
A touching biography of one of my favourite writers, Winifred Holtby, by her great friend Vera Brittain.
Brittain and Holtby met while studying at Somerville College, Oxford, and lived together for most of Winifred's short life, including after Vera married and had her two children.
Born and raised in Yorkshire, Winifred Holtby is now best known for her last novel, South Riding, but, apart from her other novels and short stories, was an accomplished journalist and poet.

Buddy read September 2016 w/ @bookmusings and @teresasimmons on IG
This is the second of Vera Brittain's autobiographical trilogy and gives a loving account of her deep friendship with the Yorkshire born author, journalist and political activist, Winifred Holtby, whom she met at Oxford. Both of these women were pioneers in their day but sadly, are now largely forgotten.
This is a marvellous book of its time, written in 1939 it is a biography of Yorkshire writer Winifred Holtby. I read Vera Brittain's other 'Testament' books whenI was a student in the 80s and had forgotten that I hadn't read this until it popped up as an Amazon suggested read.
Everyone should be lucky enough to have her best friend write her biography. This was a marvelous book.
really liked it, but so sad and so moving
Beautifully Poetic!
Took me a while but I got there eventually!
I found it useful as an illustration of the social background of the writer and Winifred Holtby, as well as of their travels, experiences and deep, enduring friendship during the post-war period.
So sad that Winifred Holtby died young, but what a lot she packed into it, nevertheless.
Making every day count is a lesson that I take away from the book.
She was an amazing, truly exceptional and gifted lady who - it seems to me - seldom took a step backwards.
Another one I’d had on the shelves for years - this one recommended by my mother (who died in 1981). Unique insight into he world of pacifist campaigning.
So I was fascinated to read about what turned out to be an astonishing woman who appeared to be ahead of her time and died at a point in her writing life when she would probably have gone on to produce astonishing literature.
Vera Brittain writes a very touching biography of her friend who she met at Oxford in 1919 as she was one of the first generation of women to study for a degree.
The book also poignantly touches on her personal losses including perhaps most movingly her lost love Bill a friend affected by the war and leading subsequently an almost lost life.
This is probably very much a book of its time as it felt so dated in a way that many older books don't. The language was far too flowery for me and I didn't feel that we got to know the real Winifred Holtby. It is obvious that her early death left a huge gap in Vera Brittain's life and this tribute to her may have helped in the grieving process but as a book it did not thrill me. I rarely leave a book before I have finished it but I have really had enough of this one.
a must read after Testament of Youth.... and although this was read in 1980, at 14 years, I look back and recall how it made changed my opinion of the female "friends" at school at the time and how I became more selective in the friends I sought and valued in the intervening years...... I am indebted to being introduced so early to the writings of Vera Brittain & Winifred Holtby and feminist writers that followed as a result.
