https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/854240.Heidi_Grows_Up
We loved first few chapters of this book and expected this to be a 5 star read.
The description of her visit home to the mountains and her friendship with Jamy and her relationship with Grandfather were wonderful, we enjoyed the way Heidi slipped back into the life she loved and we enjoyed discovering the goats personality quirks.
The storyline about Chel went on a bit and took up most of the second half of the book.
We did enjoy this but the first half of the book was much stronger than the second.
I had absolutely no idea that there was a second Heidi novel until a few weeks ago. While not as great as the first, I still really enjoyed reading this one, in which an older Heidi faces aloof classmates who consider her a backwoods hillbilly, and how she proves that she has a place in her new school.
The day my twins started sleeping in separate rooms felt sad.
Likewise, the day I had to start reading aloud to them separately felt sad as well.
But it's natural of course that their interests steer different directions.
While Austin listened to the complete book of "Heidi", he wasn't going to sit through "Heidi Grows Up"!
Ashlyn couldn't wait...although on many a night, we would find Austin nonchalantly making his way to Ashlyn's room to listen.
Without the translation, the words seem to flow a bit more naturally.
That safe-snuggly-picturing-a-new-world-built-by-words, feeling, never changes.
A sweet and enjoyable read!It was a nice follow up and I enjoyed seeing another scene of Heidi's youth and then particularly when she's a young woman, teaching in her dear little village of Dorfli.
I also would have liked to see a clearer transition from friendship to romance spring up between Heidi and Peter.
Hence the three stars instead of four.Ages: 6+Cleanliness: Girls tease Heidi for having strong, country cheese.
"Thank heaven for that!" and "Heaven forbid!" are exclaimed.
A boy and girl hug.
"Pooh" is exclaimed.
A young man and woman hold hands while hiking; they later hug and kiss.
Read years ago. Sorry I didn't keep the book...loved it.
Heidi büyüdü, okula gitti hatta okulunu bitirdi ve öğretmen bile oldu :)Peter ile sonsuza dek mutlu yaşayacaklar gibi görünüyor :)
(More or less.) Besides, Heidi had closed with the chapter entitled "Parting to Meet Again," or as it's called in the Aladdin Classics copy I read, "Goodbye for the Present!" It's only natural that a goodbye-for-the-present should eventually have to be followed by some sort of a hello-again.Heidi Grows Up is a pleasant "Hello, again!" And while it's likely that Spyri would've written it differently had she decided to continue the story in her own words before she passed, Tritten has done a good job of capturing the spirit of Heidi in his sequel.I'm glad another Goodreads member recommended this book to me.
I did not own the book Heidi when I was young. I owned this instead - Heidi Grows Up. Not as good. I used to pick it up, wish it was Heidi, but start trying to read it anyway. If I had owned Heidi, I might have fonder memories of this book, but I didn't own Heidi so I do not.
Heidi Grows Up is a sequel to the classic Heidi, though written by a different author.
I think that since the author, Charles Tritten, was a translator of the original Heidi, that did have a good handle on the characters that he adopted.
Young Heidi must go off to school to continue her education, because the new schoolmaster in Dorfli is quite unreasonable.
She leaves her grandfather and the good doctor during the year, coming home to visit on her school breaks.
Follow Heidi on her journey towards adulthood, and see what good she does for all those who surround her, in this well deserved sequel to Heidi.
Picks up a few years after Heidi, and written by the author's translator after her death.
Heidi goes to school, Heidi makes a new friend, who comes to stay with her in the Alps over the school vacation, Heidi goes back to school, but we don't see any more of her time there, because the next thing we know she's home again, instead of going to study the violin in Paris, and has applied to teach in the village school, and then she's waiting to find out if she gets the job, and then in the very next paragraph it's her first day, but she doesn't have any pupils because the last teacher scared them so much.
It's a commendable effort at picking up someone else's original story, but it is very gappy.
I will never reread this because I would probably hate it, but GOD did I love this story when I was a kid. I read it before I read the first Heidi book, and I think that ruined my enjoyment of the first. I adore this book, even though it's basically fanfiction, and I love finding out what happened to all the characters I loved the first time round. I laughed, I cried, I (view spoiler)[ cheered when Peter and Heidi finally get married. (hide spoiler)] It's not great writing, but I don't even care.
Tritten does a great job of capturing the spirit of this spirited character, and those of her family and friends.
Good book for an adaption of classic character. Written by the author's translator. Adorable story.
I had completely forgotten that the sequelae to Heidi were written by someone other than Johanna Spyri.
I approached a re-read with caution and rediscovered that Charles Tritten was Spyri's translator and a personal friend and that alone made it more of a sequel and less of a cashing in on a famous book kind of thing.
It reads pretty faithfully to the original - though Peter seems to have grown a few brain cells in the interval - and I take it kindly that Tritten says he wrote to two books because children were asking for the story and Spyri herself would never have refused any child's request, especially after her only son died.
To αγαπημένο μου από τα παιδικά βιβλία!
Το πρωτοδιάβασα στην τρίτη δημοτικού, όταν η δασκάλα μεταξύ άλλων μας έδωσε ένα σημείωμα με βιβλία παιδικά για το καλοκαίρι για να εξασκηθούμε στην ανάγνωση αλλά και να καλλιεργήσουμε την φαντασία μας παράλληλα!
Μεχρι πέρσυ δεν ήξερα πως υπήρχαν και συνέχειες της χαιντι από την άγκυρα, είχαν εκδοθεί στα μέσα του 80' η χάιντι -μαμά και η χάιντι-γιαγιά, μακάρι να τα βρισκα ,δυσκολο φυσικά...
Η χαιντι ενα αγαπημένο πλάσμα που προσπαθεί να χαρεί με τις απλές χαρές της ζωής και είναι τελείως απροσποίητη!
Ακόμα και όταν συναντά δύσκολους και σνομπ ανθρώπους δεν το βάζει κάτω!
This was another of my mother's great ability to buy the second book in a series.
I liked this one a lot though and I kept looking for the orifinal Heidi.
When I finally read Heidi it was a bit of a let down.
Not from any problem wirth the book itsweld.
As an adult though I see the same medicine doing amazing healing as in the Secret Garden (although there is less British exceptionalism in Heidi...
Read both and enjoy.
I didn't know about the continued series so 'all have to fit them in so I can lwearn moerw of Heidi.
Heidi Grows Up is a beautiful sequel to Heidi. This was the first book that I was emotionally connected to, and that was evident when I cried at the ending.Before it, books were just things to pass the time for me. Some made me happy, and that was it. But I had never before experienced the beauty of books and a felt a part of the story. Even now that I am older, I am still in love with this book.
A sequel to Heidi. Not written by Johanna Spyri--she didn't write any more books about Heidi--but written in a voice and style similar to Heidi. Heidi goes to a boarding school, makes friends, studies the violin, comes back to the Alps with a school friend, teaches in the village school, and marries Peter. There is a section in the middle of the book that is too much sweetness and light, but the end of the book is satisfying.
I had no idea that there was a sequel to Heidi before yesterday!I quite enjoyed the book, but it did have a different feel to it than the original. Of course, that is probably because it wasn't actually written by Johanna Spyri - but all in all a good book with wonderful imagery. So keen to read more about Heidi gah this is a good day
I really enjoyed Heidi but this sequel was too obviously not written by the same author. The characters didn't ring true, instead coming across as caricatures of themselves, with a repetition of devices of character development and plot from the first novel. However, it was pleasant enough as classic novels go.
Charles Tritten, who was Frau Spyri's English translator, does an admirable job of continuing the tale and trying to answer the questions left at the end of "Heidi". This book and its sequel "Heidi's Children" really deserve to come back into print so that everyone can see how the loose ends are tied up.
This book is total wish fulfillment - Clara grows up to be a stately young lady, Heidi goes to school, but comes back to teach the village school, and ultimately marry Peter. We're introduced to a few new characters, but this book is mainly about Heidi and Peter.
As a child, I loved this book far more than the the classic first book. I read it again and again. It was sweet and pure and captured my imagination. I wanted to be Heidi teaching the children of Dorfli with my best friend Peter sharing in my adventures.
It was cute and interesting book but i like the first one more and i thought it was cool that she was was all grown up. most of the characters from the last book are still in this book including peter to goat hereder
Very sweet and innocent story, easy to read!!!!
Nice to continue Heidi's story.
Though not as good as Hiedi, I enjoyed reading it!
back in time, lovely childhood memories!
Even though this is not by the original author of Heidi it stays true to the story line. Overall, I felt that Heidi grew up the way I imagined her to and I was not disappointed in the outcome.
"It's a WONDERFUL book because in the end, she and Peter get married. REALLY!!!!!" Written when I was seven years old. :)
