https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4268157-perfect-chemistry
If I had to describe it I’d say it’s like Pretty in Pink meets West Side Story.
I didn’t think there was any way that she could spin a character that’s a gang member to be likeable, a hero even.
And Brittany, her character was even more complex that I think the novel even revealed.
Had the story not been told that way, I don’t think I would have enjoyed it as much.
I think that is what won Alex over for me, because I got to see how he struggled with the life that he didn’t want.
★★★★★! Perfect Chemistry (stand-alone book 1). High school it-girl & rebel bad boy’s take on star-crossed lovers!   “He touched me as if I were made of glass. He kissed me as if he’d savor it for the rest of his life.”   Perfect Chemistry (stand-alone book 1) is a modern take on star-crossed lovers. The rebel bad-boy from the wrong side of town, Alejandro Fuentes, Alex and the perfect good-girl princess with the world-at-her-feet, Brittany Ellis, Brit forced to be chemistry lab partners for
Perfect Chemistry (stand-alone book 1) is a modern take on star-crossed lovers.
The rebel bad-boy from the wrong side of town, Alejandro Fuentes, Alex and the perfect good-girl princess with the world-at-her-feet, Brittany Ellis, Brit forced to be chemistry lab partners for the year.
The rebel is smart and caring and if he cannot get of the gang, at least his brothers stand a chance at a better life.
Seven words to describe  Alejandro Fuentes, Alex: Smart, caring, noble, reliable, broken, hard-headed and secretive.
Seven words to describe Brittany Ellis, Brit: Loyal, shallow, caring, conflicted, desperate, lonely and secretive.
Yes, it was insanely cliche, unrealistic, and would never happen to two teenagers in real life.
But I can't say for all teenagers.
I was Alex, hating her for being fake and perfect and untouchable.
Then I slowly began to feel her pain.
I began to know her and understand what she does and why she does it.
I loved how the romance slowly developed throughout the book.
You guys just had to bump into each other everywhere." It didn't annoy me for some odd reason.Overall, I loved this book because of how it made me feel about so many things.
So if you're a person who doesn't dislike super cheesy writing and a million clichés, this book will probably be a fun read for you and you shouldn't let my bad review keep you from reading it.
The whole Latino Blood gang stuff and the rich people factor just made this book more ridiculous because that way they also added the "poor guy falls for rich girl" and the "oh no my parents will dissaprove"-drama.
As soon as it was mentioned, I knew this book would not be one I'd end up liking.The writing was also completely cheesy.
I couldn't help but feel immersed in their world and to care about what happened to them.I loved Alex's friends, Paco and Isa, and Brittany's sister, Shelly.The scene near the end left me in tears, and there’s a violent scene in here that was very difficult for me to read because it brought back the pain of a violence that touched my own family’s lives.
I want to know what it feels like to have her look at me as if I’m her knight in shinning armor"~*~*~*"Brittany: "I'm losing control." Alex: “Mamacita, I've already lost it." ~*~*~*"I can't help but smile as I swipe a lone tear trailing down my cheek.
This was one of my favorite books as a teenager. Ok that's a lie. The first time I read Perfect Chemistry I was past legal age. I've reread it, many times. You can judge me all you want. A girl can't live on Tolkien alone. Sometimes I just need a dose of girly romance novels. This series is so good. I want to break into a happy dance.
I read this a while ago and I always meant to review but never ended up getting around to it until now. I have a few things I want to say, the first that it wasn't entirely unenjoyable, the low rating reflects several things but I want to point out that I understand why so many people love this book and I think it would be better for the majority to read it themselves and make their own minds up - I know that I am again in the minority.It's quite a nice Romeo and Juliet type of forbidden romanc
I have a few things I want to say, the first that it wasn't entirely unenjoyable, the low rating reflects several things but I want to point out that I understand why so many people love this book and I think it would be better for the majority to read it themselves and make their own minds up - I know that I am again in the minority.It's quite a nice Romeo and Juliet type of forbidden romance.
I also want to thank Ms. Simone Elkeles for putting fingers to keyboard and bringing this incredible story of the love between Alex and Brittany to life.Life is cruel and harsh, and we all wear armor to protect ourselves against the pain of loss and the hardships we face.
I could go on and on about how wonderful Perfect Chemistry is, but I will end by saying, if you read one young adult book, please put this on the list to consider.
While I appreciate Simone Elkeles attempt to write a story with a lovely "moral" I can't help but point out that there aren't any in this book.
I don't support the explicit language and although I know by my daily junior-high life that teens actually talk like this, and 10 times worse, why encourage cursing?
And the fact that Brittany and Alex had sex but ended up falling in love, getting happily married, and had a cute little kid while curing Alzheimer’s to boot is not realistic at all.
Only a small percentage of teens actually end up staying together after high school and on to college much less get betrothed.
“Alex probably brings his dates sharp knives as gifts, in case she’ll need one when she’s out on a date with him.” Initial Final Page Thoughts.Well considering I thought I was going to read about two pages of this book before giving up, I’m surprised how much I enjoyed this one. Maybe I am a girl after all. Gosh. High Points.Brittany. Alex. PacoPacoPaco. Pom squad. Garages. Motorcycles. Science projects. Beaches. Leather jackets. Bandanas. Chichis. The phrase “ripped bod”. Muffins. Hand warmers
It’s just that we have absolutely nothing in common except we occasionally use muffin analogies to describe the state of our life.But you were lovely and sweet and caring and a bit of a saucy minx when you wanted to be.Car garages, eh?
I liked Alex and Brittany together, I thought they made a great couple… but I couldn’t help but wish they had had more ‘Urgh, I hate you’ moments before they decided that they were going to be soul mates.I don’t know… but I loved their banter and their…wait for it...
People who don’t mind a book about chemistry that isn’t actually about chemistry.
How bout this formula below?What happens if you add this hot Latino hunk plus this blonde cheerleader[image error]?*wrong buzzer sound*No class, we do not get perfect chemistry.We get this movie instead:[image error]*hands shoot up in the air*Okay I am not fit to be a teacher since I'm talking nonsense here.But really, what is perfect chemistry?I'm not a master of the subject, but after reading this, I could say that perfect chemistry isn't perfect at all.
Perfect chemistry isn't shared by two people who are too alike that they never ever have a spat.
Ha, I love Mrs P.I read this book for the first time in 2012 and I loved the pants off of it. I was worried that, four years later, I wouldn't love it as much. That the clichés would bother me. But I'm happy to say that I still really enjoyed the story, even though I did find a few faults with it this time around. Having said that, I'm still happily aboard the 'I love Alex Fuentes' train.
I adore this book.This is not a genre I read often.
The chemistry (pun intended) between them was intense, and made me melt into a big happy puddle of goo.So to summarize: Story: A.
They both acted like real, relatable teenagers, each with their own set of problems that they were dealing with in their own way.
No flowery language or stunning descriptions here, but the writing is real and down-to-earth, yet executed in such a way that you really feel what the characters are going through.
So, watch the trailer, and then go out and get this book.
THIS BOOK WAS SO CUTE. It wasn't just a mushy teen romance book but also dealt with more serious issues. The character development was flawless and I'm so happy I read this book!
To say that she has become an automatic never-buy-or-read-even-if-she-were-the-last-book-on-earth is an understatement.I never set out to just hate a book sight unseen and even though I had the feeling Perfect Chemistry was going to be a perfect disaster, I gave it a chance because some of my Goodreads friends recommended it since they know I love interracial romance.
Okay, try Mexican teenage boy who's poor and is in a gang meets pretty, White and rich teenage girl and they fall in love much to the consternation of the people around them.
The first thing I thought while reading about Alex was, why did he have to be in a gang?
A fantastic contemporary romance!
I loved the relationship between Brittany and Alex, but I especially loved that the story wasn't JUST about their romance--they each had their own conflicts and struggles in life.
I thought they were both really well-developed characters, and I couldn't help but root for them to get together.
What really won me over, though, was the humor and the emotional impact of this book.
Any book that can make me laugh out loud then bring me close to tears is a winner to me!
Definitely looking forward to continuing this series and reading about Alex's brothers' stories!
Re-read: 24.09.15  “You are the one girl that made me risk eveything for a future worth having.”    “We're actors in our lives, pretendin' to be who we want people to think we are.”   Story;  Brittany is picture perfect. She has everything. She's beautiful, she's smart, she is dating the popular guy at school. Everyone want to be her and be with her. Her life is perfect. Brittany is the white chick from the rich side of town. Alex is the bad boy. He's poor. He is in a gang. He is dangerous. He's
Alex gets to see through Brittany's mask, sees the real Brittany without the attitude, without the facade.
You're bloody fantastic, sexy, hot, loving and, and, PERFECT!
Jesus, I cannot believe I waited so long before I re-read it :O We all need a little Alex and Brittany in our lives, just sayin' and I shouldn't have gone so long with out them...
Though I haven't continued with this series, mainly because I really only want Alex, I have still read her other book 
I love them ♥ Oh and I want more Alex btw...
1.5 stars????these are the notes i took while reading:• the mOSt stereotypical characters (every mexican character=unstable homes, poor families, in or related to someone in a gang, guns) • i’m all for including a foreign language in your book, but sentences like “sí everything’s bien” or throwing in chichis everytime alex is looking at brittany’s chest is not the most effective way in my opinion• misuse of mental illness (anxiety does not equal uptight, depressed does not equal upset)• why is a
it took her quite a while, but still•	it’s brittany’s mission to change alex so that people will one day say their a perfect couple *rolls eyes*•	their entire relationship begins bc alex bets that he can have sex with brittany and film it for his friends•	over halfway through the book when brittany and he are dating he is still thinking about his idiotic bet as endgame• hector’s betrayal was an obvious plot twist• “i can either take advantage of her and win the bet, which would be a slam dunk in her condition, or…”(i don’t cae if you’re high as a kite any guy who even considers raping a drunk girl (and filming it for his stupid bet) gets a strong -200/10 from me)
In time, they fall for each other, and find out that they are each hiding some dark and painful secrets.Elkeles breathes new life into an old tale, and the writing is done in multiple POV, showing both Alex and Brittany's point of view, keeping Perfect Chemistry evenly paced.
What I loved about the most is that this book could make you feel good while reading, but at the same time it would make you feel sad about the life Alex is trying to get out of, and feel sorry for Brittany's sister.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/This popped up on the “recommended you to” screen when I logged in to my library’s website. It threw me off a bit because I’ve been requesting “book clubbier” books lately so I had to check it out. And what did I find???????? A story about a girl from the right side of the tracks and a boy from the wrong side of the tracks and how they fall in luuuuuuurrrrrrrrv. Well, that trope just makes me . . . .  Allow me to introduce our main cha
A story about a girl from the right side of the tracks and a boy from the wrong side of the tracks and how they fall in luuuuuuurrrrrrrrv.
Brittany is like Sandy .
I’m giving this one 3.5, but rounding down because (1) the bet with friends about getting in Brittany’s pants storyline was absolutely unnecessary and cheapened things just so there could be some manufactured drama and (2) if you use Chicago as a setting you need to know North Side and South Side are like opposite ends of the universe so the characters wouldn’t ever meet at school (picky, I know, but I’m allowed since it’s my review space).
Unfortunately, "Perfect Chemistry" is no exception.There is really nothing wrong with this book except for its utter unoriginality.
This is a story that we all have read before - a rich, popular and beautiful cheerleader and dangerous (but hot) gang member are thrown in together by fate, or, more specifically, a chemistry lab seating chart (I am coming to a conclusion that this is how 99% of high school couples find each other, based on YA literature I've read).
The book is just OK, a decent read which I suspect fans of YA romance will enjoy much more than I did.
Perfect Chemistry, captivated my mind from beginning to end.The characters Alex Fuentes and Brittany Ellis both had issues they had to deal with that makes the plot of the story so surreal.Alex is a gang member,with absolutely no intentions on going to college and doing anything meaningful with his life, that's the story of what people on the south side part of town believe.Brittany is the rich girl trying to keep up with the little Ms.Perfect facade.Appearances and reputation means everything for people on the north side of town.
I thought others would agree with me but after reading a handful of reviews claiming this book is a ‘must read,’ I realized some people in this world have no compunction in telling ridiculous falsehoods.This book was full of badly written clichés and the ‘playful banter’ between the characters seemed forced and awkward.
I felt embarrassed for the character.
It was like the author was trying too hard to connect the character to a stereotype.
[Insert Sarcasm]I’ve never actually rated a book before, so am I supposed to use stars?
Well, what’s the opposite of a star?
Well this book gets 2 black holes.
Soooo corny!
Jeez, reading has made me soft...I remember when I saw this book in the book store months ago, my friend told me not to get it because she said she could tell it would be bad.
I questioningly looked at her and asked her why - because she said she had never read the book - and she tells me her Book Cover Theory.
That you can tell whether a book will be good or bad by the cover it has.
So even though I thought what she was saying was dumb, I didn't buy the book, bumped
Thankfully, if another friend of mine hadn't told me to get this book then I would have seriously lost out.Thank God I came to my senses and I now know better than to judge books by their covers because hey, there are plenty of amazing books out there with terrible covers and there are some gorgeous covers with bad writing.
And the fact that he let himself be with Brittany because he knew he wanted her was sexy!Paco...oh dear sweet Paco, my love, he was the perfect best friend.
(hide spoiler)]Dear Perfect Chemistry, It was fun while it lasted.
I’ve been known to make a song, dance and general fool out of myself over my love for contemporary YA novels – but I can’t muster that kind of enthusiasm for you, Perfect Chemistry.
Also, it’s probably just better that we just don’t speak about the epilogue.
It was fun while it lasted, but it’s over.
Yours honestly,Death-Before-Epilogues-Reynje* * * * *Pre-Review: I don't think I was supposed to laugh as much as I did while I read this.
"You were the one girl who made me risk everything for a future worth havin'." I LOVED Perfect Chemistry! Such a great story! It was really well written and the characters were so lovable and wonderful!Brittany and Alejandro (Alex) both live in Fairfield Illinois and are both starting their senior year at Fairfield High. Brittany has the perfect life. She lives in the perfect house with both parents and her sister. She has the perfect blonde hair and blue eyes, wears designer clothes, and is he
I LOVED Perfect Chemistry!
It was really well written and the characters were so lovable and wonderful!Brittany and Alejandro (Alex) both live in Fairfield Illinois and are both starting their senior year at Fairfield High.
Brittany has the perfect life.
She lives in the perfect house with both parents and her sister.
With a mother who criticizes everything, an absent father, a boyfriend pressuring her and a sister with cerebral palsy who Britt helps take care of, things aren't as perfect for her as they seem.
He has been the man of the house since his father was murdered when Alex was 6.
Alex- I freaking loved him!
This book was amazing. If it doesn't melt your heart, then my guess is that you don't have one. This is a gritty, intense love story that will leave you swooning the entire time you read it. I stayed up until 5 am to finish it because I couldn't sleep until I found out how it ended. Romeo + Juliet have NOTHING on Alejandro + Brittney.
It has convenient lab-partner arrangements to facilitate plot development, a pretty cheerleader and a hot gangbanger, a bet involving getting the gangbanger into the cheerleader's pants and a messed-up family life for the star-crossed couple.But despite the nightmares the above disclosures may conjure up, I would suggest you still give Perfect Chemistry a chance.
In the meantime, Brittany's 'perfect' boyfriend is pushing for sex, and refusing to communicate; as she grows further away from Colin, she gets closer to Alex.
I really liked the fact that I could get Alex's perspective on the developing romance as well as Brittany's.
My heart is so full right now <3I've just finished Perfect Chemistry by Simone Elkeles and I simply don't have the right words to express my feelings towards this beautiful story."Two different worlds. One true love."Ok, now I want to cry :, (Omg I just fucking loved it!! Every single fucking thing about this masterpiece.The story just flowed and the writing was fucking flawless!I laughed, I cried, I swooned, I wanted to kick Brits mum in the muff gate - seriously I wouldn't piss on that wom
Every single fucking thing about this masterpiece.The story just flowed and the writing was fucking flawless!I laughed, I cried, I swooned, I wanted to kick Brits mum in the muff gate - seriously I wouldn't piss on that woman if she was on fire!Alex + Brittany <3Two completely different souls from different worlds brought together for a chemistry project and with that came banter and so much sexual tension but best of all; LOVE <3I adored the charaters.
The way Alex protected his family made me love him even more.I can't believe it took me this long to pick this book up as I now can't imagine my life without it.A love story I will never forget <3
What starts out as a bet between Alex and one of his friends, involving Brittany turns into undeniable love.
These two discover so much about each other and themselves in the process.I found the characters to be very likable, not only Alex and Brittany, but their best friends Paco (love Paco, sniff, sniff) and Sierra as well.
Paco provides some comic relief at times, and Sierra is wise beyond her years, and proves to be the best friend Brittany needs her to be!!And Alex Fuentes….*sigh*… They didn’t make them like that when I was in High School!!!
