https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35425827-archenemies
Stay tuned for my spoiler-filled video review!CW: violence, oppressionRenegades was already a fantastically constructed world, but Archenemies breaks the boundaries for what we know of Gatlon City.
Not only does this story have a wicked plot, but there’s a spectacular cast of characters holding it up.When comparing Renegades and Archenemies, I do feel I prefer Renegades, but only slightly.
As a plot-based reader, I prefer Renegades because it is more action-packed, but I do find myself also drawn to Archenemies for it’s strong and ever-developing political arc.
Archenemies is a satisfying sequel that will leave you wanting more and more.Renegades is amazing.
I am trying so hard to love this series but it just isn't working.After not enjoying  Cinder, I went on to love the rest of the Lunar Chronicles, so I was really hoping I could do that with this series. I was hoping that Renegades was just a shaky start to something much better. And, for a while, I convinced myself I liked this one more than the first. But aside from a few good bits, I think I'll just have to admit these books are not for me.Let's break it down. » The characters. Honestly, I fin
In fact, the whole "I hate the Renegades and must have revenge" angle seems like a poor cover for what is evidently nothing but a romance.
Which, obviously, should not be my reaction to the central romance.I also think I threw up in my mouth a little at the scene where Adrian literally makes Nova's dreams come true.
How many times will I have to read Nova's mantra about how the Renegades are just so terrible because they didn’t save her family?
I think it's all just very simplistic - from the characters' motivations to the standard YA romance.
That is what happened here.Let’s go one by one.THE CHARACTERSIn my Renegades review, I basically listed off a bunch of characters and declared that I didn’t like any of them per se, but also didn’t dislike any of them, and if a very specific set of events occurred in Archenemies I could, perhaps, come away with an appreciation for one or two.Guess what didn’t happen.(The opposite happened.)The characters in this book were B A D.
Here was my ranking of ability-to-potentially-like-any-given-character, from “one cool fight scene and some banter” away to “this character would have to spend 500 pages being unadulteratedly amusing for me to even give half a sh*t, but theoretically anything’s possible.”- Nova- Oscar- Ruby- Honey- AdrianThis is some high potential for me!!
i feel like i could copy and paste my review for ‘renegades’ and everything would apply to this sequel.
again, this series is the only story i have read where the plot centres around crime fighting superheroes.
like actual heroes vs.
but once you get past that, the story is actually quite decent.
it often feels like theres not enough content to stretch across three books.
and once more, the book ends on a cliff hanger.
the cliff hanger from the first book is not really a focal point in the sequel, which i thought it would be.
I can't keep up on my damn preorders!!I didn't like it as much as the first book but it was still up there. Cover is good. Narrators were good listening at 2x speed. I think when the next one comes out, I need to read them back to back and see how it goes 🤔😉Happy Reading! Mel 🖤🐶🐺🐾
this book is almost 600 pages and I read it in a day so if that tells you anything
The point is that this book felt like a YA retelling of that movie rather than being an original.🌟 I don’t have any problems with Marissa’s writing style and I probably shouldn’t after 8 books.
I can’t stop thinking of some characters as characters in the X-Men movie which is sad.🌟 Summary: I originally read this because it was supposed to be a duology and it is now a trilogy.
I ended up being generous and gave it 3 out of 5 stars.🌟 Prescription: If you like superheroes but hasn’t watched/ read books like that then this may be for you.
if this isn’t better than the mess that was Renegades, I’m rioting. at least the cover is cool
GUYS THE COVER THE COVER THE COVER!!!!It looks so awesome, I really hope that they go well together side by side!!!!!ALSO, IT'S GONNA BE A TRILOGY!!!!
ALL THE THINGS THAT I EVER DREAMED FOR IN MY LIFE ARE COMING TRUE AT ONCE!
I'M SO EXCITED WE HAVE EXTRA CONTENT AND MORE OF THESE CHARACTERS AND I JUST CAN'T WAIT!!!I'm actually so keen for this book, Marissa Meyer is my favourite author ever from the dawn of time, and I cannot wait for the next installment, and then I'll have to wait for THE ONE AFTER THAT and I'll probably die in the mean time, but that's okay.
I liked this one but sadly not as much as Renegades...Am I the only one?
Nevertheless, I would like to point out that the series still poses a range of moral issues which I believe will prove very interesting for the younger audience that it targets.
I say specifically 'younger audience' because, while their interest is certainly wider, their treatment still is not complex enough as to make them stimulating for somewhat more mature readers.
So if you are looking for a book to give to your kids, choose Renegades—or Marissa Meyer in general.
I love it.
To be honest I flew through this book so fast that I won't have a lot to say about it because it's a blur.
But I LOVED the tension of will-they-or-won't-they find out about the secret identities.
I love this friend group.
I love how the book explores heroes who have evil motives and villains that have good ones.
My feels are all over the place!Audiobook review: Narrated by Rebecca Soler and Dan Bittner.
Soler is my fave so it's always a joy to listen to anything she does.
Both narrators do great, so I'd recommend this format.
I don’t feel like writing a long review honestly, but just know that this book has destroyed me and I’m not okay. Take me out of the oven and stick a fork in me because    I. Am. Done.  Thank you, Marissa Meyer, for signing my death certificate. Maybe I’ll come back as Phobia and be your worst fear. Though, even that wouldn’t be enough in my eyes after that heart breaking ending you delivered to us. Do I seriously have to wait a year for the third and final book? I think I just died a little mor
I don’t feel like writing a long review honestly, but just know that this book has destroyed me and I’m not okay.
Take me out of the oven and stick a fork in me because    I.
Thank you, Marissa Meyer, for signing my death certificate.
Though, even that wouldn’t be enough in my eyes after that heart breaking ending you delivered to us.
Do I seriously have to wait a year for the third and final book?
I’m ending this without my heart and soul in tact.
From now on, I’m going to be known as soulless Cassie.
⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐Wow that was an intense last few chapters. This was a tremendous sequel and I cannot wait for the next book! I need it now because I have to see how this Sentinel and Nightmare collision course ends. The characters we learned about in book one take on way more feats and develop in even more detail with a plot that is fast-paced and just overall awesome! I seriously enjoyed this sequel more than I expected, which should not have been the case since the first hit me the same way. My quick and
This was a tremendous sequel and I cannot wait for the next book!
The characters we learned about in book one take on way more feats and develop in even more detail with a plot that is fast-paced and just overall awesome!
I seriously enjoyed this sequel more than I expected, which should not have been the case since the first hit me the same way.
My quick and simple overall: I hate to say this because I loved the Lunar Chronicles by Marissa Meyer, but I actually like this series even better!
I highly recommend this series for fantasy and sci-fi fans!
People are greedy and cruel, and...for some, having superpowers just makes them even more greedy and cruel.This series is a testament to Marissa Meyer's growth as an author.
Nova Artino, hoping to retrieve Ace Anarchy's helmet, continues to be a double agent among the unsuspecting Renegades.
Gleaning from the quote above, Nova insisted that the Renegades had started to abuse their power over prodigies and ordinary citizens.
By using Agent N on "criminals" without due process, they were basically acting like fascists.Ironically, the "evil" Anarchists were the targets of such oppression.
Indeed, Nova had valid reasons for infiltrating the Renegades' HQ, but she was living a lie (just like Adrian).
So if this book’s title is not Anarchists I’ll actually throw a tantrum like a 2 year old.EDIT: I HATE MY LIFEEDIT: I may forgive Meyer for the title because HOLY CRAP I LOVE THE COVERAnother EDIT: turns out it’s gonna be a trilogy so I’m hoping for a certain title for the third book ehm
HOLY SHITi have been so busy with work so it has literally taken me forever to read this but ..... HOLY SHIT.
I HAVENT EVEN READ THE FIRST BOOK YET BUT I WILL NOW BECAUSE LOOK AT THAT COVER 😍😍😍
Since this book comes out in less than two weeks and will inevitably be reviewed by lots of amazing popular reviewers (whose reviews I can't wait to read!) and I will be pushed down, I'd like to take a moment to appreciate how I was once the 8th most liked review lolll. also ALSDKFJAOIESKLJF OAWIEKJFSD OWJIOELKDSJF OWIJSDKF IT COMES OUT IN LESS THAN TWO WEEKS-----5/18/18THE COVER IS ARTAND ITS A TRILOGY OMGOMGOMGOMG
(18/5/18)I ACTUALLY SCREAMED. THAT COVER IS GLORIOUS.• • •(3/1/18) Omg... IT HAS A TITLE!Eh, not a fan of it. But I'm still excited.Meyer, do me a favor and write faster.
T H I S~  UPDATE: TOMORROW WE GET A COVER THIS IS NOT A DRILL  ~WOWOWOWOWOWOW SYNOPSIS~I need this now
I need his chibi portrait/figurine in my life.-----------------------------------------------Way better than previous book, but how dare you to finish it in such a moment.
Now I need to wait a year or more to find out what will happen with Max. That's so cruel.Overall, I liked this book a lot.
I just wish that my poor baby Sketch would be less into Nova.
They are so cute and they deserve each other.Max?
And if something bad is going to happen to him I will burn.
book.That said.
I really enjoyed this book (save for ending).
Now, please, gimme the last book of this trilogy.
WHAT THE HECK THAT COVER IS FLIPPING  GORGEOUS ______________________________ WE HAVE A TITLE!!! Archenemies...Adrian and Nova better end up together or I'm retiring to a hole. Where no one will ever find me...
I need the sequel.NOW.i love this series so much and although this one felt very anticlimactic compared to the first one, i wasn't bothered much by that.I love Nova, Adrian and the whole superheroes vibe.
Still hard-core fangirling over this cover. Just look at how stunning it is!?  Can November 6 arrive sooner please?
I'M SCREAMING SEND HELP AJAVAIBAOSBDJ
Archenemies is filled with truth and secrets, danger, action, new powers, shocking discoveries and decisions.Nova continues to be a member of both the Renegades and Anarchists, gaining the trust of the Renegades and learning their weakness in order to bring them down.
Decisions are made, lies continue to build and paths are chosen as Nova faces more challenges for the future she wants.Adrian continues to bring justice to Gatlon City while keeping his secret as the Sentinel from those around him.
This leads to conflicts between them regarding to where they stand about the Renegades, the Anarchists and society but also their own beliefs.Nova is more determined to bring down the Renegades than she was in the first book.
“That’s human nature, isn’t it? People want to put someone on a pedestal. Maybe it gives them something to dream about.”I’M STILL SCREAMING AFTER THAT ENDING OMG🙉IS IT NOVEMBER 2019 ALREADY? *cries*4.5/5★★★★★
I am crying. I need the sequel. I didn’t realise the end was the end. It’s now definitely one of my top 3 series in the whole world. I need the sequel. Give me the sequel. PLEASE.
this cover is freaking beautiful
