https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/300848.In_Defense_Of_Women
كتاب رائع
this book is hilarious! a breakdown of the methods women use to exploit the stupidity of men for their own gain. while it constantly credits women with being more intelligent, resourceful, clear-headed and practical than men, it also drives home the point that in general men don't benefit from feminine influence, instead they have their energy depleted and their potential squandered. harsh, offensive to both sexes, and funny as hell.
I should have kept my mouth shut until I read Mencken.
That quality will surely attach to it if ever it grows quite unnecessary; whatever is unnecessary is always respectable, for example, religion, fashionable clothing, and a knowledge of Latin grammar."He's just so often acute in his observations.
You get this precise and cogent summation of a hypocrite, for example: "First he sees danger, then he sees difficulty, then he sees wrong."They should assign Mencken as vocabulary blasters to students preparing to assail the SAT.
(Four of these six are being flagged by goodreads spellchecker, by the way.)Lastly, I want to point out that I read the 1922 edition, because I boast huge stones.
“Women are despicable; but women are better than men; therefore, men are very despicable.” (introduction, x) Mencken is best known for clever quotations about people’s general ignorance, cultural failures and radical political solutions.
(24) His take on marriage, however, is totally unique: namely, that it is a total sham perpetrated by women for economic means, the greatest trick being that men are convinced this is what they want.
Consider the conversations spouses have with other people: “A man, speaking of his wife to other men, always praises her extravagantly… But when two women talk of their husbands it is mainly atrocities that they describe.” (129) Where one must disagree with Mencken is in his depiction of passion.
Either way, this book is a witty and caustic romp around life between the sexes."Well, very few women believe in broken hearts, and the cause is not far to seek: practically every woman above the age of twenty-five has a broken heart.
Thus walking the world with broken hearts, women know that the injury is not serious.""For the thing that chiefly delights a man, when some woman has gone through the solemn buffoonery of yielding to his great love, is the sharp and flattering contrast between her reserve in the presence of other men and her enchanting complaisance in the presence of himself.
In those things which Mencken finds tiresome (business and politics), he believes women can do no worse than men, but should not try as this will only lower them to the status of men, not raise those functions to a status worthy of women.Mencken is a terrific (if flowery) writer of prose and the book is both funny and easy to read.
The only problem I had was sometimes the writing was so flowery, it was almost like walking through treacle – sweet, sticky and almost sickly.I believe many who read this book will find it objectionable, but there is much to be said for any series of observations which can still raise ire even after this much time.
Instead they devote all their energies into a rat race to grab the man with the best 'compound of small capacities which makes up masculine efficiency,' i.e. the one who will make the most money:'The very fact that marriages occur at all is a proof, indeed, that they are more cool-headed than men, and more adept in employing their intellectual resources, for it is plainly to a man's interest to avoid marriage as long as possible, and as plainly to a woman's interest to make a favourable marriage as soon as she can.'In terms of the opportunities available to women at that time he wasn't exactly wrong there, though he seemed to like it that way.
At the time this work was written, it seems, there was a second-generation of suffragists who wanted to pick up the banner of Ms. Anthony's cause and claim it for their own interests.
This happens all the time with second-generation causes and movements.
I suppose it has little to do with women in particular and more to do with human nature, but it was, at least, an edifying extract from an altogether caustic collection of writing.I don't know if Mencken ever got to the point as to the reason for a woman's prowess at emotional and verbal manipulation.
Sometimes I wanted to strangle him in his old fashioned treatment of women, and yet in a lot of his statements he was spot on and had a better understanding of the female sex than most men, especially of his era.
A woman who joins one of these parties simply becomes an imitation man, which is to say, a donkey.”He had some great insights into women such as the reason women are so much more religious in Italy is that it's their only time to themselves to get away from the drudgery of hard work.
For example take this opening paragraph of the book:"As a professional critic of life and letters, my principal business in the world is that of manufacturing platitudes for tomorrow, which is to say, ideas so novel that they will be instantly rejected as insane and outrageous by all right thinking men, and so apposite and sound that they will eventually conquer that instinctive opposition, and force themselves into the traditional wisdom of the race."On life's problems:"In truth, I am very suspicious of all rememdies for the major ills of life, and believe that most of them are incurable."On women's opinion of men:"A man's woman folk, whatever their outward show of respect for his merit and authority, always regard him secretly as an ass, and with something akin to pity."On masculinity:"Complete masculinity and stupidity are often indistinguishable."On female cooking:"The American dinner-table, in truth becomes a monument to the defective technic of the American housewife.
Generally, I find Mencken’s wit and clever use of language delightful and entertaining, so I looked forward to this book as some relief reading, the kind you do when you want to cleanse your mind a bit from the concerns of business obligations, ecological disasters, or unattractive household chores left undone.
Calling suffragettes ugly women who want to be men because they will never seduce any was a common enough misogynist insult of the day; it didn’t take much wit to throw that in and I thought detracted from his always reliable attacks upon American politicians and clergy, which were the standard Mencken insults that did make me grin when I occasionally found them resurfacing here.
“Women are despicable; but women are better than men; therefore, men are very despicable.” So says Mencken in his introduction. And that just about sums it up. While ostensibly defending women, he uses the war between the sexes as a platform to display his cutting wit and humorous satire. His skill as a writer is tremendous, and he makes some astute observations - like describing the female as logical and cynical and the male as the emotional romantic - but he has such a jaded view of humanity, it's kind of hard to enjoy reading him.
I got the impression this work was originally meant as satire, but Mencken's personal biases got the better of him as he went along. It comes off as more of an indictment of the rubes he disdains than an actual defense of the fairer sex.
Opiniões infundadas que resultam em conclusões precipitadas e erradas... não, obrigado.(lido em Chengdu, China)
“In Defense of Women” is not at all what it proclaims, but it cannot either be viewed as misogynistic because H.
Mencken married (believe it on not) 1930 a Southern belle suffragette, Sara Haardt, numerous years his younger from Montgomery, Alabama.
Sara Haardt was an English professor at Goucher College, a famous Baltimore school for intelligent women (at the time) where they met 1923 during a Mencken lecture.
Mencken admired Nietzsche, did not like populism and representative democracy (today’s situation make me tend to lean in his thought direction).
Mencken believed representative democracy is a system in which inferior men can, and perhaps do, dominate their superiors.
While I disagree with a lot of the content, it's still a worthwhile read. It's also dumbfounding to see the same lines, arguments, and disagreements trotted out that I hear today almost a hundred years ago. If you believe that things have changed a lot, or that many of the issues that people raise today are new, read this book.
***3/4
It is interesting to hear some wisdom from the 1920's and compare it with how things stand today.

His general condemnation of the “emancipated woman” (suffragettes are singled out for special abuse) is surely not satire, but should be read that way today so as not to be inclined to throw the book across the room.
His lack of awareness of non-heterosexual orientations simply has to be willful (Walt Whitman or Oscar Wilde, anyone?) He squeamishly alludes to the possible existence of “gay” only once, in a discussion of the prohibition on premarital sex: “They fill the Y.M.C.A.’s with scared poltroons full of indescribably disgusting Freudian suppressions”.
In Defense of Women is among the best journalistic essay writing ever, brimming with an array of uncommon words that will have you clinging to your Merriam-Webster (Mencken, like the late William F.
For men, it is that we are a race of romantic bamboozlers, who despite our Math SAT scores, are hopelessly incompetent at seeing things as they are, which is the cynical gift of woman.
(However, there are many (often homely) who do chose their own career advancement, and men better watch their ass.)Of course, Mencken hardly ever wastes worse, and does not care for explaining basic truth to the incompetent (something he attributes from T.
He would applaud you to disagree, as long as you possessed the intellectual integrity to back your claims up, rather than trumpet some sentimental truism (men) or defame his character with Machivellian intent (woman).
His opinion of men is scarcely higher than that of the great apes.This was the first of H.L. Mencken's work which, in parts, felt very dated.
So much has changed culturally and societally since the 1920's that some of the sections involving prominent social issues of his day have lost their significance, and inevitably come off as archaic opinions from an earlier time.That being said, the great majority of his thoughts remain tremendously insightful, and I was surprised at how true so much of it still rings, nearly 100 years later.
Trends and norms may change quickly, but human nature is slower.
As a matter of fact, I find the haphazard use of derogatory definitions, which couldn't hold water in a typhoon, to be a crippling instrument of sheer & unadulterated evil as much as has occurred at the Tower of Babel when that glorified, man-made structure collapsed from its' own shoddy construction.As the title so aptly states, I believe this a book for the average (male) reader of the day, whom Mencken believed to be outclassed & outsmarted by the 'average' woman.
There was no device so bold and inordinate that it daunted her.This DOES NOT, my kindly GoodReaders, sound derogatory in the least.
If he had more logic to his argument against them it would've made sense, but he reduced himself to broad insults, the type he had just accused "mentally inferior men" of using against the average woman.
Clearly he's got a beef with some suffragette somewhere that got under his skin.I also have a problem with his assessment of women and prostitution and he seems to lack either knowledge or understanding of issues like domestic violence.
Yet the impressive logic, albeit in spots, was enough to make me pleased I read it.
The book perhaps begins to lose steam about halfway in, just because the shock value eventually reaches a point of maximum return, and slowly peters off as you realize that Mencken seems to have convinced himself that his originally ironic description is in fact true.
That is to say, the next time he walks past a tree, he'll force himself not to look at it, or act in any way strangely about it, thereby ensuring that he appears absurdly stilted in all future sylvan situations.Anyway, Mencken is a super fun writer, so by all means pick this up if what you're searching for is NOT trenchant analysis of early 20th century feminism.
Still find the book very interesting and important for the way we understand women and their side of a relationship, marriage, work or even religion.
The book is generally based on the idea that an average woman is essentially stronger than the average man in the emotional, mental and psychological sense.
He presented the woman as a more developed or sophisticated humans than men and how this fact is shaping the dynamic between men and women.
In general, I think it's an essential read for men to get a more realistic understanding of the men/women fiasco.
This book had a few working titles before "In Defense of Women" was settled upon.
I hardly think its a good title, but it is an amusing read.
If you like Mencken, you'll like this book, because it is of course classic Mencken.
He spends equal time on offense against women (or more likely offending them), as he does defending them, with that being said, he spends far more time criticizing men and explaining the superior intellect and upper hand women have over them.
The central theme seems to be that men are plagued with sentimentalities (this being a masculine affect) and women are traditionallty not, therefore they are able to bend men to their wills.

can the society be more predictable?
Published in 1922 it predict plenty of things happening nowadays.
and amazingly he stated : "it is impossible to imagine a genuinely intelligent human being becoming a competent trial lawyer, or buttonhole worker, or newspaper sub-editor, or piano tuner, or house painter." oh thank you thank you!!
Women have more intelligence and talent to waste in such dull activities :)If we women could just care more ( I know, it's too much to ask , too much of a bore and nuisance but if ...) and rule the world this would be a nicer, just place to live.
Until then keep genuine and act smart!
But I cannot think of a single person to whom I would recommend it.
Even though "In Defense of Women" was published in 1918 when the social and employment prospects for women were far different that they are now, there are parts that will reach in and stab you where it hurts even in our current era of enlightenment.
Read it only if you have very thick skin and don't care about retaining any sentimental innocence.
It is also quite interesting as a period piece that can't help but shed some light on post World War I America, albeit from an excessively jaundiced point of view.
