https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76812.Cetaganda
Miles was sent to the funeral ceremony as a diplomatic representative of his planet accompanied by his cousin Ivan who was supposed to keep his relative out of troubles.
The lower middle picture is sooo Miles...I have to be fair and admit that the first trouble found our heroes practically the moment they landed on the capital planet of the Empire.
From that moment on the events began unfolding so fast poor Ivan did not have enough time for his favorite hobby: meeting new girls.
I thought I would give the book the highest rating practically until the end.
much like the protagonist Miles, I was immediately enchanted.unlike Miles, the reader is able to quickly discern that these remote and regal ladies actually control their empire.
perhaps Miles was fooled by titles like "Consort" and "Handmaiden" - but still, it was a little surprising seeing that both Miles' mom and the love of his life are subtle, independent women who are completely in control.
Miles turns into a walking boner as soon as a "Haut" Lady (yes, that is what they are called, um) opens up her force bubble...
dim, grouchy-sweet, unimaginative, loyal, lady-killin' Ivan, what's not to like.
and speaking of what not to like, Miles actually refers to himself as a genius in this one.
I love, love, love the writing, the storytelling, the adventure, the fact that a reader of every age can read this series, and even if bad things happen and there are evil people who do evil things, by the end of the books you have your faith in humanity and The Light renewed and an overall positive feeling gives you the optimistic attitude to face the day and look forward to the next time you return to this world.!!!This particular book's action happens on a different planet, in a society based on very controlled genetic engineering and gene manipulation.
UPDATED 2017.04.02 with Worst Cover Gallery - check down below and feel free to comment!_________________________I had so much fun with this book.
Miles was his usual self, saving the world (and the lady) in what was a complete improv, but extremely effective one nonetheless.
I like how Bujold's stories are so well balanced and are the perfect mix of adventure, world building, technologies and simple human stuff.
Sometimes they're slower, sometimes faster, like Cetaganda, but never boring (at least so far as now).One thing was extremely creepy to me though.
Why kittens?
Because of the kitten willow?
_________________________Worst Cover GalleryThere's quite a decent amount of horrible covers for this book, yay!
A mouth that consistently gets Miles in trouble.
Cetaganda's culture is a real treat, but I think I'm always going to focus on the trees.
:)Funny, fast, and it's so WEIRD how Miles is so honorable.
lolOriginal Review:I really enjoyed the inner workings of Cetaganda and the intrigue.
Miles is always a treat, not only because he's such a brat, but also because he is the author of his own troubles.
Without such verve and curiosity, then very little might have come of the plot, but fortunately, we're talking about Miles.
Seeing how Miles gets himself into trouble is.Great fun!
This book was supposed to be better because it is a relatively typical whodunnit, a murder mystery.Miles and his cousin Ivan are sent to Cetaganda, the seat of the Cetagandan Empire, for the funeral of the Emperor's late mother.
Add to that the fact that I had been bored before this point already because on top of the mystery not being mysterious, the characters were also bland (especially when compared to those of the first three novels).
Ivan was only there for flashback glimpses into Miles' childhood, as a sidekick that was also supposed to make Miles look even smarter, and sometimes as a comedic relief but failed to make me even only grin.
Cetaganda doesn't have the manic energy of The Warrior's Apprentice, which retains top spot as my favourite Vorkosigan book so far. It lacks that pell-mell, out-of-control sense of urgency that I absolutely fell in love with. But it is still a solid entry into the series, and Miles remains an incredibly appealing character to read about.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Another fun misadventure with Miles. Interesting and unusual Cetagandan world, priceless banter with Ivan, series of ridiculous and dangerous events and a tough case for Miles to solve. Probably the most fun book with Miles so far.
Buddy read with Choko and Evgeny.It's time to explore a new planet in the Nexus.
And let me tell you, they sure are something different.Ever since the first time I read this book I've been fascinated by the complex culture of the Cetagandans.
The haut are the ruling class and are the closest thing to aliens in the Vorkosigan Universe.
Well, no, because Miles doesn't take no for an answer, is way too curious and needs someone to do his dirty business because he is too physically damaged to do it himself.
3.5 starsReally nicely written with excellent worldbuilding. I didn't enjoy it quite as much as the previous books mainly because it is a mystery set planetside on Cetaganda rather than an action adventure in space or in various locations - so a matter of my taste for stories. But really, this series continues to be excellent.
Still, as a comic foil Ivan does yeoman work, and this time the story is a murder mystery set in the intricate court of the Cetegandan Empire on the occasion of the death of the Dowager Empress.The elite part of Cetagandan society is a complex mix of Ghem lords, gender-neutral courtiers, Haut ladies hidden in opaque energy field bubbles, and the the Emperor and Dowager Empress.
Following the resounding success of my Locus Quest, I faced a dilemma: which reading list to follow it up with? Variety is the spice of life, so I’ve decided to diversify and pursue six different lists simultaneously. This book falls into my FINISHING THE SERIES! list.I loves me a good series! But I'm terrible for starting a new series before finishing my last - so this reading list is all about trying to close out those series I've got on the go.The general consensus amongst fans of the Vorkos
But I'm terrible for starting a new series before finishing my last - so this reading list is all about trying to close out those series I've got on the go.The general consensus amongst fans of the Vorkosigan Saga seems to be that while 
This is my tenth book in the series (I’m reading them largely out of order) and as a fully-fledged fan I’ll add my weight to that position.
It’s a good book – probably not the best place to start in the series, but for fans of the series very much worth checking out.
When I signed on for the series read this is the book I was most curious about.
The plot/mystery/conspiracy is an excellent vehicle to explore the world-building and an interesting supporting cast of various origins.One thing I am noticing though in reading all of these back to back like this is that I'm getting a little sick of Miles.
Still, it helps that I know where this series ends up and that he does eventually learn (a little) humility.
I remember reading this book when it was first published and thinking it was very light by comparison to the rest of the series--well, it followed Mirror Dance, so that made sense. It's still one of my favorites, and I'm impressed by the Cetagandan culture and how Miles and Ivan tromp all over it in their Vor size twelves (or whatever size shoe Miles wears). It's a clever little mystery, very enjoyable, and I cannot get the image of the kitten tree out of my head.
"What did you think you were doing, Vorkosigan?""I stopped the Cetagandan Empire from breaking up into eight aggressively expanding units. I derailed plans for a war by some of them with Barrayar. I survived an assassination attempt, and helped catch three high-ranking traitors. Admittedly, they weren't our traitors, but still. Oh. And I solved a murder. That's enough for one trip, I hope."
While this was another fun addition to the series, it struck me as a bit too convoluted & convenient to really work at times.
Much hinged on security & technology gaffs that didn't fully make sense, still it was a fun trip featuring Miles & Ivan.
They're great characters & if you just go along for the ride, it's quite entertaining.It was also nice to get a better look at Ceteganda.
They're mentioned quite often in other books, but this is the first time we get to see the beasts in their natural habitat.
Their philosophy, culture, & world is interesting.
3.5 stars. A solid entry in this excellent space opera series. Not my favorite of the bunch, but still a good read.
The fault may be on my side as I didn’t have that much time for reading… But I guess it’s just a weaker volume, unfortunately.Mostly, let’s be honest, because of Miles.
His growing up is depicted so off-handedly because Miles sees him as that idiotic cousin he has to bring everywhere… But it is there and it’s lovely what a good person he is becoming.
In case you don’t know me, I love well-developed characters with good hearts, loyal and kind.So, although it was the weakest part of the Vorkosigan saga in my opinion, I’m excited to continue my reading of the novels!
Not sure what to think of this, but it was one of my least favorite books in this series, which I've been dabbling with for some time.
It's not my favorite series, but it tends to be reliable and entertaining, but ...
I doubt this will cause me to give up on the series, particularly because: (1) I've read a couple of the later installments, and they're some of my favorites; and (2) plenty of series readers liked this one more than I did, so maybe I just didn't fully engage early on.
"Technically" assigned to Barrayarian Security Miles has been sent to Cetaganda for the funeral of the Cetagandain Empress.The book sets out to tell an intricate, Byzantine type story of palace intrigue.
It does a pretty good job and the story holds the interest fairly well.
There was once in this novel that I skipped forward a bit, the first time this has happened with this series.
It's still about Miles and it continues the "saga".
Three (3) stars and a recommendation that's just a bit less enthusiastic than the ones for the 2 novels of the series before this one.
In filling in some missing details in her fictional timeline, she brings to bear the collective weight of the story and characters as they exist elsewhere in the universe of the Vorkosigan Saga to present a fascinating answer to the question of the Cetagandans.In other books in the series, the Cetagandan Empire is a rather faceless collection of baddies that exist as a foil to the goodness of Miles and his native Barrayar.
And unlike Dune and its sequels, Cetagana never dips down into the mundane or tedious, instead restricting its fictional space-anthropology to the breathing spaces in the fast-paced mystery plot.This is probably my favorite Vorkosigan book yet.
Not my very favorite in this series so far, but still an excellent mystery/adventure. Miles Vorkosigan and his cousin are sent as diplomatic envoys to a state funeral on Cetaganda. Basically, all they're expected to do is to show up and look suitably grave.However, the minute their spaceship docks, a mysterious assault occurs. In a combination of diplomatic tact and egotistical curiosity, Miles stays silent about the event, and embarks on solving the mystery himself. Murder, politics, an enigmatic beauty, and a colorful society all come into play in a fast-moving story.
A ten-day trip to observe and enjoy social customs (and parties) quickly turns sour when Miles become embroiled in a mystery and suicide/murder that threatens to frame him, and by implication Barrayar, for a treasonous usurpation plot.
Miles, being Miles, convinces himself, and Ivan, that only he can save Barrayar's honor and salvage the Cetagandan society from destruction or evolving into a more aggressive and expanding threat to Barrayar.
Of the five Vorkosigan Saga novels I've read, Cetaganda is probably my second favorite, right after Barrayar The mystery muddled me, the bioscience intrigued me and the Cetaganda society bemused me.
After hearing so much about Cetaganda it was nice to get to know about Barrayar's primary enemies, how their society works and the reason for their constant need of expansion. It's interesting to see Miles grow as a character, but at the same time see him struggle with his appearance and just wanting the recognition he thinks he deserves. I think this is building up to something, so we will see.Still, great story. If you're a Sci-Fi fan, you need to read this series.
Dentro de la iniciativa #LeoAutorasOct. Hacen buena pareja Miles y el primo Ivan, y es que son un excelente contrapunto. Siempre es un placer leer a Bujold, independientemente de que sea una aventura de Miles o no.
More fun with Miles! Lois McMaster Bujold doesn't disappoint.
In a change from the more space-opera tone of the immediately chronologically preceding Vorkosigan novels, Cetaganda is pretty much a mystery novel in spaaaaace.
Yep, Miles learns about diplomacy.
In terms of worldbuilding, we the readers get to learn more about the heretofore mysterious Cetagandans, who previously were known for (a) starting wars and (b) wearing facepaint.The Cetagandan dowager empress is dead and Miles and Ivan are off to the funeral.
With diplomacy.The Cetagandans themselves are surprisingly fun -- though I could have done with a little less of Miles' drooling over the haut Rian -- and the characters, as always, are interesting.
So much that is fun in this book.
The Cetagandan society, Miles trying to figure out what is going on, Ivan providing a lot of amusement.
The book is by turns witty and serious.
Miles falls in love (for a time) with a Cetagandan haut woman and tries to save her, not realizing that she is the one with all of the power.
The structure of Cetagandan society is at once weird and lovely and stultifying.
Are the haut even human.
It's dangerous for humans in fairyland.
The kitten tree is truly horrifying and Ivan's reaction to it is hilarious.

After the incredible job that Bujold did in "Mirror Dance", I think that it was impossible for her to surpass herself. So, Cetanganda has more the feel of a transitional book, before ramping up into even more unbelievably entertaining adventures. Even so, Cetaganda was fun and had a solid plot. And I must say that poor Ivan needs to be in the spotlight now and then.
