https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29981261-the-butterfly-garden
At night the Garden was a place of shadows and moonlight, where you could more clearly hear all the illusions that went into making it what it was.  The Butterfly Garden was a book I knew nothing about. I haven't been highly anticipating it for months and it only made it on to my "to read" shelf a few days ago. But it popped up in my GR feed and everything about it called to me. It exuded a dark creepiness that drew me in. It promised a story of beauty and horror. And my instincts were right -
But it is the witness they are interviewing - known only as Maya - who really knows what it was like behind the garden walls.
The author doesn't shy away from grotesque details, but it is so well-written, each character so well-crafted, that it never feels gratuitous or deliberately sensational.But, perhaps the thing that makes The Butterfly Garden stand out so much from other thrillers that contain tension, mystery and psychopaths, is the relationship between the young women.
All of them complex, layered and thought-provoking.The Butterfly Garden is somehow both a horrifying thriller and the tale of the friendships and rivalries between young women.
Do you (a) immediately go to the police and free your fellow Butterflies from rape, torture, and certain death or (b) just go back to your normal-ass life.
Do you (a) get the fuck into this mystery garden and find out wtf is going on or (b) just ignore it and live your stupid rich life.
If you picked even one (b) you might want to consider that you are possibly a character in this stupid-ass book who has the intelligence of a concussed donkey.
Not ONE GIRL out of OVER A HUNDRED ever tried to fight back against the Gardener.
There was an extremely disturbing account nearing the end involving a child which is a major trigger for lots of people, so there’s your fair warning.I definitely felt the author did a fine job of developing her characters; I felt apprehensive once I’d finished the book because I was worried about leaving these characters behind, almost like they wouldn’t be ok on their own without my watching over them to recover from The Garden, which I think is remarkable for a book under 300 pages.
This author sure knows how to wrap up a story.
There is little that will thrill you except for, like I said, the beginning with its multiple revelations and ending for similar reasons.But you know what really happens in this book?
I’m probably shaking my brain out of its resting place wondering why the hell did the author not provide a glossary with the names.
I wish I had known this was going to be so slow and uneventful (unless you call getting to know person after person eventful) and repetitive.
You are disoriented from being drugged and then a girl with a huge butterfly tattoo on her back tells you that this is your new home.
The Gardener has chosen you to be one of his "Butterflies."Before we go farther let's discuss what exactly that means.
Her voice tells her story even before the garden and I became attached to her character.
It's very readable since I've been book slumping and haven't wanted to read a thing for weeks.
For reals?The fact that sometimes there were over twenty girls in the garden.
Uh..one gardener..twenty girls?
The story alternates between the past and present, as Maya provides the horrifying details of her abduction and captivity.
Regardless, I think that the way this story was told, gradually revealing the secrets of the garden, was brilliant.Maya, along with several other girls, lived for years in captivity.
Toward the end of the book there is one particularly disturbing account of abuse that is especially difficult to read.
I questioned many things, as I listened to Maya's account of her captivity.For example, there are around 20 girls between 16 and 21 years of age.
But the more she shares, the more the agents have to wonder what she’s still hiding...Maya is one of The Gardener's collected butterflies, young women "collected" and kept by him to admire, touch and "love".
I felt SO many emotions reading this book and found the plot absolutely fascinating yet disturbing at the same time.The Gardener has been honing his collecting skills for a very long time.
Forever.The book cleverly switches timeline between Maya's story IN the garden and her telling the FBI her story and the story of the other butterflies.
This book is featured as this week's pick for Throwback Thursday @ https://readrantrockandroll.com/2017/...The Butterfly Garden by Dot Hutchison is a captivating thriller.
The Gardener sees something special in her and it might be more than he can handle as she devises a plan of her own.I liked the characters and felt they had good development.
When reading the book, I had flashbacks to some of my favorites like The Silence of the Lambs and Kiss The Girls.
I wasn’t sure if I liked the format of the writing, but still remained fairly fascinated with the story.
That shouldn’t take away from the author’s ability to craft an original idea that immediately captivates....until it just doesn't anymore.The story starts with the FBI trying to piece together what happened in what is know as the Garden to the girls knows as “butterflies.” They were held captive by a man they called the Gardener.
It allowed me to question Maya as a narrator, never quite knowing whether to believe every word she was saying.The problem is I didn’t exactly care about everything Maya had to say.
In a way I get how this is where a lot of the excellent characterization came from, but honestly I just wanted her to shut up.
For more than a year now I've been making little pictures for my reviews, and this is the first time it doesn't feel right, especially if using a butterfly.
Alright.The Butterfly Garden is a disturbing, dark, unforgettable novel that you won't be able to put down until the very end, whose sick atmosphere will grab you instantly and attach you to its characters whether you like it or not.
Do not fear, The Butterfly Garden is definitely not a love story (and again, a statement whose need baffles me, given the subject handled).
The Butterfly Garden sure didn't.
It dealt with all kinds of different feelings and emotions, that I still have after reading this book.
I just loved the writing style.The book starts out with FBI Agents interviewing a survivor, a butterfly set free from captivity.
As Maya is telling her story, the FBI Agents learn more about the man known as the Gardener, who kidnaps young women and tattoos butterfly wings on their backs before raping them and keeping them captive in his garden.
Maya is one of the captive butterflies and I loved her the best.
I think it's because with psych-thrillers we are expected to believe these are real people experiencing things in our current, real world.So, you tell me...in the real world, given 20 young, healthy women between the ages of 16 & 21 against 1 middle-aged man, can you think of a single reason why they couldn't overpower him?The reason given in the story is "fear".
(hide spoiler)] So they stay and wait for death, (view spoiler)[and are repeatedly raped by their captor as well as physically abused by his son.
Readers need a "tell", a hint of some sort that there is something not quite right with the character.
Once or twice a year, if I am lucky, a get to read a book that really touches some inner part of me.
Now I want to read every word she has ever written, and every word she is going to write in the future.
Their questions and her answers take her back over her time there.The Butterfly Garden is an outstanding read and is currently at the top of my ten best reads of the year.Thank you to NetGalley and Thomas & Mercer for providing a digital ARC of The Butterfly Garden by Dot Hutchison for review.
"But my wings couldn’t move and I couldn’t fly, I couldn’t even cry. All that was left to me was the terrorand the agony and the sorrow." Wow! this was like totally fucked up!HOLD UP A SECOND! THIS IS... THIS IS YA?!? I'M DONE. I NEED SOMETHING FUNNY AND CUTE NOW!!Not very long ago Captive in the Dark was the craziest book i knew of. I couldn't even imagine any other book being able to beat the creepiness of that story. Then came You, and Joe just blew my mind. But these two books are rainbows
I NEED SOMETHING FUNNY AND CUTE NOW!!Not very long ago Captive in the Dark was the craziest book i knew of.
This book on the other hand is just plain wrong.
There were some scenes that left me feeling physically dirty.
I can't even decide weather i hate this book or absolutely love it.
I don't know if this book is starting to get to me or what, but i find this hilarious!!
Literally, tears!ARE YOU FUCKING TELLING ME ALL THESE GIRLS CAN'T TAKE DOWN ONE ASSHOLE?!
I am only 20% in and i'm already feeling sick to my stomach.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || Pinterest09/28/17: This book is currently $1.99 for Kindle (and so is the sequel!)Huge thank yous to the author and publisher for putting this book up on Netgalley. It's probably one of the best books I've received for review from that site this year. I'm rather desperate to get my hands on A WOUNDED NAME now. Authors who excel at doom and gloom are so few and far betweenBut Hutchison does. Oh, boy, she does. I would be very surprised if Hutchison n
It is possible to be influenced by other work(s) and still make your story your own - something Hutchison does with great skill.
Honestly, it reads like Gillian Flynn decided to rewrite THE COLLECTOR as a dysfunctional harem in the style of James Patterson's Alex Cross books, and it's darned good.Maya was taken from the Garden.
The Gardener kidnaps young women and tattoos butterfly wings on their backs.
His sons, Avery and Desmond, were also interesting characters - Desmond, especially.Anyone looking for a good psychological thriller/mystery will do well to read THE BUTTERFLY GARDEN.

Due to a VERY slow day at work, I started and finished this book in one day!
I loved the writing, and the story felt so original.
Kudos to the author.Why did I knock off a star?
Eh, not for me.But the rest of the book is so good and so worth reading.
I love the sorta-split POV, how it bounces seamlessly between past and present.
I'm not sure why this is categorized as an adult thriller (yes, the content is super graphic, but the writing and POV felt YA to me).SO all in all, 4 stars and a recommendation from me.
All that was left to me was the terror and the agony and the sorrow.This story is about an evil man only known as the Gardener.
The girls he takes, preferably at the age of sixteen so he can keep them until their twenty-first birthday when he can preserve them FOREVER.
It is the strangest book I have ever read about a captor/prisoner situation.
I have to be careful at reading books about rape.
I would think he would keep him out of his garden forever.
I think this author did a great job at writing a book like I have never read before.
This book was truly disturbing and graphic and let me tell you definitely NOT for your average thriller lover.
The novel starts off with a former captive "butterfly" in the care of the FBI.
The FBI has raided this so-called Butterfly Garden and has more women recovering in the hospital and some that are dead.
This book is sick, twisted, and creepy as hell.
These women are help captive and are brutally raped, murdered, and treated JUST like butterflies my friends.
The ONLY minor issue I had with this book was the ending.
I was good at escaping people, not manipulating them.  Actual Rating: 3.5 Stars. I've been sitting here with my mouse frozen for a little while now because I have to say, this could have been a five up until the final chapter. I'm joining the ranks of almost every reviewer on the page - the ending reveal is horribly anticlimactic, and I'd argue that element should've been changed. Yet aside from that one element, and just being overall kind of underwhelmed, I did really really like this? I've l
The male narrator's character voicing is horrible; his Maya only has one tone, that of annoyance, and lacks the depth she's given in her own swaths of narration.
She's a very complex character; one who's hard to figure out, and one who's not entirely pure at all times.
The amazing thing about this book is its tone; even in moments where everything is hell, the book manages to keep things rather tonally flat, giving the book its signature creepiness.
And while The Butterfly Garden never went the full distance I wanted, I do think this story is suspenseful and Maya's character is quite compelling.
In a beautiful garden, with gorgeous flowers, streams and waterfalls are the butterflies.
But not just any butterflies, these butterflies are human, stunning girls, taken as teenagers by a man they only know as the Gardener.
The Gardener, who loves his butterflies so much he imprisons, tattoos and rapes them.
Then one day the garden is no more...
This is the story of one of the butterflies, Maya, as she is interviewed by the FBI after their escape/rescue.
It is a powerful story, when you finish reading it you just sit there and reflect on what you have just read.
It starts off with two FBI agents, Victor Hanoverian and Brandon Eddison, interviewing a young woman, Maya/Inara, who was rescued with other girls that were being held captive by a person only known as 'The Gardener.' The story is told in third and first person perspectives.
The third person being in the interview room (mainly), and the first person is where she gradually tells her backstory of how she ended up becoming a 'butterfly' - which is not fast enough for Eddison.
In Summation: It's an interesting story, which is a bit of a slow burn; mainly because Hanoverian doesn't push Maya/Inara too hard, I guess.
"What choices are you making, Desmond?""I don't think I'm making any choices right now.""Then you're automatically making the wrong ones. [...] Not making a choice is a choice. Neutrality is a concept, not a fact. No one actually gets to live their lives that way." Imagine the following scenario: You are living your normal life; as complicated and difficult as it may be, at least you are living your life in freedom. Until one day everything changes for you; someone kidnaps you; and you wake up
This concept can be discovered in a general lack of characterizing the Gardener or exploring his motives except for his sociopathic sickness, and it certainly succeeds in causing the effect that even we ourselves never quite know what to expect from the book's villain.All this sounds like a promising premise.
She included a constant contradiction between the beauties and the horrors of this world - after all, how can it be possible to even imagine that abuse and death occur in a place as peaceful as "a garden so beautiful it nearly hurt to look at it; [where] brilliant flowers of every conceivable cover bloomed in a riotous profusion of leaves and trees, clouds of butterflies drifting through them"?
This book was one of the best I have read.
It had so many twists and turns in it that you couldn't help but keep reading the book!
This book was one creepy book!
I don't want to spoil it for anyone, but if you don't have a good stomach, I wouldn't read this book..Honestly, this is one of the hardest books I've had to review.
You really can't say much without giving away the entire book!
The one thing I will say is take notes!
You will forget shit...
have to read the book!

Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/I actually heard about The Butterfly Garden from one of my real life friends (I know I know shocking to hear I have friends, but have no fear there’s only like three of them).
Per usual I was late for the party and ended up FIFTY-SECOND on the waiting list.
We’ll call Option #1 the “Ron 2.0” reaction .
Buuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuut, with all those flaws The Butterfly Garden was an extremely readable story.
"Where are we?""The Garden." This book fucked me up.  Take a look at me anytime while I was reading The Butterfly Garden and you'd find me like this: with a hand over my gaping mouth, eyes bugging out, and a greenish tint to my face. I'm still here like, what the shit did I just read?Well let me tell you what I just read. A dark, twisted story about girls savaged by a delusional captor who *trigger warning* stamps, rapes, and then kills them (not spoilers). It's sad, it's sickening, and it's ut
Take a look at me anytime while I was reading The Butterfly Garden and you'd find me like this: with a hand over my gaping mouth, eyes bugging out, and a greenish tint to my face.
I'm not sure if this is a story for everyone, and it's not one I would say was pleasurable to read exactly, but if you like dark tales that'll give you high blood pressure, then you've met your match.
Real butterflies could fly away, out of reach.
The Gardener's Butterflies could only ever fall, and that but rarely.
This book had me absolutely mesmerized!
Right from the first chapter all the way to the end, I was held captive.
The Garden sounded absolutely idyllic except for its purpose.
Everything sounded beautiful except for The Gardener.I really don't want to touch on the plot or the characters.
Go into this book ignorant.
Don't even read the blurb.
I loved the characters, especially the strong main character Maya and the patient Special Agent in Charge Victor Hanoverian.This book is beautiful, but also quietly disturbing.
It's told in a very special manner.
I loved it!
This book is dark with a capital DISTURBING...my favorite kind.Favorite Quote:“Some people stay broken. Some pick up the pieces and put them back together with all the sharp edges showing.”I am now a Dot Hutchinson fan. The imagery she is able to create with words is beyond reproach. Highly recommend for those that enjoy a good mind-fuck.
*Spoiler*The Butterfly Garden reads like a derivative of Tarryn Fisher's Mud Vein.
And much like my experience with MV, this book kept my attention from the first and until the last page; yet, I found it so vacuous I'm almost certain that I Iost some neurons.
Firstly, the plot holes had holes.Secondly, the kidnapped victims seemed (to me) to suffer from a serious case of self-indulgence mixed with an inexplicable lack of self-preservation.
Thirdly, if other book villains somehow got the opportunity to meet "The Gardener", they would, without a doubt, revoke his villain card.
