https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/66508.Borrower_of_the_Night
A tongue-in-cheek mystery. Lots of fun with a heroine who has an insatiable curiosity tucked into the body of an amazon beauty. She is slightly cynical, extremely smart and has a high self esteem. Unusual in a heroine but Vicky Bliss is not your usual heroine. Her kinda boyfriend makes a bet with her that if he can prove he is intellectually superior to her she will marry him. Pshaw! The two set out to uncover a mystery and find an archeological artifact lost for centuries. Who will find it first?
There has also been time for it to gently age from contemporary to historical fiction, urp.
This kicks off the set about the art historian from the Midwest (my home); the Kirbys are about the librarian with the giant purse, both brainy women beyond the age of the usual ingenues.Lavish setting, intertwined historical and current murder plots in a castle in south Germany, a certain amount of "my research -- let me show it to you" supported by the shared academic backgrounds of writer and protagonist.Still fun, after all these years.L.
Borrower of the Night  takes her to Bavaria and a 16 Century castle turned into a hotel, where a priceless wood sculpture from the time of the Reformation may be hidden.There are some parallels that can be drawn between Vicky Bliss and Amelia Peabody - both strong, opinionated women, impulsive and careless of the dangers inherent to their career paths.
The prize is a shrine sculpted by Riemenschneider (he's real, I checked, and his art is superb), and the key to unlocking the mystery requires the solution to a 600 years old murder.
Indeed, I very nearly quit about halfway through as I just didn't care about anything—not the characters, not the setting, certainly not the "mystery".And I never did figure Vicky out, much.
No wonder Vicky thinks she's unsuitable and doesn't want to ever marry.
Looking at her candidates, I'd be refusing matrimony with real bricks delivered at speed, myself.Which leaves the mystery for interest and that didn't actually get started (not really) until well past midway.
I suppose it's not that far from Mary Stewart's work, in a way, but the narration just made it feel cartoonish, more than anything else.
And I don't think Mary Stewart ever set anything in a gothic sort of castle with ~mysteriously moving~ suits of armour.Not to mention her protagonists are usually a lot more likeable and don't waffle on about how smart and beautiful they are so much.
Some of the narration was fun -- her description of herself as a "bouncing Brunhild" was a pretty perfect way to say it -- but mostly...
I enjoyed this series immensely.
I loved the first chapter of this book.
Vicky's introduction, Tony's proposal, the bet...it is good fun and left me chuckling.
And I love the end.
The conclusion to the bet I didn't see coming because series like this tend to follow a pattern and it didn't occur to me the pattern would deviate.
The mystery itself only gets about 3 stars from me.
It was clever and plays off the reader's assumptions nicely, but it was mostly Vicky and Tony stumbling around and then presenting brilliant hypotheses that they pull from dust.
I enjoyed it enough that I definitely want more!
Really, I'm having a hard time finding enough in the way of feelings about it to say much more - it did pass the time*, and, I guess, allow me to read the other books knowing I haven't missed anything by starting mid-series.
The dinner party and conversation that sets Tony and Vicky on their merry way is ridiculous, and Vicky's part in it, and her "friendships" with these people say nothing good about her.
(view spoiler)[When Vicky said she hoped the Countess had at least burned to death believing she was serving her master, i.e., the Devil, it seemed very wrong on a number of levels.
As soon as they arrive they find that they are not the only ones looking for it, that their chosen place of stay is a gothic castle complete with ghosts and some pretty disagreeable characters and that to find the shrine they have first to solve an old mystery dating back to the 16th century.However interesting I think it lacked a bit more character development and a better expression of Vicky and Tony's relationship.
There are two matters that resulted in 3 stars, with high praise.‘Dr. Vicky Bliss’ self-deprecates being tall and robust but is confident in her skin.
This novel is about a quest for treasure in a medieval German town, Rothenburg but acquainting Vicky and ‘Tony’ is given time to simmer.
Readers must understand the impact of the work of art Vicky is investigating.My most salient critique is the location of something important.
I maintain my praise about being well coached in history but excess lag did result because treasure-hunting and major discoveries were far too staggered, even with Vicky in Rothenburg.
I've been hearing about  Elizabeth Peters' Vicky Bliss and Amelia Peabody books for quite awhile now and for some reason just haven't found my way to reading any of them until now.
When we first meet Vicky, she is teaching at a college in the Midwest and maintaining a sort of on-again off-again relationship with her colleague Tony Lawrence.
Ha. The two soon find themselves racing each other to Germany in search of a medieval artifact presumed missing for centuries.
I liked Vicky and Tony right off the bat.
But once they got to Germany, things seemed to slow down for me.
Cause I really wanted to like this series.
I loved the Amelia Peabody series, so I tried this one. I do not like Vicky Bliss! Aside from her constant "I'm not being vain, but I'm ridiculously hot" comments, I was SICK TO DEATH with her women's lib rhetoric. I know this was written in the 70's and that was more topical, but really, a women that fixated on what men are, can, or should be doing for her, is not liberated.
What a lovely little mystery book!!I don't know if Peters was a feminist or not, but her character, Vicky Bliss, is definitely a woman who knows what she wants, isn't the slightest bit afraid to go out and get it, and doesn't let the men in her life tell her what to do or when to do it. I like Vicky!I've already ordered the next book in the series, so my recommendation goes without saying ;).
Pacing was very slow, as is trademark Peters, but without the depth stories need to make slow pacing successful.Characters were fun, especially Vicki and Tony.
It's hinted she may feel mere rejection because of Tony, George, and every other male drooling at another female character, but when she believes they may have no love for her anymore, she doesn't seem to mind.
People who love mysteries but who are a virgin to Peters may be turned off by the lack of intensity, while cozy fans that are Elizabeth Peter regulars will likely feel right at home.
Die von und zu Drachensteins sollen den Schrein damals in Auftrag gegeben haben und so verbringen Vicky, Tony und einige andere dubiose Gestalten (zufällig alle zur selben Zeit) einige Tage auf der zum Hotel umgebauten Burg Drachenstein.Wie in allen Romanen von Elizabeth Peters geht es um eine starke, eigenwillige Frau, die einen Kriminalfall löst.
Mir hat das Setting auch Burg Drachenstein sehr gut gefallen, denn ein altes Gemäuer, das zum Hotel umgebaut wird, birgt nicht wenig Romantik und die Suche in den finsteren Geheimgängen der Burg ist doch recht abenteuerlich.
Dennoch muss ich nach wie vor sagen, dass „Der geheimnisvolle Schrein“ nicht nur zu den etwas älteren Werken zählt und daher etwas antiquiert erscheint, sondern auch stilistischverbesserungswürdig ist.
In fact, I'm struggling to think of what I DID like about this book.
Tony is a total asshat who treats Vicky with disrespect and has an out-of-control ego.
They were searching for a lost work of art which they happened to read about in a book.
Apparently everyone else in the world incidentally read the same book the exact same week because everyone was looking for this thing independently.
Telegraphs and kerosene lamps suggest early in the century, but Vicky's wearing pants and working as a professor, so that seems less likely.
Really enjoyable story and good characters, except for the lead who was just sooooo annoying. Wouldn't stop going on about what an independent, smart woman she was. I like Amelia Peabody much better.
My favorite series by this author.
Dr. Vicky Bliss is a strong, intelligent woman, who learned very young that because she was smarter than the boys in her class they felt threatened by her.
When she is hired to be a teacher at an exclusive school in the mid-west, she meets Tony, another teacher who is not threatened by her looks or intelligence.
One night, while waiting for him to finish his work, she starts reading a book in the pile of books and her imagination is started and they individually plan a trip to Germany to find the missing piece of art.
It provided some history and other information and showed the relationship between Vicky and Tony and the changes it makes throughout the trip.
It took some time before the book actually picked up, so I DID enjoy parts of it. But for the most part, it was a bit boring, dragged a little, and I had some trouble really relating with the characters; although Vicky was pretty fun at some points. The men were all jerks.So this book was just a so-so, though I had fun when things finally got interesting in the middle.Possible review to come.
A solid start to this series. Not sure I loved our heroine as much as Ms Peters other characters but like the way the narrator brought this one to life.
I love the tone in Elizabeth Peters's books, and Barbara Rosenblat really delivers.
Her voice is extremely flexible, and she did a great job with accents and the range of characters.Vicky Bliss, an extremely tall and buxom historian, finds what she thinks is new evidence of a new work by a famous German sculptor.
Usually I don't find the experience of listening to the story makes me enjoy a book more than if I had read it, but in this case, the audio version definitely added to my enjoyment of the book.
Originally published on my blog here in June 1999.One of Elizabeth Peters' earliest novels (the first of the Vicky Bliss series), Borrower of the Night does not quite have as well developed a sense of satire as many of her later books.
It is probably hidden in a sinister castle, which comes complete with the stereotypical details of such fiction (secret passages, apparently ghostly apparitions, a rightful heiress kept from enjoying her property by a wicked relative).As always with Elizabeth Peters, Borrowers of the Night is fun without taxing the mind to the smallest degree.
However, now men seem to be determined to change her mind.
Vicky must battle with her coworker Tony who is determined to prove himself her intellectual superior in order to dominate over her and make her his wife.
Vicky soon discovers that she has more people to compete with than possible fiancés when she arrives at a mysterious German castle where trouble is already afoot.
The descriptions of the German castle and its history are really what hooked me into the book, but Vicky's sense of humor is what made it an easy read.
I hear the library keeps Elizabeth Peters' books under lock and key so I had to read one to see what the fuss was all about.
I'm not head over heals in love with sleuth, Vicky Bliss, certainly not comparable to the girl crush I had on Nancy Drew and Linda Craig (she had a palomino horse I soooo coveted) when I was in my formative years, but nonetheless I might just be at the infatuation stage, and could possibly move into an "in a relationship" facebook status with this art historian, brainiac female heroine.My first book was a visit to Germany.
Written in the 70s; hoping for the author to move into the 21st century, which she has, but in the meantime I have a lot of reading to do to catch up with her.Fun read.
After reading the first book, I really can't see why.
The introduction was messy, the pacing was slow, the reasoning for searching for the treasure flimsy and the main character was not someone that anyone could identify with.
I actually wanted to give up about 100 pages in, but decided to push through just to see if Vicky and Co. could actually find the ancient treasure.
Vicky is narcissistic, pushy, cowardly, and egotistical.
As it turned out, i would have much rather read the story of Konstanze and Count Burkhardt.
I doubt I'll be reading another one of these.
Another one of those meh books. This is the second Elizabeth Peters' book that I have read and I can't say that I particularly like either of them primarily because I do not like the protagonist - in this case I found her boring, self-centred and histrionic - and most amazing of all she ended up with both of the heroes liking her. This simply strained my credulity beyond what it was able to bear. Oh well, at least I am borrowing the audiobooks from the library and did not waste time reading them or money buying them.
Once I put the rampant sexism in historical context (still leaving the "I'm not like those other silly girls" to deal with), I was able to enjoy this book a lot more, though I wish it hadn't led with enough of it to almost put me off the book. That would've been a shame, because I actually really enjoyed it overall, historical infodump and all. More treasure hunt than murder mystery, but honestly I like that sort of thing so I was fine with it.
This was a fairly unremarkable mystery/thriller with supernatural trappings. I found Vicky's assertions of toughness and her triumph over the (not just shown to be, but frequently referred to as) male chauvinists fighting with and against her to find an ancient Germanic treasure to be rather self-conscious; the tone of the whole book, actually, is like that. I'm told the series gets much better with the next book, so I will give it a shot, but this volume really didn't do much for me.
This was a re-read and I had the hardest time getting into it. If this had been my first Elizabeth Peters book, I'm not sure I would've read anything else by her. It was just really slow to get started. While it was a bit dated (it was written in 1973) it was still an enjoyable read, just not my favorite book by her. I rarely say this, but I don't recommend starting this series with the first book. The later books are much better.
