https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23093359-the-wicked-the-divine-vol-1
Great art and really cool premise, though it was a bit hard to follow at times. Definitely want to continue on with this comic series, though I'm hoping volume 2 has more world building!
I enjoyed this, but I found it difficult to follow at times and it felt rather undeveloped. I definitely want to continue on with this series, but I can't deny that I wasn't very impressed with this first volume.
5 freaking stars for the artwork!
Because I can!As you can read from the blurb, these gods come back every 90 years to be on Earth for 2 years and then I guess they die or whatever.
This time they come back as pop stars.
We have Laura who is a fangirl and wants to be with them and she befriends Lucifer (Luci) for short.
And she seemed to like Laura, but who ever really knows.
I didn't really like that ending.
I was like .
Once again, amazing artwork to make up for anything else.
This was great! I'm definitely going to pick up the next volume soon because DAMN. THAT ENDING.Also, A+++ for all of the diversity in this comic series.
2.5 starsThe Wicked and the Divine had this special something about it that kept me interested the entire time I was reading it.But once I finished, I was like...that's it?Even now, I'm not sure I read the same book that seems to have captured the hearts of most of my friends.So this one is about gods who show up every so often, live for a few years, and then die.
Of the Reality TV/Pop Star sort...And the story is told through the eyes of a fangirl who inserts herself into the whole mess after getting chosen at a concert.There's a murder, and one of the gods (Lucifer) goes to jail.
11/24/17 - ON SALE for $3.99: http://amzn.to/2hPpteQReviewed by: Rabid ReadsSO. Every ninety years a bunch of gods take over the bodies of a bunch of teenagers to live as pop stars for two years before they die.Riiiiight. B/c gods have nothing better to do than become Taylor Swift. Fame is everything. Worship. Adulation. Whatever, I'm bored. Know what else is boring? They don't use their god-like powers b/c it will scare the puny humans. Is it just me, or are these the lamest gods ever? Except f
Every ninety years a bunch of gods take over the bodies of a bunch of teenagers to live as pop stars for two years before they die.Riiiiight.
B/c gods have nothing better to do than become Taylor Swift.
Know what else is boring?
They don't use their god-like powers b/c it will scare the puny humans.
Is it just me, or are these the lamest gods ever?
Why aren't they always the same gods?
Where do all the other gods go?
1, we still don't know who killed the judge.THE WICKED + THE DIVINE .
Who cares knows?
To be honest, it is pretty confusing at first and it took me 3 chapters to really get into the story and begin to understand the meaning of who the gods (presented) were and why they were there and what was their role.
I’m still not sure what powers and who every god really is, but I nonetheless feel like everything will be more clear when I’ll read the sequel, since, at the end of the story, I felt like it all started to slowly unravel itself.
The first volume didn't go into the very fine details of their existence and their reincarnations and all the hows' and whys' but I'm hoping the later volumes would clear all these questions.This graphic novel contains a lot of characters, most of them are Gods from different religions and folklores.
Gillen has taken on a very intriguing concept which will stay on the readers mind long after reading.The characters, to be specific, the Gods are diverse in this book and now I will try my best to explain what powers they have and which mythologies they originate from.
3.5/5 starsLike most everyone else, I thought the art was beautiful and astounding and fantastic. However, the story was lacking. The general premise is really interesting, but I got confused as to what was actually happening most of the time. The book felt like it was more about introducing the gods than having an actual consistent storyline.BUT I MEAN that ending.
I was honestly underwhelmed because the plot wasn't fully developed.
I also know that first volumes are for world and character building, but this had more of the latter, and nearly none of the former.
First thing that I really liked was the artwork.
The second thing that I liked would be some of the characters.
Some managed to make me wonder if they will make a good comeback in the next volume.2.5/5 stars.
They honestly don't need to work on the artwork and characters anymore, but the plot needs a shit load of work.
Interesting story, but more for millennials than old farts like perhaps. Some of the ideas are good, but the jumps in the story are abrupt and the names of the gods don’t really make a lot of sense with respect to their stories (technically, Lucifer was an angel, not a god for one example). I’ll give Vol 2 a shot but I remain skeptical.
Wow!
This is a really unique and bizarre tale about Gods walking amongst us (seems to be a common literary theme lately).
Because it is so odd, I was only just finally getting the hang of it as I reached the end of volume 1 - a compilation of the first five issues.
If you like:-Graphic novels-Stories with a thin line between the mortal realm and the great unknown-Beautiful people killing each other in gruesome fashion Check this one out!Note on the art: The faces in this graphic novel are amazing - probably the best drawn I have seen in a long while.
The art. The art was amazing. The art was the only thing I liked about this. I'm strongly in the minority here, but I just did not like the story or the characters....
Unfortunately, I am not one of those who did the crazy loving dance after finishing the first volume, but one of those who just doesn't get the appeal at all.Surely, the art is gorgeous, so colorful and full of beautiful details, but the story is thin and superficial.
It is just not good, and the humor is just a bad shadow of what it could really be if it would try a little bit harder, or perhaps in this case, it would try a little less harder to actually feel real and good.I will read the second volume, but only because I own it.
I try and be the better version of me and abandon this series without finishing it if it fails me good enough.
[3.5 Stars]
DNF 70%I don't see myself finishing this anytime soon, the art is breathtaking but I have 0 interest in the story. The concept had potential, but I just can't stand the characters at all, they all sound the same to me.
The art is polished and gorgeous— seriously, the character design alone deserves a medal.
The characters are fantastic enough and the art style gorgeous enough that it makes up for it.Also, three words: pansexual.
girl.
♔ Laura— our arguable protagonist, a human with brown& green hair.
♔ Cassandra— a badass Asian trans girl who...
god knows what she’s doing, honestly.
♔ Minerva— a young god.
♔ Sahkmet— only seen in first♔ Inanna— all we know is he had a fight with Baal.♔ and possibly Tara— an unknown entity who wants too much attentionBlog | Goodreads | Twitter | Youtube
Friends, apparently this is just the week of me hating everyone’s favs, because I honestly did hate this.
I’m sorry, I truly am so sorry.
Trust me, I don’t like hurting anyone’s feelings AND I absolutely hate wasting my time.
But I honestly only liked the diversity in this.
But not even a pansexual lucifer was enough for me to like this.
The full-page art openers of each issue were beautiful, but I didn’t even love the art of the regular panels.
I just, I just really didn’t like this.
I don’t know.
I’m not even going to write a “proper review” for this.
Slick but shallow, self-congratulatory, sterile, ultimately pointless pop-stars-as-gods fantasy, as far as I can tell. I tried twice, but I just can't get into this one. 1.5 stars.
Hmm. A little slow, but I think there’s going to be a lot to set up here in terms of the mythology of the pantheon of these gods, so that’s okay.
Huh. They’re really just going to keep sitting around and talking, aren’t they?
I guess what they’re saying is SORT of interesting, but it’s not particularly witty or funny.
Well, maybe there’s just nothing that’s going to happen here, and I’ll just wrap up issue 5 and…whoa!
4.5 issues to get to an exploding head.
I mean, exploding heads are cool and all, but I can see that in issue 1 of other series.
Me esperaba más teniendo una premisa tan interesante, pero la trama se va perdiendo fuerza según avanza. Los personajes están bien, sin más, con personalidades interesantes y descubriendo los detalles justos para mantener el misterio. Sin embargo, es un misterio perecedero. El dibujo es una maravilla, y aunque partes de la historia resulten un poco más aburridas, disfrutar de los colores y figuras es un placer. La recomiendo para pasar un rato entretenido. Yo en cuanto pueda me haré con la segunda parte para ver cómo evoluciona la trama.
Not that I dislike them, it's just that I don't usually like the artwork very much.
Then I discovered The Wicked + The Divine.The artwork is amazing.
I could browse the issues for hours, just looking at the artwork.This comic deserves five stars just because of its illustrations.The great thing is, the story is pretty fantastic too!
Every 90 years or so, twelve gods incarnate in the bodies of the young.
Urban fantasy, mythology, fantasy, mystery, action… The Wicked + The Divine pretty much has it all.
Fun, fun fun!Brilliant artwork + great, entertaining plot = I am hooked.

Gorgeous art, cool concept, messy text
I read American Gods, it was pretty cool.
All the gods are reality TV stars.
What's weird, though, is I was kinda bored.
Like reality TV, the gods don't do a whole lot.
A few issues in and the uber-modern-and-wishes-it-was-John Hughes-dialog isn't even surprising anymore.
It leaves me feeling blasé, like a John Hughes character.
So I like the ideas of this book, but I borderline hate the characters.
They're kinda flat and cold.
His colors alone seriously make the book worth reading.
And McKelvie and Wilson will continue to prop up a very thin story with okay characters.
This comic was really cool.
It stands apart from every other comic I have ever read.
I loved the Gods and the premise but I just wish that in future volumes there will be more world-building, character backstories and/or character development.
In the future comics I would also love to see a story that is much more concise.
The main reason why I gave this 4 stars is because of the absolutely stunning artwork.
It is so beautiful and the colours are absolutely perfect.
It's different and I'm excited to see where the story goes.
Story = meh. Art = YEAAAAAH. Overall = 3 stars. I'll try the next volume when it comes out though.
This graphic novel was a special snowflake. I think reading the Wicked and the Divine is like befriending that one weird outcast on the playground. It could go amazingly well and you could be BFFs. Or it could go badly and you'd have to awkwardly avoid each other for the rest of time. For me it was more or less the former outcome. I barely registered how incredibly confusing the story was because I was so busy drooling over the STUNNING art. Absolutely beautiful.
▓ Here's the proof that I can LOVE evil characters. ▓✔ Loved the beautiful art✔Loved the characters, especially Lucy, aka Lucifer✔ Loved how mythology was handled and the storyline.✔ Loved the irreverent humorI fucking loved EVERYTHING. Full review to come.
