https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/565359.Far_Eastern_Tales
Διηγήματα προερχόμενα από την ανατολή. Διηγήματα που σε βάζουν αμέσως στο κλίμα. Όλα σχεδόν έχουν να κάνουν με φόνους και τη διελεύκανσή τους. Ιδανικό ανάγνωσμα για καλοκαίρι. Χονολουλού, Σιγκαπούρη, Βόρνεο, Μαλαισία ...
This collection is even steven: half of the time Maugham delivers quite a conventional tale of colonialism, so that you're surprised there is no surprise at the end, given that it's Maugham; the other half, he delivers what could be termed "real zingers", and you smile because that's the Maugham you've come to know and love, the one who makes you see the strop and razor hidden behind the calmness of convention.I like how he upsets the apple carts, just when you least expect it.
Life looks good but then things are never quite what they seem.Ten short stories set in the Far East and Singapore gets the most mentions.
Although the places and activities are way before my time, there is a sense of familiarity to the stories that give them an authentic feel.
The stories are of variable lengths and quality, but certain themes stand out.Maugham seems rather preoccupied with death in its various forms.
from The Razor’s Edge.Maugham also has some issues with marriage.
Στην εισαγωγή ο Μομ ξεκίνησε με υποσχέσεις, λέγοντας πως γράφει για την χαρά της διήγησης.
Εις πείσμα των καιρών του γράφει για την χαρά της διήγησης, πέρα από διδάγματα και βαθύτερα νοήματα.
Πράγμα που έχει διαμορφώσει την μυθοπλασία των Βρετανών και για αυτό τους λατρεύω.Η Ανατολή της Ινδονησίας, της Σιγκαπούρης, των αποικιών ζωντανεύει σε τούτες τις ιστορίες.
Συνήθως από την σκοπία του ταξιδευτή, που ακούει ιστορίες πάνω σε καράβια και μέσα σε κακόφημα μπαρ.
Οι απαιτήσεις μου, όμως, ύστερα από τις υποσχέσεις του Μομ ήταν αυξημένες.
Somerset Maugham creates for me, the atmosphere of tropical Asia, the intriguing stories that have total plausibility and yet each is contained in just one of 10 short stories. Pure craftsmanship.
W. Somerset Maugham has written a lot more than colonial stories, but its these by which he is best remembered.
'Far Eastern Tales' is a compilation of ten stories from the 1920s and 1930s, all set in colonial Malaysia, Singapore and Borneo.
All stories have their merit, yet Maugham is at his best when he evokes a sense of loss, despair and miscommunication.
His portraits of ill-fated marriages are strong and feel very real.
Thus even a crime story like 'Before the Party' is impressive mostly for its deeply tragic content.
It's been my first encounter with Mr Maugham, and I daresay it was such a pleasure, my dear. His elegance and wit took me on a lovely journey into the jungle of human character and the most peculiar life of British colonialists.
I find it difficult to review a book of short stories as there is such a difference between stories and my feelings can vary from story to story, but overall, this is one of the better short story collections that I have read.
They are quite different in terms of subject matter but tend to favour the experiences of British subjects living in the Far East.
One thing that struck me with this book, in contrast to other stories of colonial experiences, is that Maugham seems more positive in his description of the country and the climate than other writers.
It just gets everything perfect in transporting the reader to a spot in time and place that existed only ever so briefly but still stirs the imagination of many a reader.One thing about these stories: nearly all of them seem to be set on a veranda.
Even as I write this, I'm looking out the doorway to my own veranda in the suburbs of Bangkok.) But it's a way of living that is also quickly disappearing, along with high ceilings, and musty rooms with their scorching heat in the dry season and limp humidity in the rainy season.And what of the settings of most of these stories?
The protagonist is called to interpret a letter from the young man in Malaya who has now returned, and informed that he is responsible for the love that the young man and the not so young wife (now widow) fell into since he introduced them.
"Virtue be damned" informs her the protagonist, since it had caused so much grief and a death of a loving husband - if only the wife had quietly had had her affair and finished it the man would still be alive.
Sometimes the heat is so enervating, the descriptions repetitive: blue sky sprinkled with clouds, energetic peopled friendly, unlike Conrad's dark brooding atmosphere. Dated: But the darkies are different from "us whites"; Brits will never understand the subjegated races - a repeated theme; loneliness causes men to take native wives and leave families for wives from "home". Part of the reason I skipped could be also because I'd read these before; plots are memorable but I'd forgotten the ending of the loose-moral Russian woman who takes young lovers but mistook a fresh-faced Scot virgin, or I never finished.
Νουάρ ιστορίες στα νησιά του Ειρηνικού, στις αρχές του προηγούμενου αιώνα. Λεπτομερής αποτύπωση της σχέσης συμβίωσης/ επιβολής του Βρετανικού αποικιοκρατικού κόσμου στις τοπικές κοινωνίες των νησιών του Ειρηνικού, μέσα από μικρά διηγήματα- ανθρώπινες ιστορίες πόνου, φθόνου και μένους. Μικρές ιστορίες για μικρούς ανθρώπους. Καθηλωτική αφήγηση, με μια εσάνς αστυνομικού μυθιστορήματος. Καταπληκτικό βιβλίο!
Maugham’s tales about British gentry living and working overseas waxes and wanes with Twilight Zone-esque quirk or Hitchcockian tongue-in-cheek. short, droll stories that shed some insight on 19th century British character and colonialism itself. many also skewer them outright. i picture Maugham writing these with a wry smirk.
In the audiobook, this collection of tales about British colonial life in Asia is conjured vividly to life by the wonderful Robert Powell. Fair warning: the book must be read as a product of its time (as this was originally written in the 30's) as depictions of the indigenous Asian people who populate the story are orientalist and frequently xenophobic.
Maugham is a superb storyteller, and as this fine collection of his short stories shows, he is as deft with the pen as a master painter with the brush. While I read colonial fiction mainly for the descriptions of historic scenes both natural and man made, it is the characters and their drama where the author truly excels at creating - the tension often so thick you can cut it with a knife.
Τα διηγήματα δεν είναι κακογραμμένα, αλλά δεν είναι και καλογραμμένα. Εκτός ίσως από τον Μάκιντο, που το θεώρησα το καλύτερο της συλλογής, οι υπόλοιπες ιστορίες δεν έχουν τίποτα το εξαιρετικό είτε υφολογικά είτε όσον αφορά την υπόθεση. Το βιβλίο είναι αυτό που λέμε "για παραλία", αδιάφορο, χωρίς απαιτήσεις, χρησιμοποιεί τις -τότε-συνηθισμένες αφηγηματικές "εκπλήξεις" (για παράδειγμα τη συνηθισμένη για την εποχή διήγηση μέσα στη διήγηση), χωρίς τίποτα το καινοτόμο στο ύφος ή στο νόημα. Δεν θα το πρότεινα, εκτός κι αν κάποιος ενδιαφέρεται ιδιαίτερα για τις αποικιοκρατικές ιστορίες. Η μετάφραση καλή.
Wonderful vignettes of human trials and tribulations in the now vanished world of Empire.
Their relationship became known to the husband and trouble begun.The whole story is told from the perspective of a couple, Jean and Arthur Low, who happened to receive the belongings of the white man who had died in the jungle, with an unexpected piece of expensive cigarette case, which seemed odd when we consider the absolute poverty in which the man had died.His name was Jack Almond and he had committed a kind of self-sacrifice in the name of love.
A remarkable collection of short stories.
Maugham's characters live according to the values that kept the British Empire going; rigid class distinctions, casual racism, priggishness, an acute awareness of social status, pseudo-virtue.
Whereas a writer such as Saki openly mocked these values, Maugham is more subtle.
Maugham's supernatural tales (he wrote quite a few) are generally encountered in anthologies devoted entirely to weird fiction.
It turns out that they are even more powerful in a collection such as this, where they alternate with the much more 'straightforward' pieces and where, as a consequence, they seem even more uncanny and startling.
I loved these brilliant, atmospheric stories set in South East Asia during British colonial rule.Somerset Maugham transports us to the jungle, the lonely plantation house, the resident’s bungalow, the club, the hotel verandah where sunburnt white men in long chairs are drinking gin slings and stengahs, the deck of steamers plying the South China Sea, the kampong, the polo ground, etc. etc.Against this tropical backdrop Maugham’s totally believable characters convincingly play out their human dramas (or comedy as in the forgettable “Mable”).
Maugham is one of my favourite authors; his books provide such a deep insight into the intricacies of human relationships; so far I have not found another author who could read so deep into the human character and soul.And he could write well too; a lucid and vivid style one cannot expect from modern writers today.Door of Opportunity - An adoring wife found out about her husband's cowardice from the way he dealt with a riot staged by Chinese workers.
This is my favourite story so far.
Will write more soon.
Short stories set mostly in British Malaya and Singapore (or Federated Malay States) between WWs I and II. Entertaining stories in their own right, in the old-fashioned narrative style, but most interesting to me were the descriptions of the lives of the colonials -- their disputes, affairs, relations with and prejudices against natives and each other, their travels by sea, river, and rail (both in and to and from the region) -- in various settings: upriver Borneo jungles, Singapore alleys, Malay kompongs, plantations, district offices and residences, social and leisure clubs, etc. Picked it up at a recent book sale.
"There is no place in Malaya that has more charm than Tanah Merah." I found this opening sentence of the first story, Footprints in the Jungle, very gripping and I was immediately hooked.
Maugham's use of language is beautiful, evocative and lyrical and none of the stories disappoint.
Predominantly focused on British people, their way of living was so different from the way that I live (even as an expat) it was like reading about a different culture.
Great changes appear to have happened since this time and the issues of class and race sometimes made for uncomfortable reading.
Great compilation of quick reads. A perfect bath book, with the delicious familiar pattern of tales that you likely know the ending of from the very beginning. I would be cautious, however, to call them "insightful" as Maugham reflects racist attitudes and completely "others" the people of the "third world". His narration is one of the colonist, which depicts a misrepresented world of danger and mystery. However, the narration itself is engaging as long there is recognition of this racist "othering".
Interesting portrait of colonial life in Malaysia, a general theme of hot, sweaty, alcoholic misery and loneliness in the jungle. The language and attitudes are those of Maugham's time, which can be difficult to digest today, while his writing lacks the charm and sparkle of his contemporaries. I found that the stories were not altogether *that* good. Intriguing yes, but the conclusions often disappointing.
This book is an easy to read collection of short stories about colonial life in the Far East in the early 20th century. I like the imagery the author creates, but the stories all have depressing endings.
in short story its very rarevthwt I like alk stories in the compilation. this is one of the rare occasion.I find that the stories here are witty and easy to read. love the ironic twist that he added into each story
Very poignant collection of stories. By today's standards, some of the themes and punchlines may toe the line of political correctness, given the colonial tone; but the human stories carry through with force.
These were well written and sharply observed - and the stories generally nice bite-sized chunks for a night or two's reading.
A mixed bag of short stories. The Buried Talent is excellent – well written and moving. The Door of Opportunity and Mr. Know-All are also worth reading, the other stories are forgettable.
