https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/847581.I_Juan_de_Pareja
**3.5 stars**Juan de Pareja's portrait by Velázquez is my favorite painting (every time I see it, it makes me cry) so it was with trepidation and excitement that I started this audio.The book follows the story of Juan de Pareja and his life as the slave of Diego de Velázquez, the leading painter in the court of King Philip IV of Spain.
Both are masterpieces of a slave and a king painted around the same time and when you look at them, you feel like you know the real person (to me Juan looks the better person of the two; the Pope looks the type to stab people in the back.
I gave this book 5 stars for several reasons.
Finally, after reading this book I was aching to know more.
Obviously, as a children's historical fiction book, the author could not lay out all the details of the painters' lives (what little is known about them, anyway.) But I want to study that time period in Spain and learn more about their customs.
I want to learn more about Catholicism and the meaning behind the Rosary and some of the religious implications of the book.
It's a well-written, quick reading book.
I liked that it was told in the narration of the slave Juan de Pareja.
Pareja meets good people that want to help him throughout his life journey.
Juan has a good heart and loves his Master and Mistress, which turn out to be a blessing to him bc they are good hearted people that actually treat him well almost like a family member, an equal.
The author has done a good job of giving Juan a life, esp since now I am interested in someone (2 someones) I knew nothing about which is the point I believe.
I enjoy books about real people from long ago, though there is often not enough info to create a biography. This book is from a perspective of a black slave of Diego Velazquez. While Velazquez' paintings are not as luminescent as those I remember seeing while reading "Girl With a Pearl Earring" about Vermeer, I thought the characters created were admirable and worth learning about. Because they were both historical fiction from the perspective of the servant of famous painters, I couldn't help comparing the books to each other and I felt less haunted reading this one!
An excellent book for young readers, with the caveat that Borton's vocabulary will challenge many.This is fiction, not biography. Told first person through Juan's eyes, this story of himself and the seventeenth century Spanish painter Diego Velazquez develops in a warm and realistic manner. It betrays it 1965 origin by not sufficiently projecting then current American attitudes toward race and slavery unto its main characters. Yet, in her way, Borton does not deny or misrepresent. The book's Newberry Medal was well deserved.A good read.
An autobiographical fiction that read so vividly that I felt as if I was there and liked this 17th century setting.
I felt honored getting to know the wonderful Spaniard painter, Diego Rodríguez de Silva y Velázquez, and his slave, Juan de Pareja.
What a thrill it was to be privy to such a look into a story of respect and friendship and not about slavery as one may imagine this might be about.
Simply, this story made me happy.
I was young, and young hearts cannot always be sad.” pg76“Lately I added a prayer for Miri, too.
I love Master and Mistress.” pg 126Jinky is Reading
This is juvenile historical fiction about Diego Velazquez (the painter) and his slave, Juan de Pareja.
I love reading stories about real people and events to the kids, even if they are fictionalized, because then we can look at the real deal afterwards on the internet; in this case, the real paintings of Velazquez and Pareja.
They are old enough to understand that the people were real, but the dialogue was created.
It is a Newbery winner, and a wonderful read to expand their repertoire beyond graphic novels, Disney princesses, and cartoon characters in their underpants.
"The first half of the seventeenth century was brilliant with names that still shine with the luster of courage, art, science, and glory...Rubens and Van Dyke were painting in the Low Countries: Galileo, Newton, and Harvey were contributing scientific knowledge that would turn conceptions of the material world into new channels.." (from Elizabeth Borton de Trevino's forward) So along comes Juan de Pareja, a humble, sometimes mistreated slave who changes masters and cities of residence until finally he begins working for an artist who appreciates him as a person, a real individual with an interest in life, painting, and who understands that Juan eventually hopes to be a free man.
That said, I love this quotation at the time from the Hornbook: “Many paths of interest lead from this original, beautifully written story.” I believe that thoughtful, young readers of today would also appreciate Juan's story.Some of the paths to which the Hornbook refers include art, painting, the history and creation of pigments in paint, and society in the 17th century, as well as friendship, kindness, fidelity, and passion for the art of painting.
The book sent me to the Internet to read more about Velasquez, the Baroque period, and to see his paintings that the book describes.I, Juan de Pareja reminded me of Amos Fortune, Free Man. Both men were slaves who were extremely fortunate to escape slavery and many of its horrors.
I, an older reader, was definitely enriched by reading I, Juan de Pareja.
Juan survives an arduous trip to Madrid and matures into an invaluable assistant to Velazquez who is already a well-established painter.
"The painter must unmix them and lay them on again shade by shade, and then the eye of the beholder takes over and mixes them again." Juan learns to grind colors, build frames and stretch linens, and, after several years, accompanies Velazquez to the Spanish Court and eventually to Italy and the Vatican.
Unfortunately, historical fiction seems to have really fallen out of favor with the readers of today.
In historical fiction, often the action is much more subtle, and for the less accomplished reader, there is not as much to draw them in.This story, though fictionalized, is based on the life of Juan de Pareja, who was a slave in the household of Diego Velazquez, official painter of the Spanish court in the 17th century.
Then we continue with Juan through his many years of service to the painter, in which he becomes an accomplished artist in his own right, earns his freedom, and eventually finds love.Beautifully written, and very obviously a labor of love for the author.

Newbery Medal Winner--1966This started off slow, but by the end I was surprisingly emotionally invested in Juan, his kind master Diego, and their families. The fact that this is based on real people (though little is actually known about their lives other than their names and that they were painters, along with a few other tidbits included in the story) made it even more interesting. I think I would have enjoyed it more had there been more dialogue, but it's told like an autobiography so there's lots of narration.
Careful research yields authentic 17th century detail as Trevnio recreates the Baroque court of Spain, from the viewpoint of the royal painter, Diego Velasquez, and his faithful Black slave, Juan de Pareja.
Juan disovers that he also possesses artistic talents and ambitions, but in Baroque Spain it was illegal for a slave to practice any form of art.
During this partial biography of the great court painter, Velasquez, we meet two other famous artists who visited the master: Rubens and Murillo.
As Juan travels in Italy with his famous Master, he receives conflicting impressions of Italians and their artistic style.
I don't know that I've ever read a book about a slave in which the slave is depicted as in non-rebellion with his slave-status, yet not in an apathetic, I don't care type of fashion, but in a "God knows and directs" feeling.
Anyway, whether or not the book is very true to history or your personal feelings, what I liked was Juan's character.
"I knelt a long time, for I had much to offer up to God, and I placed before Him countless thoughts, so that He might winnow them like a thresher, leaving me the wheat and blowing away the chaff with a breath of His mercy." (138)Why would I say this book was unexpected?
There was not a lot that actually happened, and the time span of decades made it difficult to connect with the characters sometimes.Perhaps it was the fault of the audiobook narrator at times, but in general I felt that Juan's "voice" did not change over time.
His wife gets to have a brief voice in talking about how much she hates and despises slavery and the idea of being owned by another person, but Juan himself really doesn't care very much outside of the fact that it keeps him from producing his own art.
But they were foreign to me, and they did not remain with me, as things seen in a dream do not stay long in the conscious memory.""For some time I resented the meticulous way Master painted these deformed and pathetic beings.
But later, when I looked at those portraits years after, I saw what he had done, and what glossing over their deformities could not have achieved.
I'm like, "Are we ever going to get to a point where you grow up?!" I guess not ...Also, major time-skips that were confusing and led to having no idea what year we were in, let alone how old the main character was, etc.On the other hand, it was wonderful to see Velasquez from a new point of view.
King Philip (of Spain), Velasquez's family, and all the other characters (except maybe Juan himself) were portrayed very vividly.
The idea itself was interesting, and I admit that Velasquez's life was pretty fascinating ...
slow at times, but overall a good read if you're interested in this time period (which I am to a certain extent ...
This is the story of a slave, Juan de Pareja, who comes into the household of the great painter and becomes a student of painting, albeit in secret because slaves were not allowed to engage in artistic endeavors.
The book covers many years and includes several trips to other countries, like Italy where the master painter was commissioned to paint the portrait of the pope.
It's largely the observations of Juan as he makes his way through this life but his position with the master painter is a very positive one, even though he is a slave.It is a well-told tale, filled with feeling and very appropriate for use in a home-schooling environment or simply for pleasurable reading.
I don't have a lot to say about this story; many of the details have been lost in the months since I read it.
I love the painting of Juan de Pareja.
It's warm and intimate and seems to reveal a gentleness about the subject ...
and possibly the relationship between painter and subject.
2. Despite the feelings the painting evokes, there is little to nothing known about the actual relationship between Pareja and Velasquez.
Several times while reading this story, I felt that the author perhaps romanticized their bond too much.
Even if Juan was treated well, he was still a slave.
I love books based on historical events, but I always struggle with how "true" the stories are. This is an engaging and well-written book, and my favourite part is the afterword by the author, in which she tells you exactly what is true and what isn't. I was able to satisfy my curiosity by exploring further and examining paintings, which was really interesting.
Engaging characters and a fast moving story - informative, too.
Just beautiful. Probably my favorite book I've read this year, in large part because it delves unsentimentally but gorgeously into two things I love: art and faith.
This is a fictionalize story of Juan de Pareja, the slave assistant to the Spanish painter Diego Velazquez. The 11-year-old and I read this to complement our Age of Enlightenment history lesson. It was a very good read. I wonder, though, how much of it is true and am concerned it is a romantized version of a slave-master narrative. Velazquez's portrait of de Pareja is stunning, and I'd like to believe they had a very kind and loving companionship.
The only thing that would've made reading this even more enjoyable is if I had a little kid to read this aloud to. Fun kids'book!
A Spanish black slave that gets bequeathed from one Master to the next until he arrives and Diego Velázquez, the famous painter, and becomes his assistant and ultimately, friend.
Together, these two artists, one publicly famous and one hidden, will share their story and hardships, their triumphs and their faults.
Wonderful story for all to read.
My audience ranged from 14 down to 5 and while they admit they were unsure at first about the story, they grew to love them all so much and were glad to have read it.
Problematic for a rosy spin on slavery.
An interesting historical read, not necessarily recommended for modern children because of the positive spin on slavery.
Otherwise, it is well written and a fascinating if fictionalized piece of art history as the people in the book are real people.
Unfortunately, not many facts are known, so this is a book with a couple facts and a whole lot of imaginings and embellishments.
I was really stuck on what to rate this, I don't recommend it for young readers, but, if you enjoy reading fictionalized art history you may enjoy this anyways despite the problematic attitudes.
I don't know if I would know these painters better if I was more familiar with art history, but I found this speculative work about their lives to be very good.
Although the Newbery has been criticized for overemphasizing cultural diversity (sometimes over good writing) this book is deserving of the award for how well it tells this story, even if the prose itself is not all that stellar.
Lastly, I have seen two different covers to get his book and, unfortunately for a book depecting the lives of influential painters, the artwork gracing the covers does not do the subjects real-world work justice, nor do they make the book all that appealing to anyone likely to judge the book by its cover.
This Newbery winner from 1966 is the true story of the Spanish painter Velazquez and his black slave, Juan de Pareja.
The first half of the book moved slowly and had little dialogue.
But the second half came together as Pajera’s life began to have more definition and interest.
It is reminiscent of the book “Amos Fortune, Free Man.” Both books retell true stories with some literary license used.
At the end, I could appreciate the Newbery committee selecting a book such as this to create a well rounded list of winners instead of a more homogenous collection.
When the great Velázquez was painting his masterpieces at the Spanish court in the seventeenth century, his colors were expertly mixed and his canvases carefully prepared by his slave, Juan de Pareja.
When Velázquez discovers that he and Juan share a love for the art which is his very life, the painter proves his friendship in the most incredible fashion, for in those days it was forbidden by law for slaves to learn or practice the arts.
Through the hardships of voyages to Italy, through the illnesses of Velázquez, Juan de Pareja loyally serves until the death of the painter in 1660.
