https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/117710.Raptor_Red
This book is about a female Utahraptor, the second most famous dinosaurian meat-eater. If that doesn't convince you to read it I don't know what will. I knew from reading the foreword that this book would become one of my favorite reads of the year. I jest, of course. It's not THAT kind of book.   This book is the story of Utahraptor, told through the experiences of an individual raptor, a young adult female. Her story is pieced together from the fossil remains of Utahraptor and from clues about
This book is about a female Utahraptor, the second most famous dinosaurian meat-eater.
If that doesn't convince you to read it I don't know what will.
This book is the story of Utahraptor, told through the experiences of an individual raptor, a young adult female.
Considered by many to be one of the best dinosaur novels ever, the epic story follows the adventures of a young female Utahraptor during the Cretaceous Period.
Animals featured in the book :Utahraptor
Reading this book was an educational and entertaining experience.
I've learned so much about the various species of dinosaurs and other extinct animals.
The flying reptile, lives much longer than dinosaurs, for some unknown reason, he has chosen Raptor Red as a sort of pet, showing where dead meat is, warning of dangerous predators nearby, for years, besides he can eat the leftovers, his weak beak not able to cut open a dead animal's hide...A nice surprise, Raptor Red finds her long -lost sister, taking care of her three, fast- growing, but always rambunctious, hungry chicks, now it will be much easier to hunt, the pair together are very successful.
You've heard the rule for writers: only steal from the best? Bakker obviously knows it. Naturally he knows everything about dinosaurs and uses all that knowledge in this novel. But, aware of his limitations, he stole a plot engine and stuffed it under the hood. Yes, it's PRIDE & PREJUDICE, with velociraptors! It's a hoot to read this, with that in mind. Every fan of Austen should pick this up.
I had been wanting to read this book for quite some time.
Loved this story.
It was sad, it was happy, it was interesting.
I liked how the author got into the dinosaur's brain like he did.
I became quite fond of Raptor Red. I did find the story ended somewhat abruptly, though.
It was quite an adventurous life.I've had pet lizards before and I've often wondered what a dinosaur society would be like, even though I know that now we think they were not cold-blooded and had some feathers.I would be interested in reading more books along these lines, if anyone knows of any.
Finally, a dino book with the dinos as the main characters and not a human in sight. The descriptions of raptor social structure (and the world itself) are so real they must be true. After reading this it seems impossible for dinosaurs to have behaved in any way other than what Bakker describes. I felt like I was watching a documentary with running commentary from an omniscient narrator, and this is much better than interrupting a dinosaur’s thoughts with human interjection. National Geographic couldn’t have done any better presenting the world of the Utahraptor.
From the look of the jagged title font and gloomy-looking shadows on the front cover you might think that this book is a thriller or horror, but actually it's a book that features a dinosaur as the main character, giving readers a dramatized view of what life as one of these large reptiles was probably like at the time when tyrannosaurus rexes and raptors ruled the earth.
But what makes this my favorite audio book is for the use of sound effects and music, perfectly accompanied with the story line.
This audio book is also very short (only about 3 hours!) which makes it a really quick listening (and trust me, you wanna keep listening).I can’t really find any faults.
So I did not really expect much from Raptor Red. But oh no, this story following a Utahraptor was so much more emotional and enjoyable for me and I’m so happy for that.So I would recommend everyone to listen to the audio book.
One of my favorite novels! My parents gave me this book when I was younger, and I admit that I cried the first time I read it and Red went through all her troubles. I'm generally not a fan of anthropomorphizing animals, but when the animal has been extinct for millions of years I don't suppose anyone really gives a fuck.The narrative is engaging, really--not like a lecture which is as dry as the bones it's discussing.
Second read; it's really that interesting, so much information on so many creatures, not just raptors.
But I have to admit that it's not 100% a page-turner...
for some reason I was finding it soothing and kept falling asleep, so it took me several days to read.
Any reader who isn't afraid of vocabulary & science, age 9 up, can enjoy this.
And I do recommend it to children because it does a good job of encouraging the reader to think about such issues as 'what would you do to protect your family' and the fact that the predator is the one we're rooting for.
In Raptor Red, Robert Bakker brings Utahraptors to life, not as killing machines, but as genuine characters that feel and think.
This book had me feeling all sorts of things, from sympathy when something drastic happened to our heroine, Raptor Red, to happiness when something in her life turned for the better.
Being the picky reader that I am, I was pleasantly surprised with Robert Bakker's Raptor Red. Although I read this book while ago, it has always stuck with me and I find myself thinking about it every now and then.
A consistently underrated, forgotten classic with an extremely unique point-of-view.
I loved how realistic it made dinosaurs, how personal the view into Red's life became.
The same struggles we deal with, the death of a loved one, illness and danger, family bonds, are shown to us through her eyes, broken down from their cultural definitions into something simple and pure - science.
It is an amazing study in point-of-view and the power of prose without dialog.
The main character is 65 million years dead, and yet Red became my best friend and I rooted for her as much as I ever did human literary characters.
Red continues searching for a new mate, despite her sister's even greater reluctance to have a non family member near the chicks.
In a way, it is a very simple story: Animals try to survive in a harsh world.
It must be a difficult trick in writing from an animal's point of view: give an insight to their actions, but don't humanize them to the point that they feel like a Disney cartoon creature.
Maybe some leeway can be given with raptors, as they may have been one of the most intelligent creatures to live before humans.
It's awesome how Bakker is able to almost humanize the animals in this book and make you feel genuine empathy for them while also making sure you understand that nature can be cruel sometimes and animals do things to survive and because they need to do them.
While reading the book, I could imagine all of this actually happening during this time period.
Reads like watching a dinosaur/prehistoric documentary with Bakker being the narrator.
I liked how there's no dialogue in the book, it felt like Bakker was able to get into the minds of these ancient creatures and translate their thoughts for us on the pages.
Pleasantly surprised with this book!I originally bought it from a secondhand store because it sounded so weird that I couldn't pass it up.
I mean, really, a book written from a dinosaur's perspective?
As weird as it sounds though, it was actually very entertaining, and even managed to invoke some emotion.The book is written by the world famous paleontologist, Robert T.
The two things that drive her in the story are food, which she needs to survive, and love (both from mates and family), which maybe not surprisingly, is more important than the food itself at points.
This was a cool book. It's the story of a utahraptor but it's also a book of science talking about a wide-range of dinosaurs from the Cretaceous period. It does take a little getting used to at first, especially if you're not familiar with some of the creatures. (I had to look a few up so I would have a good mental picture.)You can tell the author is knowledgeable in his field, and I learned a lot about raptor behavior and life during that period from reading this. If you like books about animals, you might like this one.
This book was fantastic!I loved how the author usedsuch a unique approach when writing this book. I mean come on how often does a person come by a book that is written from a raptor's point of view?It was heart warming and touching in a lot of parts and other parts served as a reminder of how cruel the world can be and how it has been in the eons before us.I recommend this to everyone. It will surprise you.
Raptor Red Not a review. Just a note about how much I enjoyed this.  It was a prehistoric romance, about a Utahraptor and the world around her. It was a pure joy to read. Full of science and beautiful descriptions. I am in love with this book.
This book is everything to me.
Textbook authors take note, Bakker effortlessly conveys an enormous amount of information within these pages.
As he discussed in Why Video Games Are Good for Your Soul: Pleasure and Learning, playing immersive video games blends the player with the virtual character; they are joint actors in a virtual world.
This construct opens up enormous possibilities for learning, because the student is "living" the experience rather than just studying it.
Studies have also shown that when a learner is having fun, is engaged, retention is significantly higher.
The ability of Bakker to transform his obviously extensive knowledge of dinosaurs into a compelling narrative is truly impressive.
The only thing keeping me from giving this 5 stars is the loud and annoying background music that kept drowning out the narrator during ALL of the climactic parts of the story.I guess that I'll have to read the actual book to find out what I missed ... which won't be a problem because I really enjoyed this story.
This book combines a beautiful knowledge of the Cretaceous period with the witty humour and language of the author. Very detailed when describing dinosaurs, scenes etc.
This was probably my favourite book in grade four, but I was an odd child.Haven't reread.
Books&Chai Series: 6 Reasons I Fell in Love with Raptor Red by Robert T. Bakker Introduction to the BookMy friends already know how crazy I am when it comes to fiction based on dinosaurs. I have been known to wax poetic about such books.In this book, however, Bakker takes facts about dinosaur life and weaves them into a story. So, it is like reading fictionalized non-fiction!Introduction to the ChaiNow that you have had your book intro, let me proceed by introducing you to another series of
Books&Chai Series: 6 Reasons I Fell in Love with Raptor Red by Robert T.
I have been known to wax poetic about such books.In this book, however, Bakker takes facts about dinosaur life and weaves them into a story.
The more unlikely it seems that the author might be able to create humorous situations (say, like in a book from a bloodthirsty monster's POV), the more I appreciate it!I found the two examples from Raptor Red funny as heck!The Sciency BitsYou can't have a good fact-based book without some science in it.
It’s a great example of what paleontology, as a science, can offer society because Baker puts so much detail into the novel that it almost feels like you have been transported back in time to a world that was almost alien and this reflects one major goal of Paleontologists – recreating the ancient world as it was.
This book details the lives of a pack of raptors, called Utahraptors (a giant species of raptor dug up by amateur fossil hunter, Bob Gaston in 1992) that lived in the Cretaceous Age in what is now Utah This is an intelligently written book which seems to accomplish the impossible by combining the genres of science and adventure to produce entertaining knowledge.I discovered this book while scanning a reddit IAmA listing to see the upcoming Q/A events.
Dr. Bakker often talks about the necessity of play in any intelligent species, something that I had never considered.
Bakker's Raptor Red. Recommended by Becky2844 & Grrlbrarian over at the SDMB - I added it to Mount ToBeRead sometime in the past year and finally dove in.The novel follows a year in the life of a female dinosaur (specifically Utahraptor) in the plains and mountains of what will eventually become Utah.
Bakker's background in archaeology is very evident, but the info dumps are very well-handled; you're learning a great deal about these creatures, but it's not a chore.
Bakker does anthropomorphize the characters, but with some solid scientific background justifying it.
To show what life was like during the Cretaceous, Bakker follows one dinosaur - a Utahraptor he calls Raptor Red. While he speaks of one family making the walk from Asia, across the ice bridge to Greenland and then Eastern Canada and down to the US West - species, sure - that's what happened; one lifetime?
He uses Red to introduce us to several types of Raptors and lots of herbivore dinosaurs as well as to the birds, reptiles, fish and aquatic animals and earliest mammals alive at the time.
The majority of the book is written from the point of view of Raptor Red, a five year-old female velociraptor who lived in prehistoric Utah.
However, in some chapters the narrative switches.
We share a chapter with a prehistoric turtle about to lay her eggs, a prehistoric rodent whose burrow gets trampled by large dinos battling above, and a wise pterodactyl who bemusedly observes it all.
Using what he knows of these animals' anatomies, the author puts together a captivating storyline featuring Raptor Red and her family.
You too will find yourself rooting for Raptor Red, and thanking heaven that the timelines of our species never overlapped ...
Raptor Red is like the documentary Walking with Dinosaurs in book form.
If that sounds interesting to you, read Raptor Red.Of course, Bakker has to anthropomorphize Raptor Red and a few other animals.
I invested heavily in Raptor Red. I cared about her safety, hunger, and loneliness.
I liked her personality.
My suspension of disbelief broke when Raptor Red imagined dinosaur angels, but otherwise I was impressed by the level of detail and insight on display.I enjoyed Raptor Red from beginning to end.
It was a quick read, and it was not quite like anything else I have ever read.
By far one of my favourite books ever, really felt for Raptor Red through out the story and the author brings his unique palaeontological views into the book with him.
I have to admit that through reading the epilogue, I started to feel like maybe his views of the Dinosaurs behaviour and various extinctions makes complete perfect sense.
The way Bakker ends the book leaves me unable to look at a bird of prey the same way, most of all the Golden Eagle.I highly recommend this book if Dinosaurs are of any interest to you as it is certainly cleverly wrote and such a hidden gem for me at the very least, so glad that I found it and looking forward to reading his Non-Fiction book - The Dinosaur Heresies
