https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6328784-cabin-fever
Bud used to be a cowboy but when we first meet him he is a driver/mechanic and has been married for a year to Marie, one of the passengers he once drove into the mountains.
But meanwhile Marie decided she would teach Bud a lesson: she packed up and took the baby to her mother's house, in secret hopes (according to Bower) that Bud would go there and apologize.
We follow Bud on his adventures into the desert, where he meets up with an old prospector and learns about mining for gold.
I've only read one other B.M. Bower novel, which I thought was OK, but didn't "wow" me.
It's not a romance, well not really, and the characters are so well written that they just suck you right into their lives, and make you care about them.
I just love it when I am reading along, and the way a sentence is worded makes me stop and re-read it, just to enjoy how it is written.
I'll be reading more of her novels for sure.
Well, at first things go wrong, but with the turn of events, it all turns out wonderfully well.The story is much like a fairy tale, I dare argue, with the cabin fever as its villain.I loved the characters which were very human and quite detailed.
The writing style also complimented the characters' personalities with common details which often were comical, because they sparked recognition.
Also, the passages with Lovin Child and Bud were adorable!There were some less interesting chapters too, in which detailed, but boring information was given about Bud's wandering "adventure".
Old-fashioned, but entertaining, with a twist I didn’t see coming.
First book I've read by B.M Bower but I'm hooked. I really enjoyed Cabin Fever. Some really interesting twists and good character development.
I enjoyed but not necessarily loved this book. The ending was one that I did not see coming. When a writer can pull that off, I respect how well the book was crafted.
Do not understand how this gets to be packaged as one of 50 masterpieces you have to read before you die. It was pleasant enough but on the twee side to me.
Overall a nice little tale about a young couple in 1918 who experienced an unrecognized bout of cabin fever.
The travels of the young man who took to the road went through some surprising and interesting twists and turns.
The surprise ending was a nice touch, by the author.
A few times the descriptions of the events unfolding became just a tad too long, but not so as to diminish the tale.
Another author totally unknown to me who proved very skillful at her craft.
I especially liked the information about prospecting for gold.
It was both informative and intriguing.
I think I would have liked to do that.
This was an interesting story about a man who quarrels with his young wife and goes out into the world to try to forget her. He runs across jewel thieves and, after craftily turning them in to the police, throws his lot in with a prospector. He tries his best to ignore all thoughts of his abandoned wife, but the effort leads him into bad habits and an urge to drink. Then, one day, he finds a child who has been stolen by an Indian squaw and takes him in. How will the child's presence change the two hardened men?
My sister-in-law, who's book recommendations have always proved fruitful in the past, just lent this 1944 edition to me~~I'll rate it when completed! Ok, it's a delightful read, with a surprising little twist at the end to leave you feeling "happily-ever-after." I'm not a fan, usually, of this period, but still--enjoyed it enough to recommend!
Different from what I expected. Good western with good character development. The pace was slow and much of it bogged down a bit, but some of that was to develop the character personalities. I would probably have given it three stars until it came together at the end with a totally unexpected conclusion.I'd recommend it.
Lovely story, the characters are so well written not to mention the author has such a wonderful way with words... captured the human condition perfectly.When I first started reading I thought B.M Bower was a man and marveled at how well he knew the mind of a woman. Now that I've just found out he's a she I'm marveling at how well she knows the mind of both!
B. M. Bower wrote a lot of books. This one is one of her earliest (1918). It is worth reading if only for the glimpse of life in a certain part of the United States a hundred years ago.
Loved the surprise ending. Delightful glimpse into that era.
What a little gem!
Giving this a five just for the freakin' ending. I screamed and John thought I had seen a spider.
