https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/237346.The_Color_Kittens
The little kittens were so happy with all the colors they had made that they began to paint everything around them. They painted . . . Green leavesand red berries. and purple flowersand pink cherries. Red tablesand yellow chairs. Black treeswith golden pears.
How I loved this story...it's the tale of two kittens, Hush and Brush.
Written by Margaret Wise Brown, the poet laureate of children's literature, THE COLOR KITTENS is lovely and lyrical.
I'm thrilled that Golden Books reissued this classic with the original illustrations by Alice and Martin Provensen -- looking at these pictures again, I'm tempted to get a tattoo of one of them.
Wouldn't Gram be proud!This book made such a deep impression on me that I always vowed to read it to my own children.
Anyway, I think THE COLOR KITTENS is a fantastic book, no matter what Simone thinks.
Screw Goodnight Moon. THIS is Margaret Wise Brown's best children's book. The poetry is clever enough to teach children new words, the drawings are awesome, and how can you possibly go wrong with a story about two cats mixing paint colors? At least there aren't any freaky bunnies in footsie pajamas in this one.
This was one of my favorite books when I'd learned to read at the age of four.
I had this on record, with the little booklet, and I can still remember the little "meow" that told you when to turn the page.
A fun yet older book that helps young children in getting to learn more about colors while giving them a chance to enjoy the capers of two little kittens.
Keeping to the colorful scheme, the reader is then taken on a fun imaginative trip to explore the type of dreams that only color kittens can have.
All in all this is a fun and easy way to start learning about some of the secondary colors that are predominantly enjoyed.
Ember's illustrations are weird. Generally creepy, but the green jazzy cat dancing with the pink French poodle is brill, and the Easter eggs dancing around the tree is a crazy dream. Parts of the story are wonderful, but parts are odd. Why do the kittens dream the same dreams? The versed parts of the text are MWB at her best. I know I've seen the Provensen art at one time, but it wasn't all that memorable to me. From a 'fine art' pov, I believe this the superior. The other is probably more kid-friendly, though.
2 little kittens paint everything in the world, but are confused how to make certain colors. Explains how different colors combine to make new ones (blue + yellow = green, etc).
Os Gatinhos PintoresEsta maravilha de todas as cores encheu muitos momentos da minha infância de grande ilusão e beleza!Os Gatinhos não sabiam que misturas de cores produziam outras cores, por isso o livro é totalmente pedagógico, ensinando visualmente às crianças que cores devem misturar para obter rosa, violeta, verde, castanho, etc…A maravilha de imaginação e de sensibilidade deste livrinho é incrível… Não podia digitalizá-lo todo, mas quase tive vontade disso.Aconselho vivamente quem tenha filhos ou netos pequenos que procure este tipo de livros sonhadores e belos… Ainda hoje deixam saudades…
The kids and I read this last night for story time. I thought the story felt a little young for them (Boy 9, Girl 7) but they both enjoyed it and they both said to give it 5+++++ stars. It is a cute story of two kittens named Brush and Hush who are trying to make green paint and go through many different color combinations before they get to green. The illustrations are colorful and add to the story.
I like this book. Everything is out of proportion and weird. I don't want to give away the ending, but it's pretty cool when the kittens mix all the colors together. I was really hoping for a rainbow...but it was something else.My favorite page is the one where people live on islands and have houses only big enough to shelter their loaves of bread.
selain ceritanya, suka sekali dg ilustrasinya.. dg warna-warna cerah yang lembut, spirit ceria dan optimis yang menggambarkan dunia anak-anaknya dapet banget. suka juga gaya ilsutrasinya yang artistik rapi, dg background putih.. jatuh cinta sama ilustrasinya deh, banget, banget :)
This one is well loved by both mk and jo and for some reason it makes me so emotional to read. Oh Brush, Oh Hush! I think I need to buy another copy to keep safe forever (the one we've been reading over and over is from aunt Katrina).
LOVED, LOVED, LOVED this book when I was little. I liked seeing the colors blend together.
My favorite book as a child. Kittens make all the colors in the world by mixing paints.
Presumably this is intended to teach little kids about primary colors and how to mix pigments. I found the kittens blitzed expressions and manic behavior less cute than I think I was supposed to.
Quite possibly the cutest book of all time.
One of my absolute favourites from when I was a little kid!(And the book I had was actually the one my dad had had when HE was a little kid...)
https://eruditefeline.wordpress.com/2...
I asked friends and family what were their favorite books as children and my brother-in-law who is a librarian told me he was very fond of this book when he started learning how to read and with those words, I felt I had to read it myself.
He is an avid reader and his opinion matters a lot to me.
I was in for a great read!
What a lovely little book.
A fun and adorable way to learn about colors and to learn how to read and well, kittens!
Who doesn't love kittens!
I enjoyed it and I am sure all kids would too.
This was a favorite as a child! I was just learning my colors when this was read to me, so you can imagine my amazement when I discovered that mixing different colors together ... made other colors! What we adults often think is simplistic or normal, is incredibly dazzling and wondrous to children. So don't skip over those introductory books to colors, letters, animals, vehicles and the like - children are taking it all in happily! Their little world is growing.Ages 3+
Five stars because this is the very first story that I remember being read aloud to me in the school library by the librarian when I was in first grade. It enchanted me. I loved kittens. I loved colors. I loved the ambiance of the quiet and cozy library environment. I loved having a story performed. I have never recovered.
This book is so cute, and the illustrations are wonderful! A great way to help young children learn their colors.
A cute book, not as well-known as Goodnight, Moon, but still fun to read.
<3 childhood favorite holds up.
I loved it :)
Good book for teaching colors and how colors mix to make new colors
I like it
The pictures take up a majority of space on the page, and when the story talks about a specific color almost all of the items being depicted on that page are of that color.Identify specific concepts that could be integrated into the classroom:In the classroom you could use this book to show what colors are needed to make other colors (for example yellow + blue = green), and you could show the importance of working together in order to accomplish the task that you are working on.Provide any other suggestions that would be useful regarding literary content, reading level, and other ways in which the book might be integrated:This book would be good for ages where the child is learning about their colors, and then for older children what colors can be mixed together to create different colors.
First published in 1949,  The Color Kittens  was written by Margaret Wise Brown, author of Goodnight Moon. It is illustrated by Alice and Martin Provensen. The Provensens were a runner-up for the 1982 Caldecott Medal as illustrators of A Visit to William Blake's Inn by Nancy Willard (who won the companion Newbery Medal). Two years later they won the Caldecott for The Glorious Flight, the story of aviator Louis Blériot, the first man to fly solo across the English Channel, which they also wrote.
It is illustrated by Alice and Martin Provensen.
The Provensens were a runner-up for the 1982 Caldecott Medal as illustrators of A Visit to William Blake's Inn by Nancy Willard (who won the companion Newbery Medal).
Two years later they won the Caldecott for The Glorious Flight, the story of aviator Louis Blériot, the first man to fly solo across the English Channel, which they also wrote.
The annual award by U.S. professional librarians recognizes the year's "most distinguished American picture book for children".
