https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/158448.Captain_Blood_Returns
One of the titles of this book - namely Captain Blood Returns - has got to be one of the most misleading titles I ever stumbled upon.
Basically this is a collection of ten short stories (or novellas) related to Peter Blood naval adventures taking place during the time described in the middle of the first book.
If you feel like there was not enough actual pirating and all the related fun: this is the book for you.
Make no mistake, they are fast-moving and full of adventures, narrow escapes, naval and land battles, resulting plunder, and buried treasure (what kind of a pirate tale would it be without at least one of such?).
Днес е ред на „Дневникът на капитан Блъд” – достойно продължение на своя предшественик и поредната приключенска класика в библиографията на големия Рафаел Сабатини! Интересното е, че вместо директно да продължава оригиналния роман, тук авторът ни предоставя възможността да се запознаем с „пропуснатите епизоди” – събития от живота на Питър Блъд, които по една или друга причина не са успели да намерят място в основния сюжет. Прочетете ревюто на "Книжни Криле":https://knijnikrile.wordpress.com/201...
More adventures of Captain Peter Blood. A great addition to the story and worth reading. This book really made me think how spectacular Blood would be as a television character. Too bad Hollywood is focused on lesser material.
A nice companion set of short stories to go with the original Captain Blood. Read Captain Blood before you read this or you won't get it.
Decent swashbuckling fiction. Blood is almost too perfect a character. Zero flaws. This doesn't stand out as much in the novel where several misfortunes stand in for a lot of the flaws. However, this book is actually broken up into several short stories that supposedly happened behind the scenes of the timeline of the first novel, which is a neat idea, but which also forces the reader to read 6-8 times as opposed to 1 time just how perfect and flawless this character is. Hit's you over the head a bit.
Днес е ред на „Дневникът на капитан Блъд” – достойно продължение на своя предшественик и поредната приключенска класика в библиографията на големия Рафаел Сабатини! Интересното е, че вместо директно да продължава оригиналния роман, тук авторът ни предоставя възможността да се запознаем с „пропуснатите епизоди” – събития от живота на Питър Блъд, които по една или друга причина не са успели да намерят място в основния сюжет. Прочетете ревюто на "Книжни Криле":https://knijnikrile.wordpress.com/201...
This is not quite as good as the first book about Captain Peter Blood, but only because it is a series of short stories about the adventures of the pirate instead of one long tale.
The characters are just as exciting as ever as well as the villains just as villainous.
It is still hard for me to read short stories, even if they’re all about the same person, but this book was entertaining.
I especially enjoyed the story about Captain Blood’s capture.
Henry-esque.
Overall, this was a pretty good pick up and have a fun read sort of book.
This is a kind of a prequel of Captain Blood, but not entirely. It features more of the Captain's escapades, starting with how he becomes a buccaneer after first arriving in Tortuga and finishing well before his governership of Jamaica.The stories are well-written, but are very loosely connected, much like the original, giving a slightly broken progression for the book. But Captain Blood is as marvellously and genius as ever so it is still a very entertaining read but lacks the closure of the original.
This book is inappropriatly named. It sounds like it will be a sequel to the great Captain Blood. But it is more just a bunch of compilations of individual adventures that occured while at sea. There is no story line to this book at all. It should be named Captain Bloods adventures so as not to mislead those of us who wanted to continue on with the awesome Captain Blood and his experiences.
I liked these short stories which take place concurrently with the events of the original novel. Probably people who didn't care for the novel as much as I did would also not enjoy these stories which flesh out some of the details of Blood's time as a buccaneer.
As usual, Captain Blood is the cleverest and most charming character of every story. It's a treat to read and it's fun to place the stories in the middle of his regular story. I would love to see all these stories compiled and turned into mini-series on Masterpiece Theater.
The continuing saga of that swashbuckling genius and eloquent hero, Capt. Peter Blood. These are the episodes that didn't fit with the flow of the main novel and present enjoyable, albeit disjointed, material to further delight the fan of daring tales of the sea.
So much fun!Captain Blood's character is well suited to the short story form. I almost like this collection better than the original novel.
More terrific stories of Captain Peter Blood and his crew of virtuous pirates! Clever, tightly plotted and exhilarating. Swashbuckling at it's finest!
Ok, imagine some one gives you the best gift in the world (Captain Blood). Now imagine they turn around and give you something better...
One of my all time favorite adventure novels.And absolutely The Greatest Motion Picture Ever Made ( Errol Flynn, 1935).Romantic endearing. Eternal.🌸
Who would have thought that a pirate would be chivalrous, have values and always keep his word, even when things were not as he thought.
Very entertaining if you enjoyed the initial novel, and especially if you felt it ended too soon.
Перш за все, це збірка окремих оповідань із піратського життя капітана Блада без надмірного драматизму, як це було у першій.
Хоча, як і всі люди, він інколи піддається емоціям і робить помилки, та все ж може впоратися з їхніми наслідками.Маю зазначити, що Рафаель Сабатіні досить іронічний.
Взяти хоча б оповідання "Відплата за зраду", де Блада на Тортузі хапають двоє піратів, аби отримати за нього винагороду в іспанців, а в результаті вбивають один одного через жадібність.
Всі лиходії, так чи інакше виявивши нечесність до Блада чи його людей, зазнають покарання через свою ж дурість.
Продължението на „Капитан Блъд” оправда напълно очакванията ми.
Ако предишната книга беше роман, следващ хронологията на живота на капитана - тази е съставена от отделни, кратки разкази, запълващи няколко дупки в биографията му на морски разбойник.
Отново имаме разкошни морски битки, пиратски съкровища, спасявания на онеправдани дами, различни превъплащения на хитрия капитан, измъквания на косъм, гневни индианци и много финансово наказани недостойни противници.Жалко е, че толкова малко от произведенията на Рафаел Сабатини са преведени на български.
I fully enjoyed these earlier tales of Captain Blood.
Even though it is void of the romance lingered in the first book, the stories are still entertaining and engaging.
I was immersed in Captain Blood's wits and solitude.
However, many books of like kind fall short when either antagonists act preternaturally dumb to let the protagonist's wits uncontested or when a very crafted antagonists makes the most ludicrous mistakes to let the protagonist win through luck and fortitude rather than through prevailing the clash of two great minds.
The shortcomings made it not deserving a five star but also made it an easier and more entertaining read.
I lost my interest to read the third one in the series for now.
The first couple of tales were quite witty and fun. It was nice to be re-acquainted with the old Captain and I liked the focus given to Blood's fellow pirates like Hagthorpe and Pitt. But by the last three or four adventures you get tired of Blood's genius and it becomes hard to believe all these amazing feats actually happened during the modest original: His Odyssey. And please there is no need to read the second sequel The Repetitive Fortunes of the Invincible Captain Blood because !spoiler alert! he wins every time. I bet you didn't see that coming!
Not as good as the first but I just love Captain Blood.
So far, I'm a huge fan of Sabatini, or maybe just a fan of Peter Blood. Somewhat predictable, these swashbuckling tales are fun and adventurous!
Each chapter is an individual story. It takes a few pages to understand the background of each one, then it's great.
Една от любимите ми книги. уникална!
Sea, pirates, gold, rescued maiden & adventure!
