https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/54270.Mein_Kampf
As an experiment, I thought I would post a negative review of Mein Kampf, where I do the same thing and advise people not to read it.
Do you know who Amazon is ?The score is now 45-4._______________________Citizen's latest post has been deleted (it says by the author), but now a new voice has joined the conversation.
But, be that as it may, I would just like to remind everyone what the original point of the exercise was: I wanted to see if Amazon would delete a review whose sole purpose was to persuade shoppers not to buy Mein Kampf.
ولكن هذا غير صحيح، غير صحيح أخلاقياً لأن عنصرية هتلر لا تقف عند الشعب المختار، وغير صحيح لنضالنا ضد دولة إسرائيل أيضاً لأننا نستعير محارق ومجازر النازية على المستوى النفسي، ونتبناها أيضاً.عنصرية هتلر وإيمانه بتفوق العرق الآري وبوجوب استخدام بقية الأعراق الأخرى كـ "موارد مادية" لبناء الحضارة شأنها شأن "الخيل والماشية" ..
فأنا أرفض العنصرية أصلاً، وبصراحة شديدة لا أرى فرقاً على الإطلاق بين أسطورة الشعب المختار الذي يريد السيطرة على العالم (الصهيونية) وبعد أسطورة تفوق العرق الآري على بقية شعوب العالم (النازية) ..
Let's distill my previous review.This book is badly written, presents scientifically incorrect, racist ideas as fact, and takes a comically long time to tell a boring story about formulating an idiotic military plan that didn't work.People who should read this book don't need to be told they should read it. They also have listened to Wagner and read Nietzsche, and find their respective worldviews problematic.If your explanation for reading this book does not involve understanding mistakes from the past and/or exploring why people find nationalism engaging you shouldn't read it.
I don't care how trendy and cool it was considered back in the day, that's just the way I was raised.I read this book on the recommendation of a friend.
But he looked an awful lot like this guy I used to be friends with when I worked at Gamestop.
Perhaps the next time a skinny bald white cashier recommends a book written by Adolf Hitler I should get a second opinion.
Especially if he's not the tall black guy with dreads I used to work with.So in summary...1) Hiter bad2) Gamestop = Cherished memories from my youth3) Books not returnable at Borders after 15 days.
amazing!!!!!!!! the most spectacular peice of literature of the 20th century!!! I was changed forever.

Of course I didn't expect Mein Kampf to be a great book, even within the admittedly narrow antisemitic messianic homoerotic prison genre, but I did expect a little more showmanship.
Like, if you were just planning to go out for a stroll and pick up some schnitzel, you'd happen to overhear him on a radio broadcast and all of a sudden you'd be smashing windows, incarcerating Jews, and annexing strategic swaths of Lebensraum before you even knew what you were doing.
All the more reason to expect a semi-entertaining wallow in the muck and mire.
Why can't we expect the same from Adolf Hitler?
We expect idiots to entertain us with their idiocy; we don't expect them to be dull.
Probably the Jews...
The mix of ideas following Darwin, combined with Nietzsche (superman), the anti-Semitism and eugenics; not to mention all the madcap scientific ideas around and the growth of psychoanalysis.
Hitler was influenced these ideas, especially the virulent anti-Semitism.
But many of Hitler’s ideas were common currency and not out of place at the time; he just followed them to their logical conclusion and most pertinently, he achieved power.
Censorship in any form is dangerous; the first thing Hitler did with power was to begin to move against people and ideas he considered a threat to his ideology.
He told them he would pay $50 to any student who finished reading Mein Kampf by the end of the year.
If you wanted a conspiracy theory, perhaps a good one would be that conservatives tend to say Hitler is impossible to read so that people will not see the similarities of his views with their arguments.
Even then, it is doubtful Germans actually believed it – the big lie was just enough to allow one of the greatest crimes in history to be committed, but not enough to truly justify it even to those following through with the vision.There are chilling moments here – particularly given what happened next and not just to the Jews but also to the Slavs.
سيطرت على هتلر في هذا الكتاب وفي السياسة فيما بعد، فكرة أساسية، هي فكرة التفوق العرقي، فالعرق الآري في رأيه هو العرق الأرقى، هو العرق الذي صنع ويصنع الحضارة الإنسانية، فلذا هو الذي يجب أن يسود، هذه السيادة هي سيادة حتمية، لابد أن تتم بالقوة أولاً، ليحل بعدها السلام على الأرض، في سبيل ذلك لابد من توحيد العرق الآري من خلال استعادة الأراضي الألمانية التي سلبت في الحرب العالمية الأولى، وضم الجاليات الألمانية الموجودة في النمسا، وغيرها من الدول المجاورة، وهذا ما قام به بالفعل عندما تولى السلطة.
Mein Kampf or My Struggle: Five Hundred and Sixty Pages of Struggle against Lies, Stupidity, Irrationality and Sheer ProlixityUnderstanding Hitler’s political methods, rhetorical techniques and organizational skills is often cited as the best reason to read this book in the modern age, since many dictators still use it as a handbook.
Hitler takes all the time n the world and spends most of his book rehashing the same ideas in the same ways again and again.
It is not about reading Hitler to understand how modern Dictators might use the same tactics, but understanding the conditions that allow these pretty rudimentary tactics to succeed and to avoid those conditions.
حين يكتب سيرته الذاتيةوصلت إلى غرضي من قراءة الكتاب...كتاب مفيد للمهتمين بالسياسة، ينقل لك آراء هتلر الجريئة والمقنعة في الجانب السياسيإلا أن الكتاب يعيبه سوء تصنيفه، وتكرار الكلام فيه في أكثر من موضع دون داعٍ لذلككدت أن أعطي الكتاب ثلاث نجمات لولا نقطة سوء التصنيف هذهأما هتلر نفسه..رجل اختار عقيدة أساسها باطل...
The author of this book is certainly one of the five or ten biggest nutjobs in the history of the world. Complete raving lunatic. No one should ever listen to a thing he says. If you agree with him, you're some kind of Nazi scumbag.
O livro é dividido em algumas partes, o que facilita um pouco o entendimento e o momento da vida dele que ele estava contando.Hitler não tinha genialidade nenhuma.
Eu, que tanto vejo as pessoas bradarem aos quatro ventos que Hitler era de "esquerda" por conta do nome do partido dele, após a leitura descobri que ele mesmo afirmou que deveria de alguma forma colocar "socialismo/socialista" e "trabalhadores" ao nomear o partido, pois assim conseguiria atingir a classe dos operários que não ~pensava muito~, segundo ele.
Hitler tinha um poder de persuasão absurdo, era inteligente e muito carismático; e isso resultou na Segunda Grande Guerra.
Get past impressions that are forced down your throat in history class and read it for what it is, a historical text that, like it or not, had a tremendous impact on the world as we know it today.
It is a difficult read and, to be frank, a large percent of the population will not have the fortitude to pick it up off the shelf in a bookstore or be able get past the ideas presented and discard it outright.
The important thing, as in so many hot issues, is to keep everything in perspective and make up your own mind.
Maybe it was the time that I had spent at their library reading the Salem Witch Trials, the court documents.
It was an old story, one that was heard in Germany often, which people believed, which let to them accepting Hitler’s own rants.
Then I read some of Hitler’s speeches, still trying to find the one that I had read at the library.
So, Hitler’s book is finally being published again, but this time with information to inform people so that they will know that Hitler spoke lies.
Still, I think if a person in inclined to be racist, to hate, they will not pay any attention to these comments.
Amazing that one person could have not only thought these things but had the audacity to write them down for posterity.I read a good chunk of this in it's original German form.
It was assigned to us in high school as a "get as far as you can stomach" sort of read.
I hesitate to call it nationalistic as others have- there are people who are dedicated to their country without being so maddeningly accusatory.The only thing I find striking is the fact it was written before he became Fuhrer...
hitler should have changed his last name to "hit", because that's what this book is! the main character, who looks like sarah jessica parker, is in her mid-30's and looking for love in all the wrong places. when she gets transported back in time to repressive regime of hitler, the language barrier and her liberal ideals won't stop her from finding true love. a lil' bit of trivia: the audio book was narrated by a young jody foster.
الغرب والامبريالية العالمية مثلما سيروا افكارنا وفقا لمفاهيمهم الاستهلاكية والمنحرفه يريدون ايضا ان نبني مشاعرنا وفقا لاهوائهم فهم يريدوننا ان نحب اعداءنا ومغتصبي اراضينا المقدسه لانهم اصدقاءهم كما يريدوننا ان نعادي كل من يعادي اصدقاءهم يعني هم ببساطة بعدما شبعوا من مرحلة استعمار الاراضي واستعمار الافكار انتقلوا الان الى مرحلة استعمار المشاعرنصيحة : قيموا الشخصيات التاريخية وفقا لقناعاتكم التي يجب ان تبنى وفقا للمعطيات وليس كما تصنعها الاجهزة الدعائية
One of my top 2 favorite pieces of autobiographical political propaganda... brilliantly written if obviously logically flawed... a beautiful look into the crafting of a thoroughly well rounded political theory... about as much to be lieved as any other... not for the dogmatic among us
I found the narrator, a racist german war veteran imprisoned for an attempted coup, very unrelateable. He was just not very sympathetic or likeable. Also the book is written in german, which is not very relateable to me, someone who doesnt speak german.

i picked up this book thinking "it's time to hear his side of the story, his perspective." Let me be clear, Reading this book doesn't make me a "Nazi fan" or "Neo Nazi" i'm just a human driven by curiosity.
For a Long time i have been told to hate Hitler, (how can i not to when it’s shoved down my throat 24/7 ),Which by the way i don't (Gasp!!!).
-Tatsachen und Lügen um Hitler Long story short, if your kid wants to be a painter or a song writer, Save the humanity and let them fucking be.
I don’t now what compelled me to pick up this book but I am often intrigued with cults and other disgusting behavior. I wish I wouldn’t have because it was poorly written and for the most part incoherent, but I did enjoy some of the explanations of propaganda.
دوستان گرانقدر... چنانچه برایِ مطالعۀ یک کتاب در بخشِ زندگینامه و تاریخ فرصتِ کافی دارید.. خواندنِ این کتاب را از دست ندهید... اگر بدونِ پیش فرض در موردِ هیتلر و سیاستهایش بیاندیشید و پژوهش نمایید، این پرسش در ذهنِ شما ایجاد میشود که آیا این همان هیتلری است که از سویِ یهودیان و انگلیسی ها، این همه تبلیغاتِ گسترده انجام شده تا ثابت کنند انسانی قاتل و جانی بوده است!!... بله .. دوستانِ عزیزم... این مردِ بزرگ مانندِ تمامیِ انسانها اشتباهاتی نیز داشته، و زیان هایی برای انسانیت در رفتار و تصمیماتش دید
ولی فراموش نکنید که هیتلر فقط و فقط میهن پرستی قابلِ ستایش بوده که زیر بارِ زور نرفته است و حاضر به نابود کردن و تکه پاره کردنِ سرزمینش توسطِ کشورهایِ دیگر (نیاز به نام بردن از این کشورها نیست) نبوده است...
نشانِ صلیبِ آھنین درجه یک، یا همان مدالِ شجاعت، مهمترین مدالِ او بود که تا آخرِ عمر بر گردنش بود‎پس از آنکه در جنگ جهانی اول، برایِ آخرین بار زخمی شد، در بیمارستان بستری گردید..
انا بكره كتب السيرة الذاتية بكرها بشكل مبالغ فيهفما بالك بهتلر؟حلاوة الكتاب دا للي قرائه يعني انه ير
[BEFORE READING; February 2016; scroll down for actual review] I finally got this book!I say "finally" because I pre-ordered it in mid-December 2015 and it should appear on January 8th. The publishing house decided to print only 4,000 copies, when the number of pre-orders allegedly was 15,000 at this point. The reprint seems to be running at full speed.Interestingly the book can currently not be ordered from Amazon, although they say on their website:"The proceeds from the sale of this book thr
The offers range (as of today) from 175 EUR to 489 EUR, while the regular price is 59 EUR.About the book itself:It contains the complete text of Hitler's Mein Kampf together with a huge amount of scientific annotations that were made by a group of historians at the German Institute for Contemporary History.
[click to enlarge]I added some highlighting: red = Hitler's orginal text (only on odd-numbered pages, on the right)yellow = differences/deletions made in the different editions of Mein Kampf together with the year they were made.blue = Annotations (referenced by footnotes) of which there are about 3,500.
I don't actually intend to read this book, just to share the following passage from Volume 4 of Kasparov's My Great Predecessors.
Bobby Fischer and Samuel Reshevsky at the 1970 Interzonal in Palma de Mallorca:During the tournament they could sometimes be seen, leisurely walking along, peacefully chatting, little Sammy and tall Fischer.
Later Reshevsky explained: 'He has his views, I have my views.
I tried to make him see the light.
I didn't succeed, but I tried.'One of the most extraordinary things about Fischer was that almost all his colleagues in the chess world genuinely liked and respected him.
Being German, I first read it at the age of 15 or so, the copy my grandparents were given for their wedding in 1942.
I did not understand everything at the time, in particular some of the allusions to the parliament, but I understood well enough and could not believe what I was reading.
In Germany it is not easy to get a copy, I think, but for me this was and is a must-read.
Hitler wrote it when no one believed he would ever be in a position to do all this nasty stuff - but then, when he was, he actually did exactly what he had said he would - creepy.
-Slow and rambling. Terrifying in its statements of wars of extermination and the force of propaganda.-Excellent for understanding the psychology and neuroses of future dictators and megalomaniacs. For example: Hitler's interest in his 'method' of reading - finding only the most relevant bits of information - could be interpreted as a demand for facts which fit pre-determined worldview. Obsessive patriotism as refuge from conflicted family life. Failed artist leading to view as romantic hero/savior/Lord of German Volk - note interest in Wagner.-Not a 'good' book by any means, but one that must be read.
