https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/549384.The_Intellectual_Life
(That last phrase makes me chuckle).His challenge is to create habits of holy, simple living for the evening hours, which he calls "peaceful semi-activity".
A "good conversation" at our house usually includes discussing the books we've been reading and often we end up sharing quotes or tidbits.
But no gaping allowed!It seems the key is to have some sort plan, maybe a list of pleasant options so that the evening doesn't follow a rigid routine but still has structure.I'm working on this; resolved to NOT be the violin with slackened strings.
In sum, I would characterize this book as a Catholic mystic's take on the intellectual life: its objectives, its methods, its benefits.This approach to the subject provides some valuable insight and wisdom into the intellectual life: that it cannot be divorced from the total person; that it requires the virtues of solitude, humility, and commitment; that its essence is not reading and writing, but thinking and contemplating truth; that it cannot be fruitful apart from the soul's connection with God. He interestingly suggests that one can read too much: only a few books are worthy of our time.
The title sounds imposing and the intellectual life is not for everyone, but if you take the time, and this is a short book, to consider the practical recommendations in this classic work you are likely to find aspects of the book that will prove useful in your reading life.
This short book presents chapters on organization of one's work, time, and life.
This is a good example of the type of practical advice that readers and thinkers may glean from this book.
This is a book every person who loves to learn should read. You need not be in pursuit of advanced degrees but in search of advancement in your ability to gather information better, to make better use of time for learning, discovering ways that the thinker acts in their pursuits of the intellectual life.
Foundation for the course I teach to 9th graders of the same title, The Intellectual Life. Not an easy read, but a great one.
This was one of the best books I have ever read- definitely life changing!!! Inspiring, eloquent and insightful! Thanks to my awesome (intellectual) brother for the book!
a classic about living an intellectual life as we live out our ordinary lives.
I wish the bearded gentleman in the sky every future success, but the contemporary intellectual - and intellectual life - must be rigorously secular.Similarly the sexism is delightful, funny and also horrifying.
Parking these two attributes, the book is moving and also centering.
It is a meditative monograph and a text of memory.In a time where higher education has the intellectual courage of a drug dealer cutting smack with baking powder, this book is a reminder of a lost age that we could have again if we committed to reading, writing and thinking.
Definitely worth reading again for self-reflection.
There are a lot of reminders in this book.
Well then what is work according to this book?
But not an over bearing study that arrests your time from family, vocation and free time.
Quiet solitude is one of the most important points talked about in this book.
In essence, find a balance in life that will continue to challenge your intellectual aims, but don't become lax enough to forget your purpose in life.
I am glad this is a Catholic book.
All of us mortal beings have a purpose.
A great motivational book that will need to be thumbed through for reminders.
Sou mais uma voz, nesse coro internacional, endossando que o livro em questão é essencial: para os intelectuais ou aspirantes, a fim de testar sua vocação e se orientar; para os que estão na dúvida, o livro a sanará de vez, no melhor estilo ou-vai-ou-racha, e nisso é superior a qualquer outro do tipo - inclusive os do Adler.Por que quatro estrelas?
É fato que algumas de suas metáforas e analogias são muito esclarecedoras, mas estas pareceram-me a minoria.
Mesmo alguns conselhos que podem parecer datados são facilmente transponíveis para o mundo atual, sobretudo os que recomendam se afastar das distrações.A tradução da É realizações é boa, mas não excepcional.
I read this book after James Schall recommended it "The Life of the Mind" as a follow-up to his own book.
Sertillanges's observations are practical and profound at the same time.
He gives practical advice about how the intellectual worker should order his day.
Sertillanges has a strong sense of incarnation and thus recognizes that we are not mere brains in isolation from our bodies.
Sertillanges points out that our motives are also very important.
He observes, "Intellectually, pride is the father of aberrations and of artificial and pretentious productions; humility is the eye which reads in the book of life and in the book of the universe” (131).
This is the rule for the Catholic intellectual, though the methodology is sound for any person who wishes to learn from and contribute to the total of human knowledge.
It is an exhortation to the person who finds the fire principally in their mind.
One also notices that Father Sertillanges applies what he instructs; his graceful style is a constant pleasure; his apt quotations drive points home like the hammer of a seasoned craftsman.This work, taken in tandem with Sister Miriam Joseph's Trivium, are invaluable tools for the person who desires "to be admitted into the wine-cellar," the sanctum of what our minds are capable of being.
Toes a surprisingly well-chosen line between generalities and specific advice, for the most part. Ironically, although the author professes to despise novels, his advice would be as good for a fiction writer as for a philosopher or scientist (who seem to be his target audience). The man was also capable of being an orthodox Catholic who could nevertheless digest and pass on bits of good advice even from people like Nietzsche without bothering to make a negative comment; he really did seem ready to accept truth wherever he found it.
"We never think entirely alone; we think in company, in a vast collaboration; we work with the workers of the past and of the present." --SertillangesI will be reading this book for the rest of my life. Honestly, if I were building a 10 foot bookshelf--this book would be on it.
Recommended by James Schall in Another Sort of Learning, Chapter 3, as one of six books on learning and teaching.Included in the "Miscellaneous" section of Fr. John McCloskey's 100-book Catholic Lifetime Reading Plan.
Challenging and intellectually stimulating.
This book is a treasure (one page visual summary). The purpose is to inspire the yes to a calling of using your intellect to make a better life. To join the learned. It’s about 80% why you should and about 20% how you should live a life of learning. He’s a Dominican priest, but you wouldn’t guess that reading it. First, he speaks about harmony and order in an Eastern style. Second, the writing style reminds me of an author he quotes a few times – Nietzsche. It’s an enthusiastic, encouraging, so
If you’re the kind of adult who cannot imagine life without reading and writing, this book is your validation that there is a higher calling that awaits – the life of learning.
Love truth and its fruits of life, for yourself and for others; devote to study and to the profitable use of study the best part of your time and your heart.
63Everything holds treasures, because everything is in everything, and a few laws of life and of nature govern all the rest.73Learn to listen.
He urges beginning intellectuals to practice self-sacrifice and diligence, and to constantly immerse themselves in materials (both ideas and physical settings) which would expose them to truth and reawaken their thirst for more knowledge.
Style – or form – for Sertillanges amounts to something invaluable because it is the medium through which one communicates truth.
Similarly, the mind of each one of us can only communicate with truth and with itself through the body.
(201)Sertillanges decries cliché formulations because they do not evince the unique and intense contact with the truth that an intellectual ought to have.
Sertillange wrote a brilliant, deep, useful text for generations to come. If you are not religious, you may leave certain parts as they are, with no prejudice to the various ideas and advices he gives. A few parts that mention a diminished role of women, away from an intelectual life, are easily forgiven as they reflect the times he lived in. This book is of enormous humanistic value. It's a shame I didn't know about it earlier in my life. 5/5 stars
This book was excellent! Many good quotes and profound thoughts for current students. Setillanges work reminds me of the Christian student equivalent of Charles Bridges book for pastors titled The Christian Ministry.
This book is a great distillation of the Catholic intellectual tradition, which has much to offer Protestant evangelicals who care about ideas.
Books should inspire our own thinking and reading should awaken reflection (170, 190).
In the end, all intellectual inquiry serves the moral make-up of man: "What we know is like a beginning, a rough sketch only; the man is the finished work" (235).I enjoyed his take on writing with a pen: "My style, my pen, is the intellectual instrument which I use to express myself and to tell others what I understand of eternal truth" (201).
This book is so well written.It encompasses the life of an intellectual from the Catholic/Christian point of view.
All aspects of one's life are addressed, at least in principle, as contributing to or detracting from, one's intellectuality.Sertillanges is French, and the book was translated from his native tongue.
They key, after all, is self discipline applying the principles he describes to one's thought life, one's selective reading, and one's writing.I finished reading it today and already want to read it again.If you're looking for a book on the intellectual life, get this one!
The most valuable aspect of this book is its strong belief that hobby intellectualism can be a vocational calling.
Some of the advice – reserve two hours a day, set up a note-taking system, focus on writing regularly – will help, but since his definition of an intellectual life is so broad, the reader will have to fill in a lot of the gaps themselves.
I feel as if I’ve implemented only a small portion of Sertillanges’ vision of an intellectual life, but I’ve found having a practical system, like David Allen’s “Getting Things Done”, to be helpful in the eventual organizing and planning required.
It is written by an intellectual for intellectuals, of the old school.
In this age, the dusty old book is a breath of fresh air.
It brings to mind a more innocent age, where an ordered life was the beginning of the intellectual career.I may not agree with everything in this book.
But I find this book for me is like a ladder, by which I can gain a higher vantage point, although not without exertion.
I hope to return to it at some future time and see whether I have come closer to the lofty vantage point of this true intellectual.
(Take that, those fools who say Epicureanism and/or Stoicism are flimsy!)Sertillanges inspires and educates those who would establish an inner mental life, and successfully avoids the trap that many in the genre have of becoming almost entirely or even completely inspiration—otherwise, I would have thought "why I did I waste my time reading this when I could have been doing that intellectual project!" Instead, I felt that my main intellectual project for the foreseeable future—my Senior Essay—will be bolstered by the skills and dedication that Sertillanges teaches and advocates.
I may even re-read it in January.
I was thoroughly impressed by this book, certain parts of the book seemed like they were running on, however if one can keep focus and find the personal relevance in each (sub)section of the book, the wisdom contained in the book is indeed of high value for anyone seeking to embody a life of Lifelong Learning.
I will probably be referring to this book again and again and certainly making notes from this book to apply elsewhere in my auto-didactic lifestyle.
Nonetheless, the book covers what the subtitle said it will address, it talks about the Before, During, and After of Intellectual work, it talks about advice as your work relates to the world around you as well.
This is an incredible work, Fr. Sertillanges, O.P., being a faithful follower of the studious St. Dominic himself. It could be titled "The Introduction to the Intellectual Life" since it follows very much the same style as St. Francis de Sales's excellent  Introduction to the Devout Life .
Em que pese o fato de ser bem escrita, o ponto fulcral da obra é a vocação intelectual, do ponto de vista católico.Aplicabilidade para conselhos sobre como estudar (leitura, anotações, memorização, ...) começam a partir da página 119.A moral ao final do livro fica sendo: usar o bom senso, não se exceder nem no descano, nem na labuta, nem almejar mais do que a sua capacidade.
I used this with my students. I think Sertillanges makes a compelling case, but in the age of Twitter, Facebook, and much else, he seems to be fighting a losing battle against distraction and in favor of silence and contemplation--alas.
