https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/279561.Broken_Angels
A very different book from Altered Carbon.
Is this one of those cases where a successful author isn't subject to as much editorial control?A difference that doesn't bother me is that Broken Angels is more SF and less murder mystery than Altered Carbon.
The sex in the second book seemed more because the author wants to get his Kovacs character laid.
He's mooning over a character from Altered Carbon that he wasn't actually mooning over at the end of that book.
Granted, Our Hero musing over lost love or the like may serve to offer character depth for a reader who didn't read the first book, but for me it was grating.Meh.
I find Morgan's writing to be super engaging and the story itself delivers a good mix of action, humor, and mystery while still giving the reader plenty of thought-provoking themes to ponder.
Morgan writes interesting and thought provoking sci-fi but never lets any of that stuff overwhelm either his characters or the story itself.
I loved the fact that Morgan fleshed out the worldbuilding a bit in this second instalment and we got to learn more about how humanity spread to the stars and the technology that made it possible.
He gets the tone and humor in the story and his voice is a perfect fit for Takeshi.
Broken Angels is a vastly different book to the first Takeshi Kovacs novel, Altered Carbon.
Where Altered Carbon read like a futuristic noir, focusing on a sci-fi murder mystery, the sequel (set fifty years after) reads like military sci-fi with exploration into the evolutionary Martian warfare at the forefront.Whilst I enjoyed the book, there are a lot of characters in Broken Angeles and a lot of scheming, double and triple crosses, and semi-political/corporate backstabbing which was hard to grasp at time.
Not quite a sci-fi epic but still a deep and complex space opera which brings back the familiar concepts of Altered Carbon while unveiling a whole new playground of stars to explore.
I definitely liked the crime noir mystery aspects of his first Takeshi Kovacs book Altered Carbon, but this entry changes the setting and is if possible ever more grim and hyper-violent than the first, while managing to be less interesting at the same time.
Right now I'm feeling in the mood for something a bit more fun but still space opera, like Old Man's War or a Miles Vorkosigan novel.
But is this a hard-bitten war novel?
But. Add an ancient civilization, the one that we stole the tech that turned us all into immortals, a fantastic find, and then turn it into an exploratory heist novel with enormous opportunities for cross and double-cross, and we've suddenly gone into great hardcore SF territory.Kovacs is still fantastic and Morgan has a talent turning out complicated and memorable characters up and down the line.
Kovac's intuition still runs as hot as his hallucinatory madness.Few hard-SF novels are quite as memorable as this one, but that's more a feature of the characters than anything else.
It’s perhaps the first book I’ve ever read that successfully conveyed the wonder and existential horror of finding yourself a tiny wriggling human in the remains of a civilization millions of times older and wiser and more advanced.And the more important thing: like Altered Carbon, this is a book about people as meat.
All those people – including scientists, and it’s a surprising lot of them – who believe in an animist theory of consciousness are missing the point, I think.
I mean, it can’t just be nerve impulses, how is that possible?”I think a lot of animists are animists for the sensawunda.
There's nothing in this book, ABSOLUTELY NOTHING AND NO-ONE, that has at least remote connection to the "Altered Carbon", except Takeshi Covacs.
It's a slower read than the first one, it gets too concentrated on minor details at one point around the middle, and the story is much, much less noir detective.
I've got a few drops of this feeling while reading Altered Carbon, but as this book is much more concentrated on military, rebellions and war in general, no wonder that I've felt it much more in this book.
Richard Morgan's Takeshi Kovacs novels have a stellar reputation among hard core science fiction fans. I have previously enjoyed reading Morgan's first book in the series, the exciting  Altered Carbon , which introduces the Takeshi Kovacs character to the world.In the second book  Broken Angels , Morgan puts Kovacs in another compelling and very dangerous situation, while still maintaining the character's unlikeability. The themes of the first book, explicit sexuality, corporate greed, capitalis
Richard Morgan's Takeshi Kovacs novels have a stellar reputation among hard core science fiction fans.
The themes of the first book, explicit sexuality, corporate greed, capitalist malfeasance, dangerous technological advances, and dehumanizing violence, all return in even greater amounts in the sequel.Altered Carbon made Richard Morgan seem like the second coming of Dashiell Hammett with Takeshi Kovacs a 24th century Sam Spade, like a cross between Blade Runner and The Maltese Falcon.
Morgan's action scenes are another highlight of the book, especially when told from Kovacs’ perspective and internal monologue.Broken Angels is a memorable entry into the genre of hard-core, hard-bitten military science fiction by another talented British writer.
4.5 to 5.0 stars. Great follow up to Altered Carbon. The Takeshi Kovacs novels are original, inventive, high octane SF at its best. HIGHEST POSSIBLE RECOMMENDATION!!
Where Altered Carbon has been described as Hardboiled/Noir Cyberpunk, this book is more Military Sci-Fi/Cyberpunk with a hint of Space Opera.
In many ways Broken Angels reminds me a lot of Alastair Reynolds Revelation Space books.
Where Reynolds would use understated hints of violence and build to a crescendo to get the blood pumping - the first hint of violence Morgan gives you is when you're ducking the body parts after your buddy's been hit with explosive plasma rounds or when you're wearing the goup that used to be your partner.This story is set some 30 years after the events of Altered Carbon on the war ravaged planet Sanction IV.
But aliens have there own ghosts too.5 stars.Altered Carbon ReviewRevelation Space Review
While not as good as Altered Carbon, this still has enough going on to be interesting. It's more a creepy ghost story than a mystery, and for a while there's some excellent suspense - Who might be sabotaging the crew from within? Who might come out from the other side of that Martian gate? And what will those crazy nanobots think of next? Be forwarned, though, that herein lies the absolute worst sex scene that has ever been put to paper. The fact that is takes place in virtual reality is no excuse.
Wardani's an archaeologue, see, and there's this alien artifact in a cave ...This is a very different book than Altered Carbon -- Altered Carbon was a consciously noir mystery set amongst the gleaming spires and neon-littered slums of 26th Century Earth; Broken Angels takes place some 30 years later on a distant, war-torn planet and is basically a mixture of military SF and alien discovery -- like if the monolith from 2001, instead of being on the Moon, had been hidden somewhere in the Mekong River delta circa 1972.
Kompleksno napisana knjiga sa puno detalja. Nije nesto najbolje sto sam pročitao ali drži pažnju. Takesi Kovac zajeban lik. Voleo bih da procitam nastavak
Nothing like its predecessor, story-wise, this follow-up on Takeshi Kovacs is nonetheless a brutal adrenaline-fueled ride from start to finish and a worthy successor to Altered Carbon.StoryWhere Altered Carbon was a noir detective/mystery romp set on Earth in the far future, with a lot of local intrigue and a personal vendetta mixed in for good fun, Broken Angels throws us smack in the middle of an orange/blue world, torn apart by civil war, despots and corporate greed.
I didn't think this was a good follow up to Altered Carbon, a book I really liked.
I expected more of the same.
Now, in a sequel, you do expect the author to deviate a LITTLE from the original, or it'd be more of the same.
In Broken Angels, Takeshi Kovacs is a mercenary who is persuaded to become a ...
Also the sex is different.
In this book, you get the most ridiculous sex scene that's perhaps ever been written, in VR no less.
The sex scenes seem forced and I didn't like them.
‘Altered Carbon’ was an exploration of the rot of sexual freedom into sexual decadence, and this novel is an exploration of the rot in moral faith that lies behind much political hatred and manipulation.
At the same time it's interesting how apparently if you burn out the usual human emotions and put in biotech to twist what's left of nerves and neurons you seem to get a human computer with a lot of mystical intuition and deep cynicism regarding motives of those in earnest self-sacrifice as well as the vicious self-serving.
Richard Morgan's future is a strange place: digital immortality, a human civilization that spans dozens of worlds and resides in the remnants of an ancient Martian civilization, all powerful corporations that control the fates of entire worlds, and all manners of technology for killings or satisfying the more carnal needs of humanity.In this far future mess of humanity we find Takeshi Kovacs, the erstwhile protagonist from Altered Carbon, finds himself in the middle of a protracted planetary war working for an elite mercenary company.
I can only imagine that writing a follow up to critically acclaimed novel has got to be a bummer.
You got this big awesome first story with all these great ingredients and an amazingly complex and fascinating protagonist.
You also got mad style as a writer.
But really, what the hell are you supposed to do with this awesome character that could possibly top the first novel?
Not actual martians, but their apparently forgotten ruins.
Now, don't get me wrong, I love stories of martians, space-faring war technology, and intrigue.


Broken Angels is the second novel of the Takeshi Kovacs series.
Whereas Altered Carbon was a future noir detective story in the future, Broken Angels is a war picture.
To quote J.R.R Tolkien: "We were all orcs in the Great War." Takeshi Kovacs just wants out of the conflict on Sanction IV and he's willing to kill anybody he has to in order to do it.
I think it has some benefits over the original like better sex scenes and a more powerful backdrop with the war but Takeshi is less likable in this environment while the other characters tend to be sleazier.
Body-hopping secret agent Takeshi Kovacs traverses a less-than perfect pan- galactic future where identities can be recorded and transferred from one genetically engineered ‘sleeve’ to another. The second novel from the master of SF-noir is an intelligent high-tech actioner expanding the world first seen in Altered Carbon. High-tech weaponry, military jargon and firefights abound, but there is an important question arising from all the carnage: does identity have any meaning or even worth when it only exists as data?
The Takeshi Kovacs series is very violent and very graphic but also a lot of fun. The stories are set in a dark future society where humans can have their consciousness backed-up electronically and transferred to new bodies if they die. The main character, is a highly trained courier who takes on different missions as a sort of mercenary for higher. The plots is complex and jumps around but the writing is very entertaining and I love Kovacs.
Second in the trilogy, this is one of the most haunting books I have read in a long while. Eerie and hard-boiled at the same time, Morgan's blend of science fiction, mystery and political fiction works but the addition of the "Martian" ship is truly weird and wonderful. Great series so far!
Richard K Morgan's first book, Altered Carbon introduced us to Takeshi Kovacs, a bitter cynic with a heart of gold and the best psychosocial training humanity has been able to muster in this post-cyberpunk setting.
How, then, are they different, or any less mystical, than the belief that there is another realm where the dead live in the company of beings so far beyond us we must call them gods?"I looked away, oddly embarrassed by the fervor in Hand's voice.
3.5 starsI shook my head. ‘I don’t have the energy to hate the corporates, Hand. Where would I start? And like Quell says, rip open the diseased heart of a corporation and what spills out?’‘People.’ ‘That’s right. People. It’s all people. People and their stupid fucking groups. Show me an individual decision-maker whose decisions have harmed me, and I’ll melt his stack to slag. Show me a group with the united purpose of harming me and I’ll take them all down if I can. But don’t expect me to waste time and effort on abstract hate.’
Even the final firefight seems long-winded.
After the first Takeshita book, Altered Carbon, I had hoped Morgan had acquired some better pacing and self-editing, but no.
There are more hints of how the story might have developed in the long wordy and sad denouement in the final chapter or so, that could have been expanded back into the body of the main plot to generate some wonder, but this has been discarded and trashed.
UghNot sure I will read any more Morgan at all.
If you loved the first Takeshita book, don't spoil it by reading this one.
Morgan's second Takeshi Kovacs book is a widescreen space opera with mysterious Forerunner artifacts, plus exploding spaceships! It's more mil-SF-y than the first. Just as lively, hardboiled, fast-moving, and well-written, too -- I had a great time reading it, right up to the end, where Morgan shoves Kovacs completely out of character (imo). Not pretty, and not necessary. Up to that, BA is near-great. Still well-worth reading, but brace yourself for the wonky wrap-up. 3.5 stars, rounded down.
Richard Morgan's narration is poetry, Todd McLaren's voice is a symphony.
1) sell the stolen ship to a black market dealer, Roespinoedji (creepy guy sleeved in a child that's carried around by a dead guy) 2) use the funds to hire a 2nd tier corporation to broadcast some catastrophic signal (basically the location of all the corporates off world stacks - terrifying because if any of their enemies knew of that location they'd all really die, no resleeves) 3) wait for the assault team to come and find the sender of that code 4) kill said assault team and capture its leader 5) interrogate leader to find out who is really in control of the corporation 6) set meeting with corporate executive (Hand) and offer him a deal - corporate finances the venture and gets the gate in exchange for $20 million U.N.
