https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4076.In_Search_Of_Excellence
Why I Read this Book: I was interested to know what it is that makes companies excellent.
This was their “search of excellence”.I had the pleasure of growing up around my father who spent the first part of his career after business school at McKinsey & Company while Waterman and Peters were in their tenure.
My guess is that most companies, both large and small, know these fundamentals and best practices.
And we all know that we are the presidents and CEO’s of our own success.It is up to us to create and find the excellence in every part of our life.

A must read for every business executive
Read this during my MBA days.I'm going to quote from another book (Standard Deviations by Gary Smith) which I highly recommend and which might provide some perspective here"McKinsey, one of the world’s top consulting firms, asked two obscure consultants, Tom Peters and Robert Waterman, to take a look at several successful companies.
This rather casual study was the basis for their wildly influential and successful book, In Search of Excellence, which identified eight common factors that Peters and Waterman found in these forty-three excellent companies—for example, a bias for action and being close to the consumer.
In Search of Excellence was one of the 1980's best-selling books.The authors analyzed some successful companies attempting to identify the eight attributes they had in common.Since then, more than half of those "excellent" companies disappeared, got acquired and disassembled, or went through extreme difficulties, indicating that the eight attributes were just simply things the companies did well at the time, but were not the answer to long term success.However, this book is still a good read for those wishing to track the evolution of management to present days.
Boring.I listened to the audio version of the book and it was slow and painful. Their ideas are good, but the prolong examples were more matter than meat. This is a book that is better skimmed than read.I read the book in Dec 2008 and some of the companies mentioned either don't exist or have been bought up by others. I would really like to see a follow up to the book and see how the companies are doing and if the priciples Peters extols have worked.
I've read this book before. It was called every business book ever written ever. I realize this was one of the first and was ground breaking in its day but now its been reduced to a cliche. The books that followed are more detailed and more relevant for today's world. If you're interested in history fine but if you want practical advice for today don't waste your time with this one.
must read for every Entrepreneur/Business owner
Peters and Waterman conducted research on companies they identified as excellent.
If you are a business student, this is among the books you should read.
Collins and Jerry Porras and Good to Great by Jim Collins.In Search of Excellence explains how Peters and Waterman conducted their research and then what they found.
They give us some insight into the excellent companies and what makes them tick.
If you were in management back in the 1980s, you were probably compelled to read this book.
The Fast Track Management program I was in made this required reading.This book has been a part of my business library for years.
The timing for having read this book, In Search of Excellence I was on my own search for it somewhere between shoulder pads for women's suits and a dresser drawer I had popping full of panty hose.
Curiously it was also about the same time my mom wanted me to write a personal request to Lee Iacocca of Chrysler and ask him for a personal scholarship to help pay my college semester after my family moved yet again.
I did not get a response to my letter of request to Mr. Iacocca.This book, In Search of Excellence was in the vein of the virtue of giants and was extolling their business practices.
Book : In Search of ExcellenceAuthor: Tom Peters & Robert H WatermanIn search of Excellence is a book on research using 7S (Strategy & Structure (hardware), Style, systems, Staff, Skills, and shared Values (software)) framework of McKinsey as the authors were working with McKinsey.
High intensity of measurement and feedback •	Excellent companies has the ability to manage ambiguity and paradox.
The excellent companies have developed cultures that incorporated the values and practices of the great leaders.•	Tools are biased towards measurement and analysis.
•	Excellent companies have 5 attributes of communication system that seems to foster innovation1.
This is a timeless self-improvement book.
I read this more than a couple of decades ago but I can still remember Bias for Action and Be Close to the Customer.
I was just starting my career then and I consider myself fortunate to having read a nice book that I could apply in my corporate life.
I can also recall the story about Disney where regular office employees assume a cartoon character role (wearing costume and mask) once in a while just to interact with their customers.
BTW, they did not sound like office employees to me.
A very nice management book! the book is newer version of same title published twice before discussing what are the factors which make some companies excellent and discuss 8 basic factors which assume to be so and I agree with them to large extent.The book discuss each idea with tons and tons of detailed examples (to the boring extent) yet present the ideas clearly and in very simple convincing way.I really recommend the book for people working at different managerial levels in different industries. and I request the authors to issue summarized version for executives with less examples.
One of the better business books out there.
Still relevant 30 years after it was written, providing me much insight and wisdoem on how to motivate and lead by Dr. Peters study of excellent companies and why they succeed.
More or less and I'm finding this to be a common theme, its the people in the organization and how they are managed that creates long-term success.
A company is short-sighted if they think it is any one product alone because in this age with exponential competition, we must rely on the human capital to innovate, create and motivate a company's long-term success.
It seems the author reiterates the idea through out the whole books trying to fit in his 8 principles of managing a company.It's biased to compare the excellent company with the rest and speculate the conclusion.
The book is full of Tony personal touch and business philosophy about his Zappos, and how he empowers his employee fully in charge for customer service line.At first, the author describes the "Rational Model" of people and organization are not "rational" in the ways of strategy.
In the book, the author basically describes the typical diversification dilutes the company value and goal.
5 stars largely because this was the very first Business & Investing book I read -- way back in early high school -- and I enjoyed it enough to keep on reading in the genre. So thank you, Tom Peters, for giving me a nice first introduction to the exciting world of business.
Would have had 5 stars had this been 1990.
They chose about 43 firms, based on financial performance and general reputation and then did a series of interviews with executives at those firms as well as a survey of articles written about those firms (what those of us in academia would call a literature review.) The results of those research efforts was this book.Peters and Waterman identified about eight themes that seemed to be constant in the "excellent" companies.
Try "minimum viable product" or "rapid prototyping." Nonetheless, I am sure that much of this was groundbreaking at the time and the fact that these concepts are now largely fundamental in modern business shows how influential all of this really was or is.After a lengthy introduction, Peters and Waterman approach the book through the lenses of their eight themes, chapter by chapter.
Interesting if somewhat dated assessment of the ingredients of an excellent company.
The authors clearly draw heavily on their network of contacts from work in the field with the biggest name in consulting: McKinsey.
It provides a valuable summary of the essential ingredients to success, in their opinion, by stating 8 key areas and how they apply to the McKinsey 7s.
Easier to read than some it provides a good combination of theory supported by examples.
My biggest criticism is that the examples are often drawn from a handful of companies - which are particularly today not that relevant and sometimes came across as contrived to suit the example they were drawn on to illustrate.
It's incredible how many (all?) of the concepts in this book are still applicable today (although the companies mentioned are no longer amongst the top). Highly recommended but only after some hands-on entrepreneurship/exec/management experience and reading a few other "bibles" from the business books library.
The most important things to remember: treat your employees like adults, have a teachable value system, and be simple enough to remember the customer. It would also be easy to do away with bureaucracy, but we have to learn what goes into business today.For Weick and March, I salute you, Captains. (Heh heh!)
Quite insightful and all base on good research A must read. The research done for this book makes it quite practical. The entrepreneurship chapter is quite valuable and easy to implement.
Keep it simple: create a simple but encompassing set of rules and values and then treat people like adults. Give them freedom and support. Values should revolve around client, transparency, quality, respect, commitment. The 8 areas treated are summarized in the first pages of the book.
I was convinced at the time. Now I'm not so sure that it wasn't a trick. The apparent message is great but not so sure whether it was just a ruse. Sad. One of those seminal books along the way I guess.
the first part overly emphasize on literature review, mentioned about various theories in the part about management. It's not too bad and perhaps can be interesting to certain audiences. However I felt it's too dragging and the connection is not truly directed.
The examples are a little out dated, but its principles are good.
Great business book that explains what the greats do!
A more cluttered, less scholarly look than Michael Collins "Good to Great" into what makes organizations succeed.
A great book that provides 8 principles for a company to be excellent. It’s a shame that this book is almost four decades old, yet all of the problems of big organisations still remain...
The book is written by
