https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64683.Revolt_in_the_Desert
T. E. Lawrences classic history/biography of his involvment in the middle east during the War To End
This version of events is more accessible than Seven Pillars and most of the more outre episodes ( which people who knew him say were total fantasy) are not included.I re-read the book because one of my colleagues asked how Islamic State had been so successful in Syria and North Iraq.
Before I recommended this book to him I gave it a read just in case my old memory was playing tricks.But my memory was true.
Revolt in the Desert, is another account of Lawrence as a liaison Officer between Britain and Arab revolts, In fact what makes me write this review is that I got in touch with the poetic style that Lawrence used to express some psychological feelings. In reality this book should be picked in the best shelf of the British literature.
Fior di carriere critico-letterarie si sono costruite o infrante davanti al mito di Lawrence d'Arabia, e forse quando un editore sceglie di pubblicare un testo come Rivolta nel deserto, datato 1927, una prefazione sarebbe cosa buona e giusta.
Non l'ha pensata così Il Saggiatore, limitandosi a poche e imprecise righe nel risvolto di copertina e a una striminzita nota biografica (dove, tra l'altro, la fatale uscita di strada con la moto diventa un incidente «automobilistico»).
Tant'è che le tre righe di commento in quarta di copertina sono affidate a Winston Churchill.
One of my favorite adventure books that i have read since childhood. For anyone interested in the Arab world it is a MUST. No way around it. Incredible writing, unbelievable action, made all the more intense by the fact that it DID happen. Great introduction to Arab culture, habits, and viewpoints. All around a phenomenal book.
كتاب يحكي تفاصيل الثوره العربيه على الأتراك وأحداث الحرب العالميه الأولى ومابعدها من تحريك وتحريض للعرب على الأتراك بإدارة المخابرات البريطانيه !ووصولا إلى إتمام الوعد وتسليم فلسطينبعيداً عن الضيافة والعادات العربيه , مع لورنس تحديداً أحسست أن العرب أغبى شعوب الأرض, فالمطامع أوضح من شمسهم الحارقهكتاب يحمل من العار مايجعلك تكمله بعينٍ واحده:)
This text is an unnecessary abridgment of one of the most compelling and beautifully written non-fiction works of the 20th century, Seven Pillars of Wisdom. While fans and collectors of Lawrence's work may find the book of interest, new readers should disregard this text and direct their attention to Seven Pillars of Wisdom post-haste.
A vivid, first hand, account of a key period in modern history. A must read for anyone trying to understand and appreciate some of the background to the complex problems of the Middle East today.
لم يعجبني الكتاب ، فيه الكثير من السرد و التكرار للاحداث
Consequently it has many different variants on place names, often fails to clarify the vast array of characters in the Arab army or the overall development of the war.
The British under General Allenby based in Eqypt were fighting a conventional WW1 battle of artillery and massed infantry attacks against the Turks in Palestine.
At the same time he worked diligently with Allenby to ensure that the the two groups were fully coordinated and the Turks eventually pushed out of the Middle East.
"Revolt In The Desert", T.E. Lawrence, 1927.
Lawrence of Arabia suffered a fatal brain injury while riding his Superior.
Having survived a life magnetically drawn to adventure and risk, and well known for indulging in severe forms of masochism, I would think that Lawrence would have appreciated the aesthetics and the irony of being killed while touring the verdant English countryside on his Superior motorcycle.
"Revolt in the Desert" is great literature, but if given a choice I would opt for the 1962 film "Lawrence of Arabia" -widely regarded as one of the greatest motion pictures of all time.
- and by most accounts, probably more historically accurate than Lawrence's autobiographical "Revolt in The Desert".
This was the less detailed version of T E Lawrence's Seven Pillars of Wisdom , edited down from the original. Lawrence didn't want the general public to see any book by or about him, but he needed money after Arabia, to live on. He finally agreed to let this book appear but every time there was any publicity about him, even to promote one of his own books, he suffered desperately from the public exposure.
This is a memoir written by T. E. Lawrence ("Lawrence of Arabia") about his involvement with the Arab revolt during WW I.Well, I only made it about a third of the way through this book. It was well written, with colorful language. However, I lost interest. I guess there was just one too many long desert crossings without much happening.In the future, I may go back and try to finish it.
One of the best books ever written.“All men dream: but not equally. Those who dream by night in the dusty recesses of their minds wake up in the day to find it was vanity, but the dreamers of the day are dangerous men, for they may act their dreams with open eyes, to make it possible.” Lawrence has the ability to project full HD into your brain.
يبدو أنه كتاب رائع لم أستطع إكماله لعدم تمكني التام من اللغة الانجليزية :(
For those who find "Seven Pillars of Wisdom" heavy slogging
Good book!
Middle East,history,Arabs,Turks,orientalism
I absolutely love the movie Lawrence of Arabia (not just cause there are no women in it), and I'm quite intruiged by his writings, so I have to get to them.
Le témoignage d'un agent secret anglais pendant la première guerre mondiale, dont l'action va redessiner le visage de la région.
4 1/4 stars
In his telling of his efforts to help the Arabs rise up against the Ottomans, Lawrence vividly describes the dangers, but also the moral and intellectual challenges, he faced.
#10
Can never get enough of the life of Lawrence.
This is the one I read, I've heard the full version is better. Worth it for Auda alone. Warning, much different than the film.
Very interesting and exciting. Defiantly one of the greatest books of all time!
T E Lawrence is a fascinating character
Beautiful prose as well as everything else about it!
