https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76688.Robots_and_Empire
Robots and Empire (Robot #4), Isaac Asimov تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ژانویه سال 1994 میلادیعنوان: امپراطوری روباتها (کتاب 4 از سری روبات)؛ نویسنده: آیزاک آسیموف؛ مترجم: کامبیز شمس؛ تهران، شقایق، 1371؛ در 523 ص؛ چاپ دوم: با عنوان: امپراتوری روباتها، 1373؛ در 523 ص؛ موضوع: داستانهای علمی تخیلی از نویسندگان امریکایی - قرن 20 مسری روبات: کتاب 1: غارهای پولادی؛ کتاب 2: خورشید عریان؛ کتاب 3: روباتهای سپیده دم؛ کتاب 4: امپراتوری روباتها؛ این چهار کتاب را بارها و بارها خوانده و لذت برده ام؛ داستانی از سه جامعه ی زمین، اورورا و سولاریا است.
It’s always bittersweet for me to read since it is the last of the four Robot novels, and I will miss the characters (until my next reading in a couple of years!).
(As usual, this book can be read as a standalone book without having to read the previous books in the series.)This story, again, features Elijah Baley, the hard-boiled detective from Earth (although in a surprising way – no spoiler here!), and his robot partner, Daneel Olivaw.
Considering I read everything aloud to my hubby, you can imagine how difficult this passage is as I am choking on my words, sniffling, and trying to swallow around the lump in my throat as I read.
While listed as the last of the Robot series, this is probably better discribed as the bridge novel between the Robot novels and the Foundation series.
In it we see the beginnings of how the Galactic Empire got started and why there are no Robots in the distant future of the Foundation novels (except of course for R.
Daneel Olivaw) who becomes the only central character to appear in both series.In addition to being a pivotal novel in the Robot/Foundation series, it is also top space opera and a lot of fun (as I feel about all of this group of books).
It should be noted that I am a long-standing Asimov fan, so my opinion is perhaps not entirely objective.
Having said that, Robots and Empire stands out to me as one of his top works.
It serves to bridge his Empire/Foundation and Robots series; this is a dangerous venture, because there is always the risk of fouling one or both stories in the process.
The true focus of the novel is on the robots, which has always been Asimovs great strength.
Overall I highly recommend this novel to fans of either Empire, Foundation, or Robots.
I can't believe the Robot series is over.
Not only is it the ending of a series, but many things happened I didn't expect.
I loved Baley, Daneel and Giskard and it just wasn't the same without detective Elijah Baley.
When I heard that he died in the first chapter I immediately knew this was going to be a long trek to the end.
I was happy Daneel was still alive but it wasn't the same without the two together.
Overall, it was a great ending to a great series.
I will definitely reread this series in the future.

Like every other Asimov book, a snappy, fantastic read full of crisp dialogue and an absorbing plot with elements of sci-fi and mystery.
Real Ike Asimov Talk.So, Ike wrote all the classic books in the Foundation, Robot, and Galactic Empire books in the 1950s.
It's been a while since I've read the '80s Foundation books and I could stand a refresh, but my opinion today is that the latter two Robot books succeed where Asimov's '80s add-ons to the Foundation series failed.
In some ways, this novel, which clearly and explicitly links three of Isaac Asimov's series--Robot, Foundation, and Empire--is the development of a new law of robotics.
Daneel Olivaw (the classic Asimov robot) referred to as the "Zeroth Law." This law reads: "A robot may not harm humanity, or by inaction, allow humanity to come to harm." And this introduces a tension into the first three laws.
But it represents an effort by Asimov to begin to link his three mighty series: Robot, Empire, and Foundation.
The main focus (and also the most interesting part) is on the robots Daneel and Giskard and their debates on  The Three Laws  and the HUMANITY concept, giving them new and (un?)expected depth.A beautiful ending to the Robots series and a bridge to the following works in the Foundation Universe.
Here is the complete chronology:1 The End of Eternity (stand-alone) 19552 I, Robot (short stories) 19503 The Caves of Steel (Robot) 19544 The Naked Sun (Robot) 19575 The Robots of Dawn (Robot) 19836 Robots and Empire (Robot) 19857 The Stars, Like Dust (Empire) 19518 The Currents of Space (Empire) 19529 Pebble In The Sky (Empire) 195010 Prelude to Foundation (Foundation Prequel) 198811 Forward the Foudation (Foundation Prequel) 199112 Foundation (Foundation) 195113 Foundation and Empire (Foundation) 195214 Second Foundation (Foundation) 195315 Foundation's Edge (Foundation Sequel) 198216 Foundation and Earth (Foundation Sequel) 1986I would not recommend this book as a stand-alone read.
Bir önceki kitapla başlayan Vakıf serisine olan köprünün inşaatı bununla son buldu. Şuan hala kitabın sonunun etkisindeyim. Bu Asimov nasıl bir yazardır da yıllar sonra bile okunduğunda insanı böyle derinden etkileyebiliyor anlamış değilim. Şuan altını çize çize söylüyorum Vakıf serisini direk okumayın. Araya Robot serisini muhakkak ekleyin. Tam okuma sırasını yazımın sonuna ekleyeceğim buna uyun muhakkak. Kitap için birşeyi demeden de edemeyeceğim. Ulan Gladia kaşarlığın kitabını yazdın be :) Gördüğün her erkeğe insan - robot ayırt etmeksizin yavşamana alıştık ama Baley ailesinin ortak malı oldun be kadın. Az edepli ol edepli! :POkuma sırası:http://i.hizliresim.com/210X50.jpg
Es increíble ser testigo de la evolución de los personajes a través de la narrativa tan fluida de Asimov, no se sienten forzados los cambios de cada uno de ellos y se comparte su aceptación de sus nuevos estatus. Espectacular cierre de la saga de los robots y al mismo tiempo un excelente puente para lo que sigue. Voy a extrañar a cierto robot...
En todos esos años, obviamente, imaginó mundos futurísticos donde los humanos lograron expandirse por toda la galaxia, encontrándose incluso en algunos de esos relatos, con razas extraterrestres que ponían en mayor o menor peligro al hombre.Alrededor de los años 80, el gran Isaac, luego de años sin escribir sobre la temática, publica “Los Limites de la Fundación“, y decide que, debido a como se daban los giros de las historias, podría unificar los dos universos de alguna manera.
DNF @ 30%. Will pick it up later, not really upto reading this type of book right now.
sembrava quasi che non solo si definissero amici, ma lo fossero davvero."A volte, mi detesto.
Davvero, non saprei come altro definirli.
D'altra parte è vero che sono utili a me: mi sfogo, in un certo senso, riuscendo ad esprimere una minima parte e in maniera eufemisticamente sommaria tutte le emozioni che Asimov suscita in me.
Amore per due dei personaggi meglio riusciti in cui mi sia imbattuta in tutta la mia carriera di lettrice, Giskard eDaneel, che per me sono e resteranno i veri protagonisti del Ciclo dei Robot, insieme ad Elijah, e amore per la fantascienza vera che per ammaliare le folle, come mi piace ripetere, non può essere mai solo fantascienza.
When he pulled it off magically, mystically, unexpectedly and expertly I was astonished and became Asimov's biggest fan, reading everything I could find that he had written.
At that time Robots and Empire had not yet been written and I struggled through the years waiting patiently as he combined his Empire, Foundation, and Robot series.
Now, many years later I'm re-reading the 15-16 novels in the 'recommended' order and have now finished his Elijah Baley – Daneel Olivaw novels.
The first law which gets violated left and right, especially given how any violation of it should have put Daneel and company into permanent brain freeze immediately.Giskard endlessly complains of how using his powers is dangerous and must be done with extreme care, yet apparently keeps doing it on the fly to everyone he meets.What the end of the book sounds like: "Friend Daneel, I can give you this power, but it shall suck for you, so I won't.
I'm reading Asimov in a semi chronological order and this novel clearly propels the next step in the history of his universe, showing what triggers the formation of the galactic empire.One peculiar thing I found was how the focus of the novel changed from Gladia to the robots.
It seems to me to be premeditated, (view spoiler)[showing bit by bit how Giskard was actually running things and Gladia was, a lot of times, maneuvered as to enable him to fulfill his mission.
(hide spoiler)] By the end, Gladia seems like a minor character.The only negative thing about it was that some scenes overstayed their welcome.
او احساس میکرد که افزایش تشعشعات رادیو اکتیویته باعث ایجاد هرج و مرج در زمین ومهاجرین میگردد و به این طریق فضاییان میتوانند کهکشان را تصاحب کنند . کنار زدن زمین به عنوان یک کره پر جمعیت باعث از بین رفتن معنویات میشود و به مهاجرین کمک میکند . آنها با یک قدم به کهکشان وارد می شوند و یک امپراتوری کهکشانی برپا میکنند . امپراتوری رباتها .......................................................................( از متن کتاب )
Not my favorite. Certainly not the best of the Robot series. Large amounts of this could be excised and nothing would be lost. But I suppose we had to bridge the gap between the Robot books and the Empire books somehow.
Men create robots (supermen?), and then robots decide to destroy our world. For the "common good" of the mankind, of course.Allegedly we (the survivors after the robots-induced nuclear Holocaust) must build a Galactic Empire under the guidance of the same robots. Why?I hate it.
I SHIT MYSELF. This book was SO good and the best part was that I read the 1980s edition paperback and I had the best time ever. THE BEST TIME EVER. ARRRGGH.
Friends never say goodbyeThe events that lead to the current predicament of humanity in the Robot series beginning from I, Robot through Robots and Empire leaves the reader with a bitter sweet sense of success.
The Earth people are not considered as a tribe but more as a Holy Land or a land of disease ridden self-rejects.The spacers look at earth and the earth worshiping settlers as propagators if the earthly philosophy of No-Robots and advocacy of short life.
It is inevitable that the final task of finding out the mystery and eventually determining the fate of humans as a whole rests on the cold shoulders of two robotsGiskard and Daneel.
This is the last of Asimov's Robot books and one I really enjoyed and has made me want to read even more by him.The story continues the greater plot started, very lightly, in Caves Of Steel and brings in little mentions of several of the short stories as well. I didn't expect any of the short stories to make an appearance as I always thought they were just ideas about the same basic universe of robots and humans. It's more than that and discovering it made me smile.
In this one, the story is of course, still good but while the humans go about their business that makes up the story, the real story is that told through the robots Giskard and Daneel as well as Elijah, the sole human who has really important things to say for the overall series.
Asimov's theme is that the good of humanity as a whole is the ultimate good, that it is of more importance than the first law of robotics, that robots must protect a human over anything else.
The fourth and final book in Isaac Asimov's beloved robot series, "Robots and Empire" takes place many years after the death of Elijah Bailey, who has become somewhat of a galactic folk hero for his efforts in space exploration and colonization of planets far beyond the Terran solar system.
With the help of a telepathic robot named Giskard, Olivaw struggles with the turbulent political landscape of a galaxy torn between isolationist Spacers (humans who have lived off-Earth for centuries and feel that primitive Earthlings have no right to invade and infect the galaxy) and explorationist Earthlings, who dream of a universe full of terraformed habitable worlds.
More like a 3,5.
Was kind of tedious at times, but still interesting to see the way Asimov tried to tie together what happened at the end of Robots of Dawn with the birth of psychohistory, Earth going to shit, the galactic expansion and how the Second Foundation got their powers.
Also really enjoyed the continuing remarks about the danger of Spacer stagnation (and stagnation in general).
Living TOO comfortable can't be good for anyone.The end felt way too rushed.
Like before I knew it, the book was over.
Wasn't sure if I should feel angry about it being too fast or sad about Daneel.
While I did eventually get absorbed, this last book of Asimov's Robot series didn't live up to my expectations based on the first 3 books. Perhaps it was the lack of Elijah Baley, but the novel felt more like Asimov's attempt to bridge the gap between the previous books in the Robot series and the Foundation series and less of an individual plot.
Leider nicht ganz so toll, wie die anderen Teile. Elijah Baley fehlt eben doch.
Storyline: 4/5Characters: 2/5Writing Style: 3/5World: 2/5Asimov manages a surprising level of consistency across his Foundation and Robots books.
The Caves of Steel had the best worldbuilding of any of the others, Foundation and Empire poorly handled just about everything, whereas Foundation and Earth had the best characterization of both sets.
I had enjoyed the last entry into the Foundation series more than I enjoyed the previous four, and likewise enjoyed this concluding Robot book more than I did the first three.
I read through the Foundation novels in the order they were published and then the Robot books in their publication chronology.
