https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/183660.Fairest
When I read a book, especially when I read fantasy, I find myself mentally putting myself in the place of the protagonist.
I had a hard time enjoying this book at all to start with because the protagonist and I could not be more different.
Maybe he could have come to be attracted to her with time and as he got to know her, but with the way this story is set up, I'm finding it very hard to suspend my disbelief for the entire length of it.Anyway, the idea of a country where everyone sings instead of speaks as often as possible and birds fly around in the halls and make messes on people seemed pretty ridiculous to me.
But Levine paints the two characters so you can see how one, in coming to accept herself as she is, finds happiness and bestows grace on those around her, and how the other, in hating herself and trying to be other than what she is, ends up destroying the kingdom.
She finds her appearance so offensive that she believes that she causes pain to anyone who has to look at her.But another character, Ivi, is so obsessed with the idea of beauty that she actually does begin to destroy people in order to appear to the best advantage.
The title of this book suggests that the story would be a fantastic tale about a beautiful young girl in distress who is the fairest of all waiting to be scooped away by a fine handsome prince.
But that is not the story of this book at all which makes it really unique especially that the title totally negates the actual description of the main character and of the main conflict of the story.
I liked that the main character is not those stereotypical female heroines in fantasies.
I also like that there are no total makeovers done in the character despite her imperfect physical characteristics.
The idea was interesting (a take on the story of "Snow White" where her desirable trait isn't beauty, but instead is her singing voice), but the execution was horrible.The book staggered under one major inconsistency: the main character is horribly ugly, but the prince falls in love with her very quickly anyway.
Aza had none of these - she was whiny, miserable, thoughtless, and full of self-loathing throughout the entire book.Also, the prince likes her almost immediately, before he has any chance to get to know her: this would suggest to me that either the prince has horrible taste in looks, or that Aza really isn't as ugly as she constantly tells us she is (which would only make her whining all the more exasperating).
I wish I could give it 4 1/2!Fairest takes place in the same world as Ella Enchanted, and has one or 2 characters from that book, which is excellent, because that book is one of my most favorites.
The story Snow White is the way it is because she can throw her singing voice???
The connection to the classic story made this story worse, whereas the connection to Cinderella made Ella Enchanted better.Another reason that I wanted to give it less than 5 stars is because there are a lot of songs in the book.
It was great being in Ella Enchanted's world again.
Fairy Lucinda has done it again but instead of having a gift to obey like in Ella Enchanted this time it’s a magic mirror.
What Aza has that all other Ayorthaians don’t have, is the gift of "illusing," of throwing one's voice and mimicking the song or speech of almost any other person, which she invented by starting to hiccup.
At the end Queen Ivi is exiled from her crown and Prince Ijori and Aza get marriend and live happily ever after.
I would recommend this book to anyone definitely because its just good if you have read Ella Enchanted you can see that these to books are great and interesting.
I love Ella but I feel like with Aza there is so much more like Levine simply stepped everthing up a notch.
I think people tend to see fairy tales as having to be about the pretty princess getting the handsome prince and happily ever after, but personally I love fairytales because they can call into question what is beauty?
What is love?
She gets swept away from the Inn of those who raised her to the castle and there meets the beautiful new queen who is her polar opposite, only attractive on the outside or so it seems.
Snow White is a story that doesn't necessarily appeal to me.
It's about beauty and jealousy and the cliche evil stepmother.
Fairest is an incredibly subvervise retelling.
The main character is not beautiful, and the queen is not jealous of her beauty.
She's not a flawless, saintly character either.
I like the message sent here around beauty, that everyone is beautiful to someone.
Snow White has such an emphasis on beauty, and it was nice to see that subverted.
VERDICT: Gail Carson Levine's retellings are truly so amazing, and I'm so glad I read these as a kid.
I don't love Fairest as much as Ella Enchanted, but I still find this is one of those classic fairy-tale retellings that deserves repeated reads. I've read this one quite a few times but apparently it never occurred to me how much of a Snow White retelling it really is. And how young Aza is...
Sequel to the Newberry Honor Award-winning Ella Enchanted and a retelling of Snow White, completely its own, Gail Carson Levine's Fairest tells the story of Aza -- a young woman with hideous looks yet a voice to make up for them; abandoned at an inn when she was a child.I really enjoyed Ella Enchanted, so I had rather high expectations for Fairest.
As interesting as Ayortha's musical culture was, it wasn't enough to make me fall in love with the kingdom.I do think I'd recommend this book, though likely more so after one's read Ella Enchanted, so they'd have a better knowledge of the setting.
Fairest makes for a fun little read, and would probably be enjoyed most by pre-teen girls.
I love how it's based on Snow White, but the author went in-depth with the story, and the plot is much more complicated; Levine took Snow White and revised it, making it a better, more interesting story.
She took the flat characters from Snow White and made them round and three-dimensional.
For example, instead of making the queen completely evil and power-crazy, she made her insecure, foolish, weak, slightly barmy, and easy to manipulate.
Everything horrible that the queen does, it's either out of stupidity, insecurity, or because someone else convinced her to do it.
Snow White moment!" The story idea is really creative, and it's very nice.
Apparently being beautiful and being able to sing are the only things people care about.
Her family hides her away in the tavern (not really, she acts like a fool if anyone sees her and most people don't seem to care and or know her) until a Duchess needs Aza to accompany her to the royal wedding.
So even though Aza is so ugly that she can make death die, she is still invited as companion (this made zero sense to me and I don't care enough to fixate on it).
The world she has created is charming with it's many fantastical creatures and Ayortha's music-based culture, and I know Aortha is only one small part of the world.I enjoyed many of the characters too, Prince Ijori probably being my favorite.
Aza herself was a good character too, though I probably would have related to her more when I was much younger and still struggling with self-image issues.
It was enjoyable and all, but the story didn't truly suck me in until around the time they were headed for the gnome cavern, and that was a good 3/4ths of the way through the book.
It was delightful to experience a similar setting to Ella Enchanted (view spoiler)[(Areida was the main character's younger sister!) (hide spoiler)] even though it was only a neighboring kingdom.
I loved the dear, sweet king Oscaro; and Aza's parents were some of the best book parents I've read about in a while.
Although the romance wasn't as realistic as the one between Ella and Char, it was really sweet and (view spoiler)[I loved Prince Ijori even more when I discovered his very first opinions of Aza (hide spoiler)].
As Aza grows older, she develops a beautiful singing voice.
I enjoyed Aza for the most part but her preoccupation with beauty was a bit annoying at times...
Prince Ijori's interest in and immediate love for Aza didn't make must sense considering she is apparently hideous...
He also turns on her very quickly even though he is apparently so in love.
I did like the overall message that beauty is more than just looks and I think it gets it across in a fun and entertaining way!
Fairest is a nice and entertaining retelling of Snow White, and I would have enjoyed it a lot more had I not believed it would be as good as Ella Enchanted.
I liked Aza's gift of illusing but I believed it could have been used in a much more interesting way than it was done.Another thing I noticed was that, in Ella Enchanted, Prince Char wrote a letter to Ella in which he commented Ayorthaian nobles hardly ever spoke, but in this book, the nobles seem quite talkative to me.
This book was somewhat charming in that typical YA way, except I couldn't help compare it to Ella Enchanted, and it didn't measure up.
The main character (Aza) is very ugly and unlike most YA where ugly isn't ugly, she's described as actually not attractive.
I knew almost nothing about her character other than that she hated being ugly.One of the awesome things about Ella Enchanted was that GCL showed us Ella and the Prince falling in love.
In Fairest, I had no idea what attracted Aza to the Prince.
I'm curious to read another GCL book to see if it is more like Ella Enchanted or Fairest.
I thought I'd just read for a hour or so before bed to make sure my bedtime snack had enough time to settle.
When I picked up this book at the library, the summary didn't sound too terribly interesting, but then I saw it said 'set in the land of Ella Enchanted.' (Or something like that.) I remember reading that years (way before the movie ;) ago after one of my sister's recommeded it, and I really liked it, so I thought I'd give this one a try.
:) I look forward to reading more of this author's work (and she may become one of my favorite authors!)I would definitely recommend this book!
This story was set in the world of her older book "Ella Enchanted" and was about the older sister of Arreita.(I'm sure I didn't spell that right.) A spin off of the fairytale Snow white, this was a nice, new rendition of the old fable.
I love how Levine intertwines the original stories of snow white and Ella Enchanted with interesting new characters, settings, and plotline.
Also, as usual with Levine's writings and fantasy books in general, there were ogres, gnomes, a magic mirror, etc.
The story is set in the same enchanted universe as Ella Enchanted, and halfway through, the reader realizes that this one is loosely based on the Snow White story (or at least the one I learned thanks to Walt Disney).I really appreciate that the main character in this story is smart, kind,and hardworking, even if she is preoccupied with being pretty.
But ok, what teenage girl is not preoccupied with being pretty?
The protagonist of this book is not just sitting around waiting for her prince to come.
Listened to this. The full Cast Audio production is AMAZING! They actually sng all the songs. I was humming them afterwards. It was like watching a musical.As for the story, fun but predictable as fairy tale retellings often are. I found this one, being in the same world as Ella Enchanted to be totally entertaining, though.Very heavy-handed with the whole beauty isn't everything etc. message. Overall, if you're going to read this book, listen to it instead!!
An interesting twist on the Snow White fairy tale.
AWESOME!!!!!!!!!! This is a really great book and I recome it to all of you!
El libro empieza mal, estamos en un reino donde lo que más se valora es la belleza y la habilidad para el canto ¬¬.
En concreto, nuestra protagonista tiene una gran virtud para el canto, pero es fea.
Su máxima aspiración en la vida es ser guapa, se siente ofendida porque hay algunos que la desdeñan por ser fea, pero ella es la que más valora la belleza, la pobre es simple como un vegetal.
Por si esto no fuera poco, terminas el libro con la sensación de que no pasa nada, cada vez que va a pasar algo interesante, de repente desaparece.
Aza herself is likable enough but the use of lengthy song lyrics in place of dialogue slows what is already a plodding story and I found myself simply skipping over them.CIP Summary:In Ayortha, singing and beauty are prized above all else.
The Queen forces Aza to use her voice to deceive the entire court.From Booklist:Levine slowly reveals that the roots of the richly imagined story are cleverly tangled in the fairy tale “Snow White.” The telling, in Aza’s voice, is sophisticated, and readers may initially feel like foreign travelers who lack cultural context.
I wanted to start this off with "Don't judge a book by it's cover", because that really is the underlying theme of the book.
Fairest was everything I wanted and more, (and still is).
I completely related to Aza, as I've delt with self confidence problems, and eating disorders, and everything she felt about herself completely resonated inside me.
Aza's journey to find self confidence, and to believe that she is beautiful in her own and special way, is both moving and extremely motivational, and I often pick it up when I need a confidence boost, or just to enjoy the beauty of the book.
Snow White was never a favorite fairytale for me. It still isn't. But... Oh! This book was awesome!! Mrs. Levine takes every liberty you possibly can use with fantasy and brings it to a whole new level. The creativeness is pure genius. I was on the edge of my seat for the whole book and that ending... Oh wow. On a note of caution though, there were a lot of things I was uncomfortable with, but I felt that since it is fantasy that gives enough liberty to the make believe.
Blah. Were the editors interns? Levine's writing style is plain, but I can forgive that if the characters are fabulous, but they weren't. I suppose the plot was fine; it kept me turning pages, but in the end I was disappointed. She had the makings of a great book, but I'm thinking that deadlines kept her from flushing away the weeds that seemed to crop in all around her...
I think maybe this one was just a little too young for me. Or maybe I'm just too pickybut I didn't like the music parts and all the singing. I've never been so glad I didn't have the audio book. This one just isn't for me.
This story has a bit of the Snow White story in it, but it had an undertone of evil that was really disturbing. And the audience includes young teenage girls. It could have been building and inspiring to the youth, whereas I'm afraid it ended up being just the opposite.
