https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4909.Teacher_Man
Teacher Man is as good example as any that if you have wit and personality you can tell an entertaining story. Told with an Irish accent helps too.I think McCourt, with his humble yet playful, self-degrading Irish charm could read from the phone book and hold a reader's attention. But he has lots to say worth hearing, as he recounts thirty years of teaching in New York's high schools and community colleges. A working class, blue collar teacher in the trenches, McCourt helped me better appreciate teaching as a profession; this is an enjoyable book.
While I appreciated McCourt's attempt to recognize teachers (especially English teachers) and the work (often underappreciated) that we do, I felt that his theory of if we all "think outside the box" and try to be friendly with our students, than we will have a successful teaching career, a bit unrealistic, overly idealistic, and in many ways, condescending.
I do think this is a more honest perception of teaching (especially the first part where he is working in the "tougher" schools during his first few years) than many other movies I've seen that try to portray teaching.
My fourth book by Frank McCourt and I am still impressed.Teacher Man (2005) is the last book of his 3-part tragicomic memoir and it is about his experiences as a teacher in at least 3 schools in New York.
He spent 33 years teaching high school students before he retired at the age of 60 and wrote his first book, Angela's Ashes at the age of 66.
vocational and technical school (McKee), adult education - teaching English to immigrants mostly mothers(New York City College of Technology) and later in the Harvard-equivalent for high school in the US: Stuyvesant High School where only the brightest high students are admitted.
Тут должен быть какой-то осмысленный восхищенный текст с цитатами, но я закончила книжку и грандиозно реву, что автор умер и больше ничего никогда не напишет.
At first, I was a little disappointed, because the book went by so fast.
He summed up 30 years of teaching in a little over 200 pages.Then, when I thought about it, I realized how much it made sense.
I've only been teaching for five years, and at times, it feels like forever, but at the same time, it's gone by so fast.
There are many times when I feel like a fraud as a teacher, but I know that if I tried to write like McCourt, I'd come off sounding whiny.
He manages to do it sounding sincere.
I libri hanno l'anima Caro Frank, è ormai la terza volta che ti scrivo, ti do del tu perché ti conosco da quando eri un moccioso e vivevi a Limerick, e anche se sei morto professore a New York, io ti ricordo così, come quell'infelice infante irlandese e cattolico.Siccome ormai abbiamo la confidenza adatta, e non mi piacerebbe essere disonesta nei tuoi confronti, te lo devo dire, ho pianto per le prime trenta pagine di questo ultimo libro.
You understand that, don't you?” La magia del libro es que no busca ser una guía de lo que debe de ser un profesor, sino explicarte cuales fueron las características que a el le funcionaron.
ese anecdotario es algo que se puede repetir tanto en las aulas de una secundaria de New York como en las de una universidad en Sinaloa (donde soy docente).“This is the situation in the public schools of America: The farther you travel from the classroom the greater your financial and professional rewards.”Nos sirve para recordar que un profesor no es un trabajo mas, sino que es una actividad que trasciende las aulas y la función del profesor marca a los alumnos para bien y para mal.
I read this book years ago, at the start of my teaching career.
I can't remember if I was student teaching or if it was my first year, but nevertheless, I was a newbie.
I actually started reading it again forgetting this was the Frank McCourt book I had read years ago.
He had to have touched on some of the curriculum throughout the year, but I suppose those stories may not have been as engaging.What I did not appreciate was his manner regarding his marriage.
The best part about the book is the stories about students and their lives.
Onvan : Teacher Man (Frank McCourt, #3) - Nevisande : Frank McCourt - ISBN : 743243781 - ISBN13 : 9780743243780 - Dar 272 Safhe - Saal e Chap : 2005
It’s like listening to a witty, self-deprecating yet passionate man tell you stories of his life.
McCourt talks about his time as a teacher; how it came about, his successes and failures, his talent for telling stories.
She was one of Frank’s students at Stuyvesant High School and talked about him with such enthusiasm I just had to read his side of the experience.
So I smiled when I came to this line in Teacher Man‚ “Susan Gilman never raises her hand.
He loved sharing his enthusiasm for literature and writing, and it’s evident from these pages that he was a terrific teacher.
One thing that was nice about it was that it was a memoir that happened to be about a period in his life when he was a teacher -- i.e. that happened to be about teaching.
It clearly wasn't a "teacher memoir" in the traditional sense.McCourt came off as a compelling teacher, because he is almost certainly a compelling storyteller and a compelling person to listen to.
There were also years when I imagine he wasn't a very good teacher.
i hated this book. i didn't like the style of his writing. i didn't like the way he talked about his teaching and what he did in his classroom. as i kept on reading, i was just like- dude- you are not a good teacher. but maybe it's just the way he presented himself.when i got to the end, i was like- so. what was the point? but i guess the point was that this is part of his life story.
Mr. McCourt's efforts to help students find a path through education to a better future were instructional and inspirational.This is a book that often comes up when teachers are together discussing their calling.
It paints a true picture of modern urban schools and provides relevant and important information about the challenges we face when we are called to "leave no child behind." The book can be an inspiration to those who teach in urban settings and a source of new understanding for those who puzzle at today's debate on education in America.
This is my favourite of Frank McCourt's books.
I found Angela's Ashes just too unremittingly bleak.Teacher Man is not all about teaching as it tells of how he lives in New York before accidentally becoming a teacher.
Anyone who's ever been in a classroom and especially teachers will 'enjoy' his descriptions of being in a room with a group of kids who would rather eat dirt than listen to him.
McCourt writes with the honesty of someone who has actually done all he writes of.His advice to a new teacher is great: 'You have to make yourself comfortable in the classroom.
I loved -- no, adored -- the first section of this wry, honest memoir.
It should be the climax, I guess, except that this is more memoir than novel, but what it really is, is too swift.The quotes on the back cover say Teacher Man is the best in McCourt's trilogy (meaning it supposedly surpasses the Pullitzer Prize-winning Angela's Ashes).
Now, I have not read the two previous memoirs, but if McCourt's too-brief conclusion to Teacher Man leaves me hanging after one 250-page book, I have to wonder if I wouldn't have liked it even less if it were the capper to THREE 250-page books.Still, Teacher Man is impossible not to recommend.
I do not like this book.
I should read it," and "He wrote 'Angela's Ashes' which people seem to like, so I'll read it." I wish I'd left it alone.
I actually bought the book for someone else, but then I decided to read it myself and give her something else.
I'm glad I didn't give it as a gift.Frank McCourt was a high school teacher in New York and is an immigrant from......Ireland!
He was actually born in America, but his family moves to Ireland, and he moves back again.
His writing makes it sound like he's really full of himself.
McCourt seems quite self-obsessed in this book.
E' il primo libro di McCourt che mi capita di leggere, anche se Adelphi ne ha pubblicati altri due, sempre autobiografici.
La prima parte è molto divertente, brillante, si simpatizza subito con questo "povero" professore costretto ad avere a che fare con branchi di alunni adolescenti senza controllo.
La seconda parte è invece più frammentata, non so se fosse stanco di scrivere, ma sembra aver riunito alcuni ricordi su vari alunni e situazioni grottesche, educative, buffe, strazianti, e averle riunite in sequenza senza un filo logico molto lineare, ma merita di sicuro di essere letto.
But his pre-teaching days, particularly the overly strict Catholic education and the years spent working the docks, gave the book context.
The Stuyvesant section was definitely my favorite part, not just because he had mastered his style as a teacher by then but because he was teaching creative writing.
Since I dream of teaching and writing, it was inevitable that I’d like this book, but Frank McCourt is such a skilled storyteller, I think anyone would like it.
Non è così appassionante e coinvolgente come Le ceneri di Angela, ma lo stile è ugualmente molto scorrevole, con la solita vena di ironia; l'ho letto tutto d'un fiato, nonostante sia un racconto non unitario, ma un succedersi di tanti episodi legati comunque tra loro dalla vita di insegnante di McCourt.
In tutto questo mondo McCourt si trova coinvolto sempre in prima persona e io stessa, come insegnante, mi sono lasciata coinvolgere, ritrovandomi a volte ad arrabbiarmi per la poca convinzione di McCourt nel suo lavoro, per la sua indolenza, ma altre volte a condividerne gli obiettivi, considerando ogni alunno un pezzo unico da rispettare e anche amare e sempre comunque ho invidiato le sue grandi qualità di "affabulatore".
The 3rd book of the Frank McCourt series is an inspiring book about his 30 year teaching career. It describes how he found his voice by teaching Creative Writing and all of the other classes he taught in the many different schools he taught. It was in the last school he taught as a teacher for creative writing, after 30 years of teaching, that was instrumental for him write his first highly popular book, Angela's Ashes about his childhood in Ireland. I recommend this book as part of the series of his life.
"Teacher Man" opens with a hilarious Prologue that would seem quite self-serving if written by someone other than Frank McCourt, in which he reviews his star-struck existence in the nine years since the original publication of "Angela's Ashes".
But before we get there, we're treated to a spellbinding account of his all too brief time as an adjunct lecturer of English at Brooklyn's New York Community College, and of another short stint at Fashion Industries High School, where he receives a surprising, and poignant, reminder from his past.
I've always loved to read about teachers' experiences and methods, so Frank Court's Teacher Man perfectly matched my horizon of expectations, so to speak. It was emotional, entertaining, interesting and, of course, instructive. I especially liked the apparently random memories, and the fact that he insists upon personal events only when they have an impact on his teaching. I think it would have been a joy to see him in front of his students with his unorthodox but such efficient method of teaching that his students didn't even know they were taught. P.S. I definitely have to read Angela's Ashes!
Cuốn này mình thấy không hay như mong đợi lắm. Chắc bởi mình thấy mấy chuyện tác giả kể cũng thường thường, hoặc do nhà mình cũng liên quan một tí đến giáo dục. Đọc cứ thấy lê thê, dài dòng không đáng có nên mình drop luôn.
Much of his early teaching involves telling anecdotes about his childhood in Ireland, which were covered in his earlier books Angela's Ashes and 'Tis.He then taught English as a Second Language and took some African American students to a production of Hamlet.
He spent most of his teaching career at Stuyvesant High School, where he taught English and Creative Writing.He earned a Teacher of the Year award in 1976.
Tụi nhóc phục lăn, nhưng sau đó anh bị hiệu trưởng gọi ra khiển trách vì...dám ăn trưa ngay giữa lớp lúc 9h sáng.Bắt đầu từ câu chuyện đó, nhân vật tôi - thầy Franck McCourt kể lại bao nhiêu kỉ niệm làm thầy.
Ông nhận ra rằng tất cả thư xin lỗi mà lũ học trò đưa thầy, với chữ kí của bố mẹ, hầu hết đều do các em dùng trí tưởng tượng vô biên của mình viết nên, với những lý do rất kì quái và sáng tạo.
but i am grateful for this book, and moreso for frank mc court writing about everything he chose to detail in all three, angela's ashes, tis, and teacher man with the voice with which he chose to portray them - humor.
exactly which part of this book didn't people get?
I LOVE YOU FRANK MC COURT, FOR GIVING ME PEACE OF MIND AND REMINDING ME THAT I SHOULD ALWAYS, ALWAYS WALK INTO THAT CLASSROOM WITH MY SENSE OF HUMOR IN TACT.
I had read this one before, but decided to listen to the audio version from the library because #1 it's good, and #2 it's read by the author. Hearing the author made it even better the second time around. His accent is great, and his sense of humor comes through better on the audio. A couple times, as he tells a story, he chuckles, and it's so great I had to rewind to hear it again.
There is something comforting in knowing that students were always apathetic and wanting distraction.
No es mentira que dar una clase suele ser una lucha y, en palabras del autor, no porque los alumnos sean malos, sino que porque son humanos y se aburren y además son muchos, mientras que el profe es solo uno, solitario frente al aula.
No es culpa eso último, en todo caso, de McCourt: éste no hizo más que cumplir con el sino de todos los seres vivientes, nacimiento, crecimiento, declive y despedida y además contarlo, y contarlo bien.
McCourt describes the fears every classroom teacher has - can I keep control?
How do I manage to discuss personal & intimate things with these confused people, and yet maintain the right boundaries?He talks a lot about the anxieties of teaching, and the rewards, but he also spends a surprising amount of time talking about his personal relationships - his girlfriends, his wife, his mentors.
But McCourt shows that there's no way to teach without using personal experience.
McCourt is right - when you're teaching, the classroom has little to do with pedagogical theories or trends.
