https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/198289.Fields_of_Fire
James Webb's intense novel about Vietnam, Fields of Fire was mentioned in Rachel Maddow's Drift and it was this recommendation that made me want to read it.
Snake reached his hold again and called for the Doc. No Doc. He screamed again.
Still no Doc. He despaired of Doc and pulled the lone battle dressing off of his own helmet, hatting Marsten for leaving his up the hill.
Marsten screamed as if in torture when Snake's fingers slid along the slick wet inside of it." (p.
James Webb's book has the feeling of authenticity without succumbing to bland condemnation or justification.
What he told us after he were through with this recording was that his CO, James Webb, had written a book about this very firefight and other portions of the Vietnam War in a book called Fields of Fire.
Three days later, just before one of my brothers was set to leave, my father presented all of us with this book.
I have read many Vietnam novels; the topic is one of fascination and horror for me.While I read this book, the tape recording of the firefight was its soundtrack.
And let me be the first to say, this book is more than just a war novel.
this is one of my all time favorite vietnam war books... which sounds a little wrong to say, but every time i read it ( ive read it 3 times now) i become so engrossed in the characters that i feel as though im actually there.... which is kinda of scary when you think about it.definitely worth a read, particularly if you have a relative who is a vietnam vet

James Webb is one of my U.S. Senators so I thought I would read some of the books he has written and found Fields of Fire.
If you went through anything in the Vietnam era like that, you will probably find yourself somewhere in this book.
That Webb puts this thought in the woman character's mind makes a big difference in my mind.Now at the end of the book they are talking about marriage based on their relationship of several days.
But, now that I have read The Book, I wonder if I might not agree with the criticism but forgive Mr. Webb since this book was written in another era.
Jim Webb, former USNA alum, Marine officer, former SECNAV and current Senator from VA. Taught English at USNA. Excellent account of small unit leadership in Vietnam.
James Webb was one of the most decorated U.S. Marines that served in the Vietnam war and his experience brings brutal authenticity to his well crafted novel. Webb has gone on to serve as Secretary of the Navy and is currently a U.S. Senator from Virginia. None of that takes away from the power of this novel of war.
Highly influential in my decision to join the Marine Corps. A tale about Vietnam, but really, a story about society's estrangement from a war and the people left behind to fight it.Jim Webb (D, VA) was one of the war's most decorated Marines (Navy Cross, Silver Star, Bronze Star with Oak Leaf Cluster and Valor Device, Purple Heart with Oak Leaf Cluster) and is now serving as the junior senator from Virginia.
Probably expresses my feelings upon returning from Vietnam better than almost any other book I've read.
Reminds me of the "Platoon" movie & "Chickenhawk" book.
I took my sweet time getting around to reading this famous Vietnam War novel ...
Over time, we came to admire those who answered what they felt to be the call of duty.I use the word "duty" intentionally, because James Webb exemplifies it, both in his novel and his career in government and politics.
and Goodrich's father speaks for James Webb (I think), lecturing about duty, but this is a mere page in what is otherwise the most intense novel of ground warfare I have ever read.This book.
But Webb is also savvy enough to know that there are also villains to be found with patriotism on their lips, and this type of character makes an appearance, as well as the paperpushers, careerists, leaders from the rear, and uniformed pocket-liners who inevitably evidence themselves just far away enough from the field of battle.It seems unlikely that anyone who can write as clearly and plainly as Webb will be able to endure the insanity-inducting process of a presidential campaign, especially pitted against the entrenched interests of the two dynasties who are responsible for the situation we find ourselves in.
"Fields of Fire" a realistic Vietnam war book by James Webb, in the perspective of James Webbs experiences in Vietnam as a foot soldier in the "bush".
I felt this way because I got to learn about who they were, James Webb pretty much made me bond with these strangers so that I had genuine brotherly feelings for these men.
The book does eventually clear up so the beggining being confusing doesn't hurt the story.All in all this book is a great way to see how soldiers endure[d] war.
Awful. Couldn't finish it. I am surprised at all the terrific reviews. I felt the writing skill to be sorely lacking.For a quality Vietnam War fiction I would rather recommend such books asMatterhorn: A Novel of the Vietnam War and The Things They Carried. the writing quality of Fields of Fire compared to top shelf novels such as those two..well, it's like chalk and cheese.

The junior senator from Virginia's brutal look at the Vietnam War. Plenty of war-related depressing brutality, but the real downer is how, in Webb's view, nobody on either side - hawks or doves - really cared about the guys who had to serve, or understood them.
It was a polarizing moment in American history, but what Webb reminds us is that many of the men who fought the war wound up unable to relate to either side of the great cultural divide.
Serving in combat, Webb seems to be telling us, renders one unable to relate to anything else or to interact with or understand ordinary people back home.
I'm giving myself cool points for reading this book BEFORE he was my senator. This book is a good example of how good fiction is based on fact. In this case, Webb's experiences in Nam. He doesn't shy away from the naughty bits either - I recall he caught some criticism for describing some underage prostitution but hey, props to him for keepin' it real, especially since he was a politician when he was writing it.
This is how it really was and I know, because I was there with the author.
This is a book I read and reread when I was in high school. I'm finally tossing out my old nasty paperback copy, but I wanted to make sure I marked it here as read and awesome.
The BEST Vietnam fiction available. Fields of Fire is one of my favorite books.
Run-of-the-mill police fiction.
‘What the hell is Shit-head talking about?’ ‘School.’” But the stereotyping is only partial, and Webb does endow most of the primary characters with some nuance: most importantly, they’re believable.In fact, “Fields of Fire” reminds me a bit of “Band of Brothers” the TV show, in its focus on one unit, the switching between different perspectives, and their ambiguity: while showing the horrors of the battlefield, the destruction of the human body, and (FoF more than BoB) the problematic morality of warfare, just as “Band of Brothers” wasn’t anti-war, so “Fields of Fire” isn’t anti-military (the latter is on the Marine Corps recommended reading list, while the first is screened to cadets at Sandhurst, for example).
Field of Fire is an extremely well written novel about the Vietnam War experience for American combat soldiers.
The story is powerful and captures the conflicting points of view of the soldiers fighting the war.
The book is compelling in many ways but is saddening because it rings so true with soldiers reciting their experiences.
I rate this book 4.5 stars and the best Vietnam War novel I have read.
Recommended reading for anyone who wants to understand Vietnam in ways and the senseless nature of that war at the ground fighting level.
My review is the opposite of a spoiler. It is a recommendation for people wondering if they want to read this book. This is not a beginner book on Vietnam more like a graduate level course on the war. If you don't know the difference between a M-14 and a M-16 or between red tracers and green tracers or between an OP and a LP this would not be where you want to start. That said I wonder if a reader would understand many of the emotions that are on full display.
Now comes James Webb’s Fields of Fire, a Viet Nam book published in 1978—32 years before Matterhorn.
Officers seek rank and promotion, grunts seek survival.The one common element of every great Marine combat book I’ve read is the importance of the team.
Fields of Fire is very like Matterhorn—tough combat experiences, fragging the sergeant, the raw lieutenant growing up, the futility of the war, the commanders’ love of medals and disdain for losses.
Both are powerful books, but if you want a great one-two punch on Viet Nam, read Fields of Fire first, then Matterhorn.
One of those books I read in about four days because once I started it I couldn't put it down.
The characters are complex and you get attached to them.
The structure of the narrative is well done, that is the chronology, which goes from present to past in ways that allow you to get to know a character more intimately before something jarring happen are brilliant and cinematic.
The novel is very cinematic, but fully fleshed out in a way that only a novel can be.
I have to wonder if Stanley Kubrick was influenced by this book when he made Full Metal Jacket.
Very BelievableAn historical novel that, because of the authors real world experience rings as non fiction. I was surprised at the grittiness, the realness of this very good book. I will read more of Jim Webb's writings.
Enlightening. This was historical "fiction," but Mr. Webb fought in Vietnam, as a Marine, so I suspect there may be more history than fiction written. I had two combat tours in SEA, the first as a USAF combat controller in 1965 northern Laos, the second as a fighter pilot in 1968 Vietnam. My grunt tour was physically demanding, but nothing compared to what the Marines experienced.
I've never learned much about the Vietnam war, so am looking forward to this read.Update:a hard book to get through.
A little bit of their personal history here and there.
I was hoping for more philosophy / history about it...not so much the blood and guts.....
I can't believe anyone comes home from war in one piece>mentally, physically, spiritually.....Finished the book...the author did a good job representing the general life and feelings of a soldier...one who is gung ho, one who should not have signed up and is a disaster as a soldier, those who get killed, the mother who waits for her son's Medal of Honor that is never awarded.
Hard to read because, well, war is hell.
This was a great book, but extremely difficult to read. It very adequately takes the reader into Vietnam and describes the psychological make-up of a group of soldiers in the midst of extreme conditions. One by one they are killed or maimed fighting in unspeakable conditions in a war that was not winnable. Juxtaposed is the very few who re-enter a stateside situation filled with the apathetic, anti-war activists and draft dodgers. The book certainly adequately describes attitudes in the US during the war.
