https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13619.Death_Note_Vol_2
=)Look at my Funko of L =) I wanted to get Ryuk too but they messed his up.
I don't like how it looks one bit and that makes me mad because he's so cool.
I want them to take down Light!
And then when he killed someone I liked and I'm guessing killed the person that would have come the closest to catching him, I wanted to scream bloody murder!
Although, I'm hoping that in the next book that person will be like: Surprise!
Anyhoo, I'm loving these books (like I said) and can't wait for more!
These books honestly remind me of like a Sherlock/Moriarty thing going on and I'm 10000% sure that's why I'm enjoying them so much.
So I'm just going to list some things I particularly enjoyed in this volume.THINGS I LIKED:• The art, as always, is A+• We get WAY more of "L" in this book...and he's like this detective recluse who's a bit odd, too honestly.
He's really going dark side now (har har considering his name) and is under WAY more pressure.• I'm under pressure.• THIS WHOL BOOK IS PRESSUREFUL.• I'm actually terrified of Light getting caught, but kind of hoping "L" is smart enough at the same time?????
Tsugumi Ohba, you have me in awe!This is the second volume in the Death Note series and continues following the story of teenager, Light Yagami, who is the current owner of the Death Note - a magical notebook that can be used to kill all those whose names are written within the pages.
We were introduced to new characters, the mysterious L from the first volume was revealed to us and we got a more in-depth look into the minds of Light's enemies, who are the police force, which includes his own father.It is a unique perspective to read about a murderer and yet feel totally aligned to his cause.
What this series lacks in overall believability it makes up for in plot twists and interesting characters. The portrayal of women is still odd and not my favorite, but at least there was ACTUALLY a female character this volume. Still raises some very interesting questions about morality and I'm curious to see where the plot goes.
Quickly falling in love with the fast pace -- it's crazy how quickly L works. And there's only twelve books in the series! Onward to #3
Typical Light being toooo smart. Unrealistic but who cares? And L <3
Manga okumamıştım daha önce, Karşıyaka'daki çizgi romancı kapalı olunca başka yerden manga alayım bari dedim. Eşek gibi 12 saat çalışmaktan vakit kalmadığı için bu tarz çabuk okunan şeyler okumak motive ediyor. Hoştu tamam da Penny Dreadful'un 2. sezonundaki her bölüm gibi çok ani bitiyor sanki. Bir tane mantık hatası yakaladım ayrıca bu ikinci kitapta ama hatırlamıyorum şu an dasfdgfhg Karakterleri sevmedim. Light'ın ilk başlarda düşüncesi güzeldi ama sonra yoldan şaştı. Töbeler olsun dedim.L.... Yahu bu çocuk gölgeler içindeyken iyiydi, bu kitapta açığa çıkınca ne o hareketler öyle lan? İsterik isterik hareketler... Bir de dedektifmiş adfsgdh bi siktir.
*That Geez tho*Just kidding.The story and the characters develop a lot and it's nice to see some cool supporting characters.There are a lot of twists and great lines which got me thinking a lot.Also,this is probably my favourite Death Note video because he sounds like a dying horse(also,the Spanish and Korean version just crack me up).Just thought you should know this.Bye.
I want a shinigami as a home pet!
Great!
I'm really starting to get into this series but Light is starting to pee me off this how he just bloody knows everything!!
He's 17 for God sake and he knows how to manipulate an intuitive FBI agent into giving her real name??
And instantly knowing he's being watched in his house due to all the booby traps he puts in place every time he leaves his room; you're telling me none of his family ever goes in his room or has never notice this routine of his?
I'm still enjoying it but kind of wishing Light would get his come uppance because he's turning into a bit of a dick!
αρχιζει και μου τη δινει στα νευρα αυτος ο Λάιτ...
Light can't get more Dark...Specially with his encounter with "The Woman";Naomi Misora, a woman who wanted Justice..to who killed her fiancée..A woman strong enough to Detect who can be Kira..Yet she just went to him...
it's brilliant really but yet so dark..And a Woman, Naomi Misora, way out of this investigation team is aware of the dark plan from the beginning of this volume, yet she didn't know for sure..who is Kira.She tried to help her fiancée yet he won't listen...
The obsession is real at this point. Found Naomi quite annoying though. Quite enjoying L if ya catch my drift. If you haven't started on this series yet then what are you waiting on.
Gods of death are addicted to APPLES? Haha. Great!
I'm so addicted to this. It keeps getting more and more intense. Although I admire both boys for their intelligence I have to say that I'm team "L". He is weird, whereas Kira is more the antihero or something like that. I am eager to know what he will do next but I cannot approve his actions.
ahhh, war das spannend - und die Verfolgungsjagd um Kira soll sich echt über 12 Bände ziehen??? Ich werde sterben!
It was more slower paced and there didn't seem to be a whole lot of development - Light was still killing people, L was still trying to catch him out, people were still wondering WTF was going on.
I didn't find Light as interesting either.
I would have liked a bit more conflict or depth in his decision to kill off twelve FBI agents.
Unimpressed.I hope Naomi (the missing FBI agent) turns out to be alive, she was smart, and it seemed like she could hold her own.
#JapaneseJune Book #6.The tension is really amped up in this volume, and it's only the second installment to the series!
Sometimes I have to wonder how he manages to remain to calm and collected - I don't know if I like him as a person but as a character he's incredibly intriguing, way more than L in my opinion.I'm excited to try and get my hands on the next two volumes, as I've never read past this point before and I'm enjoying my reading experience of this series a whole lot more the second time around.
Prica se fino nastavlja ali ima par stvarcica koje radi glavni lik koje mi nisu legle pa samim tim nisam bas tolko uzivao kao u prvoj knjizici. Plus prica na momente postaje suvise zamuljena bez vece potreba samo da bi se pokazalo kolko j ko pametan. I dalje ima finih ideja ali na momente je nekako suvise... juvenile.
4,5 Sterne
4,5/5No puedo parar de leer ! Esto de leer mangas en nuevo para mi, pero se leen TAN RAPIDO y me tiene tan atrapada
Tag along as this story gets even darker and more twisted as Light and his Shinigami friend travel even further down the rabbit hole.I’m really glad that I started this series.
But, that didn’t stopper any of my enjoyment.One thing that enhances the plot, like always, are the characters.
Although I do enjoy the critique the author is trying to get across, I love that it’s subtle and told in a not-shoving-it-down-your-throat and exciting kind of way.Overall, I recommend this book to those who liked the first book in the series.
Death Note, Vol. 4: Love
A failed bus-jacking leads to Raito getting to know the name of the FBI agent who was following him.
She is the fiancée of the FBI agent that Raito comes in contact with.
She comes in contact with Raito while she is in the Police Headquarters and is waiting to give some information regarding the killings.
She seems to have deducted everything correctly with regards to the bus hijacking and has an idea about the identity of Kira and as luck would have it, she divulges this information in front of Raito himself.
This just got a whole lot interesting. I love the concept and I love the story. It's intelligent! I can already tell that this is my new favourite.
Il piano di Light è stato geniale. Terribile e geniale. Amo questo manga！
L 'nin tatlılığına bakar mısınız?
noluyor oğlummm
BooktubeAThon: 3/7.STILL TEAM L.
Tak to bylo něco! Nevím komu mám fandit víc.
