https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25553227-shadowfires
Koontzland Group Read - December 2017    Read Koontz in December: this is #3 out of 4   - doneA good chase-and-escapes book with scenes never ending. In Orange County, California - Dr. Eric Leben(42) & Racheal(30) are leaving their divoice lawyer's office. Dr. Eric Leben has been 1 year separated from his wife, Racheal. He is seen being hit by a garbage truck as they both walk out of the lawyer's office. Eric's dead body is transferred into the hospital morgue. But then missing when the mo
In Orange County, California - Dr. Eric Leben(42) & Racheal(30) are leaving their divoice lawyer's office.
Dr. Eric Leben has been 1 year separated from his wife, Racheal.
Was he the "test" to bring dead humans back to life, himself after the crash?Typical last scene, Dr.Eric Leben, Anson Sharp (DSA agent), Lt. Verdad, Det. Peake, Det. Shadwat, Racheal & Ben fight to the end - who gets killed.
Does he really get killed?And an unusual end to a Koontz book.....(view spoiler)[A romantic love scene with Racheal & Ben.On the road back to Orange County, they talked about when Ben proposed to Rachael in Palm Springs.
If you're a horror or psychological thriller fan, you'll definitely want to read this! Shadowfires is like a more modern version of The Monkey's Paw, and it's so creepy! I loved its old-school campfire story style, really far out. :)
. .Before long Rachel and her new love interest Ben are on the run from a resurrected Eric and men who will do anything to keep Eric's status a secret.Koontz has always been hit or miss with me and I'm sad to say that this book was more of a miss.
Hey, he may be rotting and smelly but at least he has more life left in him than boring self-satisfying Ben. Oops, I think I just turned this into a Richard Laymon novel.Anyway now that I'm completely off track, I'll just end this by saying that I would have enjoyed it more if it had focused more on the changes Eric the "monster" was going through and spent less time on the snoozy chase scenes.
Inside the book are a bunch of illustrations to go with the stories.It just so happened that the public library in Carol Stream managed to get at least 4 of these titles added into their collection.
Finding this book, for me, is a huge deal, and it is in AMAZING condition!So now I have it, and the hunger for the others grows.As of this writing, before I have started my re-read of this book, I realize that this is one of the Dean Koontz books I have nearly no actual memory of.
A good horror story must have characters you believe in and feel for.
I hate it when the main characters of a horror novel are "dumb" and miss the obvious solutions to their problems- that did not happen here.Nor did Dean Koontz leave any obvious plot holes.
It was easy to feel myself in the characters' shoes and they did, in every case, what I would have done (and even sometimes things I would not have thought of) Shadowfires was a good adventure story, a cat and mouse chase with multiple players which rocketed along until a huge confrontation at the end, and I found that confrontation to be satisfying.
After the initial shock wears off, Rachel gets incredibly paranoid and hangs out with her boyfriend Ben, actively not telling him things.
It gets a little silly from there, blending unlikely genetic theory with bizarre theology on the afterlife.
It's a chase story through and through, with Ben and Rachel spending the bulk of the book not telling each other things while fleeing Eric, the local cops, and the feds.
Koontz is usually good for quirky characters having bizarre adventures, but this time he was a little short on the adventure part.
It's a pretty basic creature feature.
Once the plot is set, you know what you're going to get; there isn't much in the way of suspense.
This novel revisits Koontz's obessesion with secret experiements and genetic tampering.
The characters are same basic stock you'll find in any of his work and the writing is lackluster and annoying.
The plot revolves around a guy coming back from the dead and mutating into a lobster or something.
So we're not breaking any new ground here, but still, it's more atmospheric than some of his other novels and not unreadable.
The only book by Dean Koontz I've ever read that I detested!
This is the kind of story that drew me to Dean Koontz, his finest works are filled with very possible terrors, things that could happen in our world, and each tale is spun in such a way as to cause a very real emotional response from the reader, be it horror, disgust, or fear.
For a time this story gripped me in a way his work hasn't done in a long time, right up until the very real became slightly absurd and fantastical.
No words for this masterpiece ❤❤❤❤❤
No words for this masterpiece ❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️
The strong points that i like of this novel were 1º The intelligent reflections of the war of Vietnam of one of the characters the patriot Ben Shadway (recently i am interested to read "The Lost Mandate of Heaven: The American Betrayal of Ngo Dinh Diem, President of Vietnam" was written by Geoffrey Shaw about the figure of the catholic president of South of Vietnam Ngo Dinh Diem) in this novel Koontz wrote a lucid analysis of the Vietnam War and the the disaster consequences of the exit of United States of Vietnam, and Camboy, 2º I like the critc of Dean Koontz to the villains of the story Anson Sharp, and Eric Leben.
Then the body disappears from the morgue, two girls turn up dead, and it seems Eric Leben may not be as dead as once thought.Spoilers...The opening chapters of the book are excellent, giving us characters to care about and a very interesting mystery.
They never even see Eric, and his sneaking around isn't handled well because we don't know he was doing that until after Rachael leaves.
The two main villains of the story, Anson Sharp and Eric Leben, are an abuser and a victim of abuse, respectively.
It's a story about chase, exhausted in all its forms: a woman runs away from her ex-husband, good cops go after mad men, haunted pasts attempt to wreck the present, a lunatic sweeps a trail of secrets, a monster flees from his humanity, and love pursues the probability of surviving despite the odds.But I'm making it sound much better than it actually is -- this is one of my least liked works by Dean Koontz.
Even minor characters get to have a back story just so their late heroic acts by the last few chapters can be justified.What I wanted more of, and have appreciated in great detail, was how Eric has transformed from human to monster.
Not very good at all.In the late 80's and early 90's, I devoured Dean Koontz by the fistful, probably reading 16 to 20 of his books (some of which I actually debated upgrading to hardcover editions) in a 5-year time span before finally burning out on him thoroughly and completely.Now, as I reread one of these novels every year or two, I wonder what the hell I was thinking?
When Dean launches another detailed description of interior design or landscaping flora or clothing by brand-name, something inside me starts to giggle.
I mostly skimmed it, ignoring the subplots about the detectives (human interest) and the government dark ops (horror) and stuck to the main plot: what to do if your abusive controlling soon-to-be ex-husband comes back from the dead and mutates into a giant iguana?
I would have been more than happy to just stick to the suspense of whether or not her husband had come back from the dead but apparently that wasn't enough.
Koontz writes beautifully timed suspense though, he is a obviously a master of leading the reader further on with will-they/won't-they/what's- next/do-they-get-away and I have to admire him for doing that quite well.
Published in the late 80's,this tale of genetic engineering gone horribly wrong could be something read in the newspaper in just a couple of years.
When a brilliant and powerful man with a fear of hellfire discovers a genetic life extension mechanism using experimental rats, he throws all of his resources into perfecting it.
Much to his amazement, not only do the genetic modifications extend life but they also resurrect the dead experimental animals.
However, once brought back to life, these rats behave in odd violent ways leading ultimately in their second deaths.Unperturbed he ventures on.
A man and woman, recently romantically involved, driving, running, and crawling away from a sadistic killer linked to secret government work.
The ending, while satisfying for the most part, is dragged out particularly long, and I feel a lot of the energy was gone at around page 300.Still, not a bad book.
The villain in this one is a genetic scientist who is killed in the first chapter, but is able to come back to life, constantly mutating, due to an injection of his own new serum that the government organization known as the Defense Security Agency is highly interested in.
My rating is 3.5 stars.This novel is about what happens when man is not careful with science and it goes amok.
This book had a mixture of horror and thriller.
The first half of the book was really enjoyable as it was more suspenseful and enticed me to continue reading.
The second half veered towards the horror aspect and lost its pace of suspense.
That is the reason I knocked down my rating from 4 stars.
I would recommend this book as it crosses all genres of horror, thriller, and and little of science fiction.
I am really starting to love Koontz's writing.
This is a great read, completely worth your time.
Koontz seems to have a thing about good vs.
evil, with both being active, personified forces.
It's a rare thing in today's writing, when "evil" is often merely the absence of "good", or where the "evil" inhabits more of a moral gray area.
This was written in Koontz's early years, and is also published under the pseudonym of Leigh Nichols.
While the villain and heroine are both clearly portrayed within their roles, it doesn't have the strong spiritual undertone that pervade his later books, such as Darkfall.
Actually REREADING...Just KNEW this had to be Dean Koontz or Stephen King.
Great story all together, but my favorite characters are Jerry Peake and Julio Verdad, (Spanish for Truth).
They really ARE the whole book and why I was REREADING.
I have a hardback with JUST Leigh Nichols listed as author.
What interested me was how stupid the cover looked for such an intelligent book.
The cover is DUMB, like some 70's bad op art.
When I first read it I felt sorry for the author to be packaged so inappropriately.
I guess I can stop feeling sorry for freakin' Dean Koontz, the millionaire.
Koontz...Not my usual bear of an author or a book.
I read Koontz for fun & escape.
This one is fast & good.
I've read quite a few of his books.
I think this one is extra good.
It's well written and will make you think....without you even realizing it.
Exciting is not a good enough word to describe what's going on in this book.
Pick it up, just start reading it and I know you'll be flipping through it always wanting to know what happens next.
It's the kind of book that makes me wish I could just put the whole thing in my mind at once.
I never understood all the criticism of this book, I found it to be very good. It tells the story about a woman named Rachel who is close to divorcing her husband, Eric. In the middle of a heated argument Eric is killed by a speeding car. When Rachel returns home she hears that Eric's body has disappeared from the morgue. If you like good horror novels with good character development, I recommend this book.
Lovely woman is divorcing wealthy man, not taking ANY of his vast wealth. Outside the courthouse, he's grasping her arm too tightly, and they argue. He walks away in a rage, and is hit by a garbage truck. Too bad that's not the the end of it. He and his company have been up to some top secret stuff. Stuff that brings life threatening danger from two sources, and the police can't offer any help or protection. This nailbiter will keep you up!
One of the worst - read a number of year ago and forgot about it. Absentmindedly grabbed it as a book on tape for a 12 road trip because there was nothing else to listen to. Thought I was gonna crawl out the window. Complete silence would've been better than listening to "Raaachelll...." over and over again ....ugh
Not a bad read. Messing around with the natural order turns around and bites you. Been done before, but the book is a fairly good read and has one of Koontz's character types...guy who loves "old stuff". Nice hook. Enjoyable.
This was the first Dean Koontz book I read, it was really, really good and i rented every other of his books from the library until I was upto date, then started buying them as soon as they were on sale! Would recommend reading this, its really fast paced and difficult to put down.
Almost at the end but I cant wait till this book is over. My personal opinion is this may be one of the bottom barrels of mr. Koontz. Enuf said…!
Despite enjoyable descriptive passages, it's a completely mediocre effort. I thought of it as a draft of Koontz's later novel "Midnight".
Very good. I actually read this in May of 1993, but cannot seem to correct the date read block.
See my review of "The Watchers" for my feelings about Koonz's Standard Cast of Characters. This one fit the same mold exactly, except it DIDN'T have a super-intelligent dog.
