https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/354259.Fail_Safe
“The world is no longer man's theatre. Man has been made into a helpless spectator. The two evil forces he has created- science and the state- have combined into one monstrous body. We're at the mercy of our monster...”  The Big Board from the 1964 movie.As I was making my way through the public school system in the 1970s, they were still doing duck and cover drills. In retrospect, of course, these drills were absolutely worthless except as an effective way of convincing all of us that our lives
To those of us who lived through it and felt the haunting spectre of war hovering over every international crisis, this book confirms every worse fear that we experienced while living in a nuclear unstable world.
I watched the excellent 1964 movie right after reading the book.
One of the more interesting and abhorrent characters in the book is Professor Groteschele (played very well by Walter Matthau in the movie), who shares end of the world scenarios at cocktail parties with the intention of leaving those listening to him shocked and disturbed.
Love the front cover graphics on Fail-Safe, admittedly that's what drew me to it, but this war thriller is just as vivid and evocative in its content as it is in its cover. It's an exciting story that will have any reader questioning the world around them.
I couldn't have said it better myself.Fail Safe was originally written in 1962 - a time of terrible uncertainty when it comes to nukes and the cold war.
Not having lived through the Cold War, I apply a muted post 9-11 fear over the entire era to capture the mood.
Knowing the outcome of the Cold War, it may be easy to trivialize its place in history as inconsequential - but that's just Monday morning quarterbacking.Fail Safe does a fantastic job of realizing and capturing the fears of the moment in the moment as well as outlining the consequences for humanity.
As the US president and Soviet premier (openly referred to as Khrushchev) attempt to deal with the crisis, it is clear that a psychological spiral of long-standing mutual distrust and perceived escalations have made the situation worse, creating circumstances that compound the crisis as it is learned that an understandably suspicious Soviet military leadership has already jammed radio communications on the US nuclear bombers that are on their way to attack Moscow as the result of a mistaken “go” order.
Την εποχή που κυκλοφόρησε το βιβλίο, ο ψυχρός πόλεμος ήταν στα ντουζένια του και δεκάδες σενάρια με πυρηνικά ολοκαυτώματα και ολοκληρωτικούς πολέμους ήταν στην ημερήσια διάταξη.
Σίγουρα δεν είναι το πιο καλογραμμένο θρίλερ που υπάρχει, σε μερικά σημεία πλατειάζει και σε άλλα κουράζει λίγο με τεχνικές λεπτομέρειες, στο σύνολο του όμως πρόκειται για ένα άκρως ιντριγκαδόρικο μυθιστόρημα, το οποίο κατάφερε να με συγκλονίσει με την ρεαλιστική εξέλιξη της πλοκής του.
Σίγουρα είναι ένα βιβλίο που δίνει μπόλικη τροφή για σκέψη, ακόμα και πενήντα χρόνια μετά την πρώτη κυκλοφορία του.
Before there was Tom Clancy, there was books like this: guesses at doomsday scenarios and nuclear Armageddon brought about by the increasing escalation in the Cold War. Written in 1962, this novel, emblematic of what became an entire genre, attempt to warn us of our own impending destruction because of the out-of-control nuclear arms race that existed at the time.
While it’s very preachy, it raises some good points and, if nothing else, provides a valuable look at the mindset of the time period.The basic plot is that a group of bombers on a fairly routine mission, standing by to attack Russia in case anything goes awry, fails to receive a cancel order, and proceeds to begin an attack course to launch nukes on Moscow.
The movie was remarkably faithful to the book even attempting to represent the most unfilmable of all the books threads, the matador dream of General Black, with great visual skill but without narrative success.
They decent composites of a few well placed real life figures of that time who genuinely believed, and sometimes said so publicly, that a first strike while a large numerical and delivery advantage was still in hand was overdue and that if in the smoking ruins of civilization there were two of them for every one of the enemy it was a victory, and one well worth winning.
The King Solomon-like deal that Kennedy made in this book was as melodramatic a climax as I have ever read.I gained a new appreciation for what every President since Truman has had hanging over his head like a Damocles sword.
I am still a pacifist, I still believe in nuclear disarmament, but I have got a more realistic idea about the possibilities of my dreams for our planet and mankind coming true.Hands down the most relevant book I have read this year.
Most people think we are relatively safe from nuclear weapons.
That couldn't be further from the truth.
There are way too many nukes floating around out there.
Having been in Special Operations I applaud those whose duty it is to defend our country, but it is inevitable that a nuke will go off, most likely inside a container in a port city.
Since they exist, they will be used.There is also the possibility of a mistake as outlined in this book.
Yes, mistakes happen.
How many times we've been to six with nukes will never be known.But we'll know when we hit seven.
Surprisingly not too dated. Sure, the Cold War is over and the chance of a mechanical malfunction triggering global thermonuclear war is minimal -- but the world hasn't changed that much.
This new era of duck-and-cover suggested a reading of this classic book, first produced as a magazine serial during the Cuban Missile crisis.
"Then we would have trouble," Groteschele said with a laugh.As new characters are introduced in the early chapters, a flashback brings them to the current day.
The early chapters are also jargon heavy, giving name to the technology of the time.
The middle chapters ramp up the tension and work well, and the finish is perfectly revealed at the last moment.From what I remember of the classic film, the tension is higher and Groteschele (played by a very serious Walter Matthau) was perfect.
Tis novel written short time after the cuban missile crise ,when the USA president was Kennedy and t
I grew up with the Cold War being a real, active, living thing. Duck and cover drills, discussions of mutually assured destruction, and eventually the Star Wars program. Then it all went away. The dangers became smaller, individuals and small groups became the enemy, rather than an entire nation half the world away. The fears of Failsafe were once very real. This is a short, intense novel about the failures, and in this case, unfortunate successes of systems designed to take the human factor out of the decisions of power and nuclear destruction.
An epic anti war novel that builds tension from the beginning and maintains it to the very brutal end.
Each reacts to the potential end of the world in his own way.
It defies reason to believe that the people who created the technology that could deliver a "Go" command without fear of it being intercepted or falsified could not also build a box that could deliver a "Recall" command.
Not likely to be a pragmatist when facing the end.An excellent cold war novel from a time when the threat of nuclear annihilation was a clear and present danger.
Al principio un poco aburrido pero el final es impactante. No tenía muchas expectativas, pero sin duda fue una buena experiencia. en las partes de tensión, puedes escuchar tu corazón latiendo y piensas: "Oh Dios, ¿de verdad?. Lo pueden leer, al principio es aburrido pero sin duda se vuelve emocionante al final

While reading this book, it's hard not to smell Burdick's cigarette burning and the clack-clack-clack of his typewriter. Anyway, it's an awesome read and beats the shit out of the teleplay CBS did in 1999...Also, this is the first in a series we have dubbed "The Kedzie Classic." To become a "Kedzie Classic," Brandon, Marty and I must all have a turn of it within 72 hours. It's a pretty exlcusive club. So far it's this book, Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade, and Linda Davenport. Then again, I didn't finish with Linda...ba-zing!
I saw this as a motion picture with my dad at Park Ridge's Pickwick Theatre when it came out in 1964. Soon thereafter I purchased the text at the downtown bookstore on Prospect Avenue, read through it once, then, impressed and having a new tape recorder, read it through again, aloud. This wasn't all that long after the Cuban Missle Crisis, a series of events I'd followed closely. The threat of nuclear holocaust was present throughout childhood.
The book is mostly like the 1964 movie except the characters are a little more filled out. The end is more moving in my opinion than the movie. See my updates for more about the book.
(view spoiler)[It involves the speed of the Vindicator bombers and the speed of the Russian fighters and missiles.
Perhaps I am making assumptions on the speed of the Russian missiles based on comments in the book that are less clear than I think, and that is what is making me confused about this Russian "slow missile." (hide spoiler)]On a sided note, I added it to my "technothriller" shelf as it does have some discussions about advanced technology in it.
This is the scenario of Fail-Safe, which was written in 1962, amidst the hysteria of the Cold War. The natural inclination for both Americans and Soviets at the time may have been to focus their fears on "the other side" as the primary threat to their continued existence, but the forward-looking had started to consider whether perhaps the opposing powers' reliance on nuclear deterrence and computerized defense systems might be an equal or perhaps greater danger.It is fascinating that despite the era in which it was written, this story has no villains.
The interactions between the Americans and the Soviets are portrayed in a manner that is strikingly humane and sympathetic to all characters.
The book contains more "personality exposition" for a few key characters in the early chapters than is necessary to meet the needs of the story.
It is a chilling story of how distrust and overconfidence can lead to unintended and deadly consequences.
Page by page the reader is taken through the results of how a very simple and undiscovered flaw results in a squadron of bombers invading the Soviet Union at the height of the cold war and the panic and political wrangling that follows as leaders try everything in their power to stop while others see it as an opportunity to prove themselves correct and destroy the Soviet menace once and for all.
It is inspiring story of leaders and soldiers working with enemies to try and avert the possible nuclear apocalypse.
Holy ffing moly.
What an astonishing read.
Read it out in a few sittings.
Its a breathtaking account of what could have been, described with the utmost accuracy.
Written in the hottest years of the Cold War, just after the Cuban Missile Crisis, Fail Save shows in great detail how JFK and K would have handled the terrible error thats described.
must read for policy makers with their hands at the red button.
I hope the current POTUS will never end up in the situation thats sketched in the book.
Cold war political thriller written in 1962 - right at the peak of the Cold War. Fast-paced and really exciting. The plot is easy to follow and quite believable, and the president's solution at the end was unexpected, but made a lot of sense. Even today, computers are always prone to bugs, and the threat of accidental war is always there. Presumably the authors-political scientists-know what they're talking about in this novel, but I feel that they're a bit gullible and overrate the US military and policymakers (maybe it's normal to be over patriotic during that time).
What a thrill ride. Really well laid out and compulsive book. I really liked the mixture of thriller, history and creative impulse. The writing was crisp and frank, the characters both anachronistic and contemporary, and the general layout and flow was all well suited for the enjoyment of the book. Nicely done.
Mutually assured destruction. That's what nuclear war between superpowers does and this book conveys the idea flawlessly. I'm not big on war thrillers, but this one is a must read. These days where we have almost normalized the concept of being at war with someone, somewhere, and all it takes is escalating one step further to cause an end-of-the-world scenario to occur.
Quite dated, but the writing is interesting and refreshing. Cold War classic, and it underscores how much privilege and responsibility come with the resident of the Oval Office. Gives one pause.Sadly, we're not much 'safer' today, despite the considerable advances in technology. Human fallibility is on display with the gravest of consequences. The ending was unexpected.
Review title: Cold War Archeological digI previously read and reviewed Little Big Man, which might seem to have no connection to a slim novel of Cold War paranoia about accidental nuclear war, except these:1.
The assumption that the biggest weapon in the arsenal would always be used, that it would render the world mostly if not completely unlivable, and that it would cure mankind of war forever, has been conclusively proven false.So Fail-Safe really reads like Cold War archeology, and doesn't stand up well as a novel.
Engaging, fast-paced and relevant even though it was written in 1960s. I was blown away by the ending.
Fairly interesting read with a completely ludicrous ending.
