https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/374247.Odile
An ex-soldier and mathematics obsessive returns from expeditionary duty in Morocco to Queneau's milieu par excellence, Paris.
But what Odile is really about, beyond the mocking of dialectical materialism and the ridiculously phony intellectualism of "artistic revolutionaries" in 1930's Paris, is how difficult it is to quit the childish habit of defining yourself against things, and accept that being normal is not only not so bad, it is also something that takes a great deal of intelligence and effort and humility.
That a good life is not necessarily an exceptional life; and that to choose happiness takes actual courage.
Can Queneau write a bad book?
Another installment in Queneau's trilogy of romans à clef.
The other two novels, The Last Days and A Hard Winter (translated to English but hasn't been reprinted since 1938!) re-imagine Queneau's youth in a bittersweet and often self-critical way.This novel is about the perils of trying to live a unique and different life to everyone else.
No matter how hard the protagonist tries, how mathematically he orders his world, he can't escape his feelings for the bland-spoken Odile.A satire on the Communist movement in 1930s Paris (and attack on Breton's Surrealists) is also here in all its teeth-bearing splendour.
Except, Raymond Queneau is very French, and Odile is so French that it almost have been a nouvelle vague film by Truffaut or Godard.Roland Travy is a fellow traveler who lives on the edges of communism as he hangs out with a bunch of pseudo-psychics with Marxist pretensions, centered around a strange mesmerizing figure named Anglares with his long hair and pince-nez.
(But they never do, do they?)Odile Clarion is a young woman in Roland's crowd toward whom he feels drawn in a vague way.
Eventually, Roland realizes the shallowness of his life and actually develops some feelings for Odile.This novel makes me want to read more by Queneau.
Odile is probably most valuable as a fairly clear statement of Queneau's position amongst his less respectable peers of the time.
There's little of the extreme creativity and intellectual absurdity of his other works present and I think it's pretty easy to understand what his reaction to the ismisms (yeah -too much 10CC lately) that have survived in the lazier art history books of our time might have been.
Having said that - I really did enjoy this brief and clarifying read - I understand the writer a bit more now but am looking forward to more time with his less linear works.
Pensavo di averlo perduto molti anni fa questo libro, e nella futile vita di un lettore tutto ciò equivale a un microdramma, invece oggi è ricomparso all'improvviso. Se fossi un demente newage saprei dare una risposta a questo scherzo del caso, invece mi tocca star qui a chiedermi se venti anni e più di polvere lo abbiano reso un potenziale portatore microbi omicidi. L'odore c'è tutto. Per cui non lo rileggerò, ma lo ricordo perfettamente, quindi qualcosa vorrà dire.
This was instance whre it looked as if Three Stars was the destined outcome before the Author brought one back in stoppage time. Queneau shined when he pushed aside his scathing satire and exhibited honest insecurity and sentiment in the final 30 pages.The Surrealists and Marxists received equal abuse in this curious vehicle. It is a witty triumph.
A main character who tries his best not to turn his life into a love story and, at the last moment, realizes his error, much to my relief.
3.5. As a huge Perec fan I'd built up unrealistic expectations for the Oulipo's founder. This first encounter was inevitably a slight disappointment, partly due to what seems a clumsy translation in places. Somewhat effective as a satire, finally effective as a coming-of-age tale, it features one brilliant page-long Oulipian list of revolutionary groups: the phenomenophile co-materialiststhe dialectical telepathiciansthe unreformed piatiletkian fellow-travelersthe revisionist anthroposophiststhe discordant anthroposophists(etc etc)
Queneau is refigured as Roland Travay, a fairly laid-back quasi-antisocial layabout with math on the mind who becomes embroiled with communists, thugs, and most of all a fictional version of the Surrealists (whose dictatorial overseer André Breton becomes Anglarès within the pages of the novel), while at the same time slowly coming to terms with a self-defeating intellectual blockage manifesting itself as a kind of amorous neurosis.
More than two thirds of the novel is given over to an often funny, occasionally heavy-handed, critique of Surrealism and early 20th century French intellectualism.
But this critique is book-ended by Queneau's ideas about creativity, literary experimentation, and the dangers of rigid thinking, which completely recast the rest of the novel for me.
Instead of reading it merely as a rejection of innovation and game-play -- Travy returns to his combinatorial mathematics shortly before he returns to Odile -- I read it as a rejection of play for the sake of play and doctrinal certainty in any area, but especially in art.
A relatively straight-forward narrative marked by frequent conversations ranging between ironic and earnest in tone, usually covering multiple sides of some idea. The love story gathers momentum slowly, with Odile remaining peripheral for much of the story while Roland Travy grapples with past shame, present unhappiness, and a group of constantly feuding literati who bear a pretty obvious resemblance to Breton's surrealist group. Even without the love story, the crispness of the sentences would have kept the young-man's-self-discovery narrative from toppling under its own weight -- but I'm glad it's a part of the novel, nevertheless.
Un Queneau dimesso, una Parigi fantasticaPiccolo romanzo quasi autobiografico, narra del distacco del protagonista, nella Parigi degli anni '20, dai vuoti movimenti dell'avanguardia intellettuale e politica (il surrealismo di Breton) e della sua tribolata accettazione dell'amore per una donna (Odile), a lungo negato in quanto "banale" e "borghese".E' un Queneau un po' dimesso, anche nello stile di scrittura, che tuttavia si legge volentieri immergendosi nell'atmosfera di straordinaria vitalità di quella che era allora la capitale culturale del mondo.
For much of this book, I was carried along only by mild interest. But, by the end, I was moved it away I haven't been in a long time by a book. I feel that there is much in this book for me to learn about my own life. I will come back to it again until I have learned it.
Entretenida novelita que parodia con muy buenas maneras los grupúsculos literarios, en este caso el creado alrededor de André Bretón y su surrealimo, pero extensible a hoy día sin duda. Es también y pese a todo una novelita de amor :-P
Interesting (and encouraging): without the trademark puns and surreal quirkiness-- or, I guess, with only indications of them, as they were being developed for full use in later books-- Queneau was a pretty mediocre novelist This early book is dull, and kind of a mess.
altro brillante racconto di Queneau su come le relazioni umane vengono influenzate da ciò che le circonda persino dalla politica ma tuttavia l'uomo rimane alla fine il solo arbitro del proprio destino! Sartre e l'esistenzialismo docet!
Un roman qui manque résolument de structure et qui passe d'un thème à un autre sans achever de denouer les brins de chaque peloton.Quelques fils passionants quand même et un personnage au final attachant surtout dans les 25 dernières pages du roman.
Five star for the brilliant satire of Breton's little court and the formidable precision of the style, from a writer who was still in his thirties.
Finiti
How does one search for meaning in a world where humanity feels bankrupt?
These are the questions at the heart of Queneau's novel about a young man in Paris during the years following the first world war.
The cast of eccentric characters who populate this novel embrace the politics of socialism to satisfy their unhappiness.
But they never embrace the ideals of the movement, only the idea of being part of the movement while they find ways to subvert it and turn it into a game that attempts to create meaning, purpose, and amusement in their lives which feel rudderless.

Scelto perchè viene citato in Bande à part, ma l'ho trovato una trememnda delusione. È uno di quei libri francesi che emanano ennui.
