https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27208.The_Third_Policeman
This review has been removed by the Conformity Police According to our legal advisers, the review matches the forbidden category of ‘non-review’ in all relevant aspects and has therefore been placed in review detention.
For a guide to conformity, see Footnote 1.'Non-reviews' interfere with their books in what we consider to be highly suspect ways.
That this innocent book should have been the object of so absurd an attempt on its virtue is in itself absurd and only underlines the utmost necessity of our intervention in this matter.We advise our loyal supporters to read this proclamation and then go on their way silently as they have always done in the past, leaving no trace of their passage.
According to the "Atomic Theory", I am 80% couch.
If you ever want to find out what it's like being the only sober person in a room full of professors telling each other jokes in Latin and heffing and hawing and pulling each others' beards, here's a good place to start.Otherwise not.
این پسر که حالا برای خودش مردی شده، در نوجوانی اسیر تفکرات مفسری به‌ نام: دوسلبی، می‌شود، اندیشمندی که برای هر رخداد طبیعی، نظراتی غیرطبیعی ارائه می‌دهد.
فکر می‌کنید این همه ماجرا که من تازه خلاصه‌ اش را گفتم، در چند صفحه‌ ی کتاب روی می‌دهد؟ باورش سخت است اما این‌ها تنها سی صفحه‌ ی ابتدایی داستان تقریبا دویست و پنجاه صفحه‌ ای جناب فلن اوبراین هستند.
Incompreso.Un ritratto di Flann O’Brien, pseudonimo di Brian O’Nolan, fatto da un fratello (per un francobollo commemorativo).Qualcuno più bravo di me, e più appassionato di me a questo romanzo, riassume così la trama:C'è un ragazzo che rimane orfano e in collegio diventa uno dei massimi esperti dell'opera del filosofo e scienziato de Selby, considerato un genio benché nessuna delle sue teorie sia accettabile (per esempio sostiene che la notte è un'illusione ottica derivante da emissioni di fumo).
It makes a powerful case for minimalism against maximalism.You can enter and re-enter this compact, almost infinitesimal, world of infinite jest with infinite pleasure.To paraphrase the first policeman, "It is nearly an insoluble pancake, a conundrum of inscrutable potentialities, a snorter."For it to remain so when you read it, I’m not going to say much about it apart from outlining the metaphysical speculation that seems to drive it."Is It About a Bicycle?"It most certainly is.
Indeed, life without a soul might define hell.
Hell might be an eternal recurrence of ourselves and our past lives."A Journey is An Hallucination"A different approach to life and death comes from the narrator’s favourite philosopher, de Selby (1).
Absurdity done right.
The Third Policeman is a fantastic work of imaginative fictional wonder that by the end somehow manages to become a bit exasperating in all its fantastic imaginative wonderfulness.
Each chapter by itself is a kind of magical and mind-bending set piece illustrating baffling physical and metaphysical conundrums, paradoxes, absurdities, and improbabilities, but this is perhaps a situation where the pieces are greater than the whole (a standout example is MacCruiskeen’s ever-diminutive reproductions of boxes falling away into the invisibly miniscule, a wonderful metaphor for the metafictive act).
In shape it is circular and by nature it is interminable, repetitive and very nearly unbearable." - O'Brien (omitted from the published novel)Hell is other people's bicycles.After finishing Flann O'Brien's dark masterpiece of absurdity, I wanted to jam a well-chewed copy of Joyce in one pocket, a copy of Sterne in the other, push a DFW in my back left pocket, put some dark strawberry jam in my back right pocket, turn left twice, exit into my tight little garage and immediately make sweet sweet love to the nearest bicycle available.
But let's bounce back to bikes and literature >So, Flann O'Brien's novel seems to exist in a strange purgatory between Sterne's The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman and DFW's The Broom of the System.
Ο Τρίτος Αστυφύλακας είναι ένα πολύ ιδιόμορφο και περίεργο βιβλίο που όμως μετά tο τέλος του μου άφησε ένα χαμόγελο ικανοποίησης και ένα αίσθημα θαυμασμού για τον συγγραφέα.
Η ιστορία λοιπόν του πρωταγωνιστή που δεν γνωρίζει το όνομα του αλλά συνομιλεί με την συνείδηση του (που έχει όνομα), διαβάζει ένα περίεργο επιστήμονα/φιλόσοφο και διαπράττει έναν φόνο, διαθέτει τα πάντα!
Οι τελευταίες σελίδες είναι ουσιαστικά η λύση αυτού του γριφώδους βιβλίου.Ένα αστεράκι θα κόψω επειδή είμαι σίγουρος πως η πλήρης κατανόηση αυτού του βιβλίου προϋποθέτει από την πλευρά του αναγνώστη.
Una novela repleta de hallazgos imaginativos, de los que son buena muestra los planteamientos filosóficos y científicos del extravagante de Selby: la vida como experiencia estática, el mapa de la eternidad o la ciencia hidráulica esotérica.
O tal vez algo ínfimo, como el movimiento de la hierba en un insoportable y sofocante día amarillo, o alguna criatura oculta, camino de sus ocupaciones: muy bien podía ser yo responsable de todo eso, o de una parte.
Podría pertenecer a una orilla solitaria, o ser la agonía del mar cuando rompe desesperado en esa misma orilla.
4.5/5ABANDON HOPE OF (COMPLETELY) AVOIDING SCIENCE, ALL YE WHO ENTER HERE Insanity is doing the same thing over and over again but expecting different results.-Rita Mae Brown The phrase practically screams common sense, does it not? And yet endurance, perseverance, and stubborn tenacity are all valued qualities in the face of a seemingly unobtainable goal. Personally, what immediately comes to mind are the trials and tribulations of scientists in countless laboratories scattered across the globe
For those who have some level of interest, continue on.(view spoiler)[Human existence de Selby has defined as 'a succession of static experiences each infinitely brief'...From this premise he discounts the reality or truth of any progression or serialism in life, denies that time can pass as such in the accepted sense and attributes to hallucinations the commonly experienced sensation of progression as, for instance, in journeying from one place to another or even 'living'....The illusion of progression he attributes to the inability of the human brain - 'as at present developed' - to appreciate the reality of these separate 'rests', preferring to group many millions of them together and calling the result motion...Some of you may be familiar with the concept of integration in mathematics.
Before reading, I had no preconceived notions about it, other than that it was an influence on the TV show LOST, but from its beginning pages, I hypothesized it to be a short, clever novel about murder.
Then it made several left turns and U-turns and roundabouts that I'll let the reader discover for herself.This book feels vastly important, mostly because it's really old.
It's an important book which I don't think has received its just deserts.
I have fallen off it both left and right but that is a different matter.I tried this book a long time ago and I didn't make it to the question of bicycle-mounting.
'Atomic theory' is like DNA explained by a writer who knows what time the bars open but not when they close.
This is universal, I think, even if bicycle-boarding is not.**The first-person protagonist of this novel, in addition to being a first-chapter murderer, has written an analysis of the works of the de Selby, of whom it was said, "the beauty of reading a page of de Selby is that it leads one inescapably to the happy conviction that one is not, of all nincompoops, the greatest." I liked this book best for its wry, self-deprecating humor.
So I feel like I was gyped a bit here.
Here are a few that really interested me: He felt that roads have a distinct direction they travel in.
And you can feel if you are traveling them in the correct direction.
These are not touched very much in the novel, but were unique enough in and of themselves that I felt I would mention them.And then there is the whole sharing atoms thing.This is a point of focus throughout the novel: If you ride a bicycle too often, pcs of the bike get passed into you, and you into it.
Oh, so this is what the Trial would read like if Kafka wrote it on six or seven tabs of acid.
Since I’ve never read anything like it, I don’t quite know how to compare it.
In another fun distortion of science, the policeman gets us all to agree that the image you see in the mirror is an ever-so-slightly younger version of yourself given travel times of light.
The temptation in reviewing this story is to give away the same spoiler that the egghead/bonehead who wrote the introduction did.
This one gets 3.5 for its offbeat entertainment value, but falls short of full marks since any of the life themes that might have been given some heft instead floated off, into the fictive ether.
The only difference between the two novels is that the world here (rural Ireland) is dark and at times creepy unlike the bright and colorful world of Alice.Do you remember the structure of an atom?An atom is composed of a nucleus with the positively charged protons and the electronically neutral neutrons.
Time will come, due to the continuous use of the bike, the man becomes partly bike, partly human.
Likewise, the bike will become partly human.There is a story in the book.
Chances are, I have a new set of maids and it will be harder to look for this book.
La novela contiene varias notas a pie de página que rompen con la trama convirtiéndose por momentos en una novela aparte, en una especie de metaficción; notas donde tanto críticos como seguidores de de Selby dan rienda suelta a sus filias y fobias por el controvertido sabio.En cuanto al tercer policía del título, es todo un misterio del que no se puede mencionar nada, pero cuya importancia es crucial, aunque esté ausente.Insisto de nuevo, cuanto menos se sepa del argumento de este libro, mucho mejor, para poder disfrutar plenamente con su lectura.Flann O’Brien fue un exquisito narrador para el que las reglas a la hora de escribir no existían.
Tra Sterne e Swift, Joyce e Beckett, in questa storia di umorismo e decostruzione ci sono oggetti magici che assistono, macchine prodigiose che creano, passaggi paradossali e case anormali e architetture impossibili alla Escher e personaggi assolutamente irrazionali e irresistibili che si elevano in una ultima risata; alto e basso, interno e esterno, logico e assurdo, scrittore e lettore, creatore e creati, non sono più criteri riconoscibili, è solo il racconto a interpretarne essenza, definizione e materia.
— and the policemen are basically pursuing the theft of bicycles and parts thereof, so it's no hard-boiled-crime.It has a longlong elevator in it that takes you to a place you can only dream about.It has some very tinytiny thingies in it, that nobody can actually manufacture unless you are one of the policemen in it.It has a subplot in it, that is conveniently and aptly put in lengthy footnotes, about the curiousest sciencetis-ish man and his works.It has a man without a name in it.And it has a shebicycle in it.What more do you want?If you'd take Lewis's Alice and Kafka's Castle, press them together under high pressure and temperature for a considerable period of time, then let it cool down and cut the resulting aclaiclstee into slices, maybe, if you're lucky, you'll find one slice that vaguely resembles The Third Policeman; maybe not._____I read this book in translation; in memoriam of Harry Rowohlt who passed on June 15.
As a young man, O'Brien had been much influenced by James Joyce, and his first novel drew many comparisons to Ulysses, enough to irritate the author for the rest of his life.
The Third Policeman takes many of the qualities of Joyce's great book and inverts or reduces them.
Ulysses, a humane and generous novel, invites an infinite number of possibilities and interpretations; The Third Policeman is a narrative closed loop and resists explication.The book is also very, very funny.
It's one of the very best modern novels, and, sadly, because it was written very early in his career, the finest thing Flann O'Brien ever wrote.
The "Third Policeman" is one of the best examples of a genuinely avant-garde modernist work, because it just won't fit into categories, even so many years on.By way of postscript: one thing I especially love about the book is the sense of Irish landscape that it conjures, in between its many fantasies and concoctions.
It is an impoverished landscape implying an impoverished society -- and when I think of those things, O'Brien's perverse and perfervid inventions look even more necessary than his humor, and more desperate and painful.
Descriptions and events and expounded philosophies sort of made a weak and tenuous sense.
Birds were stirring and the great kingly trees were being pleasingly interfered with by the first breezes.""The road...ran away westwards in the mist of the early morning, running cunningly through the little hills and going to some trouble to visit tiny towns which were not, strictly speaking, on its way."Time and space are interchangeable.
he led the way heavily into the middle of the morning." This is not logical, yet it makes sense.Inanimate things don't become animated but they do assume a different essence, all explainable by the Atomic Theory.
Really it's this incredible terror or the infinite and unknowable (which actually has a perfect place within the plot) -- the humor always turns on a disconcerting edge, and there's the creeping suspicion that our worst fears about the uncertain world are (as Aubrey brilliantly point out) actually being bourn out by scientific reality forming in the interwar period of its conception.
Because almost as much as this is about science fiction (or about the subconscious, or nightmares, both of which very much have their place here) this is equally about science itself -- the latest theories, empirical measurement, the experiments of the mad or misguided which may point the way to discovery.
خیلی کتاب خوب و روان خوانیه. من نمیدونستم ولی کتاب رو که شروع کردم بخونم فهمیدم ایده ی سریال لاست از این کتاب گرفته شده. همین شاید باعث شه برم باقی سریال رو که نیمه کاره رها کردم ببینم.فضای خیالی و راز آلود داستانش خیلی کشش دارهمطمئن نیستم از چه لحاظ ولی خوندنش دائما حس خوندن کتاب گهواره گربه رو بهم میداد. شاید به خاطر دیالوگ های کوتاه و بی ربط ولی هوشمندانه و جالب توجهحتما خوندنش توصیه میشه
He has entered a surreal new world, populated by surreal characters - including Philip Mathers (the man he murdered in the first line of the novel); a one-legged man (with whom the one-legged man narrator establishes a sort of solidarity); and three policemen...The first, Sergeant Puck, is preoccupied with bicycles.
, was endorsed by Greene - who was, at that time, a reader at Longman Publishers.)The logic of the novel is best exemplified by an incident recalled by the Sergeant...'I heard of a man once,' he said, 'that had himself let up into the sky in a balloon to make observations, a man of great personal charm but a divil for reading books.
Cool kids know that Flann O'Brien is one of the finest underrated (Irish) writers of the 20th Century and that At Swim-Two-Birds is a bumptious, multifaceted, meta-masterpiece (by which I mean both deeply and indistinguishably metafictional and a masterpeice which likes to subvert its own masterful language at every turn, making it more punk rock than a stately, arch-Modernist string quartet).
One writer put it finely when he opined to the extent that (at least in terms of 20th Century Irish fiction, and let's face it, Ireland has a fine claim on some of the best that was thought and said amid the caterwaul 20th Century) as far as Catholic heirarchies go, Joyce is the father, Beckett is the son, and O'Brien is the holy ghost.
When viewed as one particular type of fiction, this book falls into obscurity and impossibility since it is untamed by nature, embracing the loose absurdity of burgeoning postmodernist playwrights and indeed fellow Irish contemporaries such as Joyce.The novel begins with the detached narrator confessing a murder.
The narrator goes onto discuss his personal fascination with a scientist named De Selby, at which point this mythical figure takes hold of the narrative to a frustrating degree and my own mind started to ache.The narrator discusses houses and roads with a scholar’s attention-to-detail before the topic of bicycles is introduced; seemingly crucial for a basic understanding of the book (which I am inching towards).
I really wanted to like this book.
I didn't like this book.Things I did like:* The writing.
O'Brien was a wordsmith.
This is before there were IEDs, mind you.Things I didn't like:* How horrible the book was.* How long it took me to work my way through the book.* The number of times I wished I was reading a different book.In sum, save yourself the trouble and read Bicycle Sex: The Definitive Anthology instead.
O'Brien was probably an amusing conversationalist after tweleve whiskeys, but this novel is about as amusing as the swine flu.
