https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/776573.Riddley_Walker
If ye lyke readen, if ye lyke a tchalinge, if yure tirt of all them comin of age books with predicable hinerd nerators, if yed as lief not be man pulated by the pubshing peoples as to what ye should be readin nex, then try this here buk. Ye mi not be able to buy it in shop as it was pubshed way back time back but meby your libryd hev it. An if ye do try it, yell relise dat peoples needs storys an if peoples lose all de storys, dey jus up an mek more storys, don dey?
This puppet show is a government-sponsored propaganda machine wherein the main character is Eusa (a degraded and highly modified version of St. Eustace), a stand-in for the perpetrators of Armageddon, in which old knowledge and new superstition are mixed together to create a truly unique experience.
On my naming day when I come 12 I gone front spear and kilt a wyld boar he parbly ben the las wyld pig on the Bundel Downs any how there hadnt ben none for a long time befor him nor I aint looking to see none agen.
Cows mooing sheap baaing cocks crowing and us foraging our las boar in a thin grey girzel on the day I come a man.These are the opening lines of Riddley Walker and we jump right in, to a new world and a new language.But look again - the language is not so new, nor is the speaker.
I am not necessarily adverse to an author expanding his creative vision into an exploration of communicative styles.
Author Russell Hoban has created what very possibly may be a work of genius.
You went full retard, man.
Burgess and Herbert expanded the vocabulary, but allowed the reader a chance to take part in the culture, left breadcrumbs along the way to allow us to keep up.
Hoban worked really hard to create a meticulous cacophony of language that is applauded by many, and probably rightfully so.
I, however, like many readers, was left on the outside looking in and never bought into what was being sold.
Riddley Walker has clear precedents, such as the postmodern invented language of A Clockwork Orange and the post-apocalyptic search for lost knowledge that drives A Canticle for Leibowitz, but Hoban's novel remains a singularly original work.
A pidgin mishmash of broken, phonetically-spelled English and familiar words deconstructed and reconstructed, Riddley's language at first seems like an attention-grabbing gimmick, but it is anything but.
Often I found myself thinking, "I'm really going to get more out of this when I read it a second time." Its mythology and its mysteries are allusive and elusive, showing much but revealing little.
Set in a primitive future society and told in the imagined dialect of the time, involving malapropistic phoneticisms and accidental puns (and clearly an inspiration for one story of Mitchell's Cloud Atlas: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...), so not something you can read quickly - at least, not till you get used to it.
I think that is partly because Burgess is the better, or at least more careful, writer, but also because the whole of this book is written in dialect, whereas in Clockwork Orange, it's conventional English with a generous smattering of slang.This book, and especially its dialect, were an inspiration to David Mitchell, when writing the central story of Cloud Atlas (https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...), Sloosha's Crossin', as he explains in this article: http://www.theguardian.com/books/2005...A great book for earnest and intellectual group discussions, but overall, I think it's trying to be cleverer and deeper than it actually is.Thanks to Jenne, I've discovered this resource: http://www.errorbar.net/rw/.
La historia se ha olvidado, y son las élites religiosas y políticas las que controlan el pasado.Dudo, de 12 años, hereda el cargo de su padre, el nexo del Zercado de Como, una especie de intérprete para el resto de su tribu de los espectáculos de títeres que realizan los Mistros, líderes religiosos y políticos, guiñoles propagandísticos y que alertan sobre los peligros de la ciencia y la tecnología que llevó al Gran Pum. Tras un extraño y algo inexplicable impulso, Dudo huye, en un viaje de iniciación, de búsqueda de la verdad.
Things come into the mind and wait to hook up with other things; there are places that can heighten your responses, and if you let your head go its own way it might, with luck, make interesting connections."in "Riddley Walker" by Russell HobanThe language is what makes this book, working at multiple levels.
For a start, it gives the reader an instant sense of estrangement, telling us from the first line, at a gut level, that we are in a world very different from ours.
even kids you are fucking with love you and pay attention to what moves you.
maybe they pay attention when something gets you so excited and happy that they associate that thing with you being human for a split second.
there is probably a time when their language about living with you is like Riddley's - makeshift, distorted, garbled and truer than precision could ever be.so -my daughter loves this book, and has since she was a child.
Where the number creaper grows on the dead stoans and the groun is sour for 3 days digging the nite stil knows the shape of its self tho we dont.
This 1 wer coming down in a way as took the hart and hoap out of you there wer a kynd of brilyants in the grey it wer too hard it wer too else it made you feal like all the tracks in the worl wer out paths nor not a 1 to bring you back.
Even if they dont know it ther selfs the rat can smel if theyre ready.” ********" Looking at the moon all col and wite and oansome.
With Riddley Walker he created a tool capable of communicating with people on a fundamental level and which forces them to think and to feel like none other.
He tried to create something wholly unique, entirely expressive, and completely profound, all the while knowing that the language would immediately turn a lot of readers away (a friend of mine refused to read beyond the first page).
You stil dont know where you begun." I don't consider it a stretch to claim that Riddley Walker is perhaps the greatest novel ever written, or that it will remain so for many many years.
There’s a point in Riddley Walker where Riddley writes, “You try to word the big things and they tern ther backs on you,” which is a bit how I feel trying to write about this book.
Abel Goodparley and Erny Orfing, respectively the Pry Mincer and Wes Mincer of Inland, seek to recreate the “1 Big 1” (the atom bomb) and the “1 Littl 1” (gunpowder) so they can rebuild the world from “time back way back.”Riddley Walker is also kin to Edgar Pangborn’s Davy and Still I Persist in Wondering.
He learns he is not only an intuitive, but a “happener,” one who makes things happen, because that too is human nature, to want to have an effect on the world and cause it to move forward.
I think the challenge of having to struggle with the language and seeing that world through a foggy lens (it’ a riddle!) mirrors the difficulty Riddley and his people have trying to understand the world that is gone, when there is literally almost nothing left but “bernt” dead towns and the ruins of the Power Ring at “Cambry,” no records or history, except the handed-down stories, songs and plays that attempt to understand the past, present and possibly the future.
God, this book is fantastic.Ever wonder what it must have been like to live in a world where all that you have is all that's around you, where the earth could hold any kind of horror at all and you'd believe it because all you know is what you see and what you whisper about at night around the fire?
This book is, in a large part, about the philosophy of what it means to be human-- what the "idear of us" really is.
The idea that simple people in touch with the world can know things our society can't is borne out in full by what Riddley has to say.
We use scores of words to describe our reality that people from the 1800s would find incomprehensible.That said, an author can’t really change the language all that much, or the work becomes as confusing as the original Beowulf is to modern readers.
But the written form, with its strange spellings, bastardized words, and odd punctuation all work together to slow the reader down to the speed of the people who remain and make it seem more different from 21st century English that it actually is.It might be an interesting experiment to read this and Burgess’ Clockwork Orange together, despite the fact that Burgess uses just a smattering of slang in comparison with Hoban’s entire novel in dialect.
This has been recalled to the library so I'll have to finish it another time. It is very interesting but difficult to read because it is written in a made-up dialect of debased future English spoken by survivors of a nuclear disaster. Quite a change from the previous works I had read by this author -- my childhood favorites, picture books about a little badger named Frances and her family.
It is clear that this has a double meaning of being raped, or at least having sex—a bit the way Greeks and Romans did in ancient times—but Hoban gives multiple meanings to the word “man” and “boy.” “Goodparley said, ‘Everything wants to man dont it.
(36)” This stanza is itself a metaphor for Riddley’s story, of change and knowing yourself, and of history repeating itself with big changes and doomed to do so until it figures it out, which is the bigger plot of the story and finally note that the capitalization of Chaynjis gives it emphasis and different layers of meaning.
A beautiful and haunting book. Thousands of years after a nuclear disaster of some kind has has destroyed civilization, we see them trying to make sense of our world, through legends that have been passed down and through the material remains of our world (broken machines, roads, etc.). Since we are so obscure to them, they are equally obscure to us, and a lot of what happens and what their world is like is incomprehensible. Creating this mutual incomprehension is a tour de force on Hoban's part, chiefly effected by the language the book is written in.
It is really HARD to read, for one thing -- it's set in post-apocalyptic "Inland" (England) and is told in a language invented by Hoban.
Anyway, all kinds of mystical things happen to young Riddley as he goes on a quest to find (I forget what -- the owner of a severed hand found in a Punch puppet?
These are a couple weird things at play), and he (and the reader) tries to solve the mystery of the long-past end of the world.
Dogs have some mystical significance (of which I approve) and technology from the former world is treated as religious relics.
He also added some complexity to the language in order to slow the reader down to Riddley's comprehension level, which I think is a nice touch.
I loved being able to see new meanings in the words, and knowing that even if it wasn't what Hoban had in mind, he would have approved.References - The 20th Anniversary Edition has some REALLY useful extra content at the back, including a sample glossary, which I would recommend reading before reading the story.
There are also a couple of good references online for looking up words, mythology and concepts from Riddley Walker.
If you love language, word play, etymology, puzzles, etc., you'll live in this book while you're reading it, and maybe even while you're not.The language of Riddley Walker is an invented one, but it rings true.
In an illiterate, dirty, mostly agrarian post-apocalyptic society, written language (for the few who can even write) represents words the way they sound.
Riddley Walker is worth reading slowly, so you can unravel each sentence's meaning, which is often more complex than mere word evolution.
As post-apocalyptic fiction goes, this is easily a top ten pick.
Wins top slot on my list of books that would be better as an audiobook.
Alas, no such beast.
The story gets lost in Hoban's choice of phonetic writing--if only it were just that.
He chooses to misspell things even when his choice wouldn't be the logical outcome of a less literate age.It violates the notion of: just give us the spirit of the thing.
He made it difficult on purpose.
That makes the book self-indulgent and gimmicky.
The content is grim and depressing, but also interesting.
An emotional experience, I rooted for Riddley all the way.
Not a satisfying ending for me.
Undeniably bold and ambitious and strange and intellectually exciting, Riddley Walker has a lot of good qualities.
Unfortunately, all the good stuff rather got balanced out by some MASSIVE flaws: lack of action, a tendency to waffle on in page after page of barely-comprehensible free-associating stream of thought, lack of anything particularly earthshaking the way of a message that might justify all the verbiage, and a near-total lack of agency that makes it hard to really care - some shit happens, but we don't get the sense of any protagonist really DOING anything.If you like this sort of thing, you'll love it.
A very odd book, in almost every way.
We have a world destroyed by nuclear war; a post-apocalyptic populace slowly moving from a hunter-gatherer society to a farming one; and power-hungry men trying to recapture the glories of old.
But the powerful are trying to regain the knowledge of atomic energy without going through coal and steam first (they don't appear to be even smelting their own iron, just reclaiming old stuff from dumps).
It's doomed to fail, and at the end of the book nothing has changed.
Whoa.
This is the kind of book where I wished I had a literature class to discuss it with.
Post-Apocalyptic Fiction 251, anyone?
I would so take that class.It's so very cleverly written, with all its own nursery rhymes and legends working to piece together the story of an apocalypse...but I wished I'd been more invested in the characters.
I guess I wanted some kind of reward for all the heavy lifting.
It's not a friendly book, let's put it that way.But I'm glad I read it.
P.S. I wish I had found this site  while I was reading the book!
Rich essay material This is a book which I get is smart, clever, filled with interesting insights, suppositions and - frankly - prophesies. (All the stuff with Eusa and putting all his cleverness in a box, and the leet - well before mass computerisation, the internet, or anyone calling themselves the l33t... spooky as hell.)However, it just didn't really grab me as a piece of story telling. It was a well-constructed world and full of many interesting themes which I enjoyed unpicking and would'v
Rich essay material
This is a book which I get is smart, clever, filled with interesting insights, suppositions and - frankly - prophesies.
(All the stuff with Eusa and putting all his cleverness in a box, and the leet - well before mass computerisation, the internet, or anyone calling themselves the l33t...
It was a well-constructed world and full of many interesting themes which I enjoyed unpicking and would've made rich study for an essay or a book group.
I just didn't much care about our boy or his individual journey.Frankly - brilliant little details aside - I found it a bit of a trudge to finish this one.
This book is unlike anything I have read before or since - a post-apocalyptic vision of a primitive culture with half lost folk memories of earlier civilisation, written in a consistent imaginary language strongly rooted in modern English but evolved and degraded. The plot follows the eponymous Walker on a trek around Kent, exploring the nature of myth and religion. Unforgettable.
I know that my own self-image is that of someone with catholic taste in reading, not so easily pinned down.
I would recommend both books unreservedly, "The Sparrow" in particular.The last book of the three was Russell Hoban's "Riddley Walker", a dystopic vision set in a future, post-apocalyptic England.
Which that place its so big and eckowing it wer realy some thing to hear them telling of the many cools of Addom and the party cools of stoan and all the diffrent colourt seeds and that.
Riddley's assigned role in life was to be a connexion man, watching the shows putt on by the travelling Eusa men and making the connexions.
Throughout the book, he roams through Inland, making connexions wherever he finds something blipful.
And Goodparley's connexion of Riddley's life so far with the Fools Circel 9wys rhyme, just confirms to him that there are connexions in everything, from the discovery of the old, blackened Punch puppet which starts him on his wanderings and his meetings with Grantser and Lissener to his visions of talking dogs walking on their hind-legs.
Lorna said to me, 'You know Riddley theres some thing in us it dont have no name.'I said, 'What thing is that?'She said, 'Its some kind of thing it aint us but yet its in us.
Wel it wernt you put that spear in your han it wer that other thing whats looking out thru your eye hoals.
You look at lykens on a stoan its all them tiny manyings of it and may be each part of it myt think its sepert only we can see its all 1 thing.
Some times we dont fit.
Some times it cant fynd the arm hoals and it tears us a part.'That about sums it up, I think.
