https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/116254.Mind_of_My_Mind
This is another excellent Butler book but I wish I had read it before Wild Seed because, to my mind, reading in publication order is always better§, I would have read it as a prequel to Mind of My Mind and appreciate both books more (even though I already appreciate both very much).Mind of My Mind begins with body hopping super-mutant Doro* visiting Anyanwu—who now calls herself Emma—the protagonist of the previous volume.
Doro has a life mission to build a race of powerful telepaths by breeding and crossbreeding people with psi abilities like cattle.
It turns out that post-transition Mary has the ability to permanently link herself to other telepaths and form an almost hive mind-like psionic group called “the pattern” of seemingly unlimited size.
Butler's young women aren't so heavily burdened by their capabilities and responsibilities - at least, this kind of comic-book hero drama is seriously downplayed.
The main drama seems to be how these women do their work in the world.
I love that these books are about the work they've been charged to do - as opposed to the messianic agonizing that usually takes up these kind of stories.
I was also wary of how this book made the female hero the instinctively nurturing, loving, proactive, motherly figure who draws her strength from developing others.
It’s tough to decide whether readers should approach this series in the order it was written, in order to see Butler’s development as a writer, or by internal chronology, to follow the PATTERNIST story at the expense of uneven writing style/quality.Mind of My Mind takes place about a century after the events of Wild Seed.
However, when they do link their minds, it is Doro who questions whether this outcome is truly the goal of his psychic breeding program over millennia, or whether Mary and the others in her Pattern represent a greater threat to him than anyone before.All the books in the PATTERNIST series are short and told in a concise, somewhat clinical tone that is at odds with the themes of emotional bonds, struggles for control, manipulation, and internal conflict.
I think I became too invested in the characters of Anyanwu (Emma) and Doro in Wild Seed to fully appreciate this book.
I stuck with the book just to see what happens to Emma and Doro, and while I'm slightly curious to see the direction the rest of the series takes, I suspect I might not ever be too eager to read through them all.Did Butler intend for this reaction?
She wrote the complicated relationship between Anyanwu and Doro so well in Wild Seed, but nearly all the Patternist characters--including Mary--felt so flat.
Nothing about their telepathy intrigued me, but I awed at Emma's and Doro's ability.
Wild Seed, the first book in the Patternist series, was a phenomenal book that made me infatuated with Octavia Butler’s ability to tell a story.
Soon a new society of telepaths is being created, and no one, even Doro, is sure what to make of it.
One of the most interesting aspects of Doro’s character from Wild Seed is the way everyone loves him.
The ending of this book changes the series in a big way, so it will be interesting to see how it plays out in the next installment.
Speculative fiction concerning an alien's breeding program for telepathy in humans. Some of the same characters as Wild Seed (100 years later) but mostly new ones. I love Ms. Butler's bold ideas about genetics and heredity.
The only moral imperative for them is (now that the Pattern allows them more control over themselves) to treat the "mutes" kindly when using them.Anyanwu (the other immortal protagonist of Wild Seed, whose psi abilities are for healing and have nothing to do with the mind) is still around in Mind of My Mind, and she thinks that what Doro and the Patternists are doing is terrible, but she has absolutely no power to stop them.
This book was interesting (and makes more sense now that I know that the internal chronological order that I am reading these in, are not the published order), because Doro is not the most powerful thing in the universe anymore.
But anyone can see that she has the Potential to become a thousand times more powerful than Doro ever was, and therefore a thousand times more dangerous.Plus, I kept remembering the scene in Wild Seed where Isaac tells Anywanyu that she could help Doro regain his humanity.
And I can't help thinking that in the long run Mary will be much more harmful to humanity.
My favorite author ever.
She died just a couple years ago.
I'm heartbroken because i wanted to meet her, shake her hand, tell her how much I identify with her work, how much she infuses me with a desire to write.
i want to recollect all of her work and read it sequencially, I keep loaning it out.
she writes about xenophobia and alternative morals amoung other things, the bleak future, warnign us to change it, inherit goodness and evil of humanity, and the power of single people to unite small groups to create great change, evolution, hope.
Later, Emma angrily raises the issue of non-telepaths being referred to as "mutes," which she compares to "niggers." Beyond her brief tirade, this is not addressed again beyond the obvious comparison of mutes being used as slaves to the Patternists (though here, the mutes are all very content and mistreatment by Patternists is punished).
Emma's tirade is particularly hypocritical since she is as much a slave to Doro as all the rest of Doro's children whom he keeps in line with violence and threats of death.Overall, this was a very disturbing theme.
Doro might have been considered an evil worthy of destruction, but how much of Mary could truly be considered "good?"
Though the writer is black, the issue here is translated into race in another sense.
This tale, written in 1977, covers the emergence of a race of telepaths led by a teenage girl, Mary, bred for her powers to bind other telepaths to her in a cult-like "Patternist" society.
The groups secret takeover of LA suburbs involves harnessing ordinary humanity (the "mutes", or sometimes "pets" or "slaves"), a process sometimes as creepy as "Invasion of the Body Snatchers".
Certainly a walk on the wild side, which is very well done.
This book is preceded by "Patternmaster" and succeeded by "Wild Seed" and "Clay's Ark", which I will definitely keep an eye out for.
I read this whole book on the same day I saw the total eclipse, and the two experiences echoed each other in a way, a glimpse into a completely unexpected way of seeing things...with a dragging sense of dread at the end of the world.
An enjoyable sequel to "Wild Seed". The story is thought-provoking with an unexpected end, so typical of the writing of Octavia E. Butler.
5 down, 9 to go in my goal of reading every book Octavia Butler's written. It would be interesting to compare Mary and Olamina's approaches to leadership.
Reseña completa en Fábulas estelares.Aunque tenía mis (muchas) dudas al principio, desde la mitad hacia delante ha sido una sorpresa detrás de otra. Y el final... ¡¡El final!!Qué ganas tengo de adentrarme en la siguiente novela, ya en el espacio, y la última en publicarse de esta saga.[Los libros de esta saga de cuatro se pueden leer de forma independiente, pero están estrechamente ligados entre sí, aunque cada uno cierra su historia y se sitúa en un tiempo distinto al resto. Recomiendo empezar por Wild Seed, eso sí].
reviews.metaphorosis.com 3 stars The purpose-bred descendant of an immortal sociopath develops an unusual ability that brings her people together.  I expected this book to continue the story of the first, but Butler clearly had in mind a much grander scheme for the series. The immortal Doro plays an important part, but his sometime companion Anyanwu is left almost entirely in the background. Instead, the story is told mainly from the point of view of Mary, one of their many descendants. As an ex
I expected this book to continue the story of the first, but Butler clearly had in mind a much grander scheme for the series.
Doro's descendants control hundreds or thousands of 'mutes' (non-telepaths), and the emergence of the Pattern exacerbates the situation.
I'd like to give Butler credit for this subtlety - for forcing the reader to constantly be on their guard for the choice between empathizing with likable characters (even sociopathic Doro is likable) and keeping in mind that they're doing awful things.
I was interested in the theme of this book, but disappointed with Butler's near-abandonment of Anyanwu's viewpoint.
As I mentioned in Wild Seed, I am glad I read that novel first - the background it provides for Doro, and Emma, is devastatingly important.
He is the puppetmaster.This book takes place over a much shorter timeframe than Wild Seed - just a few decades.
Mary becomes the focus of the story as she seems to be the fulfilment of Doro's plans, and it basically follows her development and discovery of her powers.
This book isn't always pleasant to read, but it is always powerful and it's always well written and I will definitely be reading it again.
Octavia Butler's Patternmaster series was first on the list, so this is the book I've had on my TBR the longest.
I re-read the first book in the series, Wild Seed, earlier this year and wasn't crazy about it upon re-read, but had to keep going to finish all of the works of my favorite author.
The book deals with psychic powers in a new way, and is definitely a page turner.
I really got into the story and loved the way Butler went with the second book in this series.
It's not totally necessary to read the first book, Wild Seed, first, but that does contribute quite a bit to the story that's told here.
Mind of My Mind was also written first, and it shows.
For instance, the character of Emma, so fully realized in Wild Seed, just feels...off somehow here.
I don't know that Butler had her complete in her head yet--not surprising since she probably wasn't.
Seeing her so complete in Patternist #1 and then so different in #2 felt strange.Now that I've finished the entire series, I think I might read it not in chronological order but in the order Butler wrote it.
And I'm not sure I'd read Clay's Ark, even though it was written last, I realize the world is bleak sometimes, but yowie.
Re-read for the second time. I was crazy about this the first time I read it, and saw it as the strongest book in the Patternist series. Reading it again, I think I actually like it about as much as I liked Wild Seed. Maybe because I already knew how the book ends, and how the pattern works, it wasn't as fun reading it again. I would skip reading Clay's Ark and Survivor a second time as I didn't enjoy those that much, but I will probably read Patternmaster again.
Great scifi storytelling. Octavia Butler masters the genre. These books could easily be movies. I look forward to the rest of the series and I wonder why it took me so long to hear about her and her books. I read more fantasy than scifi by far but Butler's work joins both genres seamlessly. Recommended!
Picked this up at an estate sale the other day. I'd long ago read my original copy to tatters, so it was fun to re-read after many, many years. It's got a lot of earmarks of other late-70s SF, and it feels a little clunky when one compares it to Butler's later stuff- but it's still a ripping good read.
Octavia Butler keep surprising me with her stories. Mind of my mind is part two of the patternist series and so far I'm not bored and I want more more more. Mary was the protagonist with power, strength, and compassion that I loved...well, almost more than Anyanwu. I can't wait to get to the next story.
3.5 stars I liked Wild Seed better. But I did like the complexity of the moral ambiguity here - Mary is fighting Doro, but she’s essentially the same as him. The Patternists turn people into slaves - how can I cheer for her???
But one man stands in Mary’s way and the prospect of her empire – her father, her lover, her rival – Doro.'Blurb to the Gollancz 1991 paperback edition.Here, Butler tells the tale of how the Pattern, first explored in ‘Patternmaster’ was created, and introduces the characters Doro and Emma whose tales are told in the third ‘prequel’, ‘Wild Seed’.
Doro, who holds the power of Life and Death over his people, insists that she marry a white male telepath, Karl, believing that he may be able to help her through her transition.
The transition is successful, but perhaps too successful, as during the process Mary’s mind latches on to Karl and five other full telepaths and holds them in a mental Pattern, subservient to herself.
Mind of My Mind takes the story of Doro and Anyanwu and fast fowards it 150 years.
When Mary transitions, Doro finds that her power is new, different-and potentially dangerous to him.
Soon enough, Doro realizes his mistake in not killing her when her new power first asserted itself.As I was reading I was alternately drawn to the mission that Mary took on, and terrified of what it would mean if it was real.
This reminds me of the relationship between the Ina and their symbionts in Fledgling, the first of Butler's books I discovered.Mary and her "First Family" of telepaths (those she drew to her first), are at times sympathetic characters, and at times ruthless killers.
Not as epic in scope as the first, but certainly awesome. Her power dynamics are probably the best part of this series. The books will only get weirder from here. I hear there's like aliens and stuff next book. I should probably stop writing this review and check it out.I'm still here.Wait.I'm trapped.can'tstoptyping...bananavolcanooh godnoWait, there's the post button.
Mind of My Mind picks up the Patternist series about 100 years after the events of Wild Seed.
Butler covers the events of this book very quickly, with several years being skipped over in between some sections.
Also like Wild Seed, characters undergo trauma and shocking events, but most of these are reported with a sense of detachment and inevitability.
Where Wild Seed invited questions about the nature of race and gender, and the ethics of eugenicist breeding programs, Mind of My Mind looks more at questions of power - specifically using an allegory of telepaths vs.
Ugh. Why the HELL did Emma off herself because of stupid Doro?
He's like the sort of bossy alpha male types I can't abide.
He wasn't even prepared and it was satisfying.
Mary is a fantastic character.
The only real flaw besides Emma is having something already be showed to the audience, and then the first person narrator comes in and describes the thing we already saw and read about.
That gets annoying.This book is full of diversity.
There's just no excuse to not have characters of different backgrounds and races.
They hated each other, but still, it wasn't monochrome or mono-cultural.
Butler's work is amazing here. Some of the same themes as Dune, generational breeding programs, social and kinship power dynamics, play out with a humanity that leaves neither protagonist nor antagonist. Instead the conflict bleeds ambiguity and sympathy. The rest of the series is going into my queue
