https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/404516.Thomas_the_Obscure
He approaches death and spits in its eye when he feels his own existence quite distinctly from his other bodily sensations or his thoughts.Later that night Thomas has another out of body experience, seeing and feeling himself simultaneously: “what he looked at eventually placed him in contact with a nocturnal mass which he vaguely perceived to be himself and in which he was bathed...
It implies the cessation of new interpretations, of new possibilities, of learning about oneself as well as the world, of life in a sense more profound that the stopping of physical processes.**For Blanchot existence is a receptacle for the sort of content by which Heidegger defines Dasein.
Αυτό το είδος ποιητικής πεζογραφημένης ελεγείας θανάτου έχει μια σταθερή αξία, είναι μία μνήμη που αξίζει να ξεχνάμε.
Δυο όντα ο Θωμάς και η Άννα τυλίγουν και ξετυλίγουν απουσίες και αδύνατα γεγονότα που δεν συμβαίνουν ή αν συμβούν είναι μάλλον μυθοπλασία.
Είναι δυο υπάρξεις που δεν μιλάνε, δεν ακούν, δεν υπάρχουν μα υπάρχουν μέσα απο τη ζωή του θανάτου τους και εκατομμύρια τέτοια πειράματα σκέψεων στα οποία το πειραματόζωο ( εγώ δηλαδή) έπαθε όλες τις παρενέργειες που δεν αναφερόνται αλλά εννοούνται.
Μόλις άρχιζα να πιστεύω πως βγάζω νόημα με έπνιγαν τα κύματα της φωνής που δεν ακούγεται και συντρίβεται στην ακτή της πιο ανθρώπινης πράξης θανάτου.
(the words, only and slim, are to be excused.) Yet if I didn’t read, Thomas the Obscure, I would not have lodged within me a perspective on the importance of an authentic life, an authentic death.
But it is different than the core messages I receive from linear novels no matter how profound.
Maybe not the brightest thing I’ve done.If someone better trained and more knowledgeable were to read this book they may very well be able to understand and be able to explicate the unique style, how and why it works, the uses of density and tedium for specific purposes.
And at the same time it was furiously destroying the face it kissed.In the sea Thomas lived the freedom of the abyss' crashing silences.
It is when he's on the shore and a swimmer is escaping it's edges that he feels closest.
Beautiful face eight spider legs all at once walking in the other people world.
I don't feel for the Anne who cannot beat her fists on the doors of Thomas world and understand it.
Anne world is the living not a host he can't feel free of.
Jesam, i slava Bogu.Toliko sam se razočarala, na osnovu Blanšoovih eseja očekivala sam zaista nešto drugačije (ali zašto?
A ovo je pretenciozno i preciozno i pre svega sterilno do bola i sve vreme se vrti isti štos sa paradoksalnim rečenicama ("događaj je bio toliko ozbiljan da ga niko od prisutnih nije primetio") i, takođe sve vreme, dolazilo mi je da poglavljima stavljam podnaslove u stilu "Toma pliva i proživljava krizu identiteta, pet strana" "Toma razmišlja da li je u stanju da ustane sa zemlje i šta će mu se onda ružno desiti, dve strane", "Toma se valja po podu hotelske sobe u egzistencijalnoj krizi, sedam strana".
Da, znam da je ovo mnogo cenjeno u krugovima vrhunskih intelektualaca i intelektualnih snobova, ali mante me.
- (meine Interpretation)- der vollkommene Rückzug in die Nicht-Existenz, der inneren Leere, das Überwinden von Gefühlen und Begierden, das in Wahrheit die eigentliche Existenz darstellt.Diese Geschichte bietet keinen Erzähler, keine greifbare Handlung, und dennoch wird im Verlauf eine gewisse Sogwirkung spürbar.
Bestimmende Themen sind das Selbst und das Andere, Leben und Tod, Wahrnehmung, Bewusstein, Anfang und Ende, Schöpfung und WeltuntergangNun zur Geschichte:Thomas existiert und doch auch wieder nicht.
In diesem Zustand begegnet er Anne, die von seiner Konsequenz, sich dem Leben weitgehendst zu entziehen, angezogen wird.
Sie verliert sich so sehr in ihrem Rückzug, dass es ihr nicht mehr möglich ist, umzukehren.
Ακίνητη επάνω στον μεσότοιχο, το σώμα αναμεμειγμένο με το καθαρό κενό, οι μηροί και η κοιλιά ενωμένα με ένα άφυλο και ανόργανο μηδέν, τα χέρια σφίγγοντας σπασμωδικά μία απουσία χεριών, το πρόσωπο πίνοντας εκείνο που δεν ήταν ούτε ανάσα ούτε στόμα, η Άννα είχε μεταμορφωθεί σε ένα άλλο σώμα που η ζωή του, πενία, ένδεια υπέρτατες, την είχε κάνει να γίνει σιγά σιγά η ολότητα εκείνου που δεν μπορούσε να γίνει».
Τον Μπατάιγ, στενό φίλο του Μπλανσό παρεμπιπτόντως, τον είχα χαρακτηρίσει πρόσφατα ως το βιάγκρα της λογοτεχνίας.
It was a story emptied of events, emptied to the point that every memory and all perspective were eliminated, and nevertheless drawing from this absence its inflexible direction which seemed to carry everything away in the irresistible movement toward an imminent catastrophe. What was going to happen? She did not know, but devoting her entire life to waiting, her impatience melted into the hope of participating in a general cataclysm in which, at the same time as the being themselves, the dista
Though he originally conceived of it as a novel, Blanchot whittled that first version of Thomas the Obscure down by three-quarters to its final form as a récit.
For example, his Wikipedia entry laughingly reduces Thomas the Obscure to being 'about the experience of reading and loss.' Words fittingly fail me.
In fact, the translator of this volume, Robert Lamberton, includes an excellent short afterword addressing the nature of translation and specifically the difficulty of translating Blanchot.As a first 'novel' this defies all stereotypes attached to such works, except perhaps the one that they hold the seeds of all future work by a given writer.

Eigentlich sollte man dieses Buch weder bewerten noch besprechen, schon aus Wertschätzung gegenüber Maurice Blanchot, dem Meister des Paradoxons, der in einem seiner Essays anmerkt: «Der Schriftsteller befindet sich in der zunehmend komischen Situation, nichts zu sagen zu haben, es auf keine Weise schreiben zu können und doch durch eine äußerste Notwendigkeit gezwungen zu sein, es unentwegt niederzuschreiben.» Wie das Zitat ahnen lässt, handelt es sich hier nicht um flotte Unterhaltung. Schon di
In Kapitel XI spricht Thomas einen in direkter Rede geschriebenen, endlos anmutenden Monolog über den Tod. In diesem wahrscheinlich bedeutsamsten Abschnitt erlebt er seine Trauer und entdeckt seine eigene Existenz im Tod seiner Freundin, den er selber stirbt und so zum einzigen möglichen Toten wird, «der einzige Tote, der nicht den Eindruck erweckt, durch Zufall zu sterben.» Nach zahlreichen Seiten bleischweren Erörterns des ganzen Desasters endet er mit einer Huldigung der Nacht:
Ich würde die Erfahrung der Leere lieber in einem Gefühl der heiteren Gelassenheit erleben.Wenn es einem Autor gelingt, die Zerrissenheit seiner Hauptfigur im Körper des Lesers leibhaftig zu implantieren, dann heisst das ★★★★★, auch wenn es schmerzt.Wie ein Strauch voll mit schwarzen Tollkirschen ist dieses Buch anziehend und zugleich giftig.

Temný Tomáš si jde zaplavat, pak na večeři mrkne na nějakou broskvičku, ta se do něj hned zamiluje, ale zamiluje se tak moc, že o tom musí osmdesát stran přemýšlet, až ji z toho nakonec rupne v palici a umře.
Styl, který autor zvolil mi velmi silně připomínal moji starou, když má v sobě dvanáct litrů vína - moc tomu nerozumím, každá věta si odporuje a když mi něco začne dávat smysl, zjistím, že to neříkala ona, ale zrovna jel okolo trakař, kterej zněl podobně.Přesto všechno musím tento těžký elaborát hodnotit čtyřmi hvězdičkami, protože sem tam přišel se zajímavou myšlenkou a navíc mi trochu nahlodal životní moudra, která jsem převzal od Šopenhauera a měl je za platné.
the void, nihilism, existentialism at its limits...this book containing so completely the perfect split of the abject grayness of death and pointlessness and the limitless freedom of standing on the brink of the universe and free falling in an ecstasy so rich.
some parts so deeply humorous and bizarre and right on the nose, especially describing the utter lethargy in the legs and body and heart.
fave bit is when he's reading his book (ch.4) and blanchot is describing thomas's interaction with the words, and then becomes subtlely (word?) obvious that he's describing what you're doing while you're reading the text.
Atheistic mysticism can be interesting; when added to existential void-gazing and cod metaphysics, it's much less so. This book gets good once we leave Thomas's navel behind and spend some time with Anne, and then see how Thomas has changed (or failed to change) with Anne's death. But rather too much of this is faux-intellectual bloviating romantic silliness. I assume Blanchot's other work is less so, and look forward to reading it.
rich with impossiblity and swamped with contradictions, intentions and a purpose, which is the case for my appreciation of this book. an all emcompassing void penetrated and pulled back into reality to die with the pen that had written it, finding that death though the same portal as literature.it deserves more than one reading, and eventually i will give it that reward, but for now im in recovery mode.
>Rather than withdraw from a text whose defenses were so strong, he pitted all his strength in the will to seize it, obstinately refusing to withdraw his glance and still thinking himself a profound reader, even when the words were already taking hold of him and beginning to read him… he entered with his living body into the anonymous shapes of words, giving his substance to them, establishing their relationships, offering his being to the word ‘be’.This is an incredible dense book.
I'm not sure exactly what to think of this work, but I'm interested in reading more.

Bad writing straining after the ineffable. As with many other existentialists, female consciousness is portrayed as merely a satelite of the male. Thomas is never evoked in any interesting way, we just get clumsy overstatement and blurriness as a substitute for the profound, and the narrative is frequently ludicrous. This is nothing like Beckett or any other reference point a "postmodernist" might lazily assimilate it with. Read Nathalie Sarraute instead for a genuinely acute examination of identity and language.
The whole concept of this piece was absurd. It is a fictional telling of Blanchot's ideas on philosophy. It explores what being is and is not. The writing was self-indulgent. The book read like it was written by an emotionally overwrought teenager fascinated with death. He took forever to basically say what is contained in a Chinese proverb: He who thinks he knows does not know. He who thinks he does not know, knows. I would never recommend this book to anyone unless I hated their guts.
Holy moly... this book is just a horrible abyss of sadness and emptiness. The unutterable, the unspeakable...the unreadable! Just kidding. It's beautifully written. It's just... very desolate. A good excerpt from it that will give you an idea of what the rest of the book is like:"He surrounded her, like an abyss."
Finished it once, then immediately began again. It leaves a scar.
I have a new love and his name is Maurice.
döncem ben sana sonra. asap. unuttum çünkü.
The present version adds nothing to the pages entitled Thomas the Obscure in 1932, delivered to the publisher in May of 1940 and published in 1941, but as it subtracts a good deal from them, it may be said to be another, and even an entirely new version, but identical at the same time, if one is right in making no distinction between the figure and that which is, or believes itself to be, its centre, whenever the complete figure itself expresses no more than the search for an imagined centre." (from the Preface)Upon re-reading this preface, which is credited to neither the author nor the translator, I couldn't help but recognize elements of the text - the inversion of universal and subjective objects ("There is, for every work, an ifinity of possible variants."), the contradictions ("another, and even an entirely new version, but identical at the same time..."), the personification of abstracts ("which is, or believes itself to be, its centre...").
Une image qui contient tout et rien à la fois.
Thomas l’obscur, c’est un négatif de tout et de rien.
Blanchot semble aspirer leur essence pour créer un monde, un espace, un temps, quelque chose entre les lignes, entre les pages, oui, comme si la vie ou la mort se déroulaient dans le blanc des pages, l’existence sont les mots, mais ce qui importe n’est pas ce qui est noirci, mais ce qui est blanc, c’est là où réside la véritable obscurité, dans le blanc des pages, dans celui de l’existence."Par ce vide, c’était donc le regard et l’objet du regard qui se mêlaient.
This recit is truly an event, an experience, to be returned to and re-experienced ever and again.
And yet this return is impossible as it always stays with you.
Yet each time it turns you a little bit more, you can feel yourself, something within you and without you, turning.
Beautiful, dark, real.
Next time around, when it returns (for the work returns to you, not you to it) it will give you so much more, based on what it has previously taken.
The night is only as long and dark as you are.
Eminently challenging.There is so much to say about this novel but no words to say it with.Like staring at the sun it quickly blinds you, only revealing vague shapes in the afterimage.I felt like I was only learning how to read it toward the end, though this may have been an illusion.Regardless, taken in chunk, read almost as linked aphorisms, it unleashes an immense amount.
I has been suggested to me that this is not a novel one reads, but a work the reads the reader.I look forward to reading this again in the future.
Perhaps it will reveal more of itself, likely it will only obtain a deeper place of enigma.
The dialectic between being/non-being, consciousness/unconsciousness, death and life is supremely observed in a dense, philosophical "novella" - though really I would consider this a piece of philosophy with a couple of characters. Not easy reading but very rewarding. The writing is amazing, it feels like Blanchot wrote it in a centerless void.
Never have I absorbed something with such rapidity. I ate this book like a great meal after indescribable hunger. What I was missing may have been this all along its foolish, obscure, and pointless it reminded me of being a teenager all over again. An atheist mysticism more fulfilling than Bataille's. P.S. There is a PDF online, thats where I read it.
thomas the obscure is about an obscure boy named thomas who goes on dark adventures and his girlfriend anne goes on dark adventures too. i loved the first 5 chapters of this book, then it gets maybe a little too abstract and philosophically dense for me. but i still enjoyed the writing throughout. its an overall nocturnal, dark feeling book
