https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/75703.English_August
Indecision will be your epitaph.  As the statement rung in my ear for more minutes than I cared to count, I stared at the mouth that just uttered it. No, it was not Agastya, the hero of this story but his best friend, Dhrubo, a brain-wracked, stoned, cajoled-to-distinguished young man who spent his time between perusing applications and criticising its submitters in an MNC bank in the megalopolitan city of Delhi. What light was he showing to Agastya, the young conqueror of the Indian Administra
No, it was not Agastya, the hero of this story but his best friend, Dhrubo, a brain-wracked, stoned, cajoled-to-distinguished young man who spent his time between perusing applications and criticising its submitters in an MNC bank in the megalopolitan city of Delhi.
When he lands at Madna, a quintessential small town in the hinterland of rural boundaries, he takes the first bullet on his limbs when he stumbles upon things during his ride from the station to the guest house, witnessed hitherto only in documentary movies: broken roads, parched lands, dilapidated buildings, stripped walls and minimal civic sense.
Chatterjee draws heavily from his own experiences in the Indian administrative service to paint a picture of life in rural India, working of Government offices and bureaucracy in India of 1983.
But I guess this is a reflection of the situation at hand - just the way things don't seem to progress in government offices responsible for development and nothing seems to change from day-to-day in small villages and towns.
"Most novels progress, but this one simply chronicles an ongoing anomie and spiritual restlessness."-Washington Post.Chatterjee doesn't let the narrative get dull at all.
Way to go Mr. Chatterjee!I wanted to post some of the funny excerpts from the novel.
And so, while I won’t compare him to the character of Agastya in this book (for one, my father never smoked marijuana or thought about sex, ever), that universal, desolate immigrant’s alienation certainly made me think of him while reading it, which is telescopic in a sense because Agastya himself is also thinking of his father during his stay in Madna.It’s very difficult to articulate exactly what this book elicited in me while reading and make it cohere, so I’ll just throw stuff at the ceiling like semi-cooked pasta and hope some of it sticks, to amuse the guests.Agastya (August) is an Indian Administrative Service officer in training, who has left the bustling energy of Calcutta for a forlorn existence in Madna, buffeted from one official to the next and trying to conserve some sense of self.
It’s a good place to read a book like this one, steeped in an sense of passage, of curiosity, of search.
"The mind is restless, O Krishna"I couldn't at once decide - in fact, I debated it a lot internally - whether to brand Agastya Sen's story as a 3-star serio-comedy or a 4-star piece of literature.
Although there seem to be many variables floating throughout the novel - Indian bureaucracy, corruption, tribal development, moral turpitude among the ruling, etc.
Chatterjee classifies himself as an Indian Writer in English here.But there are also the flaws of the first novel, which I believe a good editor would ahve tighetened a great de inserted only to accentuate the depiction of the dour and dull life of the protagonist.
Here is how the conversation goes :Friend : Out there in Madna quite a few people are going to ask you what you're doing in the Administrative Service.
It was an excellent introduction to a novel character Agastya Sen who finds his befuddled way into the labyrinth of the administrative hassle of the Indian sub continent.
They are all caricatures and never fail to have him ( or us the readers) cracking up in silent mirth !Agastya finds his relief in three things : marijuana, masturbation and loneliness.
the passage of a petition or a request for redress (from a petitioner)...moved around from desk to desk, gathering around it, like flesh around a kernel, comment and counter comment, and irrelevant comment, till it was fat enough to be offal for the rats in the office cupboards.' And while the files keep accumulating in government offices, the pattern continues, only the faces change and each year when a new officer joins the service, he is inducted into the ways of this world with cups and cups of tea, followed by useless meetings, desultory conversations by lazy officials, more tea, more discussions and no decisions ever.At the start of the story, Agastya is sent as a trainee officer to Madna, an 'eternally somnolent town' in the vast Indian hinterland, which, as per his bureaucrat father might prove to be a very 'educative experience' for him.
'How old are you, sir?''Twenty-eight.'Agastya was twenty-four, but he was in a lying mood.
Later in his training he told the District Inspector of Land Records that his wife was a Norwegian Muslim.Agastya Sen ('August' to his school friends) is twenty-four when he drifts into the Indian Administrative Service, mostly because he can't think of anything else he wants to do.
The langauge is rich and creative; Chatterjee excels in juxtaposing words and phrases in ways that startle laughter out of the reader.The book is also surprisingly affecting when it describes August's loneliness and disorientation.
And through the prism of this rambling town, Upamanyu paints a composite picture of an India where surprisingly little has changed over the years.The novel is helmed by a cast of eclectic characters: the major ones include the conscientious Mr. Srivastava, his wife, the jovial and enigmatic Sathe, Agastya’s best friend in that straight-from-a-Bruce Robinson movie kind of guy: Dhrubo, the intimidating yet vulnerable Governor Sen; and a whole gamut of minor but quirky characters that make up the third-leads.
I was living in a village in my sales training with Procter & Gamble and feeling the same sense of utter dislocation that Agastya Sen felt and didn't think a soul in the world would understand exactly how alienated I felt with both my current life and my past life at B-School.
Then, I ran into the wise (and wise-guy) Agastya Sen. And suddenly, my world filled up, as I felt truly understood for the first time, making me realize the incredible power of writing in connecting us in this messy, glorious human experience.
I remember this book as a comic masterpiece. I had read it about 18 years ago - yet remember Madna and the protagonist's hilarious flirt with his own life and the surrounding.
I had no idea it was a stoner novel, but I enjoyed it nonetheless.The book gets off to a slow start but shapes up beautifully, and some parts are beautiful.
Its one of the few Indian novels that I have read that touched upon existentialism, although it does come across as the ramblings of a pothead.
The overall theme of the book, I would say is about alienation; about the sense of not belonging, about being so far from home, and about being out of the comfort zone.
Overall I would say its a pretty honest look into the human mind and how people (atleast some people)think in all its naked glory.
Cheeky, sarcastic and impregnated with the characters, recognizable to anyone familiar with bureaucracies - sycophant colleagues, overbearing boss, infamous police inspector and unreliable servants makes it convincing and gripping.The book builds around, Agastya, a half-Bengali, half-Goan guy, who procures a bureaucratic post in the Indian civil service and is posted to a rural village for his training.
For most of his stay, he shirks work and feels trapped between the worlds of modernity and tradition, both extremes familiar yet distant at the same time.
I'd recommend this book for anyone looking for engaging comic novel or going through quarter-life crisis, indecision, dissatisfaction with the working world.
while possibly the most brilliant book I've encountered about bureaucracy, this novel crashes and burns around page 100, sadly dragging out it's swan song for another 200 pages.Don't get me wrong: I truly appreciated the humorous story of a young Bengali man who, after enlisting in the Indian Administrative Service, finds his life directed to a small depressing dusty town 500 km from nowhere.
However, I cursed Upamanyu Chatterjee as I forced myself to finish his novel: "English, August" is only worth starting if you are more than happy to put it down half-read.
DNF I am not annoyed , but guilty for dragging two of my friends to read this book.
It was rude and the lead was just an ordinary guy.There was nothing special about him.Why should i waste my time reading about him when i see the same set of people in my day to day life.
He saw women in a different way .No, this book is not my cup of tea and never will be .
I was blinded by all the great reviews in Good reads .So much for nothing.Maybe it gets better as it goes.
But i don't want to try it .I wont recommend this book for anyone .

And all this is recounted with a brazen sense of abandon and wry humour that it makes you chuckle and smile.More admirably, the author brings a rare emotional nakedness and searing honesty to his protagonist’s internal monologues and observations, not felt by me since James Joyce’s A Portrait of An Artist As A Young Man. There are several brilliant passages that bare the protagonist’s inner most feelings but I continued to be amazed by Upamanyu Chatterjee’s power of perception and his ability to wrench out those thoughts so well.“The noise of the jeep made sustained conversation impossible foe which Agastya was happy.
Okay, I. LOVE. THIS. BOOK.
Chatterji tells the story of a young civil servant posted in a nondescript district in the hinterland.
Sathe, the cartoonist, Mandy, the Pseud-American and Dhrubo-the "mother fucker".The time period in which the book is set adds to the mood of it all.
There are too many layers in this book and I lack the skill to describe them all in a review.
But yeah, Renu(the Punjaban) and Neera come close to being my perfect women.
:)Chatterji does not glorify his protagonist.
The Last Burden was good, but not close..
Mainly, I guess, because it was a heavy read.
Agastya "August" Sen is in training with the Indian Administrative Service.
The back cover blurb for this book suggests it is the Indian equivalent of The Catcher in the Rye or A Confederacy of Dunces, but I think it is instead the fictional equivalent of the Indian Administrative Service: dull, repetitive, confusing.Agastya pays no attention to the job, gets stoned a lot, masturbates, calls in sick, lies for no reason, visits other places while ignoring Madna entirely, talks to old friends he may or may not like.
He's meant to be funny in his angst-y confusion, but I was annoyed and bored.
which are bound to catch you off the guard.
In spite of all this, the overall plot and story didn't work out well with me and slowly the protagonist became kinda repulsive!!!"Agastya!
That's a wonderful name.
What does it mean?""It's Sanskrit for one who turns the flush just before he starts pissing, and then tries to finish pissing before the water disappears."I tried to read it through before the laughter disappears, but unfortunately couldn't...
and then it stinks!!!P.S : I hate the idea of a book having chapters, without having chapter numbers or sub-headings!
Actually a revisit; I am reading now with a friend, travelling across India ( Ah!! joy of reading aloud a passage on an Indian beach);Had read it first time when I was a spring-chicken, hardly grasped its essence; Now having met so many Shrivatsavs, Kumars, Bhatias, Sathes, Mrs Rajans, even Vasanth, why even that bastard Tamse, I feel at home here, It is like returning to a childhood lover who has grown more gorgeous, on whose sweet shapely belly you can lay your head and wonder ... Why, The mind is so restless...Oh Krishna?
What a story! Upamanyu's Chatterjee's 1988 novel is an absolute delight, and so is Agastya Sen's terrible aimlessness. Seldom have I been made to laugh and think so much, and almost never have I read something this seeped in self-mockery. English, August is nothing short of a modern classic, and I will definitely come back to it again and again for the sheer dark enjoyment it brought me.
DNFI wasn't being pulled into the story at all. Also, I really don't like books that contain excessive swearing, sexual jokes/references, excessive substance abuse, especially in a book who's focus is not on these topics. Like a book on drug abuse or something.
after this stellar start he thinks he will just quit, take a lousy job in new dehli and hopefully hang out on his roof, read books, smoke doobies, jack off etc etc.
the reader is pulling for august, really, but in the end....he just can't face a lifetime of bureaucracy and laziness, so comes to the brilliant plan of dropping out and, what?, hanging out on the roof, reading books, smoking....in a sort of inside joke, the author IS a bureaucrat/technocrat and writes novels "on the side".
Where do I even start! If there is a book that's struck a chord instantly and through the entire 300 pages, it has to be English, August. A very very simple premise about that one year the protagonist spends in a remote place in rural India, and how his mind works. Having been in a similar situation battling loneliness amidst other career uncertainties, at time it felt as though I was reading something that I'd penned down. A joyous read with some good writing.
I am Agastya Sen. Period.
If you’re one of them who missed the mark and still nursing the wound of rejection, Upamanyu Chatterjee’s English, August is the book you need in your life.Not that the novel will help you pass in your next attempt but it sure will make you laugh, which is important.
The novel, published in 1988, is said to be semi-autobiographical written by Chatterjee in his late 20s.So even if you never gave a thought about IAS but you are terribly disgruntled with your job, this book is for you too.
Not my cup of chai.
On the plus side (with effort one can see a plus side), Agastya Sen, an Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer in training, describes the bureaucracy in large villages to intermediate towns and small tribal villages, exposing all of the non-governmental motives for IAS activities in the more remote reaches of the Indian government.
One such instance is August Sen's observations of M.K. Ghandi's statue in front of public buildings.
In the early 19th century some tar and feathers may have surfaced to decorate the commentator.In a sometimes horrifying episode near the end of the book, Agastya Sen learns that he will be posted to a tribal area and have responsibility for its development.
This story is about an IAS Probationer put on District attachment duty in a rural remote area.Put on ground he starts having doubt about his career choice.
He starts passing his time wandering from this office to that.
The Naxal hit area lacking the basic amenity of living.
With so many popular names giving high marks to this I didn't give much of a thought before starting this book but I never knew I was up for a big time ordeal.
May be the one who don't do the initial homework before taking up a job which they have to live in.As a whole a Dull.
