https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7538982-life-is-a-dream
i have been reading penguin books in general, and penguin classics in particular for decades,and have rarely been disappointed.
it consists of ten short stories and while i have no quibble with any of the stories in particular, the problem is they are mostly all so similar.
the problem is, in almost every case, the meal consists of the same items of food...sour lungs, bone marrow, trampled cabbages, sorrel sauce, various soups etc.
after about two stories like this, it began to get very tedious, and remained so throughout the entire book, which i did finish.
Krudy is a major talent with either longer novels or short stories such as these.
Krudy is more like Moricz in his observational prowess and Kosztolanyi in his playful style.
If you can recall one of many moustaches soaked in beers and smeared into the back of a hand - you can understand how food/drink works in Krudy.
Krudy is also quite funny whilst being a bit dark - like Schulz and even the Marx Brothers - there is an observational wit to his humor that is hard not to love.
Life is a Dream is a collection of 10 short stories about Hungarian culture, taverns and eating...
lots of eating!!Life is not necessarily always a dream, though.
By story, here is what life is about:Last Cigar at the Grey Arabian ...
an impending dual, a meal and a cigar.The Journalist and Death  ...
an editor who changes his lunch meal because he is entranced with what a fellow diner is eatingThe Green Ace ...
wherever he goes, he cannot pay his billI wanted to read at last one book by a Hungarian author and selected this.
If you're reading Krudy for the first time and deciding between 'Sunflower' or this book of short stories, go for 'Sunflower'.
This collection of short stories leaves something to be desired.
You'll crave Hungarian dishes, travel to several cafes serving a dizzying amount of food, learn about the art of cabbage-trampling, properly spear your bread with a knife, meet the inn keepers and waiters..."People had only one desire in life, to sit down at a comfortable table in a restaurant and eat their way through the items listed on the menu".
I think Krudy must have written these stories while eating in these very places.
It's cabbage everywhere. Entire stories entirely about cabbage. It turns out that Krudy is utterly fixated with food, and not just cabbage. Every single story describes at least one meal in as seductive a manner as he can come up with, and in some cases the stories themselves are just a mere vehicle for descriptions of food. It would have driven me utterly mad with longing, except that Krudy was describing Hungarian delicacies such as sour lungs and cabbage.
Now the dead man was being hauled away to the place where suicides are buried, together with his tree, for nobody dared to cut down the hanged man's rope." I'll leave these lines without much comment; like it or don't.
Sorry, but this was one of those really abstract, fantastical compilations I didn't understand, though I would think that the author loves food, in particular fine dining a lot, because a lot of the stories involve very elaborate descriptions of hearty Eastern European food (in particular meats, stews and soups).I completely was lost for this book.
And it didn't help that I waited for this book a long time, even failing to get it once when I went to the library just for it, and the second time paying to reserve it.
Life is a Dream, apparently the last book of Krudy's published in his lifetime, is a bit of a letdown after Sindbad and Sunflower.
We have lots of description of people eating and drinking and preparing food - cabbage, marrow, sour lungs, noodle soup, etc.), but not so much the insight into our dreams, desires, and wickedness that Krudy displayed in his other books, nor the fantastical prose excursions they engendered.
There are still hilarious descriptions of people, but aside from some ironies about people's deluded certainties about where their lives are headed, and the accompanying judgments about the people around them, in the first two stories, these stories don't really have much meat on the bones.
Short stories, many of which can't really be called 'stories', examining the lives of working Hungarians through the food they are served and eat. The proliferation of broths, marrow bones and sour lungs give the collection a really earthy feeling, with many pieces not resolving and the imminent and sometimes actual presence of death giving the book a dreamy quality. Ten stories do give a feeling of being a 'bit samey', with the longer "The Green Ace" particularly meandering, but some lovely atmospherics along the way.
Short stories by a renowned Hungarian writer. Usually convening bars and characters in them.I found the storytelling a little laden, and without direction . I became less caring for the characters, and felt the opportunity to create old Budapest was missed. I bought this book to read whilst I was in Budapest, and it became clear that the sim of the stories was not to evoke Budapest as I hoped.
Wonderful, funny and poignant collection of short stories mostly about food and drink, imagine Proust's Remembrance of things past in enjoyable, bite-sized chunks.
19th century foodie writes a book of short stories.
Brilliant and funny. Full of memorable characters, scenes, and details.

Collection of short stories, all with a strong focus on food.
I've read 6 of the stories and enjoyed 4 of them.
Something to come back to, later on.) The interesting aspect for me is the quirky endings of many of these stories, and the commentary on life and position in life.
The food descriptions didn't do much for me, however we saw part of the film in class, and the food aspect was a lot more enjoyable there, so I believe that someone who is better able to translate the written words into images of these foods would thoroughly enjoy that aspect.
Yes, a book very much about food. Food so tantalizingly written that drool unconsciously forms around the corners of one's mouth. It takes a truly great writer to arouse such appetites for what, upon closer inspection and remembrance of context, is more a nightmare than a dream
Read "Last Cigar at the Grey Arabian". It was seemingly confusing at first and also felt really pointless but the story relies on this idea of being someone you're not which is why it felt pointless.
dnf at page 127
8/10
A good read. Intellectually engaging.
A series of short stories most of which revolve around taverns and food. Some wonderful description of food. Very odd...
Tales of beer and goulash. I was quite bored by it all, but it's Christmas so I'll give it 2 stars. Maybe it'll look better in a few months time.
Full review forthcoming at The Short Review
A very well written book, with bits and pieces of Budapest life.
