https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/798048.April_s_Kittens
The art looks like charcoal drawings of kittens.
The story is a bit long for a bed time story, but I think that was the trend in the early 40s.
One book to put them to bed.April's father calls their apartment a 'one cat apartment'.
Sheba is the cat and of course she gets pregnant.
Now there are 3 cute kittens.
April is forced to chose, one new kitten or Sheba, but 3 cats have to be given away.
It's a sweet story.My nephew loves cats, so he was taken by this story.
This is less a traditional picture book and more of an illustrated story.
It’s a well-written and charming story, and it has an ending that is delightful.
The end really won me over.The illustrations of the cats are good.
I didn’t completely fall in love with them, but I liked them a lot.There was a lot about this story I didn’t like.
I found the story very enjoyable, and even though it’s over 60 years old, I think many kids today can continue to enjoy it, especially those who love cats.

This is a sweet and timeless story of a little girl, April, and her family who live in a "one-cat apartment" in New York City.
April's dad always warns their cat, Sheba, that they only have room for one cat in their small apartment.
Part of that is the style of the illustrations, which don't include any background details but focus solely on the cats or a child with a cat.
The story itself also doesn't include any glaring details that would date it.
The illustrations of the cats feel like they could jump right off the page and into your lap.
Caldecott Honor, 1940Art Medium: Watercolor, charcoal, and inkFavorite illustration: page 13Favorite line: "'Heavens, no' cried Miss Elwell 'I already have too many cats. You should see my meat bill--it's simply appalling.'"
This is a sweet story about a family, living in a small apartment in New York City, and their cat, who has a litter of kittens.
Otherwise, I think that children today can empathize with the young girl's plight, wanting to keep all of the pets, despite her father's pronouncement that their apartment was only big enough for one cat.
The illustrations are sparse, but the kittens are very cute and there were a lot of "ohhhh"s and "awwww"s from our girls as we read the book.
Living in a tiny apartment, April's father repeatedly tells her they are one cat household.
When her cat Sheba has three kittens, April loves their tiny pink noses and the soft fur.
Mesmerized, she spends an inordinate amount of time watching over the kittens.
Her love of the kittens is balanced with the sadness she feels at her father's comments and his strict adherence to only one cat allowed.Initially, April must choose between keeping her favorite kitten, or Sheba.While literally some may think this is fluffy, the way in which the author writes elicits emotions for any animal lover!
April lives in a tiny apartment.
Her cat, Sheba, has three kittens and the father won't allow her to keep them all.
She can only choose one cat.
She gives away two kittens, but has to choose between Sheba and her favorite kitten.
Everything is saved when the family decides to go apartment hunting the next moring for a bigger place, thus allowing her to keep two cats.
Unlikely ending.I kept thinking, "Why didn't they get Sheba spayed?" But this was written in 1940 and maybe people didn't do that as much back then.
The illustrations of kittens are lovely.
While the story is probably too wordy for the modern child being read to, the illustrations and the characters create a snapshot of life that's so easy to understand that you feel like you got a little chance to eavesdrop on a family for a little bit. I felt blessed to be included in this family circle and came away smiling at the solution (that reminded me somewhat of Chi's Sweet Home, Volume 1 but in a very good way. I kind of wish storytelling was still like this today.
I have to be honest - there was way too much text in this book and I stopped after two pages. The gist of it was that in spite of a warning from 6-year-old April's father that they live in "a strictly one-cat apartment" (in NYC), April's cat Sheba gets pregnant and has kittens, and they have to figure out what to do with them. Newberry's books are all about the pictures anyway.
It doesn't get any better than Clare Turlay Newberry. Anyone interested in children's literature whether it is so read to a child, teach or write and illustrate their own books needs to start here. This is how an excellent picture book is done, folks.
1941 Caldecott HonorI wanted to give this only 2 stars, but the illustrations were great. I really enjoyed them and thought they told their own story, separate from the text. A cute book for its time.
My 5 year old has been sleeping with this book. She gave it15/5 stars...which boosted my rating. Must find her her own copy:)
I wasn't supposed to think for days about which books to choose, just post a list of books that, for whatever reason, were ones that stuck in my mind somehow.
The first book on my list was April's Kittens, a book I'd read many, many times as a little kid and one that informed my concept of loyalty.
(hide spoiler)] My husband also read it and could see why this particular story had stuck in my brain for the 40+ years since I read it.
The father says it's a "one-cat apartment." And then the cat has three kittens, and the little girl falls in love with one of the kittens, but doesn't tell anyone because she doesn't want to play favorites, and really she wants to keep them all.
The parents decide that the girl would like to play with the kitten more than the adult cat, so they plan to get rid of the adult cat.
But the little girl realizes that the cat is going to go to her aunt's house, where nobody really wants her, and she feels sad and worries about the cat and what's going to happen to her.
• 1941 Caldecott Honor Book •“Nobody has much room in New York because so many people are trying to live there at the same time.” I wasn’t really sure about this book but I liked the ending.
There’s a lot I don’t get about the story - Sheba is an apartment cat in NYC and while her family lives in a “one cat apartment” she somehow manages to get pregnant.
This is a typically longer and text heavy book that was common years ago, but the story is actually readable and interesting.
This was the Caldecott honor for 1941 and I definitely think it was better (both in illustrations AND story) than that years' medal winner: They Were Strong and GoodAs far as "Kittens" goes, I really enjoyed it.
The story was simple and sweet, but still had a lot of depth and imagination that would hold the attention of younger readers.
Not just then, but I think today, as well.
The illustrations fit the tone of the book, sweet and subtle.
I loved the way the kittens had more distinguishing features than the humans, but the people weren't merely forgotten, either.
April and her family live in what her father calls a "one-cat apartment." When April's beloved cat Sheba has 3 kittens she must choose which of the 4 will be the 1 cat the apartment allows for and find good homes for the other 3.
In the end, April cannot choose between Sheba and one of her kittens the family has named Brenda so the family begins look for a "two-cat apartment." A very long story about cats.
The artwork was better than the story which was quite long and dragged in spots.
Great story.
A great, classic Caldecott Honor book first published in1940.
A book I would have loved when I was in the 4-6 year-old range.
A great family story of a little girl and the love of her cat and one of the kittens her cat Sheeba has from a litter of 3.
Great character description of April and her family.
Book is great for pre-k through 2nd or 3rd grade for a read aloud or book study.
In reading online found another book by this author, Marshmallow that is based on a trie story and sounds adorable.
I could tell while reading this book that the language and some words are a little old fashioned, and when I saw it was written in 1940 I was not too surprised.
However, this is a unique story about a little girl's love for her cat and new kittens.
It is rather lengthy, so I would recommend it for upper elementary students to read during independent reading time or a lesson on dialogue and characters.
I found that it emphasizes strongly on feelings, adjectives, and dialogue between characters, so I think it could be used as a good narrative to read while students are learning about dialogues between different characters and how characters react to situations.
This won the 1941 Caldecott honor award. The story is simple, April's cat Sheba has kittens and since her and her parents live in a very small NYC apartment, they have to give the kittens away. But April is too attached to one kitten and its mother, so the family decides to move into a bigger apartment. I thought the story was too long and drawn-out, but I loved the charcoal illustrations of the cats, which the author was famous for and used her own cats as models. Recommended for ages 4-7, 2 stars.
April's Kittens is a timeless book anyone who has ever sworn they would not fall in love with a soft little fur ball and in the end found themselves hopelessly in love with one can relate to. April's Kittens tells the story of 6 year old April, her parents, and their house cat Sheeba. Already living under cramped conditions in a New York City "one cat" apartment the family welcomes Sheebas kittens into the world and come to realize the family realizes it is time to make some changes in their lives.
Summary: A cat named Sheba unexpectedly has three kittens. The girl, April is thrilled until her father insists that theirs is strickly a one-cat household. April must give up three cats, but can't decide which ones. How April eventually comes up with the perfect solutions makes for a heartwarming story that has appealed to many young cat lovers and will continue to delight generations of children everywhere. Genre: Picture Book/Children's LiteratureAudience: K-5Theme/Life Lessons:Recommendations/Awards: Caldecott Honor
The style of illustration in April's Kittens is very similar to Marshmallow, but I liked these illustrations a bit more. This might be related to the fact that I also liked this story more. It had more of a human side to it, and though I never had a cat, that concept is something many kids do relate to. I did wonder about the strange pressure April's parents put on her to choose between her grown cat and a new kitten, but based on how the situation resolves, I think it turns out to be okay.
April and her family lived in an small apartment in New York City -- with her black cat named Sheba. When Sheba had three kittens, April wanted to keep all off them. However, her apartment was strickly a "one cat" apartment. Thus, they could not keep them all--heartbreaking! However, they do come up with a solution to keep Sheba and April's favorite kitten--move to a "two-cat apartment".The cat illustrations in this book are wonderful. Children who like cats will enjoy this book!
I enjoyed this book a little more than Barkis, the Caldecott Honor book by the same author. It has pretty pictures, although once you've seen one you've pretty much seen them all. Its a cute story but I believe for a story to become a true classic you have to want to read, or at least be willing to read the story over again. I was happy to read this once and then be done. Barkis was the same. The kids asked me to read it again and to be honest I left a good deal out.
While this book did seem a little boring in the beginning and middle I thought that it picked up nicely at the end. Overall I thought that the illustrations in this book were pretty life-like and the story line a little simple, but a child who likes cats would probably enjoy this book.*Taken from my book reviews blog: http://reviewsatmse.blogspot.com/2008...
Belongs to another era of picture books when children's literature was just that, literature. The charcoal drawings of kittens and cats are so soft, you want to pet them. Most kids won't sit through this in one sitting. I'd break it up for younger kids or suggest it for a higher-level reader who likes to get herself lost in a book.
This won the Caldecott Honor award in 1941. Back in that time period I'm sure that it was an endearing tale. A little girl has a cat who has kittens and she needs to choose just one of them to keep.However, there are extremely minimal illustrations and very heavy text. The story is nice, but in today's world I think a child would bore quickly of this book.
1941 Caldecott Honor Favorite illustration: The end papers with the kittens drinking out of the red bowlFavorite line: "Well, Margaret, what do you think? Shall we get a two-cat apartment this time?"Kid-appeal: Lots of text, so better for older readers/listeners, but we really liked this sweet story and cheered out-loud at the ending
