https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15801668-the-girls-of-atomic-city
Few books deserve it.But I am breaking my own rule on this one.Most of the adult non-fiction I have read in recent years has been pretentious, badly written, and highly overrated by reviewers.
It is not until the first atomic bomb is dropped on Japan that the secret comes out--security is that fierce.Kiernan tells this story from the viewpoints of a number of the women of Oak Ridge, ranging from scientists given the "little woman" treatment, to a local girl who discovers her Yankee boss finds her accent amusing, and shows her off to other officers for that reason, to an African American janitor who is forced to live under demeaning Jim Crow conditions (she is not allowed to live with her husband and can't bring her children to the complex), but finds ways to keep her dignity intact.
This is the story of women who went to work in Oak Ridge, Tennessee during WW2.
I liked the subject, I thought it was interesting.
But these women's stories were told in a bare bones sort of way.
I never felt like I got to know any of them.
Each person's story is spread over the whole book and elements pop up without much of a connection to other parts.
To show how abstract they were and so far removed from the women of the book?
I don't know but found it distracting from the story.
Incredible story of how tens of thousands of ordinary American citizens worked in Oak Ridge, Tennessee and helped build the atomic bomb.
The book features the stories of some of the women who worked in various capacities at Oak Ridge including a chemist, nurse, secretaries, mathematician, and a janitorial service worker.
While the history is utterly fascinating, the writing is just average.
However, I am glad the author included the stories of so many women because they played such an important role in the effort to end the war.
After the bombings occurred, many workers had mixed feelings.
My mother has said that the only thing my grandmother ever said on the subject was that everyone dated a lot during their time in Oak Ridge.
The subject matter was fascinating, but unfortunately I keep getting caught up by sentences I don't like."The effusively outgoing 18-year-old brunette was on line for the shower...""A sudden knock came at the door." (most knocks are sudden to the person on the inside)"She missed her mama, though.
His story is wrapped up in a couple of lines because it doesn't fully keep with the "girls" narrative, but probably merits a book of its own if there hasn't been one already.
Oak Ridge, TN managed to build a complex that employed 75,000 people, all sworn to secrecy.
The bravery of these young women, who left their homes, not able to tell their families nor friends where they were going or what they were doing, especially during this time period boggles my mind.
It also touches on the race issues that existed even in this complex and the many people who disappeared from there and were never heard from again.
Great read on a time and place that few have heard of.
He worked for the National Institutes of Health, and it was his resources there that allowed him to drive the family station wagon out to this place in Tennessee, and pick up a substance to help in the refining of his idea.
I remember him washing the car, inside and out, to "make it safe" for the family to ride in again.
(I remember, because it was the only time I saw him ever wash the car.
I made myself finish this wretched book.
There are some things through the end that were interesting, but the author took a fascinating story and made it impossible for me to get into.
The editor did this author a grave disservice by giving this version of the book the green light.
Wretched.
Wretched book.
I don't know how this book has become bad big as it has.
I can't say enough about the editing - if the story would have been structured.
Maybe she will rewrite it, because the subject material is very fascinating the book sadly was the opposite.
I don't read a lot of history but she made it go down easy by alternating between chapters on the backstory of the technology leading to the actual applications of atomic energy, and chapters about the characters, largely women, moving to Oak Ridge for mysterious jobs during World War II.
But it is amazing to read about the building of this energy city that didn't officially exist during the war, how fast the process moved to creating the elements of these bombs, how much science (and war technology) moved forward during this time.
and unknown.The book is more a series of short stories from different women that are somewhat interwoven together over their tenure in Oak Ridge, Tennessee.
Like a lot of short stories, you fail to really connect with any of the characters other than just finding out random bits of information that compose their daily lives over their interesting and puzzling pasts.
The book is well written, it's not dry or anything like a lot of history, but it lacks the professional polish that other historians are able to achieve.
And as the title indicates, many of those living there were women, and this book features their life and experiences.This is the story of Oak Ridge, Tennessee where uranium was enriched for use in the first (and so far the only) atomic bombs used in war.
One of the unique features of this book is that it sort of parallels the secrecy experienced by the workers by referring to the raw material they were working with as “tubealloy.” I kept asking myself what in the world is tubealloy?Many of those working there noticed that everything goes into the place, but nothing comes out.
The uranium from Oak Ridge was used in the bomb dropped on Hiroshima.
But there was no stopping the Project.Within a couple of years 75,000 people lived in Oak Ridge.
The scientific work to create a “sustained nuclear reaction” is also covered as well as the other science and engineering needed to bring The Project to a successful and deadly conclusion.Leona Woods was a twenty-three year old assistant to Enrico Fermi, the Italian physicist.
But it was complicated for women with families to find housing on the grounds of the Project in Tennessee called Clinton Engineer Works then Oak Ridge.
The Girls of Atomic City: The Untold Story of the Women Who Helped Win World War II by Denise Kiernan presents an unique insight into the highly classified Oak Ridge complex.
The real story, however, is the young women who left their homes and families and joined(unknowingly) the Manhattan Project.
The book is very well written and follows the daily lives of the women in the complex.
Away from home for the first time and with a well paying job meant freedom.
The Girls of Atomic City presents personal look at the secret Oak Ridge complex during Word War II and the women who worked there.
Audiobook narrated by Cassandra Campbell4****From the book jacket: At the height of World War II, Oak Ridge, Tennessee, was home to 75,000 residents, consuming more electricity than New York City.
Thousands of civilians – many of them young women from small towns across the South – were recruited to this secret city, enticed by solid wages and the promise of war-ending work.
That is, until the end of the war – when Oak Ridge’s secret was revealed.
Cassandra Campbell does a fine job narrating the audio version.
This book not only follows the historical facts surrounding the creation of this fuel source but also the creation of the city where the people employed to do the first enriching of uranium worked.
I wish the author had specified how many were women ad how many men.
How the residents of the city saw themselves while working "to win the war" and afterwards when they discovered what their role really had been was honest - a mix of both pride and shame.The audiobook I listened to was narrated by Cassandra Campbell.
The making of a biscuit pan, the thick Southern accent of one woman to her her Yankee boss - just little parcels rather than complete pictures.Interspersed were chapters about the scientific side of "Tubealloy" and how it was coming to be discovered, refined, and processed for use in the "Gadget." Some of these sections, though interesting historically, were a bit dry.Overall, it was more a broad picture of the years leading up to the end of WWII and some small moments in the lives of some of the women who were working in the place which was secretly refining the uranium for the bomb.
Content: 5 starsExecution: 3 starsThis is a great story of some of the women who helped with the making of the first atomic bomb. It was fascinating how they were recruited and then carried out their jobs. I loved reading about the history here. I just wasn't crazy about the writing. Some of it was kind of dry and weighty. Before it even really got started, I thought I wasn't going to be able to do it.....but I'm glad I did. The story was worth the read.
A problem that President Roosevelt and the U.S. Army tackled full on.A triumvirate of top-secret scientific sites popped up across the U.S.: Manhattan, headquarters of the think tank; New Mexico, testing grounds for the future bomb; and Oak Ridge, Tennessee, expansive industrial site to make the most important component of the bomb.There was a slight problem: The Army needed vast tracks of land, construction of the largest buildings in the world, and over 75,000 people to live in utmost secrecy to work in the production facilities.
Girls of Atomic CityThis is the perfectly executed history book: It tells a story from a side (women) that most people haven’t heard.
These women didn’t know what was going on, they didn’t interact with one another, and they never ever talked about work… and in many ways that’s the structure of the book.
Some people have complained that this structure kept the reader from immersing in any characters story, that you never felt connected or care about any of the women and the story.
Both are excellent books, but I would give the edge to this one.Kiernan introduces the reader to nine unique ladies who worked at Clinton Engineering Works under the cloak of secrecy.
From the opening cast of characters, places and things,the map of the facility, then in between the ladies' stories, the author inserted shorter chapters explaining the science that took place at CEW, followed by 30 pages of notes for further enlightenment, then concluded by an index of terms.
As mentioned, the writing style was excellent primarily because it read like a novel, not bogged down because the smaller details and scientific facts were melded together by the relevant short chapters between the story chapters.
Many sacrifices were made for families and individuals in the effort to end the war ---losses of lives, land, and a community that resulted from the Manhattan Project.
The woman in this story are wonderful, (several still alive today), Ya gotta wonder -- when these woman occupied a wide variety of roles at Oak Ridge during the 'Secret Project' ---(living in a 'man-made-secret-community)-- told not to ask questions -- but did jobs such as work with blowtorches --did these woman (the workers) receive as much credit as the leaders did?
(The "Cast of Characters" list at the start of the book lends to this idea of a grand saga.) But I didn't respond favorably to Kiernan's cherry-picking of stories of women involved in the Project - whether centrally (e.g., Lise Meitner) or peripherally (so peripheral I've forgotten their names) - just because they were women.
I understand why she did it, but I got that Orange Prize-feeling (if anyone knows what I mean).I've read a lot of books about the Project (and my bookshelves are filled with several more I have yet to read), and this one will not stand out.
I made it to page 111 in chapter 5 and I'm calling it quits. The construction of this book is lousy. It jumps all over the place, there are too many characters to remember, none of them are memorable, the author relates WAY too much information about the specifics of making the bomb and only provides mundane snippets of the lives of the "girls" and I AM BORED TO TEARS!Read with SBC book club November 2016 (or not, as the case may be)
Per FTC rules: I received a free copy of this book as a giveaway from Goodreads First Reads.What an outstanding read!
I've made a point of contacting the author to let her know what a great book this was, and it certainly is the best book I've read this year.
This story, based on interactions and interviews with the women who worked (and lived) at Oak Ridge, is truly remarkable in both its telling and its creation.
These women played an integral part in the creation of the atomic age.
It's a wonderful book that you will not want to put down.
The Girls of Atomic City is crippled by its lack of focus.
The story of women working in Oak Ridge, TN.2.
The story of the production and release of the atomic bomb.
Of these three, the most interesting is #2.
The only woman whose story stuck with me was Kattie's.
I could read a whole book about her and other black workers forced to do the shit jobs in Oak Ridge.
Hers is a story of grit and determination in the face of adversity.
Which is interesting for about 10 pages.
An atomic bomb of disappointment.
The information in this book is very interesting, however....it was very long, very detailed, and highly technical, and it didn't make me want to keep coming back to the story to see what was happening to each one of the characters.
I read it for my library book club, so I made myself read 25 pages a day so that I would finish it in time.
And I hate to say, as much as I wanted to know about this subject, if I hadn't been reading it for book club, I'm not sure I would have finished it :/
A nicely written, well-researched story on the creation of the atomic bomb.
The book does a good job of bringing the science down to an attainable level for most readers.
It's not an in-depth scientific look at the A-bomb by any means.
Rather, the author tells the story through the women who moved to Oak Ridge, TN to work on the secretive Manhattan Project.
In similar fashion to The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks, the book alternates between scientific/historical accounts and delving into the personal lives of the women.
I actually would have enjoyed knowing these women at a deeper level than is presented in the book.
A very interesting book on the building and running of Oak Ridge, Tennessee which developed the fuel for the atomic bomb during World War II.
The opportunities for young women were especially attractive and they are the focus of Ms. Kiernan's story.The style of Ms. Kiernan's writing capture's the nature of the intense secrecy surrounding every aspect of working and living at Oak Ridge.
The surprising part of this story for me were the many high level and intricate jobs that women were doing.
I've read the Los Alamos end of the atomic bomb program but this story of the part Oak Ridge played was new and interesting.
More specifically it is the story of the many young women who came to Oak Ridge to help win the war.Ms. Kiernan gives a first hand account of the young women who came to live and work at the plants that the government was constructing in the newly formed city of Oakridge, TN.
For some it was more money than they had ever seen in their lives.For many of the women, the job was something they wouldn’t have been able to get elsewhere given the fact that they were women.Reading this book is like traveling back in time, learning about how life was in Tennessee and the US in the 40s.
In a nutshell, Girls of Atomic City explores some of the women who helped keep things going during the war in a project located in a facility in what is now Oak Ridge, Tennessee, one that was geared toward putting an end to the war,as well as a place that tens of thousands of people called home.
The women, along with the majority of men working at Oak Ridge, had no clue at all that everything they did helped to contribute to the production of the atomic bomb that was used first in Hiroshima, and then Nagasaki.
Wonderful, interesting story.
Fantastic collection of facts I didn't know about the building of the enormous Tennessee's Atomic City at Oak Ridge which was dedicated to the actual processes of creating and assisting the scientists of the Manhattan Project.
ALL IN SECRET.
Creating a secret city of 75,000 people is hard to comprehend as well as the fact that most of those in residence had no idea what it was they were working on.
Boggles the mind.I only gave this three stars because it's rather dry and hard to engage on any level except the facts.
Still very much worth the read.
