https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/158992.The_Gammage_Cup
I really liked the main character, Muggles.
It was fun to watch her grow and develop as a character.
For example, "A net across the Little Trickle won't catch fish in the Watercress River," or "No matter where There is, when you arrive it becomes Here." I had a few problems with the ending.
I also had problems with the cover illustration.
Obviously the illustrator hadn't read the book, because it just doesn't match.
It's a relatively small thing I know, but it always bugs me when the cover is just completely wrong based on details from the story.
I was given this book as a gift when I was in the 4th grade during an anonymous gift exchange at school. I remember being so disappointed. Little did I know that the adventures and acts of bravery in this book would still be with me 30 years later. I have read it many times since then and still love it today.
Once a week, I enjoying reshelving library books at the local library as a volunteer.
One particular rainy, autumn day, I ran across this book.
The age of the book was what first caught my attention, and I must admit, I often judge a book by its cover.
The cover was intriguing.
Forget the alarms of this day.” And so all the villagers, excepting the challenging five, obey without a word of rebuttal.Read the rest of my review here:http://www.thehomemaking-cottage.com/...
One of my favorite books as a kid and I still love it. Solid and fun fantasy novel that I highly recommend as comfort food with a dash of excitement.
In the village of Slipper on the Water there live five Minnipins with different ideas, and they are ostracized from their homes for not conforming to the way their neighbors think they should behave.
Now, it is up to the rebels to save the very people who have turned them out.This is a story about the dangers of becoming so rigid and set in beliefs and traditions that there is no tolerance for other ways of living.
It is a tale showing that none can live in peace and safety until we are all willing to tolerate and accept those that are different from ourselves.
"When something happens, something else always happens."-MugglesThis quote is a sample of the whimsical writing you'll find in Carol Kendall's wonderful fantasy tale, The Gammage Cup. The whimsy is not without substance, and much of the story's content is a document of American attitudes towards conformity and individualism during the Cold War era.
The Minnipin people find themselves threatened by a race of beings who were no doubt inspired by the red scare, and their only hope lies on the shoulders of a handful of individuals proud of their uniqueness.900 years ago, the Minnipins settled in the Land Between the Mountains, which is protected on all sides by mountains and has no way in except a river that hasn't dried up for centuries.
I think this kind of simplicity would have appealed to me as a kid, and might have actually gotten me to read this book, but after having read things like The Hobbit and Harry Potter, it felt weird not to be given pages and pages of detailed exposition about the setting.
For kids who want to try fantasy but don't like scary stories, or who have read The Hobbit but aren't yet prepared for Lord of the Rings, this is the ideal book.
There is a little-known short story by Kendall that appeared in 1946, titled "Curley Green Builds a House" - here we find a figure small enough to shelter under a mushroom (and who is, curiously enough, male, while the Gammage Curley Green is female).
Kendall chose to have only one race for all her characters (her Mushrooms are equivalent to Tolkien's goblins - simple utilitarian foes with no names or personalities).There is a fair amount of homespun philosophy strewn throughout the book, in the chapter epigrams and elsewhere.
He also choose two of the Periods (who had spoken the most strongly that he was telling tells) to be two of the selected fifty to fight for the protection of the village.Mingy (the one who choose to be an outcast with them) showed great thinking strategically, for after he had been captured he used his brains so that the enemy would not be able to retreat the way they had come and gather another army to attack again at a future time.
This is the second time that I have read this magnificent fantasy children's book, the first being in childhood with my mother, and I found it as wonderful as the first time.
But sometimes it is refreshing to take a break from mentally demanding books, especially since I am right on the verge of a new school year that will most certainly entail intellectual and 'deep' academic material that will challenge me well enough.
It is designed for children, and I certainly got the most out of it in childhood when it cemented itself as one of my favorite books of all time.
Muggles came to a full stop to gaze at the door, which was as scarlet as Curley Green’s cloak and blazed in the morning sunlight like a bright welcoming smile.
Though this is often marketed as a “young adult” book, I tend to think that is more because, for a long time, the fantasy genre was thought of as slightly frivolous (not only rude, but dead wrong.)Another thing to love: Muggles and Curley Green, the female protagonists, don armor and carry their own swords (not to mention actually USE them!) which was practically unheard of in fantasy in the 1950s.
The heading of this comment box says "What did you think?" but The Gammage Cup is a book I read first many years ago and will continue to reread, so my thoughts on it are on-going.
It really is my favourite book; it never ceases, despite the fact that I have nearly memorized it, to make me laugh, to make my heart race, to sweep me up into the events and the characters' lives.
Kendall has written a story in a style with a background that makes me green with envy.
So it's a children's story.
Not once did I ever think that this book would become one of my all time favorites. In fact,I can't say that I even enjoyed the first few chapters. This book has such a wonderful,magical quality to it (my brain finally realized) that I just want to keep reading more of it.I love the characters; heck,I even like the mushrooms! Reading about the glowing swords,glittering cloaks, and the houses with their green-painted doors made want to be there. It's not often that I find a jewel like this in my school readers!
I've been reading a lot of middle school literature lately-- so that I can discuss with my children. I guess I don't get it. Yes, the book is odd. But it all seemed so predictable to me: social outcasts saving the day and earning the respect of their peers... I felt so unsatisfied when I finished. Maybe children would appreciate it better than an overly critical adult?
I highly recommend this to anyone who likes fantasy! It's well written, imaginative, and a keen social/personality commentary put into a fun and interesting story. This is the kind of book that teaches kids valuable lessons while they're not looking. :) As Lloyd Alexander believed, "fantasy [is] not an escape from reality but a way to understand reality." (Who Should We Then Read? by Jan Bloom)
It was all right but I didn't find it to be any thing special. The characters were quirky and enjoyable but I was intensely bored while reading after the 30th page or so. I couldn't tell you exactly why but this just wasn't a book that got to me or kept my interest.
I read this book several times as a kid.
I knew it by where it was located at the public library but could not remember what it was called when I thought back to this book years later.
Finally in the last year a word popped into my head as I thought of the book.
It is a story of bravery, friendship, doing the right thing through pressure to be different, and being your true self (letting your true colors shine through!) As a kids book, there were some weak plot lines, but I thought it was well done.
As a former educator I read it to my fourth graders for many years.
It is a story about a town of Minipins and uses humor and insight into a community that has a ruling class that has power and think of themselves as wise while the other villagers are "simple." There are a few villagers who are more free to think for themselves who are eventually banned from the village for being different.
There are so many discussion opportunities as well as a sense of humor that emanates from this book.
After years of retirement, it was a delight to read again.
This is an absolutely delightful children's book about conformity and courage, about belonging and staying true to oneself and being part of a community.
To my delight one of the main protagonists is female, and although at the beginning she does not think much of herself, she is quite sensible and competent and is respected by many of the other characters.
The story itself is simple but has one of my favourite things in it, people building from the ground up, and I really liked how realistic it was about how different people work and create differently, and how one encourages them to put effort into things without judging them.
I am curious to find the sequel and see what I think.
Certain books from my childhood stand out in my memory.
I remember snuggling with my mom as she read The Little House in the Big Woods.
I read all of the Little House books 3 times as a girl.
I remember the Borrowers, with little Arrietty.
It has clever characters with whom you can identify; it has battle scenes; it has unlikely heroes; it has a moral, but isn't painfully overt about it; it has some pretty awesome swords.Hopefully, this book will stand out in my son's memories as well.
I really enjoyed this book when I was a kid, and when I came across it as an adult, I decided to read it again.
I can say that I had good taste as a kid.
This book is a good adventure read that mixes in a theme of respecting individuals as distinct from bossy group-think.
This book describes a village where there is tremendous pressure to all be and look the same.
There are a handful of free-thinkers who are kicked out of the village.
They end up thwarting an attack, which results in everyone doing a group hug at the end.
This book will be read and re-read in my house. I have read it three times personally, and I have read it one time to my kids, all younger than 6, and they already want to read it again. It is an allegory, a very sophisticated allegory, with some themes that I really want to disagree with, but I can't bring myself to do so because they are so intricately interwoven with other themes that I really want to agree with. Artful writing, clever, hilarious, profoundly insightful, this book belongs on everyone's must-read list, and the sooner the better.
Meh. Reads like someone read The Hobbit and became poorly inspired to write her own version: smallish people (Minnipins) who live predictable lives and who generally shun difference; a small group of these folk (who are deemed different and so are banished) go off on their own on a quest of sorts and stumble onto magic swords that light up when the Mushroom People (human-like creatures who live in the mountains) attack, and so on. And written by someone who is no Tolkien. Yoicks.
I read this book as a kid and decided to listen to it again (I didn't have much else to do to keep me occupied during my 15-hour shift). It's a simple story, definitely meant for a younger audience but it presented a timeless message that I think more people need to hear. Kid or adult, I think anyone can enjoy this tale.
This book was okay. At sometimes it was a little confusing and a little hard to follow but other times it just got you hooked into it. I feel like The Gammage Cup book tried to be a little silly and make you laugh but the humor was kinda weird. I would recommend this book to kids my age just because I don't think older people would like it as much but that is just my opinion.
I needed a palate cleanser after 1Q84 and this is the book I chose. I read it as a kid and loved it and I read it again and still love it. This is a fantasy story about what it means to be different and there are invaders from coming through the mountain and funny poems and friendship and I love it.
4.25 Stars
I LOVE this book! The humor, the conspiracy theories, the government, the sameness, the characters! If only everyone could be as sensible and sweet as Muggles. And hooray for keeping things in piles!
Really fun read-aloud... I'm not sure why it took so long to stumble across this one, but we're so glad we did!
Fantasy just isn't my thing
