https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14959.Strange_Fits_of_Passion
A dark, engrossing tale of domestic violence and it's aftermath. Maureen English runs away from. her abusive marriage with her 6 month old daughter Caroline, ekes out a life for herself in the remote , cold fishing village.. Her wickedly clever husband sniffs out her trail and encounters her. The tragic aftermath is brilliantly described as excerpts from a journalist interview .We come to know Maureen, Howard, Jack and many others through their letters and interview with the journalist. Enjoyed the book despite its slightly boring pace.
Anita Shreve writes a gripping story. In this one, the setting of a small town on the coast of Maine, during a frigid winter, had me turning pages very quickly. A lot of sympathy is generated by Mary, a battered wife, who has left her former life behind. Much nuance is added to the tale by having events described by different characters.
Unlike other novels that use a lot of “I” and seem to have only one character speaking and playing role the whole story, this novel is different and to tell you the truth the kind of writing she uses in this novel Strange Fits of Passion is new to me.
Anita Shreve does not write her novel “Strange Fits of Passion” based on chapters of accidents, yet she writes the story as if you were reading memoirs or testimonials from people who are directly or indirectly related to the main character, so sometimes there are some flashbacks.
As in her past books, the characters are unlikable and I feel she is a very manipulative, intrusive author.
The characters feel like puppets on a stage; I never feel transported by the writing.
In this case, the narrative is intentionally disjointed because the bulk of the story is related in a series of writings and interviews by the major and minor players in the tragedy.
The characters were unable to overcome their base desires which seems to be excused in some way by their personal circumstances or time in which they lived (ca.
Fortunately, this was a library book so I couldn't employ my usual stall tactics.
There are many different characters in the book, some I loved, and some I couldn't stand, but I felt I had the opportunity to know each and every character.
The author depicts the city in such a way that I actually felt physically chilly at times as I was reading the book in my humid Texas climate!
I have read several books by this author and have enjoyed all of them, but I have to say that this one is my favorite so far.
I wish I had read this before I began writing creatively because it is so instructive, and I was really intrigued by her craft--the method she used to unravel this tale.
Pacing and revelation in this work are everything a reader expects from this author.
While I love her penchant of teasing out only what readers need to know to stay engrossed in the story, her main characters are always somewhat thin.
I inhaled this book rather than read it.
Definitely a good read, even if I saw where it was headed, even if she was a little stingy in the character development.
Then, it felt like Shreve did a quick wrap-up that included a lot of explanation of how society didn't understand abuse in the 1970s.
But we all know that, and many writers have written much better on the topic.
But earlier in the book there was a mention of a neighbor who appeared concerned and made halting comments about hearing noises.
Shreve needed at least a sentence stating that the neighbor couldn't be located for trial.
Otherwise, a lack of mention blows the idea of no witnesses to the abuse.
Small point, I know, but it was easily fixed with a smarter edit.
This isn't the Anita Shreve book I'd recommend to others.
I didn't enjoy reading this emotionally unsatisfying story filled with alcoholism, domestic violence and other forms of violence.
The story, which is set in the late 1960 or early 1970s, follows a sequence of events set mostly in a small cold town in Maine filled with a cast of colorful characters that you'd find in small cold Maine towns.
I'd recommend "The Last Time They Met" if you want to read one of Shreve's best works of fiction.
These two versions are presented to the daughter of the wife 20 years later, and the whole idea - I think - is to show how our views about this nasty subject have changed, and how repulsive the attitudes of the early 1970s were towards women in this situation.
That's not a bad idea for a novel, but Anita Shreve spends such a lot of time painting the setting and atmosphere in thick slabs of local colour (winter in a Maine fishing village) that what seems to be the main point of the thing loses focus.
This is a beautifully written book, collected as a series of interviews and anecdotes that form an article.
The article in question revolves around a murder case that took place in St Hilaire.
We are offered a series of insights into the motives of the characters and most importantly, the central character, Mary, or Maureen as she was known; she assumed a new identity as she sought to escape from her violent husband.
The writing is amazing, especially the change of pace as the character goes from a bustling New York to the quieter lobster town.
The first half of this book was so hard for me to read.
I love Ms. Shreve and have read every book that she has written (this being my last until she writes a new novel), but this book was disturbing.
The second half deals with the promise of a new life which was a little bit easier reading.
I will not even mention what happens because I know that would ruin it for so many readers.Although I found this book difficult to read most of the time, I still found it even more hard to put down.
I am reading the quick purchases from the Naseby book sale! I quite enjoyed this; the violent husband seemed a timely topic. However the multiple voice and time frames were less successful, I thought.
It is told from the perspective of several individuals acquainted with the main character, Maureen English, aka Mary Amesbury, fleeing from an abusive husband, taking her infant daughter with her.
She stops in a small coastal town in Maine for the night at a motel and signs in as Mary Amesbury.
She needs a few groceries and stops at the only place available in town, picks up a coffee cake, milk and a 6-pack of beer.
I thought I was reading comments by the author Shreve because it refers to books she has written and why, but no, it is the novel.
This was such a good book. I could hardly put this book down! This was my first book by Anita Shreve and I really like her as an author so far!!
What had been written wasn’t what they had meant to say at all."Even though the title is lifted directly from the William Wordsworth poem about his beloved Lucy, it fails to capture the grit and tenderness of the story, which Shreve reprised again in Testimony.
Although I was on vacation in North Carolina near the beautiful Blue Ridge Mountains, since the story so easily transported me, it’s likely, had I read the book during a routine week, I would have still felt miles away.
This book showed me how the truth can so easily be stretched or twisted to a version that is completly the opposite of what really happened.
It also shows how a person can intentionally relay the "facts" with a choice of words to influence, or proselytize to their own advantage.
Journalists are meant to report the facts, and yet this story demonstrates how deeply the manipulating of the truth to shape another's future, can effect the indivduals of the tragedy.
This book also showed me that if you aren't honest with yourself and the people around you, you are the one to blame if you are later misunderstood.
But she marries him and spends two years getting beaten by him before she takes her infant daughter and runs.
She wanted too many things; not to have to run any more, to be in love even when the circumstances made that a bad choice, to keep her secrets from those who may have been able to help her.
I know that often police and social services can't help with domestic violence, but at least if you have it documented then you have a leg to stand on when you shoot the guy, right?
I give out too many 4's and 5's, so this very entertaining Anita Shreve book will be the first book I will sacrifice to a 3.
There are just too many books far better than this that deserve a 4.
There is probably no truth here, only what is perceived and how Maureen is judged, as a battered woman in 1971.
Maureen is the most interesting thing about the story, but the story was good and I was riveted for two days.
Sorry, Anita Shreve, your book had to be the first one to be judged more harshly.
Absolutely incredible story!
I almost had to do a double-take to make sure it wasn't a true story because it seemed so real.
The story was captivating and intense.
I also liked how there were different voices telling the story.
Sometimes you just want to get mad at some of the characters because you want them to help or understand; you want to jump into the book and shake them and say: "This is what's really going on!
Believe it!" I read it fast because I always wanted to know what was going to happen next.

Anita Shreve's Strange Fits of Passion is an engaging, beautifully wrought novel that takes the reader by the hand and immerses him/her into a tale of fear, hope, sorrow, magic, and love. It contains moments of suspense and excitement. It is a wonderful examination of marriage gone wrong and the risks one takes for a child, safety and a safe harbor; it also revolves around the theme of love and loss.
An interesting read on how battered wives were thought of back in 1971 (maybe she did something to deserve it), and the lies, cover ups, and misunderstandings that go along with it. Shreve may have been trying to convey that things have gotten better in these 40 years since, but that's debateable. I think this is one of Shreve's better offerings.
I really liked this book until just about the last chapter. The ending ran like a term paper that had to be exactly so many words, and with the ends of the story snipped off and stuffed back into the seam, it barely made it, limping to the finish.As a side note: Are there books written about spousal abuse where the wife picks up and flees to the city? Because I can't seem to find any....
Anita Shreve is not my favorite--but I decided to give it another go. I really did enjoy this book. Each chapter is a different perspective based on notes from a journalist. The narrator is writing an article about an abused woman who tries to hide from her husband. Very compelling!
This was similar to reading a Jodi Piccoult book. It's very engrossing and emotional. I liked the main character and her direct and honest telling of her story. The excerpts and asides from other characters were great for other perspectives.
Well written. the story of an abusive marriage is told through the wife who experienced it as well as some people from the town she escaped to and the author of an investigative reporter who wrote about the tragedy. Story occurred in 1970 when spousal abuse was just swept aside.
I enjoyed this book. It wasn't an edge of your seat thriller like my usual sort of book, but it was compelling and I was keen to find out how the sad tale ended. My first Anita Shreve story, but I will look forward to more!
Loved this book.
I always enjoy Anita Shreve's writing and this book was no exception. The character development was top-notch, coupled with a plot which moved along steadily and kept the reader's attention.
Just finished...this was an awesome book. I couldn't put it down.
