https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99170.Capote
Far and away, that’s the best part of the book.How TC became famous was that he mooched into the New Yorker and tried to get a job and did but got fired then mooched into Harper’s Bazaar, a ladies’ fashion magazine which happened also to publish a lot of top short fiction, and got a little menial job there, then pushed a couple of his short stories at them, which they read from kindness, and then fell of their chairs, and published them.
Truman Capote died at age 59 in 1984; this 1988 biography by TIME writer Gerald Clarke, despite a welter of Capote books concurrent with the two similar biopic movies a dozen years ago, and continuing interest in the "Tiny Terror," this still is the best general-interest bio (IMO).
So many versions of this estimable book have appeared over the years (hardcover, trade pbk., two-movie tie-ins, reissues) that if one could line them up and arrange them, they'd provide a gallery of Capote likenesses running all the way from late youth to late life.
Capote: Gerald Clarke's Literary BiographyIt took me a hellishly long time to read this book.
Because Capote's life is often not a pleasant subject--not from childhood up to his last days, lost in a fog of Vodka and drugs.And I've taken a hellishly long time to absorb what I've read and decide what to say about this book.
But Persons did lose.Having won custody, Lillie preferred spending her time with her new person rather than Truman.
Nor does Clarke explain why Harper Lee disappears from the pages of Capote's biography.As he matured, Truman seemed to choose lovers most likely to promote his career as a writer.
4/5 interesting book i loved it

After reading this biography I consider Truman Capote a second rate writer.He also branched into play-writing, scripts for films and acting – none of these of any lasting significance.
His career is a reflection of the American century.The author does focus on his literary works and the obsession of ‘In Cold Blood’.
His literary art reached the pinnacle but after publication there was a long slow decline leaving him, at the end of his life, a drunken, pill-popping maniac.On the subject of ‘In Cold Blood’ I seem to remember reading elsewhere that Truman Capote played down Herb Clutter’s domineering personality in order to sustain a sympathetic portrayal of the family.
In my opinion the author assesses various aspects of his life appropriately, but leaves some areas grossly underrepresented or wrongly assessed.
For a concrete example of this, Capote's adolescent experiences of being the victim of coerced sex by boys, is playfully written off as relatively innocent forays (spellcheck) into sexuality.
Since when is coerced sex relatively innocent?
His experiences with a pedophile teacher, I felt, were also grossly underplayed.
DO NOT read this book if you are planning to read Other Voices Other Rooms ...author gives away story!
I also had an issue with authors interpretation of Other Voices, I think he missed some crucial elements.
if you are going to read one book on capote, this is it--please excuse the hackneyed phrase, but it will make you laugh and cry.
I honestly feel like i understand truman and i wish i wouldve known him.
quote by Truman Capote from Conversations with Capote by Lawrence Gorbel:"This man Gerald Clarke who's writing this book about me--do you know him?
He's one of the lead writers at Time magazine.
He's really a very good writer.
I've never known such research.
I don't want to read it, but he certainly knows more about me than anybody else does, including myself."
Easily one of the best biographies that I have to ever read. I have to say Geralde Clarke did wonderful job on this book. This is a lengthy book but not omce did I ever lost interest or felt even a tiny amount of boredom.Style of writing is marvellous . Complex psychology of Truman has been laid out easily in this book.His Ascend as well as descend of his career is well depicted in this book.If you enjoy reading biographies please pick this one
Not surprisingly, Truman Capote knew hundreds of famous people.And Gerald Clarke introduces every single one of them with a mini-bio of his or her own.Unfortunately, Clarke doesn't use Capote's groundbreaking "nonfiction novel" technique in this biography.
It often reads like a textbook, the chronology gets all out of whack and it never feels like a narrative.Granted, he had an astounding amount of material to work with, including years of interviews with Capote and those closest to him.
But honestly, it was just exhausting.Sidenote: It was incredibly interesting to read this and Mockingbird: A Portrait of Harper Lee back to back.
Capote plays a huge role in Lee's biography.
As Truman got older and began pursuing a career in writing – as well as a slew of homosexual lovers in a day and age when homosexuality was taboo – Capote began making quite a name for himself and, in a way, a flamboyant and larger than life character.
The pinnacle of his success was with the writing of In Cold Blood, a book which arguably created the creative nonfiction genre, if not eh “nonfiction novel,” as Capote called it.
Ironically, Capote said that he couldn’t complete In Cold Blood until the drama of the situation ended.
The man had so much brilliance and too many "red devils."His rise and fall seems so much like that of his mother Nina (on which the character Holly Golightly was partially based and with whom he had a love/hate relationship).
Like his mother, he had his face pressed against the window to another, better world.
Like Nina, he took his own life in the end.
And ultimately, he'd realize that the lovely swans of his social circle weren't that much better than the rest of society.
I loved the first half of the book, but the last half was so hard to read.
It is very difficult to criticize any biography of Truman Capote.
My other technical beef is - if you see someone every other week, you are not seeing them biweekly.
If this mistake can appear in our institutions of higher learning, is it really surprising that it would show up in a book?
Meh. I consider writing a book Formal Writing, but I think I am becoming the minority in that.Where Mr Clarke really shined, however, was in his absolutely perfect summaries of the various stories Mr Capote wrote.
I would still recommend it to anyone curious about Truman Capote.
This is a great, engagingly written biography of a fascinating author and person.
I do, however, wish I'd read all of Capote's works before reading this.
Clarke gives away far too many spoilers for my taste.
In the telling of the writing of many of Capote's works, Gerald Clarke gives away just about everything there is regarding plots, and even the endings.
If you've already read everything you intend to read by Capote, I highly recommend this biography.
He was surrounded by other fascinating people all the time.
Very well written and supremely entertaining...just much too long.
I gave up three quarters of the way through Truman Capote's life story.
Gerald Clarke is a wonderful writer and held my interest with his smooth, story telling style.
I just got bored and still had six hours of reading left on the Kindle version of this I borrowed from the library.
Also, knowing how Capote's life unravels slowly into a haze of booze and drugs ending in his death, I may have just wanted to end on a lighter point in his life.
I will definitely try reading the rest of this book soon.
The plushness of the details in this book rival one of Truman's velvet suits. I feel like I was a fly on the wall of his incredibly dramatic life. I rocket soared with him to the top of literary fame and glory and felt such sadness and frustration that his later years sank into such addiction and dysfunction. Very well written. The only downside: All those details created a very heavy book, but that I can happily deal with.
Currently, this is the best biography written about Capote. Could not put it down.
I wish Gerald Clarke wrote a million biographies. I would read every one of them and be so smart. haha. Really, I would read about anyone he chose to write about, whether or not I had initial interest in that figure. His work is that engaging.
After reading this biography, I have the strong feeling that Capote was a genius, but almost impossible to know as a friend. Lots of detail. Particularly intense when covering the In Cold Blood years. Impossibly sad during the decline and fall.
Quizás es porque tengo idealizada la biografía de Kafka de Reiner Stach, pero yo quiero que una biografía esté contada como si fuera una novela y que no se limite a contarnos los hechos, sino que también los analice, que se intente meter de verdad en la piel del biografiado para comprenderlo.
Por ejemplo, se pasa de puntillas sobre el carácter del también escritor Jack Dunphy, que queda totalmente difuminado, y ni se preocupa en intentarnos explicar los mecanismos de la relación que éste mantuvo con Truman, durante más de 30 años que se dice pronto.
(nb: I received an advance review copy of this book from the publisher via Edelweiss)After he published “In Cold Blood,” Truman Capote was the most famous writer in America, if not the world.
Its novelesque telling of a true story received widespread critical acclaim, intrigued the countless readers who bought the book, and was turned into a successful Hollywood film.This was also the apex of Truman Capote’s life.
All that was left was the incredible, ugly fall.Gerald Clarke’s “Capote: A Biography” is widely considered the definitive story of the tiny acerbic writer who captivated readers.
Soon after, Truman Capote’s life began falling apart, and Gerald Clarke was there for the final years.
My husband got to page 374, and put it aside, asking me to tell him if he should finish it or not.
Being only mildly interested in Capote, I found that I could only read the book for an hour to an hour in a half at a time.
He talked to hundreds of people who knew Truman, and even more importantly he spent 9 years observing and interviewing Truman himself, often in restaurants, but also at Truman’s home on Long Island as they both lived only a few minutes apart from each other.
So, did I tell my husband to finish the book?
I also told him to read the Afterward, which is only three and a half pages long.
Lots more about Capote I'm not sure I really wanted to know; but in the end it was a very complete picture of who he was: his dysfunctional childhood and bizarre parents, his demeanor and homosexuality, writing history and published pieces (I totally forgot he wrote "Breakfast at Tiffanys" in which Monroe was supposed to play Holly Golightly but Audrey Hepburn got the part), famous friends and acquaintances (is there anyone he didn't know?), both helpful and mostly destructive partners, and his ultimate demise from drugs and alcohol.
This book provided a microscopic look at the man, how and why he wrote what he did, and all the famous people he knew who ultimately abandoned him in the end, just like his parents and partners.
Do I dare read In Cold Blood again?
Yet it was never enough for him, as he felt the bitterness of never winning the Pulitzer for In Cold Blood.I remember years ago seeing him on tv in the 1970's, a soft and silly man with a high voice and exaggerated mannerisms.
Yet reading his prose, it was difficult to connect that outrageous caricature with the man who could write so exceedingly well, with such power and intensity.
I enjoyed reading Capote, and getting an inside look at this puzzling, troubled genius, one of the greatest American writers of our modern time.
This book is probably the definitive biography of Capote but the addition of some slender volumes by Capote's family really fills in the gaps.
She was his cousin and she takes the books he wrote on his childhood and then recalls the situation she feels influences them: A Christmas Memory, The Grass Harp, Children on Their Birthdays and Other Voices, Other Rooms.
But if you want only one book to read on Capote, this it it.
If you want to fill in the gaps, I came across several books in the courthouse museum on a trip to Monroeville, Alabama and have already cited the one I felt had the most insight.
I'm not a huge fan of Capote's skimpy literary output, but wondered how Scout's buddy Dill, a poor southern boy, became Truman Capote.
After scrapping his feckless father, Truman Capote's mama married money --- lots of it --- and by the time he was 15 he was a rich little Yankee boy living in Manhattan with his folks.
A born entertainer, at 19 he was tiny, beautiful, brilliant, outrageous, and the darling of fag hags Gloria Vandebilt and Oona O'neill; and was as well known as Tinkerbell ( the pooch in Paris Hilton's purse --- not the one with clap).
If you watch some of his interviews on YouTube it is obvious that Capote, though outrageous and odd, was no lightweight.
What a compicated and tragic figure.
The book really has two Truman's, the pre In Cold Blood Truman who sounds like a wonderful person to be around, and the after In Cold Blood Truman who becomes a vindictive, vengeful drug and alcohol addicted Truman who hardly resembles the person in the beginning of the book.
It was almost a strange parallel between Truman's wait for the killers to ultimately be executed; and this author's wait for Truman to finally kill himself with drugs.
A good biography is worth the 500+ pages, and the time it takes to read it.
The Gerald Clarke, biography of Truman Capote was worth every page turned, in my opinion.
Capote was quite the character.
I have regret for something that is wholly impossible; to live near Capote and be able to experience his life, first-hand.
I could say a lot about this book, but I think you should read it.
Find your own joy in the pages of a life that seems almost impossible to be true.
It is due for a re-read, very soon!

Extremely well-researched and organized, and generally well-written, though occasionally it's hard to follow certain anecdotes or recurring figures because of the sheer volume of both.
But, and I don't really think it's fair to blame Clarke for this, I find that I'm losing my enthusiasm for desriptive biographies.
As fascinating a figure as Capote was, and much as Clarke does to recapture his escapades and describe the psyche that drove them, I didn't really feel much closer to understanding the person behind the personality.
Maybe, in the end, that's capote's fault, because one gets the impression it was always his goal to be a character.
