https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1426697.Trial_and_Error
If a man knew that he was soon to die, would it be a good deed to kill an evil person, such an one that brought misery to a group of people; perhaps a blackmailer?So the story begins as Todhunter plans to remove just such a person from the world.After finding the perfect subject and killing them, he is soon horrified to learn that an innocent person has been accused of the murder and is sentenced to hang.The extremely conscientious Todhunter is horrified and turns himself into the police hoping to save a life, but the police don't believe him and think he's cuckoo.Todhunter is soon busy with a group of trusted friends trying to plant evidence that will prove he is the real killer.The book really takes off at this point and I found the suspense unbearable at times.
I had never heard of British Author, Anthony Berkeley, 1893-1971; quite prolific and seemingly well received in the mystery realm.
Sayers and other mystery writers founded the Detection Club in London in 1930.
The Line - ”Mr. Todhunter began to feel, not without surprise, that he had really been excessively ordinary all his life, and if this drab record were ever to be broken now was the time.”The SinkerLawrence Butterfield Todhunter is facing an imminent death.
I have not enjoyed a mystery as much in some time.
A mystery by noted critic Anthony Berkeley.A dying man murders an obnoxious jerk. The police arrest an innocent person, and the killer has to prove himself guilty. A novel premise, but the book seemed awfully smug and self aware.
The novel also boasts great characters, dialogue and attention to detail that is simply riveting.
Moreover, the novel is filled with a good deal of humour despite its premise and its incessant focus on death.
Yet what elevates Trial and Error from a good British mystery to a great novel is its notions of absurdity.
And in the final scene even these ideas are challenged, as Berkeley twists the entire story into something altogether different.Trial and Error is additionally a success due to its innocuous protagonist.
Lawrence Todhunter is barely a character, a simple man with simple ideas, impressionable and easily influenced, harmless in every dimension of his being.
Middle-aged Mr Todhunter asks a group of friends a seemingly hypothetical question — what’s the best use some one can make of their life when they have only a short time left? The answer is almost unanimous — become a benefactor to humanity by murdering a deserving victim. In this creative twist on the usual murder mystery, Mr Todhunter undertakes a quest to do just that, but how can he find one? An engaging and sonetimes humorous “backwards” mystery.
Totally brilliant!
This is deservedly a classic of crime fiction.
A man with a terminal illness, and just weeks to live, decides to benefit humanity by killing a Villain.
He chooses a total monster and does the deed efficiently, or so it seems.
But an innocent man is then accused of the murder.
And the police dismiss the confessions of the true killer as the ravings of a lunatic.
Solution: the killer must prosecute himself!
Anthony Berkeley has great fun with the resulting court room farce in which the defendant struggles to prove his own guilt against the stupidities of the legal system and British politics.
It is impossible to express how clever this book is without spoiling it. It is criminally out-of-print but well worth getting your hands on.
Recommendet by Laurie, thanks. Not so sure, wether it is a book for me, but the blurb and the review by Laurieare interesting enough, so I bought it instantly. Also, I am still bored by The Circle, which at 30% left to read I do not really want to DNF, more like FastForward to see how it ends.

This was one of the cleverest and most fun books I've read in a while.
Mr Todhunter begins as a nondescript little man who gets an idea: since he's going to die soon of a heart ailment, why not do something for the betterment of humanity before he dies?
He consults with friends, posing the question as a hypothetical, and the idea they come up with is that such a person should kill a bad person and thus reduce the misery of those the bad person is harming.
But who to kill?
Honestly, this book was a delight.
It fits fairly neatly into the 'classical puzzle' pigeon hole of crime fiction in that it's the mystery itself that takes centre stage, as opposed to the psychological elements that are more the hallmark of contemporary examples of the genre.
Mr Todhunter is a late middle aged fussy bachelor who, when given a diagnosis of a terminal illness, decides to commit a murder (as you do!).
The first half of the story concerns his motivations (such as they are) for the murder and then the selection of his victim.
A book for diehard officionardos of crime fiction only, I would suggest.
Tác giả dài dòng lê thê từ đầu tới cuối truyện, từ phần mở đầu mô tả tâm lý nhân vật để dẫn đến vụ án mạng tới việc xử án và kiện tụng.
Nếu bỏ đi được nhiều phần dài dòng quá mức thì phải nói truyện cũng hay và khá cuốn hút.
Tác giả có phong cách viết hài hước và rất thích trêu đùa nhân vật cũng như người đọc.
Nếu ai kiên trì đọc được đến cùng thì sẽ rất thích cái kết vì nó có độ trêu ngươi cao nhất!
This was just perfect. Which is more brilliant, this or 'The Poisoned Chocolates Case'? Well... As both are exceptionally entertaining and highly ingeniously plotted, it's a tough decision. I have no doubts, however, that I want to read more witty crime thrillers from Anthony Berkeley as soon as possible!
Highly original and well constructed storyThis falls well outside the conventions of the usual murder mystery and that is what makes it such entertaining fare. The plot is well constructed—in fact quite clever— and mostly plausible with a few surprises along the way. The title is perfectly suited to the story.
What would you do if you were given only a few months to live? And there was no possibility of a cure or survival? That's the question our protagonist has to answer in this twisty mystery. Glad it's back in print and ebook -- well worth reading
Excellent Golden Age mystery. Had me laughing out loud several times on the bus.
'Trial and Error' by Anthony Berkeley is a 1937 crime classic.
Berkeley sets the typical murder story on its head with a devious and complicated plot.
Lawrence Todhunter is dying and wants to do a noble deed to help humanity before he goes.
He decides to murder an obnoxious person who is ruining the lives of a number of people.
This was definitely a crime with a difference and the first three quarters of the book is gripping and thought provoking.
Then it becomes a tangle of legalese as a trial is described in so much repetitive detail I tired of it.
Trial and Error is in equal parts entertaining and frustrating.
It's entertaining because Anthony Berkeley's writing style is frequently very amusing with striking characterizations and I loved the way it plays with the conventions of the detective genre.
It frustrates though because it takes a long time for its themes and ideas to be fully realized, only really coming together in the final chapters, and the ending struck me as a little anticlimactic.The premise is a lot of fun however and while it may not have been the novel I hoped, on balance I enjoyed reading it.For a more detailed review check out my blog Mysteries Ahoy!
So far he is a "two trick pony" as far as I am concerned, either some version of "inverted" or of the multiple solutions idea.The twist at the end of this was so clearly signposted early on that it was hardly unexpected.The person murdered was again a strong, independent woman, condemned for behaving as many men would (abusing a position of power).
Most of the men in this are, to my mind, pretty despicable.Some reviewers have characterised this as black comedy as much as a "mystery".
There's no denying the premise of this novel--a murderer struggling to prove his guilt rather than his innocence--is unique, and the set-up to that premise, which takes up the first half of the book, is wonderful fun.
The protagonist Todhunter is delightful--eccentric, irascible, bull-headed and oddly endearing.
But once he (finally) achieves his goal of getting put on trial, the novel's momentum slows down to a crawl.
We suspect that he actually isn't the murderer he believes himself to be, and that the real culprit will be revealed at the eleventh hour.
Gave this 4 stars for originality. It was a clever idea that still contained a mystery element. The last section in the courtroom which got a little long as there were lengthy sections that did not reveal any new information. Fortunately the book is divided into enough different elements --- the planning, the murder, the detection, the courtroom, etc. that it keeps it interesting.
A lovely English mystery: a morality tale. Great duscussion starter for a bookclub
A novel premise that kept me guessing until the final page. Writing is reminiscent of Patricia Highsmith, with a more optimistic view of humanity.
Actually more like 3.5. I liked to the writing style and the characterizations, but found the story a bit long. Read for Eagle Harbor Mystery Book club.
Synopsis: a terminally ill man murders someone and, with Ambrose Chitterwick's help, tries to prove himself guilty.
This book is amazing!! It takes your standard mystery novel and turns it upside down and sideways. I can't tell you anymore; it surprised me! !!
Dear, dear!'"One of the strengths of Anthony Berkeley's Trial and Error (1937) is the plot's ability to astound the reader.
These days I am not eager to read any mainstream mysteries, crime novels, court dramas, etc., particularly the bestsellers: they are almost always totally paint-by-number jobs, where the superficial details of the story may vary yet the deep structure does not deviate from one of a limited set of reusable patterns that have been proven to sell.Trial and Error is different.
In Berkeley's inversion perjury is needed to tell the truth.
Literary homebody has months to live and decides to do some good by ridding the world of some horrible person or other.
But when the murder takes place and another person is arrested he now must prove his guilt to a skeptical judiciary.
This sounds like an excellent premise for a mystery -- Highsmith might really have made something of it.
Berkeley does not pull it off.
Second, the book is too long by at least a third to sustain Berkeley's tone of dry, understated comedy or the artificalities of plot and characterization.
There are a few good twists in store for those who persevere, however.
every time I decided to read it I had a smile on my face as I found Mr. Todhunter the main character to be hilarious and the events that lead up to his demise are intriguing and very circumstantial. The whole premise of the book to me is very comical. Who would have thought that anyone would come up with the idea of ....... and that would come to mind as the last thing you wanted to do on earth before you pass.
I picked this on my vacation at Fremantle from a seconds shop. Thriller though towards the end you can predict who the murderer would be. I rank it high for the characterization of Todhunter. Suave , eccentric, cultured and lovable. You can not help but fall in love with this character - with all his idiosyncrasies! Enjoyed the book a lot
