https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48203.The_Professor_s_House
But when the time comes to abandon his old, rather uncomfortable and chilly office, St Peter can’t stand the thought, and so he decides to continue working there, bringing back uncalled memories revolving around Tom Outland, a mysterious but highly talented student of his, who broadened his horizons but also his family’s.
Willa Cather embodies the wild beauty of the landscape and the proud honor of the American pioneers in the figure of Tom Outland -quite a symbolic surname, indeed - a man devoted to the old world and its traditions.
Godfrey St. Peter, the professor, has a cynical outlook on his future, his relationship with his wife, his two married daughters and their husbands, and especially the new house they are moving into.
St. Peter wants his old house, his old study, and his memories.
Especially the memories of his old student and friend, Tom Outland.
The middle section of the book about Outland's earlier life in the American west was perfect Cather.The beauty of Cather's novels is in her writing and her characters.
She captured a time and a slice of American life and history that is unequaled by any writer in her generation.
No, I don't have the issues with my spouse or my adult offspring that he does, but there are other things that can make one feel distant and drained (even temporarily) at such a time in life.The title notwithstanding, this book could also be called "Outland" (that would make it sound sci-fi, though, wouldn't it), the surname of the young man at the literal center of the book, a young man who through not much fault of his own has influenced the lives of all the characters, for good or for bad.
Cather not only excels with her sense of place in terms of character, she excels at getting to the heart, soul and mind of her professor.
Two of the three sections of the novel are about him, his family, their recent fortunes, and his writing space in the older home (which he refuses to leave.) The other section, the one in the middle, is the story of Tom, a student of his who died young and left money to his daughter, allowing her to live quite comfortably with her new husband.
The professor's wife is very much enjoying her new status and comforts of having a rich son-in-law and daughter, and the professor is being left pretty much alone in his old house as he wishes.
He's almost mythic to some and is awarded his own section to narrate some of his own history, especially his time on the mesas of New Mexico.Far up above me, a thousand feet or so, set in a great cavern in the face of a cliff, I saw a little city of  stone, asleep.
I have several on hand and will gradually make my way through them.Highly recommendedP.S. Anyone who has visited the Southwest, even in these modern times, has probably had a touch of the experience written by Cather for Tom when seeing cliff dwellings.
A beautifully written story with many undertones to it. On the surface it appears a story of family life, quite mundane really but there are hidden depths here. Wonderful characterisation of all the characters I felt not just Godfrey St. Peter, even the periphery characters all had their time on the page.A gentle novel, but heartfelt and reflective.
Willa Cather pops the big question : How do wekeep living when there's nothing to look forward to?Midwest prof in his 50s has finished his book.With 2 married daughters, a bizee wife and thememory of a prized student killed in WW1, hescalpels his soul."He knew that life is possible, may even bepleasant, without joy, without passionate griefs.But it had never occurred to him that he might haveto live like that."
Tom Outland had not come back again through the garden door (as he had so often done in dreams!), but another boy had: the boy the Professor had long ago left behind him in Kansas, in the Solomon Valley--the original, unmodified Godfrey St. Peter."This boy and he had meant, back in those far-away days, to live some sort of life together and to share good and bad fortune.
I actually read this before. I have a habit of re-reading books I like during the summer. Why? Who knows?I read this for a grad class on Cather and it blew me away. Strangely intense little book. At first, it doesn't seem to be about much, but it's worth a close reading.Her best known books (O Pioneers, My Antonia) aren't really her best. They are often taught at the high school level, and I think people often think of her as slight. But some of her books, like The Professor's House, pack a real intellectual punch.Highly recommended.
As the contents of the old house are moved into the new house, the Professor remains in his study in the old house – surrounded by the objects he has lived with for so long.
Books, papers, his old couch, and the dress making forms left behind by Augusta with whom Professor St Peter has shared his study twice a year – and now feels oddly at home with.“The low ceiling sloped down on three sides, the slant being interrupted on the east by a single square window, swinging outward on hinges and held ajar by a hook in the sill.
For one thing, the writing is wonderful, transcendent with out being the least bit extravagant.The critic E.K. Brown encourages the reader to ponder the true significance of houses in this novel: the professor’s dwelling places, both the old and the new, the grand country house being built by Rosamund and her husband – and the community of small houses atop the Blue Mesa.And then, of course, there is that final house, that final bed, the inevitable ending that S.t Peter finds occupying his thoughts more and more.
Well, this was very pleasant and all, but...have you ever heard of a bridge version of a book? Don't feel bad if you haven't; I just made it up. What it is is you know how there are abridged versions of books, where they include the important and exciting parts and chop out some of the meandering and tangential stuff? Have you ever wondered what happens to that stuff they chop out? Well, that ends up in a bridge version of the book, and that must be the version I read because nothing fucking happened.
Regelmatig deed dit boek me denken aan het (veel recentere en door mij erg graag gelezen) boek 'The Sense of an Ending' van Julian Barnes, ook al is de verhaallijn helemaal anders. Blijkbaar ligt de thematiek 'man van middelbare leeftijd overschouwt zijn leven' me wel.Aanrader dus voor mensen die net als ik houden van een elegant geschreven boek over dit thema, en het melancholisch gevoel van verlies dat daarmee gepaard gaat.
This is my first Willa Cather book and I am not sure I will read another.
The first chapter was boring, but the book picked up after that.
Professor St. Peter is a successful professor and author.
He seems to have a successful marriage with two married daughters.
He starts reviewing his life and finds he has lost an essential part of himself.I found there were pieces of the story line that just disappeared without resolution.
I am unsure why it was included in the book; it didn't seem necessary.I'm hoping that my Goodread's group will help me put the pieces together.
Another wonderful novel by this author (my second + I've read a short story by her)Her descriptions of landscapes are second to none and how she describes light shining is like an artist painting a picture ..I cannot wait for my next Willa Cather book.Thanks to Tom, who I buddy read this with via often very long messages, and who is far more articulate and scholarly than me.
This part of the book tells about his relationships with the people in his family who seem to be very involved in acquiring material possessions.The second part of the book is told in the voice of the brilliant Tom Outland, the Professor's favorite student.
Tom shows the excitement of discovery, and has beautiful descriptions of the mesa.The third section of the story involved the Professor transitioning into the later years of his life.
By the end of the book, I had an appreciation of where the Professor was in his later life and felt that he had made peace with himself about his future.
But as the time comes to move to the new house, St. Peter is more and more reluctant to leave the old one, in particular the attic study where he spent so many hours writing his book.
On the surface, there’s no reason for St. Peter to be other than happy, but it’s clear he has regrets and reservations about moving forward with his life as it is.The book is very minimalistic.
You are given a limited amount of information about the characters and selected events in their lives.
The characters are intriguing and I continually wanted more detail, more background.
El profesor St Peter, un investigador del legado español en Estados Unidos de reconocido prestigio, se muda de la casa en la que ha vivido con su familia toda su vida y en la que tiene su estudio a otra más moderna y con más comodidades.
Sin embargo, él continúa alquilando su antigua casa, para no perder sus referencias y un poco también por no mandar a la familia al cuerno en un despiste.El verdadero protagonista de esta historia no es, sin embargo, el profesor St Peter ni su familia, sino Tom Outland, un antiguo alumno suyo excepcional que ha inventado un motor que revolucionará la aviación.
We are held at a close third person so we don't actually get into the characters' heads, but the detailed account of appearance and action allows the reader to feel very intimate with the characters.The layout of the book is interesting in that it consists of three "books." The first book is entitled "The Family" and follows the Professor as he works to finish his own writing while teaching and balancing the various dramas unfolding in his life and the lives of his family members.
The final book is entitled "The Professor" and is a very short wrap up of the novel which focusses on thoughts, emotions and actions of the professor after he reads and ponders Outland's story.The overarching plot of the book is interesting if not terribly engaging.
She had a plot line developing, revolving around some tensions between the two daughters of the professor, a potential lawsuit over the fortune amassed by Rosamund(or was it Rosalind?) And then she interrupts this developing plot to go into some background about Tom Outland, which I didn't mind but when she took up telling about life in Hamilton again she decided NOT to resolve or follow up with any of the plot she had already been developing.
The professor comes to believe that his essential self is who he was as a boy and that all his ties to his family and society are secondary and are a constructed self.
I chose it because a podcaster I admire called it one of his favorite books of all time!But, having read it, I think I won't be mailing it out.
HOWEVER, I would give it a five-star rating if every part of it was as insight-filled as the very end section which rang true true true for me.
It's not a long book so maybe it's worth a read for others?
My three-star rating means it's good, I liked it, but I won't read it again or be the one to recommend it to others.
I know some of my Goodreads friends will be reading it before or after the particular podcast is aired.
My first Willa Cather....I may have lost my taste for classics, this seems like a relic to me.
All the while reading I could picture myself in freshman English class with an assignment to write an essay about the symbolism of St Peter's inability to move house.Anyway, I found it a bit of a slog but it was a short read and I'm glad I finally finished it.Just to show that there is value in every book, this Booktopia selection led me to read about the Willa Literary Award which is Women Writing About the West.
Read about the Willa Award here....http://www.womenwritingthewest.org
Geoffery St. Peter (professor) moves into a new house, but keeps the old house as a study.
A brilliant student, Tom Outland, invents a new engine that makes a lot of money.
Tom dies in WWI, leaving his fortune to his fiance, Rosamond, one of the professor's daughters.
Rosamond and her new husband become parvenus.
The book is half about primoral America - the Blue Mesa in New Mexico, swimming in delicious Lake Michigan and half about the transition from middle age to old age and wanting to sleep, rest and contemplate the universe.
"He had never learned to live without delight." Föredrar att fokusera på ramberättelsen: campusroman-cum-medelålderskris. Originell och existentiell.
Re-read; first time in 2006. A stunning book, packed with so much and yet always lithe and elegant.
That latter story, told in splendid lyrical prose that pays reverential respect to nature's beauty and humankind's capacity for greatness, is a synthesis of the philosophical underpinning of the book: the fight for authenticity, honour and being true to one's inner self, the one buried under the piles of family and social conventions, obligations and pressures.
I don't think I've ever read a book quite like this one - I think it can be described as an exploration of the process of disintegration of the fabric of social convention, shared history, family, chance and everything else we call life, and returning to our earliest selves, before we were moulded by external forces.
I'm not sure what I think of this book.
It is listed on two different "1000 books to read before you die" lists.
But I really don't see what all the fuss is about.It is not a bad book, and it is written beautifully.
In the second section of the book, you get a real sense of the Southwest (New Mexico).
And the part set in DC is very evocative of the bureaucracy that runs through that town.
But the writing is so well done, I will want to read another of the author's work before making a final decision on her work.
I knew that Cather wrote about the immigrant experience, but after having finished The Professor's House, I realized that her talent in capturing the nuances of the human experience was not solely limited to the immigrant life.
There is so much more to her books than I had judged, and admittedly, The Professor's House set me straight.In life there are pitch-perfect moments, and when they arise, they are sometimes just so good you don't ever want to let them go.
His study is simple and not overly adorned, but the things in there represent the tangible moments of his life and successes.
As a result, St. Peter and his family are able to build a new house and move away from the ramshackle rented quarters in which the Professor and his wife have lived and raised their family.The family consists of two daughters who, when we meet them, have married and gone their own ways.
The second, shorter, part is a flash-back and tells the story of Tom Outland who Professor St. Peter befriended many years before and who grew up in mysterious circumstances in New Mexico.
Cather has a beautiful style of writing and capturing emotions/ thoughts and moments that are difficult to put into words.
I felt similarly about "My Antonia." Even though not much happens plot-wise in either of these novels and "The Professor's House" really centers on events that happened in the past, it was a beautiful read because of the sense of emotion and nostalgia it manages to capture.
The part told from Tom Outland's perspective was actually my favorite piece of the novel because there were so many lovely natural descriptions.
Overall, a very beautiful book, but a strange plot (or not much plot) to center an entire novel around.
