https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/91202.Chariots_of_The_Gods
بنظرم باید به دیدگاه فون دانیکن احترام گذاشت و اگر حرف درستی می زند آنرا پذیرفت و اگر حرف نادرستی می زند با دلیل و منطق آنرا رد کرد در چند سایت خواندم که خیلی از حرفهایش ناشی از تخیل یا دروغ می باشد و این ستون فلزی که زنگ نمی زند وجود ندارد.
Right?I have to admit that it was seriously entertaining though, mostly in imagining who it was who played the practical joke on Däniken each time he sticks his neck out on an imagined 'fact'.
Surely ancient India was home to intelligent (and highly literate) animals as well as the sporadic aliens, all conspiring to befuddle the poor humans into worshiping them and then mythologizing them.The mistake is to rigidly try to classify the myths as facts or stories.
hell, he could have done that purely by reading a few comic books!By the way, was it only me or was Däniken's usage of the word "utopia" just all over the place and far away from the accepted meaning?
Erinnerungen an die Zukunft = Chariots of The Gods, Erich von Däniken Chariots of the Gods?
Unsolved Mysteries of the Past (German: Erinnerungen an die Zukunft: Ungelöste Rätsel der Vergangenheit; in English, Memories of the Future: Unsolved Mysteries of the Past) is a book authored in 1968 by Erich von Däniken.
به عبارت دیگر، کلمۀ: «خدایان» که در کتاب‌های باستانی، و تورات آمده، در واقع موجودات فرازمینی هستند، که انسان‌های آن دوران، به آنها «خدایان» می‌گفتند.
در این کتاب، نویسنده به بررسی آثار، و نشانه‌ های باقی‌مانده از مسافران فضایی، در میان آثار تاریخی، و باستانی، و عهد عتیق، می‌پردازد.
اما این کتاب حقیقت را برای شما فاش خواهد کرد، حقیقتی که محققان در این مدت طولانی سعی به کتمان آن داشته اند.فقط یک نکته ی کوچک هست:(view spoiler)[این که تصویر فوق سراسر ساختگی است.
مقبره ی پاکال به شکل زیر است، که در آن نه اثری از ماه و ستاره هست، نه ماسک اکسیژن و نه سفینه ی فضایی:و کل این ریویو یک شوخی و ساخته ی خودم بود!
But his speculations, his assertions have always left a rather bitter taste in my mouth, a feeling that the author in many ways actually despises humanity, and that he especially despises and cannot accept the fact that individuals like the Mayans, the Egyptians, the Aztects were able to create, to think with cleverness and intelligence (read their OWN cleverness and intelligence).
brilliant psychedelic wonderous book.even if you dont believe a word of it.if you enjoy it there is a book called 'the spaceships of ezekiel', by j.f. blumrich (a NASA engineer), in response to daniken.
how sure i was!I soon lost my grin, became profoundly curious, and what followed was a wonderful experience, unusual in evert respect, an undertaking which was done exclusively in my spare time, since NASA, my employer, is not engaged in such matters.
Hardly ever was a total defeat so rewarding, so fascinating, and so delighful!"i think this is the perfect response to daniken.
دوستانِ گرانقدر، نوشتن و نقد از این کتاب هم دشوار است و هم به نوعی تکراریبهتر این است که این نوع کتاب ها را علمی و تخیلی، قلمداد کنیم..
چراکه نویسنده در قسمتهایی از کتاب مانندِ صفحۀ 183 الی 190 ، تکیه بر داستانِ موهوم و تخیلی آدم و حوا و نوح و پسرانش دارد و برایِ توضیح در مورد شرمِ جنسی، به لخت یا برهنه بودن آنها اشاره میکند و در قسمتهایِ دیگر بارها به هر دلیل به افسانه هایِ کتب به اصطلاح آسمانی رجوع میکند ...
پس اگر بخواهیم این کتاب را در دسته بندیِ ادبیاتی وارد کنیم، به دستۀ علمی و تخیلی نزدیک
چراکه نوشته های مربوط به دانش، ممکن است در آینده، درستیِ آنها اثبات شود و البته اگر هم اثبات نشود ایراد ندارد‎ولی جالب اینجاست که خیلی ها بدونِ آنکه این کتاب را خوانده باشند و بدون آنکه کوچکترین پژوهش تاریخی انجام داده باشند، این نوشته ها از "فون دنیکن" را افسانه ای و موهوم میدانند و میگویند: به عقل جور در نمیاد..
3.5 Stars I think this sums up the book  Don't misinterpret my rating. I gave it 3.5 stars based on entertainment value alone. To sum up the belief the author, in the past, aliens visited pre homo sapien man, bred with the women and came back later to check up on us and breed a bit more.The author attempts to prove his theory that aliens visited ancient man by stating repeatedly that ancient man, given the knowledge they apparently possessed, could not have accomplished, without help, many of t
3.5 Stars I think this sums up the book
I gave it 3.5 stars based on entertainment value alone.
Clearly the author believed that ancient man was a stupid religious being.I could rant on the stupid theories in the book but I will let you do it yourself.
Although many of the theories are nothing but wild postulation, the subject matter is interesting.
I have always been intrigued about the possibility of alien life, so, crazy as this guy is, its a fun subject.I read the book like a wild piece of fiction and was not disappointed.

The thing that had me shaking my head in amusement was when the author tried to draw some deep meaning about how these certain temples are connected to the length of the year on Venus and then get that figure wrong.
One thing to think about is that they could survive without technology and we could not.
Throughout the book I noticed that he would insert his theory into conversations about real science and drop in discussion by real scientists and yet not draw the distinction between the established idea and his idea.
If you read his book and survive, you may well make a good scientist.
Baseless, factless, and filled with ridiculous presumptions. It's amazing that with arguments to poorly presented that this book seemed to have such an affect on American culture in the early 70's. It's simply a get-rich-quick scheme from a Swiss ex-con that paid out good. It fed upon people's need to feel that we come from something "out there." Be that out there from a god or from aliens... it's really all the same. von Daeniken just gives another "Intelligent Design" myth.I give it one star for the good laugh you can get out of reading it.
This is pseudo-science and story telling at its very best.
This best selling book was probably the water shed moment in the proliferation of conspiracy theories and other pseudo-scientific stuff in the popular literature.
To be fair, the author does know how to spin a yarn.
But the disturbing fact is the sheer confidence of the author in his most ridiculous and logic-defying assumptions and hypotheses.
It shows the sheer absence of clear, scientific thought among the masses and the adherence to half-truths, myths and conspiracy theories.
As long as that prevails, works like these will keep on attaining best-selling status.
In my opinion, I feel that these kinds of things being told to us is just another way to brainwash people into thinking that it's non-existent.
People who automatically disregard Daniken because his notions may sound "bizarre" need to do their own research and experience things.
ارابهٔ خدایان، نخستین کتاب اریک فون دنیکن ، منتشر شده در سال ۱۹۶۸ است.تلاش نگارنده در این کتاب بر این است که به رازهای دنیای باستان پی ببرد و تاثیر نیروهای فرا زمینی (خدایان) را بر زندگی بشر کشف کند.
"او معتقد است که در گذشتههای بسیار دور، فضانوردانی از سیارات دیگر به ملاقات اجداد ما آمدند و به آنها تمدن و راه و روش زندگی را آموختند.
اما نیاکان ما که بسیار ابتدایی و وحشی بودند، آنان را خدایان فرض کردند و به پرستش آنان پرداختند و هزاران فرقهی خرافی با رنگ و بوی مذهبی را به وجود آوردند و این گونه
ارابهٔ خدایان، نخستین کتاب اریک فون دنیکن ، منتشر شده در سال ۱۹۶۸ است.تلاش نگارنده در این کتاب بر این است که به رازهای دنیای باستان پی ببرد و تاثیر نیروهای فرا زمینی (خدایان) را بر زندگی بشر کشف کند.
اما نیاکان ما که بسیار ابتدایی و وحشی بودند، آنان را خدایان فرض کردند و به پرستش آنان پرداختند و هزاران فرقه‌ی خرافی با رنگ و بوی مذهبی را به وجود آوردند و این گونه از درک وجود خدای راستین به دور ماندند و زندگی خود را به کجی‌های بسیار آلودند".
Erich von Daniken's Chariots of the Gods is, of course, one of, if not the, classic works of pseudoarchaeology and UFOlogy.
Von Daniken blithely ignores close to a century of archaeological and anthropological theory so that he can tilt at the windmills of some imagined scientific "establishment." Most of his "arguments" consist of something along the lines of "We're not really sure how pre-historic people built this, so aliens did it.
To document all of them would take an entire book and, what do you know, someone bothered to do it.
Go check out Ronald Story's The Space-Gods Revealed: A Close Look at the Theories of Erich von Däniken.
I HAVE ALWAYS BEEN INTERESTED IN AND FASCINATED BY ANCIENT CIVILIZATIONS,TECHNOLOGIES,AND RELIGIONS.
ERICH VON DANIKEN INCLUDES SOME COMPELLING PHOTOGRAPHIC EVIDENCE OF THE RUINS OF ANCIENT CIVILIZATIONS AND THE INCREDIBLE TECHNOLOGIES THAT MUST HAVE BEEN AVAILABLE TO PRODUCE THEM.
HAVING BEEN TO EL CASTILLO AT CHICHEN ITZA,MEXICO MYSELF, IT IS VERY OBVIOUS TO ME THAT THESE ANCIENT CIVILIZATIONS SUCH AS THE MAYANS POSSESSED TECHNOLOGIES FAR ADVANCED OF WHAT WE BELIEVE THEM TO BE CAPABLE OF.I LOVE THAT IF YOU GET NOTHING ELSE FROM THIS BOOK,IT IS VERY THOUGHT PROVOKING AND ALLOWS YOU TO EXAMINE ON YOUR OWN,THE AGE OLD QUESTIONS OF, ARE WE ALONE?
:-) Books like it might also be a prime example of why one of these Goodreads friends observes that he sometimes has trouble deciding whether to classify a book as "nonfiction" or fiction; the author certainly wants readers to view it as nonfiction, but a factual basis isn't one of its attributes.Von Daniken's thesis (which sold a surprising number of books, and has made him a prosperous man) is that, from the Old Stone Age down into the ancient Iron Age, Earth was repeatedly visited, on all parts of the globe, by advanced aliens who are responsible for all of mankind's religions, and for virtually all the architectural and scientific achievements of the ancient world.
Perhaps the only good thing that has come up from this book is science fiction inspired by it. Horrible distortion of history and misinterpretation of events. A total waste of time.
Chariots of the Gods?
(1969) which, based on a mass of often suspect and internally inconsistent data argues that the Earth was visited by at least one Alien spacefaring race before and at the dawn of historical time; thus, for example, the Great Pyramid and the Easter Island statues (images of the visiting aliens) were quarried with lasers and lifted into place by helicopters.
Scientific howlers abound and logical flaws proliferate yet the book sold in their millions and sparked off a host of imitators, some of which like Mystery of the Ancients (1974) by Craig and Eric Umland claiming that the Maya are the descendants of stranded explorers from beyond the solar system are so entrancingly funny that they may in fact be spoofs.
One reason I love the ancient astronaut theory is because it brings light to all the thing archaeology conveniently "overlooks".
Which is part of the reason I know look at my once favorite field of study with a bit of disdain.
Main stream scientists don't seem to like facing the possibility of things they themselves consider impossible, where as this theory doesn't like to discredit anything truly probable.
Daniken had some very interesting theories that make a lot of sense of you look at it from an open mind.
Some of them of course are little out there but at least it opens you up to think on such grand scales.
از متن کتاب: «اصل مثبت دربارهی کسی که شک میکند این است که او همهی امکانات را ممکن فرض میکند.»اصلا باهاش حال نکردم و خیلی سرسری مطالعه کردم.
میخواستم 2 ستاره بدهم ولی 1 ستاره هم به این دلیل اضافه کردم که: نگاهی نو و جدید داشت به موضوعی که حتی فکرش رو هم نمیکنیم.
فارغ از صحت یا عدم صحت محتوای کتاب، این نوع نگاه ارزشمند بود.یک قسمت دیگر از کتاب که خوشم اومد: «در گذشته فردی که عقیدهی تازهای را عرضه میکرد میبایست خود را برای تمسخر و آزار همکاران و روحانیون آماده نماید، ولی اوضاع میبایستی بهتر شده باش
از متن کتاب: «اصل مثبت درباره‌ی کسی که شک می‌کند این است که او همه‌ی امکانات را ممکن فرض می‌کند.»اصلا باهاش حال نکردم و خیلی سرسری مطالعه کردم.
فارغ از صحت یا عدم صحت محتوای کتاب، این نوع نگاه ارزشمند بود.یک قسمت دیگر از کتاب که خوشم اومد: «در گذشته فردی که عقیده‌ی تازه‌ای را عرضه می‌کرد می‌بایست خود را برای تمسخر و آزار همکاران و روحانیون آماده نماید، ولی اوضاع می‌بایستی بهتر شده باشد.
دیگر کسی را به چهار میخ نمی‌کشند و بی سبب آتش نمی‌زنند، ولی مشکل اینجاست که روشهای زمان ما آنقدرها هم جالب نیستند و کمتر از سابق نیز مسدودکننده پیشرفت نمی‌باشند.
I am sure most people will pan this book - unsubstantiated, inaccurate, baseless, ridiculous, blah, blah, blah.
The fact of the matter is that the author does not prove that aliens visited Earth at any time in our past, nor does he claim to have proof of it - ever.
What I do know is that any civilization advanced enough to visit us would be so far beyond us at this point that it is perfectly feasible that they would be able to do so undetected (as we already have stealth technologies that evade our own detection to a large degree and we are centuries, if not millenia from deep space travel).
The author would present intriguing mysteries from the historic record and archeological sites, then lead the reader to question it (often making extreme assumptions), then drop a bunch of questions.
The author raises some important and intriguing questions, but I can't recommend that readers pay for a book of questions.If you're interested in this topic, you can skip this book and read up on it in more recent books and by viewing the Ancient Aliens series on the H2 and/or Netflix.
When I was young I was convinced that aliens had visited us on many occasions. I have changed the way I think about the facts now, but this book was one of the first books I ever read that made me consider an alternate narrative to mainstream thought...and for that it will always have a special place on my 'life bookshelf.'
Very fake and very creative.
A passion that sees the hand of extra terrestrial intellect behind everything on our planet is pretty much how I would sum up the entire book.One thing must be said of von Däniken that he exhorts his readers to believe in what he tells them.
The finest review I could think of for this book was by a man whose intellect I immensely admire.
I know of no recent books so riddled with logical and factual errors as the works of von Däniken.
I remember reading this in high school and thinking it was soooo cool.
I have to say he raised some interesting points, but my main interest was that it is often too difficult for people to believe that ancient cultures were very sophisticated and able to create things from their imaginations in much the same way we do.
It's easier to believe something ridiculous like alien visitation before the more likely explanation of regular Earth people having the ability to puzzle things out for themselves.
Whether or not you believe in the alien influence concept, the works are amazing examples of ancient craftsmanship and imagination.
يادم ميآيد " اريك فون دنيكن " زماني در ايران بسيار هوادار و خواننده داشت. فون دنيكن با تئوريهاي تخيلي و جذاب خود بر اين اعتقاد بود كه اهرام مصر را انسانها با دانش و امكانات محدود آن زمان نشاختهاند بلكه موجوداتي ديگر با دانشي بيشتر از سيارات ديگر پا بهزمين گذاشتند و اين بناها را ساختند. تب آثار اين نويسنده فرو كش كرد
يادم مي‌آيد " اريك فون دنيكن " زماني در ايران بسيار هوادار و خواننده داشت. فون دنيكن با تئوري‌هاي تخيلي و جذاب خود بر اين اعتقاد بود كه اهرام مصر را انسان‌ها با دانش و امكانات محدود آن زمان نشاخته‌اند بلكه موجوداتي ديگر با دانشي بيشتر از سيارات ديگر پا بهزمين گذاشتند و اين بناها را ساختند. تب آثار اين نويسنده فرو كش كرد
This book is a good introduction for those who know little to nothing about Ancient Alien Studies.Von Daniken, in Chariots of the Gods, has looked across broad geographic regions, evidences, and time periods to assemble a host of information that contradicts the mainstream interpretation that ancient civilizations were less advanced than our own.
He uses the breadth of citations and the assumption of reported events to propose the theory that these ancient Gods were, in fact, aliens who had brought advanced teaching to ancient peoples and had used their superior technologies to create the ruins that are still visible today.Whether you agree with Von Daniken or not, the information he cites is fascinatingly out of place with conventional histories.
when i was a teenager i dreamt to be like Daniken. growing up and traveling for the last 40 years extensively and still with looking for the interesting and bizarre i find him more amusing that a real research. but still the fun is there
