https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/673799.The_Scent_of_Water
So she moves to the town of Appleshaw, in the Chilterns area of southeast England, not far from London.Chilterns village Mary's life in her new village home soon becomes interwoven with many of her neighbors.
The "scent of water" (from verses 7-9 in chapter 14 of the Book of Job) is a recurring theme, symbolic of spiritual renewal, and personal courage and integrity are key, though they show up in different ways in different characters.She realized with deep respect that this woman had always done what she had to do and faced what she had to face.
With her last breaths the dying woman "...said something about sailing out on living water," and with her passing the room is full of "the quietness of the deep country and the light of a marvelous sunset...a tide of gold."There are two Mary Lindsays in this gentle yet powerful story: the woman whose death we witness in the opening pages and a second Mary Lindsay, her cousin, a thoroughly competent Londoner who capped a successful academic career with service in the war years and then an executive post at the Admiralty.
At the center of the story are the intersecting lives of Mary Lindsay and her Cousin Mary whose long struggle for faith, purpose and sanity are gradually told in diaries left along with the house.
I can’t remember where I found her again, but I’m sure it’s either a book blogger or a LibraryThing member I should be thanking.The library offered a range of titles – not on the shelves but tucked away in the fiction reserve – and ‘The Scent of Water’ caught my eye.It tells the story of Mary Lambert, a middle-aged teacher, who quite unexpectedly inherited a country house from a distant cousin.Though the two had shared a name they met only once.
I liked this book for several reasons.
Whenever I am conscious of this more than ourselves I remember the old man in the garden at home, looking at the butterflies in the buddleia tree, and how the butterflies seemed to shine on his face, or something in him shone on the butterflies, I didn’t know which.
p. 213I also want to remember and ponder the three prayers that the funny little man (who looked at the butterflies) described to Mary (the writer of the diary).
One of the characters, a troubled business man remembers hanging over the edge of the well and breathing in the cool scent of the water when he was a child: “The scent of water.
I love this author, and this book was a lovely re-read.
The central figures, the village life, the children, it all filled my heart and was a blessing each day that I read it.
I think it is a book that speaks more deeply and eloquently to me in age than it did in youth.
Very highly recommended, especially for those who can appreciate books from the earlier 20th century.
Her children's book, The Little White Horse, was a favorite of mine and my best friend, and, it turns out, J.K. Rowling.
Re-read.
I love this book with my whole heart.
Still, it's one of my all-time favorites.The writing is stellar, the characters are compelling, the setting (a small English village) is my dream home.
Even the religion is tolerable as it's not the Christianity with which I'm familiar, rather it's a luminous love that transforms everything into a distillation of joy.
The story unfolds as Mary Lindsay is left a cottage by her aunt, moves to the cottage and reads her aunt's diaries while becoming part and parcel of the village.
There's redemption and love infusing every paragraph.
Still, the proofreader in me spotted areas that needed finessing, and at times I caught myself thinking, “Would someone really say that?” One or two characters didn’t feel fleshed out.
(Which turned out to be the case—Mrs. Baker surfaced only one other time, and her interactions with Mary remained on a polite housekeeper/employer level.) And it bothered me that (view spoiler)[ when Mary first realized she was falling in love with a married man, she didn’t seem to worry about—or even think about—the fact that he was married; she thought only about how shocking it was that she could fall in love at her age.
Though the root thereof wax old in the earth, and the stock thereof die in the ground; yet through the scent of water it will bud, and bring forth boughs like a plant." The theme of obedience is most typified in Bess, the guide dog who "trembled to [her master's] will as a compass needle to the north." "Behold, as the eyes of servants look to the hand of their masters, As the eyes of a maid to the hand of her mistress, So our eyes look to the Lord our God, Until He has mercy on us."There's a character named Valerie who is self-centered and discontented.
It’s about the Scent of Water, which comes from a passage in Job: "For there is hope of a tree, if it be cut down, that it will sprout again, and that the tender branch thereof will not cease.
Though the root thereof wax old in the earth, and the stock thereof die in the ground; yet through the scent of water it will bud, and bring forth boughs like a plant."And that alone tells you more of what the book is about than I could.Among the many lovely, thoughtful passages, this one stood out to me.
Mary quickly became intertwined with the lives of the people in the small village and because of her perceptive nature was able to glean wisdom even from the most broken among them.
Having lost the love of her life in the war, Mary herself had experienced brokenness and had never really resolved the issues.
Not only did she open her heart to them, but she gleaned wisdom from each encounter.Each of the characters--- the blind writer, the maladjusted child, the odd spinster---had been thwarted from the usual channels of love.
Like water cutting new channels, that love found other avenues of release that were beautiful to behold.
A dear friend gave me two of Elizabeth Goudges book, this one and The Bird in the Tree. That was earlier this year and I just didn't get around to reading them. What a fool am I. This book was so wonderful. I was enveloped in the cottage in the country and all of the delightful characters. I cannot wait to read more from her.
Beautiful, poetic, deeply spiritual. This seemingly simple old-fashioned story is brimming with insight and wisdom, and numerous wonderful soul-touching quotes. Easily the most moving, profound book of fiction I have ever read. This is one to cherish and revisit. A true masterpiece."What is the scent of water?""Renewal. The goodness of God coming down like dew."
G. Wodehouse and Dorothy Sayers to Angela Thirkell—Goudge is a must-read.The Scent of Water is a quiet novel, but it is full of upheaval and disruption and is ultimately very wise.
Mary Lindsay, an unmarried woman of fifty, unexpectedly inherits a house in a small rural village and decides to go live there.
She imagines quiet and solitude and gets neither, as she is swiftly drawn into the lives of many of the villagers.
But the novel is about more than just the people: the place itself—her house and the neighborhood—is every bit as important a character.The novel, despite its easy-reading surfaces, is profoundly moral without moralizing.
It sounded to me like a poem, yet the story lines were interesting and engaging, the characters brilliantly alive. Plenty of lovely motifs and lasting wisdom. My favorite story line presented Cousin Mary's diary: her realizations and detailed observations.The characters were intimately linked even if they had not known one another well. The sense of connectedness and hope I found in this novel made it memorable and wise. I also enjoyed how The Laurels home was a character in itself, nurtured and loved.My only discomfort was with the relationship between Mary (current Mary) and Paul.
Just finished re-reading this book. Elizabeth Goudge is a special kind of writer--a beloved author. There's no one else quite like her. I needed a nurturing story, which is why I chose Goudge. This book is lovely. Her stories are always about God, people, and place, and the powerful interplay of all three.
But as I have said before, her books like “The White Witch”, “The Rosemary Tree”, and this one, are a treat to read and I am never bored re-reading them!I chose it actually because I remembered the way the author had written about snow and country Christmases of long ago.“Next day the snow began to fall, large slow flakes drifting on a light wind.
I read Child from the Sea by Elizabeth Goudge a long time ago and fell in love with her style of writing and depth of characters.
Her books were out of print and I ordered most of them, which are back in print, from Amazon.The Scent of Water brought me back to the days of the brilliant, thought-provoking writing from the past.
(Not that the "present" writing is less brilliant and thought-provoking, but there are styles of classics that I have missed in my recent reading).
Elizabeth Goudge writes about people, old and young, who live in a small village and have personal issues that they seem unable to resolve.
The Scent of Waterby Elizabeth GoudgeWhen I was younger I really didn’t like this book.
I liked almost every other Elizabeth Goudge book out there.
Eventually I thought, well I should really read it to make sure I don’t like it before I sell it.
“Most of us tend to belittle all suffering except our own…I think it’s fear.
her thoughts of God had a homeliness that at time seemed shocking, in spite of their power, which could rescue her from terror or evil with an ease that astonished her.”“If one’s intellectual equipment was not great, one’s spiritual experience not deep, the result of doing one’s damned best could only seem very lightweight in comparison with the effort involved.
I think I've discovered a new favorite author, right up there with Jane Austen, Elizabeth Gaskell, L.M. Montgomery, and Louisa May Alcott.
Her writing is poetic and she uncovers insights that make you think about spiritual and other truths in a new way.
In this book, she writes from many characters' perspectives, and they are all such fascinating and well-drawn people that it never seemed like I heard from them enough.
I am a sucker for descriptions, of scenery, houses, people, objects ...
I want to write more or less like Elizabeth Goudge when I grow u.
Calming and lovely is how I would describe The Scent of Water by Elizabeth Goudge.
I loved its allusions to the healing waters of baptism through “the scent of water” and how a once sacred space transforms and effects people.
It was subtle and realistic rather than an in-your-face Christian book.
And no, no one changes that much.
Christ takes us as we are and works gently, and without compunction, to change us into His likeness.
When I closed the pages of the book I felt that the work in these people’s lives was not over.
Given to me by a dear friend who said, "it's my favorite of her books, I think you'll enjoy." I did very much. A quiet story, and as my lovely friend Deb said, it's not action packed, just covers Mary Lindsay settling into the house she inherited from her elderly cousin, and learning to know those around her in the village. Faith, love, and beauty were woven into the story in surprising and beautiful ways. Just delightful.
My all time favorite book - with Jane Austen, I have read Elizabeth Goudge more times than I can count. Ms. Goudge explores the deeper meanings of faith, love and duty. Her characters and descriptions will enrich your life.I've just read it again (March 2012) - loved it as much as the first time I read it.
One of my favorite writers, Elizabeth Goudge has a very spiritual nature but can have an acerbic view of human nature and foibles. Lots of people have to face the truth about themselves in this story but it is told lovingly and I have reread this with pleasure.She also writes quite well for children, The Little White Horse, and Linnets and Valerians
This is a book I have reread several times and quoted from countless times. I love the layers of history and experience and the timeless truths it contains. I do not buy or keep books unless I know I will want to read them again. I got a dated paperback of this on one of my trips to England and treasure it.
This book is beautiful, a truly gentle, wistful and poetic and healing story filled with moments of joy and sadness, that will leave its sweet fragrance, after you turn the last page, and read the last words.I am so glad I found Goudge. She's a wonderful author!
One of the best books I've ever read. I borrowed this book from the library but will purchase my own copy, as well as read her other works. Ms. Goudge has a lyrical quality to her writing. I got lost in the pages and when I finished, I was changed for the better.
Her other books for adults (which can be read by young adults too), have become quite popular among circles of readers and friends around me.
I liked the way she portrays children, and I enjoyed her mentions of Don Quijote in regards to friendship, and as one of the favorite books of one of her characters.When Kim suggested (or was I?), to read The Scent of Water, it felt as a good reading title.I started reading it during Harvey, but I couldn't focus much on reading, and the book starts a bit slow.
3.5 stars for this gentle meditation on faith disguised as a cozy village story.Goudge's writing is so soothing and gracious that this reader was gently carried along as the story unfolded.I really liked our modern Mary--a London woman of fifty or so, who abandons her prestigious job to live in the small village house left to her by a distant cousin.
I liked Cousin Mary, whom we meet through flashbacks and diary entries.
The villagers are a mixed lot--we meet most of them as they interact with Mary.
The author was really good at capturing the essence of each in small vignettes as they went about their daily lives.
The religious slant irked me particularly when Cousin Mary’s dreams revolved around her being a sinner and her thoughts on the necessity of obedience, which was perhaps where it became obvious that the novel is from 1963.Elizabeth Goudge is apparently mostly known as an author of children’s books and romance novels (I write apparently because she isn’t really know at all in Denmark), but she writes sentences and sentiments here and there which could have come from Virginia Woolf, only clad in slightly different garments but which at core are similar, e.g. about women finding their roles in society, human loneliness, human relationships in general, the love of a garden, the love of books.
I first read one of her books - The Little White Horse - when I was a child and fell in love with her style and beautiful prose.
It may seem a little dated to younger readers, but for anyone in need of a gentle, yet thought-provoking read, this book would be ideal.
