https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60521.Pigs_Have_Wings
Pigs Have Wings has the same plot elements as the other Blandings Castle books: 1) a pig napping2) a broken engagement3) an imposter at the castleHere's how it went down:Sir Gregory Parsloe brings in a ringer for the Fat Pig contest in an effort to keep the Empress of Blandings from three-peating.
Not only that, Parsloe's niece is the pig keeper at Blandings Castle and his fiancee is staying at Blandings.
Through in subplots about three broken engagements and a detective at Blandings and you have a classic Wodehouse romp.
That's about the highest praise a Wodehouse book can get.
The first Wodehouse book I ever read. I was in love from page 1, and subsequently read almost all of the eighty-odd books he ever wrote. Full of absurd, wildly wonderful plots, quirky characters, and wit so dry you could burn your fingers on it. P.G.'s books always have a happy ending, so be prepared to walk with a lighter step when you're done.
Reading Wodehouse is pure bliss.
In his own words “I believe there are two ways of writing novels.
It's probably because you were born that way." "For a humorous novel you've got to have a scenario, and you've got to test it so that you know where the comedy comes in, where the situations come in … splitting it up into scenes (you can make a scene of almost anything) and have as little stuff in between as possible."Bandings castle and its characters is one the best of his creations.
As in any fairy tale, they all lived happily ever after. Mostly.
This book is so much fun, if you enjoy British humour.
We all make mistakes."Here's another one, describing a hung-over gentleman who is being shouted at by another man:"The next moment, it seemed to George Cyril Wellbeloved that the end of the world had come and Judgment Day set in with unusual severity.
Actually, it was his employer shouting his name, but that was the illusion it created."'Sir?' he whispered feebly, clutching his temples, through which some practical joker was driving white-hot spikes."It's subtleties like this that make Wodehouse so much fun to read.
As though Judgment Day could have a "usual" severity!I can't resist adding one more:"Good luck to your matrimonial venture.
"No," said Lady Constance, after a moment's thought.
I take the view that he was led astray by Galahad.
Galahad!
I remember, when we were children," said Lady Constance wistfully, "seeing Galahad fall into that deep pond in the kitchen garden.
And just as he was sinking for the last time, one of the gardeners came and pulled him out," she added, speaking with a sort of wild regret.
It was plain that she was in agreement with the poet that of all sad words of tongue or pen the saddest are these: 'It might have been.' She paused for a moment, brooding on the folly of that chuckle-headed gardener.
4 stars for the book but I didn't really care for Jeremy Sinden's narration. In particular, his voices for Lord Emsworth and his sister Connie grated on me.
4½ stars for the book but I didn't really care for Jeremy Sinden's narration. In particular, his voices for Lord Emsworth and his sister Connie grated on me.
Wodehouse is ALWAYS funny.
The very idea of ten or more novels centered around the love of a dotty old earl for his prize pig sets one's mind areel!P.G. Wodehouse is probably one of the funniest writers who have ever lived -- only S.J. Perelman can compare with him -- and some of his inventions still stick in my mind after thirty years of uproarious reading, such as Jeeves's infamous hangover cure, Buck-U-Uppo.Pigs Have Wings is one of the more intricately plotted of Wodehouse's comic masterpieces, with wonderful scenes such as the following:He paused, and said "Er."There was another longish silence."The moon," said Lord Emsworth, indicating it."Yes," said Maudie."Bright," said Lord Emsworth, paying it a well deserved tribute."Yes," said Maudie."Very bright," said Lord Emsworth.

3.5 stars. A welcome change it was from my previous deep reads. Wodehouse is not doubt the man that God poured every bit of good humour that ever existed. This book was absurdly funny. Ripples of laughter in many places but I had the occasional Mad Hatter laughter that brought tears to my eyes.. I was thankful that the passerby forgave me when they took a good look at the cover and smiled with approval.
This book was so, so funny! The rivalry between the main characters was so hilarious. I loved meeting the younger brother Galahad. He had been mentioned, but I hadn't read a book he was in before. He turned into my favorite character. Wodehouse has amazing comedic timing and reading this did make me giggle or chuckle, in public, several times.
If I've learnt anything from this, it is not to mess with Hon. Galahad Threepwood in any form. Worst of all would be by feeding his dog Towser six pounds of steak and onions before a rat contest.My first Wodehouse story. Twisted plotline, typical characters and delightful humour.
The Blandings Castle series, I feel, is not as humorous as other P.G. Wodehouse novels, but there were some laugh out loud moments! You'll have to read it yourself in order to understand the title :)
Star-crossed lovers, disgruntled butlers, cash-strapped secretaries, annoyed sisters, helpful brothers and stolen pigs are thrown together into another sweet English trifle of a story, where nothing terrible that occurs cannot be solved by the cerebral machinations of Galahad Threepwood. The perfect book with which to enjoy a lazy weekend afternoon. :-)
The same old story of lovesick young people and pigs, with a twist!
Sir Gregory Parsloe has imported a new pig for the Shropshire Agricultural Show.
Galahad goes a little more crazy than usual with the pig-conspiracy theories, but he is such a dear.
His friend Gloria was once engaged to Penny's new suitor, but Gloria is now engaged to Sir Gregory Parsloe!
Finally, the two pigs are the primary characters.
This story can be read as a stand-alone though it references characters and situations from past books.

Two gentlemen with big manors face off in a legendary fat pig growing contest, and right in the middle is the brother of one of the men, Gally Threepwood.
Of course, there’s some confusion with mis-matched lovers, a farce involving an uptight butler and stolen pigs, and an awful lot of bally great language.
Of course, I should probably read more before I pronounce judgment, but there it is.- Vocab: pre-phylloxera – wine from before the great French wine blight.
The ONLY thing better than a Wodehouse bookis a trillion American Dollars in your bank account.
And yet for all the Jeeves fans, I find Lord Emsworth and his prize pig the "Empress of Blandings" to be the true raillery of his works.
It is classic Wodehouse- Pig-napping, rescuing, the amazingly quaint Emsworth and the BAT Constance Keeble (Sisters are a mistake!).
H makes you feel truly positive and as he himself would put it- "He has so much chutzpah , it would make every American writer, roll in his/her GRAVE- TWICE!!!"My fourth read of Pigs have Wings.
There are hijinks involving diet pills, two butlers, a sober pigman, and pig-pinching.
There are subplots involving three romances and it all gets very complicated.
I confess that while I adore Wodehouse, I found this book hard to follow and the wit seemed strained when read very slowly over the course of an entire month and while feeling exhausted.Highlights for me were all the tongue-in-cheek comments about penniless but idealistic writers and the line "I could hear the milk of human kindness sloshing about inside him".
(NB: Wodehouse originated this line in a Jeeves story, but it's been repeatedly nicked by others.)
This is another hilarious story set at Blandings Castle with the usual suspects - the Hon. Galahad Threepwood, his dragon of a sister, Lady Constance, and his brother Lord Emsworth.
The real story centers around the drama of the Fat Pig Contest - can Lord Emsworth's beloved sow The Empress of Blandings pull off an unprecedented three wins a row this year?
And since this is Wodehouse, we have two or three sets of love affairs to straighten out before the end.If you're familiar with Jeeves and Wooster, you'll take right to this book.
Забавная безделуха.Что делать высокородным лордам если они освобождены от ежедневных забот? Крутить интриги и лелеять свое хобби :)На фоне беспримерно жестокой войны за победу на конкурсе "Самая жирная свинка графства" происходит множество любовных приключений между старыми, молодыми, воспоминаниями и настоящим. В книге многоплановое повествование, но не мешает, автору удалось все разложить по полочкам.Очень атмосферное, наполненное английским юмором чтение.
I love Wodehouse, and for whatever reason, this just didn't take off with me like nearly every other one of his books has. A winner for diehards, not my first recommendation for a Wodehouse virgin.
First P. G. Woodhouse book that I read, and this one is a delight. Not laugh-out-loud comedy, but a lot of smiling
Pigs, sisters, brothers, guests, butlers, and secretaries. Lord Emworth will never have any peace! Another too soon over magic carpet ride through P.G. Wodehouses world.
This is a great light fun read.
This is like that in that each person in the plot sees the world from a different point of view and does not know key facts that only the reader has seen.
The reader knows that this type of book always has a happy ending, but you wonder how it can possibly untangle all the confused and conflicting situations.
You will be chuckling all the while you read this one.Yes, it does seem that pigs have wings in this book or at least they get around as if they did.
(Gloria is engaged to Sir Gregory Parsloe Parsloe) Gloria Salt to Jerry : '...
Greg, I said, ...
a girl who marries a man who looks like you is going to have an uneasy feeling that she's committing bigamy.' Jerry : 'He is stout, this Parsloe?'Gloria : 'He certainly gets his pennyworth out of a weighing machine.'Page after page, Wodehouse gives you shots of this stuff.
With the Fat Pigs show of the Shropshire Agricultural Show round the corner, tensions are high with pigs getting stolen and exchanged, and engagements being made, broken and remembered.
It's a complete Blandings story with all the usual favourites.
My first entry into Wodehouse was a fantastic one. I did have my suspicions if this book would keep me interested the whole time, and it completely blew me away. The humor is so unique and refined that it made me wish that natural dialogue was filled with as many witty retorts. This book will leave you on the ground rolling, all the while intrigued as to what will happen next. It has a sense of suspense often found in Oscar Wilde's great dramas and comedies. I cannot recommend this book enough!
An English farce in the manner of "The Importance of being Earnest". Dotty lords and palatial estates and regal butlers and dewy-eyed ingenues etc. The language, locution and mannerisms are all enjoyable. Like watching the anthill of upper crust English society with a magnifying glass. Not sure when this took place...before WWI? But there is no mention of anything ugly happening in the world. I am thinking I want to read Aldous Huxley's "Antic Hay" next.
Calling Wodehouse's writing formulaic is like kicking in an open door, but if a man hasa golden recipe he'd be stupid not to use it. Wodehouse books follow the same pattern over and over again but in such a good way that you become hooked for life. He's a virtuoso with words.I'm pretty sure he was a source of inspiration for Pratchett.Oh, by the way... The book is about fat pigs
