https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9496240-the-hangman-s-daughter
It was even crowed about to the press regarding the success level of such "enhanced interrogation techniques" by the Vice President of the United States.“You give me a water board, Dick Cheney and one hour, and I'll have him confess to the Sharon Tate murders."(Larry King Live, May 11, 2009)” ― Jesse VenturaJakob has one ally, a young doctor named Simon Fronwieser who started spending a lot of time at the Kuisl household when he found that the hangman had books that were not only expensive, but in some cases had been banned from circulation.
“pssst, I know you're not a witch, so imma torture you just a little bit, to buy some time.
The vast majority of bestsellers are powdered milk, Coors Lite, Lipton – stories that could-have-been.
It's estimated that there were as many as 20,000 leper houses spread throughout Europe by the late 12th century (thank you public library librarian.) Unfortunately for the historicity of this novel, which suggests that every city has its own leper house, the events are occurring in the mid 17th century, by which time leprosy was mostly a non-starter, with only a few isolated cases/isolated sanatoriums which housed the relatively few sufferers.
But witch burning in Europe reached a peak in the mid- 16th century, which makes it time-correct for the setting of this novel.
Yes the main character is a hangman, Jakob Kuisl, and yes, he's got a daughter, but this is not her story.
After reading The Last Valley, I always figured that Germany was a wasteland after The Thirty Years War. There’s no doubt that the Sack of Magdeburg in 1630 was a bloody slaughter.
So this is another horrible event that Jakob Kusil witnesses, and it’s left him a hard and grizzled man.
There are the good guys (Jakob and his buddies) who are trying to solve the mystery.
I did find the history surrounding the Kusil family intriguing, but I don’t think it made up for the slow read and the annoying townspeople.
It gives us a snapshot into the life of medieval Germans.
Although, the translator uses some rather modern language here and there in his translation...it was originally written in German.
In fact the authors family is the actual family of our hangman in the title.
This hangman is a 5th generation executioner, a medicine man, and a tough guy.
When someone starts slaughtering children of the village, one by one, she is quickly suspected, thrown in jail and tortured to confess....by our hangman, who is also trying to find the true culprit before he has to burn her at the stake.
Basically I found this to be a very good genre crime novel set in 17th century Bavaria.
The pages fly swiftly, the mystery is engrossing, and the historical setting is interesting.
If you're looking for a morally uncomplicated historical mystery, this is a great choice.
At the time I picked this up, I was perhaps in the mood for something more morally and aesthetically challenging--something with complex characters and striking prose.
This book doesn't really deliver those kinds of goods.
The Hangman's daughter is wonderful, but a very minor character.
I learned after the fact that it's a translation (poorly done) and based on the author's family which explains his fawning view of the hangman.
I almost stopped reading when one character, a poor old woman in a tiny village pulled down a paper calendar with a picture of a saint for this month.
How does a little town have so many bailiffs?
In the end, I feel bad for the readers hooked into this thinking it's great historical fiction when there is so many better novels out there.
The stigma of being around a Hangman or his family prevents Magdalena from men because they marry within the profession, and the boys of the family grow up to take over from their fathers.Simon breaks that & spends time with Magdalena, Jakob with Simon & Magdalena's help try to solve the mystery of the missing & murdered children.Well written & informative - with great character development.I started telling my husband about the book - 7 chapters in, he was interested, so I started to read a couple of chapters to him.
This was an excellent historical thriller. Set in Germany in the 1600's, the story involves a hangman and his family. When a midwife is accused of witchcraft, the hangman tries to solve the mystery of who is killing young orphaned children, all bearing a strange symbol on their bodies.The politics and superstitions of that time seemed authentic. The mystery is impossible to guess and the suspense builds until you are on the edge of your seat. The book was translated from German to English. Very unique. Overall an A +
The Hangman's Daughter (The Hangman's Daughter #1) by Oliver Pötzsch, Lee Chadeayne (Translator) is a very interesting book. I listened to the audio version and the narrator was perfect for this. The world building was wonderful, felt like I was back in time and living in this world. The characters were well developed. The book has suspense, mystery, superstition, murder, and more. I did enjoy this unusual book.
I broke my own rule about finishing a book if I have read 50 pages of it. I was really bored by this book and saw over 200+ pages to go and had to quit. I really can't read this anymore. Maybe it's the translation. I have no idea. I know that this book has been an absolute chore for me to read for the last 100 pages at least and I am giving up.
I chose this book because of its being set in Bavaria (a part of Germany I have visited and really like), because of its rather original concept (a hangman as detective), and because of the many glowing reviews it has received.
The description of "Jakob Kuisl clench[ing] his fist around a rock so hard that the edges cut into his flesh(299)" is followed very closely by further clarification should the reader have missed the point: "He had clenched the rock so hard that its edges had dug into his flesh like knives (301)."The one positive aspect of the book is the information it provides about life in seventeenth-century Germany.
I loved this book. I thought the story of the handman's history was interesting. And the mystery of the killer kept me reading. I was surprised to find out, at the end of the book, the book is based on historical facts for the most part; as well as it being about his family history. We all want to know who our ancestors are; but to find out you can from a long line of hangman would be so shocking.
Odličan povijesni roman s glavnim likovima koje još i nismo susretali: gradski krvnik i njegova kći. Da stvar bude još bolje, radi se o precima samog autora!
Srednji vijek,triler,vještice,krvnik...Odlična priča i veselim se nastavcima.
It just took a bit of world building because you have a whole village to get set up in, another time, another culture, well, just like any other new place.
It was like I was transported back into time and into the narrative of this village.
The story involved much mystery, suspense, history, and many unique and quite interesting characters.
Just reading about the every day life of the man in this book really gave quite an interesting point of view.
I was so hoping the entire time as I read along that the mystery would be put together and that all pieces would fit..
There's been a lot of noise lately about Amazon bypassing major commercial publishers and publishing books directly themselves.
I have no idea why it's called THE HANGMAN'S DAUGHTER, cause she doesn't play much of a role in the book.
I have no idea why the translator of this book was chosen for the job, since he not only has zero understanding of pace but has no feel at all for the time period the book is set in -- 1659.
I had a hard time keeping the lesser characters in the book straight, and that was undoubtedly due to my own inability to remember foreign names.
When I made it to the last quarter of the book, I could not put it down, it was exciting and action packed.
I was completely unable to predict how the book would end, which is a trademark of a good read in my mind.
I want to give this book 3.5 stars, but since I have an affinity for everything witches, I have decided to bump it up to 4 stars for the rating.
My #10 Favorite read of 2013  A superb 4.5 Stars An excellent historical fiction mystery.
Our two major players are the intelligent and kind-hearted town hangman/torturer/street cleaner and a young, questioning Doctor with an inquisitive mind.I am a bit of a Historical Fiction snob.
The characters are delightfully nuanced and entertaining and the villains are equally interesting and colorful.As a historical fiction novel, it is about a 4 of 5.
While she was certainly a character, it was a minor role.
That said, she was as entertaining as the rest.I added this book to my To-Read pile quite some time ago when I heard the buzz for the book.
Despite being titled The Hangman's Daughter … this book isn't actually about the hangman's daughter.
The actual main characters are Magdalena's father (the hangman), Jacob, and the son of the local medicus, Simon (who also happens to have a crush on Magdalena and vice versa).Prepare to be disturbed!!!
Jacob's memories of the past and the details of his occupation are very brutal.
There are details of executions, war memories, and torture scenes which are all the more horrifying because they are historically accurate.Choosing the hangman as one of the main POVs and have him be a likeable character is quite unique and very interesting.
Jakob se, zajedno sa svojom prelijepom kćerkom Magdalenom i njenim udvaračem, sinom gradskog medikusa Simonom, nađe u tijesnoj utrci s vremenom kada se pronađe leš još jednog siročeta, dvoje ih misteriozno nestane, a u pitanju je još djece koja su vrijeme provodila kod osumnjičene primalje.Kada u svojim rukama držite knjigu na čijim se koricama autor proziva neokrunjenim kraljem njemačkog povijesnog romana, teško je primiriti očekivanja kako bi se roman mogao doživjeti i objektivno ocijeniti, osobito kad njegova fabula izgleda jako poznato.Krvnikova kći neodoljivo podsjeća na opus Marije Jurić Zagorke i njezin ciklus Grička vještica.
Interesting story. I do agree with what others have said, that this book could have been shorter. There really was some stuff that didnt have to be in it to enjoy it. But all in all this was an good book about whether or not witchcraft took place in their town when dead bodies with weird marks start showing up.
This story takes place in Bavaria in 1659.
It is not really that much about the hangman's daughter, than it is about the hangman and the young physician in the town.
There is a lot about torture and death that is a little uncomfortable to read about.
He kind of marginalizes the daughter, actually.
It is more of a 'man's' book.
However, he does have her escape from her kidnappers on her own rather than having her father or her boyfriend rescue her.
Also, I got the distinct feeling that her boyfriend puts learning and books first and her second.
"Germany, 1660: When a dying boy is pulled from the river with a mark crudely tattooed on his shoulder, hangman Jakob Kuisl is called upon to investigate whether witchcraft is at play.
So begins The Hangman's Daughter--the chillingly detailed, fast-paced historical thriller[...]"I think it was set in Germany, somewhere around 1660 (who's counting?), but otherwise, the description for this book is full of lies.
She was a character in it, sure, but not an important one, and if she'd been removed from the story, it would have been just as boring, but wouldn't have suffered any other way.
I knew how important the research was to this author, as I was lucky enough to interview Oliver Potzsch before I started the book (http://ancientandmedievalmayhem.blogs...) and I am glad that I knew that and had experienced his love for his research and his charatcers, because you truly can tell that he will do whatever it takes to build scene and create his world for the reader.The book itself was not a flawless article for me.
But it was not always to be this way and in the second half of the book I feel the translation was not as good, or the author was not writing as well as he had in the beginning.
This was the story about the executioner Jakob Kuisl and his mission to save the midwife Martha from a crime that she did not commit.
They blamed the midwife for being a witch and had her arrested and tortured until she admitted that she committed the crime.
Jakob knew that the midwife was innocent.
Three children dead, a burnt up warehouse, and a destroyed leper house had Jakob and Simon on the run trying to solve the mystery.
Simon is in love with the executioner’s daughter Magdalena.
She chimes in and helps the other two solve this mystery and ends up getting kidnapped herself.
I really liked this, particularly the detailed depiction of life in a Bavarian town in the 1600s just after the Thirty Years' War, but also for the main character, who is the town's hangman, one in a long line of hereditary executioners.
This becomes all the more interesting when you learn in an afterword to the book that the author is himself a descendant of the main character, Jakob Kuisl.
And the story is quite good, a multiple-murder mystery that revolves around wrongful accusations of witchcraft, madness, power, and greed.
I would have given it a higher rating if the action scenes of the story weren't so belabored, so over-described.
One cannot complain at all about lack of description of the venue nor the main characters.
At some point it started to drag for me, maybe because I had figured out the "whodunnit part." Funny thing is "The Hangman" is my favorite character in this novel.
It was very interesting as far as being an historical novel based on the author's ancestors and I really appreciated the author's "A Kind of Postscript." For myself, that added a certain amount of appreciation for this book, and I would go to three and a half stars.
(Blind date with a book challenge)A decent, interesting story but the amount of unnecessary information is unbearable.Also, going into this I expected something completely different so don't let the title and the book description fool you. Magdalena, the Hangman's daughter, is only a minor character. The story revolves around her father, Jakob, and the mystery happening in their city.
I would stay hidden there for an hour or more flipping through the pages of a huge brown tome that held nothing but fairy tales.
The REAL ones - with all the truly frightening and gory bits left in.I would scare myself silly reading those stories until I was caught and forced to go do some chore or another.This is like a PG-rated version of one of those creepy fairy tale stories.
Its witches and devils haunt the pages; hiding in the forest and kidnapping children.
However, it's more of a mystery than a horror tale.
L'aspetto mistery è ben delineato ma il libro non mi è piaciuto e per tale ragione gli ho dato due stellette.Quello che mi ha infastidito è l'inserimento, nel contesto storico del XVII secolo, di personaggi che hanno tratti e caratteristiche del XX secolo (rifiuto della superstizione, approccio medico-scientifico moderno, autonomia di giudizio e disinteresse per la desiderabilità sociale, scarsa religiosità); in contrasto con tali personaggi, ve ne sono altri che invece esprimono tutti i tratti tradizionalmente attribuiti all'oscurantismo medievale. Non credo che leggerò gli altri libri di questa serie.
