https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1154127.Mother_Mason
Mother Mason will introduce you to a delightful, normal ,healthy family whose members love and support each other through all the happy and stressful times of life.
Molly Mason is a worthy role model, a mom who gives herself wholeheartedly to her family (after a brief time- out at the beginning of the book) and learns that happiness comes from being where God wants her.
I loved this book because I could identify with this busy mother who was active in her church and in her children's extracurricular activities.
At the end of the book I hated to say goodbye.
Light-hearted and delightful! What a great snapshot of real but lovely motherhood. A little dated in the fact that Mother Mason is in her early 50's, has false teeth and is introduced as "not quite senile" but that made it all the more fun, as I am near her age. I didn't relate to the teeth, but I absolutely related to almost everything else. A charming find.
Hilarious, real, and heart-warming family doings draw you into this charming story by Bess Streeter Aldrich.
This follows the life and thoughts of house-wife and mother , Molly Mason, and I can't tell you how much I enjoyed this...such sweet, old fashioned values, so encouraging and uplifting.
I made my daughter and husband listen immediately to a quick retelling of many of the quirky happenings of this delightful family.
The daughter's romances, Junior's scrapes, Father's stoic personality and Mother Mason's thoughts , struggles, worries, and triumphs that vaguely mirror many of my own as a mother and wife.
I finally got my hands on a copy of this classic midwestern author who wrote in the 1920's. While her style may not be for everyone, I absolutely loved this book. It made me laugh and smile constantly (and not many books do that.) Aldrich's humor is wonderful and Moms can sure relate to her portrayl of the family. I just found it "charming."
I loved getting to know the whole Mason family -- through the eyes of Molly, a kind, wise, loving matriarch. Special events, family crises, and everyday doings are all infused with gentle wit and sparkling humor. So glad I finally discovered Bess Streeter Aldrich. Very highly recommend!
I've always loved Ms. Aldrich's homey tales of average folks and this is no exception. Consider me charmed.
Very nice collection of short stories about an American family. Reminded me of Katherine Mansfield, L.M. Montgomery, Meet Me In St. Louis, and Penrod.
This book might not be a four star (definitely a three star) but last night I read it after my kids were in bed and I was laughing and cried a little, and just enjoyed the sweetness of the stories. Especially the story of Mabel and how she couldn't handle the housework and toddler anymore. Felt so true to life. I also loved the love story of Marcia. It was a relaxing read and while nothing was ever climatic or exciting, it was perfect for last night, so I'm still giving it four stars.
3.5 An old fashioned family story in a Midwest town in the 1920s. It was a nice travel read, rather uneventful in a way.
A very fun book to read.
Great book. Love reading any of this author's book. Very easy read.
A quick and fun read. Once again, Bess Streeter Alrich has a beautiful focus on the happiness of motherhood and family life. Definitely a great little book!
A really quick read about about the family heirarchy of a mid-western family. Printed in 1916 it may seem a little dated but have families changed all that much.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book from the first chapter to the last. Reminded me of "Cheaper by the Dozen". A very quick read, I got through it in a few evenings and I'm a slow reader.
