https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7663.A_Case_of_Need
Crichton's first published book.
PUblished when he was 26.
You can really see his medical training here, as well as the unavoidable road to his eventual creation of ER.
I'm a sucker for a book that I'll learn something from and this one has footnotes and appendices for further medical background and explanations.
His good friend and doctor, who also happened to study a bit of law before jumping to medicine, decides to investigate, and takes us on a ride through medical clues, family secrets, racial prejudices, and professional protocols.I just can't believe it's the first thing he ever wrote.
I really liked it. Fast paced, interesting and with unexpected turn at the end. Little unrealistic that one doctor can go around and does what John Berry did, and that's the only reason for my 4 stars review.
I can't really describe them for fear of spoilers, but since the story centers around doctors and others performing illegal abortions, I will point out that the three-doctor panel option existed at the time of the book, and is not mentioned.
There are several more, which I'm sure any of you who read the book will spot.Another reason is Hudson/Crichton's annoying practice of using medical jargon and abbreviations and then FOOTNOTING them!
After a long time read a medical thriller.....And enjoyed it....This is the story of a pathologist who fights for.his ObGyn friend who is prosecuted for the alleged abortion leading to uterine trauma, exsanguination and finally, death due to penicillin anaphylaxis shock of a young , rich, well connected female who is surrounded by prominent doctor relatives.
The pathologist is an upright doctor who fights for justice to his friend, Lee, who denies having performed that particular abortion.
Got this free on kindle and can see why. Michael Chriton's first novel is a dated medical thriller dealing with the death of a young girl by an illegal abortion (the book was written in 1969). Thoroughly unlikable narrator, way too many characters and medical jargon, and a convoluted and confusing plot. Obviously his writing improved with age as demonstrated in his later novels like Disclosure and Rising Sun.
Meh- just an ok read. Interesting but not super thrilling.
Michael Crichton has the rare ability to produce stimulating fast-paced fiction mixed with intelligent technical description. The book is a whodunit centered around an abortion that may or may not have been preformed. A good fast paced read.
I really enjoyed this book!!!
Overall a very enjoyable read.
For me it was a fantastic insight into the behaviours and attitudes of the time.
The beginnings of black people emerging into a predominately white society, the role of women, views on coloured immigrants, the climate of the time, the attitudes towards abortion.
A fantastic picture of the time was painted.
The beginning was a little difficult to get into with regards to the many footnotes (some I felt were helpful, but some broke my concentration as they provided added information that could have been explained in the story itself or done away with.
A very fast paced medical thriller.
Till the end I was sure of it being a 5 starrer or at least 4.
The end well, besides being disappointing did not really sync with the rest of the story.
Dr Lee is accused of the death of a seventeen year old girl after an illegal abortion.
She happens to be the daughter of a famous and arrogant cardiothoracic surgeon.
So things are on the move and Dr John the narrator a friend of Dr Lee and a pathologist at the same hospital takes it up.
Very suited to the readathon theme Medical.
ExcitingA doctor is anxious to prove his colleague is innocent of killing a young girl in a botched abortion. As he tries to find who did the abortion many other medical professionals are implicated in this fantastic book with an unsuspected outcome. I recommend this book as a fascinating great read.
This book would be classified under, “Medical Fiction” because it deals with medical surgeons, and doctors trying to unravel the mystery of the murder or suicide of Karen Randall.
John asks Peter were he could find her lost boyfriend and when he found him there is a gang war and he gets severely injured and in that very hospital room is Karen’s roommate with what they think a suicide attempt, he later goes to the crime scene, and there is a missing theme to Karen’s death.
I connected to this book around the middle because, the Randall family was getting very suspicious and I thought it was the step mother that killed Karen.
If you’re a doctor, you’ll probably love this book.
If you’re a determined layman, have a dictionary close at hand while you follow this plot.
But, don’t let that discourage you from enjoying this engrossing medical mystery.The daughter of a prominent (and powerful) Boston physician dies from the after effects of a botched abortion and a pathologist’s closest friend, Dr. Art Lee, is arrested for murder.
Thus begins the quest of who-REALLY-done-it, with Dr. John Berry seeming to be the only one willing to support his friend.

I'm always amazed (and envious) when I see how young some of my favorite authors were when they wrote some books I have loved.
I think Michael was 26 when he wrote this.
It doesn't fit into my head that I could write like this when I was 26.
I don't think I could write like this now.Anyway, a good thriller, good pace, intriguing case, good research and explanations.
To me, it feels like a bit of a trick, because I think the reader could never guess for sure who was the culprit.
Well, it's a pleasure to read Michael Crichton.
I am so happy to have Michael Crichton back in my life, I don't care how long ago this was written. For the time.....it was a very thought provoking book. The end notes were great and also thought provoking. One of my favorite authors, I'm so happy I found his early stuff. You can see where he was always thinking about big issues and how they affected people and government, etc. So happy!
Reread: the first novel by Michael Crichton, who is best known for Jurassic Park the movie (which was way, way inferior to JP the book) and ER, the ur-mother of today's TV show boom.
The victim allegedly named Dr. Art Lee, who is American Chinese, as the abortionist.
The most delightful feature of this medical thriller is the constant underflow of medical information (the novel was actually one of the reasons for Crichton to ditch the medical profession and go into writing full time).
Same about Chinese, actually (and shortly before that, the Irish were in the same position).
The pervading theme was the moral and ethical decisions doctors had to make concerning abortions -- performing them, knowingly not reporting (and, in fact, covering for)reputable doctors who performed them in hospital settings.
I would not want to spoil the story for you if you haven't read it, but it revolves around a doctor who has performed abortions with the knowledge and even some behind the scenes help of other doctors on staff at his hospital.
Dr. Lee is arrested when a patient is brought into the emergency room after a botched abortion and dies.
Her step-mother tells the police that Dr. Lee did the abortion.
I just had a problem with the “believability factor” at times.
The main character is an important pathologist but never seems to work in the lab again once we’re introduced to him; it seems he has all the time in the world available to play the role of detective.
The reveal is sudden and pit-pat, and there are elements of the story line that are never concluded.
It just felt shallow in places, which is unfortunate because several elements (legality issues of abortion; historical trivia of Boston; medical facts and practices, societal roles, etc) were very interesting.
This is was Michael Crichton's first published novel written under a pseudonym. To many characters that I really didn't care about set in the 60's about a doctor trying to prove his friend was innocent of a botched illegal abortion. It try's to raise the ethical and moral questions of the legality of abortion through the eyes of the medical profession. It was a quick and forgettable read that showed that Michael Crichton's writing got better with age and experience. My favorite is still The Prey.
Rosado mp3Description: Written as Jeffery Hudson in 1968. A Case of Need is Michael Crichton's award-winning debut novel, written shortly after he completed his medical internship. Set against the ever-building pressure and pace of a large Boston medical center, the tensions flare-and explode-when a surgical operation tragically ends in death, raising countless questions. Was it accidental malpractice? A violation of the Hippocratic oath? Or cold-blooded murder?
I like medical fiction....medical thrillers really, and this is just okay. It's more like he's SHOWING you a story instead of telling you a story.It's very dated. Written in 1968, when abortion was illegal. The names are dated, the way they dress, some of the settings. Why would a random middle aged guy be allowed to sit in a girl's dorm alone to "question" her without suspicions being raised? Some of line of med and law is blurred. It's an ok read. It passes quickly.
This book was fantastic; a very engaging read, with a compelling premise. As an added bonus, the fact that this book was written in the 60s provides for an interesting cultural 'insight' into that time period. I wouldn't normally seek out medical thrillers, but this book has piqued my interest in the genre.
Not my sort of thing this although I normally love Michael Crichton. The story was too weak. The plot was held up with either complicated medical information of padding that had no real reference to the plot at all.
A Case of Need was Michael Crichton's first novel and it showed. The book was decent, but it lacked the polish of his later work. I was interested, but not engrossed and could have put it down and never missed finishing it. Forgettable.
Awesome Chrichton!!!A cannot put down, read all night until you are done Michael Crichton!!! A racing Medical thriller from the first chapter!!
Una muy buena historia que toca el espinoso tema del aborto, aunque no profundiza en las posturas si evidencia la doble moral de muchos de quienes se proclaman anti aborto.Me gusta la combinación medico / investigador del personaje principal.A very good story that touches the thorny issue of abortion, but does not deepen the positions if it shows the double standards of many who proclaim anti abortion.I like the medical / researcher combination of the main character.
Published in 1968 (the year before I started medical school).
This fast-paced medical mystery tackles abortion when it was illegal five years before Roe v.
Fascinating glimpse into an earlier era of medicine, when doctors (all men) smoked, enjoyed high-income privileged lifestyles while leaving most hospital care to neophyte residents, interns, and medical students; where all physicians took turns staffing the EW ("Emergency Ward") before the specialty of emergency medicine emerged; a world where the N- and O- words were commonplace, and non-whites (even highly competent physicians) were treated with suspicion.
In spite of the anachronisms, the constants in medical pathology, criminal investigation, and social controversy give this engaging mystery a timeless quality.
This was Michael Crichton's debut book, written under a different pen name. It came across as a free Kindle book, so I couldn't resist. A good novel. It is outdated (it was released in 1968) but I found that interesting - the words used, the fact that abortion was illegal, needing pay phones, etc. I enjoyed the story. 3.7 stars from me.
Crichton--even "med school Crichton"--will always be a favorite I feel as if I have just had a tall drink of cool water.
I don't think I appreciated before what a clean prose style Crichton had, and it was used to great effect in this 1968 medical mystery.
Having lived through this time, it is really interesting to read something written during the period; it shows how much our world has changed.
Alert: There are a lot of triggers in this book, from racially-charged language to the "prehistoric" treatment of women to the immediate cause of the murder (the victim had an abortion).
