https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/187058.Around_the_World_with_Auntie_Mame
Reader's Digest was such a bland magazine, but those were always fun to read.) This time the frame is Patrick trying to keep his irascible wife Pegeen from killing him for letting Mame have their son for a little vacation...of two and a half years!...by telling her of his own life with Mame.
Highly sanitized, of course!This 2003 edition even restores a snarky little satire on Soviet collectivism that was excised from the original book..."Auntie Mame and Mother Russia"...that made me laugh out loud.
Primo libro che ho acquistato per il Kindle, Around the World With Auntie Mame è il seguito del fortunatissimo Auntie Mame.
Patrick è ormai cresciuto, e cerca di consolare la moglie Pegeen, preoccupata per la lontananza del figlioletto decenne, sparito due anni e mezzo prima insieme a Zia Mame per un giro all'estero e ora da mesi disperso a tutti gli effetti.E' così che Patrick racconta alla moglie una versione edulcorata del suo viaggio insieme a Zia Mame, molti anni prima, mentre noi lettori riceviamo la versione integrale.
Zia Mame è decisamente una figura sopra le righe, ed è incredibile l'equilibrio tra il suo personaggio e quello del ben più equilibrato Patrick.
Ricordo di aver letto il primo di notte, ridendo fino alle lacrime nel silenzio della notte. E' stato uno spasso. Speravo di ritrovare la stessa verve, ma non è stato così. La lettura scorre veloce e fa piacere ritrovare quella pazza sballata della zia Mame, fra fronzoli e Deuteronomio sempre a suo agio, ma il primo aveva una brillantina addosso che questo non ha. Pazienza.
Una lectura que he descubierto gracias a reseñas leídas y que he encontrado muy divertida...
aunque con un cierto toque agridulce.
Mame, excéntrica, rica, encantadora, camaleónica, con un corazón de oro; pero al mismo tiempo terca, crédula, inocente (según para que).
Su sobrino, Patrick, el que intenta, desde pequeño, marcarle unos límites y poner un poco de cordura en su vida.En este segundo libro nos narra un viaje por Europa que hicieron antes que Patrick empezara la universidad.
Narrado en primera persona, por parte de Patrick, pasa de una situación inverosimíl y rocambolesca a otra; y siempre, iniciadas por Mame, con intención de hacer algo bueno.Muy recomendable.
In the second volume of Patrick Dennis’ fictional memoir of a boy growing up with his super rich, super elegant, super crazy aunt, the narrator reminisces about his travels with Mame during the 1930s.
From Europe to Communist Russia (a brilliantly satirical chapter that was censored from the original 1950s release for being too risky), to the Middle East, Mame travels on a trail of scandalous social engagements, disastrous romance and neck-breaking adventures.I highly recommend reading both books in sequence.
By the time you have finished reading the second book, you’ll be completely in love with Mame and her world.
A good sequel for those who enjoyed the first book (or the film version). Some of their adventures I found a bit flat (Biarritz), and others dark (Venice), but overall the story worked fine for me; although, the first couple of chapters in Paris and London were stronger, with the rest seeming more . . . slapstick or formulaic. Narrator manages solid voices for Patrick and Mame, as well as the many secondary characters.
read this YEARS ago and loved it-doesn't every child want an Auntie Mame?
Patrick and Pegeen are besides themselves with worry about where in the world Michael is with Auntie Mame and the trouble they are getting into.
Pegeen probes Patrick to tell her what happened on his trip around the world with Auntie Mame and thus our story begins.I enjoyed this sequel just as much as I enjoyed the first book.
I felt a little more understanding towards his disagreements with Mame as she seems to have also let her common sense take a world trip but in the opposite direction.
The original manuscript included a chapter, "Auntie Mame and Mother Russia." which was not in the 1958 edition.
It is much funnier, more satirical, and a superior read to Auntie Mame, the 1955 bestseller, which I disliked as a formulaic and silly piece of fluff.
In Around the World With Auntie Mame, the fabulously rich, sexy and irrepressible woman travels to Paris, Venice, Germany, Iraq and Russia.
Patrick Dennis uses the wacky encounters of Mame to satirize everything and everyone, but especially Americans and British who live in other countries.
And if it was late at night, usually one channel somewhere was showing 2001.
I've seen all of them more times than I can count thanks to Grandma's cable.As an adult I decided to Patrick Dennis's books.
The first Auntie Mame covers his time with her in New York but it hints at some of their world wind tours together.
Around the World with Auntie Mame fills in the blanks by showing what happened to Patrick and Mame on their world tour.Each chapter is one stop on the itinerary.
They get into the usual trouble and Patrick has his eyes open to all sorts of things for better and worse.
I love these books and could never say a bad word about them!
The second book focuses on Patrick and Mame's travel adventures all over the world.
Unlike the first book you see a much shorter period of time, right before WWII and also before Patrick is supposed to begin college.
Of course nothing ever goes as planned and Mame and Patrick always manage to get themselves into the craziest of situations.
I wished this book would never end and that they would visit every country.
The book was almost like a comical version of a travel guide.
OH DEAR LORD HOW HAVE I NOT WRITEN A REVIEW FOR THIS...
so after LOVING the original...
finding out there was a SECOND book....
OMG...
of course I had to search for it alas it was not until its re-released in paperback in September 2001 did I find it :).
This book like is predecessor is a scathing and mad cap ROMP across the world...
I adored this book as much at the first!
Anyone who does not like this book (or Auntie Mame" because it is formulaic needs to WAKE UP...
this is the original...
LOVE it for that reason alone :).
Patrick's story of growing up with Auntie Mame fills in a missing chapter from the first book -- the tale of their trip to Europe.
This book continues in the same vein -- over the top, madcap adventures.Interesting chapter in here when Mame and Patrick go to the Soviet Union and end up in a commune.
Apparently this chapter was not allowed to be published when the book was first published, but they found it and put it in this edition.
The book was obviously rewritten (in the 50s) to not include it, but it certainly is an interesting piece, and fun to have it back.
Why Patrick Dennis's novels are not all in print is a complete mystery to me. One of the great figures and writers from the Island of Manhattan. Superb humor that is almost slapstick but incredibly witty and sometimes bitchy. This is the sequal to Auntie Mame and it is as good as the original. Go for it!
Truly one of the funniest books I've ever had the pleasure of reading. Patrick Dennis' wonderfully whacky, crazy, live life to the fullest, Auntie Mame stories are always in my top five funny, must reads list.
I just weep at how happy these books make me. I love them. I want everyone in the world to read them, and I want no one to read them because these characters are all mine.
Definitely not as charming as the first book, but it is good to "see" Mame again!
The musical is based on a book, "Auntie Mame" by Patrick Dennis, which I have never read.
My imagination didn't do half as good a job at portraying this lovable character as the people I've seen perform the role.Will I read the first book if it becomes available in digital form?
As far as this book, you may want to give it a try, especially if you either love the musical or enjoyed Dennis's earlier offering on which it is based.
Auntie Mame and Patrick are in Paris, with her good friend Vera Charles, who I didn't get enough of in the book.
The theater antics and writing are superb, and continue into London, where Mame gets roped into Lady Gravel-Pitt's scam.
Auntie Mame damaged her friendship with Vera and her romance to help in the most convoluted way, instead of simply trying to expose him, like Patrick did with Lady Gravel-Pitt.
That chapter is topped off with Vera getting back at her by marrying Mame's boyfriend.
Beaux's cousin Elmore is another leach, but Mame forces herself to fall in love with him, for good ol' times.
When we last saw her, Auntie Mame came back from trip abroad to spirit away Patrick's 7 year old son a trip to India.
He hates his office, because no news from the State Department over his kidnapped son, and hates to go home at night because his wife detests him for letting his crazy aunt steal their child.So the book already starts off pretty bold itself and not really in a "haha funny" spot.
And the overall message of the book when he's done remembering his year abroad with Mame, he's no longer really mad at her, and his wife seems comforted.
Seit über drei Jahren ist Michael mit Tante Mame auf Reisen, dabei hatte sie versprochen das Kind am Labor Day zurückzubringen, nur hatte sie vergessen in welchem Jahr das geschehen sollte.
Wahrscheinlich ist sie nicht unbedingt die ideale Gefährtin für ein Kind und nicht sonderlich an dessen schulischer Bildung interessiert, aber um sie prickelt das Leben und man trifft auf interessante Menschen.
Sie reist immer stilvoll mit Rolls Royce und dem japanischen Chauffeur Ito, der auch für Madame kocht.
Die Bücher entstanden in den 50er Jahren, sind aber kein bisschen verstaubt und die Themen sind auch heute noch aktuell.Ein erfrischender Roman mit dem Glanz vergangener Zeiten.
Via via che la linea tratteggiata delle rotte di Mame e Patrick copre metà del globo, e le etichette si accumulano sulle valigie, Pegeen forse non si tranquillizza, ma comincia a ridere, ridere, ridere.
Come del resto ridiamo anche noi, arrivando a intuire di quante lunghezze Mame riesca a staccare, col suo celebre motto, il presidente Mao: perché sì, la rivoluzione - delle teste, delle abitudini, dei conformismi - può essere adesso; e sì, può essere, anzi deve, un pranzo di gala.
While the first book built toward Patrick's willingness to reject the Upsons as wholeheartedly as Mame does, for this book, it's deferred onto an obnoxious American woman living in Lebanon.If you liked the first book and want more, then this is highly recommended.
For such a popular novel in 1958, it's surprising how free Tanner is with words like "orgasms." It's funny the way the book seems to have a campy gay sensibility when the central characters, including Patrick, bisexual Tanner's alter ego and pseudonym, don't seem to think too much of gays, especially gays in the theatre.
It's also startling such sensibility could have been so popular at the time.

I liked it but not as much as the original Auntie Mame book.
E così alla fine zia Mame è tornata!Sono felice di poter dire che questo seguito mi è piaciuto molto di più del primo libro!
come va a finire??" ma si arriva fino alla fine dell'avventura di turno.Stavolta non mi prudevano le mani per strozzare Zia Mame (semmai La cara Vera =D ) anzi, ho ritrovato una "vecchia amica" nella sua dolce cocciutaggine e sbadataggine nonchè più spumeggiante che mai..
:P[/color][/spoiler]Poi sarà che io adoro fare la turista, e con questo libro si riesce a farsi un viaggio delizioso, all'avventura in posti nuovi, tra profumi, immagini e persone.Voto: 8/10
Ci ho messo tantissimo a leggere questo libro, vuoi perché a tratti i personaggi parlano in un modo difficile da decifrare, vuoi perché all'inizio non mi ha presa molto, ma dopo un po' sono entrata nello spirito del romanzo e me lo sono goduto abbastanza.
Se vi è piaciuto il primo, vi piacerà anche questo, perché lei è davvero un personaggio buffo e carismatico.
Forse avrei dovuto dargli una stellina in più, ma a tratti l'ho trovato un po' ripetitivo e quasi forzato.
Non male però, se l'avete amata nel primo libro e volete ritrovarla, questo viaggio intorno al mondo non vi deluderà.
Such a witty and sparkling prose!A greatly enjoyable and captivating reading!
Auntie Mame is such a brilliant and sophisticated Lady and such a sweet and loving aunt (but nothing conventional ...) that nobody will resist her!
Set in the '30s and '40s and '50s, it hasn't lost at all its sparkling humour.Mame representes a counterculture that was almost non-existent at the time the book was written.
She's anti-establishment, anti-bourgeois, anti-racist, anti-bad taste, and anti-pretension...She's also pro-youth, pro-sex, pro-tolerance, pro-nudity, and pro-drugs (though her drug of choice's gin lol).There's a prequeL left to enjoy.
I know now that I'll hardly ever be parted from Auntie Mame.
So, the 4 star review is actually more justified this time around.I can see how this book became the cut bits from book one - while the stories are funny, they're not as funny as the stories featured in the first book.
The race slagging was more prominent, again - Mame does not support that kind of talk/attitude, and she makes it known.
even though it was the time, at least the people who were nasty got what was coming to them in the form of irritation and or called out/blackened out from society.Sitting back, taking both books in, I wish that a tv series was made of these books.
I feel like anybody could play Mame and Patrick.
While returning to familiar characters proved amusing, the episodic structure of Patrick and Mame's misadventures in different countries seemed more like an acidic absurd TV show. This week: Egypt!Patrick's already soured by Mame's antics and eccentricities, yet he refuses, through one mishap or another to be able t leave here without his conscience dragging him back. Many lines, particularly descriptions of gloomy castles and recherché decor, make it all enjoyable, despite the "It's a Small(Minded) World after All" perspective of Dennis portraying every culture in a cartoonishly awful light.
