https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36164.Crown_of_Shadows
Crown of Shadows; Or: Sorry, Priest, He's Just Not That Into You (Because He's an Undead Vampire and also Heterosexual.)all the standards established by the prior two novels are in place for the grand finale of this fitfully entertaining trilogy.at times amazing ideas and a compellingly realized world?
check!all the things a goth teenager would love in a genre novel: romantic despair, romantic nihilism, an actual romance that is probably doomed, dark forests, an evil albino, devious godlings, heavy-breathing religiosity, warped obsessions, and a super-sized amount of melancholy?
check!a tedious pair of lovers who moon about their doomed love and their terrible pasts but don't end up doing a lot besides whining?
4.5 stars for this book but I'm reducing rating of previus books from 5 to 4 stars.More detailed impressions to come.
++SPOILERS++5 stars.This is the third, last and best book of the series.There were aspects that I didn't like due to personal perference of content and not writing, but I cannot in good faith, lower the stars because of that.The writing:Technically speaking was excellent.
This again strengthens my opinon of the uselessness of book 2.The characters:As usual, I loved Damien and Gerald and truly feel a loss at the end of their story, which is neither happy or sad.
I felt sad that not only did Damien lose the one woman he ever loved (not to death), and his vocation but also his best friend.
This book was fine without the over the top romance.Second issue is, why did we need Andrys?
In book 2, the author hints that Tarrant left a surviving heir but that’s not enough to explain Andrys.I also don't understand who the Patriarch comes to realize that all his visions where calesta's doing but yet he still clings to the vision of Andrys as the only means to enter and destroy the forest?
No matter the sacrifice Gerald made and how much I liked him, the man was evil and did not deserve a second chance.
I really liked his character, but the author did not made a good enough case for giving him a second chance at life.
4.5 to 5.0 stars. Very satisfying conclusion to the Coldfire Trilogy after the excellent Black Sun Rising and When True Night Falls. I am a big fan of C. S. Friedman and this trilogy is a big reason why.
The bits of Tarrant's history that are revealed, the Church lore, everything about Vryce and Tarrant's interactions, the revelations about the fae, the resolution of the plot - it was all great pay-off and I loved it.
But it was interspersed with bits about one of Tarrant's descendants and about the Church's Patriarch that bored me to tears and that I now skip every time I re-read it.
My love for this book, and therefore the entire series, kind of depends on my ability to pretend that doesn't happen.
(This review may contain spoilers for the previous books, which you really must read before beginning Crown of Shadows.)In the previous book, When True Night Falls, the unlikely allies Reverend Damien Vryce and undead vampire Gerald Tarrant battled their way across hostile foreign countries to combat the evil force that was threatening humanity.
There’s more!” Now they’re on their way back home where they will — they hope — finally really combat the actual final real ultimate source of evil ...
which turns out to be Calesta the demon.Damien and Gerald ...
Read More: http://www.fantasyliterature.com/revi...
These companions, who have become friends (due to their working together in common interests in the previous books) despite the fact that they should be mortal enemies, along with the help of Karril work to stop Calesta from dooming humankind on Erna.
While this is all happening, the Patriarch leads Tarrant's only surviving heir (many generations have passed) on an attack on Tarrant's base of power, The Forest.One thing I really like about the book is how Tarrant, and Vryce, two very different individuals on the surface, strengthen their friendship and work together for the good of humankind.
It's good seeing Tarrant making choices that could lead him to a second chance (to save his soul).
Finally, I'm on the last book of this C.S. Friedman series, although now I'll be sad to leave this world and all of its compelling characters.
Gerald Tarrent is one of the best and one of the more complex villains I've yet to encounter, even more so than the Shrike (from Dan Simmon's brilliant hyperion series).
The Shrike was ultimately servile to a mysterious evil force and not necessarily autonomous, unlike Tarrent who is completely in charge of his awful destiny.
I used to think Friedman's books were dark, but now I just think they are very realistic.
Other times he is spending the book in 'Hell' because he apparently did one good-deed and the gods who turned him into a vampire decided to punish him for it.
The ending was a little weird because Gerard apparently (after loosing his powers while Damien takes him back to the living) made some sorcery deal that allowed him a new, mortal body of a younger man and if he was to tell anyone or speak his old name to any-one, it would make the new contract void and he would die or...
That, to me, is far more important than having a huge, epic action scene to finish things off, and it is, unfortunately, something that a lot of people in this day and age have come to expect, whether it fits the story or not.The character development, in Terrant especially, is very well done.
I found the religious elements of this series to be rather intriguing and well meshed into the story and characters, but I can see how other people who are not very patient with religion might have a hard time getting through it all.In conclusion, despite a few patches of questionable choices in pacing, this book is highly entertaining, and extremely well written.
I think it's cool, who she ended up with, I just hope Friedman didn’t expect me to believe they had a true love going on there.
Friedman went back to a problem I thought she got over in the second book.
There were a lot of things I wanted to skip because I just didn’t care, but I read them because I thought there might be something in them that would magically explain something else I had a problem with in some other POV.
I didn’t have the heart to go into the technical problems this time, but just know that they were a little better than the second book.
I could not put this book down. All the work established in the second of the series culminated here (though book 2 can definitely stand on its own), and thoroughly engaged me. There were less world building reveals here, as befits a wrap-up, but plenty of pay-offs on things we've come to understand and appreciate. I will add that the reveals shown were very interesting in their overall impact, and served to show a side of the characters not fully exposed in previous entries.All in all, a fantastic close to an intriguing series!
Clearly the best of the trilogy. Pretty much no filler, and engaging from beginning to end.
Yawwwwwwnnnn.I enjoyed the first book in the series, thought it had lots of potential. The second also kept my attention, though I was getting tired of the endless journeying that serves as plot in these novels.Unfortunately, the third failed to ignite. I've been slogging through it for weeks without finishing it, and ultimately I've lost interest. The bromance sort of fun, but it's not enough to keep this one afloat.
There was definitely potential, anything with demons and things that go bump in the night are right up my alley, but this series just lacked so much despite the constant duplication of themes, plots and characterisations.Another review I read really nailed one issue perfectly (sorry I can't remember who it was to give credit where due), the author really doesn't know how to weave romance into a storyline.
The bullshit of Damian praying for Tarrant to have his evil doings of the last 900 years or so being balanced out by his good over the last 2 years and hence having God bring him back to life as as human, is complete and utter light weight literary crap.I also grew really tired of being preached at.
Like its predecessors, Crown of Shadows is primarily an adventure book with the two main characters, Damien and Tarrant, both trying to vanquish an evil enemy.
This time, the enemy is Calesta, the demon who revels in others' pain and has been a character since book one.
The riveting opening scene of the book has Andrys going nearly insane remembering the vivid flashbacks of the Hunter killing his family.
Yes, there are some riveting and extremely dark scenes in the novel, but it didn't quite have that epic conclusion that a final book in a trilogy should have.
The quest-like story of these three books centers around a few main characters who (while being distracted by all kinds of character development etc.) discover a threat to human life as they know it and attempt to avert this fate.
This isn't immediately obvious - the first novel, Black Sun Rising, only covers the fight against a minor opponent - but the stage is set for the larger events to come.Over the course of the trilogy, there are several groups of well-developed characters, all centering around Gerald Tarrant and Damien Vryce.
In the first book each character is set in their ways and their beliefs, in the second these beliefs begin to bend and grey areas are found.
Damien is consistently in the morally grey area and it weighs tremendously on his conscious.
The characters moved me, though I admit to not being overly fond of the side characters from the first book, and I would kill to read some more of their exploits.Overall, I picked this series up accidentally because I mistook it for a book that had some good reviews.
It felt like the beats that Friedman planned for Damien and Tarrant weren't enough to sustain a full novel, so there was this whole other thing going on that didn't connect to the main action until late in the book...But more than that, my big disappointments: Friedman did some cool world-building in this series, but weirdly left a lot of it by the wayside throughout the books, and especially in this last installment.
"Crown of Shadows" is an excellent conclusion to a solid fantasy series by C.S. Friedman.
Contrast that with an author like Robin Hobb who goes into much more detail explaining the rules and interactions of the worlds she creates.
Not that Friedman didn't explain things, she did, and there's plenty of character depth.
I just found myself having realign my understanding of the world of Erna as I read through the series.The premise of Friedman's world, Erna, is one of the most creative I've ever read.
That alone is enough for me to highly recommend this book and this series.
From the start I was a little mixed about the idea of mixing Sci-Fi with my fantasy -although they are my two favorite genre’s and Sci-Fi usually has fantasy mixed in I prefer it to be a one way street.By the time Damian was in town and the Hunter was introduced I was completely convinced this lady has skills.
In the end she explains why the magic works the way it does and again splits off on a road that I would have discouraged, but with such plausibility it comes out very well.
I would suggest these books to any one who enjoys fantasy literature.She follows this up by actually bringing the books to an end, something fantasy authors have forgotten how to do.
I think the book drags a lot and it could have been a lot shorter.
I don't need to read again and again about his spiritual agony.Generally, I liked the ending and I believe that the author resolved everything nicely.
I can't help but feel that the world emerging after that is not one I would like as much.
Magic dies and the world becomes ordinary.
I recommend it to anyone wanting to read something different, with a unique magic system.
It makes you think about religion, good and evil, revenge and second chances.
This is a great ending to the series; everything wrapped up well and concluded satisfactorily.
While tragic, there is also a positive spin.
The strongest message centers on the power of sacrifice.
I have read many series in my day, and while I wouldn’t rate The Coldfire Trilogy as the best of the best, I will say it leaves a lasting impression.
One that both haunts and edifies.
This series speaks not only to the mind, but to the depths of spirituality.
Seems vaguely familiar.” Not so with Coldfire; this one sears a brand on the soul.
This book is freaking awesome! The entire Colfire Series held me riveted, but book three is by far my favorite. Both Damien Vryce and Gerald Tarrant have reached turning points in their personal viewpoints and the way they relate to each other. I don’t think I’ve ever read a series with an enemy/friend relationship that was developed so believably or so satisfyingly. My only regret is that the series ended. If I could give it more than five stars I would!
This was one of those books that made me sit very still for a long time and just reflect on the journey I had just completed with the characters of this story. Of course I had already fallen in love with them, and their journey had gotten extraordinarily complex. The climax definitely delivered.
A reasonable end to the story. It's an unremarkable series, but well done for what it is. The storyline with Tarrant is essentially the only part of the series that is consistently intriguing, but I don't regret having read it.
My favorite of the three. The ending is worth all the effort of reading the three books.I'm not sure how Friedman does it. But he makes a bad guy (Tarrant) so darn likable I end up rooting for him through the whole thing.
In summation: best book of the series, action and feels almost start to finish, and while I feel the final “boss battle” was fairly anti climatic it was an excellent read overall.
Loose end, whether it was actually important or not.
And doing so in the last sliver of the book just felt...odd.
But maybe if it were proposed earlier as an idea out of the 1500+ pages in the series it would be easier for me to accept.I won’t let 70 pages out of 500 make me drop a star.
I just might forget those last 70 actually happened.
This series is really great at not being predictable.
S. Friedman is also great for creating complex, morally ambiguous, and interesting characters.
Though I ultimately didn't find myself as excited about this book, and it took me awhile to finish, I did find it to be a satisfying end to the series.
If you enjoyed the first two novels of the series, I recommend finishing it with this third one.
It will probably not end precisely as you expect, nor will it take turns that you thought it would, but nevertheless it should provide a decent reading experience.
