https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/214993.Dog_Years
آخر جزء من ثلاثية دانزج للكاتب الألماني جونتر جراسرواية ضخمة, لها أكثر من راوي في 3 فصول وتتناول فتر
The last volume in the Danzig Trilogy is also the longest and most intricate. I felt I could feel the grimy mud between my toes on the banks of the bay near Gdansk where a lot of the action takes place. It is also another lens into the horrors of Hitler's Germany and a fantastic book. I'd recommend it after The Tin Drummer and Cat and Mouse and think you will not be disappointed.
In other words, German history.The two friends are Walter Matern and Eduard Amsel, who is not-so-secretly half-Jewish.
A changed Eddi Amsel rises from the earth, packs a suitcase and slips away into the night.The second section of the novel is written as a series of letters from the morally ambivalent everyman Harry Liebenau to his beloved cousin Tula, detailing their childhood, his experiences as a soldier, and the history and pedigree of the German Shepherd Prinz, Hitler's favorite dog.
Dog Years is a masterpiece of German literature, a deep, long, broad exploration of that terrible time in history when millions of ordinary people, all together, took leave of their senses--a book that manages to be an apology, a celebration and a warning.
The story is about two boys, a Jew and a gentile, who become friends in the years leading up to WWII, and what happens to their friendship when the war intervenes.
But the underlying form is about how the war was the end of time for Germany; everything that happens after the war in Grass's book is a retrograde of what happened before, as though the war eliminated the future and the only choice besides dying completely was for the whole nation to turn around and go back.
I believe this book was written for those who know the history of Germany, because I felt like I missed something from the beginning and I never understood what I missed by the end of the book.
Hence, if you know the history of Post-War Germany, you would probably enjoy this book more than me.
Unlike his previous books where Grass took the time to explain what life was like in Germany during the war, Dog Years didn’t take the time to explain what life was like after this horrible period of history.

I can only try and channel my impression of this book with whatever vividness I can muster.So, the Dog Years.
One must confess, though, that it is indeed first and foremost a quirky novel with a plot which is not only non-linear, but curvilinear, with different points of the curve tied by those resounding strings of divers colours: in the most unexpected places you shall see the familiar syntax of a hundred pages ago, you shall see a seemingly random phrase spring up here and there like a skipping pebble thrown on the river's surface by a kid.I revelled in solving this puzzle like one would solve a Rubik's cube, in figuring out what exactly the "dog years" mean, and why is the number thirty two everywhere, and why the scarecrows and the twelve headless nuns.
So it is with this book.The leitmotives are the strings for your own hand to touch and pluck.
My reading of Dog Years haunts me. It was a crossroads time and the absorbtion is steeped in a peculiar melancholy, about the moves about to undertaken. I'm sure a great measure of this projection, some psychic empathy with the protagonist. Neurological jury-rigging is inevitable; it does help to recognize the patterns and the places of origin. One is no less haunted, I'm afraid.
چقد دوسش داشتم:))چقد تا آخره داستان همه چیز مبهم بود
Arf...whoof...I did it!But it wasn't that easy.Now I feel like the dog printed in the front cover of this book and drawn by Grass himself.
Well, despite of its quick appearance "Prinz" the dog is the main character of this book standing as a symbol of quite many things:freedom, stubborness, human stupidity, struggle of life, disobedience.
But at least there is some brilliant irony."Dog Years" is undeniably a rather chaotic book, accumulating symbolism, historic references, peculiar ways of speaking and grotesque characters.
And yet this novel was very stimulating way for my poor little brains albeit I would have preferred a clearer distinction among the different characters in this very original frame.
Surprising, you may say, for a book that spends the first hundred or so pages tracing the flight of a pocket-knife that a boy throws into the river.
Surprising, for a book that spends long paragraphs enumerating the different ways his friend spells his name.
Astonishing, for a book that spends chapters listing the flotsam carried along by the river Vistula.Ah, but what the Vistula carries along!
Chairs, scarecrows, human lives and, on a good day, most of European history.
It must have been a good day when Gunther Grass sat on its banks to write this book.No, I do understand those reviewers who did not like it.
عمل مركب غرائبي ينشغل بالفترة النازية به الكثير من ألاعيب اللغة ،شحنة غضب هائلة وحقنة توتر .. الحقيقة لم استمتع به
And as such, finding out the main mystery-that's-not-a-mystery should not detract at all from one's appreciation of the book itself.Dog Years can also stand on its own, without being read as a part of the Danzig Trilogy, but the reader's appreciation of many facets of this novel-- most notably Edouard Amsel's character and the satire itself-- are more easily appreciated when you have The Tin Drum and Cat and Mouse under your belt as comparisons.
On many different levels I feel that this is not a book intended for any audience other than a post-war German one.
Without knowing the intricate details of post-war German political and social history, some of the material is simply unreachable.
For those of us outside of Germany who know a little bit about the pre- and post war times through family and other literature, the book does offer that uniquely unfiltered perspective of the German collective psyche that only Grass can offer the English speaking reader.
In the end, it is not a book I would recommend to the average American reader.
A boy throws a penknife into the Vistula, grinding his teeth.
Scarecrows dot the landscape, throwing villagers into a superstitious fear.
A chubby orphan girl is rolled into a snowman, and emerges a slender ballerina; a fat youth is attacked by brownshirts, loses his teeth, and is given his own transformative snowman.
Dogs -- perfect black German shepherds -- sire dogs sire dogs which are given to Hitler, then find their way away from the fall of Berlin to a knife-throwing boy turned Nazi turned drunk turned bitter avenger of the most banal Nazi crimes.
Surreal, the horrors of midcentury Germany made real.
Das Buch ist aufgeteilt in drei Teile. Den ersten Teil habe ich als furchtbar langweilig empfunden, den letzten Teil auch. Lediglich die Mitte, Liebesbriefe, haben mir sehr gut gefallen. Hier schreibt Grass Charaktere, die mit zu den besten gehören, von denen ich je gelesen habe. Komplex, tiefsinnig und manchmal sogar undurchdringlich. Dennoch konnte mich das Buch nicht überzeugen, was wohl vor allem an meinem persönlichen Geschmack liegt.
فضاي رمان "سالهاي سگ"، پيش و پس جنگ جهاني دوم در آلمان است..طبق معمول بيشترين چيزي كه اذيتم مي كرد بالا و پايين هاي امر خطير ترجمه بود اما تم اصلي كتاب را دوست داشتم. مخصوصاً كه حيوانات نقش پر رنگي در آن دارند و از فلسفه هم_البته بيشتر مارتين هايدگر به سخره گرفته مي شود و متهم است_ ردي هست..اگر مي توانيد در اين روزگار كتاب هاي قطور بخوانيد و مثل من لذت هم مي بريد، پيشنهاد مي شود.
المانيا حيث الفلسفة المثالية ومع ذلك تتورط فى حرب بلا أى معنى تحرق فيها كل شىء وتتفنن فى القتل والهدم، والغناء يبرر، والألمان يواظبون بحماس غنائى ثمل ومجنون على التمثيل الدرامى ورقص الباليه والفلسفة.
بعد الحرب يتابع الألمان حياتهم كأن شيئا لم يكن، سيالين مع تيار لعبة لا تنتهى، أدوار فى مسرحية، وفى النهاية كابوس من باطن الأرض يصنعه البطل الفنان المهووس بصنع فزاعات الطيور : مجتمع كامل من فزاعات تمارس كل الانشطة البشرية بإتقان وآلية.
This is the first Gunter Grass book I've ever read, and it is not a walk in the park, but it is very, very rewarding, thought-provoking and rich.
I just got the impression that his sentences and paragraphs sort of circled around into each other.
By the time I got to the end of the book, I realized that that was the point.
German history had sort of circled itself.
The whole book is a sort of a return--a circling back to what Germany had been before the war.
I read the Tin Drum in 1964 and Dog Years 50 years later.Grass stands as one of the few authors willing to get to grips with Germany's past.
He satirizes the hypocrisy and complacency of the fifties, but without giving credit to the real economic achievements of the era.
Germany experienced an economically difficult period.
It has had to come to terms with the presence of a large non-German population and in many ways Germany is now the economic powerhouse of Europe.
Read this book for insights into Germany's struggle with the past.
Not an easy read, but one I would recommend to every serious explorer of European history.

At times hilarious, this novel is also sprawling, and its brilliance begins to thin out midway through the third and final section. The portions set in the Free City of Danzig and in Nazi Germany are the best; the postwar German episodes -- when the character Walter Matern takes his revenge -- start off strong, but they ultimately do not work as well.In the section section in particular, Grass is clearly having some fun at Martin Heidegger's expense, with amusing results. I might find this even funnier if I actually read Heidegger, but that's not worth it.
Dieses Buch gehörte lange zu den Staubfängern in meinem Bücheregal. Vor etlichen Jahren angelesen, doch bin ich letzlich nie über Seite 20 hinausgekommen. Aber jedes Buch braucht wohl die richtige Zeit um gelesen zu werden. Jedenfalls hat es mich diesmal von der ersten Seite an gepackt. Der Ideenreichtum und die Fabulierlust in "Hundejahre" zeigt, welch exzellenter Erzähler Günther Grass gewesen ist.
Several events constitute turning points or the centre of the novel; Hitler's Dog, Prinz, elopes just before the capture of Berlin by the Allied Forces and the end of the war, and chooses Walter Matern as his new owner, two children are magically transformed by snow and violence and, interestingly, Oskar Matzerath (narrator of The Tin Drum) drums whilst walking between two girls, Jenny and Ursula 'Tulla' liebenau,a thing that no other character would dare to do, thus illustrating my earlier point about this books place in the Danzig Trilogy.There are 2/3 important relationships, but central is the friendship between two boys; Eddi Amsel,a gifted catholic German Jew and Walter Matern an athletic German protestant and Left wing Activist.
I read The Tin Drum over 35 years ago, so I had fallen way out of touch with Grass.
Along the way, there are hilarious passages, magical events, pseudo-scientific creations, several black German shepherds, some not very pretty sex, misguided love affairs, and a pocket knife that gets thrown into rivers.
I remember The Tin Drum being more consistent, but every time I got frustrated with a passage in this one, something incandescent would turn up in a couple of pages.
I imagine a grounding in post-war German social and economic history would have helped with some of this, but I could still laugh at bits that may have been based on actual events.
Once the hate settles and that hate seeps between the jew and the non-jew, the war starts and finishes, the world seeks justifications and forgetfulness, these magical elements become bound to explain the events on which that same hate prevailed: glasses who can show to the children the real past of their parents, God's message becoming manifest in the train station toilets as some stains are impossible to erase.
And that future bound to those sins of the past, brings forth the same mindless scarecrows, now educated and ready to take over the world.
The last part of a trilogy which is impossible to forget.
Che fatica.....Libro dalle mille sfaccettature: di difficile lettura e altrettanto difficile da inqu
Naujo leidimo proga iš naujo perskaičiau Dancingo trilogiją. Buvo smalsu pasitikrinti atmintį. O dar labiau - ar mano 20ies metų patirtys sušvelnins šių knygų smūgį. Ir viskas, ką galiu pasakyti: genialu. Gaivališkas ( o betgi gerai organizuotas) žodžių ir vaizdinių srautas užgriūna visu ištvinusios Vyslos svoriu. Svetimą patirtį paverčia mano patirtimi. Svetimą vaikystę, draugystę ir kaltę - manomis. Aišku, kad niekada neišnarpliosiu visų "Šuniškų metų" metaforų ir lygmenų. Tačiau tas neaprėpiamumas neparalyžuoja, o pasidalina savo jėga. Lyg iš saugios vietos stebėtum ištvinusią, kažkieno gyvenimų nuotrupas nešančią upę, ir menininką, kuris išsikėlė sau uždavinį visa tai nutapyti.
mr gunter goes over the top in some joycean modernist bullshit here, not quite the careful balance we saw in the previous entries to this trilogy. german shepherds are cool tho. the woodcut art is cool too go grass
Good book, rather long. Goes into a lot of deep German history. I enjoyed it though. Awfully detailed and may not be everyone's cup of tea.
