https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/179735.The_Girl_Next_Door
(a judge has not ruled on their mental ability to stand trial as of 5/5/11) What made me think of this story in relation to the book was my wondering about how the hell anyone could ever passively watch someone tortured or slowly dying and do nothing about it.
Davy knows that Meg is being tortured and I was fascinated with his reasoning about why everything was happening and whether he should do anything about it.
I can’t pretend to know how much work police men and women have but it is horrible to hear of events like this happening and to know that they were absolutely preventable if someone had intervened.This is a hard book to stomach.
During the course of a summer of slowly escalating depravity, Ruth, her children and a group of neighborhood kids under Ruth’s direction brutally torture and murder Meg. The story is narrated decades after the fact by one of the neighborhood boys, Davy, who suffers extreme guilt because he was aware of the torture but didn’t do anything to stop it until it was too late.
However, it is also an excellent book and one that I think has an important lesson to impart about the depths of human depravity and the need for good people to confront the brutality when they see it happening.
Τα κίνητρα και οι λόγοι για ολα αυτές τις φρικιαστικές και απάνθρωπες πράξεις, για ολα αυτά τα γεγονότα που σου κόβουν την ανάσα και σε συγκλονίζουν έχουν θύμα ένα κοριτσάκι και θύτες μια ψυχασθενή ή ανώμαλη ή συνειδητοποιημένη η οποία επηρεάζει και βάζει στο "παιχνίδι" τους ανήλικους γιούς της και σχεδον όλη τη γειτονιά.
Οι λόγοι όμως και τα κίνητρα καθαυτά δεν αποσαφηνίζονται δεν ξέρουμε γιατι όλοι αυτοί αντιδρούν τοσο κτηνώδη και απάνθρωπα.
Και να αναρωτηθούμε μπορεί να συμβεί οπουδήποτε στον οποιονδήποτε;; Εδώ ειναι η ειδοποιός διαφορά που κάνει τον συγγραφέα "ιδιαίτερο" αλλα και αναμφισβήτητα άρρωστα ταλαντούχο.
I get this feeling when there’s something important I know I’ve forgotten, or when I sense that something is gravely wrong in my little world.
The feeling was stronger - it started to pull at my guts like it does when I’ve really messed things up somehow or have neglected something major.
I kept reading, things were grim in the novel, but it wasn’t too bad....yet.
I couldn’t help David.
I couldn’t help David.
For those who haven’t read it - please check all the trigger warnings provided by so many of the reviews of this book before beginning.
If you feel uncomfortable reading about child abuse of a sexual nature, you might want to skip this one.The Girl Next Door was one of the first Leisure paperbacks I recall buying.
He reminded me of my father, who was on oxygen during the final years of his life.Here's where the personal info comes into play.
You can skip to "In summation" if you like.Growing up, I lived down the street from a pedophile named Eddie.
I know.When Eddie got out of jail a few weeks later, he would park on the cross street and walk up and down our block.
I've seen the movie a couple of days ago. It gave me nightmares. I don't think that I have the courage to read the book. I'm pretty sure that it'll drive me insane. Won't happen any time soon.
The story is told through the eyes of David, the boy who lives next door and who is witness to the escalating abuse and torture that these girls endure at the hands of the aunt and the rest of the children in the neighbourhood.First of all, I need to explicitly warn potential readers that this book is very graphic and detailed, and it is NOT for the faint of heart.
I did not enjoy reading this book, it made me angry, upset, and downright incredulous that people are capable of such inhumane actions, because this is not just some sick and twisted idea that Ketchum came up with, it is based on a true story.
Horror is my favorite genre and I love my stories bleak and dark but sometimes we have to know our limits.
As much as I think Ketchum is a powerful, brave writer who drew me into this story even as I was dragging my heels, I just couldn't hang with those details anymore.
As it is, from what I read, I won't forget.My heart breaks for the real 'Meg' who endured this horrific violation and for the boys who got drunk and stupid off their game of power led by an adult who was insane.
It's really the sickest story of human depravity and honestly, I don't recommend it to anyone--you just don't need to know.
When a pretty girl named Meg moves in next door, young Davy is smitten.
At the beginning, it felt like Stephen King's coming of age horror, like The Body or It. Then it became darker and darker until it was physically wearing me out to read it.The Girl Next Door is a story of abuse, torture, and helplessness.
Davy is torn between fitting in and trying to save Meg from the progressively more hellish life at Ruth's house.Ketchum paints a horrifying picture of life in an abusive environment.
I doubt I'll be reading more Ketchum any time soon.Current Kindle Unlimited Savings Total: $115.39.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ Have you ever read a book that you could not (with a clear conscience, at least) recommend to anyone? Ever read something that made you feel like you should turn yourself over to the authorities because only psychotic criminals would be interested in the subject matter you just exposed yourself to? If so, then you've probably already read The Girl Next Door. When Meg and Susan’s parents die, they are taken in by their aunt rather than
Ever read something that made you feel like you should turn yourself over to the authorities because only psychotic criminals would be interested in the subject matter you just exposed yourself to?
They are stories that if you follow too closely make you feel like a sociopathic voyeur.
This book takes you into the torture chamber and insanity that you know exists each time you see another story like that of Michelle Knight, Amanda Berry and Gina DeJesus.
It’s a book that totally goes there with a no holds barred attitude about what could happen if a young girl was placed in the home of a complete nutter.
The type that valiantly finds the Sad in Sadism.
This one's about the hideousness of child abuse, about Miserable Psychopaths & their deep punctures that leave nothing but death and devastation behind...Herein THAT form of evil, which is regularly found, sprinkled, Disneyfied previously in such forms as Cinderella, To Kill a Mockingbird, The Body/Stand By Me, Misery...Jewels, really, all of them, to our culture.
And the children come directly from the same mold that made Stephen King's Children of the Corn (but nothing so corny to be found here).
It is a devastating type of realism that I have not come to expect outside of true snuff-stuff or the superb, undervalued film by Peter Jackson, Heavenly Creatures.
He longs and yearns for something when he sees her, but doesn't exactly know what; Ketchum manages to capture the butterflies of youthful infatuation in his net - David learns that Meg is a distant relative of the Chandler's, and that she will be moving in with them together with her younger sister, Susan, after they both lost their parents in a car accident.
How could the Chandlers horribly abuse and torture Meg, and at the same time go on with their lives as if this was a perfectly ordinary thing to happen?Although David does not take part in the abuse of Meg, he does not do anything to stop it or tell his own parents - until it is too late.
Before reading this book, you need to prepare yourself.Yes, it's going to be disturbing.Yes, it's going to turn your stomach to knots.Yes, it's going to make you very, very angry.I won't go into the plot since several reviews and the book description already do that. I will say that to me, this book reveals the ugliest possible sides of human behavior, the worst being when good people do NOTHING to help. Even the author is disgusted by what happened, according to his note at the back of the book. READ AT YOUR OWN RISK!
Check out all my reviews on my blog page: http://constantreaderpauloneill.blogspot.co.uk/All hail the king of horror.
To my horror, half way through the book I realised that it’s loosely based on the true story of the tragic Sylvia Likens.
It tells the story of the escalating abuse both of them suffer at the hands of their aunt and her children.
Cash it in hell…Ketchum does an excellent job of making you hate Ruth, the evil aunt.
To me, it’s very much a horror.I can’t really say too much more without giving anything away.
Αρνούμαι να βαθμολογήσω με συμβατικούς όρους (δεν μου άρεσε/μου άρεσε/ήταν φοβερό) ένα βιβλίο που αφηγείται την απόλυτη κτηνωδία, με τρόπο τόσο ωμά ρεαλιστικό, που σε πνίγει, που πρέπει να σταματήσεις το διάβασμα για να πάρεις μιαν ανάσα, που όλο θες να φωνάξεις "σταματήστε γαμώ τον Θεό σας" και δεν σου βγαίνει η φωνή. Αν ποτέ βάλω τις σκέψεις μου σε σειρά, αν μπορέσω να γράψω μια δυο σειρές για το πιο τρομακτικό/βίαιο/φρικτό βιβλίο που έχω διαβάσει μέχρι σήμερα, θα επανέλθω.
I honestly don’t know how to rate this book. One star? Five stars? Throw it away? Is it a great book? Is it a pile of shit?There are a few stages of reading it:1. Oh, great, it drew me in from the first page, that’s great.2. Interesting character development. So logical. Great introspection.3. Oh, the tension is building even in the smallest scenes.4. Oh, shit is starting to happen. I can’t put it down.5. This is so great. It sends a great message. All that is necessary for the triumph of evil i
I honestly don’t know how to rate this book.
Is it a great book?
Is it a pile of shit?There are a few stages of reading it:1.
Great introspection.3.
Oh, shit is starting to happen.
This is so great.
It sends a great message.
Don’t be a coward.
When you don’t participate, but watch, you’re equally guilty.6.
DUDE WTFAnd then you reach a certain point when you’re like: why am I reading this book?
Why would anyone write a book like this?
What am I getting from this book?Nontheless, it’s a great book.P.S. The main character is equally guilty.
You should ask yourself only one thing: Are you ready for this book?No matter what you think, you probably won't be.The blurb reads as follows: A teenage girl is held captive and brutally tortured by neighborhood children.
These words will turn your stomach, will boil your blood, will yank at your heart and nest in the deepest darkest corners of your mind, with all the other things you wish you could forget.This is probably the most brilliantly written book I have ever read, but I can't recommend it to anyone, because those words may change you.
Ο Κετσαμ ειναι αυτο που ελεγε ο Βλαδιμηρος Κυριακιδης στις Βαρβαροτητες: Αρρωστια.Η καθε του λεξη μια σουβλια με πυρωμενο σιδερο στα πλευρα.Ωμος και συντομος.
Δεν χρειαζεται πολλες λεξεις για να σε σοκαρει.Ο καθε χαρακτηρας του ειναι ολοκληρωμενος.Το κοριτσι της διπλανης πορτας ειναι το τεταρτο βιβλιο του που διαβαζω.
Διαβαστε τον συνειδητα, εχοντας πρωτα αποφασισει οτι το μυαλο σας θα παραμεινει κλειστο στις κτηνωδιες που περιγραφει.
Ποτε μα ποτε μην πιστεψετε οτι ολα οσα γραφει βασιζονται σε αληθινα περιστατικα (και ας ισχυει).Ο Κετσαμ ειναι μαστορας στην αποκτυπτογραφηση της ανθρωπινης τρελας.
Και δεν εχει ορια.
Περιμενω πως και πως το επομενο βιβλιο του στα ελληνικα.
In this case they parked her and her sister with an acquaintance, no more than that, called Gertrude Baniszewski who lived in Indianapolis and had a whole bunch of her own kids and was dirt poor, an asthmatic, a depressive, and as it turned out, deranged.
Therapist : Do you think that's because your mother gave you cheese sandwiches when you were a kid?Patient No 2 : That's right doc - I didn't remember that until just now - this is a real breakthrough.Therapist : We're doing great work, Jeff.
Συγγνωμη αλλα δεν μπορω να κανω κριτικη... ειμαι σοκαρισμενη..
This is a disturbing book and a difficult one to read if you know beforehand how it ends (and it's pretty easy to figure out the outcome from the narrator's early comments).Knowing so much about this book before I picked it up (I read about the real life case it is based upon on crimelibrary.com), I figured I'd be able to handle the content but it was so unrelentingly brutal near the end that I had to put it down and watch a silly movie (The 40 Year Old Virgin, if you must know) to help me temporarily forget.
It tells the story of a dead man's return from the dead for one last visit with his wife and cat.
Μετά απο αυτό που διάβασα, δεν μπορω να μιλήσω... Το γεγονός ότι το βιβλίο ειναι βασισμένο σε πραγματικά γεγονότα, με ξεπερνάει.. Πόσο αρρωστημένο μπορεί να ειναι το μυαλό ενός ανθρώπου; Η γραφή του Jack Ketchum ειναι λιτή και ωμή· σε ρίχνει στα βαθιά και σου λέει "κολύμπα".
It is based on a true story.
I read about the story on line and knew how it ended.
If you are looking for a happy ever after with this book your not going to get it.
I think what really got me with this book is that it was  ALL TRUE .
Based on a true story doesn't get any realer then that.
When reading all my fiction dark books I love them.
But for some reason when it hits me that this shit I am reading is real, it pushes me to my limits that I didn't even know I had.
This is the most fucked up, heartbreaking, traumatising book that I have ever read.
It's four in the morning.
I had meant to read a few chapters before going to sleep.
Instead, I stayed up all night and finished the book.
It's impossible to like this book because of how disturbing it is, yet it is equally impossible to put down because you have to see how it ends.
I want to read more of his work, but I fear that The Girl Next Door may have scared me off.
So, given that it is by no means pleasant but on the contrary disturbing as hell, not because it's scary or gruesome in a splatter-y kind of way, but due to its very subject which is totally real and possible, what sort of perversion was it that kept me hooked on it?
You know how some people have had the wrong idea about something since they were kids and this misunderstanding causes them to not be able to enjoy certain things in life or even makes them hurt themselves and those around them?
Αναγνωρίζω το ταλέντο του Ketchum ως συγγραφέα, αλλά αναγνωρίζω και τις δικές μου αναγνωστικές προτιμήσεις και όρια.
Το διάβασα μόνο και μόνο γιατί έπρεπε, εξαιτίας του review.Το να γράψω πως είναι από τα πιο αρρωστημένα βιβλία που έχω διαβάσει ποτέ δεν νομίζω να 'ναι κάτι πρωτότυπο.
μπουκάρω μέσα και να κάνω στη Ρουθ και τα παλικάρια της τα τρισχειρότερα απ' όσα έκαναν εκείνοι.3 αστεράκια με βαριά καρδιά, ΜΟΝΟ και ΜΟΝΟ επειδή είναι καλογραμμένο μέσα στην ασχήμια του και γιατί ο Ketchum είναι αναμφίβολα μαέστρος στο είδος του.
Και πολλά είναι, για όσους με ξέρετε και μένα και τα γούστα μου.
3.5Read previously
The Game. It started off innocently enough, kid stuff. It rapidly segued into something else altogether when Mama, with her empty glittering eyes, joined in. This is as disturbing as anything you ever want to read.
Makes you wonder if there's a God. Makes you want to be Meg in the story and take away her pain.
Her restless spirit, scarred from all the visceral abuse that went beyond her body into her soul, takes root inside Ketchum.
It is Ketchum himself, but they can call him Dallas, for they will know him personally over the coming months, for the abuse will be brought back upon them tenfold.But that's not how the world works.
This book makes me wonder.
Lectura con el grupo 221 b Baker street "Pensé en lo facil que era herir a una persona. No tenía por qué ser algo físico. Lo único que tenías que hacer era darle un buen golpe a algo que le importase." Esta es la clase de historias que, una vez las terminas, van a acompañarte durante algún tiempo. Es difícil, más bien imposible, racionalizar lo que sucede y entender a aquellos que los realizan. Es brutal la sensación que te deja conforme lo vas leyendo y es imposible mantenerte indiferente, de h
"Pensé en lo facil que era herir a una persona.
Lo único que tenías que hacer era darle un buen golpe a algo que le importase."
Es brutal la sensación que te deja conforme lo vas leyendo y es imposible mantenerte indiferente, de hecho David, el narrador, es uno de los personajes que terminas detestando por su falta de acción, pero al mismo tiempo sabes que es el menos dañado.
De hecho, estoy segura que muchas personas pueden no terminarlo, o bien, finalizarlo y odiarlo por completo, es complicado estar con la podredumbre que aquí se maneja.
