https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10547.Memoirs_and_Selected_Letters
Grant also insists (in a contradictory way) that Shiloh was "the severest battle fought at the West during the war, and but few in the East equalled it for hard, determined fighting." Shiloh was a wild affair, fought by two undisciplined and green armies.
What follows, other than some smaller battles and maneuvering, is the Vicksburg campaign.
Here's a taste:"The 9th, McPherson moved to a point within a few miles of Utica; McClernand and Sherman remained where they were.
It is this "battle" that stands as Grant's great achievement.
Grant successfully coordinated a complicated land and water campaign, against a smaller sized opponent who got little help -- other than a piecemeal kind -- from other Confederate forces.

Others pass through the maelstrom changed in a different way: they leave with a respect for the limits of human grace, and a respect for those who manage to cultivate this grace to its limit despite the cruel engines that drive this world — and all of us in it — along its required course.While reading this people would ask me what mention Grant made of his drinking problem.
One of the more interesting aspects of the book is Grant’s ability to write about the War’s most important men in such a personal way.
Even though his words for Lincoln and Sherman are interesting and illuminating (after all, readers do not often get primary sources as relevant as those that Grant offers), it is his words for the war’s lesser known, but perhaps equally important, military men that makes this book stand out.
I wish I had come across this book thirty years ago, so that I could have studied it as an example of simple, concise and powerful writing.At the same time, this is one of the least personal of memoirs that I have read.
Grant wrote Lee proposing a temporary truce to allow both sides to collect their wounded and dead.
I highly recommend this book if you have any interest in the Civil War, or American History, or even if you just want to see the difference between the clarity of thinking at that time and what passes for thought among politicians today.
With all the (rightful) excitement surrounding Chernow’s new biography of US Grant (many of you on here have marked it as “reading” or “to read”) I just want to give a thumbs up to the Library of America edition of Grant’s memoirs and letters.
Anyway, the LOA volume is probably a steep first step if you’re just casually interested in this topic, but much of it is online in the public domain, and I really can’t recommend it highly enough, even if just as a skim to accompany the new biography.
Some people are war/history buffs.
That said, this book was completely fascinating from start to finish.
Grant could write-- I mean really write.
People are not exaggerating when they say this is one of the best autobiographies ever written.
My only wish was that there was even more-- perhaps a third volume to cover his term in the presidency.My favorite quote, if only because it is so keenly true:"Experience proves that the man who obstructs a war in which his nation is engaged, no matter whether right or wrong, occupied no enviable place in life or history." (Volume 1, page 68)
He was a courageous and determined military leader, a firm believer in civil rights and Reconstruction, and a humble and loving family man.
He wrote "Memoirs" while he was dying of cancer finishing the book three days before his death.
With his elegant prose, he tells the story of his life - his struggles with poverty and failure, his rise to Lieutenant General in the US Army (a rank held previously only by George Washington), and his two terms as President of the United States.
I have read "Memoirs" twice and each time I am astounded by the moving prose and the courage of this simple man.
One of the best books I have ever read, by one of the most important figures of the United States's second century and a man of deep integrity, humanity, and perception. Wonderfully written, a joy to read, and a privilege to have come to know a little bit about Grant through his writings.
I mean, come on, who can top the drama of a CIVIL WAR?!) I found that the scant sections on his participation as President fascinating.
And so, now I'm reading a two volume book that pretty much details every event from this war I had so carefully avoided for so long ...
(Not that Lee or Davis were equals to Bin Laden, but the idea of a long, fought era of history being drawn to a close would be difficult to not compare.)Now that I'm done, my only regret is that I didn't get to read more about what followed.
It took me 12 years to read this book. It's dense. But I kept coming back to it and I'm glad. Gives context, military history, a feeling for the times, and views of the war not gotten from movies. If you choose to read it, make time and way.
(With Churchill it was merchant ships, with Grant it was wagons, trains, and mules.) Apparently, courage combined with foresight kicks ass.I finished it.
One of the more curious things was that, he is, at the same time, not afraid to name names of generals that were passive or incompetent, and goes out of his way to say that, in many cases, these were inalterable components of their character and that, in other respects, for other missions, they were sound, intelligent and honorable men.
One last cool thing.
Apparently "factories" is a contraction.
This is a very-well written book with some fascinating commentary on life and war during a turbulent time in our country's history.
However, the vast majority of this book is an extremely detailed account of each and every battles in which Grant either fought or was otherwise associated.
For somebody with a more casual interest, however, there is just too much detail about battles to wade through to get to the other material.
The non-battle related material is so good though as to almost make everything worth it.
Grant's Memoirs were on my 'to read' shelf for about a decade, so I'm glad to finally get to it.
As a lover of history, I found Grant's account of the Civil War is invaluable.
As a lover of literature, I found it well written, engrossing, and deserving of the praise that has been heaped upon it.
At the time of writing, the southern re-write of Grant's legacy was already under way, and Grant refutes much of the criticism against him very well, but only as it related to his prosecution of the war.
Hemingway said that all modern American literature began with Mark Twain's "Huckleberry Finn." I suppose he hadn't read Grant's "Memoirs." Here is the clean, clear prose of a well-directed intelligence.
The intelligence that won the Civil War. And the story of how he did it.
Eyewitnesses say that Grant in his field tent would begin to write orders for battle, penning page after page, allowing each to fall to the tent floor until he was finished.
And the generals who read his orders understood what they must do.
Read this book and you will understand Grant, and why it was Grant and no other general who could end the Civil War.
Rightly considered one of the great works of American literature. One can't help but fall in love with the man, respect the soldier as a leader of men and admire the general as a great tactician and strategist. After getting to know the man better, it makes the tragedy, in retrospect, of his presidency even more poignant.
From studying Grant, one would not expect his memoirs to be so beautifully written especially considering that he was dying while writing them.
Written while he was dying of throat cancer AND trying to restore his fame's lost fortune. You think YOU have pressure?
EXCELLENT
Thus, I had wanted to read it for years, and now and again I would encounter a superb quotation from the work, which would increase my interest, to wit: “The framers were wise in their generation and wanted to do the very best possible to secure their own liberty and independence, and that also of their descendants to the latest days.
There had been much rain, and the roads were almost impassable from mud, knee-deep in places, and from wash-outs on the mountain sides.”Chapter XLVII.“The country back to the James River is cut up with many streams, generally narrow, deep, and difficult to cross except where bridged.
He discusses his participation in the Mexican-American war, in which he served as a lieutenant, and describes the character of the commanders, the overall politics and strategy, and the experience of the soldiers in that conflict.
After Grant was named lieutenant general and removed himself from direct command, his memoirs read like an annotated version of a Civil War textbook.
He defends himself from accusations, renders his judgment of commanders and campaigns, but he largely just describes events as reflected in official reports as he received them.
This one took me a long time to read because I was not prepared for the amount of detail about every battle.
It does get tedious at times because, as any good Civil War buff knows, there were a shit ton of battles.
(Yeah, I'm not marking spoilers for this because if you don't know how the American Civil War went, this isn't a book for you.) Grant's a good writer, and with Mark Twain editing, it's no wonder these are considered the best Presidential memoirs.
The version I read is not in the Goodreads database.
I'll add it later.I had already listened to the memoir.
I was just reading this for the selected letters, which I had read in a review made this volume especially good.The letters are good.
A few issues such as cowardice in the face of the enemy, camp followers, and plundering are subjects of letters but brushed over or never mentioned in the memoir.The letters would have been better if the editors had added a single line of introduction to each, setting the time/place and the corresponding page number from the memoir.
I spent the 6 weeks reading this book which was originally published in 1865.
The book was the best book of memoirs I have ever read.
The personal, professional and military life of U.S. Grant written by him.
The historical aspects of the battles and interaction between Grant, his men and his adversaries like Robert E.
Lee are just fascinating.
The book is written so well it brings to life those times through the eyes of Grant.
I highly recommend this book as a must read leadership book as the lessons of those time are as critical today as they were then.
From his early life to the mexican war to the civil war a man that thought the Mexican war was just a land grab to not liking to call the confederate army enemies. To a great war strategic and great planner of war and to always talk and have meetings with his other General about strategies on how to contain the other side . That is why every west pointer should read this memoirs.
Takes a while, but worth reading to get a firsthand account of Grant's thinking during the Civil War. Widely considered one of the finest personal memoirs ever written.
Never new what important role this man played in our American history, I'm in complete awe and after completing this book will move on to others about him.
Outstanding.
General Mattis calls it the best book on campaigning he's ever read and I can see why.
As a young officer I relate most to his actions in the Mexican-American War. Once he assumes command as a colonel at the outbreak at the Civil War and certainly when he assumes command of all Union forces, it is nearly impossible to comprehend the scale of warfare at which he deals.
Anecdotes and command relationships are the best part of this book.
It is a firm reminder that commander relationships matter more than command relationships.
But Grant's memoirs work in exactly the opposite way: by starting at the beginning and having the eschatology of the Civil War, every character acquires a tragic significance.If you were to take Grant at face value (and occasionally, you have reason not to), what it takes to be a general is a good understanding of character, a grasp of politics, and decisiveness.
The prose is remarkable succinct and readable, especially considering the scope of the subject matter Grant dealt with (the Mexican and Civil Wars) and that he wrote while he was dying from throat cancer.Several aspects of the book interest me.
(Interesting in that Lincoln acknowledges in the book to not have military genius, and was our greatest president while Grant was one of our greatest presidents but a poor president).Mainly what I liked about this book is that Grant does not glorify warfare for warfare's sake.
