https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/97860.Tuesday
He never ceases to amaze me and this book is such a beautiful and magical addition to our collection.The story begins in the early evening on a Tuesday and all is quiet at the pond.
All of a sudden, the frogs begin to levitate on their lily pads and travel into a nearby town.
They visit a woman watching TV, a man having a snack, and a dog running through a yard.The only text in the book is the indication that it’s Tuesday with the time.
Children love the watercolor illustrations and their imaginations can run wild with this story because it’s surreal.The idea of frogs traveling on lily pads is so magical and mysterious.
Such a delightfully enchanting picture book! We read a LOT of picture books when my kids were younger, but this one about frogs magically flying around town on their lily pads one fateful night was a favorite. I'm pretty certain we checked it out of the library multiple times.Flying frogs FTW! All the stars!!
This is my favorite one, and the one that demonstrates--and sweetly, humorously--his interest in surrealism, as it involves suddenly flying frogs, still on their lily pads.
On Tuesday, duh!
M. And again at 4:38 in an encounter with the dog.And then next Tuesday at 7:58 P.
M. something else begins to fly.
I mistakenly ordered the book from the library with a children's math kit which features toy clocks--yes, we can begin to learn to tell time, yay!--and frogs and so on, to the delight of this house.
I didn't enjoy this one as much as I thought I would. I really enjoyed Flotsam by this author. The story shows a Tuesday night when happenings outside don't pass as you would expect. The story was inventive and unusual but not one for me.
This delighted and amazed me.
The first frames brought bubbles of joy flooding my system.
What a joy and delight this was to read.
Do you read a wordless picture book, or do you experience it?
I didn't know a thing about this.
I really didn't know that flying frogs could bring so much joy to me.I love this man's imagination.
How does he take something so simple and ground it enough in reality that I was totally there with him.
This book is magical.The kids loved it.
The nephew and I were having such fun that the niece had to come check it out as well.
“Tuesday” is a Caldecott Award winning book from the creative mind of David Wiesner and is about how some seemingly ordinary frogs from a pond go on a magical adventure throughout the city.
David Wiesner’s story of a magic along with his beautiful illustrations makes “Tuesday” a mesmerizing book for children.
David Wiesner has done it again with creating a wordless book that tells its story through his illustrations.
David Wiesner’s story is interesting as the only words that he uses in this book are the short sentences that tell the reader what time the magical event is taking place.
Wiesner explores just how powerful storytelling can be without using any words at all. This unique and eccentric story allows for perfect opportunities for prediction and speculation during discussion. The illustrations themselves are extremely entertaining and could fit tremendously well into a classroom environment either to explore as a class or individually. I believe this is a fantastic book to just have around the classroom allowing children to become familiar and engaged with wordless picture books.
There are no words in this picture book; only gorgeous whimsical illustrations of ... flying frogs!!It is no wonder that this book is a Caldecott Medal winner. This is another outstanding children's book by the incredibly talented David Wiesner. I want to read all of his work!!
Fun, mysterious, and with lovely expressively gorgeous illustrations presenting a lush greenish/blue colour scheme that is just to die for (and more than well deserving of its Caldecott Medal award), David Wiesner's Tuesday actually has made me laugh out loud more than a few times (I just LOVE the scene with the white laundry sheets and that the rambunctious dog so bent on chasing the poor flying frogs so completely has the tables tuned on it).
I guess I’m pretty much alone here: The artwork, as usual, is wonderful, but I found this story slightly creepy. Am I missing something special that I simply didn’t get? I wonder.I adored Flotsam and I really enjoyed Free Fall, but this one didn’t wow me. However, I’ll happily read all his current and any future books because I do think he’s really talented and I predict that I’ll enjoy most of his books.
A great deal of fun and so creative! I loved the humor and the adventures the frogs got into. The expressions (on frogs and people) are so spot-on and made me giggle. A very fun adventure. Wish there was a sequel giving us the adventure hinted at on the last page! :-)
Another brilliant, gorgeous, hilarious wordless picturebook from David Wiesner with a perfect blurb on the front flap of the cover: "The eventsrecordedhereare verifiedby an undisclosed sourceto have happenedsomewhere, U.S.A.,on Tuesday.All those in doubtare remindedthat there is alwaysanotherTUESDAY." And I love the author's self-reference :)
Wordless illustrative books are always wonderful especially if they get it right. Tell a story without text. This one certainly does. It's a Tuesday evening in a small town, around 8 PM. Something is definitely happening. Tuesdays aren't supposed to be like this. Tuesday is a nice, respectable day of the week. Chaos should not envelop such a day's night. Will this happen every Tuesday evening? Lovely artwork and lovely idea. I certainly enjoyed it and can only imagine what a child looking at it
Wordless illustrative books are always wonderful especially if they get it right. Tell a story without text. This one certainly does. It's a Tuesday evening in a small town, around 8 PM. Something is definitely happening.
  Tuesdays aren't supposed to be like this. Tuesday is a nice, respectable day of the week. Chaos should not envelop such a day's night.
  Will this happen every Tuesday evening?
  Lovely artwork and lovely idea. I certainly enjoyed it and can only imagine what a child looking at it via nightlight will think.Book Season = Summer (tealights)
Gorgeously surreal.
The illustrations show a group of frogs that seem to be flying on Lillie pads at night across a neighborhood at night.
Apparently when it turns night outside, frogs fly around at night in Lillie pads.
I can only wonder how a parent would approach reading a “wordless story” to their children.Citation of two critical sources:Publishers Weekly describes this book as having visuals that are “stunning, slightly surrealistic and imbued with mood and mystery." This review was short and almost as wordless as the wordless picture book.
The review is effective in that it describes what happens in the pictures.
Synopsis : The events recorded here are verified by an undisclosed source to have happened somewhere, U.S.A.. on Tuesday. All those in doubt are reminded that there is always another Tuesday. Review : This is a book that truly illustrates how a pictures can be worth a thousand words. The beauty of these illustrations, paired with the fun and humor of frogs flying through the night on magical lily pads is just a gift from Mr. Weisner that everyone who is lucky enough to pick up this book will un
: This is a book that truly illustrates how a pictures can be worth a thousand words.
The beauty of these illustrations, paired with the fun and humor of frogs flying through the night on magical lily pads is just a gift from Mr. Weisner that everyone who is lucky enough to pick up this book will undoubtedly treasure.
But, perhaps because this fantasy never coalesces around a human figure, it is less accessible and less resonant than his tales that center on a child protagonist." I agree wholeheartedly with the first sentance but, don't agree with the second.
This book has fantastic illustrations, but an odd "story". My kids liked it a lot and I liked the surrealism. We will certainly look for more books by this author. This book was selected as one of the books for the July 2016- Quarterly Caldecott discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
If your'e curious to know what this wordless picture book is about, just think, "flying frogs on lilly pads and loving their night out away from the pond."
When I started reading David Wiesner's books the one title universally recommended was Tuesday.
I have finally taken that advice to heart and read the book.David Wiesner specializes in wordless picture books.
In this one, the only word used (and it's used sparingly) is Tuesday as a reminder that all the events are taking place on a Tuesday night.Those events involve frogs flying through the town and countryside on lily pads.
The pallet is rich in blues and greens befitting a night time amphibian adventures.The book has won the 1992 Caldecott Medal.
It also won two state awards: The Kentucky Bluegrass Award for K-3 in 1993 and the Young Hoosier Award for K-3 in the same year.
We read this sometime last year and enjoyed it but did not fall in love with it. Really, we had sort of forgotten about it, which turned out to be quite wonderful, as I would probably not have picked up Flotsam otherwise. Tuesday is odd, certainly a compliment, but my kids did not warm to it as much as I had hoped for a wordless picture book full of original and interesting pictures.
Strange and surreal, with a little humor and a bit of eerieness as well--quite intriguing!
A very peculiar book. What attracted me to this book was the cover; it's beautiful, one of the best I've seen, but the story was a bit strange. I prefer more words I guess.
من أوائل الكتب المصنفة (ككتب بلا كلمات) التي اطلعت عليها وشغفتني بفكرتها.من أحب الأعمال التي مرت علي، وارتقت بعمليتي التفكير والخيال عندي!
best kids book ever.
What did I just read/look at? Flying frogs on lily pads and flying pigs. Illustrator was a genius.
A very strang book.
This books shows how amazing Wordless books can be. This would be a lovely book to use for discussion in a classroom, story telling in literacy or in art for an example. Wiesner depicts the power of illustrations and the effect they can give, his interesting drawings really get the brain going.
Enjoyed reading this book, it was incredibly fun to read! No words, just wacky vivid visuals. Really allows children to use their own imagination to create their own narrative.
At around that time, an unknown force rises all the frogs on lily pads, from a swamp, into the air and takes them around a nearby town for a joy ride.
On a separate page, a frog floating on a lily pad makes its way towards the right of the page.
The story takes place in a very realistic world, in the suburbs of a small town, but the fact that frogs float on lily pads makes it unrealistic.
The story takes place throughout a whole night.
My favorite part about these animals is their reappearance at the end of the book.
When normally your attention is drawn to the investigator and the crime scene that center the page, a careful eye closes in on the cat from the old lady's house and the dog who was chased down by our friendly frogs.
Although wordless picture books allow readers to interpret and understand the story on their own, I feel that the surreal illustrations, although unreal and "out-there," provide readers with a common question that many can relate to.
