https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3979.Song_of_Kali
Does for India what Heart Of Darkness did for Africa; uses it as a setting for a tale of unease and terror that could have been set anywhere, really, except that using a third-world setting plays to the western gallery's delicate sensibilities.
Oh, it also grated on me that all the chapters have an epigram taken from an Indian writer except the one chapter that lets in a note of hope and therefore has to return to the light of western civilization with a quote from W.B. Yeats.
Thus begins Dan Simmons’ visceral, violent travelogue through the dark, murderous underbelly of Calcutta. This was an excellent read, but you should know going in that this is NOT a warm, fuzzy, feel better about humanity story. In fact, you might want to have your favorite blankie or stuffed animal or a bottle of Scotch and some happy pills with you before you begin reading this to help hold back the glooms. Here’s the basic set up.  PLOT SUMMARY M. Das, one of India’s greatest poets, mysterio
Robert Luczak, writer, columnist and our main character, is sent with his family to Calcutta by Harper’s Magazine to find and interview Das, verify the new work is authentic and bring back a copy for publication in the United States.Luczak’s search for M.
That’s the plot in a nutshell, but it doesn’t convey the feel of the novel and the dark, deeply disturbing atmosphere that Simmons manufactures with his sense-laden depictions of Calcutta.
Thus, fans of Simmons should know going in that Song of Kali does not reach the level of quality and polish of his later works, most notably the Hyperion Cantos.
Dan Simmons is fast on his way to becoming one of my favorite authors.I felt horrified during a lot of the book, and saddened during a lot of it, but I like the way that it isn't totally and completely engulfed in despair.
So, I suppose the whole point was for the protagonist to be naive and not to have a lot of street-smarts, so that at times, you actually felt like shaking him.
Well, it's rare that you'll find a horror author who started out their career with a massive tome as their debut novel.
They're all debuts that are around 300 pages long from authors known to write gargantuan books.
I don't quite know how Simmons pulled off that scene.
Such scenes authors spend entire careers hoping to accomplish, but Simmons did it in his debut.
It's nice to see how Simmons has grown since his debut, and I feel I have a greater respect for his journey now that I've read where he started.
Song of Kali isn't one of Dan Simmons' best works, but it is a fine example of what makes him one of my favourite writers: his range.Simmons loves history, mythology, authors, writing and reading, and his loves have led him to create one of the most varied bodies of work amongst active writers (although it appears he will soon be challenged for the crown by China Mieville).
Historical fiction, urban fantasy, hard sci-fi, horror, historical horror, whodunnit, poetry, mythos, and whatever else works.Simmons is an author among authors, and if you have never read him this is a good place to start.
* A 300-page diatribe against Calcutta, which city evidently offended Simmons at some point.* His hero, Bobby Luczak, is a coward who behaves stupidly and illogically; he's an effete literary type who one would think would treat his mathematician wife with some respect, but who repeatedly hides things from her and deserts her without reason.
His wife's only purpose seems to be to show how stupid he is by contrast.* One character, the college kid who gets the plot rolling, tells Bobby a story about the worshippers of the evil goddess Kali.
For him, it's a pleasant dream.* Simmons seems less interested here in plot than Lovecraftian dread.
I read SONG OF KALI 15 years ago and it remains one of the most well written, frightening books that I've ever read. Still one of my all time favorite reads, in any genre.
To appreciate it you have to cast your mind back to the period when, and the places where, it was formed in the mind of Dan Simmons as a young American liberal and literary intellectual - in the India and the US of the late 1970s and the early 1980s, just as the former looked like an intractable social problem of never-ending poverty and consequent cruelty and the latter was still in or emerging (just) from a recession similar to the one that we are now entering.The book could not be written now.
And, perhaps, defiance at the world which demands such pain." ― Dan Simmons, Song of KaliHorror is not my normal territory.
As far as genre fiction goes I probably reach for a horror novel as often as I reach for a fantasy novel.
But this is Dan Simmons we are talking about.
How poetic could Simmons make horror?
I'll keep reading Simmons when I want a vacation from the classics or an escape into literary genre fiction, but I don't think I will need to steel my nerves with any tonics or leave the lights on to go to sleep after I close the book at night.
This is a more literate genre novel than most. The story was gripping and propulsive even when I had a hard time suspending disbelief. But the images of Calcutta seemed somewhat stylized--Dickensian squalor without the redeeming Dickensian prose--and the characters didn't exactly wow me with their depth. Then again, this is a genre novel, so maybe my expectations were a little off? Maybe. Still, in the end I liked it well enough.
I am a huge Dan Simmons fan and the Hyperion series is probably my all time favorite series. This is Dan's first novel and while much different than his science fiction is still awesome. But OMG is it dark and disturbing and filled with descriptions of squalor and violence and some very unpleasant people. This one will stay will you after you are done reading it.
After wondering for the better part of a day why I felt like this, I decided that maybe there was not as much charatcer inner monlogue as I tend to prefer, that there was an overabundance of observation and relaying of the scene rather than a natural unfolding of events.
So maybe I am being unfair, judging one part of the book against the other and penalizing Simmons when not warranted.
But I will be looking into more of Simmons horror novels.And as a warning, there were some deeply disturbing scenes, particularly towards the end.
Dan Simmons though paints a grim portrait of this town and calls it in so many words a nest of many evils.Kali is in Hindu Mythology a manifestation of uncontrolled feminine power.
Simmons capitalizes on this and takes imagination to a higher level when he calls Kali an undoubtedly evil entity with a ruthless cult behind her.
Contrary to my usual taste, there is quite a scattering of the visceral throughout the events which serves mostly to heighten the ambiance.I agree with many of the reviewers here, the characters and the story makes us feel that Kolkata is solely and completely evil.
This is one of the most auspicious debuts of any author. Simmons' style was pretty much developed from this first novel published in 1985. He continues to be the best horror writer alive when he wants to write horror. However the really horrific thing about Song of Kali is Simmons' devastating descriptions of Calcutta. Go into this novel with little or no information about it in order to get its best impact.
Dan Simmons is one of the most skilled writers of science fiction currently putting pen to page (or however that metaphor would work in a post-paper age).
zombie poetry), a good dose of gothic dread, a secret death cult, and (have I mentioned?) it's set in India.
It had everything I like in a good read, but just didn't work for me.
By the time I finished the book I just kept hoping that she would leave the creep.
I've still got a lot of respect for Simmons and what he has done with his sci-fi writings, but think I'm going to avoid his older works for a time.
I had heard of Dan Simmons but this was my first foray into his actual work. I can't believe I hadn't read this already. Exotic locales - check. Creepy cults - check. Ritual sacrifice - check. Ancient supernatural entities - check. And that reveal in the airport at the end disturbed my imagination for days. It also made me want to watch Temple of Doom over and over again, which is definitely not a bad thing.
Thoroughly researchedI generally like Simmons but I went into this book with some trepidation due to the tepid response I read in the reviews.
Overall I liked the book, but I brought an interest in India and the theological ideas that have emerged from there to the table.I stopped occasionally and researched groups or concepts as I read and I found this interesting as well.
The book has been called xenophobic.
Ποτέ δε με άφησε η αίσθηση του ότι κάτι λείπει. Πολλά γιατί στα οποία δεν παίρνω ποτέ απάντηση και που τελικά σε κάνουν να σκέφτεσαι ότι ο Simmons είχε μια ιδέα να γράψει κάτι, είχε καλογραμμένες σκηνές να δώσει, αλλά χωρίς τίποτα να έχει κάποιο νόημα και λόγο ύπαρξης.
I have been examining other reviews on this site, and it doesn't seem that anyone else had this issue, but from almost the first page, I simply felt a lot of scorn for this man, so clearly far out of his depth, yet so obviously full of a self-satisfied complacency and full-bellied relief that he was living in a nice, safe country where he could raise a stable, middle-class family and strive toward being some kind of intellectual paragon whilst writing for his little magazines.
In fact, the buildup to the book's harrowing climax is really quiet and subtle, so that one just sort of reads along and, like Luczak, doesn't quite realise how dire things have become until the very last moment.
Though the book is dark and disturbing at certain parts and the opinion of the protagonist, Luczak, is offensive towards the Hindu religion and Indian culture as a whole, the book was a good read.
The main reason for this is the respect that the writer shows towards the Hindu beliefs by incorporating parts of the folklore into his storyline – the main twist was left unrevealed which may intrigue the readers enough to think about the possibility of supernatural interventions.Being a follower of Hinduism and having a locally termed “jagrata” temple of Kali attached to the front of our village house, I must admit that I could relate to the environment that Dan Simmons created and the horror that it might present.
Well, this is embarrassing. I finished the book this morning and am feeling clueless. I’m not sure I ‘got’ it. Husband: Well, did you like it or not?Me: I really liked it.Husband: Why did you like it?Me: I’m not sure. Husband: What was it about?Me: Ummm, evil. And India. Crime…I think. Cultural differences. But also likenesses. It’s a horror story but, well, not really. Husband (with a tone): Well, I certainly can’t wait to read it. Funny thing is, I recommend this…highly.
Fucking Simmons. Always hit and miss for me.
35)The plot is interesting enough – a literary journalist in America (Luczak) is given an assignment by his editor to travel to India with his Indian wife and their young daughter so that he can interview a poet who had apparently resurfaced after disappearing in 1969.
However, I very much liked the story related by a young Indian man to Luczak (over the space of three chapters) about his own experiences with the Kali cultists, as it contained a significant amount of horror in its own right and hinted strongly at the supernatural.
Μερικές φορές ονειρεύομαι πυρηνικά μανιτάρια πάνω από μια πόλη κι ανθρώπινες σιλουέτες να χορεύουν σε μια κόλαση φωτιάς που κάποτε ονομαζόταν Καλκούτα΄΄… Γιατί τέτοιος οχετός; Ποιος σας έδωσε το δικαίωμα;Παρόλ’ αυτά το κεφάλαιο 9 με τον τρόπο του είναι ενδιαφέρον και αναφέρομαι στο διάλογο Τσάτερζι – Αμρίτα, σου περνάει την αίσθηση της υποβόσκουσας βίας λόγω ξενοφοβίας, αυτό το επικίνδυνο στα μάτια που λέμε, ή την εντύπωση πως ο τόπος είναι αφιλόξενος, ή απλά δε σε θέλουν εκεί.
An appropriate subtitle might be "Never get off the boat".In 1977, Robert Luczak is a creative writing instructor, poet and co-editor of a literary magazine in New York who ignores the advice of his editor and accepts an assignment to Calcutta,.
Luczak is tasked with obtaining a new manuscript by a famed Indian poet named M.
From the moment Luczak exits the airport, his dread is palpable and so is the reader's.
Simmons trusts the reader to use their imaginations to determine whether Luczak is plagued by demons he packed with him or is being tormented by the goddess of death herself.
I bought Song of Kali after hearing people say that it was one of the scariest books they've ever read.
I didn't find this book "scary" in the traditional sense, but it definitely had its creepy parts.
The story revolves around a man and his family taking a business trip to Calcutta and the supernatural troubles that find him there.
I really enjoyed the book, it stared slow but I couldn't put it down towards the end.
All in all, the book didn't leave me scared of the dark but it certainly ensured that I will NEVER travel to or near Calcutta.
Not sure how to fully convey what the reading experience of this book is.
Man goes to Calcutta and has a dreadful time potentially mirroring authors own unpleasantness in Calcutta and potentially entire book is an exercise of working through said unpleasantness -a little dismissive.
Man goes to India with family to retrieve manuscripts, India repulsed, hood winks and roundly horrifies him, he goes nuts seeks solace back in the west from deep unknowable eastern evil.
Perhaps best captured by not really worth your time but if it is the only book available in some resort and you have read everything else then by all means give it a go.
Докосваща книга. Отвъд мрачността и ужасите на Калкута, всъщност песента на Кали ни говори за нас. За нас хората, за тъмнината вътре в душите ни и векът, в който живеем от едно известно време. Век на жестокост, разрушение - морално, духовно и обществено, насилие и гнилост. Като Калкута. Като всеки един насилник в света, с душа толкова грозна, колкото улиците описани в тази книга. Прочетете я, има и красота между страниците. Особено в края <3
A worthy winner of the World Fantasy Award!Before I read this novel, I was surprised to hear that it won the World Fantasy award.
One of my favorite parts is when someone reads a description of Calcutta and asked if it matches what Bobby thinks of Calcutta.
The only downside I can think of is that one of the more important parts of the story, it was read from a poem.
But I got a basic understanding, and it didn't affect the story as a whole.
If I was told that this was his 7th novel, I wouldn't have been surprised.
This is supposed to be the scariest book ever. It is scary in spots and maintains a rich tone dripping with dread. And it makes you want to never visit India. But it wasn't all that scary, I think because the scary things are all in Calcutta. As soon as the characters return to America, the threat disappears.
