https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/815870.Fascinating_Womanhood
Ok, my grandmother wrote this book.
(No kidding - my mother's mother) so I kind of grew up with it and this is what I have to say about it: This is a very important, and very helpfull book about discovering who you are as a woman, and how to deal with men.
Despite all that, I read this book through for the first time when I was twelve and it changed my life.
Trust me on this one when I say it's an important read.
Archane guide to playing your husband: e.g. sit on his lap and talk in a babyish voice when you want something from him; go to bed in your makeup, then slip out of bed to clean it off after your husband falls asleep, then wake up before him to reapply it before he wakes; practice laughing so you sound like a "brook trickling over pebbles"; keep the children quiet, clean and away from their dad after gets home from work; always tell your husband he is very strong, talk about his broad shoulders and large biceps, etc.
I read it when I was a young teen and was thoroughly creeped out.
This book is worthwhile just for comedic value. It is absolutely ridiculous.
All I can say is that no earnest God-loving, Christ-focused woman would ever follow the manipulative teachings of this book.
Instead, it appeals to those women who long to wield dominion over their husbands rather than truly partner with them.
It teaches women how to cheat their husbands out of the very things men need most like honesty, open-communication, and intimacy based on Christ-centered teachings.
This book teaches women how to use cunning and artifice to obtain what the author calls a "righteous power" over their husbands.
Its very design pulls adherents away from the teachings of Christ and into the realm of game-playing, manipulation, and deceit.
This book has contributed nothing meaningful to my marriage. Wait, no....there is something! We now make plenty of great jokes about derailing a fight by acting girlish. For example, husband says: "Hey, I think we need to talk about some ways to save more money in our household." Wife says coquettishly in a little girl voice: "Oh yeah? Well maybe I'll just BURN your pancakes, Mr. meany man!"
Absolutely horrifying. Every word. Unless women want to be weak, outwardly submissive, seemingly helpless, subtly manipulative, and encouraging of pedophilic tendencies in men. Give me Lara Croft over a Madame Alexander doll any day. I'm going to stop reviewing now, before I become really angry, swear a blue streak, and commit perfectly justifiable acts of violence.
The best part of the book is understanding how men think.Most of the things in the book will make you want to throw up.
However, just read it with an open, humble mind, and you will see that it is how to understand men and women, and how to be giving and unselfish, WITHOUT BEING A DOORMAT!
THAT IS WHAT WE NEED, OUR MEN TO TREAT US LIKE GOLD.
Ahhhhh that feels sooo good to get off my chest.So read the book with an open mind.
I learned absolutely nothing from this book, unless you count that I found out that Helen Andelin is crazy and, in her mind, probably lives in the 1500s.
This book teaches women how to be submissive and weak, because that's the way a "true woman" is, as well as to be half-retarded, in order to treat a man right.
I also take issue with the author because, towards the back of the book, possibly in the summary (?), she suggests that if a man is abusive to you (and yes, she also includes physically), instead of LEAVING THE MOTHERFUCKER, you should sit down and think how you may have wounded his pride to make him react in this way.
This book had me excited and angry the whole time.
I can see where the book was supposed to lead women in marriage.
However, I think that so many women have been misguided in reading this and I feel sad.
I am grateful to have a husband that I can discuss what I read with.
I would of believed everything I read if it were not for his input.
Do I recommend the book?
Well, if you feel that a woman should have no voice and that they make nice floor mats...then by all means I say, read.
As with any book of this type you take what you need at the time and ignore the rest.
There are some things that I didn't agree with, but the overall message is about how men and women are different and how they compliment each other.
This is not a book for those deep into the feminist movement, but it is for those who are proud to be a woman.
It is quite contriversial and I know that a few years ago I wouldn't have liked it.
It is a proactive book and is not about changing anyone, but yourself to make your life more harmonious.
Freaking hilarious.
Despite the low rating I give it, I actually recommend everyone read this at some point.
Partly because some of the ideas are a little on the ridiculous side (like taking cues from how small children behave as a way to act angry or get what you want), and partly to demonstrate why we (and I say this in a general all human sense) need feminism.
If masculinity is so strong, why does it need to be coddled?
That's the biggest point I don't understand about practicing Fascinating Womanhood, but now I'm kind of rambling.
Again, I encourage everyone read it at some point.
He is so weak, and his self confidence so fragile, that he will crumble unless he is kept in a world of delusion.A woman, in Andelin's mind, should be 1 part helpless idiot, 1 part doormat, and 1 part manipulative child.
What an unbelievable baby!!!" I'd rather be a crazy cat lady than be forced to create the delusion this insane woman thinks we should live in.Furthermore, why can't a man be protective of an independent/self-sufficient woman simply because he WANTS TO????
The only good thing about this book is that as I read I was repeatedly reminded just how LUCKY I am to have a real man.
oh my word!! such outdated philosophies of the husband/wife dynamic. Some argue that it is just Christ centered living towards your spouse, but I disagree, I think she is teaching women to manipulate their husbands to get what they want out of marriage, and that is never a good idea. Still, an interesting insight into what woman had to deal with before women lib.
In terms of instructional value, this book is zero stars. So ridiculous and antiquated, it may have been the catalyst that rang in the women's movement era. EG: Wear your makeup to bed so you look nice for your husband, then, after he's asleep get up and take it off.But, we found a copy at our Montana cabin and have spent many summer evenings reading passages out loud and laughing our guts out. So for entertainment and mocking value, I gave it three stars.
She claims them as evidence supporting the value of the character traits possessed by a “fascinating woman.”2) One-dimensional and offensive assumptions about women and men passed off as unquestionable truthsAndelin has the audacity to claim that her method is the only way to find happiness.
She also assumes that a man could never value and love a wife that can stand on her own two feet and pull her own weight in the marriage.3) Men are never to be questioned, they are never at fault and they are never responsible for their bad behavior.Throughout the book I had a nagging feeling that something truly evil lurked between the lines.
I think the thing that I love most about this book is the quote from the author on the back.
According to the author, the ideal woman (from a man's point of view) has the following qualities: she understands men, has inner happiness, has a worthy character, is a domestic goddess, is feminine, radiates happiness, has radiant health and is childlike (not childish).
A man needs to feel accepted by the woman he loves, his home a place where he can feel secure.
LOL
And dont tell me that he manipilated his wife to come back to him, no he won her love and appriciation, this book teaches you the same thing.Sorry you have to hear this from a woman who doesnt have divorce papers on the table and never had a cheating drinking and abusing husband.
Dont listen to spoilers, read it and help yourself and your husband, you will find true love and passion toward each other again.
I kept trying to keep that open mind, but the more it spoke about giving all the "power" in the marriage to your husband and letting him rule over you, the more I got my back up.
I believe that we should put each other first, and although the book said that I should put my husband first, it went on to say that I should expect no such treatment from him.I do not want to fool my husband into loving and adoring me by holding back my feelings and opinion, by pretending incompetence and ignorance, and by letting him have the only say in our marriage and family.
Andelin has taken true things about the relationship between men and women and turned them into a burdensome set of rules.
Why is a wife supposed to submit to her husband's authority?
Paul says a woman submits because she does not fear men, she fears God.
"You are Sarah's daughters if you obey without fear." Instead, Andelin offers a works-righteousness approach to marriage, hence the stupid rules on how to wear denim, tossing your curls, and never looking like a woman who, heaven forbid!
kills her own snakes.The testimonials in this book are nauseating: one of them is a woman is tolerates her husband's drunkenness.
Two examples: To show that your man is more "manly" than you are do some sort of "masculine" thing (like hunting, or fixing a cabinet) badly on purpose so that he can "fix" it for you; eh, if that doesn't bother you fine.
However, I can admire plenty of things that my husband does, and does better than me [lifting heavy objects is one example:].
A second silly suggestion is that you don't wear "masculine" fabrics like denim or corduroy or herringbone.
I say - look like a female.
And frankly, some women look stunning in herringbone and horrible in ruffles.
Swim naked through man of wars than follow the advice in this book and have a marriage like in this book.
Who would want this?People gripe about how bad feminism is, but at least it's not saying men are like babies you have to faun over and worship.
How can you have a healthy relationship based on love and trust if you're stuck married to a man who won't help you with the children, who is encouraged to be selfish and worse of all these folks think that all men are like this.
They are the ones who are really sexist against men.
This book will tell you how to be a perfect 50's housewife. I love it. It makes me cry and vow to be a better wife every time I read even a chapter. A lot of people hate this book (my mom and aunts used to make fun of this book when they were young and found it in my grandma's book shelf), but I think there is a lot that I can learn from it. Don't take this book TOO seriously though or you might get really depressed.
بسم الله الرحمن الرحيملو قررتي تقري كتاب واحد بس عن العلاقة الزوجية و فهم شريك الحياة و ازاي تعيشي ا
I have only read a few small sections, but what I've read is filth and lies. Anything that might have been truth has been twisted around. I feel sorry for anyone who has used this as a guide to femininity. I plan to read the rest for a good laugh, and to tear her ideas apart.
Horrible, awful, dangerous. I hated it. I feel sorry for women that would follow the advices in this book.
I must have thrown the book away, as I could not find it to re-read for a Book group choice.
Many had read the newer "updated" version by the author, who was then in her 80's, it seemed that most of the updates were testimonials and not much had changed her mind in her approach to a wife has the up most duty to serve and please her husband.The best message of the book is that you can feel much happiness in your life if you do actively "get past yourself and your needs" and serve and help others to be happy.
I first heard of this on an episode of Wife Swap and thought the woman following it seemed a bit off. I picked up the book to see if it was as fake and manipulative as it sounded; it was. If you need a guide to becoming a Stepford wife, have ever wondered what book may have been a bestseller to the characters of A Handmaid's Tale, or are looking for something that reaffirms that abusive relationships occur because the behavior of the victim needs to change, this is the book for you.
Terrible book. Following such advice will ruin trust and lead to great unhappiness. For a happy marriage be honest, direct, and loving at all times. This book teaches none of those principles.
