https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/473680.This_Side_of_Glory
You were the center of your own universe and intended to have supremacy in it.'There's something magical and highly compelling about Gwen Barstow's writing.
I delayed reading this last in the Plantation trilogy because, as the most modern, I believed the time period would not interest me as much.
I was slightly disappointed (ba humbug) by the neatly wrapped up ending , but I suppose it was the end of the trilogy after all ...If you've never read any Gwen Barstow and you enjoy historical fiction, you can't go far wrong giving it a try.
Life and people are all equations to her, and everything can be solved by moving ahead, not being sentimental and never wasting time or money on pleasing people.
By force you take what you want, leaving your victim hating you: by tact you take it also, but with your victim happy in the belief they wanted to give it the whole time."I like Eleanor, there's nobody better to get things done than her.
It's one thing being efficient and not clinging to out of date ways, it another to entirely remove them from an ancient home.
Which brings us to the last book in this trilogy - This Side of Glory begins in 1912, as Eleanor Upjohn works as secretary for her father Fred, who despite a poorer birth has made a successful career as a builder of river levees.
She meets plantation owner Kester Larne and it's love at first site - but can they overcome the huge gaps in their two social classes and build a successful marriage?
Eleanor is shocked at the run down condition of the Larne family plantation as well as the huge debts Kester's neglect has incurred.
The last book in plantation triology series. The ending is pleasant, hopeful and lovely. If you adore southern belles like me, you'll love the whole series. Won't disappoint ya .. try them. ❤️
As I have pointed it out in my review of The Handsome Road we should have:interesting historical information which doesn't overload a readera good fictional storyand a philosophical and psychological level.In my opinion, the first point is here weaker than in other books of Bristow.
Why is it that we can’t think of any higher destiny for the people we love than that they become just like ourselves?” So, even then it isn't a easy way.
This novel is a wonderful example of a story about a marriage and through it about being a human.And we should repeat a prayer after Eleanor:Help me to understand people who aren’t like myself.
Eleanor meets and falls in love with Kester Larne, the son of Denis Larne also from “Handsome Road.” The Upjohns had battled from the bottom of Poor White Trash to become a successful family with a prosperous levee building company created by Fred.
The Larnes are a family of old money wealth where Kester was born with the silver spoon in his mouth.
Eleanor and Kester fall passionately in love and get married against the strong objections of both their families.
Blacks are used in the story predominately as compliant happy little sub beings.
Eleanor is left to handle the plantation that is in debt while her husband Kester Larne volunteers to join the army.
From the first story as they dug out a living from the wilderness that was Louisiana, there was the aristocratic landowners, the 'poor white trash', and the slaves.
Eleanor's ancestors came from the poor white trash becoming part of the more well to do working class due to her father's hard work and determination.
Eleanor and Keastor must each grow and change the way they see the world and each other.
Hard to put down, enjoyed all three books in the trilogy although sometimes it skipped a generation between book one and two - maybe nothing much happened to them? Book three was the best.
The marriage of Eleanor Upjohn, Carrie May’s white trash descendant, and Ardeith plantation’s heir, Kester Larne. She tries to save the plantation from debt, just as WWI erupts and cotton prices fall.Learned lots about class with this one.
My favorite authorAnother great book by my favorite author. I just wish I could get her books on audible so I could listen to them over and over when I'm too busy to read.
Und auch wenn Kester Larne ein durchweg sympathischer Geselle ist, es soll sich herausstellen, dass er da nicht ganz Unrecht hat.Der dritte Teil der Louisana-Trilogie vereint die Nachkommen der Familie Sheramy, die einst Lousiana besiedelte, ohne dass die Betroffenen es ahnen.
Man muss es jedoch so hinnehmen, denn es war damals einfach so und wie auch im zweiten Band spielen die Schwarzen auch in diesem Buch nur eine Nebenrolle.(Achtung, kleiner Spoiler)Mit dem Ende dieses Buches schließt sich der Kreis, in den Kindern von Eleanor und Kester haben sich die beiden Zweige der Familie und ihre Eigenschaften und Erfahrungen wiedervereint und auf diesen Menschen baut sich schließlich das moderne Amerika auf.
I didn’t like it as much as the first two; but they were set further back in history in the Civil War era which is an era I really like reading about.
Eleanor represents the New South with an aggressive energy and a love for progress for progress’s sake.
He and his contemporaries rebuilt the area after the Civil War with the same beliefs and traditions of the Old South.
Eleanor disregarded her father’s questions about the advisability of the marriage and married Kester and went to live at his family plantation, Ardeith.
Thus began the constant clash between Eleanor and Kester.
When WWI began, Kester went to war leaving her in charge of the plantation.
The struggle of two young people to overcome years of prejudice taught through generationsThis is the third and final book about two very different families, each strong and resilient in their own way, who survived the terrible reconstruction years of the civil war, that required them both to live day to day in an intense struggle just to put food on the table.
They were typical of young people in love, and though warned by each one's separate families not to marry, they did so anyway.
I think this book might be good for couples to read who recognize the differences in their upbringing might be part of their marital woes.
Kester Larne is the handsome and happy-go-lucky son of Louisiana's oldest aristocracy in the beginning of the twentieth century, and his family is appalled when he brings home as a bride the hard-headed and sensible Elinor from blue-collar river engineers.
A charmed marriage has its first test when the plantation sinks into debt, and Elinor's common sense and hard work link to Kester's brilliant schemes in order to save it.
Kester's flightiness is maddening, but so is Elinor's bulldog stubbornness, and you will root for them both as they fight there way through massive debt, a scheming blonde's plotting, and World War I to a new beginning.
A good end to the Plantation Trilogy.
It is an interesting look at the conflict between the Old South (charm, family, breeding, beauty and a bit of indolence) juxtaposed next to the New South (industry, hard work, the self-made person) as played out through Phillip and Eleanor.
Their marriage is almost torn apart as these internal struggles and the external forces of WWI cause trials.
I liked that in the end they came to really recognize and value each other and see how their differences made their marriage stronger.
Eleanor finally sees that Phillip has a quiet strength she'd never credited.
I remember the Plantation Trilogy as a very good read, and educational.
I read them as a teenager and they still hold up.
I learned two phrases from these books that I still use today:lagniappe and "n----r rich".
Now that's a bad phrase that we are not supposed to say today, but it's relevant: When a man, who is not used to money, gets a windfall, he buys a colorful silk shirt for himself instead of buying shoes for his children.
It's a bumpy road, and both people make big mistakes along the way.The story is dramatic, insightful and educational.HIghly recommended.
One of, if not the best, "plantation" book or series I've ever read.
This was the last book of the trilogy and it was just as good as the first two even if it was quite different.
The two main families; the aristocratic Larne family and the "po white trash" Upjohn clan finally join hands in holy matrimony.
So, Mr. Denis Larne III marries Eleanor Upjohn; the bottom falls out of the cotton market and leaves them no way to pay the notes on their already heavily mortgaged plantation, Ardeith.
Much of the book is about how they confront their debts.
This book concludes a trilogy of books all set in and around plantation life in upriver Louisiana.
This is historical fiction set before, during and after WWI.
The old "easy, relaxed" lifestyle of the plantation owners clashes against the "bright, young, ambitious" upstarts and the two ways have to learn to come together with compromises and appreciation for the other "side" if they are to find a way to live and work together But that, however, is easier said than done.
Old ways die hard and the nouveau riche have clawed their way forward with sheer grit, determination and a strong work ethic.
This last of the Plantation trilogy takes the characters into the first world war. As in all of Bristow's books this was very educational while still telling a good story. It was fascinating to learn how destructive to the South the cotton gin was, in that it required much more labor to plant and pick the larger amount of cotton required once it was no longer combed by hand. Relationships betwwn the races were adversely affected too. This was hard to put down.
I had read both of Gwen Bristow's books in the Plantation Trilogy, and was anxious to read more about the lives of the people introduced there. Instead, we were taken off with the children of the people I wanted to read about. This could have been a wonderful book, but it was not. That's when I gave up on this author.
This is the third novel in the plantation trilogy series. As always this authors writing is a joy to read. Set in the 1920s, it is very reflective of a specific time and place. I learned much as I have with all of Bristows other novels. The characters, storyline and historical detail are masterfully written. I recommend this series as well as all the other of her novels.
This is the final book in the Plantation trilogy. The characters kept apologizing to each other throughout the whole book. It was rather annoying. The granddaughter of Corrie May Upjohn is now married to Denis Larne and living at Ardeith plantation (where Corrie May worked as a seamstress and hated all the rich people). Rather ironic.
This book is the third in the trilogy by Gwen Bristow set in Louisiana. I'm glad I finally figured out the names of these three books. I've been thinking about them for a long time, but couldn't remember the titles or author.I read them when I was in middle school or high school and was into historical fiction/romance.I liked this one and the others a whole lot at the time I read them.
I'm glad I completed this series, but did find this to be the weakest of the three. Was beginning to lose patience with the landed Southerners, who grew increasingly prejudiced and intractable throughout the whole story arc. Find it difficult to believe that could remain so rigid in their ideals after all that they had gone through.
This was by far my favorite of the plantation series novels, you can't help but love such a proud and stubborn heroine. Thankfully this book was less tragic than the first two and fast paced. The trilogy ended nicely with the eventual stabalization of the Great south after world war 1 and before the terrible beginnings of radical hate groups.
Another fine story by Gwen Bristow. I'm sorry to see the end of this trilogy! Excellent storytelling, perfect pace, well-defined characters. The heroine and I shared many personal qualities. It was actually rather insightful.
This Side Of GloryThis book is a very good book about that era when people on plantations and their struggles, both personal and with the crops. You get close to the people and their every day trials.
I loved how this trilogy ended with the Larnes and the UpJohns uniting. I admired Eleanor's strength and ingenuity in saving the plantation. I learned a lot about the trials and tribulations on the home front during World War I.
This is the final book in a trilogy. It was written decades ago and so still has that feel of being a vintage book, but it is full of interesting information about the Southern plantations and how they evolved - as well as the culture that grew up with them. Not great literature, but engaging.
A worthy end to the Plantation Trilogy. I didn't like it quite as much as the first two--I never really warmed up to either Eleanor or Kester--but it was an interesting story nonetheless. I wish Bristow had kept going and shown us Ardeith during WWII!
