https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/199107.Diet_for_a_Small_Planet
This book ruined my childhood. This book made my mom put soy grits in spaghetti sauce, and I'm pretty sure it had something to do with her delivering a lecture on carob to my second grade class, too. But I'll give it this: Walnut cheddar loaf sure makes the planet FEEL small. Because as far as I'm concerned, the planet isn't big enough for the both of us. I hate you, walnut cheddar loaf.
When my mom became a vegetarian in the early 90s, she read Diet For A Small Planet.
I remember thinking, “wah wah wah my mom is such a boring loser moron head.” I pitied her for picking up a book with the words “diet” and “small planet” on it—and a pile of grain, to top it all off.
I love the internet.) And come to think of it, the idea of eating for a small planet is a beautiful thing, isn’t it?
God I was such a loser moron head when I was a kid.
The most important book on Nutrition and Politics I have ever read. If you don't immediately see the relationship, then read this book.
I enjoyed this book when I read it, but I thought it hadn't made a huge impression on me. Looking back, I realize that I became a (lacto-ovo) vegetarian a few years after I read this, and I'm wondering if it had more of an influence than I've ever realized. Highly recommended - probably suggest reading the 20th anniversary edition that's out if you've never read the book, although I have not read that edition.
In the 70's she was skinny and long-haired and had hip-bones like Twiggy and I thought she was the bees knees.
What she said when she loaned me her copy of the book was that meat was very expensive and hard-on-the-planet to produce whereas grains were not.
Because I was ten I thought she was talking about eating grass and that made me sad that we were all going to be relegated to eating grass one day because we had poisoned the planet.What Ms. Lappé said then was that we needed to think about how our food choices were more than just local choices--they were planetary in nature.
Or like selfish little shoppers ?" Still saying profound things forty years later.

It was Frances Moore Lappe's great gift to us to throw out the concept that something called an "entree" must center the dinner table, be it a great sullen lump of animal protein or a substitute like tofurkey.
Instead, she focuses on protein complementarity, the technique of melding vegetable sources with incomplete amino acids into full proteins (for example, corn and legume beans; milk and peanuts).
It's a wonderful way to think, plan, and cook; as a result this wonderful little book has braved the test of time and is now in its fifth decade.
Recipes are good, too.
Bon appetit!
Through various college classes, discussions with friends, and articles I've consumed over the years I've already been exposed to nearly all of the concepts in the book, but that is likely in large part because of the book.
Perhaps the most important lesson stressed by Lappe in the various intros is that the decisions to continue our foolhardy production, aid, and diet patterns are not being made democratically and that a true participatory democracy driven by informed people is the only way to create a sensible and sustainable world food economy.
Even my current reading of The Omnivore's Dilemma is proving to be more engaging, and has much of the same info as Small Planet.
And another thing: no one warned me that Small Planet dips and out of political treatise.
The author is very interested in sharing her findings on modern democracy and her opinions about it, which is appropriate, at least from her stand point, but does get repetitive and is hardly the informational recipe book for vegetarians that I expected.I have not yet tried any of the recipes.
Though many such books exist today, this book was akin to Rachel Carson's "Silent Spring" in that it brought to life an entirely new way of looking at or thinking about food.
It encouraged people to look more deeply, to see that food contains a hell of a lot more than the obvious elements one normally is exposed to.
I read this book after completing my first semester of college, read it late into the night, feeling a new sort of excitement well up as the pages went on.
Almost seven years later, the book remains, for my life, a turning point.
The recipes I have tried from this cookbook actually are made to taste good. Years ago, when this book was new, it was difficult to find some of the ingredients the recipes called for, but it is not much of a problem now; even the local supermarket carries many of the specialty items used in here. There is also a great deal of practical nutrition information.
Read this one a while back and started making soybean loaves. Good ideas, but wow, were some of the original recipes heavy on the stomach. Wonder if they've changed them over the years.
One more from the Steve Jobs' reading list.In some ways this book is dated, in other ways it is a natural prologue for 'omnivore's dilemma' and andrew weil.I do not believe in the word 'diet'.
However, like the word diet, I do not know if hysterical "soylent green and meat is people!!" camera angles and shots can seed into altered lives, or if it will lead to an opposing counterproductive reaction from average, everyday people.
Like how all those "old white guy" and "white people" jokes backfired into a Trump presidency.
The best part of this book for me was not the suggested diet for Americans in particular even though I totally agree that all of us should reduce or even eliminate the meat intake especially beef since the beef production is such a great burden for cattle themselves, environment and human health, but the concept introduced such as “living democracy”.
The version of the book I read is 1991, which was written almost 30 years ago.
So, the point is to take responsibility for our own actions, especially when we talk about what is on our plate.
I'm sort of sad she updated the book from the original because it seemed she was on a more political bent (which is fine) but I wasn't sure how she was connecting this new stuff to the fact that we should eat less meat and have a diet to save the planet.
This just seemed to go against the updated portions of the book as it pretty much made a case for keeping cows on mass farms even though she stated earlier it was a waste of resources.
Good read, but I think rather than updating DfaSP, she could have just written another book, a sequel if you please.
The most powerful messages were: 1) more than 50% of the grain and acreage for producing grain is to feed livestock (makes no damn sense), 2) the US food industry is not designed to feed people, but instead to generate profit for a very small percentage of people, 3) the cost of agriculture is so highly manipulated and arbitrary that is does not reflect the true costs (subsidies, water table loss, soil erosion, importation of non-renewable sources of fertilizer, etc), and 4) a change in the food system requires a democratization of the system.
A lot of new vegetarians today understand that eating low on the food chain is best for the planet, but many do not seem well versed in how to eat vegetarian and get all of their nutrition. Any diet that eliminates food groups can cause vitamin and mineral deficiencies that can lead to health problems. I found "Diet for a Small Planet" good at covering all aspects of vegetarianism. A classic read.
My very first vegetarian cookbook! It's all gotten a lot simpler since then. Ms. Lappe' was all scientific about getting enough of the right proteins as a vegetarian, and these days the experts just tell us to eat a colorful meal, as many colors as you can put on the plate even. For a first book it was inspirational.
I was given the first version by an aunt who was vegetarian and read it cover-to-cover, and later used it as a guidebook for my forays into vegetarianism. I revisited this, the updated version some years after it was published, and still found it useful, not just for the recipes, but for the science and philosophy behind it.Some cookbooks are just for reference. This one is for reading.
I know that's probably what most of you have heard, but even though the author doesn’t eat meat, she repeatedly states that the main problem isn’t meat, or grain-fed meat, or even processed foods (although those last two are certainly not helping our health, environment, or economy; and you’re almost certainly eating too much protein), but how we define democracy, and how we (don’t/can’t) participate in decision-making.
Even reading this book in 2017, I found it life-changing. It was dated only in small ways. I wouldn't normally take a highlighter to a book but this one is quite marked up with sections I want to refer back to and recipes to try. I've tried 3 or 4 so far and they were all keepers.
One of the most influential nutrition books of the 20th century. Despite the debunked notion of "complementary proteins," Frances Moore Lappé's discoveries about the Earth's capacity to feed itself and the use of so much of our farmland to feed animals, not people, are still trenchant.
Excellent starting point, but at this time even the updated version is a bit dated.
Good info but I am not the target audience for this book. Going to pass it along.
I read in 1997. Inspired me to stop eating meat. I've been a vegetarian ever-since. Compelling and has almost nothing to do with cruelty or long eyelashes.
. Development must be the process of moving toward genuine democracy .
Just as "development" must be redefined to encompass the concept of power, so must "freedom." For what is freedom without power?
Its essence is eternal struggle." Thus, every society is is in a process of change and must be judged by the direction in which it is moving -- toward a more just distribution of power or toward more and more tightly held power.
. [M]ovement toward genuine democracy can happen only when ordinary people realize that they have both the right and the capacity to help make important political and economic decisions in their society.
I found it to be probably the most comprehensive book about food politics that I've read.
She makes the connection between today's farming and food production systems and global capitalism.
These are all important connections to make that many authors overlook.What I found most amazing about this book is how accurate it still is 20 years after it was written, and I read the 20th anniversary edition.
That said, the recipes are probably still a good resource for people looking to eliminate meat from their diets.
This book should be noted for its influence on current public knowledge on how protein comes from the majority of foods and not just animal products.
I am a vegan and I frequently recommend this book to people who critique me on how I am starving my body of protein by only eating plants.
I wish this book had included more vegan recipes, as well as more tables on the amino acid structures of proteins (though it has numerous useful tables).
Additionally some topics on the conversion rates of feed to livestock and some insight on the horrible conditions found in animal factories would have been beneficial.
Today's food poisoning crises in various avenues of food production would seem to indicate that not a lot has.
The laws seem to be there to protect the big producers not the consumers.
The book is full of important information about the way our food is produced and new products are developed, and the hazards of the methods used.
The recipes didn't interest me very much, though, as they seemed full of "exotic" ingredients that require a lot of petroleum consumption to get them to my corner of the world.
My copy is the 20th Anniversary Edition of 1991 – so it doesn’t present the latest nutritional breakthroughs on vegetarianism.
Frances Moore Lappé makes a very strong case for a low or nonmeat diet primarily based on sociological, economical, environmental and political considerations I first read this book many years ago and it made a huge impression on me.
Yet, rereading it recently I am appalled to note that Ms Lappé doesn’t even touch the topic of the treatment of animals in industrial food production.
Also, it now strikes me as overly simplistic to blame Third-World hunger overwhelmingly on the huge multinational corporations.Having said that, I still highly recommend this book.
