https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8574.Whip_Hand
The protagonists in Dick Francis novels rarely ever made repeat appearances, but one of the exceptions is Sid Halley who we see for the second time in Whip Hand.
Halley is a former jockey whose career was ended when a horse rolled over on him, crushing his left hand.
The hand was ultimately amputated and he now has a prosthesis.
As usual, Francis spins an entertaining tale and this book will appeal to his loyal readers and to others who might find a mystery set in the English racing world intriguing.
This is my first Dick Francis read and I read it because he was my Father's favourite author for a long time and sadly I lost my Father, after a lengthy battle with cancer, just a couple of weeks ago.
Most of you will be aware that Dick was once a steeplechase jockey in England who moved on to become the author of many crime novels centred on the racing industry.
Dick Francis will always be a name in the crime writing realm just like Agatha, many books he wrote over a distinguished career so perhaps this one wasn't the best one to start with.
In his first novel (Odds Against), he is trying to deal with the trauma, and to find a new purpose in life by joining a private investigation agency focusing on the racing world.
In the beginning of this second novel, Sid is still investigating crooks and liars around the racetrack, is self-employed, and rather too well appreciated for his success.
This fame and his rate of success translates in the bad guys trying to drive him out by threats and physical violence.As you can see from my opening quote, the thriller is written in the first person narrative, and a liking for the protagonist is key to the enjoyment of the ride.
My first Dick Francis read and it was great!
Not all that fond of books set abroad but didn't know that when I began reading.
Can say though that it didn't bother or annoy me at all that it was set in England.
Actually learned much about England by reading the book.
Dick Francis, from what I've read, had no training in writing but he was a jockey so he knows his subject.
Look forward to reading Francis for many years and hoping the last book I read of his is only one-half as good as this was.
As I think about all of his books (yes, this review covers all of his books, and yes I've read them all) I think about a moral ethical hero, steeped in intelligence and goodness embroiled in evil machinations within British horse racing society - either directly or indirectly.
The heroes aren't always horse jockies, they can be film producers, or involve heroes engaged in peripheral professions that somehow always touch the horse racing world.But more than that, Francis's heroes are rational human beings.
The hero's thoughts reveal a vulnerability that is touching, while his actions are always based on doing the right thing to achieve justice.
I don’t know how old I was when I started reading what would be considered adult fiction but Dick Francis was one of the first authors I really latched onto.
Sid Halley remains the only Dick Francis character to appear in more than two books, and Whip Hand is one of just two novels to win the Gold Dagger and Edgar Award.
I assumed that had to be the end for Sid Halley too but he was resurrected in 2013 when Felix Francis released Dick Francis’s Refusal.
Like all the other Sid Halley novels, it’s definitely worth reading.
The second Sid Halley book, read many years after the first, brilliant book. Retired jockey with an artificial electronic hand, turned private investigator, faces three tough plots at the same time, two of them including physical violence and intimidation.
Francis has a knack for involving horse racing in his stories, but many, if not most of the stories also included some details about a job, a hobby, technology, business operations, or some other aspect outside of racing that is key to the story.
Since Francis seems to always include at least two non-racing themes, I suspect the other non-racing aspect of this book, and it’s a big part of the story, is our protagonist Sid Halley talking about his disability and new threats to cause additional disability.
This book also has some violence and threats, which Francis includes in many of his stories, and which I find disturbing.
Dick Francis is a sadly-missed favorite author, especially his knack for snappy relevant titles, and fascinating a non-horse reader (me). Hero Sid loses the use of his hand in the series, at least once a villain tortures him in his weakest limb. Ouch. I still get the shivers remembering.
Whip Hand was the second book by Dick Francis to win the prestigious Edgar award -- he is still the only author to ever win three Edgars for mystery novels -- and I think it's a pretty terrific entry in his series.
In a way it's a novel of self-discovery, as Sid learns that he really can live through his worst fears, and as he and his ex-wife both learn to move past their old pains.The plot in Whip Hand is also more complicated than in many Francis novels, since Sid is actually solving not one but three separate mysteries in the course of the book.
After what seemed like a zillion international thrillers all in a row, it was fun to read Dick Francis's series book, WHIP HAND, and to know that there are three more books in the Sid Halley series for me to enjoy.WHIP HAND is the series' second book, continuing the story of Sid Halley, an ex-jockey turned PI with an artificial left hand.
By the end of the book, Halley has not only solved all the mysteries, but has learned a good deal about himself.WHIP HAND is told in the first person by Halley.
Well, hello. I'd always avoided Francis, thinking his books would be too "niche." How interesting could a mystery set at a racetrack be? I was incredibly wrong. Great characters, good dialogue, excellent sense of place - this book worked on just about every level. One good thing about avoiding Francis for this long - I can look forward to many enjoyable hours of reading ahead.
I am being kind giving it 2 stars. Really wanted to like it. If you are into horse racing (I am) its not the worst book ever, if you are not then avoid it.
He's returned to life after the depression of the first book, but has to face his own weakness when his nemesis threatens him with his worst fears.Francis's use of Halley as a recurring character has a number of fascinating aspects, one of which is that the Sid Halley books were not written back to back--unlike the books about the other recurring character, Kit Fielding, which were written consecutively and both set in the same time period, the early 1980s--but rather in different decades: "Odds Against" came out in the 1960s, "Whip Hand" in the 1970s, "Come to Grief" in the 1990s, and "Under Orders" in the 2000s.
This is my favorite of the Francis novels I've read, and probably the best mystery novel I've read this year.Sid Halley, who retired from racing to become an investigator after losing most of his left hand, is a fantastic lead, with all of the intellect and dry humor of the average Francis hero but a great deal of pathos and insecurity, as well.
The supporting characters are also great creations, especially Chico, Halley's partner, and the Admiral, his friend and former father-in-law.This book has a great setup, as several smaller mysteries resolve into one central plot and one, more personal, subplot.
Interesting look into the world of horse racing. Good mystery.
Keating said on the NBC, when he reviewed Whip Hand:I suppose if I actually had to choose one book of the year; but you can't really -- If I had to, though, I would go for a straight thriller -- Dick Francis' Whip Hand.
A book about a person, about human qualities, couraage, or integrity or whatever, and admitting the possibility of your hero not going through with it.
Magnificent.If you are tired of seeing certain words in print and afraid some of these words will eventually erupt in your speech if you see them in print again, cleanse yourself with really good writing by reading anything by Dick Francis.
I can't believe it's taken me so long to get around to reading a Dick Francis novel.
I picked up this book at random in a charity shop, so with no prior knowledge find it's the second in a short series featuring Sid Halley, one time champion jockey who lost his hand and now investigates cases associated with the world of racing.
Sid's a totally believable character, hard on the outside but soft in the middle with a surprising vulnerability.
The book is exciting, visceral and a fast, enjoyable read.
I put in my last review of a book from the Sid Halley series that this character could be infuriating.
This book has a gripping story of multiple strands, but the main narrator is carrying chips on both shoulders the size of planks, which makes the whole experience of this book rather uncomfortable and at times I find myself really wanting to shake him, to put it mildly.
Sid Halley's way is to lock everything up inside, not to let anyone in, even those closest to him, and to let relationships crash and burn rather than admit to being human.
This is the second book in the Sid Halley series and I enjoyed it even more than the first. I always had reservations about reading Dick Francis, since I am not that familiar with horse racing. However, that is not an issue with his books. The plot and the characters hold my attention. His portrayal of relationships and emotions is very well done.The next book in this series was written decades later, so I am interested to see if it picks up in the same time period.I am glad I finally started reading this author.
1 Jan 19851 Jan 199814 Dec 2000Another reread.
Not one of my favorites.
This one was written in '65 back when Dick was trying to be so hard boiled.
I like the character of Sid and his father-in-law Charles, but everything else is so grim and no so psychological.
It's okay to while away time but not something to pick up just for a good read.
I have a harder time relating to Sid than most of the later heroes.
The way he reacts to his disfigurement is odd, as is the way he just lets his marriage go.
Call me goofy, but this guy's name makes me laugh!Can't wait to read this!
Dick Francis wrote a lifetime's worth of entertaining, suspenseful novels. He set the bar high every time. This is his best book.

This is at least the second time I've read this story - second of the three novels about ex-jockey Sid Halley, who has a gift for finding out things others would prefer remained undiscovered. Sid is a human, relatable character, and it is a pleasure to renew his acquaintance. If you haven't read Dick Francis before, feel free to start here - it's a stand-alone novel - and enjoy.
Dick Francis writes exciting fiction usually focusing on the world of horse racing. In this one, the main character, Sid Halley, is a former top jockey who is now a private investigator. The situations he gets asked to look into involve betting scams and crooked officials.
I know nothing about horses and detest the racing industry. Of course, it makes perfect sense that I enjoy the work of Dick Francis. Always filled with creative scenarios and interesting settings, he's a great exponent of crime writing.
Sid Halley rides again! Well, just for one gallop, but I believe this book features his first ride since he lost his (whip) hand and took up sleuthing. His sleuthing leads him to look in places best left alone, as usual.
This is a very well done crime thriller, but I agree with those who find the protagonist annoying.
It was fun reading a detective story after a long time, I thoroughly enjoyed this one.Recommended for thriller and detective genre lovers.Happy Reading.
