https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1123579.Last_Stand_at_Papago_Wells
Ok...this was my 2nd L'amour book and at first I was disappointed.
He seemed to be introducing way too many characters for such a short book and it seemed like I was reading a completely different writer.
But then the truth of the story hit me, it clicked and I loved it!This is like a Western-Horror.
You are surrounded by Apache Indians who want to kill you...and, there are even the greedy bastards you are trapped with that also want to kill you.Don't sleepLosing waterFood supplies running outDeath around every corner...can you survive?Thank God Logan Cates is trapped with you!This is a horrific old western tale of survival and it was great!4 stars!
At that point it becomes a matter of searching for water in the desert and staying away from the Indians, and at times, each other.What I didn't like was that this book is 136 pages but I felt it could have been 75 and told the story just as well.
I felt the main characters were pretty wooden, or cookie-cutter, and the love interest angle wasn't that convincing.It's a simple stand-alone western and it gets the job done, which I believe is mainly to wile away the day without getting into too much trouble, are having to deal with too much accosting from the wife.
L'Amour always writes a good western. The collection of people coming together (at Papago Wells) allowed readers to see how L'Amour let's each one's backstory foreshadow how they'd react when pushed hard--between the Indians and the lack of food--they're pushed hard.
So my four star rating is in (large?) part due to nostalgia.Last Stand at Papago Wells is one of my favorites because L'Amour deviates slightly from the Western pulp formula.
The Indians are props rather than real characters, not unlike the inquisitors in Poe's "The Pit and the Pendulum," which Papago Wells bears some resemblance to in terms of confinement, tightening space, and desperation resolved through a completely unrealistic deus ex machina.
Naturally the story has to ultimately finish in classic pulp Western fashion, but its subversion and containment is interesting to me.
(Actual rating: 4.5)After soaking up the brilliance that is To Tame A Land, the first L'Amour novel I ever read, I was a bit leery of reading another of his books (though I've always enjoyed his short stories) because I was afraid it would fall short.
I would say that Last Stand is almost as good as TTAL, if not just as good.
Brilliant story, great characters (villains and heroes alike), and marvelous tension throughout.
(Different name - Apache Territory - but it's definitely an adaption of Last Stand.
WOOT.)Anyway, if you're a fan of westerns, read this book!
I am reading through Louis L'Amour's novels in chronological sequence.
He wrote 92 novels.
This is my 16th one completed.
I love L'Amour's writing.
You can tell that he had life experience as a cowboy.
But this one was not one of my favorite.
It was a very different plot and style, which was refreshing, but he had too many characters with too much going on and too few pages to make it all work.
The ending felt contrived and way too short.
But it was still a Louis L'Amour western, so I enjoyed it.
Louis L'Amour, like Brian Jacques and P. G. Wodehouse, tends to tell the same story over and over again, with several stock convolutions. This tends to bother some people. I think it would bother me, if it weren't for the fact that the one story he tells is such a stinking good one, the kind of story you want to hear over and over and over again (the same thing goes for Mr. Jacques and Mr. Wodehouse).This book is no exception.
Several groups of people of people, including hostile Apaches, converge on Papago Wells In the Arizona dessert. Soon the whites are fighting among themselves as well as with the Apache. As bodies start to fall, a treasure of gold is exposed in the possession of one of the band. Another exciting western by L'Amour.
Very enjoyable. Disparate groups of travelers meet at a waterhole, pursued by Apaches. The character of each of the defenders is tried to the limit as they learn that the deadliest enemies are each other.
One of the best Louis L'Amours that I've read in a long time. He may be old-school but this is fiction that's easy to read, doesn't cause nightmares, and will make you grateful for this country we live in.
Our senses are fragile things, dainty things, occasionally trustworthy, yet always demanding of perspective. Our senses need horizons, they need gauges, they need rules by which to apply themselves, and in the sand storm there is no horizon and there are no rules. Logan Cates knew it was coming.
Written in 1957, this is a classic western that contains all the trademarks of L'Amour's craft--- classic western story, interesting characters, and fantastic description. Like any of his books, a good read for fans of the genre.
Last Stand at Papago Wells is one of L'Amour's better westerns. The plot and characters are believable. The reaction of the various characters to the stress and fear is believable. Everything goes fine until the last couple of pages and then it becomes predictable with the guy getting the girl and then living happily ever after.All and all an interesting book.
This was an exciting book as various groups of people gathered at the only watering hole in hopes of outliving the attacking Apache. All sorts of personalities and values have to work together to ensure success.
This book is full of tough things and tough people, but the good ones stand out. It was hard for me to get into it at the first - there were so many people to keep straight, but I liked it by the end.
A cast of Western characters have to band together at a watering hole in the middle of an Arizona desert. It was a quick and very entertaining read....plenty of twists and actions for a short book. Mr L'Amour is tops in Western writings.
A good western as a group of wildly divergent characters are surrounded by Apaches at Papago Wells. They fight among themselves almost as much as they fight the Apaches. Some very good plot twists keep the interest at a high level. Recommended to western fans.
I thought this one was a little stilted.
3.5 stars. Different from the other Louis L’Amour books I have read
It was good.
Great BookI don't care how others think about this book, I believe this is a great book and I enjoyed it.
i liked it.
This is L'Amour's 11th book and one of three published in 1957.Several groups of strangers all converge on a rare watering hole in Southwestern Arizona trying to elude an Apache raiding party.
After arriving at the water holes, Papago Wells, the group quickly finds themselves surrounded by the Apaches and have to put aside their differences and mistrust of one another in order to try and make a last stand for survival.Another great L'Amour story filled with action and adventure and makes for a quick easy read at a little over 150 pages.
Several small groups are drawn to Papago Wells because it has the only water within 20 miles and the Arizona desert heat is relentless.
Hardcase Logan Cates becomes the de facto leader although he is challenged by several others.Western - Logan Cates knew the many ways the Arizona desert could kill a man.
Above all, he knew a man needed water to survive.
Cates rode to Papago Wells a few miles ahead of an Apache war party led by the vicious Churupati.
There he met a dozen desert wanderers whom chance had led to the only water between Yuma and hell.
This was a pretty good historical fiction genre novel, telling a story of a group of civilians and soldiers trapped at a water source in the desert, with a group of Apache warriors penning them in and picking them off one by one.
The characters are pretty realistic, and while I dislike how they treat Jennifer, one of the trapped women, as if she is a parcel to be grabbed, rather than a person who has a say as to what man she marries and what sort of life she wants.
So I got my Louis L'Amour fix this week and this one certainly fulfilled its purpose: a nice quick read between more "serious" reading commitments.Lots of characters in this one, so many that none were very well fleshed out but regardless, I quite enjoyed the story.
It's actually pretty amazing how much L'Amour can pack into one small book like this but you can find many of the stereotypical western clichés here including the quiet, aloof stranger that has a need to protect folks that just don't know any better.
There's also hotshot wannabes, greedy gold snatchers, romance, and a very good Indian battle that runs throughout the novel.
I've read nearly forty of L'Amour's books, most of which are westerns.
This book had some of those ingredients, however, took a highly diverse group of people that met by chance at a waterhole in the Arizona desert at which they were forced to defend themselves against the perils of the frontier of the late 1800's.
L'Amour's views of people and life are traditional and simplistic, probably much as they were back in this time period.
His main gift, in my opinion is bringing the land and it's beauty to life.
Another great book*Spoiler Alert* When I started to read this book and all the characters were being ng introduced, I was pretty sure this would be an intense situation before the book ended.
I was hopeful for a lower body count, some you may feel the world was better off without and others generate a loss like feeling.
Nevertheless I am positive that situations like this were happening as the west was settled.
Very fast read.
Louis L'amour's westerns stand in stark contrast with those by Robert B.
This one follows the familiar plot of a brave, loner drifter who helps a group of strangers in trouble.
Among the group is a beautiful rich girl running away from rich father because she's in love with a no-good, good looking guy.
During the conflict that follows, girl comes to her senses and chooses the brave hero.
Rich father arrives when the conflict is over, takes one look at the prospective son-in-law and decides this one is much better than the first.
Girl and hero live happily ever after, (I assume).
For such a thin volume it has a complex cast of characters with several plot lines running through. I think it is well done and the lines are easy to follow though others who are not familiar with L'Amour's philosophies may have a harder time. This book was written after L'Amour had matured his style and has many of the themes that repeat throughout his work - self-reliance, strong moral code, patience, the beauty of the wild lands, the unforgiving nature - are fully developed. This is certainly recommended but not as your first L'Amour.
