https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/322662.Dance_of_the_Happy_Shades
Intro (this piece inspired the title story): http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0BN7TG...Does anyone remember Steve’s review of Lydia Davis’s “Collected Stories” when he said “Lydia Davis shits out tiny nuggets of pure golden prose and says 'oh, this old thing’'?”I didn’t exactly agree with him on the Lydia Davis front, but I would love to steal that quote and use it in reference to Alice Munro.Alice Munro is a master story teller.
Alice Munro has been touted as the greatest living short story writer.If not for the words containing a superfluous ‘u’ here and there (colourful, flavourful), I would have been convinced Munro was writing about the American south.
The literary artist, on the other hand, uses people we all know, situations which are familiar to us and places we know or remember.”In this collection, Alice Munro does an amazing job of telling stories of ordinary people in ordinary situations who seem very real and often remind you of someone you know - family, friends, even yourself.
Unfortunately, the landlord constantly pesters her creating more frustration and annoyance than she would have experienced at home.An Ounce of Cure is a story about a young babysitter who is left in charge of sleeping children while the parents and their friends go out for the night.
With other authors this doesn’t work, it seems, breathing so much between the stories, but with Munro it is the only way I can steal away enough determination to make it through her work.
You could name nearly every single story in this collection and recommend it as a stellar example in the art of crafting and shaping literature.Unfortunately, Munro has retired from writing, and so I don’t anticipate receiving any more of her wisdom in the coming years, and I wonder if she will allow her family to release the unreleased after she passes.
Nelle pagine di questa raccolta di racconti, la prima scritta dall'autrice e uscita nel 1968, vi sono immagini,sentimenti, luoghi e situazioni che fanno parte del corollario della Munro.
Sono racconti che parlano di noi, al nostro io, alla parte più intima e vera di ciascuno di noi, al nostro profondo svelandosi e svelandoci.
L'ultimo racconto "Danza delle ombre felici" che dà il titolo alla raccolta lascia amarezza, ma anche bellezza in chi si accinge a leggere queste pagine dense e piene di significato che raccontano chi siamo sotto ogni punto di vista.
excellent writing and usually with interesting plots and eventual outcomes. The main downside for me is that I was never able to really identify with any of the different characters or feel something for them. I felt a little bit remote.
They draw much on her childhood and youth, growing up in a hard-scrabble kind of poverty in rural Ontario, in rooms with a square of linoleum and views of sun-blasted fields outside the window.She seems to have arrived in the world as a fully-fledged writer: it is the deceptive simplicity of her writing that betrays an incomparable talent.
These stories are, perhaps, a little straighter, a little less subtle than her later work, but her flinty wisdom transforms the mundane world of knives and forks, and turns the everyday into the wonder of a moment of revelation, and the soaring power that can come with understanding.
I’m going to pick out three stories that I think illustrate both Munro’s gift for observation and her ability to reveal the petty snobberies of small town life.In ‘Walker Brothers Cowboy’, Munro brilliantly conjures up the atmosphere of the small town where the narrator lives.‘Then my father and I walk gradually down a long shabby, sort of street, with Silverwoods Ice Cream signs standing on the sidewalk, outside tiny, lighted stores…The street is shaded, in some places, by maple trees whose roots have cracked and heaved the sidewalk and spread out like crocodiles into the bare yards.
يمكن هنا رؤية الخطوات الأولى التي اتخذتها باتجاه اقتناص اللحظات الانسانية الفاصلة في الحياة وتدوينها في قصة، لكنها هنا تركز أكثر فيما بدا لي على الوصف الخارجي للمشهد (عوضا عن العمق في الشخصيات في قصصها اللاحقة)، وعلى فترات زمنية قصيرة.
القصص أيضا بدت أقصر من قصصها اللاحقة، وتميزت بقفلة خاتمة في معظمها.أكثر القصص التي أحببتها في هذه المجموعة: المكتب (امرأة كاتبة تحاول الحصول على عزلة للكتابة)، العلاج، وقت الموت (مرعبة في الاقتراب من حادث موت طفل)، صبيان وبنات (النمطية التي تحكم تربية البنات)، بطاقة بريدية (الخذلان والغضب المكبوت حين ينفجر)، فستان أحمر (تبدو مواصلة لصبيان وبنات، مقاربة جديدة للنمطية في رسم أحلام البنات)، سلام أوترخت (وطأة الواجب تجاه آخر).
L'occhio nel cieloAmo il realismo col quale Alice Munro racconta le sue storie e condivide con noi incontri, fantasie, emozioni.
Questa è la sua prima raccolta di racconti e alcune storie sono meno sviluppate rispetto a quanto si troverà in opere successive.
Riesce a scrivere cose terribili, senza alcun compiacimento: soltanto perché esisterebbero, anche se non venissero scritte.
E’ bellissimo il racconto in cui papà e bambina scendono per un pendio e la bambina vede giungere qualcosa che, è sicura, esisteva da sempre nel loro destino e non riesce a formulare una parola per modificare il corso degli eventi.
مقتطفات من حياة أشخاص اعتياديين، تجد نفسك أحيانا ضمن الشخصيات أو تجد أشخاصا مررت بهم في هذه الحياة ضمن شخصيات قصص أليس مونرو.هناك الكثير من الوصف، أكثر بقليل مما يحتمله ذوقي. ومع ذلك هناك عدد من القصص التي أظن أنها ستبقى مضيئة في ذاكرتي لوقت طويل.
وده واضح تمامًا في قصتين من أجمل قصص المجموعة هما: (صبيان وبنات)، اللي بتحكي عن فتاة صغيرة تفتح البوابة لفرسة تهرب من ذبح رغم تيقنها من أن جزاريها هيلاقوها في النهاية وان مفيش مفر؛ و(منازل مضيئة) حيث امرأة ترفض التوقيع على عريضة كتبها الجيران لطرد جارة قديمة غير محبوبة أصبح مستواها الاجتماعي ومنزلها المتداعي لا يناسب الحي بعدما جرى تطويره وأصبح حيًّا راقيًّا، وتعجز عن إيجاد أسباب منطقية تقنعهم غير حجج "العشرة" وأنهم "لا يملكون هذا الحق" وغيرها من الأسباب الرومانسية الواهية من منظورهم.
Era da quando avevo letto “La vista da Castle Rock” (allora uscito da poco) che non leggevo racconti di Alice Munro.
Eppure mi erano piaciuti molto, e fin da allora mi ripromettevo di leggerne altre raccolte.
Promessa rinnovata con maggiore convinzione anche dopo il Nobel.Solo adesso riesco a farlo e proprio con questo suo libro di esordio.
Che conferma tutto il bene che potevo dire già da allora e la mia convinzione che la Munro è una grandissima maestra nell’arte del racconto (sicuramente tra il meglio che ci possano offrire gli scrittori viventi).
E che lo era già quando cominciò a scrivere e pubblicare.
أليس مونرو الكاتبة الكندية التي لم يسبق لي قراءة مجموعاتها القصصية و أعتقد الترشيح الذي جاء من قبل " عصبة القراءة " كان موفقاً في معرفة أليس مونرو ومعرفة نوع ماتكتبه." رقصة الظلال السعيدة " المجموعة القصصية التي جاءت بسلاسة اللغة وعمقها في المضمون مخترقة النفس البشرية بتفاصيل بسيطة وبالغة في الأثر. مستقطعة جزءاً من شريط الذاكرة لدينا بحكايات ومواقف قد تكون حدثت لدينا ومروية بلسان الآخرين. أكثر القصص التي أحببتها ( المكتب ) و ( العلاج ) و ( وقت الموت ).
ختام هذا العام مع اليس مونرو في مجموعتها القصصية رقصة الظلال السعيدة بأسلوب مغاير عن المعتاد وهي بصم
Primi racconti di Alice Munro: poi è migliorata, ma era già brava allora, nel lontano 1968.
[rating = A-]One of my: Best Books of the Year (for 2017)Alice Munro is the best short story writer because she can take the most basic of lives and expose the subtle and underlying factors of it, making it interesting and at once realistic (very much like Anne Tyler at her best).
I love how Munro hints at or furthers another story in the collection, yet at the same time keeping it individual and independent.
A great collection of hate and power, love and injustice, guilt and ignorance, aging and living.
My teacher suggested Munro because he though I could identify with her particular writing style.
Alice Munro is a brilliant writer, a fact I believe can be affirmed by the end of the titular story, Dance of the Happy Shades.
Her stories and the characters within them have the uncanny ability to demand and hold your attention.
I found (most prominently with the last story) that these stories are capable of manipulating one's consciousness as a reader; I think Munro, aside from her superb style, knows the mind of the reader inside-out--and she capitalizes expertly on that understanding.
I felt a certain shame as a Canadian reader having never read any of Alice Munro's stories.
Fortunately there's work like "Dance of the Happy Shades", a book that by all means should be boring but is captivating due to Munro's incredible ability to transform the mundane Canadian countryside into a beautiful portrait.
I always feel short stories are best when they can fully create a world in a short period of time.
The stories here are no exception, and they are all given life through Munro's attention to detail, and the minor actions and feelings characters exhibit that might be lost to other writers.
Alice Munro has written many collections of short stories, and her writing has fascinated me for years. This collection doesn't disappoint, and I'd recommend it for those of you who enjoy short stories that, although understated, evoke emotions in the reader and make you think. Wonderful stories!
5 fucking stars my God. What a fantastic collection of stories.
Звичайних людей і, якщо взяти загалом, звичайні події вона описує так, що помічаєш глибинні речі, які усім цим керують: непрості стосунки матері-доньки, прагнення вирватися з-під гніту найстаршої жінки родини (і неможливість це зробити), дивацтва старих людей і (не)терпимість до них.Юні дівчата з оповідань Манро вчаться приймати своє єство і своє «покликання», змирятися з тим, щоб «бути дівчинкою» (навіть якщо це значить відмовитися від допомоги татові, роботи, яка тобі так подобається, і перейти в кухонне царство з ненависим прибиранням і готуванням), вчитися відчувати радість від першого-танцю-з-хлопчиком (навіть якщо хлопчик геть несимпатичний, зате це новий ступінь у статусі!), берегти таємниці дорослих і тримати голову високо, навіть коли тобі дуже зле.
*3.5
I fell hopelessly in love with Alice Munro!I find it hard to review short stories because they are some you love and adore that you can read over and over again but also some you dislike.
And I still think: "Why didn't we read Alice Munro if she's a Canadian nobel prize winner?"Her stories are all set in Canada, landscapes and houses are always described, and you get a glimpse of the Canadian life style.
(But this is what I love about short stories all the time, the small cutting out of a person's life that you get).Moreover, I liked the subject of growing-up.
Really feel something and I think this is my main problem with short stories.
I don't think I've ever really learned to be satisfied with short stories, or maybe I haven't learned how to read them.
A short story can be beautifully crafted and the characters and their lives may be vividly brought to life within twenty or thirty pages, but I move on to another story, and perhaps because I haven't lived long enough with the characters and their stories, I simply forget.
Not that I don't forget a novel, it's just that I've forgotten almost every short story I've ever read.
Maybe short stories beg to be read over and over.
La prima raccolta di racconti di Alice Munro (1968) ed era già chiaro a partire da lì.Sono tutti, se non bellissimi, quasi, ma lo stesso segnalo tra i migliori episodi: “Il cowboy della Walzer Brothers”, “Maschi e femmine” e “La pace di Utrecht”.http://www.subliminalpop.com/?p=8357
This collection, to me, is a stroke of humanitarian genius.
I don't mean to say "humanitarian" in any benevolent sense, rather that the stories, characters and settings are so deeply human.
Lifelike seems the wrong word.
Lifelike minus the "like"?
For it is life I think, through words - that we readers breathe, feel and know at the bottom of us.
As someone who writes herself, this collection strikes me as such a huge achievement, I cannot even begin to imagine how one could accomplish it.
I didn't like all the stories equally, but how could I of course?
رقصة الظلال السعيدة مجموعة قصصية لـ أليس مونرو الحائزة على جائزة نوبل للآداب هذه المجموعة القصصية خفيفة ولطيفة وظريفة تدور مابين المزارع والغابات والطبيعة الجميلة قصص عن الحب والأخوة والصداقة والعلاقات الاسرية الشائكة والالتزامات الخانقة والبحث عن الذاتلابد وأنك ستجد شيئا ما يشبهك فيها أو ربما يشبه شخصا قابلته في مكان ما عن نفسي وجدت الكثير مني في شخصية الكاتبة في قصة المكتب هناك مشاهد قد تكون اعتيادية ولكنها مرسومة بعناية وبلغة سلسة وانسيابية ستدخلك إلى عالمها من خلال تفاصيلها الصغيرة استمتعت كثيرا بقراءتها اثناء رحلتي القصيرة للمدينة المنورة
Alice Munro is one of my favorite authors.
Over her entire career she has deftly written about the lives of ordinary girls and women - their experiences, their challenges, their dreams.
She is so worthy of the Nobel Prize for Literature, which she won in 2013.This is Munro's first published book, and like most of the others, it is a book of short stories.
It is just as beautifully written as her later ones, and shows her early power of storytelling.
In this volume, which won the Canadian Governor General's Prize in 1968, each story is a gem.
She is truly astounding. There wasn't a dud in here and many times I would have to reread sentences because they packed so much insight into human behavior into one line that you can barely absorb it. Each of her stories feels like it contains every bit as much as other great authors fit into 500 page books. She doesn't waste a word.
And this combination of laid back, introverted sentences interspersed with jolting emotional outbursts is what makes her works stand out.Munro is patient, and she asks you to dance to her tune.
It is a rather effortless attempt.She is not a feminist writer, but I was pleasantly surprised to find it an underpinning theme of some stories in 'Dance of the Happy Shades.' 'The Office,' for instance, is the best short story I've read this year, not to mention 'Boys and Girls' that beautifully portrays a young woman's confusion and outrage surrounding the word 'girl' that, according to her, is derogatory.
