https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5369.The_Amber_Room
Too damn easy."-How much needless, random sex do you need in a book?-Every cliche possible is used - my favorite: The greedy American treasure hunter is named McCoy and calls women "little lady".
Or even in shorter exposition!-The female protagonist is "feisty", and her Russian, widowed father lovingly says that "she's just like her mother".
Every character makes the stupidest decisions you can possibly imagine, and there is scarcely a character to even like, let alone care about.
I have one word that sums up my feelings for this book, and unfortunately, 90% of The Amber Room's dialogue content: "Hardly." Defined:1.Only just; almost not; barely: We had hardly reached the lake when it started raining.
with little likelihood: He will hardly come now.
A few samples:"They didn't have forklifts?""Hardly."She motioned to the art.
"Garden?""Hardly.""Sounds like you're developing a heart, Christian."...
Well, sometimes that sad old stereotype that mothers take care of their kids, and don't run off to certain death in Stod at a moment's notice over a hunk of rock, may just ring truer than breaking it.I like fun, globe-trotting adventure stories.
While the concept of recovering lost art treasures that were looted by the Nazis in WWII is a fascinating one, and the historical info about the actual Amber Room is also quite interesting, the author just can't put it all together into a compelling story.
One of the biggest problems is that the protagonists just aren't likable, and it doesn't help that by far the most interesting character in the book (Karol Borya) is killed off very early.
Overall I give the author credit for the concept and for making a valiant attempt at an exciting novel.
Published: 2007Author: Steve BerryRecommended for: fans of mystery and history fictionThis book caught my attention straight away from the cover to the first paragraph.
it was a joy to read it.
It was fast paced and kept you guessing as to what was going to happen next.
I wouldnt say any of it was predictable it had alot of twist and turns in it.
I would recommend it for anyone who likes adventure stories and who has an interest in history.
It doesnt skimp on the description, it paints a very good picture in the imagination and makes you feel like your their seeing everything happen.
with such a fascinating (and real) historical subject, it's hard to put into words just how horrifyingly awful berry's execution of this story is. i noted that a lot of people like this. gave it 4 stars even. how is this possible?i am tempted though, to read more of berry's work. it's almost inspiring. you too, people of the world, can write. and apparently become a best seller.
I didn't much like DaVinci Code, but since I met Steve Berry and liked what he had to say about writing, I thought I'd give this one a try. I may now be in love with the genre. It combines what I love about historical fiction--history lessons--with another area of learning--learning about art--and Berry's novel is a much better, more satisfying read than Dan Brown's.
A good concept but a weak plot. Couldn't like any of the characters. And too much of swearing really put me off!
I chose the book because I have been following Steve Berry's Cotton Malone series, and I wanted to see what's going to be my reaction to his stand-alone novels.
My only complaint are the illogical actions of Judge Cutler and her ex-husband, Paul as they go following the clues behind the death of Rachel's father.
Instead, she and Paul (although they are already divorced, they are still in love with each other), go off to Europe and tries to follow the trail of clues.
I understand it's still early, but we're five chapters in and nothing is happening. Plus reading other reviews put me off this one. This is likely where Steve Berry and I part ways. Happy trails, sir.
The "suddenly, as rare things will, it vanished" is a quote from Browning and is used during the book, it's an apt and appropriate quote.US Judge follows the trail of the Amber Room once her father is killed and she discovers he was involved in the search for the room at the back end of the war.
Judge's estranged husband joins her as they follow the trail through the types of adventures and close calls that we have now come to expect of these books.Well written and quite good fun if you like these kind of things.
In a genre in which both protagonists and villains always seem to know everything and know how to do everything, it’s enormously refreshing to tag along with characters who don’t make you feel hopelessly ignorant and incompetent.The henchpeople – Knoll (he) and Danzer (she) – are largely interchangeable, amoral in the usual ways, with roughly similar tastes and proclivities (why is it that in thrillers, the more evil you are, the more and better the sex that you have?).
This book had such a promising subject for a mystery and theauthor obviously researched amber and the amber room's history well.Then he threw it away in a mediocre novel with a truly unlikableheroine and her semi-wimpy ex-husband.
There are so many implausible events starting with Rachel'sdecision to flit off to Europe and and leave her two young children as well as a contentious race for her judges seat.
What Mother flies to Europe and doesn't call to check on her children and let whoever is taking careof them know how she can be reached?
So begins the hunt for the amber room with 2 crazy killers, some old men, and a divorced couple.
That may sound a little cynical, but after sitting through this novel I'm a little annoyed.The history behind the amber room is interesting.
Continuing the story once the location of the amber room was obvious is just painful.
If you are paying attention you will know what happened to the amber room about half way into the novel.
Don't pat yourself on the back because you have to sit through the other half of the novel yelling at the main characters to put their thinking caps on.
Berry's 1st outing is about as good as his others...,Being that this was Steve Berry's first book and I read his books out of order, I was pleasantly surprised to find that this was as well-written as his more recent outings.
I read Berry's other three books before reading this and the only fault that I can find in this book is that he has outdone himself with each subsequent release.
I am now a life-long Steve Berry fan.An excellent read with unexpected plot twists, vivid descriptions and excellent character development.
I gave this book an extra star because of the research put in to it, but I really didn't like it.
The father is the best-written character, for whom the reader feels most connection to, but he gets killed off right away.
The next-best written characters?
The bad guys.
And not best-written bad guys.
Nope, more interest is paid to them and their relationships than the protagonists, even when they're just killing people indiscriminately.
I liked The Romanov Prophecy and the Cotton Malone series sounds interesting, but I'm glad I didn't recommend this for my book club.
This is one of the Best Steve Berry Books written. Not a Cotton Malone book. According to the post notes, there was a lot of research done for this book and there are a lot of truths used. I think that anyone would enjoy this story..
This is the first Steve Berry book that I read.
He writes historical thrillers that lead the reader all over the world.
He bases his main idea for the book in fact, and then takes a few liberties with the facts to make it a more readable story.
In this story, there are two sets of art thieves out to find some of the most expensive and beautiful art treasures in the world.
In the book, the two main art thieves are playing cat and mouse with each other and trying to find this fabulous prize.
You'll have to read the book to find out!
Art historians everywhere would love to know what happened to the Amber Room after it disappeared during WWII.
Berry paints a wonderful tale of what might have happened to it in a story that chronicles the adventures of Atlanta judge Rachel Cutler when she travels to Europe to get to the bottom of this mystery after her father Karol Borya, was killed because of what he knew about the Amber Room's whereabouts.
Rachel gets mixed up in the race between two European industrialists/art collectors to find the Amber Room, and almost loses her life in the process.
This caught my attention right from the get go and is definitely a trip through the past.
What is not to like war history, mystery, conspiracy, a treasure hunt, priceless heirlooms and characters that are very well-developed.
This is a trip through time with a lot of mystery and charm.
The performance was amazing with all the European accent, male and female voices there was just a lot to love about this book.
Pick it up and give it a try because who doesn't love a treasure hunt with a ton of conspiracy.
I enjoy listening to Scott Brick narrate and so will always give him a 5 star stellar review.
The Amber Room is a great story of intrigue and thrills but I was very disappointed with the author's use of overt sex and foul language; I realize so many are following this path but having read the Cotton Malone series in its entirety and not finding that debasing form as a means to grab the listener/reader I naturally assumed this book would be similar.
The Amber Room is a heavily fictitious historical account of treasures lost in war, especially WWII, and plausible scenarios for their whereabouts.
Really got caught up in this book.
I already had an interest in the Amber Room and a long time ago had been at the palace where the room had been.
There were pictures there of what it had looked like.
I liked the way the book took historical facts and then turned them into a suspenseful read.
It didn't hurt that I am from Atlanta (where the story starts) and have been to most of the areas that were in the book.
It was also fascinating that last Tuesday there was an article in the newspaper about a dig beginning in Poland looking for the Nazi gold.
Not brilliant, but a reasonably entertaining readThe premise is strong - "Acquisitors," who scour the world for rare and stolen art treasures for their wealthy employers, however the delivery is predictable and the characters are not too strong either.The historical background of the Amber Room is quite interesting, but the story could have been so much better.A decent holiday read, but not very memorable.
Steve Berry's writing style is very reminiscent of Dan Brown. The difference that I have found with this book though is that Berry's approach is not about the symbols like Brown, but about the story as a whole. I really enjoyed this book and am looking forward to reading more of his work.
At the beginning this book was a tad confusing. So many characters from different parts of the world. Once I understood the characters I couldn’t put this book down. Highly recommend to anyone that enjoys historical fiction.
Very unique writing
এর চেয়ে ভাল শুরু আর হতে পারে না কোন একটা বই এর জনয। ২য় বিশব যুদধের সময়ের বনদীশিবির, বনদীদের নিরযাতন তথয আদায়ের জনয। এককেবারে যাকে বলে সলিড সটারট।কিনতু তারপরেই খেই হারাতে শুরু করে বই এর কাহিনী। আসতে আসতে বইএর নায়ক নায়িকাদের পরিচয় করিয়ে দেওয়া হতে থাকে। বাড়তে থাকে নতুন নতুন চরিতরের উপসথিতি। ঘটনা মূলত অযামবার রুম কে নিয়ে। কি এই অযামবার রুম? অযামবার কাঠের মূরাল দিয়ে তৈরি এই রুম। দেখলে মনে হবে সূরযের মাঝে দাঁড়িয়ে আছেন আপনি যাসট উততাপহীন সূরয। লুট হয়ে যায় ২য় বিশব যুদধের সময় হিটলারের দবারা।২য় বিশব যুদধে
অ্যাম্বার কাঠের মূরাল দিয়ে তৈরি এই রুম। দেখলে মনে হবে সূর্যের মাঝে দাঁড়িয়ে আছেন আপনি যাস্ট উত্তাপহীন সূর্য। লুট হয়ে যায় ২য় বিশ্ব যুদ্ধের সময় হিটলারের দ্বারা।২য় বিশ্ব যুদ্ধের ডামা ডলে যখন হিটলার সময় শেষের দিকে তখন সব লুট করা সম্পদের মাঝে এটাকেও লুকিয়ে ফেলা হয় মাটির নিচে, খনির ভল্টে। পরে অনেক খুজেও পাওয়া যায় নি অ্যাম্বার রুম অথবা এর কোন হাদিস। সবাই ভেবেছিল হারিয়ে গিয়েছে কিংবা নষ্ট হয়ে গিয়েছে পুরাপুরি। কিন্তু কেনই বাঁ একের পর এক মানুষ মারা যাচ্ছে যারা খোজে নামছে অ্যাম্বার রুমের?
A great book to read if your interested in the history based on WWII, German, Historical Treasures or the Soviet Union.
This book is based on the Search for the original Amber Room that spanned for more than 50 years.
Can you imagine an entire room made from amber, sculptures, wall art, frames, furniture all sculpted by Amber and wood.
I've often thought of all the lost and destroyed treasures from WWII and can only begin to imagine the magnificent pieces lost and the lives lost over such treasures.
This is a great take of suspense, a great adventure, a treasure hunt of epic proportion.
The book is a far cry from the few others of Steve Berry's books I've read, which makes me wonder how he managed to get this one published first.To sum up, The Amber Room is an overly complicated, arrogant tale about a search for just as the title says: the long-lost Amber Room once held in Russia's Catherine Palace.
So the book begins with this narrative, about a mysterious history of the room, and it brings in two shallow ex-lovers (who, spoiler alert, find love again, shockingly) to find it all over again.Paul and Rachel Cutler have absolutely no reason to be seeking the Amber Room.
Borya’s daughter Rachel is prodded to ignore his advice to stay away from the Amber Room when his “accidental” death seems suspicious, so she is soon on her way to Germany to interview an old friend of his.
Together, they unravel the secrets of the long missing Amber Room, while dodging danger from their adversaries every step of the way.
Though the protagonists were far too trusting and clueless and the bad guys were far too invincible, somehow everything fell into place and everyone got what they deserved in the end.This was a fairly well written novel with many different points of view to liven up the story.
The book is trying to combine the history from the World War II with treasure hunt of priceless art called “The Amber Room”.
The room itself existed once since it decorated a king’s work room and later a princess’ study room and it was lost forever after the Nazi (Hitler) seized the amber panels and shipped it to an unknown place (pardon me if I don’t get the facts correct).Since the room is completely lost in the real history, a treasure hunt ala Indiana Jones is always easy to develop from here.
