https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18060.Summer_Moonshine
Meanwhile, his daughter Jane is engaged to a man who's also engaged to a woman thinking of buying the house but enamored with another man, Joe Vanringham.
Additionally, Mrs. Abbot's brother is lurking in the background and Tubby Varingham is secretly in love with Buckstone's secretary.
Can Abbot sell his house and get out of his money woes without condemning his daughter to an unhappy life?P.G. Wodehouse is like a master chess player and his characters are the pieces.
Jane Abbot is the typical Wodehouse heroine, strong and feisty.
4.5
Sir Buckstone, like many Wodehouse aristocrats, is cash strapped and has to take paying guests in the Hall to make ends meet.
And if that wasn’t enough, Tubby’s brother Joe has fallen for Buck’s daughter, the pretty Imogen ‘Jane’ Abbott, but she is engaged to the good-for-nothing but handsome ‘worm’ Adrian Peake, who also happens to be engaged to the Princess Dwornitzchek.So of course, in the book we have quite a few of the elements of the typical, convoluted Wodehouse plot, with plenty of room for confusion, and indeed for lots of laughs.
gardening/deckchair/dog walking mp3 Due to the weather this uber-pink mp3 reader read was:shivering/settee pod/dog kicking: periodically out the door to battle with bullet rain/ extreme sudoku-ing.hah! It can rain all it likes until Wednesday, then it must stop for four and a half holiday weeks ...
One of Wodehouse's better stand-alone novels. I was amused by the fact that one plotline revolved around a dispute between a young American and his English sweetheart over the pronunciation of various words as well as proper terminology!! As Wodehouse lived for some time in the U.S. this subject was one he knew something about :-)Jonathan Cecil was in fine form with this narration and listening to the abovementioned dispute in audio added to my amusement considerably!
Amusing, typical Wodehouse. I've read better, but this is good.
This was my first encounter with Wodehouse.........and it got me addicted instantly....can never forget this one.....!! too good..!!
P.G. Wodehouse is simply the greatest comedy novelist of all time and this one just proves the point. This is a great little novel, that is both charming and laugh out loud funny. If all you know is the Jeeves novels, this is another good series to come to along with the Blanding’s series. If you are completely unfamiliar, this is a great novel for you to jump in on.
Add to these a secretary, who prides herself on her pure English, and is prepared to breakup her romance with a rich American purely on account of his Americanisms, a dashing young playwright, a process server uncle, and a fabulously rich Countess, the only potential house purchaser, and you have all the ingredients for enjoyment.
Some intensely funny scenes as when uncle Bulpitt has an accident and loses his dentures, or when three of the guests suddenly find their clothes disappearing and have to creep through the night dressed in towels and sacking, will have you in fits of laughter.
I was recently given a book to review for the local paper and found it so gloomy (it is about suicide, I have to admit) that I put it aside after 20 or 30 pages and picked up a P G Wodehouse that I'd had since I was a young man (around 50 years ago) and had apparently never read.
With a wonderfully chaotic and totally improbable plot - it's all sorted in the last chapter - this book is sheer nonsense from beginning to end, but what wonderfully written nonsense.
Wodehouse occasionally has his off-moments, but this is certainly not one of them.
Eu provavelmente vou ler todos os livros do Wodehouse, para tentar achar um ruinzinho. Esse aqui não é. É um dos poucos fora dos círculos do Castelo de Blandings e da relação Wooster-Jeeves e é muito, muito divertido.O segredo não é exatamente escrever sobre coisas leves, mas escrever com leveza. Você lê Wodehouse, percebe a crueza da finitude humana, a nossa insignificância universal, como somos um grãozinho de areia no Cosmos - e acha tudo muito engraçado.
This is one of Wodehouse' very best. If you only read one Wodehouse, read this one. Or Girl in Blue. But preferably this one.
As far as the plot is concerned, Joe falls in love with Jane who's a daughter of Baronet.
To add more confusions, the Princess sets off to sail for a few weeks leaving her another step-son Tubby (Joe's younger brother) in charge with the Baronet and leaves her engaged boyfriend Adrian in London (with strict instructions not to go after other women).
Now, Adrian assumes Jane's rich as she's heiress of a Baronet and so wants to marry her.
In the end, all is well in Wodehouse's world.
A gem. Wonderful! Classic Wodehouse. I loved it!! Enough said!!
I have practically everything Wodehouse wrote on my shelves, and I've read most of his books multiple times.
I turned to this one for some comic relief in the middle of a much heavier book I'm reading.
I wondered why I didn't remember much about this book.
After all, it was written in 1937 - this was a prime period for Wodehouse.Well, I couldn't remember much about it because I hadn't read and reread this one as much as some of Plum's others.
And the hero's behavior falls somewhere between (by current standards) harassment and just being a real jerk.I love Wodehouse, but didn't enjoy this one.
Another Wodehouse book for perfect summer reading.
This one doesn't feature Jeeves & Wooster, but I really liked it.
The plot is this: Lord Buckstone wants to sell his hideous country house to Princess Dwornitzcheck who is engaged to Adrian Peake.
Adrian Peake is also engaged to Buckstone's daughter Jane, who has won the affection of Joe Vanringham, the Princess' stepson.
Not quite as good as the Jeeves & Wooster books but I'll take it any day.
A big kiss for Wodehouse books.
Delightful and hilarious! One of the best Wodehouse books I've ever read. The witty dialogue and the funny situations just kept me chuckling all the time. It amazes me how brilliantly the author takes a cast of characters, all with their own agenda and wants, and weaves a plot of silly mistakes and coincidences, so that each character interacting with the others on different levels finally arrives at the desired destination, whether good or bad for heroes or villains. Just wonderful!
Got in a little LOLing trouble with Bone throughout this one. Delightful beach reading.
The master is simply in sublime form. As Stephen Fry put it, "You don't analyse such sunlight perfection, you just bask in its warmth and splendour."
No more Wodehouse for awhile. This one just got plain irritating- like, get on with it, people!
Very well written. The twists and turns in the plot had me laughing all the way. Looking forward to reading other books by P.G.Wodehouse.
Wodehouse es un capo. Luna de verano es una cruza entre comedia de enredos y cuento de hadas capitalista, que en ningún momento aburre, y además, está escrito con maestría. Pum para arriba.
Great fun
Just what I needed. Nice, light, funny, happy ending.
I enjoyed a few other books about some other family, but this one seemed trite rather than funny.I know that Wodehouse wrote these books at a time when women weren't even supposed to be half as interesting as a man.
This was the period when men like T S Eliot could put their women into an asylum and never let them out again.
This was a time when men like Turing would get injections to stop their homosexual tendencies.
Being a man was everything, having a pretty wife was part of that.STILL Joe seems like a jerk to me.
His voice, when he spoke, came out in a sort of sepulchral gasp, as if he had been a spirit at a seance talking through a megaphone.""He was now crawling along the edge of the road with the air of a Nebuchadnezzar in search of better pasture."When the master of a rural castle has an unpleasant visitor subletting the houseboat moored on his property, he seeks counsel from his lawyers in London: "He had a solid faith in the acumen of the Messrs Boles, Boles, Wickett, Widgery and Boles, of Lincoln's Inn Fields, and was rather hoping that they might tell him that it would be quite in order for him to slip a couple of sticks of dynamite under the houseboat Mignonette and blow the bally thing to blazes."
Having read all of P.G. Wodehouse's books up to the point that SUMMER MOONSHINE was published, I've noted there are three basic type of Wodehouse stories: the relatively realistic light comedies, the completely absurb musical comedy-type stories, and those in between.
This one is one of those in-betweeners, leaning, perhaps, towards the musical comedy-type.
(Other Wodehouse stories do this as well, but generally the importance of the characters is not spread out quite so evenly as it is here ) Perhaps that's why it didn't quite grab me the way many of the others do, but I would never the less not have missed reading this one.
Wodehouse was so prolific throughout his career that to read all of his works you would have to devote your life to the cause. The heartening thing for those who choose not to, is that you are virtually guaranteed an un-read Wodehouse novel any time you want one. I (shamefully) keep wondering if the next one I read will be the one that fails me, certainly not the case with Summer Moonshine. Prosey perfection down to the final period.
Funny, funny, funny Wodehouse. Girl and boy meet and keep getting sidetracked by silliness. Men who lose their clothes,a plasterer (not the handyman kind), a driver of a charabanc, a Princess and a Baronet.“At any unpleasantness involving an automobile there is always to be found in the crowd which assembles a woman of the type to which this belonged, not neccessarily in a cricket cap but invariably endowed with the quick and imaginative mind that goes with that rather eccentric headgear. When bigger and better revolutions are made, women of this kind will make them.”
Delightful as ever. Keeps you smiling throughout the book. Some sections of the love story can make you cringe in 2018 given what is happening about consent and respectfully taking no for an answer. But the greatness of Wodehouse is in transporting you to that era and making you an eager spectator of the strange but amusing conversations of the characters.
