https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/287019.Towards_the_End_of_the_Morning
Divertido, incluso he soltado un par de carcajadas
Fictional account of journalists working on Fleet Street.
I liked it, don't get me wrong but Frayn's updated introduction was more enjoyable than the whole book.
The first couple of chapters were fine concentrating on the journalists on Fleet street & gave a pretty good rendition of how newspapers worked - not to mention the long pub lunches, but the end pretty much petered out with the domestic lives of the main characters, and recounting of John's airline screwup of his Persian Gulf trip.
Dialogue and characterisation were good.
1 of 25 books bought today for $10 (the lot).
This novel, originally written in 1967, is an icredible capture of Fleet Street in London at the end of the 1950s.
Fleet Street was the centre of newspapers and this is set in the crosswords section of an unnamed paper.
It preserves an era of journalism that is both well dead and lovingly missed.
Frayn is a marvelous novelist who got his start in newspapers and there is a quality of nostalgia about the book that is quite moving.
It is about the practice of journalism and about the inevitable dissapointments of life.
The story is filled with marvelous characters and wonderful set pieces.
Evelyn Waugh’s 1938 classic, following an accidental foreign correspondent covering a civil war in Africa, is a satire of sensation journalism.
Michael Frayn’s 1967 novel, on the other hand, is a thoroughly domestic affair and doesn’t even have much to do with London newspapering.
The plot follows two newspaper editors – John Dyson and Bob Bell – who stumble through their lives in various states of drunkenness, despair and confusion.
Dyson tries to get on TV and does battle with his garbage-throwing neighbors; Bob sucks on toffees and drifts toward marriage to an anxious young woman he doesn’t seem to like very much.
This book reeks of newsrooms smells from before computer screens and photo-setting - anyone who worked in newspapers of that era would recognise not just the characters and the events, but the wasteful, unworldly pace of journalistic life before proprietors were replaced by shareholders and the double tsunami of broadcasting and the internet swept away print journalism as it once was. This book is funny and farcical. And more than a little sad for some of us....
Novela sobre el mundo del periodismo de la vieja escuela. Escrita a mitad del siglo XX, ha sido muy fácil disfrutar con su humor irónico y sarcástico.http://miviajeliterario.blogspot.com/...
Really quite a likeable period piece, this.
Touches upon class (this being the age of grammar school boys rising and toffs donning gangster accents); TV (feels very accurate), gender (lots of her indoors) and domestic (the ambition to buy somewhere crap and for the area to pick up was there 50 years ago).
I also like the early glimpses of a more modern London: those meals on 'a biryani' and eating a 'Cypriot'.
A little slapstick towards the end, but feels like a classic of sorts.
Like a run of 'The Good Life', say.

I enjoyed Michael Frayn's Booker shortlisted  Headlong  so much when I read it 18 years ago now that I have periodically been tempted to go back to him.
A great introduction to this book that tells of the pubs and alleyways of Fleet Street in their heyday - an area I myself was to find myself working in at the turn of the millennium - promised much but this turned out to be light satirical fayre when I would have loved to get my teeth into a more serious, but still comic 450 page + novel.
Frayn is good on observational humour and his tales of obsession with which areas of London are fashionable remain prescient today.
A humorous and poignant look at the decline of old-fashioned print journalism in the face of the challenge of television broadcasting.
The reader is parachuted into the mundanity of John Dyson's work as sub-editor of the crosswords and nature notes department of an unspecified newspaper.
In the middle of a mid-life crisis, he is deperate to escape this journalistic backwater and establish his credentials as a broadcaster.
Frayn mercilessly pokes fun at Dyson and his office colleagues' failed hopes for professional advancement as they devote hours in their favourite watering-holes bemoaning the class structure of the time as well as the situation at the office.
"American" because it has as one of its concerns the very American quest for personal transformation.
Everyone in this novel is desperately trying to transform themselves.
An editor into a TV personality, a reporter into a novelist, a finishing-school (can't get much more transformational than this!) girl into a wife, a housewife into anything but a housewife, a graduate into a press baron.Fans of the play "Noises Off" will be reminded of Frayn's gift for farce, and people who haven't seen "Noises Off" should get off their bums and rectify that situation, I mean, really.
I read this in preparation for my first Book Club meet.
When I read the blurb it did not appeal and the Sunday Times review '...one of the funniest novels about journalists ever written.' gave me a sinking feeling so I was determined not to enjoy this microcosm of life in the crossword and times past section of a minor league newspaper!
However after struggling with the first couple of chapters I gradually grew fond of egotistical Dyson and his fumbling sidekick Bob. Mrs Mounce is also a cleverly drawn character.
So I am happy to have my first impressions squashed....but I still would not choose to read a similar book!
12 chapters, 94,000+ wordsHow have I lived this long without knowing about this book and Michael Frayn?
But if not for Valancourt Books, I still wouldn’t know about him or his work.
I hope Valancourt wins its fight against the U.S. Copyright Office and becomes more prosperous.This account of London journalists and their families, colleagues and friends is funny and interesting and such a pleasure to read that I had to force myself to stop reading it through in one sitting.The satirical comic characters are perfect for depicting journalism and middle class life in the twentieth century.
An informative and entertaining look at 1960s Fleet Street, and journalism of old. Some of the scenes represent the funniest fiction I've ever read (Bob's juggling of Tessa and his other female friends; Bob and Tessa's lunch at the Dysons') but other parts are repetitive and a little tedious. The fundamental flaw is that it is somehow impossible to care about, or even side with, any of the characters.
I went into this book blind, hoping for a romanticised account of a struggling journalist looking for their next big scoop. It turned out to be something different. I found myself reading through the chapters feeling disconnected to the characters and the story. The rating is more a reflection of my reading experience and less about the quality of the book.
A comedic tragedy on how futile having dreams and goals can be but how fulfilling life can be in the meantime. Well written but not plot-driven. Equal amount of laugh-out-loud and cringe-through-your-fingers moments.
Not as great as some of his other novels. Set in Fleet street at one of the newspapers, but ultimately the story fizzles out a bit.
Technically, a good book. Beautifully written, but did nothing for me.
There’s a quote on the back of my edition of this book from a review in The Spectator which reads: ‘A sublimely funny comedy about the ways newspapers try to put lives into words.’ Let’s break out our blue pencil: funny, yes.
It has a somewhat skewed approach to approaching the world through metaphor that so many other books of this author’s generation have (I’m thinking in particular of Malcolm Bradbury’s ‘The History Man’ here) where it’s almost like certain images come to dictate the existence of the characters beyond what we would normally expect in a realistic novel.
Incredibly funny in a late 1970s sitcom kind of way. Absolutely loved it.
Resuletó ser una comedia sin pretensiones, bien simpática y divertida.
Didn't actually finish it, not my taste
Cracking read - great characters. Very funny in places. loved it!
James Dyson, mid-level editor at an ailing London paper, and his underling, Bob Bell, are two overworked and underpaid hacks in Fleet Street in the 1960s, at a time when the newspaper industry in that famous thoroughfare was in terminal decline.
Frayn long had an inkling that the world of Fleet Street, so memorably captured at its peak in ‘Scoop’, was in the decline, writing that it “was coming towards the end not just of the morning, but of the afternoon as well, and the shades of night were gathering fast.” It’s a much more grounded novel than Evelyn Waugh’s classic, but even without the comparison it stands as a great work on its own.
So extremely funny it is hard to read and breathe at the same time. A wonderful portrait of what London was like in a particular period.
Not exactly what I expected -- I thought it would be a novel about journalism, but it was more about journalists and their lives and relationships. Still, it was comedy gold! 4.5 stars, rounded up to 5.
Some review or other of this book mentioned "Keep the Aspidistra Flying" by Orwell.
The cover review quotes of this book mention jokes and humour.
If I could change one thing about the book it would be to remove the attempted humour that sometimes seems to be there in order to sell the book as a screenplay (the authors own yearnings to get on the telly?) and instead frame it more in the style of Orwell or a Mike Leigh film.It isn't really a book about fleet street.
That is what the book is about, entropy of existence.
Die Tatsache, dass ich eine Übersetzung dieses Buches im Regal stehen hatte, hat mich jahrelang davon abgehalten, es zu lesen, was im Nachhinein betrachtet nicht nur Unsinn, sondern auch ein schwerer Fehler war.
Trotzdem würde ich unbedingt zum Original raten.Geschrieben hat Frayn dieses Buch schon in den 60ern und in England wurde es auch 1967 veröffentlicht, aber die deutsche Erstauflage stammt interessanterweise von 2005 und irgendwie wird dadurch schon deutlich, dass dies mehr ist als der Abgesang auf das Zeitungswesen, als der "Fleet Street Roman", als der er immer wieder dargestellt wurde.
The novel is set in the London of the early 60s, when a working man’s salary of £5500 per annum could get him a small home in the suburbs.
Three men work in a newspaper department whose responsibility is the paper’s crosswords, news of the past, and various other odds and ends.
The novel ends with all the principals and their various threads gathered up at a television studio: the threshold of a brave new world, seemingly to be no less filled with flummery.
Then Rupert Murdoch came along.
The printing presses went upmarket to Wapping, the printed word went decidedly down-market to tabloid hell.(By the way, I just discovered that when you write 'Fleet' the Google word prediction device doesn't offer up 'Street' as an option, but the name 'Rupert' does present 'Murdoch' as a likely successor.
Bob Bell is his younger, lazier assistant who receives an unwonted visit from his provincial girlfriend Tessa.The Fleet Street of the 1960s and 70s was a cosy, pre-clickbait world of polyester shirts and a few pints down the pub at lunchtime.
