https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/790740.Tales_of_the_Cthulhu_Mythos_Vol_2
I don't mean to say by giving this 5 stars that all of the stories are amazing - it is just a good, fun read and I didn't want to skip any of them. The first few are amazing though... it gets weighted down a bit by the James Wade and Colin Wilson stories at the end which are overlong, but again I still enjoyed them.
The Robert Bloch stories in this collection are a real treat. If you love H.P. Lovecraft's breathless tales of cosmic horror, you should also read both volumes of Tales of the Cthulhu Mythos. Great vintage stuff from an energetic era of powerful fiction.
It was this book that introduced me to Lovecraft.
I still remember the day i read as if it were yesterday though it was 40 years ago!
My whole view of the universe got rocked by Lovecraft's story 'the Haunter of the Dark' and the two sequels penned by Robert Bloch that appear in this volume.
Every tale in here is by a classic horror writer!
Some are from the 70s: Ramsey Campbell, Brian Lumley; others were contemporaries of HPL: August Derleth, Robert e Howard, and even Clark Ashton Smith.
If you only read ONE Lovecraft book - then i highly recommend this one.
These early volumes edited by Derleth show precisely the flaw of those who continued in Lovecraft's footsteps: the tightrope effort to avoid slavish pastiche of Lovecraft's style while also avoiding anything that contradicted either the worked-out mythos behind the stories or the general tenor thereof.
Fantastic collection of Lovecraft-inspired stories. My gosh, the line-up of authors is a dream team. Robert Bloch is always a special treat. Ramsey Campbell, Brian Lumley (the truest progenitor of Lovecraft mythos since H.P. himself). First stories are the best and it slows down a bit after that, but overall a stellar effort.
Non al livello del primo libro del ciclo di CthulhuRacconti carini tutto sommato. In particolar modo le storie sugli antichi. Serve una preparazione culturale non indifferente (che Lovecraft possedeva) per scrivere racconti che spaziano in ogni campo dello scibile umano. Sono costretto anche ad ammettere che i racconti qui raccolti non sono al livello del tomo precedente; "Il caso Charles Dexter Ward" a mio avviso è la perfezione assoluta relativa di Lovecraft, un racconto che lascia una traccia indelebile. Qui invece ci sono racconti per lo più racchiusi nel pantheon delle divinità mostruose, con la figura dominante di Cthulhu.
After reading the second volume of this commented collection of the Cthulluh myth, my first impression is hardened.
I really adore Lovecrafts universe and appreciate the ideas he's forming, but I'll never get used to his style.
The novels are way to detailed.
God damn, it's enough to say those damn tunnels are huge, I don't care if they are 5 or 9 meters high.
Further, I surely get the idea of repetition to create the impression of an existing universe or multiverse, but hell, it gets annoying after 3 novels straight.
But, you can have fun with that volume if you adore Lovecraft, and if it's only for the annotations..
Wieder sehr genossen. Auf jeden Fall irgendwann Reread.
The opening trio of linked stories -- Bloch's tribute/sendup of HPL, followed by HPL's he-has-a-sense-of-humor rejoinder, and then Bloch's fond response after HPL's death -- is classic. It's a mixed bag from there: I liked Bloch's other contribution, Lumley's first and Wilson's, didn't think much of Campbell's or Wade's. Unnecessary, but not bad for a tribute volume.
I've only read the Cthulhu stories of Lovecraft, Howard and Bloch, so this was a good opportunity for me to check out some other writers takes.The first three stories in the book, one by Lovecraft and two by Bloch, make up an interrelated narrative and there's an interesting story behind that.
Bloch asked Lovecraft if he could not only put him in a story but actually have Lovecraft die.
It's a good story, though and relates nicely to Lovecraft's tales of Innsmouth.I'd definitely like to find and read the first volume of Tales because it was a pleasure to check out some other writers having fun with Lovecraft's creation.
I am excited to finish this book as it contains all three parts of the Bloch/Lovecraft trilogy starting with The Shambler From the Stars. Thank you Powells' for having this gem on your shelves when I went for the Lovecraft Film Festival!Most of the stories were quite entertaining except for James Wade's _The Deep Ones_. It had a good start but Wade really wrote a challenge for himself in making dolphins seem ominous.
Nach Lektüre beider Sammelbänder reicht dann erstmal wieder, alles in allem ist Lovecrafts Werk zwar vielseitig, im Kern aber dennoch repetitiv. Was nichts daran ändert, dass die Innsmouth Geschichte zum besten gehört, was ich im Bereich Horror je gelesen habe.Die Sammlung ist in beiden Bänden mit klugen und informativen Kommentaren versehen, ich kann sie als Werkübersicht für Lovecraft uneingeschränkt empfehlen.
I have been picking up some of these Lovecraftian books at used bookstores. This one is by H.P. Lovecraft "and others" which is at least honest since there is one HPL story here. I liked it; honestly, some of the later writers like Robert Bloch are almost better than the original stuff. Plus there is a hilarious story about dolphins by James Wade.
Very nice compilation, specially as it focuses more on Lovecraft's successors (Colin Wilson, James Wade, J. Ramsey Campbell), who bring the mythos into a modern context--and a modern, less Lovecraft-affected style, for a change.
Berge des Wahnsinns, Der Schatten über Innsmouth, Der Schatten aus der Zeit - 3 wegweisende Geschichten. Master of Horror.
My favorite story in this anthology isn't actually by Lovecraft. "The Deep Ones" was a memorable little story and I occasionally pick this up just to read that one story.
ALABADO SEA CTHULHU
Classic stories, many different styles and takes on the Lovecraftian tale.
I have all the writings of Lovecraft,which leads me to this: how many versions of the books or collections does one need?
