https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78131.The_Killing_Game
I will add some text just to make the review a bit more understanding.
This book was just as the first one good with a compelling story and a really crazy killer.We also had a bit of a triangle drama between Logan, Eve and Joe. It's actually nice that Iris Johansen didn't drag out it through 20 books.
Instead, did she make Eve and the guy in question a couple in this book.
And, I could have lived with either choice, to be honest...How about the story with the killer?(I thought I had the ending figured out but, the last twist I never suspected)4.5 stars
I cannot concentrate on anything else.Things were going well in the beginning, despite the fact that I thought Joe was acting like a pushover, but when he decided he didn't just want to be her friend anymore, things started going downhill.It's not because I didn't want them together, of course I did, I had been rooting for them since the first book, but the problem was that gone was the soft and caring yet badass Joe I cared for, in his place was an aggressive asshole.
I had a pretty good idea (2 different people) as between who I thought the killer/Dom was and Iris Johansen managed to pull a great twist to the ending of the story.I have read other Eve Duncan books out of order and decided to start from the beginning so I learn how Eve and Logan met (#1 in the series), and to how Eve and Joe develop into their relationship.If you like suspense and a good story line, I would recommend just about any of the Iris Johansen books.
Really enjoyed rereading this book, and knowing who the bad guy was, and the things that he said, yeah, that was pretty creepy! Can't wait to reread The Search, next!
The series dragged on for so long that I can't help but wonder if Johansen was still undecided about how it would end when she wrote "The Killing Game."The following paragraph contains a small spoiler regarding Eve's relationships, but I'm sure most people saw it coming, anyway.(view spoiler)[In this book, Eve Duncan and Joe Quinn are still "just friends," and Eve is in a kinda-sorta relationship with John Logan, a wealthy businessman.
Eve spends most of her time thinking of Joe, Jane, the bad guy du jour, and, of course, Bonnie.
WOW I couldn't have asked for a better Mystery/Thriller/Twister!
I'm not easy to please when it comes to my mysteries.
They need to hold my wandering attention, keep me guessing and then at the end slam me between the eyes with a finish I never saw coming.
Well this one beat me repeatedly between the eyes!
Sorry, I got carried away, I really liked the book.
I strongly suggest this book to people like me who ask a lot of an author to get us to come back for more.
At the time I read those I had no intention of ever continuing, much less going back to the start of the series and proceeding from there.
Thus I related them more to the Harlequin genre which to some degree I believe they are and that's just fine for me since I've read my fair share of Harlequins and still eye-ball one now and then depending on author and subject...duh...as with any book.
As I might be a late comer to this series I am in no way "not" going to continue the ongoing adventures of Eve, Bonnie, and Quinn thus maintaining a high recommendation for all interested in this type genre.
Way too many cliches and to-stupid-to-live moments.
The whining continues in this second novel about Eve Duncan.
3 stars for the 1 1/2 hours of audio by a narrator whose pitch I had to lower in order to tolerate.I'm always wanting to get into a long police procedural and have been wanting to like the In Death one by JD Robb but always end up bored.
I decided to give this 2nd Eve Duncan book a try after reading the first book in paperback 18 years ago.
At least I can remember Roarke from the first In Death book which I read 20 years ago then never went back to the series until my recent attempts.
Eve Duncan is a very strong-willed, independent woman that has a very haunting past.She spends much of her time reconstructing faces onto skulls to identify the remains, she is one of the top forensic sculptors.
Eve is on a mission to find her little girl while along the way falling into a world of chaos.In the Killing Game, Eve is being stalked by a psychopath that claims he is responsible for her daughter's death and knows where her remains are located.
Is this crazed killer telling the truth or is he setting Eve up to be his next victim?
With the help of a few friends, Eve will finds out the truth and maybe a little more then she bargained for.
Eve Duncan26/10/15 | 3.5 starsThis is the second book in the Eve Duncan series and I'm liking enough to to carry on with it.
The killer put Eve through so much in this book.
I can't remember how many years ago, but Eve's daughter Bonnie was murdered and the body never found.
The killer in this one used that and give Eve false hope the he killed her daughter and would lead her to recovering the body.
I also had no clue as to who the killer ended up being.
The one thing I haven't like in these first two books is the romance.
Spoiler alert!!I loved this book so much.
I am a huge fan of the Eve Duncan novels.
This book is by far one of my favorites....I finally got to read the book where Eve admits her feelings for Joe and Joe stops sitting on the sidelines of Eve's life and demands to have a staring role.
There is great excitement in this book and you can't help but feel for Eve as she suffers for her daughter, but you can't help but hurt for the guy who is always there for her no matter what as well.
Will they ever find Bonnie???
Others have mentioned the implausibility of Eve even being allowed to be involved in these cases. I agree but that doesn't actually bother me too much. What bothers me is that the police keep covering for her when she commits really terrible crimes, such as kidnapping. In a lot of books the police overlook some slight criminal activities when the hero saves the day but kidnapping? I kept getting stuck on that.
Way too many unrealistic decisions and scenarios in this one, and not much time spent exploring Eve's forensic reconstruction skills which is what attracted me to the series in the first place. I'll probably keep reading to see where the on-going plot threads lead and the author does present great plot twists, but I'm skimming more just to get through the ridiculous parts.
Pretty predictable but am very much enjoying the premise of the whole series enough to keep reading - hopefully it does not push too much into the romance genre though - can't stomach that.
Oké, nem voltam lelenc, védett körülmények közt nőttem fel, lehet, hogy tényleg így beszél egy olyan tízéves, akit hányt-vetett a sors ide meg oda is...
Apám gyakran végiggürizte a napot, oké, de semmiképp nem mondanám egy törvényszéki szobrászra, hogy gürizik valakinek a fején, a "törd csak a burád"-at pedig egyenesen nevetségesnek találtam.
Bár az engem bosszantó kifejezéseket leszámítva a fordítás végül is jó volt, szívem szerint csak azért levontam volna öt-tíz csillagot (de hát én gonosz vagyok:))Végül azért nem voltam szigorúbb, mert a szavak mögött gyakran édesapámat véltem hallani...
This had some twists and turns.Liked it.
Great book I'm getting ready to start book #3 of the series. This series is awesome I read this in 1 day
This is a review for this book along with the first of the series, The Face of Deception.
I read the first few books of Johansen's Eve Duncan series several years ago close to when each was first released, late 90s.
I discovered this series is now 20 +/- books in.
As I own both books 1 and 2, I decided to give them a re-read to see if I wanted to continue.
The Killing Game is significantly better but still had way too many TSTL moments combined with unlikely scenarios for me to enjoy it.
I now remember why I didn't continue with this series.
Este é um daqueles livros que comprei compulsivamente numa Feira do Livro devido ao preço (penso que na altura a Gradiva estava a vendê-lo a 5 ou 2,5 euros, uma pechincha) para depois ficar uns anitos a ganhar pó na estante até que chegue o dia em que pense "Vá lá...
Apesar do seu foco ser algo chocante, a sua leitura não choca ninguém, pelo contrário, envolve o leitor até nos sentirmos como uma mosca numa teia de aranha.Com um início empolgante, o ritmo não abranda até chegarmos ao seu final.
Tenho o outro livro da autora - "A busca" - que comprei na mesma altura e espero que seja tão bom como este.
At the beginning of the book, Logan and Eve are together on a little island getting their groove thing on...Logan, who is not a sympathetic character IMHO is in love with Eve. Eve just doesn't do that...and when the opportunity arises for her to go off and solve crimes with BFF Joe, she runs leaping after it.
The only reason I'll consider reading the next book in the series is because Eve and Joe aren't in it and I might get some closure for Logan, who although an asshole, I feel bad for after this rejection.
This book is awful.
The first line is: The skeleton had been in the ground for a long time.
It's a freakin skeleton.
Of course it's been in the ground a long time.
You don't just become a skeleton overnight.
And there must be plenty of skeletons in the closet where Joe Quinn lives.
Because he seems to know an awful lot about skeletons.
Johansen likes to explain everything in fragments.
But it's nothing like Ellroy or Cain.
Rats.Or even later on in the book:Faster.To the left.
Found!It goes on, reading like a bad seventh grader's poetry class.
Only my second book by this author as well as the second in the "Eve Duncan" series. Quick & to the point: WOWSA! I am VERY impressed!I do not give 5 stars lightly & am often hyper-critical even, but I really am enjoying this fast paced, clever, surprising & suspenseful, well written series & characters.'Nuff said! ☺Enjoy fellow readers! Cheers,NurseLisainOhio (twitter & instagram; Lisa R.- foursquare. Tweet or message me to be my Nook friend to share/swap books!)
Back to Eve Duncan in Kindle format. I'm a bit surprised that I like this series - it's not really the "hard core" detective books I usually like - but it is well written; the characters are interesting enough for you to like (or dislike) them; and there is plenty of action to keep the story going. Even the "romance" isn't objectionable, cause it fits the story line. All in all, an entertaining read. <><
the series could grow on me...
I swear, this series' plots are ridiculous, but they're so compulsively readable!3.5 stars
I like it! Eve Duncan, Joe Quinn, and John Logan are an interesting ensemble of characters. The series so far is easy to read and the plots are great for quick and easy entertainment.
I could not read this book fast enough, a real page turner.I highly recommend it.
I haven't read Eve Duncan Book #1 but I assume this is what happened- Eve's daughter Bonnie was killed by a serial killer named Fraser and he was executed but he never revealed where she was buried.
This is when Dom contacts Eve and says that he has the girl's skeleton and he also alludes that it could be Bonnie's skull.
The 1st 100 pages or so involve Dom tormenting her about Bonnie & shows how much Eve wants to bring home Bonnie but since I know that it's not going to happen in this book, that portion fell flat.
