https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12319459-shogun-part-2
An enjoyable epic and a brilliant one!Clavell does an excellent job of leading the reader towards seeing the Japanese way, the culture, tradition, way of life and mentality.
He succeeds to portray Japanese culture through the lens of a Western explorer and to show how completely one's opinion of a culture can change after exposure and thought.
The reader gets into the head of everyone and the story will be deep in the head of one character, hearing their emotions, dreams, perceptions, and then it will be just as deply focused on another character a few paragraphs later, so you can never get bored of one voice .
James Clavell is clearly a gifted writer.
His Shogun books have taken me on a journey to far away lands where I've learned about samurai, ninja, ladies of The Willow Word, geisha, karma, daimyos and seppuku, honor and traitors.
I enjoyed these first two books of the Shogun series.
That said, I didn't love them.
I attribute Clavell's art of writing as the reason that I never reached a point where I wanted to give up and put them down for good.
I have to respect that when all is said and done.
Seriously epic.
Увлекателна книга, наситена с описания на японския бит и култура. Невероятен стил на писане, но то Клавел си го може :) В повече ми дойдоха само всичките задкулисни игри, сплетни, предателства, политически и търговски интереси. Тооолкова дълго време я отлагах, изпитвах някакъв страх, но го преборих, прочетох я и не съжалявам.
One amazing book.
I felt like the end was incomplete, or maybe it was me wanting to read more of the story. You can look up the historical part.
Shogun is set in medieval Japan, in the time of warlords and endless battles.
The samurai were the "knights" of their day, and reigned supreme in their land.
The land was divided into provinces and the shifting of power was an endless tide of blood and deception.
Into this world walks an English pilot, John Blackthorne, whose ship and crew are marooned by shipwreck and are now at the mercy of Lord Toranaga, in whose province they have come ashore.
The rest of his crew suffer the indignities of wartime criminals, but Blackthorne is singled out by Toranaga because of his intelligence and quick thinking.
James Clavell is a fantastic writer when it comes to the setting of Asia.
Much of the book is based on actual historical events, as are the characters so the story has an authentic feel.Clavell goes into fantastic depth in every aspect and the characters are very well developed.
It has an addictive plot and is very hard to put down, though the 1000 pages may be daunting at first if you're one who likes to get started on new books.
The reason it is 4 stars and not 5, is that I wanted it to be relative to another of Clavell's novels Tai-Pan
Un livre divertissant et agréable à lire.
D'une réalité fracassante , on croirais y etre!
There is so much information contained within and threaded throughout this story that the reader cannot help but learn a great deal about this era in Japanese and world history.
I love this book so much it took me longer to read than it should have, as I started dragging my feet when I saw how few pages remained.If I had one complaint, it is that the ending feels summarized rather than told as part of the narrative, but this is just because I would have loved to read another 500-1000 pages of Shogun.
'Yes, that was all my fault and I'm truly sorry, but that was a mistake, not a deliberate choice on my part.
Karma.
Yes, I know karma now.' This book centers around the character's karma.
I recall a debate in college in regards to religion, and the discussion that religion can be a crutch that people may use so they don't have to deal with reality (i.e 'God's will is what will happen, etc.) It brings to mind the repeated use of karma throughout the book.
Karma is the answer to everything.
Loyalty is another strong force.
The loyalty to one's leader, to one's parents.
I love historical fiction, and this book provided a deep and satisfying exploration of ancient Japanese culture, which I believe provides great insight into more modern experiences with Japan - WWII and even today.
I loved, loved, loved learning about ancient Japan; their culture and perspective is fascinating!
I enjoyed how the book begins from Blackthorne's perspective and ends with Toranaga's.
Although the reader is obviously talented, I found his "Blackthorne" voice annoying.
That said, I would recommend it to any and all readers - if only to learn more about truly exquisite people.
James Clavell is an incredibly gifted author who manages to capture what I think is the soul of Japan in this book - Bushido. The story flows naturally and intelligently and the character development is incredibly well done. The descriptions are so vivid that they transpose the reader to the world of Medieval Japan and it makes you feel like you're right next to Anjin-san in the thick of the story.Wish that I had read it sooner... Heartily recommended to all readers out there!
If you want to get a sense for Japanese history, culture and thinking, this epic is ideal. Be prepared for 1100 pages (parts 1 and 2 together) of intrigue and mystery, a clash of cultures all with a bit of romance thrown in. This is my second read after at least 30 years, I pulled it off the shelf in preparation to a trip to Japan. I was not disappointed to dive into the world of Anjinsan, Toronagosan and Marikosan yet again.
I loved this book from the start! So detailed and wonderful characters! The plot was fabulous and sets amazing. I was so worried when the made for tv event in 1980 came out. BUT_ wonder of wonders! Hollywood did it right! Just that much better to enjoy the story! (But I still love the book more!)
Always have thought this was one of the finest books I have ever read.and I've read it 3 times and still think the same.
read it years ago great novel and reserch
A wonderful historical fiction and beautifully written. James Clavell explores this time period in such exquisite detail. If you are looking for an adventure and want an epic one , this is your book.
Definitely more war-orientated than the 1st part and therefore a bit harder to read and understand.
An absolute masterpiece. One of the best books ever written!
Check out my review for the first book as this is merely a continuation of that book. :P
Bittersweet, but realistic historical fiction
Great book! A masterpiece. Best book ever!
Уникално четиво!
I'm a big fan of Tai-Pan and thought that I would be doing James Clavell a disservice if I didn't read Shogun.
I studied Japanese history in University and would say that Clavell's historical account of samurai and the Bushido code were accurate.
In fact, Clavell borrowed the story line from a famous samurai's rise to Shogun.
Tai-Pan didn't bore me, rich in content...it retells the story of the Opium trade and the now famous banking families that built their wealth around it.
I watched the Shogun mini series when I was young (the one with Richard Chamberlain), part of me feels that the mini-series was better than the book.
Клавел, като цяло е уникален автор,който съумява да те накара да съпреживяваш с героите му от началото , до самия край.
От години исках да прочета Шогун ,но филма, който вярвам всички едно време гледахме с голям интерес ,ме спираше.
Та ,когато реших, че е минало достатъчно време, и помня единствено някакви съвсем откъслечни моменти, взех че я прочетох.
Достави ми огромно удоволствие, и реших ,че преди да продължа с останалите от Азиатската сага, ще прочета отново "Мусаши" на Ейджи Йошикава, който хронологически започва там , където завършва " Шогун".
This review is for Shogun volumes number 1 and 2.This book is perfect if you want to be introduced to feudal Japan, for its goal is not only entertaining (which it does) but also learning about this strange - for the West - country.
You manage to learn through the eyes of one who didn't choose to be there and doesn't know the language or the traditions and finds himself in the midst of a silent war, where strategy is everything and people also want to use him for their own purposes.
Everything is properly explained, the reader is not left with questions and the book is extremely well-written, considering its size and theme.
I couldn't put it down!
I was inspired to read this book after seeing reference to it in the New Zealand Film 'Boy'.Being a 
(view spoiler)[I was wondering if it's possible for Shogun to have a decent ending and keep at the same time both Anjin-san and Mariko alive. Well, even if it is, Clavell decided to do otherwise.. not that I was surprised at Mariko's death but deep down I was really hoping that things could end otherwise.. She was my favorite character :') (hide spoiler)]Anyhow, Shogun turned out to be an amazing book absolutely worth the time to read all the 1200 pages. James Clavell has managed to do it again
(view spoiler)[I was wondering if it's possible for Shogun to have a decent ending and keep at the same time both Anjin-san and Mariko alive. Well, even if it is, Clavell decided to do otherwise.. not that I was surprised at Mariko's death but deep down I was really hoping that things could end otherwise.. She was my favorite character :')  (hide spoiler)]Anyhow, Shogun turned out to be an amazing book absolutely worth the time to read all the 1200 pages. James Clavell has managed to do it again.
