https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3228917-outliers
I kept thinking, "I've just got to put in more hours if I want to do better." While I can see a different way of spinning the data provided to support Gladwell's argument, I didn't care.
While many will not go on to big colleges out of high school, I feel like given enough opportunity and time they could make it there.
(Yet, another limited opportunity to spend time focused on developing skills.) In the past week, I have shared Gladwell's thesis with my students.
We have applied the 10,000 hours to master a task to reading and writing.
What first appeared to be new insights are nothing but familiar landmarks, previously unrecognizable because of the adoption of a deliberately mannered perspective; even the once apparent breadth and nuance now seem triumphs of language over logic, the apparent inevitability of his arguments an illusion conjured by the spell of his limpid prose.Take one small example from "Outliers." With a flurry of standardized test statistics, Gladwell makes the case that the traditional summer vacation--however rewarding it may be for the middle class--is just not working for the poor.
(I'll concede the point, for the sake of argument, but any high school teacher will tell you how suspect conclusions drawn from such statistics can be.) He then presents a sustained anecdote about a successful all-year-round secondary school in a poor neighborhood.
First to Ruth over lunch, then to mum on the phone, and then the kids after they had just gotten out of bed in the early hours of the afternoon – my poor children, I’ve told them virtually the entire book.Now it is your turn.As a culture we tend to believe that people who are successful (people like Mozart, Bill Gates, The Beatles) all are ‘self-made-men’ and have risen to the summit of achievement on the basis of some incredibly special power they have and that we do not.
This book isn’t about Lady Di, but it is about a series of biographies of people who have become incredibly successful.
Any time a woman was mentioned, it seemed she was a wife or mother helping to boost a high achiever to success - or, in one case toward the end of the book, a somewhat slow female math student that a male professor had videotaped trying to figure out a math problem.
By the time we got to that vignette, it was so ridiculous that Joe and I both started laughing, and Joe joked that "the only woman in the book is dumb - but persistent."When we got home, I Googled "Gladwell Outliers sexist" or something like that and found that several female bloggers and columnists also were ticked off about it and had taken Gladwell to task for it.
Occasionally insightful, but Gladwell's science is pretty junky. His reasons for success change by the page. And he cherry-picks examples to exactly fit the scheme under consideration. Plus, he's obsessed with callbacks and summary statements that only showcase the faulty connections between ideas.
At its heart, it has two themes: (1) That success depends not just on talent but opportunity, and (2) that success (and failure) also depend on the cultural legacies we inherit from our forebears.
Likewise, students who happened to be older for their class scored higher on math and science tests than their younger classmates, and were more likely to be picked for "gifted" and other advanced programs.
Bill Gates, Steve Jobs, and The Beatles all had unique opportunities to have lots and lots of practice in their specialties at an early age before becoming successful.3.
Even with all this evidence it feels like he's pulling in examples that fit his theory and ignoring others.
Thus while we look at many examples of geniuses who got lucky we do not look at Einstein which seems strange as he's the best known genius of the 20th century.
While the book can be summarized in one sentence, the individual chapters are interesting such as the chapter that discusses a plane crash that happened in New York because the pilots were too subservient to make it clear to the air traffic controllers that they were almost out of gas.
Doesn't seem likely though.He also explores how the timing of your interests can really change things.
He also talks about a major law firm in New York that benefited from getting the kinds of financial cases the other law firms wouldn't deal with, only to explode in popularity as the money days of the 80s and 90s struck.I thought the book felt like it suffered from data mining, in that there didn't seem to be enough exploration of other equally successful groups that may not have had the same advantages.
People are criticizing this book because it is not a journal article.
I have read plenty of journal articles in my own field (law).
I'm in no position to read journal articles in fields outside my own.
Having a well-written piece of mass-market writing is just the thing I need to access this information.Another criticism of the book is that Gladwell is the "master of the anecdote." Well, it seems to me that ALL SOCIAL SCIENCE is in some sense anecdotal.
If a good anecdote gets you to look at a situation in a new way or makes a powerful point, that's excellent!
I didn’t entirely love it.Although the author makes some interesting points, I find some of the correlations he tries to draw a little silly.
And when the author is making sense, I feel like he isn’t telling us anything we don’t already know.
One of the few things I do find interesting, however, are differences noted in the way children are raised and the fact that some degree of entitlement being taught to them early can actually be beneficial as they mature into adulthood, mostly because they’d be able to use this sense of entitlement to demand higher salaries and better job positions.Regardless, this was my first experience skimming.
Well, it's official: Malcolm Gladwell has run out of things to say.His prose is still lively and entertaining, and he maintains his famous I-look-at-things-differently-than-anyone-else attitude, but "Outliers" has so little meat that it would have more appropriately been published as a magazine article.I think that the main value of reading Gladwell is that he plants a seed in your brain that encourages you to seek unconventional explanations for familiar phenomena. That's a very healthy thing, and I'm not trying to disparage its significance. But if you're looking for a book that provides meaningful insights, "Outliers" isn't it.
Recommend to: If you like exploring phenomenon beyond their appearance and if you enjoy story-telling writings about factual subjects, here: successWhat this book is about: Here, the famous columnist, Malcolm Gladwell deeply investigates the topic of success and people or nations with far beyond average achievements whom he calls "outliers" to figure out what has contributed to their accomplishments.ProsThe way Gladwell observes and concludes is so enticing and far different from what you might think about why a phenomenon has happened.
Because the cut-off date for kids joining the hockey league is January 1, those born right after have to wait about a year to join.
But then again, you have to be blessed with the ability to have those hours of practice rather than being forced to survival.His main point is that societies and culture and even timing (like birth) make up a lot of who people are and why they become "outliers." That an outlier doesn't really exist because it's a person who is a product of their surroundings.

It seems like Gladwell wants to say that the myth of the "self-made" person is not true, since every successful person has had help and lucky breaks along the way.
So either the main thesis falls apart -- that if you are privileged and lucky you will be successful, or it becomes something completely prosaic, such as "Gates worked hard, but he had some unique breaks".
I'm not seriously arguing that, but it is an example of Gladwell making a connection between two things that is far from proven.The book is best read as a series of colorful essays on some interesting topics.
"Outliers" those wildly successful people, for whom 'normal rules don't apply.' Are they just lucky, talented?
Their sound was born of the 10,000 hours of performing in Hamburg -- more than other groups could amass in years of playing.Success is timing, and hard work...10,000 hours of practice required.
I know Gladwell has an essay in TELLING TRUE STORIES, about narrative journalism, and I enjoyed reading this, more aware of the craft he practices...nonfiction storytelling.When Bill Gates admits he was very lucky, Gladwell hammers home that point.
Talent and opportunity can help, but success is hard work.
I don't know about Malcolm Gladwell. I've read 3 of his books. All of them fine, but nothing special. All of them fairly superficial with nothing original or innovative. I think his books are very pop culture and should be read in the time frame (say within a year) that they are published. Too long after that and they become stale, not prolific or prescient. Gladwell is a very good and interesting writer, but I don't think his books have much depth or staying power.Almost 3.5 StarsRead on kindle.
لنتخيل أن معظم هذه القيم متمركزة معاً في منطقة ما من الرسمة، ولنتصور أيضاً قيماً أخرى قليلة مبعثرة بعيداً عن زميلاتها..
محلقة بعيداً عن الأغلبية.في علم الإحصاء، فإن هذه النقاط أو القيم البعيدة تسمى قيماً شاذة أو متطرفة –Outliers باللغة الإنجليزية- والكلمة تطلق كذلك على كل ماهو خارج السياق الطبيعي ضمن مجموعته.
كيف وصلوا لهذه الحالة من التفوق الخارق حتى صاروا أمثلة تحتذى؟ كل واحد منا يقول أنه يريد أن يصير مثل أحد أولئك العباقرة، فهل هناك “خلطة سرية” يسعنا أن نركبها لنحقق ذلك؟ أم أن الأمر هو خارج نطاق الموهبة والإرادة البشرية التي طالما علقت بمشجبها إنجازات تلك النخبة الفذة؟ الكتاب يميل لهذا الرأي الأخير.
"If only I'd read this book earlier," the old man sighed.
The only thing I have 10000 hours practice is of scrunching my nose when my wife farts.
Right in the kisser, I tell you boy.""Er...but wouldn't that have landed you in jail?""Ah, I would have done good in prison, boy.
Life dealt me the wrong hand." "Then how would reading the book earlier have helped?"He looked at me incredulously.
I would have waved the book at everyone who looked at me as a loser.
This wasn't fair.He shook his head and sighed prodigiously.
My boss gave me this book on my 30th birthday.
So, shouldn't specific ideas and remedies be offered in such a heavily lauded book?
If Outliers had contained, along with it's excellent sociological perspective, some specific solutions, and had it also delved into some of the psychological aspects of success, it could have been a great book.
But it did neither, and frankly, it isn't a great book.I'm not saying that Outliers didn't change my paradigm a little bit.
But this shift in outlook is minor, because the premise of the book was already intuitive to me, and it probably is for you as well.
All considered, I think three stars is what this book deserves.
Here is my animated review! youtu.be/5HUjk6Zf0xgThis book made me think about the advantages and disadvantages connected to the birth date, place and few other things most kids can't change.
For me that is amazing, I am easily distracted and seldom retain most information, ADHD yep.
Some of the information seemed stretching, borderline ridiculous, but there were numbers to back the claim.
I found his research on the learning systems around the world and the KIPP program the most interesting.
It was just another wake up call for American school systems.
I listened to this one and want to read it now so I can spend more time thinking about the revelations he explores.
I think it was one of the best information books I've read on this subject.
Wow! This book was incredible. This goes directly on the very tiny pile of books that I can say have drastically shifted the way I understand and view the world. I know I've heard this author's work referred to many times in other books and IRL, but I didn't realize how much of a paradigm shift in understanding human success and reality it actually was. I'm both sad it took me so long to finally read this, and happy that I finally did!
I'm starting to think that all Malcolm Gladwell books are the same thing - a rather ordinary/non-controversial statement about life which is padded with pretty neat examples and then praised as revolutionary, thus selling millions of copies.Main thesis is that social ability is a greater guarantee of success than mere intelligence.
For intelligence, Gladwell relies on IQ, which is an unreliable and discredited method for this job, at best.The main idea of the book is somewhat interesting, but the reasoning simply does not stand up to scrutiny.
Reason is not enough - your mere instinct and sociability can supersede them.Given 2 stars because the basic idea is not wholly false.
In just one week, this book transformed a relatively normal woman into someone who's been saying, "Well, in this book I'm reading. . . you know, Outliers? Yeah, there's this section on. . . there's this part about. . . You should read this chapter. . . No, no, just wait here and let me read these 3 pages out loud for you. . . Have you read it? Oh, you haven't? Let me just show you this one page, it'll just take a minute!"I can't think of one reason why you shouldn't join me in my enthusiasm.
I listened to the unabridged copy while driving to/from Thanksgiving. Gladwell's books are often controversial because he tends to present only one side -- HIS side -- of an argument and gloss over anything that doesn't jive with his view. That said, the guy knows how to write and how to tell a story. His examples of why our success may be due to random uncontrollable factors like birthdate, family upbrining, and cultural background never fail to make me think "huh...that's interesting!"
According to the scientific literature, the average sport-specific practice hours to reach the international levels in basketball, field hockey, and wrestling are closer to 2,000, 4,000, and 6,000, respectively.
In a sample of Australian women competing in netball (sort of like basketball but without dribbling or backboards), arguably the best player in the world at the time, Vicki Wilson, had compiled only 600 hours of practice when she made the national team.
And uses anecdotes that supposedly prove his points.I saw a couple of minutes of the most famous such preacher in the U.S. right now, Joel Osteen, who holds forth in a retrofitted basketball stadium in Houston.
This has got to be Malcolm Gladwell’s best book yet, and coming from a fan like me, that’s saying something! As the subtitle states, this is a book of success stories, and true to his usual style, Gladwell draws on a diverse and interesting set of examples and presents a unique thesis on the ingredients it takes to make a person a success. The first half of the equation is much like Carol Dweck’s thesis in  Mindset: The New Psychology of Success . Hard work matters much more than raw talent. In
As the subtitle states, this is a book of success stories, and true to his usual style, Gladwell draws on a diverse and interesting set of examples and presents a unique thesis on the ingredients it takes to make a person a success.
True, successful people have to put in many hours to master their craft, but they can only do that when the circumstances of their lives allow it.
My job as a parent is to create practice opportunities for my kids to exercise their talents and interests.
“We cling to the idea that success is a simple function of individual merit and that the world in which we all grow up and the rules we choose to write as a society don’t matter at all.”“Who we are cannot be separated from where we’re from.” Blog ¦ Bloglovin’ ¦ Tumblr ¦ Instagram
A well-researched subject put down to plausible conclusions through inductive reasoning. Gladwell did a commendable job in bringing this subject of success into a logical paradigm that is both palatable and eye-opening.
