https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1059856.The_Dud_Avocado
I just got out of the bed of some Frenchman."It's the 50's and American Sally Jay Gorce is young, attractive, slightly disorganised and ever so keen to come to Paris on the wealth of her Uncle, to have a bloody good time!.
Through the haze of late nights and smoke filled rooms it takes a while to figure out Sally Jay is in fact an aspiring actress, trying to break into the business through some associates of hers, She is living in the city of lovers thanks to some loot donated to her precisely for this purpose by her kindly Uncle Roger, who apparently understands her "predilection for being continually on the wing".
But, usually, Paris.Once upon a time, Sally Jay Gorce kept running away from home.
He doesn't even want to hear from her for two years.
And the voice of Sally Jay Gorce is unique, colorful, inspired.
When they actually behave worse, I am frankly incredulous.She is incredulous a lot.This is the way she writes:And here's where the Greek Tragedy part comes in.
For my question was answered, and answered before I had time to put the button hook on the question mark, by the arrival of Lila, the old, old flame of Larry, on the arm of Teddy, the old, old flame de moi.In a brief afterword, Elaine Dundy explains that 'The Dud Avocado' is semi-autobiographical: All the impulsive, outrageous things my heroine does, I did.
American Innocents abroad, but the most adorable iteration of it I've ever read.
This oozes charm out every pore, or would if books were porous objects- which I suppose paper is, isn't it?
Anyway, this is another one of those "why haven't more people read this?" books.
It's wish fulfillment that starts at fantasy and almost ends at reality- but not for this champagne and bubbles girl.
It's also funny and sweet and naive but can also be dark and never quite loses touch with the actuality of being a passionate young girl trying to break the mold and make it on your own.
Her escapades involve getting into acting, falling in love at first sight, and becoming the mistress of French monsieurs.
The quasi-sophisticated heroine blabbers on about rather uninteresting events, in a way that I associate with that colleague that lacks the ability to look at herself with objectivity (there's always one) and dumps all her mundane life events and relational dramas on my plate whenever she manages to corner me in the copy corner.
And I'll end up humming politely while catching myself daydreaming of dropping her in the Amazon rainforest with a small rucksack to, you know, give her something substantial to whine about, like belly button egg laying cannibalistic flies.

This delightful confection about a young girl, Sally Jay Gorce, in Paris has the kind of timeless voice that one can imagine sounding piquant and fresh in just about any decade of the last century, right up until today.
Wearing the right thing is a learned skill, but what I could tell her is that people always wearing the correct attire either never go anywhere or change their clothes a lot.Sally Jay is on a learning tour of Europe but she doesn’t really like travel, which is why she’s settled in Paris.
Sally Jay never had much success with avocados…her center perhaps was not hard enough.This book is about 250 pages but it reads like a novel one-third its length.
The Dud Avocado is like a haphazard cross between F.
Scott Fitzgerald and Henry Miller, although funnier than Fitzgerald and less philosophical than Miller.
It has young broke (but not poor) white people bumming around Europe, and when the plot isn't happening there are a lot of descriptions of the artistic milieu of Paris and the random debauched nightlife.
So much more fun than I was expecting.
And I had so much fun getting there that I didn't care at all.
Thanks to Greta Gerwig for getting me to finally read this!
At one point, she says, "I feel as if I'd been wandering through life like one of those comic-strip characters, while right, left and center buckets of paint were falling off ladders, and cars were crashin into each other."There are a lot of book somewhat like this one, but none of them have Dundy's touch for characterization and voice.
My characters all sound the same because I never listen."The Dud Avocado is the 20th Century's answer to Daisy Miller, and a whole lot more fun to read.
If navel-gazing were a sport, Elaine Dundy would win olympic gold.
True to form, she only frequents other expatriates—except to experience the thrill of becoming the maîtresse of local men—giggling at one point with her neighbour "at the absurdity of knowing a Frenchman in France." A flawless portait of self-absorption by an author not entirely devoid of writing talent, but without a single interesting thing to say.
The Dud Avocado should one day be studied in anthropology courses, but never by students of literature.
Abandoned at pg. 128.This was awful. Just awful.
I know it seems crazy to say, but before I actually stepped onto it, I had not been aware of its existence.
I began floating down those Elysian Fields three inches off the ground, as easily as a Cocteau character floats thru Hell...Knowing, mocking send-up, of the adventurous innocent-abroad genre...
All you had to do was sit there at the beginning of an evening, feeling pristine and crisp, combed and scented, and order your very first drink (it could be something as innocent as a lemonade), for them to indicate by the slightest flicker of their merry eyes that they were aware as you that you were taking the fatal step down the road to ruin...
My apologies to anyone who liked this book, but I couldn't stand it.
It reads like a grating mix of Sex in the City, modernist stream of consciousness prose, Dickens, Sybil (the book/ movie about dissociative identity disorder), something by Thomas Pynchon, Breakfast at Tiffany's, and the Real Housewives - all on ADHD, and in Paris a few decades ago.
Again, so sorry, normally I am a very generous and open reader, and I desperately wanted to love this book, but I found it completely annoying and was unable to connect with it or give any damn about it whatsoever!

"The Dud Avocado" chronicles the adventures of Sally Jay Gorce, an American bon vivant living in Paris (pink hair; a married Italian lover; once ran away to become a bull-fighter). A delightful cross between "Breakfast at Tiffany's" and "A Moveable Feast". I can't believe this progressive novel was written in the fifties.
"You know, these American girls are just like avocados." "A hard center with the tender meat all wrapped up in a shiny casing." If someone were to describe this book to me I would definitely find it appealing: 1950s Parisian setting; a young American girl experiencing freedom for the first time, falling in and out of love, arms wide open to adventure.
In the afterword, author Elaine Dundy claims that Ernest Hemingway praised her characters for all speaking differently.
You can't even describe this as a "coming of age" story because Sally Jay truly didn't seem to learn anything.
Strangely enough, Dundy claims that the book is based on her own youthful adventures .
Charming and evanescent, Elaine Dundy's novel of the madcap adventures of a young expatriate in Paris is a whirligig of a book.
Plus it's one of the best portraits of being young (with all of it's self-centered cruelty combined with self-doubt and developing knowledge of the world) I've ever read.
Sally Jay Gorce is the narrator of this coming-of-age tale, a 21-year-old American in Paris in 1955, and of course the “dud avocado” of the title.
As one of the many tiresome older-and-wiser men who populate the novel explains to her: “You know, these American girls are just like avocados….” His avocado arrived and he looked at it lovingly.
With a couple of exceptions, the male characters are all like the avocado eater: endlessly patronizing as they pat the narrator’s hand, ruffle her hair, invite friends for dinner (“You can’t cook…why, good Lord, Sally Jay, I thought every girl knew how to cook,” p.
The Dud Avocado is the type of novel you go into not really knowing what to expect and just let it take you on a journey.
The whole novel felt just like Sally Jay’s life, no plans, no direction, just taking it one day after another; we may have an adventure but sometimes we don’t.
Like I said before, I don’t want to spoil the journey, I think something really interesting has been done here and it is worth looking into.I’m a little surprised this was set in the late 1950’s, this sort of sexual freedom normally goes hand and hand with the 1970’s.
Elaine Dundy knows how to capture a scene.
The parts of the book where something is actually happening work like gangbusters.
If you are anything like me, this scene will pull you in.
And you’ll assume that the rest of the book will continue in this fashion.
But the book has other plans.
Every so often there will be another great scene, well-told, but most of the time you’ll find yourself skipping over large paragraphs of filler material and plot twists that seem kind of pointless.
This book has a pseudo-memoir feel to it, and when memoirs have structural problems, you can’t really blame them because, hey, that’s life.
I'm really mystified, though: I was totally sure that I'd read a glowing review of it by Emily Gould some time ago, but the internet is hiding it from me or something.
Was it not Emily but someone else?
She sleeps with men and drinks too much and loses her passport and breaks hearts and eats decadent food and falls in love day after day after day, with a bullfighter, with a childhood pal, with a married man, with being young and without responsibilities in Paris.
Get it, it's so lovely!
This is a favorite of his, and I certainly wasn't disappointed - you'd be hard pressed to find a better light reading experience.
It's an innocent abroad story - Sally Jay Gorce travels to Paris, pursues acting, loses her virginity, and does all the funny things you'd expect an inexperience girl to do in a foreign city.
It's laugh-out-loud funny, and how can you not like a book with great lines like "they were so violently individualistic as to be practically interchangeable" and "it's amazing how right you can be about a person you don't know; it's only the people you do know who confuse you."
How can you not love a novel in which a man wears a suit made of pool-table cloth?In the first chapter, the narrator, Sally Jay Gorce, remarks:"You know how it is. Some people can hack and hack away at you and nothing happens at all and then someone else just touches you lightly on the arm and you come...yes, I mean that's what happened. I came."Wowza!
Oh man, why don't we read this instead of Catcher in the Rye? It should be that famous. Too much sex-talk, lesbians, and liberated women I guess. And while I wouldn't like the narrator if I could meet her in person, I really valued being shown somebody so different from myself. And the writing! Why don't we read this instead of Hemingway!? I ask you. I'd take this over 1000 old fishermen.
It happens rarely like that in my own life but when it does, man.The thing about Sally Jay is that she isn't likable, particularly, to the reader.
There's a bit more of an innocence about Sally Jay, who picks bad friends more than she does wrong to people herself.Things take a bit of a dark turn in the latter third of the book, but by and large it's a light-hearted European adventure, and rather than something to dread, I'd put it in the category of, say, Lucky Jim and Under the Net, which are also among the funniest books I've ever read.
the dud avocado reads like a witty woman's take on the sun also rises, with the pink-haired protagonist sally jay gorce, an often silly struggling ingenue, going to parties, falling in love, and trying to find herself in paris in the fifties.
eventually, she goes on a road trip to spain where she ends up as an extra on a bullfighter movie, and partying some more.
unfortunately, for me the book began to drag while she was there, and i found the ending was rushed, grafted on, and out of sync with the rest of the book, though i expect fans of happy endings will find it just right.
meanwhile, i fell in love with the main cad.
Elaine Dundy is sort of an American Colette.
There's even a bit with a cat.The precocious young American girl in Paris has certainly been done before but our heroine Sally Jay has a lot more self awareness than the typical innocent abroad and at the same time she still manages to get herself into all kinds of amusingly compromising situations.
Dundy can give one or two details about a character which are so spot on that you immediately feel like you've met this person.
I certainly recognized many of my own foibles as a young girl in Paris.
More 2.5 stars
This is a pretty good novel dealing with a (very) young girl making her mark romantically in Paris during the late 50's. Elaine Dundy's background is quite interesting. She was married to theater critic icon Kenneth Tynan as well as wriing a much admired biography on Elvis and his mother.I met her briefly during a reading for "The Dud Avocado," and she sort of strikes me a a Louise Brooks type of character. Super book smart, lived a great life, and sexy.
Sally Jay is a class act; riotously funny. Definitely a book NOT to be read in public; you will "laugh, scream and guffaw" just as Groucho Marx did. Sally Jay Gorce, with her pink hair and distressing clothes problem, is a riot. To unleash this girl on an unsuspecting Paris is a cruel and unusual punishment - those poor Parisians. This is a must read. 4.5★
Review to follow.
