https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/54028.Endgame_Act_Without_Words
Defining his work by "existenial" or "absurd" -whether in a positive or negative context- is as reductive as defining Faulkner's works as "Southern" or Dostoyevski's as "psychological." Beckett strived to create original works that reflected his preoccupation with complex ideas of philosophers (Descartes and schopenhauer)and psychology (Young and Freud) He also belonged to the liteary generation (like Eliot and Joyce) that wrote with the classical western literature in mind.
Beckett, like any other serious author, failed at times but he was always committed to his art and honest.
I also am not sure why some reviewers conclude the difficulty in understanding Beckett is enough reason to dismiss his work.
I do not understand most of Quantum Physics but I don't conclude it's meaningless.
All life long, the same questions, the same answers.I read this in a hospital.
This morning.
The patient was someone I don't know very well.
It was thought that my presence would afford authority.
I am not sure about that.
The senseless ritual of life is unveiled in a drab flourish by Beckett.
I love it.
This isn't is powerful as Godot.
There's no hope here -- for other than Death.
There is memory and within that there's reverie, there's a lilting note which conveys.
I can sit and ponder the motives of the many gathered in this plush internment.
I can also sit and not ponder.
The set of Endgame resembles a skull, with two high windows on the left and right.
At centre stage sits Hamm, in a chair on casters, with a bloodied handkerchief covering his dead.
At left, two garbage cans covered with an old sheet.
The garbage cans contain Hamm’s parents, Nagg and Nell, legless and helpless.
Beckett described Hamm as ‘a bit of a monster…the remains of a monster’.Such action as there is constitutes time filling, and all the characters (with the exception of Nell, who is beyond caring) are waiting for something, though they have no idea for what.
"We do what we can.""We shouldn't."
A world where all would be silent and still, and each thing in its last place, under the last dust."Begin rant: I'm getting a little tired, alright, a lot tired, of people ignoring the conclusions reached by literature and philosophy.
Many of us in the so-called modern age seem to recognize that all this human suffering and death is meaningless, useless, and that to limit the body count we'd be better off going extinct sooner rather than later, and yet most people continue to inject fuel into the vast, malignant, death-engine by procreating.
Much has been said about Endgame and the existing literature has almost exhausted its interpretive capacity.
But for me, Act Without Words is a far grater work in its brevity and universality.
I loved its each and every moment...
It dramatizes the way in which we, as human beings, are trapped by elemental workings of life and how nature creates mirages of desire and fulfillment only to leave us frustrated and unsatisfied.
The moment when the only character refuses to play according to 'preset' rules of the game by reacting indifferently to the mirage of 'the water' was very thrilling to me and was rebelliously illuminating.
Both plays use the same pair of, respectively, clever and dim-witted primary characters (Vladimir and Estragon in Godot, and Hamm and Clov in Endgame) presented in a gray, macabre setting.
I've tried to like Beckett, and I do, but I can never seem to get over the weird kind of dreamy aesthetic he uses in his writing.
There are several other quotes from this play that toy with the same idea, but my favorite one would have to be this:Hamm: What's he doing?(CLOV raises lid of NAGG's bin, stoops, looks into it.
Pause.)Clov: He's crying.(He closes lid, straightens up)Hamm: Then he's living.Probably my favorite Beckett line ever.
While Eliot ultimately reaches Christian conclusions, Endgame circles around nihilistic ideologies of nothingness.I love this play for what questions it sparks within me.
However, the great problem with postmodernism (which Beckett has been considered one of the firsts), is that it's an ideology which leads to hopelessness and despair (as it furthered the ideas of Nihilism and Modernism).
The implication in the end of Endgame is that their lives will continue to circle back around with no escape.I recommend this play for writers or people who like to ask existential questions.Review written: Dec 28, 2013
Brilliant poetry. Embrace the pauses and sit in the work until it becomes uncomfortable. That's the only way to truly enjoy Beckett.
Last month, I read Samuel Beckett's  Endgame (3 stars) so I am just reviewing the second play included in this book, Act Without Words.
Although there is also the element of suicide here particularly the thought of it and the rebelliousness when the narrator did not move at the ending scene when the carafe or water was dangled within his reach right in front of him.If Waiting for Godot (4 stars) and Endgame (3 stars) are stage plays and All That Fall and Other Plays for Radio and Screen.
I don't know why but I somehow love Beckett. I think it is how little he says that startles my brain into fascination.
A friend recently gushed at me about Beckett's Endgame and about his plays in general, about the fascinating worlds they inhabit, and the characters they create.
But Endgame feels like a much more elaborate and absurdist version of the same thing.
While it's unusually easy to visualize these pieces onstage — Beckett is precise and thorough about his stage directions and descriptions — reading him tends to make me feel like he's trying to capture the irritability and hopelessness of a depressive episode, and surround it with words, but that the words themselves don't much matter.
Maybe he's one of those people whose intensity comes across from heated discussion, or watching his works be performed live and feeling a tension between the physical presence of the actors, with time to think about it all in your seat because that is your only choice in that time and enclosed space....feeling the grayness of it all.
...for a person who keeps reminding you life has no point and beginnings and endings are cyclical, it really makes you think if what you want to do with the little time you have is try to sit through reading this play.
Despite Endgame having similarities with Waiting for Godot, it somehow has a different vibe.
Beckett provides more context to the characters and their actions, and I feel as though I my interpretations are more linear; there is less variety among alternative scenarios.
The play has a type of closure, whereas Waiting for Godot is followed by a sense of anxiety in me.
However, that anxiety is the exact thing that makes Waiting for Godot prevail each time.
It was either Beckett that was inspired by others, or others by him; either which way, whenever I encounter such a reenactment, it leaves a strong impression.
I read it aloud with some of my apartment mates, and getting to hear the pacing that Becket carefully sets for his dialogue, along with catching the intonations he describes in the stage directions, really helped the bizarre, bare-bones story connect with me far better than it would've if I had just read it to myself.
If you're looking for a compelling and confounding place to start exploring absurdist plays, or simply want to hear some real good dialogue, read this.
Bizarre...
In this play, the characters are bored with life, simply playing a game, until death. It's not my type of play. A short mime follows at the end. Mime is not something I really enjoy either. All-in-all, this was not a good read for me.
عباره عن ثلاثه اقسام يتحكم بيها راو غير قادر على عمل شي و لا اتخاذ قرار مجرد ان يقص قصص و فقط عباره عن عبث في عبث هذا الراوي الذي يتحدث عن الموت و الحياة العادية و فقط لم تعجبني مجرد كانما اجتمع الكلام ل ان لا يكون له معنى
My take is that I am making for myself a permanent rule: if the words “French”, “surreal”, and “existential” are words that describe the play or book I should leave it at the bookstore, and run away as fast as possible.
The play begins with a man sitting in a recliner center stage covered by a sheet, while two other characters are hidden inside two large trashcans stage left.
The two characters inside the trashcans have an exchange about biscuits and love and some shared memory about a trip.
Instead I thought I'd pick up "Murphy", in which you were actually doing something quite different than this existentialismish drying out and wringing out into chiseled down existence or chiseled down language or chiseled down forms, and it really threw me for a loop, Beckett, but I still didn't enjoy it, not so much.
Don't get me wrong, I didn't mind the stripped down stuff, but not because your "formal innovation" is so damn "significant", or not enough to put your name near the top of a list, as so many like to do, Beckett.
Is this goodbye forever?
آخر بازی همراه با در انتظار گودو، از مهم ترین نمایش نامه های بکث محسوب می شوند. عنوان و طرح نمایش نامه از بازی شطرنج گرفته شده، وقتی که چند مهره بیشتر برای دو حریف باقی نمانده. شخصیت های "آخر بازی" به مثابه آخرین مهره ها در صحنه ی شطرنج زندگی هستند. این نمایش نامه ی بکت نیز به فارسی برگردانده شده، و اگر مجموعه ی ترجمه نجف دریابندری منتشر شده باشد، "آخر بازی" یکی از آنهاست.در مورد "تیاتر ابزورد" اینجا را بخوانیدhttp://www.goodreads.com/author_blog_...
Beckett. What can I say? Better than Harold Pinter. There's Theatre of the Absurd, and then there is Theatre of the Asinine. I'm not sure which category this falls into. But it's Beckett, and it's a must read if you're a student of modern Theatre... which I used to be.
Oh hey Beckett. I see what you did there. You're very clever. Pat yourself on the back.
Sorry, no comments except to say just READ it please!
I just didn't get it? This rating will probably change once we've discussed this in class. Maybe some analysis will help me figure out what the hell it was all about.
The tip of the end is the meaninglessness and salvation of another beginning.
(he pushes himself painfully off his seat, falls back again)Dig my nails into the cracks and drag myself forward with my fingers.(Pause) It will be the end and there i'll be, wondering what can have brought it on and wondering what can have (He hesitates)...why it was so long coming.
It works by the same quandary as the liar's game in logic.
Their facet is to remind the players of the world, of life, of the path the game has lead thus far.
With no end, this is not much of a game, is it?
So i don't get carried away and end up playing this game forever, right?
The absurdity here is that even in the face of desolation - of an ending, we resort to our routine.
Even as our routine becomes the very vehicle of our self-loathing, we, like the handkerchief, remain - to play.
Or do we linger, watching, to begin again.What I adore most about this, and most other of Beckett’s, work is the comedy.
And it’s as if Beckett knows his comedy will be lost among the desolation.
In the end, we will all become a version of Clov, Hamm, Nagg and Nell, but this does not mean we must succumb to the depression of routine.
I read Endgame almost immediately after reading Waiting for Godot.
I felt the latter play would strengthen my chops for the former.
I’m not sure it worked out that way, though.
The symbolism in Endgame is much more abstruse than Waiting, as is “the events” in the play itself.
I seem to remember at some point reading some Bloom who made a gallant go of explaining this unique work to me.
I may need refer back to him before tackling Endgame a second time.
This follow up to Waiting is considered a favorite by the lit critics and is sometimes acknowledged as Beckett’s masterpiece.
One character, Hamm, can't stand, i.e. uses a wheelchair.
Hamm can call Clove with a whistle, but fears that Clove will leave at seemingly any time; Clove does not know why he stays, and contemplates whether to wander the wasteland.It's from these simple one sentence precepts that Beckett constructs a wrenching world, and perhaps one of the most true and wrenching portrayals of being disabled in an able society that I've ever seen.
The play is slight, and the characters are arch, but they pull on you, at you, and closer to you.
I cannot imagine someone who does not interrogate themselves or the world or both after reading this.
