https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/336248.Shambhala
Trungpa occasionally delves into esoteric territory (e.g. the chapters on invoking drala, or magic), but for the most part, his message is simple: wake up, be present, have the courage to embrace reality as it is.Unfortunately, this book might be a little confusing for someone with no prior knowledge of Buddhism, so I can't really recommend it as a beginner book--except to those few with the intelligence and natural curiosity to bear with Trungpa despite his idiosyncratic writing style and tendency to go off on weird little tangents.
It will cut through your bullshit and bring you back to reality--like being punched in the face by a bodhisattva.
Once we can accept this, then we can begin to move forward in "uplifting our lives."A great deal of chaos in the world occurs because people don't appreciate themselves.
This book has been an invaluable guide for figuring out how to approach and overcome fear in my life.This book can be a lofty and awkward read at times, but if you're open, I think it's an excellent place to begin figuring out how to overcome many things rooted in fear (anger, stress, depression, resentment, etc.) It will at least provide a different way of looking at yourself and the world around you, and I think that's always something worth checking out.
Realization: It doesn't matter.Last year I read Cutting Through Spiritual Materialism, also by Trungpa.
Both it and this book are the kind you can read, chew on, chew on, then come back to.
If you've ever wondered how to delve into the layers of your psyche without the use of drugs, pick up this book.
The use of imagery is particularly helpful as a part of practice, aiding the reader with memorable visions of what it looks like to act honestly and from your own heart, versus acting from a cluttered mind.
His words cut like a knife to the heart of the matter: recognizing ego's machinations.
The first part was really interesting, the second part definitely lost me, and the third part was a mix of the previous two.
Mostly what lost me in the second part was Trungpa's constant redefining of words to mean something only vaguely similar to their normal usages.
I know sometimes concepts don't translate well into English, but I really wish he could have come up with a better substitute or just used a closer Tibetan term.
After finishing the book and taking a step back, some of his overarching concepts were interesting, but mostly I think this book just wasn't for me.
Hmmm, once upon a time Trungpa comes out to a large audience waiting to hear his lecture.
He was late.
When he finally appears, dead drunk, he stumbles to the mic and states simply, "You read the book" and walks away.
For this the people in attendance had paid five bucks.
I'm glad that so many Americans have found Buddhism to soothe their agnostic needs to have a God who does not exist but as the author of this book states about his final (and arguably best) text, "it's secular".
Trungpa was a freak and he died an alcoholic death, swollen liver.
People occasionally ask me if I attended Naropa University.
My response is that if I was an adult when I chose were to attend university I would have attended Naropa University.
This popular text by Naropa's founder is required reading there.
Not that different from other introductory Buddhist texts, this book is nice breath of fresh air, or a foot in the door for those wanting to learn more about Buddhism (or just the whacked out life of Chogyam Trungpa).
Now that I am nominally an adult, would I still choose to attend Naropa University?
For those interested in methods for the edification of the heart and spirit without relying on ghosts or Flying Spaghetti Monsters, this book is a must read.
Yet interestingly enough, most of what Trungpa is saying is mirrored in the more profound aspects of Christianity, especially in the exegesis of scholars like Bultmann or Tillich, provided the reader doesn't get hung up on cosmetic differences but thinks about the *meaning* of the words.
I can recommend this book with an open heart equally to atheists and skeptics and to the religious, which is special enough; the excitement that comes off the page and into the reader's heart is of a different order entirely.
I've probably read this book five or six times; I just seem to know when I need to.
Supposedly it is talking about a secular practice that is not specifically Buddhist, but it's quite apparent that Buddhist thought and practice are behind it; only the terminology has been changed.
Somehow or other I find this to be Trungpa's most inspiring and accessible book, and am always very much inspired by it.
It's about basing your life in meditation practice, and learning to live out of that.
Trungpa's life is a puzzle to me, but his teaching always seems clear and beautifully phrased.
I can't say it's bad without really trying to implement the lifestyle described, but I've read other similar works that were more inspiring.
While reading the explanation of the ego, will etc.
I was suddenly inspired to quit smoking.While there's nothing wrong with what's being said here, it seems aimed at the complete Western novice.And though it shouldn't directly reflect on the work, I can't completely forget the tales about the author, an alcoholic who died at 47, and some scandals at the Boulder center.
Inspiration from the ancient Tibetan Kingdom of Shambhala as a means to strive for an enlightened society in modern times carries powerful messages.
These and related characteristics are the "true face" of the warrior.Recognizing and appreciating the basic goodness of life as it is, being compassionate to yourself and others, and living each moment with genuineness sounds simple but as we all know is anything but simple.
Hence the need for teachers and guides (or whatever term you want to use) where Chogyam Trungpa is one that we all could learn from with this book serving as a foundational guide for a path well-worth traveling.
I can’t claim to have understood the whole book, but the early and middle chapters contain some surprisingly good suggestions for improving one’s attitude and life experience.First of all, the word warrior is used in the Eastern sense.
It seems to be more about practicing meditation and believing in the goodness of the world and the goodness of oneself in preparation for sharing one’s talents with the world.
He also gives some specific meditation instructions that are fairly easy (except for the crossed-leg sitting on the floor part, which I skipped).The book goes on to some more esoteric Tibetan symbology as well as quoting from children’s literature amongst its practical advice.
There's a lot of wisdom shared on right living and the path of a spiritual warrior.
I'll share a few with you.Chapter One: Creating an Enlightened SocietyBasic secular human wisdom can solve the problems of this world.
They are expected to return here to help save humankind from destruction, one of these days.
Drala means energy beyond aggression and helps you see the world as it really is.
"You actually experience being able to connect yourself to the inconceivable vision and wisdom of the cosmic mirror on the spot."That should be enough to give you a sense of what this book contains.
Also, I really appreciated Trungpa's work on redefining much of these concepts, giving them a brand new meaning devoid of any selfish or negative connotation.However, on the didn't-like-it-so-much side, which is why I gave it 3 stars (although that's still a "I liked it"), is what I find is a lack of specific instructions on how to develop these attitudes.
This is understandable from knowing that there are specific training programs in Shambhala centers around the world, but I still miss some more details.Other than that, very interesting book in which a Buddhist approach to living life is adapted for the Western mind.
The Sacred Path of the Warrior is an amazing and rather interesting read.
This book is more of a philosophical and psychological read, so its perfect for open minded people, especially those that are interested in human adaptation and interaction in the world.
He also explains how meditation benefits the body and mind by creating synchronization.
Even if you aren't interested in that sort of thing, the book is still very intuitive and relevant to a great majority of people.
I would highly recommend that people should at least read a chapter or two because its such a cool and different take on self awareness.
I try and live my life by the wisdom contained in this book. It focuses on the rising sun and not the setting sun, a great way to adjust one's outlook on life. I try to read a few lines from it every week even though I have read it many times.
This book changed my life tremendously.
Finally finished. Meh. Some good stuff but really preachy as well. Just not my style.
You can actually let go of your depression and embarrassment about being a human being, and you can cheer up.""Bravery is the courage to be - to live in the world without any deception and with tremendous kindness and caring for others.""Good behavior is not meant to build us up so that we can think of ourselves as little princes or princesses.
The snow lion is vibrant, energetic, and also youthful....The warrior of perky is both humble and uplifed, as well as fundamentally youthful.Outrageousness is symbolized by the garuda, a legendary Tibetan bird who is traditionally referred to as the king of birds.
But these qualities of the dragon do not stand alone without the meekness of the tiger, the perkiness of the lion, and the outrageousness of the garuda....Inscrutability is a state of wholesomeness within which there is not gap or hesitation.
Probably a mercy mission of my mum's , Boo was a dog who would go on to live to be a canine senior citizen of big dog 15 years.
It may be a stereotype yet reading Shambhala reminded me of riding or running under the trees on a long hot day with Boosie soaking up every experience until we buried her under the sniffing tree on her favourite run.
Another mate of mine was a bloke who also "lived life alive," appreciated the small stuff and more often than not was the mate who would greet shenanigans or planned adventure as if it would be crazy NOT to do it.
Through years of meditation I have come to the realization that we have the lost our appreciation of this wonderful world we live in.
We have created a mechanized universe that separates us from our appreciation of the simplicity we can only experience as creators.
This separation slowly diminishes our appreciation of nature.
We are no longer Numinous ( in awe of nature or our universe).
Meditation can provide the means of looking back into the history of the universe embedded within every individual and connect with the newness without the confusion generated by past and future.
The man who wrote this book is, flawed, human and yet he held a position of spiritual authority.
The early chapters seemed familiar to teacher and student alike who are versed and familiar with Buddhist spiritual practice.
It became apparent that this part of the book was highly conceptual for the teacher and the class.
For example the author likes to use words like renunciation.
The teachings seem similar to Dzogchen, yet no word so foreign are ever used.
So long as one is willing to accept the author's human failings one is able to embrace very practical teachings.
One could characterize Fight Club as 'black hat' and Shambhala as 'white hat'.100 Tips is a book of tactics for practitioners of the game of go [aka baduk].
A better word might be struggle.Fighting among humans has evolved from the direct — viz fists — to the abstract such as jobs, classes, politics, games and efforts such as ‘the fight against cancer’.
But these struggles resonate because the underlying concept is so primal.I award three stars to each of these books.
Trungpa uses the concept of warrior to present his suggestion of advancing the timeless awareness of reality, which he calls drala.
I've visited Shambhala centers across Colorado, including the beautiful stupa tucked away in the country, and pretty quickly came to the conclusion that their practice is not for me.
It's hard to find writers who can be simultaneously insightful, scholarly, and humane, but at his best Trungpa nails it.That's why I was hoping for a bit more from this book.
It makes me wonder if Shambhala practice was different in Trungpa's day, less somber and self-serious...
Add him to the long list of writers who could touch something very human alone at their writing desks, but who you'd probably rather not spend an afternoon with.
Trungpa's message is all-important, and the way he lays out part 1, how to be a Warrior, gave me a fresh perspective on ideas that have been swimming in my head for so long -- ideas of how to live a good life, how to be radically authentic, how to be genuine and gentle and soft and yet confident and strong.
His wisdom is immense, and this book overall felt like magic.
I'm deducting a star because the last part of the book didn't quite resonate with me the same way -- Trungpa goes a little too far into making up terms, giving us too many ways to think about seemingly the same thing, and, as another reviewer mentioned, redefining terms that already mean something.
Over the years I've read a great deal of Eastern philosophy.
Shambhala as a philosophy and way of life is the most enticing perspective I've come across.
There is great truth in this work for those of us in the present moving always into the future.
The Sacred Path of the Warrior is not about worshipping some comic book deity or trying to answer the big questions.
Moving through and waking up to the Great Eastern Sun World.
Great bathroom reading for those who are bobbing on the surface trying to figure out which way to swim.
I read this as the introductory book into Shambhala Buddhism and indeed, if you have participated in any Shambhala Meditation centre, their introductory levels of training programs go through what is in this book.Shambhala Buddhism distinguishes itself from other forms of Buddhism in that it takes the Tibetan myth of the city of Shambhala as an inspiration for an enlightened society.
Starting with the second half of the book, I found that the Tibetan concepts that he introduced were increasingly more difficult to relate to--but this he has warned, it is because we have not disciplined ourselves to arrive at such a state of being.

I recently started going to a local Shambhala Center, and a friend gave me this book to read.
The concept that everyone is basically good is refreshing but was hard for me to digest at first, having spent most of my childhood learning that humans are all inherently sinful.
Shambhala, to me, is like going back to basics and returning to innocence.
Remember what it was like being a child and being fascinated with the world?
That is how I think of Shambhala.
This book explains this concept very well, and I feel like it provides a nice foundation for someone just starting to explore Shambhala principles.
I'm pretty well versed in Buddhism, specifically Zen; a few years back I read entire shelves of the stuff at Barnes and Noble, and I recently got my philosophy minor by taking the American Buddhism capstone and going to a church basement full of old people to sit zazen.This book was mostly poignant Buddhist analogies about how we stress ourselves out for no reason, and the cure to this is sitting the fuck down for a little while.
Aside from that, it was a really good, insightful book, full of good advice, that has convinced me to sit the fuck down in the morning and at night again for like, 5 minutes.
