https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2819.A_Circle_of_Quiet
NOW AVAILABLE FOR KINDLE / E-BOOKI’d be surprised if the majority of readers have not read “A Wrinkle in Time.” It is undoubtedly her most loved book, although the road to a publisher was a rather long journey.
If there is a tomorrow.” For me, the topics that grabbed me the most were her descriptions of the surroundings of Crosswicks, their home in a small town surrounded by woods, and reading, although I enjoyed reading all of this.
This is a perfect use for a reissue...republishing the memoir/journal of a woman who truly thought about her life, her family, her writing, teaching, and her place in the world (and not in any grandiose sense).
And there is careful thought here, about not only her family, her writing, her life, but also about the major questions of all life: good and evil, the presence or absence of God, how should children be taught meaningfully, how should one try to live a meaningful life.
If, like me, you only knew L’Engle through her Wrinkle in Time children’s series, this journal should come as a revelation.
In this journal (published 1972) of a summer spent at their Connecticut farmhouse, L’Engle muses on theology, purpose, children’s education, the writing life, the difference between creating stories for children and adults, neighbors and fitting into a community, and much besides.
It is that we have to try; to put it down in pigment, or words, or musical notations, or we die.[And a lovely exchange from Wrinkle about free will (the book went completely over my head as a child; I think I’ll have to read it again soon):]Calvin: “You mean you’re comparing our lives to a sonnet?
oh was I surprised by how much I adored this book, how much it launched my spirits, my curiosity, my desire to write and to immerse myself in art.
I hope one day I can face the world with such grounded certainty, such room for mystery, such a lack of fear.A friend of mine said this: "[L'Engle's] God is so big and magical and mysterious and magnificent..." I love this about her!
and "[her] overall view of art and our connection to God make me feel a little more alive just for having read her."So true.
Timing is everything. I was ready for this one at this time. Nothing fancy, just a long summer’s afternoon discussion with a friend. I just listened. While this book could be considered dated, I found it strangely prescient and relevant.
I'm just now realizing that for most of my life until the past few years, I've felt like my existence in this world was somewhat of a mistake.I've turned to Wrinkle and the other books in the Time Quartet over the years whenever I feel frustrated, restless, lonely, ugly, or even just bored.
She reminds me to have faith in the world around me and in life.I have a feeling this is another book I will be turning to time and time again.
Perspective.That's what this book gave me. Not the kind that comes from seeing someone else's life and contrasting it to your own, but instead the sort that comes from deep introspection. Whew. It was exhausting.Five stars. Totally a five star read.
I read this after visiting a great friend who gave me a copy, and fell in love. I loved that she is a writer and a "normal" person at the same time. The unashamed honest humanity of it. And the beautiful musings on being, and being happy. The passion for ontology. Good for anyone trying to feel peaceful or normal or just wanting to share in someone else's life for a while.
Madeleine L’Engle, beloved author of such Newbery winners as A Wrinkle in Time and A Ring of Endless Light, begins her series of four memoirs with A Circle of Quiet.  About : Wife-mother-writer. This is how Madeleine refers to herself, and it’s just one of many things that make this book feel so relevant. I can hardly believe A Circle of Quiet was published almost half a century ago; and I am so glad Open Road Integrated Media is republishing it as an ebook. L’Engle is an irresistible study in c
Madeleine L’Engle, beloved author of such Newbery winners as A Wrinkle in Time and A Ring of Endless Light, begins her series of four memoirs with A Circle of Quiet.
I say the book “breezes” through this period because I felt light, reading much of it, as I already have wrestled with many of her concepts in her other works; but for readers new to her bewildering assortment of convictions, the experience of reading a L’Engle memoir may be less of a breeze and more of a gale.A Circle of Quiet examines creativity, cosmology, science, God—all the big questions.
Crosswicks, the name of this series of three books from which A Circle of Quiet is the first title, is the name of the place in NJ where she had a summer home.What I appreciated the most in this book were her thoughts about art, writing, youth.
The article gave me a good insight of something I felt while reading this book and others similar to it, (such as The Life Giving Home, by the Clarksons), the problem with books that tell about our lives.
I loved this book so much, I read it in small pieces so I could savor it. A Circle of Quiet is one of my favorite books of the year, maybe even of my lifetime. Ms. L'Engle's voice speaks so assuredly, winding bits and thoughts that seem somehow unrelated into a profound yet simple point over and over again. I especially love her shared experiences about her writing career, her family life, her quiet solitude, and her faith. A beautiful, much-treasured book.
The kind of book that I will never consider fully read, as it will be constantly re-read. A book to dip into and quote when things get tough. A book to inspire and guide, whether you agree or disagree with all that she says. A book all women writers, especially mothers, need to read.
Gorgeous, insightful, fascinating. Mothers and writers and thinkers should all read this first installment of the Crosswicks Journals.
I'm copying a few of my favorite passages on writing here, as much for my own benefit as anyone else's:I think that all artists, regardless of degree of talent, are a painful, paradoxical combination of certainty and uncertainty, of arrogance and humility, constantly in need of reassurance, and yet with a stubborn streak of faith in their validity, no matter what....I am often, in my writing, great leaps ahead of where I am in my thinking, and my thinking has to work its way slowly up to what the "superconscious" has already shown me in a story or poem.
Originally published in 1972, this meandering journal has sections that are definitely dated, even obsolete.
And like much of Madeleine's work, especially her non-fiction, it is overly mystical and in-your-face Christian for my tastes.
(She doesn't even get the number of days of Chanukah right!)Nonetheless, it is a lovely, sweet read, about parenthood and marriage and communities both large and small.
About the repeated rejections of Wrinkle before it was finally published -- and won the Newberry.
About aging and about staying in touch with the child one was.Definitely a must-read for anyone approaching (or in) middle age, and for writers dealing with rejection slips.
Read my full review at jenniferneyhart.com I loved this book so much! And reading this reminds me of how much I love Madeleine L'Engle and how much I want to read (and re-read) everything she wrote!I shouldn't really be surprised given how much I love L'Engle's Wrinkle in Time books. And this book gives us her thoughts on everything from theology, writing, children’s education, writing books for children vs. adults, and more.There is also encouragement here for those who want to see their own b
Read my full review at jenniferneyhart.com
And reading this reminds me of how much I love Madeleine L'Engle and how much I want to read (and re-read) everything she wrote!I shouldn't really be surprised given how much I love L'Engle's Wrinkle in Time books.
And this book gives us her thoughts on everything from theology, writing, children’s education, writing books for children vs.
You can’t name a major publisher who didn’t reject it.
And it dealt with evil and things that you don’t find, or didn’t at that time, in children’s books.
From this circle of quiet, she writes about many different things.
Of course she talks about creativity, writing, art,and teaching throughout the book and she often uses other famous authors in her observations.
But for those points alone, and for whatever things will be meaningful to you, this short book is worth a read.Recommended for people interested in memoirs, writing or Madeleine L'EngleThis book was provided by NetGalley and the Publisher in exchange for an honest review.
This is the second work of nonfiction that I've read by L'Engle, and her nonfiction confirms her as one of my favorite authors.
I love her style, her sense of humor, and the way in which she expresses her beliefs, simply yet profoundly and beautifully.I read this book aloud with my dad, and we both loved it.
It's the first book that I've read completely with him.
It's nice to read aloud because of the beauty of L'Engle's writing.
Although I've heard of L'Engle, I don't recall ever reading any of her books, even the more famous Wrinkle in Time.
I had, wrongly, assumed this was fiction but found that this series of books are pulled from L'Engle's personal journals.
If she feels a subject is too harsh or complicated, she will make it a children's book because children are more open and not yet close-minded to ideas.
Very interesting ideas are put forth that make a lot of sense.Looking forward to reading the other journals in the series.
I don't agree with L'Engle on lots of things, but I agree with her on lots of other things, and I came away from the book feeling refreshed, revived.Other favourite books on living I'd tag as self-help: The Importance of Living by  Lin Yutang A Room of One's Own by  Virginia Woolf (a book about writing is basically a book about living) The Prophet by  Kahlil Gibran -- this one's a bit embarrassing, but I did like it, and it would be unworthy to exclude a book from a list for fear of appearing naive or obvious or uncultured.
That would be behaving like that silly LJ community that made you list your top 20 books and then judged whether you were elite enough to join them, and never did anything else.
I just read this book again and it is still at the top of my list of favorite books.
I needed this little jolt to jump start my reading again.
I have not been reading as much lately and needed something to change that and this book did that for me.
I guess I just needed a refill of greatness to fill my tank and get me back on the right track.I really wish I knew something flowery and wonderful to say about this book.
The world has changed so much yet the important things are still the same.
Wonderful.L'Engle speculates on life and love and the nature of the universe, not to mention writing. Oh, the writing! It's fascinating to hear from a Newbery-winning author, someone whose work I've loved and whom I've looked up to since I was a child, and realize how similar we are in our quirks and fears and insecurities.But what a hilarious, beautiful, intelligent woman she was! I'm anxious to get the rest of the Crosswicks journals, and I'm severely put out that her non-Time Quartet children's books seem to be mostly out of print! Grr.
Library. Want to own.Another memoir for the year. Based at least partially on her journals and the writing of A Wrinkle in Time, L'Engle writes about her own journey to faith, ontology, time, love, writing, and joy. She writes with such beauty and honesty about her life during this period: her life as a person and what that means. I can't wait to read Summer of the Great-Grandmother.Commonplace entries here.
L'Engle is currently one of my favorite authors, and this book pretty much sums her up. A Circle of Quiet is a book about ontology, the study of the world from a bigger perspective in a bigger sphere ( as defined by me, not Webster.) Enough said, I suppose. This book came at the most perfect time for me, and I definitely was deeply impacted by her journal-like writing that takes the reader through L'Engle's mind as she shares her insights and thoughts.
L’Engle points to many issues which still are valid today: American anti-intellectualism, the pursuit of pleasure over happiness, the stark divisions between people of different generations and political persuasions, our abuse of the environment, and of course the education and initiation of our children. There are many gems to be found in her book, even for those whose perspectives are secular like mine.
This book read like the voice of a friend. It's a book I kept picking up simply to spend some time with Madeline, to be encouraged, refreshed. To quiet the creative restlessness in my soul. It reads like a bunch of journal entries, because that is what it is. Otherwise, one would accuse it of being sloppy. It is not meant to be served as a five-course meal, but a rustic weekday supper with the family in a time that feels like it is far behind us.
I think I could read a bit of this book every night forever. It’s joyful and hopeful, insightful and encouraging.
But the way she writes and explains things makes any topic she's writing about fascinating.-------------"...it's amazing what passing the half-century mark does to free one to be eccentric.""When we are self-conscious, we cannot be wholly aware; we must throw ourselves out first.
We not only escape time, we also escape our self-conscious selves.""So the challenge I face with children is the redemption of adulthood.
As our vocabulary expands, so does our power to think.""Sometimes I answer that if I have something I want to say that is too difficult for adults to swallow, then I will write it in a book for children."
2.5I enjoy Madeleine L’Engle’s books for the most part, but ‘A Circle of Quiet’ left me cold. The author rambled amongst remembrances, often leaving me frustrated, and I was put off by a what seemed to be pretension and an air of self-consciousness throughout the memoir.I gave the memoir 2.5 stars because there were a few nuggets of gold buried in the the author’s maunderings - but, overall, I was disappointed in the book.
If you want to read a few hundred pages of philosophical vomit, this is the book for you. It took me almost two miserable months to finish this and I should have just abandoned it. L'Engle rambles on about random events throughout her life, people she misjudged, the "youngsters" she counseled, and takes an entire page to answer "how did you feel winning the Newbury Medal?" Spoiler: she felt joy. Ugh.
