https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40376.Swords_of_Mars
Arguably the last of the truly good Barsoom novels.
John Carter is the narrator for the first time since Warlord, but this is more-or-less a standalone adventure, much in the template of the last few books -- a princess (Dejah Thoris in this case) is kidnapped and the hero has to rescue her in the course of a series of increasingly improbable adventures.
This one begins in the city of Zodanga (which Carter conquered waaaaaaay back in Princess of Mars) before proceeding to more exotic climes, and offers a glimpse of the Barsoomian underworld.
I adore Burroughs' inability to write endings, honestly. It's so endearing.
Gotta love it !
For its first couple chapters, SWORDS OF MARS tricks you into thinking you're getting an atypical John Carter adventure, more of a spy novel than a princess-in-peril yarn.
Alas, however, the book quickly falls back on repeating all the usual John Carter cliches, with Edgar Rice Burroughs basically writing on autopilot.
Especially disappointing was the book's final chapter, which felt like a whirlwind summary of what would normally be an additional 100 pages of story.Here are John Carter's stats for this adventure:Princesses rescued: 2Successful prison escapes: 2Alien worlds visited: 1New cultures/races discovered: 3 Mad scientists bested: 2Insanely gorgeous females' hearts broken: 2Sidekicks attained: 2New languages learned: 1Enemy strongholds infiltrated: 4Enemy airships stolen: 1Alien disguise success rate: 100%Number of times John Carter is saved through sheer luck/coincidence: ∞
After a long hiatus from having John Carter as the central character, he's back! Going to the city of Zodanga in disguise to dismantle the assassins guild, Carter encounters a scientist who has built a ship for interplanetary travel that can be controlled with the mind. A wonderful tale that brings us from Barsoom to it's moon, Thuria, once again in pursuit of John Carter's beloved princess, Dejah Thoris. I almost feel guilty liking these pulp stories so much; but they're just so damn fun!
3.5/5
Υπήρξε ο πρώτος συγγραφέας φαντασίας πάντως που προσπάθησε να δημιουργήσει μια (υποτυπώδη) τεχνητή γλώσσα για τους κατοίκους του Άρη (για την σειρά ιστοριών του Μπαρσούμ με ήρωα τον Τζον Κάρτερ), ενώ οι δημοφιλέστεροι ήρωές του Ταρζάν, Τζον Κάρτερ και Κάρσον Νάπιερ έχουν ξεχωριστή θέση στο πάνθεον των μοναχικών ηρώων φαντασίας.Το πρώτο μυθιστόρημά του που δημοσίευσε το 1912 ήταν το Η πριγκίπισσα του Άρη και είναι η πρώτη περιπέτεια από την σειρά του Μπαρσούμ (όπως ονομάζεται ο πλανήτης Άρης στην γλώσσα των κατοίκων του).
Είναι ένα κλασικό δείγμα παλπ (τονίζω το παλπ) λογοτεχνίας φαντασίας με έναν larger than life ήρωα βετεράνο του αμερικανικού εμφυλίου, τον Τζον Κάρτερ που τηλεμεταφέρεται στον Άρη όπου αντιμετωπίζει πλήθος κινδύνων και κερδίζει την αγάπη της πριγκίπισσας Ντέχα Θόρις.
Both parts of the novel are as fun as can be, although very much different in tone.This novel features very few of the inconsistencies--both internal and with other books in the series--that mar every previous Carter novel.
Fortunately, the air is just fine, thank you, although Burroughs makes nothing of this...surprising, given the pains he had taken in previous books to explain the breathable air on Mars itself.
The invisibility-inducing hypnosis that the moon people use against Carter is a bit much to buy, but that's alright; it's all in good fun.
And this book IS as fun as they get.Oh...one other nice touch.
In my mind, the best John Carter book.
Perhaps Burroughs realized this, and wrote this one to make John Carter front and center again.
In this book, he's taking the fight to the assassins, instead of reacting to events.
I don't want to oversell this, but if you like this sort of thing, it's especially well done.The only drawback is the ending.
Better than the ending of "Thuvia, Maid of Mars," though, where the story just drops off at the brink of a world war that is never mentioned again.
But otherwise, one of the best of the series.

On Barsoom, the city of Zodanga is home to one of the most powerful Martian assassin guilds, and is resistant to attacks by Helium.
John Carter thus goes to the city alone, wanting to sneak in during the day, going by the alias Vandor and meeting Rapas, who proposes employment to a scientist named Fal Sivas.
To try to find a weakness in the assassin guild, Carter sneaks into its headquarters, although he gets trapped and ends up killing a few of them.
Sivas is angry with Carter for sneaking out, and an assassin ultimately targets the Virginian, with his true identity mercifully safe for most of the novel.
An enjoyable story filled with pulp adventure and inventive, creative ideas.
The tale is told from the perspective of Carter who oozes confidence and ease, although things do tend to go wrong in pulp-story fashion, at the worst moment or to move the plot along.There are some very interesting sci fi ideas in the book, pushing it beyond mere lurid adventure and it is well written and gripping even if the characterizations are a bit wooden.
Outstanding stroy line, still thrilling adventure even for the 8th book.
John Carter is back as the main character, this time warring against the organized assassins of Mars. And his wife, Dejah Thoris, is kidnapped!
It's pretty fun and has some interesting new set pieces and races. All the typical Burroughs flaws and strengths. Really makes you want to visit Barsoom.
Great to have John Carter back in the driver's seat as the protagonist in this Mars episode. The story starts out as a sort of unconventional (for a John Carter story) undercover cop story with Carter working the underbelly of Zodanga. Unfortunately the story reverts to type about half way through. The ending was abrupt but I liked it.
She was already in space, on the way to Thuria, Barsoom’s nearer moon!’Blurb from the 1980 Del Rey paperback editionJohn Carter is again the central figure in this story which starts when Carter returns to earth in the documentary prologue to tell his tale of the kidnap of the incomparable Dejah Thoris.Carter takes a trip to Zodanga in order to spy on the Guild of Assassins, and in the guise of the mercenary Vandor, accepts the position of bodyguard to Fal Sivas.
ERB's spaceships do not need airlocks or spacesuits, because any place they land turns out to be conveniently hospitable.It is remarkable how easy everything is for Carter.
On Barsoom, he needed to learn only one language, because all of its peoples speak the same one.
After everyone except Dejah Thoris is saved, the plot is set to fast forward until Carter is suddenly whisked back to Barsoom.
For a while it looks like ERB is setting up a cliff hanger for a sequel where Carter returns to Thuria to continue his search for his princess, but then he just decides to wrap it up hastily and be done with it.
I cannot give this book (#8 from the Barsoom series) more than 3 stars.
Because - contrary to most of the preceding Barsoom books - this story could for 80% or more have been set on Earth (or anywhere in the Universe, if it comes to that).
I liked the former books because of their SF aspects, especially because of the strange creatures with strange un-earthly habits.
In fact - given my criticism above - two stars would an adequate rating, but the Barsoom series as a whole, of which his book is part after all, makes this unreasonable.
It's all very much more of the same, but that shouldn't bother any fan.I did need to take a little out of my rating, with the novel's focus changing a bit more into the realm of political intrigue, which is not Burroughs' forte, as well as JC overcoming several challenges by...thinking really hard.
This leads to a few rather dull sections, and just when the action really starts to move, the novel ends so abruptly that you could easily miss the last paragraph or two that wraps everything up, and mistakenly think that this is the beginning of a two-parter.
Not the best of them.
The Barsoom series in my mind is notable for the pure inventive malarkey that Burroughs spreads liberally over the entire work, whether it be how the protagonist John Carter is spiritually transferred from a cave on Earth to the distant planet Mars for no adequately explained reason, a discussion of the extra colors of the spectrum that propels their air ships through the stratosphere or the calm revelation that the near-human Red Martians are actually oviparous.
This isn't something that has to take place in the degenerate city of the crumbling planet of Barsoom.Things lighten up as the action moves to the planet's near moon, the explanation for which is gleefully preposterous, and the justification for which is equally harebrained.
Lots of intrigue and distrust, like a Martian gangster novel.Then about halfway through (Spoiler Alert!) the assassins strike back and kidnap JohnCarter's mate, the incomparable Dejah Thoris.
The setting is completely new, the details are different, but this second half felt too familiar.The ending seemed rather abrupt as well.
As the last chapter began there were a lot of irons still in the fire.
I thought that ERB might be setting up a cliffhanger ending to be continued in the next volume (as he did at the end of Gods of Mars), but then suddenly everything was wrapped up nicely and neatly, and they lived happily ever after.
“Swords of Mars” is another of Burroughs’s later, more science-fiction infused, tales of Barsoom.
It also marks the return of John Carter as first-person narrator, though it makes little difference to the narrative – there is little of the man who was exploring a new world in the first novels.He is, however, discovering a new world – one of Mars’s moons – in this one, via some of the most preposterous pseudo-science ever created.
And Burroughs was a bit of a master at doing just that!The story is so-so and seems rushed toward the end.
It is perhaps the least of the Barsoom stories up to this point.
John Carter, Warlord of Barsoom, is having trouble with the assassins of Zodanga so he decides to solve the problem with a little extra-judicial killing of his own.
He forms a one-man death squad and heads for Zodanga to kill the assassins, but the assassins counter-attack by kidnapping his princess, Dejah Thoris, and hiding her on the moon.
Luckily Carter knows an evil inventor with a ship that will fly to the moon so he sets off to rescue her.
Definitely in the top half of the Mars series up to this point, Swords of Mars has signs of structure and plotting almost throughout the book, and that wasn't so good for books 4-6, because they lacked the unpredictable momentum of the first three.
But there's a lot to like about this one: adventures in 'ordinary' Barsoom (not seen much since the first book), plenty of John Carter himself (not seen much since the third book), and also adventures out in more exotic locales (featuring both mad science and new alien life forms).
For mid-30s SF, this was a good book.
John Carter decides it's time to get rid of the Assassins' Guild on Mars, something they are un-surprisingly not OK with.
Moon shots ensue.Huh, what?How you get from an anti-assassin crusade to flying to Mars's moon is a bit of a stretch.
Nonetheless, John goes to one of Mars's moons, and magically, it's as big as Mars itself (don't ask, the explanation is beyond silly).
So, cool, lots of new races and monsters and stuff to fight and kill.The book wraps up the ending in 5 pages where 50 would have been more appropriate.
Beyond that, this book follows the standard Burroughs maidens-in-distress/princesses-in-disguise motifs.
And just when I thought that John Carter wold not return as the principal character of the books, this book left me astonished. I would say Im not very fond of the detective-like books, but in the beginning it were better than that. But the thing that attract all my attention, was the travel to the nearest moon, Thuria!! or Ladan. Again the narrative of Mr. Burroughs makes a fascinating landscape of a totally new world hoping to be discovered but in the end turn to be a world totally developed a
And just when I thought that John Carter wold not return as the principal character of the books, this book left me astonished.
I would say I´m not very fond of the detective-like books, but in the beginning it were better than that.
But the thing that attract all my attention, was the travel to the nearest moon, Thuria!!
or Ladan.
Again the narrative of Mr. Burroughs makes a fascinating landscape of a totally new world hoping to be discovered but in the end turn to be a world totally developed and ignorant of Barsoom.
What a twist in the plot...
trully worth it
I think it was really fun, having John Carter as the main caracter again in this book. I find it funny how he never relises that literally every woman falls in love with him.The concept of going to Thuria was interesting, although I would have liked it better if they had found it to be an uninhabitated piece of rock. I really don't know how the Barsoomian "scientists" study the other planets and moons and I think they should be mistaken more often.All in all, it was just as good as the previous books.
Please note, this 5 star rating is based on my long ago memories of this book - I may have read it greater than 20 years ago. I recall reading and really liking it, and even kept the book to read again in the future (something I only do with good, or otherwise significant books). The memories of an old man are sometimes faulty so this could really only warrant 3.5 to 4.5 stars, instead of the 5 I gave it. Once I re-read the book I will update this rating/review to more accurately reflect my thoughts.
Hmm. A good story with John Carter saving Dejah from Zodangan mercenaries while pretending to be a Barsoomian bounty hunter. I found it a little odd that they traveled to the moon of Mars, kind of had to suspend a little to the imagination. While there is a possibility of life on Mars its not very likely on their moons. I mean look at our moon, pretty lifeless. Ending is almost abrupt. Still a good start with all the adventure that E.R.B. can bring. B
