https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/833015.SPIN_Selling
Despite the fact that this book is three decades old (leading to some fairly dated references), it contains some pretty valuable (if hopefully common sense) insight into large-scale sales that should be helpful to anyone wrestling with how to sell more effectively.“COFFEE’S FOR CLOSERS!”Perhaps the most interesting takeaway is that while closing techniques (such as the alternative close, the presumptive close, and the no-clothes close (okay, I might have made one of those up, though let’s face it, that particular technique could prove optimal in certain situations)) are effective when you’re selling smaller items, they actually result in fewer sales when you’re talking about major purchasing decisions.
SPIN Selling explains the science behind consultative selling, or rather, presenting an offer to a potential client, based systematically on the clients pain-points, using a powerful questioning process.The subtitle of the book describes quite well what’s inside; “The Best-Validated Sales Method Available Today.
It’s less intrusive, and ultimately allows the client to present their important needs.A good quote from the book: “People do not buy from salespeople because they understand their products but because they felt the salesperson understood their problems.”What Is The Successful Sales Process?Ultimately, in a successful sale, the buyer does most of the talking, relative to the appropriate questions asked.Furthermore, the author covered the four stages of a sale: opening, investigating, demonstrating capability, and obtaining commitment.One example was ‘obtaining commitment’ with specific actions from the other party involved.
Why are business books so expensive and yet written at about a 3rd grade reading level?First though one thing I found rather interesting in reading this book is that it emphasizes the right way to ask questions and bring someone along an emotional sequence that is optimal for getting someone to do something you want.
Obtaining commitment is best measured by actions at the end of an exchangeInvestigating is about uncovering, understanding, and developing needs of the customer, at its final step you flat out ask if there is any further point or concerns that need to be addressedSummarize key points, especially benefitsDon’t close the sale, open the relationship Someone making a decision is balancing the seriousness of the problem with the cost of the solution, asking implication questions builds up the cost side of the scaleImplicit vs explicit needs (62)Implication questions have a weakness.
Whether you like it or not, all business involves sales in some capacity. Written in 1988, Rackham describes his findings from observing 35,000 sales calls over a period of 12 years. He outlines the sales format that most often led to long-term success (Situation --> Problem --> Implication --> Need-Payoff). The recommendations are authentic, powerful and helpful; this book is a must-read for anyone in business!
In fact, the book gets its name from the four types of questions asked: Situational, Problem, Implication and Need Payoff.
SPIN Selling process Situational questions set the context for asking Problem questions that reveal implied needs, like the desire for a more accurate billing system.
It does not provide tactics on how to use the SPIN method to move up the company’s organizational ladder, trying to get closer to the person who decides what projects get funded.All of that being said, nearly 25 years after the book was published it is still a foundational book on selling to large account sales.
Only then they start talking about SPIN.
Spin is asking different questions instead of only situational questions.
Higher cost requires different approach.
You need to like a person that you buy from on the higher price range because you might need to see them again.Wow really mind blowing.The dude wrote a book about selling to sell himself as an expert, but got so much into recreating fake conversations with made-up people that forgot to use his own advice.
Since I'm in the process of developing a new technology based company, this book provided excellent advice and strategies for selling my type of product. Thanks to Rick Larson and Joe Liblin for recommending it to me.
3. Implication questions: develop the seriousness of the problem; very important in larger sales, as they uncover more needs, which balances out the high price of the item/service.
But if you use a bunch of Need-payoff questions to uncover the problems they face and then at the end you give a benefit statement, then you've avoided objections -- or in normal conversation, we call this actually listening to people.

Yes, this is a sales book.
But it is a sales book about not being a creepy salesman.
The basic jist is that small sales involve shysterism -- and give salespeople a bad name.
Consider what it used to be like to buy a TV at Circuit City, where the salespeople operated on commission -- high-pressure, low enjoyment.
But then there is the whole category of large sales, such as selling a large IT system or consulting engagement -- where the “salesperson” is going to meet with the customer many times over the course of several days or weeks, and in which there are multiple stakeholders with multiple agendas.
For people who are keen to improve their skills in selling, this is one book that I will highly recommend.
This is because, the content of the book comes from comprehensive research by the author's company.
And like all wise researchers, the author advises the reader to take some of his pointers with a pinch of salt, because he is not able to say conclusively "This is it!
Follow this and you'll sell".
Rather, he tells you that "This is what we found and PROBABLY will be helpful, but because we couldn't take this out and experiment in a meaningful manner, we think you should apply it carefully."Practical and at the same time very enlightening.
We are all in sales to some degree, and this book can help you when it comes time to communicate a big idea, yourself during an interview, and of course an actual sales meeting.
For over eight years I was in B2B sales, and this book was the bible for my profession.
Rackham doesn't just give the typical superlative-driven mantras about your winning tone and demeanor, he gives an empirically-based study on large dollar sales.
As the reader, you will walk away with a process, a framework for questions to ask within this process, and a reference book that you will find yourself going back to time and time again.
This is truly the *only* sales book out there that relies on actual data and methods that are scientifically valid. We got everyone in the company a copy of this book. It’s also the only book that I go back to daily since I read it.Very well written and impressively well researched. I found most non-fiction books lacking in structure, but SS is organized in a very logical and easy to follow way. It’s nothing but a testament to Rackham’s strengths as a thinker and a researcher.
Do yourself a favor and trade it in for The Solution Selling Fieldbook.This process is disengenuous and antiquated and people now see through it.
I recommend this book frequently! I love the methodology he uses for asking questions that keep going deeper. This is a great method for selling anything -- including your own skills and abilities!
amazing. i hear it's one of few that's backed by research and numbers instead of just anecdotes. learn this and you're set to sell.
Отличная книга от предпринимателя и исследователя в одном лице.Развенчиваются многие мифы в продажах, есть система, которую можно успешно применять для B2B :)
He shows how, in larger sales, closing is NOT the most important part of the process but Investigating.Said that, he dissect the Investigating stage further into 4 types of questions you should ask to discover needs and build value in your clients' minds.These questions are:- Situation questions: how does the actual situation of your client looks like?- Problem questions: are there needs, difficulties, dissatisfactions regarding this situation?- Implication questions: what are the consequences of such problems?
The author suggests you ask questions so that the customers themselves tell you the benefits of your solution.
In a large sale, you must build the customer's perceived value of your solution, and the most effective way of doing that is to ask the right questions.The book is based on 10 years of observing and analyzing over 35,000 sales transactions.
Ask Implication Questions which make the buyer feel the problem (Implied Needs) clearer, larger, and more urgent.4.
Write at least 3 problems buyer may have, then write questions that would uncover them.When customer raises need you can meet, ask Need-payoff question; don't skip to talking about solutions.Giving Benefits in Major SalesTalking about Benefits is more effective than talking about Advantages.
На эту поглядывал уже лет пять и вот только сейчас сел и прочитал.
Если одним предложением, то книга построила в моей голове понятный и ПРИЯТНЫЙ фреймворк продаж.
Возможно, из минусов, это то, что она все-таки в большей степени про крупные, не эмоциональные продажи.
Хотя где-то автор говорит о том, что их исследование называет крупной продажей чек $109.
Книга не про агрессию в продажах, а про разумность.
Здесь нет советов формата "возьми телефонную трубку и звони, пока не почувствуешь, что она понемногу начинает плавиться в твоих руках".
Короче говоря, прочитал с удовольствием.
Надеюсь, что смогу переложить в категории практики хотя бы половину советов.
My favorite introduction to high-end, solution-based selling. If you put "stereotypical used car salesman" on one end of the spectrum (one-time, win/lose, asymmetric information, no reputation), this is the other end of the spectrum.Some of the later books (Major Account Sales, especially) develop this concept better, and there has been a lot of work around team-based sales organizations since this book was written, but it's still fundamental.
Basically, they used a very scientific approach to creating their methodology.Their whole method is based on asking questions.
By asking the right questions, the customer realizes the gravity of the problem he's facing, and essentially sells himself on the solution(Your product or service).These questions are Situation, Problem, Implication, and Needs-Payoff Questions.
You are developing "explicit needs", basically the customer realizes that this problem HAS to be taken care of.Needs-Payoff Questions- These questions are where you ask a customer what the value of solving their problem is and whether it'd be useful for you to fix the explicit needs you developed through Implication Questions.
By closely examining over 35,000 sales calls, he shows a correlation between asking questions and the successful sale.
145)And many other helpful insights.If you have a strong foundation in sales, I would suggest reading this book as a way to cement your understanding of the importance of asking good questions and as a guide to improve your questions.
However, the empirical data in the book is very effective at showing the importance of asking good questions.
If you think asking questions is only something you do before and after a sales presentation, this might be the book you need.
his book was highly recommended, and I can't for the life of me understand why--it's dated, poorly written, and Mr. Rackham needs a new editor.
This is more a book about Mr. Rackham and his research (complete with dot matrix charts and graphs!) than it is a book about new ways to bring customers into your organization.
Maybe I'm just a skeptic, but a book that relies solely on a single source of data should be viewed skeptically.
I got a whole lot more out of Pink's book, which relies on social science research and the behavioral science that helps move people to engage with (and buy from) you.
excellent introduction to the science and art of selling. for those of you (like myself) who career seemingly has NOTHING AT ALL to do with the art of the sell, and/or whose exposure to salesmen are limited to cars, or stores in the mall, or phone solicitors, or the guys in the movie Glengarry Glen Ross, this book will come as a welcome surprise.
Explains the difference between large and small sales approaches and how using the wrong one can be self- sabatoge. Easy, quick read that stays with you in very practical ways.
Benefits	• Show how a feature can help	• Much more powerful than featuresThere are two types of benefits:Type A:Can help the customer - useful in small salesType B:Fulfill an explicit need - useful in large salesDemonstrating capabilities	• Don't demonstrate too early in the call	• Beware of just listing advantages of your product	• Instead, illustrate what problem your solution solves Chapter 6 - Preventing ObjectionsEveryone will receive rejections.
И если в больших продажах авторитетным автором (по крайне мере в России), является Нил Рекхэм, то в малых продажах пальму первенства я бы отдал, конечно же, Фридману с его книгой «Нет, спасибо, я только смотрю».МетодЧто удивительно, первая часть книги мне совершенно не понравилось.
Однако, не смотря на это, я всё же рекомендую ознакомиться со всеми книгами Рекхэма (если есть время, конечно).В самом начале Рекхэм разъясняет суть больших и малых продаж, чем они отличаются и почему требуются разные подходы к ним.
Так что всё дело в правильности определения покупки.ВопросыЕщё одну часть книги Рекхэм отводит теме вопросов – их важности и умению правильно их задавать.


