https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/189811.King_of_the_Murgos
"I like nice, simple situations and nice, easy solutions," said Belgarath."Good and Evil?" Durnik suggested."That's a difficult one, Durnik. I prefer 'them and us.' That clears away all the excess baggage and allows you to get right down to cases."I want a bracelet that says "What Would Belgarath Do?"
She was struck blind and horribly disfigured by the sickness...but they act like her fucking brain was eaten instead.Silk drinks himself into insensibility whenever he has to see/talk to him mom - because no one lets her know how ugly she is now.
Our father stayed by her side for the rest of his life and never once gave any hint about what he saw when he looked at her." Silk's face was bleak, and his jaws were tightly clenched together.
The latter, of course, is a key feature of this and the previous series, but in this book, I have the feeling that this humor is particularly caustic and much more deals with situations of the real world.
The problem, however, is that several times the writer overdones it by giving the book an excessively light tone.
Το τελευταίο φυσικά είναι ένα χαρακτηριστικό στοιχείο και αυτής και της προηγούμενης σειράς, σε αυτό το βιβλίο, όμως, έχω την αίσθηση ότι αυτό το χιούμορ είναι ιδιαίτερα καυστικό και διακωμωδεί πολύ περισσότερο καταστάσεις του πραγματικού κόσμου.
King of the Murgos is the second book in The Malloreon by David Eddings.
(hide spoiler)] Guided by the Orb, the party heads south first through the swamps of Nyssa and then on into the lands of the Murgos.
The first is when the party finally makes it to Cthol Murgos.
And the Murgo King is such a fun character!
I think it's become an unspoken contest to see which can best eachother's cleverness.This reread is reminding me how I've missed reading medieval-based fantasy.
It feels good to go back to my fantasy reading roots.
As much as I love this series overall I felt that in this book not much really happened. The company seem to be just travelling throughout their world in search of Gerion but not getting any closer or much actually happening in the book. There is a few action scenes in the book that make it interesting but I just can't help but feel it was a bit of a time gap filling book. That being said the characters more than make up for it. I love the budding relationship between Silk and Velvet, hes so clueless bless him.
Action, adventure, magic, and danger all make their way into this unforgettable addition to Eddings’ series.
Phenomenal descriptions and world building combine throughout as I was drawn fully into the plot that wouldn’t let go.I love the way that this cast of characters grows and changes throughout.
Ce’Nedra’s less whiney attitude made her easier to swallow here, yet she does still seem quite childish for a queen.
Eddings makes the change in personality easy to understand based on circumstance.
Eddings has done an amazing job with this tale and I definitely can’t wait to see where this series goes from here.
Nostalgia made this a four star read.
It should probably be three star.
I love this series so hard from childhood that it becomes very difficult to read it objectively.
This was when I started giving some scenes the side eye - some of the relationships between the men and the women, the power plays and the idea that they were so different from each other.
Polgara started to piss me right off, with her holier than thou attitude, and I don't that ever went away again.In truth, probably a series that shouldn't be read past about sixteen years of age, but still lots to love.
Originally posted on Once Upon a Bookcase.In King of the Murgos by David Eddings, the second book in the Malloreon, Garion and his friends' quest to find find his abducted son - and the final meeting between the Child of Light and the Child or Dark, as foretold by the prophecies - finally begins.
They end up at the Drojim palace, where they meet the King of Cthol Murgos, Urgit.I loved this book!
I just really like him, and, knowing where the story goes from reading the series previously, I enjoyed all the surprises that occurred along the way.However, there were a number of things that happened in this book that I had completely forgotten about.
This book was just as good as the first one. I'm really enjoying learning about the other cultures in Eddings' world. I especially like that the people of other cultures don't have to be evil just because the religious aspects of their culture are grotesque.
The second in the Mallorean.
This book took me longer than I expected to read it as I was reading this at home and then Matters on the train to and from work.
They took it in turns to grab my attention and it turned into quite a disjointed way of reading books.I still have the same quibbles about the second series that I did with the first book.
Serüven 3. kitabı ile devam ediyor. Okuyucunun ilgisini üzerinde tutmayı başaran fantastik ve eğlenceli bir kitap. Karakterlerin güzel ve ayrıntılı işlenmiş olması seriyi ayrıca ilginç kılıyor.
It is always interesting for me to read through the David Eddings novels I have and see how his focus shifted over the course of sixteen books encompassing the two pentalogies, the Belgariad, and Malloreon, and the Elenium and Tamuli trilogies.The Belgariad series deals with Garion's coming of age story woven in with a dualist plot that sort of took a back seat to the main story, even though it *was* the main story.
In this current series, Garion has come into his own and Eddings was free to focus on his dualism as the main story.
I consumed the two five-book series in a few months, getting in trouble in school for reading when I should have been paying attention (I either didn't care or had already done the homework for whatever it was they were teaching while they were teaching how to do it).When complete, I read the whole series again in half the time.
However, I think reading numerous more modern ‘Urban Fantasies’ has made me more enamoured of the decisive ‘kickass’ hero/heroine, who doesn’t put up with any nonsense.Sometimes I didn’t understand what this group were doing.
Obviously he has a plan, but at times I just find it annoying.If I was reading this for the first time I would probably give it 3 stars, but I have quite a bit of affection for this series so have given it 4 stars.
What makes an Eddings novel so great?Is it his wonderfull fantasyland which we get to explore in great detail?
His rich, detailed background history?
His engaging story?Possibly, but for me there is one thing that sticks out: his characters.
These people are amazing and just can't get enough of them.
The dialogues are amazing, with sarcasm dripping off the pages.
It proves that you do not need to switch to 63 different point of views to keep your novel interesting.
Eddings remains with the same set of character from start to finish and yet there is never a dull moment!
There are definitely more flaws in the plot - it's looser and not as well constructed as the Belgariad, but I don't care! I'm enjoying these stories far too much to be bothered about occasional illogical behaviour by the protagonists.Frankly, I don't know how I'm going to cope when I finish the Malloreon, David Eddings epics have subtly infiltrated my life... a chapter or two with every meal, something to look forward to at the end of a humdrum workday and a few more pages before nodding off at night :)
Ook al is dit in feite het 7e boek in een serie van 10, er gebeuren nog steeds nieuwe dingen.
Je zou verwachten dat het allemaal wat eentonig begint te worden, maar daar heb ik nog niet echt last van.
Tuurlijk, net is steeds weer net aan dat ze het redden, en hier en daar wat toevalligheidjes, maar daar stoor ik me totaal niet aan.
Deze profetie is ook mysterieuzer dan de vorige, ik heb geen idee wie er uiteindelijk overblijven en waar de profetie tot uiting gaat komen.
Wel hoop ik nog steeds op een goed einde, anders word ik gek.
Laugh-out-loud funny and endearing new characters, like the King of the Murgos himself. Garion has become an increasingly strong ruler, determined and decisive, and the developments in him and the rest of the cast adds to the enjoyment of the book. Don't let anyone tell you that the first series is better; this one is just as good, if not better! More action and excitement and faster pacing, Eddings keeps his readers turning the pages as fast as possible to find out the next part.
I remember when I fist read this series, years and years ago, and how much I loved it them. I am glad that that has not changed. There are some things I wish were done differently, the stereotypical gender roles for one. But this is a product of different time and you have to go with it. Once you get over this, it is a great series.
This book is very different to the first one of the series. With a much faster pace this book has some excellent twists and turns in it. This book will make your ideas of certain people change in dramatic ways!
This had a far more compelling narrative than book 1, with some good new characters and revelations. Plus a great cliff-hanger ending.
I forgot how much I enjoy the little reveals in this book.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
After a bit of a stinker in book one it's back to a more classic Eddings adventure in book two. It was good and left a decent ending to transition to book three nicely.
Good. Though, I will admit, it's my love of the characters as much as anything that contributes to my enjoyment of The Malloreon.
An unnecessary sequel22 July 2012 It looks as if a few people have noted that this series is pretty much a re-hash of the earlier series, with the same people just different places and a different villain. Okay, the object that was stolen is also different, but other than that it seems that Eddings simply took the script that he used for the Belgariad, made some slight changes, and made it the Mallorean. I gather that here they must get to the 'Place that is No More' which is always interesting
Okay, the object that was stolen is also different, but other than that it seems that Eddings simply took the script that he used for the Belgariad, made some slight changes, and made it the Mallorean.
Anyway, that aside, we still need to remember that we are in a fantasy world, and not all fantasy worlds have instant teleportation, even if you have a sorcerer that is centuries old travelling with you.
If they happen to have an adventure in every citadel they enter (they don't by the way) it is probably because there are people trying to stop them from fulfilling their quest, or because they simply have to help.
It is significantly more entertaining than the previous installment and it may be the best in the entire series to date (counting back to the The Belgariad, a total of seven books).Here we have the troupe of adventurers continuing South in pursuit of the mysterious Zandramas, who presumably has Garion and Ce'Nedra's son in her clutches.
This clash will be the ultimate destination of our heroes, and of the series.The tale remains episodic, with stops in Nyissa and then an encounter with the desert-dwelling Dagashi, followed by a trip to Rak Urga, where the travelers encounter Urgit, the titular King of the Murgos.
But occasionally Polgara's opinions of and treatment of men is really rather painful to read.The quest begins in Tolnedra, with some things to be accomplished and people added.
Then they move to Nyssa, where things are done & people added.
Lastly they end up in Cthol Murgos, where more things are done and some things are revealed but no people are added.Ce'Nedra is often treated as though she is little more than a child, likely the result of her tiny stature & rather whiny attitude, but she is the same age as Garion.
It's a fantasy series, it written very formulaic to the genre, yet I still find it entertaining enough.Eriond's character is the first to really make me feel like I need to look up spoilers.
I found it amusing how Edding's addressed the fact that Mallorean is very much like Belgariad and in fact almost a a repeat of the same series with a few different characters.
(They traded out some of the less entertaining characters - though I miss Barak!)I'm kinda looking forward to getting through this series though because I want to read Belgarath the Sorcerer really freakin' bad!
