https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/165422.English_Creek
I found English Creek even better than Dancing at the Rascal Fair, which is a favorite with many, not just me.
The weird thing is that "English Creek" is the first of the series but chronologically it follows "Dancing at the Rascal Fair".
I think it is better to read it after "Dancing at the Rascal Fair"!
I love the way Ivan Doig captures the essential both in physical descriptions of the land, the dialog between people and what is essentially important in life.
Some compare him to Wallace Stegner, but I think he is MUCH better.
There is marvelous humor in Doig's writing.
From forest fires to sheep counts, haying season to a whizbang Fourth of July celebration, Jick McCaskill moves through the summer of 1939 in Montana's Two Medicine country.
For Jick it's "The Summer When..." He begins noticing a lot of things, including the fact that "time is the trickiest damn commodity," and he won't be a boy for very much longer.
Because you sure don't have all that much of a handhold." (Ouch!)If you find this book too slow moving but you want a taste of Doig's magic, pick up The Whistling Season.
You can mend the place, peg it and splint it and work to strengthen it, and while the surface maybe can be brought to look much as it did before, the deeper vicinity of shatter always remains a spot that has to be favored.” And I liked this line: “No marriage is strong enough to bear two loads of in-laws.” This is a coming of age story set in Montana in the 1930s.
(I still don’t understand the comment about a two-holer being polite.) Author Wallace Stegner says “It is like a long, strenuous working vacation in new country to read this novel.” Long and strenuous, yes; but definitely not a vacation.
While I appreciate the attraction of this story is the Montana Lore and coming of age trick, I found this book doggedly hard to read. I felt I was being lectured. The basic rule of good writing is consistently violated: 'show, don't tell.' Some delightful imagery did not substitute for lack of action. I read this book as a book club selection and therefore committed to finishing, but I passed over many pages of pure, repetitive description. My instincts tell me this book/story should have been condensed into a short story.
I love a teenage boy narrator when it’s done so right as this.
Not every teen boy is but I know a few personally who are.
He tells the story of the summer when his whole family takes a bend.
There is plenty of forest life description and more haymaking than maybe I needed but that’s just the point I make above.
When you stumble on one of those teenage boys that is a keen observer you are going to have to ferret out the observations in and amongst a lot of words about haymaking.
Be patient and this story will not disappoint.
While that's true to a point, the other truth is that I didn't want to hurry through Doig's story.
If I had skimmed through Jick's memories of the town as he rides in on Mouse, his father's horse, I might have missed something of what life was like in a small town in Montana in the late 1930s: the cottonwood trees lining the streets, Helwig's grocery and merc with its "old-style wooden square front"; the Toggery clothing store, "terra cotta along its top like cake frosting"; Musgreave's drugstore "with the mirror behind the soda fountain so that a person could sit there over a milkshake...and keep track of the town traffic."The plot unfolds without haste through Jick’s eyes and memory, the events of his story set in the summer of 1939, the year before World War II begins in Europe, just before his world—and ours—changes forever.
I have to laugh at myself for thinking it would take forever to read these 300-some pages of dense type, I who think nothing of rereading the 900-some pages of Bleak House over and over.
I thought I wasn't going to enjoy this book.
The Two Medicine country might as well be another of the book's characters.
(I'm sure I've read of landscapes being like novel's characters, but I'm not sure I've ever really thought so before.) There is one extended scene in the middle of the book that makes the whole thing worth reading, if indeed the whole thing were not worth it otherwise.
Family dominates; his brother, who has taken up cowboying for a rancher set on owning the county and has fallen in love with a girl and wants to marry her rather than go to college, is estranged from the family; his father works for the forest service and enlists Jick's help, sometimes on unpleasant tasks; his mother runs the house and is surprisingly eloquent and outspoken when she speaks at the 4th of July picnic about Mr. English for whom the creek is named--but this is Montana, a area ripe for female empowerment.
A book that reminds me of all I love about Doig--his descriptions, characters, language.
But Doig is a beautiful stylist, one of those writers you can enjoy just for his sentences and surprising phrases, not just the larger work.The story is about Jick, a fourteen-year-old in Montana trying to navigate a summer working with his father in the forest service (in a place where fires are the great concern), exploring the history of the relationship between his parents and a mysterious local drunk, and getting used to the departure of his brother, a bright young man who wants to settle for dead end work as a cowhand and early marriage to a local beauty.
I LOVED The Last Bus to Wisdom and although this has a similar tone to it, it didn't resonate as much.
Another coming of age story, this is about 15 year old Jake who is growing up in Montana during the 1930's.
The beauty behind this story is the description of the setting.
The country is suffering from the Depression and even the sheep and cattle farmers in Montana are struggling.
Jake's father is a forest ranger and the whole concept of National Parks is relatively new.
But the story, although sweet, was a bit slow and although the characters are quirky and interesting, there wasn't that much growth.
Igualmente, el padre de Jick es guarda forestal, como Doig lo fue en su juventud.La historia está ambientada en English Creek, en el bosque Two Medicine y el pueblo de Gros Ventre, todos ellos lugares ficticios, aunque con una geografía claramente identificable con Montana y las Montañas Rocosas.
Posteriormente, también nos contará otros sucesos, como aquel Cuatro de Julio y los diferentes festejos que transcurrieron a su alrededor.
De este modo, conoceremos a los personajes más variopintos, pero sobre todo a Jick, un joven ávido por aprender historias y su pasado.‘Verano en English Creek’ es una novela de transcurrir despacioso, reflexivo, para degustar con paciencia y sin prisas.
My favorite of Doig's Montana stories really culminates in this sequel.
The loss of connection that can occur over just one generation, the break in families over time if stories are not told.
The two need to be read in order for the full impact of the families relation ship with the land, the forest service, and other people in the front range region called Two Medicine.When I was reading this I was touring the region by bicycle and happened to stay in at Inn Dupuyer, a B&B run by a woman who grew up in the area and knew the Doig's.
Another quiet book about Montana--this one is set in northern MT along the Rocky Mountain front.
Jick spends the summer trying to sort out what is happening around him, while he takes on one physical task after another in rural Montana: counting sheep with his father, digging a new hole for the outhouse, haying, serving as a flunky for the cook in the fire camp.
His father is a ranger, trying to make sure his region doesn't burn during the hot months of summer, and his mother is a practical and capable woman, terse but opinionated.
For me, this book ranks right up there with 'To Kill a Mockingbird,' and 'The Autobiography of Malcolm X' as far as memoirs - or whatever you call a work of fiction written in memoir form - that convey the moment in time/history that they're placed in as well as the identity of, and personal transformations that occur within, the narrator.
Combine that with the author's patient, contemplative pacing - perfectly suited to the setting of the book in the historical pause between the Great Depression/Dust Bowl and WWII - and the colorful language and phrasing of the narrator and other characters, reminiscent of Norman Maclean, John McPhee, and Mark Twain on their good days, and you've got a perfect story to spend a long afternoon reading out on your front porch.
In Doig's work every character's decisions, and motives, regardless of their immediate concern, are framed by how they will live life on the land in a particular place.
Doig provides a series of beautifully rendered experiences for this young man, assisting a camp tender, haying for his uncle, and accompanying his forest ranger father in the high graze lands on the east face of the Rocky mountains.
A beautiful book of whistful, quiet revelations in the voice of a consummate observer who solves puzzles and builds allegories out of the land, animals and people who inhabit his Montana life.
This is a story of a family, of relationships, of coming of age, of the hard scrabble ranching life during the 1920's and 30's, and the story of a region and its geological and geographical foibles.Doig has a marvelous way with descriptions.
His eyes were within long deepset arcs, as if always squinched the way you do to thread a needle.
And then a flattish nose which, wide as it was, barely accomodated all the freckles assigned to it...."Descriptions of this caliber and better pepper the novel and paint an exquisite portrait of a particular region of Montana.
It takes place during the summer of 1934 in Montana.
Doig does an amazing job painting a picture of the land, the times, and the people of this rural Montana sheep and cow farmland.
The real story though is the story of Jick, 14 years old almost 15.
Jick is the type of person that analyzes everything and everyone.
Doig is a bit wordy as he describes the land....a little TOO much detail.
I would have preferred a bit more about the people....but otherwise a very well written interesting book.
I think this is one of the best coming of age novels I ever read. I'm glad my book club selected it so I would reread it. Growing up in Montana in the early 20th C is depicted beautifully as the 14 year old narrator begins to ask questions.
Much better read the second time around.
This was written before the other two books in Ivan Doig's Montana Trilogy.
Without knowing Doig's intent about doing a 3 part series, I think that defeats what I think must be his vision of introducing Jick and letting us get to know him as a young man without any background knowledge before we find out his family history or later happenings.
Jick is an almost 15 year old who has his coming of age summer in 1939.
The book seemed a bit slower in parts when reading it this time, but not in a really negative way.

Reading this is like taking a long, warm, relaxing bath. In fact, I should have thought of reading it in the bath! You relax into Doig's prose, are lulled by its cadence, charmed by the bubbles, and are contented when you finish.
Loved this book. I am a huge fan of Ivan Doig and I look forward to reading the rest of this trilogy. Wonderful descriptions of Montana and its history. Great characters.
This is a slice of life from one important summer in a young boy’s life. Doig’s writing puts you right in the time and place with the characters. Love his wonderful writing. Marvellous descriptions of the countryside.
The story leisurely unfolds over the summer of 1939 through the eyes of almost 15-year old John Angus “Jick” McCaskill, grandson of Rob McCaskill, this family’s first settler in the Two Medicines Country.
2) How did Stanley Meixell, the straight talking and energetic ranger who set up the Two Medicines National Forest 30 years before end up as a drunken old codger?
Furthermore, what is behind the strange tone of interaction between Stanley and Jick’s father, who is the current Forest Ranger?English Creek brings the Two Medicines Country to life for us and also offers the reader an “up close and personal” view of the impact of the Depression on rural Montana.
Since I always make time to read, I searched my shelves for appropriate books to pack.
This book seemed to be a smoother read than Heart Earth, and I appreciated the attention to details.
Here's a passage (p 106) when 14-year-old Jick takes shovel in hand and starts to dig a new hole for the outhouse.I don't mean to spout an entire sermon on this outhouse topic, but advancing into the earth does get your mind onto the ground in more ways than one.
Unearthing that sod was the one part of this task that made me uneasy, and it has taken me these years to realize why.
A coming-of-age novel set in late 1930's Montana, I'm sorry to say I didn't find it back in 1984 when it first appeared in print.
Better late than never, but I am having problems trying to find the two sequels to this family saga.
This is a tale that requires you to pay attention, but in a mild mannered way.
This is one you will not be able to divorce yourself from while you go through the living part of life.
I found myself impatient to get through work, and supper, that I might get back to the trials and tribulations of the life of Jick McCaskill.
I'm going through a phase where I'm obsessed with reading about mountains and the early 1900s in Western states, so this book was exactly what I was in the mood for: it's a novel about a family living in a small town in Montana along the border with a national forest.
The pace was a little slow -- everything from action to scenery is described painstakingly (kind of like in a short story) but the writing and images were so beautiful and I'm in such a mountain-focused mindset that I didn't mind and even still read the whole thing in one day.
Definitely will read the other two books in this trilogy.
The dynamics of Jick's family change forever over dinner one evening.
As the youngest child in the family, he tries to understand what happened, delving into even the mystery of parents who once were young.
I loved each member of his family.
And I feel I understand one of my sons better by reading about Jick's brother.
I just have a difficult time with the profanity.
Growing up in a farming/ranching family, I am well acquainted with irritation caused by recalcitrant animals, but Utah farmers seem to swear differently than Montana farmers.
So although I loved this book, I'm having a difficult time recommending it to you.
First in Ivan Doig's trilogy of the McCaskill family. I enjoyed reading a novel set in Montana and want to read #2 and 3 in the series. The author makes the northern Montana country near Alberta, Canada in the late 1930s come alive as he plunks you down one summer in the midst of sheep ranches near the Rockies, small town Fourth of July picnics, forest fires, and Forest Ranger McCaskill's family drama (told through the eyes of 14 year old Jick McCaskill.) Ivan Doig recently passed away, April 9, 2015 at age 75. http://eedition2.latimes.com/Olive/OD...
