https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/97864.Monday_or_Tuesday
I barely spoke to my partner today but kissed him and smiled at him while he worked.I read Virginia Woolf.
I read Virginia Woolf.
I read Virginia Woolf.
I read Virginia Woolf.
I read Virginia Woolf for the first time and was mostly astounded.
A Society ( 4.5 stars )A group of young women meet regularly to discuss their observations of men and their own feminine natures.3.
The Mark on the Wall ( 3 stars )A blemish on the wall leads to all sorts of thinking.I am honored to have finally read Virginia Woolf.
I will read more Virginia Woolf very soon.
(view spoiler)[The presence of a snail in both Kew Gardens and A Mark on the wall made me burst out laughing.
A Mark on the Wall is the last story in this collection, immediately after Kew Gardens and she realises that the mark was a snail on the wall.
It made me laugh considering that Kew Gardens was roughly told from the perspective of a snail (hide spoiler)]The only thing that I'd complain about is how she ends some stories.
I love the way Woolf uses words, the way 'thoughts bleed into one another like colours' as Scarlett Thomas says in her introduction, and this demands to be read out loud and as i can not always have Juliet Stevenson or the late lamented Anna Massie on hand, needs must !!My favourite piece is "Kew Gardens" a simple commentary on couples walking and talking and reflecting back and forth to each other, observed by a snail contemplating its own journey across a flower bed.
Some pieces are incomprehensible to the merely mortal, others are simply brilliant evocations of mood, of consciousness...it's in reading this book that I came to the realization that what many people dislike about Woolf's writing can be traced back to the sense one has of Woolf staring, staring, staring, with eyes darting hither and thither, while speaking aloud what most of us simply allow to slide from one eye to the other.I don't think stories were Miss Virginnie's métier, the way they were Miss Eudora's for example, but there is something in each experience of a story in these pages to make one glad to have met with it."A Haunted House," a few brief words, a simple story of a ghostly apparition and her husband re-experiencing their home after death; not much to it, not much of it, but so haunting (!) 3.5 stars"A Society," of women you see, a society that undertakes A Study, frankly uninteresting to me as a 21st century reader, and pretty much a clunker 2.5 stars"Monday or Tuesday" explores simultaneity with simple imagery and makes flight seem magically mundane.
This thin book of short stories started slow for me, but then picked up speed as I began to see the author's multifaceted world.
(More's the pity that she cut short her own life.) Monday or Tuesday is an experimental easel for her to begin to paint the world in a different way.
Take, for instance, these observations from the last story in the book, "The Mark on the Wall":Wood is a pleasant thing to think about.
I like to think of the tree itself: first the close dry sensation of being wood; then the grinding of the storm; then the slow, delicious ooze of sap.
I am strangely fascinated by Virginia Woolf, and that even though I have not read many of her works as yet.
Like any collection of short stories some of the stories are more appealing than others, but all of them show Woolf's creative powers creating the minutest of observations and turning it into a journey of ideas.
What I liked best about this collection of shorts - apart from the witty satire in A Society - was the rhythm of the language.
It's almost like you could read the stories - at least parts of most of the stories - aloud to the beat of a metronome.
Most of the stories veer towards the stream-of-consciousness/prose-poetry end of the spectrum apart from the second story, ‘A Society’ which is pure satire and made me think of Bulgakov of all people; all the others reminded me of Elizabeth Smart who, apparently, was a fan of Woolf’s writing.
It reminded me of why I hate poetry readings and that’s exactly what it sounded like.
As I’m writing this now a couple of hours after finishing the book and a few minutes after listening to the audio recording I find I couldn’t tell you what ‘Monday or Tuesday’ is about.
Or maybe I’m just a bad reader.I’d glanced at her writing before and noted her heavy use of punctuation.
Honestly, I didn't like it, but she definitely had an interesting way with words.For example, my favorite sketch of the eight, "Blue & Green," begins thus: "The pointed fingers of glass hang downwards.
The light slides down the glass, and drops a pool of green." In many ways, more poetry than prose, without being truly either one.
"Once she knows how to read there's only one thing you can teach her to believe in—and that is herself."The title essay, "Monday or Tuesday," is a heartbreaking little blurb about the search for truth and coming back defeated: "Desiring truth, awaiting it, laboriously distilling a few words, for ever desiring—(a cry starts to the left, another to the right.
Some are great and some didn't engage me at all.
One of the biggest obstacles to women's advancement is pregnancy and (typically-- especially when this was written) being the primary (or sole) caregivers of children.Women: stop thinking your contributions to society are worthless.Women: stop idolizing menThis is exactly the type of book I needed in this moment of my life.
My favorite story is "A Society."An empowering read-in-one-sitting book.* * *+ "Chastity is nothing but ignorance-- a most discreditable state of mind.
It is our only chance."+ "Everybody follows somebody, such is the philosophy of Whitaker; and the great thing is to know who follows whom."
It's like a short cut in getting to know one another, rather than being conventionally polite poke your opponent and get them to say what they truly think or if you're feeling out of your depth and thus uncomfortable growl at your opponent to bring yourself back to comfort.Last, Woolf's humor is on display in her story in this collection she labels A Society where a group of women go out into a men's room to explore how they run their affairs in order to determine how women could better run things.
This is a nice volume of stories to start reading Woolf with as we get to explore different flavours of her pen.
1. 'A Haunted House' was the first story in the volume and was beautiful.
'Monday or Tuesday' puts a beautiful twist to the phrase 'from the bird's eye view', and I liked the philosophical angle of petty problems becoming insignificant from a distance which is echoed in her other stories as well, like 'Kew Gardens'.4.
'Kew Gardens' is a beautiful insight into human lives captured through snatches of conversation in a garden.
Another one of my favourites.8.
But from the evidence she brought we voted that it is unfair to suppose that the Judges are men.* chastity is nothing but ignorance—a most discreditable state of mind.
They despise us too much to mind what we say.”* “the truth has nothing to do with literature,”* A good man, we had agreed, must at any rate be honest, passionate, and unworldly.* We agreed that it was the object of life to produce good people and good books.* “Once she knows how to read there’s only one thing you can teach her to believe in—and that is herself.”* for Heaven’s sake let us devise a method by which men may bear children!
This read was no less than a precious piece of art. 4.5/5 - rounded it down. VirginiaWoolf's writing - so fluid, poetry merging into thought, space and consciousness and back to story. You beautiful genius, thank you esp. for 'The String Quartet'.
She jumps from one thought to other, a concept, an idea, a reverie or imagination of poet throughout the stories and I was like 'hang on, how did she come from fluttering petals to a a fifteen years back dragonfly memory to a couple with parasol-and then to the forests of Uruguay?' Everything is single unit like a bead and connected via nothing but a threadbare flight of imagination.
The Haunted house is about the older occupants of house visiting it after death to find their sweet memories as treasure, or of Moggridge, the spirits comes in real world.
This was my first exposure to Virginia Woolf and I think I'm going to have to put her up there with martinis and caviar -- things you're supposed to appreciate in order to seem sophisticated, but really you'd rather have beer and tuna salad.
These stories are all generally pretty short, some just a couple of pages, they are impressionistic, and at times feel rather experimental.
Woolf’s powers of observation and description are certainly what stand out from these eight stories, as ever her prose is simply wonderful.The collection opens with A Haunted House, in which the ghostly presence of the past rub shoulders with the living inhabitants.
The ghostly couple roam the house, reminiscing their past, while the residents of the house sleep.
I adored the descriptions of the silent house, the feeling of the past presence which still exists there.Full review: https://heavenali.wordpress.com/2016/...
Pero valió la pena el esfuerzo, al menos en el caso de un libro como Monday or Tuesday, en el que todos los textos, de los más serios a los más irónicos e incluso humorísticos (no me imaginaba a la Woolf capaz de escribir algo gracioso, y "A society" es muy divertido), destacan por el lirismo del lenguaje.
Tan es así que de las ocho historias que componen este volumen, al menos tres me parecen más ser un poema en prosa que un cuento.
Quizás es preciso imbuirse más en el universo narrativo de la autora para que los silencios y las reticencias de estas historias no resulten desconcertantes.
I've finally managed to read a complete work by Virginia Woolf.
Her imagery when it comes to describing natural landscapes is stunning, her use of words, and mostly the way in which each tale in Monday or Tuesday makes you read twice, to be aware of the fact that our perceptions are perspectives that might not have to do with how reality is.
It also denounces the situation of the women at the time, particularly in An Unwritten Novel and A Society.
It also manages to talk about war in several opportunities, this nonsense, this state of destruction...
Definitely a good introduction to her work.
I really loved some stories in this, and others were just okay. Woolf's writing style never fails to amaze me, and her forward thinking during her time period is also wonderful.
What sets her later novels apart from “Jacob’s Room” is that the latter utterly lacks the sense of unification which allows readers to penetrate into the chaotic web of Mrs. Woolf’s best works and emerge feeling as though they’ve become better, more full-fledged, more fearful human beings.
Mrs. Woolf, whose quintessentially experimental “The Waves” is known to be as astonishingly multifaceted, makes every single piece in “Monday or Tuesday” be told by the same voice – which sort of impoverishes the whole “short story collection” enterprise, with its promise of polyphony.The colourful language is already here, as well as the inward-driven obsession which renders Mrs. Woolf one of the greatest investigators of the human soul in Western literature, but whatever brightness there could be in this collection is utterly eclipsed by its tumultuous, all-over-the-place quality.

None of the stories stood out for me. In fact, I am wondering what I just read. Short stories are supposed to leave a dent on the reader's mind which this book failed at awfully bad. Sure, her style is something, but if it doesn't manage get the reader hooked, it is plain insufficient.
A collection of short stories. I am sitting here with a big question mark over my head. One story in this collection made sense. The others rambled on and on about nothing. What does anyone see in Virginia Woolf? Maybe her other stories are better than these. How did this book get published?
Mais uma opinião e playlist disponíveis no blog http://literaturaabordo.blogspot.com/...
You don't have to pay attention to fall in love with Virginia Woolf, but it helps if you want to understand her.
It's Saturday and Virginia Woolf is not my cup of tea. I'm going to accept this and move on with my life.
So many intriguing short stories, I enjoyed most of them, but my favourite was A Society.
such a beautiful writing
A review at the time, saying things like it was understandable to plain minds.
He left her a fortune in his will, but on condition that she read all the books in the London Library."“Why,” she asked, “if men write such rubbish as this, should our mothers have wasted their youth in bringing them into the world?”	 7 We were all silent; and, in the silence, poor Poll could be heard sobbing out, “Why, why did my father teach me to read?”“Every one of us knows how to read.
While we have borne the children, they, we supposed, have borne the books and the pictures.
When the women of the society question whether the men are keeping up their end of the bargain they embark on a very thorough and utterly delightful investigation.The rest of the collection is a mix of experiments with prose and observation and gives an interesting insight into the development of Woolf’s writing.As a whole the collection feels like the juvenilia of Virginia Woolf.
There are definite similarities to her later works to be found here, and it is worthwhile reading for dedicated fans of Virginia Woolf who want to complete their collection or to observe how her writing developed over time.
