https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17333223-the-goldfinch
But most of the time the book I'm reading is a dull throb beneath my fingers, a soft hum behind my eyes, a lovely way to spend a bit of time in between things as I meander through my life.
The way people talk, my god, there is a Russian character (probably the best character in the book) who learned to speak English in Australia and you can really hear that fucking incomprehensible accent, the hitch of verbs mis-conjugated in just the right ways, the tossing out of slang words in four different languages, so casual and so perfectly apt.
Meanwhile, Theo steals a famous painting, one that shows a goldfinch chained to a perch, because his mother had loved the painting and he wanted to keep it safe.
I'm glad I've read it, but I'm even more glad I'm done with it.Update January 2014I finished this book about two weeks ago and when I talk about it with other readers, my most salient feeling is how anxious it made me.
I cannot think of another novel I've read that made me feel more relieved to have finished it.
The narrator is like one of those panhandlers who stop you on the street and provides too long a story about some travail: my mom and I were just mugged they took her to the hospital and I need to get to New Jersey to tell my dad who’s deaf but first I have to get to the hospital which is like a thirty minute cab ride away in Brooklyn and she needs this medication that was in her purse which got stolen but I didn’t get a chance to tell the EMTs about so I have to find a Duane Reade and get the prescription filled which costs about fifteen dollars if you could just help me out with part of it I’ll pay you back like tomorrow I have my address and phone number written down here I am really embarrassed and would never ever ask a stranger for help like this but this was our first ever trip to New York City and we never thought anything like this still happened but….
I'm not even half way yet and I'm wondering if I will be able to weather this ridiculously long book that keeps getting sidetracked by just about every teenage pothole you can think of.
If you are reading this and wondering if you should finish the book.
-----**Update on 4/1/14After 400+ comments to this review that was never meant for any purpose other than my own entertainment so that I might remember the book, I feel the need to add the following: To anyone wondering if they should still read this book, since reviewers are so divided (eg you either LOVE it or HATE it) : by all means, YES.

Even though I am very important character I must tell you, not worth your time to read this.
(Okay to read beginning, some middle, end) but if was me, better to be having a pop than all the time reading about depressed guy who wastes so many good drugs.
Does not mean should make many people spend very much money on depressing book.
Also honest opinion on how they say everyone is reading this book.
Only good thing can come from reading this book (maybe not even need to finish) is lots to talk about with people.
Theo Decker’s mother is killed in a bombing that rocks the Metropolitan Museum of Art; Theo, unharmed, escapes with a valuable painting called The Goldfinch. He carries this symbol of grief and loss from early adolescence into an adulthood fraught with danger and beset by addiction. The long middle sequence, set in a housing development on the seedy, sand-blown outskirts of Las Vegas, is a standout. Tartt proves that the Dickensian novel—expansive and bursting with incident—is alive and well.
In the end it was, in the words of Bart Simpson, "just a bunch of stuff that happened." A long, mostly tedious read with very little (or no) payoff.If you are like me and finish a book you start no matter what, I would seriously give the reviews here a read before committing to it.
The opening New York sections were excellent, the description of the museum bombing and the whole Mansfield Park thing Tartt has going with Theo and the Barbour family, all of this works beautifully.
Dickens wrote about orphans and other unfortunates who are on the receiving end of undeserved bad luck, but his characters struggle *against* degradation and dissipation.
(Boris is the kind of character who seems to exist only in books and movies: the burn-out loser druggie who is failing all his classes in school but is really a secret genius who reads Dostoevsky and Thoreau in his rare sober and lucid moments.
and maybe i will come back closer to the release date and give more specifics, but i really just want to squee here and be enthusiastic and say: there is so much to like about this book!for example, there is something that is announced at the beginning of the book: one of the Very Big Things that happens in life.
wonderful.and then after that, there's another 700 pages of wonderful.quickies:boris is perfect and i love him.
***Winner of the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction 2014. Congratulations Donna Tartt!*** ”And I’m hoping there’s some larger truth about suffering here, or at least my understanding of it--although I’ve come to realize that the only truths that matter to me are the ones I don’t, and can’t, understand. What’s mysterious, ambiguous, inexplicable. What doesn’t fit into a story, what doesn’t have a story….Because--what if that particular goldfinch (and it is very particular) had never been captured or bor
”She’d never seen a great painting in person until she was eighteen and moved to New York and she was eager to make up for lost time--’pure bliss, perfect heaven,’ she’d said, up to the neck in art books and poring over the same old slides (Manet, Vuillard) until her vision started to blur, (‘It’s crazy’, she’d said, ‘but I’d be perfectly happy if I could sit looking at the same half dozen paintings for the rest of my life.
The story follows Theo into adulthood, through a series of tragedies and misadventures, until at last, he must face the music in regards to the missing painting.
Tartt knows how to keep readers engaged with a compelling plot, yet the story is about much more than what happens to Theo and the painting.
I almost had to stop reading the book when Theo's ne'er-do-well father came on the scene because he was such an ass I wanted to strangle him, but later in the book, Tartt made even that character seem understandable, if not sympathetic.
If nothing else, read this book to meet Boris.
It is a life philosophy, a love letter to great art and a literary version of a painting.
The characters and their stories are conveyed with such beautifully rich detail, they've become real people to me.Gapstow Bridge in Central Park, Manhattan, New York CityThe isolation and sprawl of tract housing in the outer suburbs of Las Vegas.********************************************** There are numerous references and allusions to classic literature woven throughout this book.
Characters in the book find meaning in their life through art and the creative process: Hobie through furniture restoration, Pippa through her music, Fabritius through his painting, Donna Tartt through prose.
Can art give us hope and make life worth living?
Maybe the beauty we encounter in life is what makes it all worth living.
I came within less than 200 pages of finishing it, but I cannot go on.
A brief (and crabby) synopsis of my experience with this book: First 200 pages = This is outrageously excellent!
Five stars for sure.
Four stars, but only if it improves soon.
Next 170+ pages = Drudgery.
The days go by, I'm reading 8 or 10 pages a day at most.
I hate the characters, hate the book, and come to hate the author because she took 10 years to write a book and wants us to take another 10 years to read it.
I finished it.And it was awesome. (Review to come)
Theo makes a lot of poor choices - unfortunately his father's sleazy girlfriend Xandra was right that he is far more like his father than he is willing to admit and yet in some of the best passages in the book, towards the end where Boris talks about Dosto's The Idiot:Maybe sometimes - the wrong way is the right way!
Guess I need to return to the Hague!Her other two books were good, but this one was the best.I was in Den Haag at the wonderful Mauritshuis Museum and saw (again) the original Fabritius painting - absolutely stunning.
They're both interesting characters but remain woefully underused and undeveloped - there's a glimmer of a great plot involving Theo's father and his experiences with those who run the Casinos which is then literally and quite unceremoniously dropped, and remains unresolved for hundreds of pages - and when it finally is mentioned again you almost wish that it was forgotten altogether, since the way Tartt "solved" it is truly that lame.
Yet, I found myself tearing through it as if I couldn't read it fast enough.
I don't know what the secret is to Ms. Tartt's prose, but I dig it.
Tartt writes New York in such a way that I was able to feel the thrum of traffic and smell the bakeries (and the sewers).
It's a character-driven piece in the sense that it's without an intricate plot, or Big Reveals.
It's the characters from which we draw the tension and the pace of the story and it's all so deftly handled by Ms. Tartt that I'm actually left floundering for ways to adequately describe it.
Whilst Donna, looking like what Timothée Chalamet will eventually become, stands defiant, a bouquet of dicks in hand, laughing.Carel Fabritius’ 1654 trompe-l’œil The Goldfinch is an odd little painting.
Donna Tartt’s 2013 novel The Goldfinch is an odd little book.
The rest is a sea of nothing, but it’s enjoyable nothing.People gushed over this book when it came out.
I know, I know, I didn’t like The Secret History.
A similar thing happened with Eugenides’ The Marriage Plot, a fucking awful novel full of characters just like me.
I mean, Theo is insufferable.
The thing with Dickens was it was all plot.
I have been to the Himalayas, Easter Island, Neptune, and Dundee, and never have I encountered words on the page that have rocked me to the core of my deep deep soul as this.
I have kissed Cardinal Ratzinger’s mitre, Warren Zevon’s left pinkie, and Liam Neeson’s elbows, had five marriages and nine divorces, but nothing in my whole entire life compares to when I sat down and read this big-because-the-font-is-huge doorstop that everyone else loves and W.H. Smith agrees is a masterpiece.
We can gaze into our souls and find dark things there, like old bananas or burnt toast.
"We have art in order not to die from the truth."Nietzsche There are books inside which I have wanted to live.
"The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay".
"The Great Gatsby".
Jay Gatsby.
They live and speak and go on existing in my mind, as tangible as the ripples and circles agitating the waters of the river which I can see from my window.
Little fires burning in the winter light.I wanted to live inside "The Goldfinch".
After a few pages, I knew I wanted to follow Theo Decker for the rest of my life and sit quietly in the corner of his mind as he experienced the world.
Then, soon after Theo’s mom described what was special to her about the goldfinch painting they were looking at, a bomb went off in the museum and he lost his good one.
My rule in reviews is not to reveal more about the plot than what the inside flap does, so the only thing I’ll add is that Theo soon finds himself on the outskirts of Las Vegas, the object of indifferent (at best) child care, but able to survive when he teams up with a fellow hard luck case named Boris who could swear in multiple Eastern European languages and was wise to the ways of the world.

And it was so dark!At times I needed to take a break, because it was just so heavy (both physically and metaphorically) some of the themes and thoughts the main character had were so awful, I was feeling depressed just to read it!
Theo’s Mum dies in a bomb explosion in the museum in New York, so he is forced to move to Las Vegas and live with his dad, a recovering alcoholic with a now severe gambling addiction.
When Theo returns to New York he stays with the old partner of the dying man, Hobie, in the antiques shop they ran together.
And Boris- what a ridiculous, implausible character: a polyglot who has lived all around the world in his fifteen years, had dazzling adventures, survived regular beatings from his equally unlikely father, spends a good part of his life starving and/or drunk, and has found time to read Chekov in Russian.
After the initial set-up (Mum dies in a bomb blast at an art museum and Theo washes up an almost-orphan, which takes forever), things just slope along with no real tension, mystery or sense of purpose to drive you from one page to the next.
There were moments when I was so choked with emotion that the boyfriend would pass me tissues as soon as he heard a sniffle.
The loss of Theo's mother, his love of Hobie and Pippa, the comfort of the Goldfinch, the restrained desire for Boris and a few other emotional moments.
These moments were poignant, heavy with gorgeousness and clearly unforgettable.50% was like watching an art house film by Gregg Araki mixed with reruns of Melrose Place.
Tartt creates sympathetic protagonists that you want to root for and fast-paced adventures and predicaments in which you want to see them succeed.Tartt owes a great debt to Dickens in the story's plot, characters, and pathos.
Theo has high and low adventures (hopscotching from a tony apartment on the Upper East Side with the blue-blooded Barbours to a seedy desert neighborhood in Las Vegas after his father shows up to reclaim him).
However, the last 100-150 pages, with its metaphysical and existential pontificating, did little to advance the plot and ultimately caused me to become less invested in the book and its characters.
One point docked for a less than stellar pace of the last third.
Otherwise it's a feast for the eyes and a delight for the senses.The Goldfinch is about maturity and picking up the pieces when life lets you down.
Going on with your life when the portal to hell is opened, is a daunting task.Theo, the hero of this book (kinda), is traveling away from his demons, trying to cobble together enough positive images to keep his sanity intact.
He is stabbed, sometimes in the back.In the end I would recommend The Goldfinch because it's a different book from its contemporaries.
2.5 Stars Goldfinch by Donna Tartt is one of those books that not only are you investing your hard earned money in you are investing a huge amount of reading time as this novel has just under 790 pages.I rarely read novels that are more than 600 pages and if I do they really need to hold my interest and I have to be honest Goldfinch was a very long drawn out novel and the plot failed to impress me although I did finish the book but this was more out of my ability to stick with it than any great interest in how it would end.
My personal FAVORITE book of the year!!!
RIGHT?????2) "Me --well, maybe I didn't have a girlfriend or even any non-drug friends to speak of but I worked twelve hours a day, nothing stressed me out, I wore Thom Brown suits, socialized smilingly with people I could not stand, swam twice a week and played tennis on occasion, stayed away from sugar and processed foods.
I was relaxed and personable, I was thin as a rail, I was an excellent salesman -- everyone said so -- and business was so good that what I spent on drugs, I scarcely missed." I STILL LAUGH just TYPING that SENTENCE!
