https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/307403.The_Dreaming_Jewels
Having read Sturgeon's Some of Your Blood a few years back, I've been on the lookout for more affordable Sturgeon books.
Luckily, I was very pleased with my decision.This story was nothing at all like Some of Your Blood.
This book is difficult to categorize.
An horrific, dark science fiction tale, with humor, humanity and social commentary-these words work well to describe this story.
I liked this book, I liked it a lot.
If anyone out there has any other Sturgeon recommendations, please let me know, because I'm impressed with what I've read so far!
My tastes have branched out over the years, but I always enjoy coming back to a good science-fiction or fantasy paperback, literary comfort food for my soul.I remember picking up a copy of this book sometime in the mid-80’s, in a little section of paperbacks at one of the pawn shops near where I grew up in Texarkana, Texas.
Theodore Sturgeon was not a “hard” science-fiction writer.
It’s a great start to the book, and the pages turn fast as the action ramps up.“The Dreaming Jewels” is one of Theodore Sturgeon’s best short novels.
Last Christmas, I mentioned to my parents that I'd like to read more science fiction.
The Synthetic Man was easily the oldest looking by a long shot.
Nine times out of ten, picking up a book at random without any knowledge of it will, at best, leave you pleasantly entertained, and at worst, make you want to purge your brain of the 200 or so pages worth of foulness you've just fed it.
A book you start recommending to everyone, no matter how irritated they get with you.
The Synthetic Man was that book for me.
The book blurb states this was Sturgeon's first novel and it is an impressive beginning.
I sympathized with the characters in this book far more.
And by the end of what I think was the first chapter, before Horty sets off, I was shocked and disturbed and fascinated with Sturgeon for forcing me to care so strongly for a character as fast as I did for Horty.
I liked the ending but the last chapter or 2 before the final page felt slightly rocky, which is the only reason why I am not rating 5 stars.
For the 1950 first novel of Vonnegut's model for Kilgore Trout, I was actually pleasantly surprised by this one.
A very human coming-of-age balanced by some dips into bizarre scientific study of abstract life (a little more optimistic about mediating between these worlds than Stanislaw Lem, however).
And for a while wholly unpredictable, culminating in a completely startling revenge sequence.
Ultimately, the trajectory has to reconform a relatively normal set of guidepoints, though -- the second half becoming much more foreseeable at least in generalities.
Sturgeon seems to have an empathy for the marginalized I find lacking in some of his contemporaries, and it goes a long way.
Theodore Sturgeon only wrote SF because no other genre could possibly have contained the immensity of his ideas.
That this was originally published in 1951 only serves to intensify my admiration for this man's work, reminding me just how ahead of his time he was.Sturgeon is an ideas man so one might compare him to the likes of A.E. van Vogt and Philip K.
While not quite attaining the dizzying heights of More Than Human, this is a great story and deserves more recognition than it appears to have.I can't wait to read some more of this man's work, although I'm not sure where to go next...
3.5 stars. This is another one that is right in the middle of 3 and 4 stars. This is another well written, emotionally charged story about an 8 year old boy who runs away from his abusive foster parents and joins up with a travelling carnival full of "special" people. From there it is a "coming of age" story as only Sturgeon can tell it full of unique aliens, misfits, mad doctors and dreams of worldwide destruction. Recommended!!
Merrick en 'El hombre elefante'; el universo de Tim Burton, sobre todo en 'Big Fish'; o David Cronenberg y sus pesadillas, han dado importancia a estos seres.
Todd Browning, en 'La parada de los monstruos' ('Freaks'), película en B/N de principios del siglo pasado, ya nos los mostró con toda su crudeza, y no eran actores, se dedicó a recoger a cuanto fenómeno de feria encontraba.'Los cristales soñadores' cuenta la historia de un grupo de fenómenos de feria, patéticos y entrañablas, producto de una inteligencia extraña: cristales que sueñan y duplican hombres, animales y plantas.La historia es floja, no nos vamos a engañar, tengo la impresión de que podría dar para algo más.
Много закъсняло ревю, но все пак: http://knigoqdec.blogspot.bg/2016/06/...„Бленуващите кристали” на Теодор Стърджън, е една доста динамична книга. Това е роман, който се чете на един дъх не само заради по-краткия брой страници (да се има предвид, че форматът и шрифтът са по-различни от стандартния). В книгата се съчетават както фентъзи елементи, така и много общочовешки теми - за взаимоотношенията мeжду хората, за желанията и мечтите и за това как да оцелеем в един свят, в който е трудно да се доверим на отсрещния.
Theodore Sturgeon is unusual among mainstream male science fiction writers of the fifties and sixties in that he writes with sensitivity, focusing more on his characters than on technologies or extraordinary plots. He is favorably comparable to Ray Bradbury, though less given to the utterly fantastic. This, his first, novel is a sympathetic portrayal of an abused boy, a theme unusual to the period, and of how his alliance with other social rejects saves humanity.
I've taken my first step towards filling that gap with The Dreaming Jewels, his first novel, and I pretty much love it.Many have warned me that Sturgeon's novels are novels of ideas and that character and style are secondary for him.
I was continuously surprised that a novel written in 1950 dealt with child abuse and gender politics in a way that occasionally felt contemporary, not to mention the fact that Sturgeon was able to incorporate these elements without sidetracking the grand adventure of it all.I certainly plan to read more Sturgeon in the future.(view spoiler)[I'd like to add that the resolution of the romantic storyline pleased me to no end.
~Giveaway книга ^^~Когато "чудаците" са повече хора от хората...Свързвам разказа (по моите критерии това е разказ) на Стърджън с един пасаж от стихотворение, което ми беше направило голямо впечатление, когато бях ученичка, и което странно се връзва с тази история.
Съответният пасаж звучи ето така:"Но в затвора попаднал на хораи станалчовек..."Красивата и нежна любов на Зийна към момчето, първоначално обречено да живее в един отвратителен свят на омраза, ще променят света му.
То не е обикновен човек.
Тя не е обикновен човек.И двамата искат да пораснат.
В търсене на онова, което ни прави хора.
Не, в търсене на онези неща.
Но това не значи, че малките неща не са там.
И какво от това?
Mentre qui ci troviamo davanti a una storia che non cambia la normalità, che è nel qui ed ora, eppure non per questo è meno straordinaria.
Ma se l'origine della nostra esistenza fosse qualcosa di così inquietante da essere inimmaginabile?
"Sognano, ma i loro sogni non sono come i nostri, sono sogni fatti di carne e di linfa, di legno, di ossa e di sangue".E da un'ipotesi assurda che ribalta ogni certezza e tranquillità, si arriva a una riflessione sull'umano.
È possibile che sia questo un essere umano?
E soprattutto, se non sappiamo risponderci, come possiamo dire con certezza chi è umano e chi no?
I hadn't thought about this book for ages, until the other day when I read Jessica Treat's fine short story Ants. They both start in pretty much the same way. Coincidence?
I think this may be due to Sturgeon’s sparse, efficient style and not at all the author trying to skim over something he hasn’t fully thought out.
With where this book goes, and knowing what I know about Sturgeon’s Vulcan work on Star Trek, I’m starting to think that might be a theme of his career.
If I was underlining in this book (I can’t, it’s Lauren’s), I would have underlined…- I used to think everybody had something like that.
- You don't know what you think until you tell someone else about it.- Human affairs refuse to be simple...
I don't know enough about Sturgeon's writing to know if he realized just how weird this story is.
They are living beings who pass their lives unnoticed by humans, and yet are capable of affecting our lives in amazing ways.
Whenever an aspect of the story needs to be explained, you can expect several pages of dialog doing just that.
And it's not very good dialog.
If the writing had been better, and the story better told -- I guess, in other words, if it had been a better book -- The Dreaming Jewels could have achieved a similar effect.
Theodore Sturgeon to me is a bit of mystery - I have a number of his works and I am slowly working my way through his collected works (an impressive series I must admit) and his short story " Saucer of loneliness" is one of my all time favourite stories - even before the new twilight zone turned it in to an amazing episode - but still his work surprises me.
And as a side note the publisher Victor Gollancz has brought us many amazing books and I know that there is a rich history of titles they can draw on but the fact that in the early 2000s they reprinted a number in their distinctive yellow jacket makes this book all the more appealing to me (shallow I know)
Теодор Стърджън е от ония пишещи, посветили писането и (без преувеличение) живота си на човешкото: онова, което ни прави човеци.
Без значение къде; кога; какви сме се родили.На Запад събратята му по перо го наричат „въплътената любов“.
Рей Бредбъри, Роджър Зелазни, Харлан Елисън, Джийн Улф, Самюъл Дилейни – те не само черпят вдъхновение от свежестта и силата на прозата му; вдъхновяват ги, като хора, примерите за човечност и проявленията на човечността, които изригват и от най-мрачните истории на Стърджън.
(А Стърджън познава мрака в нас не по-зле от спътницата му светлина.)„Бленуващите кристали“ е първият роман на Стърджън, писан преди повече от шест десетилетия.
Дали е недодялан?
Дали е остарял?Своите отговори знам.
"Los negocios humanos rehúsan de ser simples; los destinos humanos rehúsan de ser claros" Si esto lo hubiese leído hace dos años (este libro lleva en mi estantería CUATRO años) habría alucinado. Pero hace dos años no habría apreciado la historia por mis viejas ideas y mis absurdos sesgos, así que este era el momento justo de para leerlo. En realidad es una historia es bastante sencilla. Trata sobre un chico inadaptado, no al estilo Holden sino verdaderamente un inadaptado. Come hormigas. Sus pa
Pero hace dos años no habría apreciado la historia por mis viejas ideas y mis absurdos sesgos, así que este era el momento justo de para leerlo.
En realidad es una historia es bastante sencilla.
Que sus "rarezas" tienen un origen.
Todo conserva un aura bizarra que me parece un puntazo para historia.
Me ha dejado una sensación en el cuerpo agradable.
No es el mejor libro de ciencia ficción que puedes leer, pero para alguien que ande buscando ciencia ficción medianamente blanda y humor negro con toques bizarros, aquí tiene una historia que se deja disfrutar.
Un fantastico deformante e stregato, dove i mutanti sono emarginati fin dall'inizio. Per arrivare in fondo è necessario capire, tutto quanto (e non è ovvio).
It is a towering parable of the imperative of empathy.Incidentally, that this book dates from 1950, that it is a science-fiction book from 1950 and that it is the first novel of a young author only make it more astonishing.I read this book as a young child, somewhere near the initial age of the protagonist.
Stepping back into it now, it is completely unsurprising that this was the case and I see that despite having little conscious recall of the book, there are endless elements and details that marked me, contributed to my perception of the world and fertilized me.While I believe this book could be a wondrous read for anyone, it makes a tremendous gift for a troubled youth.
There he finds friendship and company but never realises that his companion Zena is protecting him from the carnival's leader, the Maneater.
It's not until many years later that he discovers the truth about himself and the jack-in-the-box with the jewelled eyes that he couldn't bear to have apart from him.The central notion of the crystal jewels in this book is fascinating.
A strange, mostly unexplained, form of life that can create duplicates of objects, plants and even people.
The Maneater is fascinated by these crystals and dedicates his life to finding them and making them do his bidding.
The Dreaming Jewels has a very familiar storyline - unhappy young man, terrible family, boy runs away to join the circus.
The novel cleverly deals with gender, gender fluidity, growing up, being different, and finding acceptance.
It's also not particularly conventional in its conclusion - there's not really a happy romantic ending per se, though being more or less a novel acceptable for young adults...
It does have a fairly happy ending.
His stories are largely accessible, his characters relatable, and his writing quite comfortable.
His character names tend to be a bit dated, but...
I liked this book, it was a quick, absorbing read. The story and the characters could have been more fleshed out; the plot was ultimately rather thin but it did have me on the edge of my seat for a while there.I think I'm the opposite of Michael below me: I'm not much into SF, especially not the technical kind with lots of spaceships, but I'd love to get into SF like this more. Is there a name of this kind of SF? If anyone happens to read this and has any tips, let me know!
I've reread The Dreaming Jewels a few times since 1992. I still quite like it. In particular, I enjoy the Americana of the WWII era setting and the use of the carnie world as as a relief against which the perversion of the mainstream world is cast. Great early sci-fi.
Bel romanzo, molto poetico, ha come tema la diversità, la solitudine e la ricerca dell'amore, anche in un mondo ostile e cattivo; supera i canoni della Fantascienza per espandersi in una molteplicità di generi.
Un roman étonnant, agréable à lire, et dont le contenu se laisse découvrir petit à petit. Il est parfaitement calibré à mon goût, un vrai petit bijou ! (sans mauvais jeu de mots)
Tohle se mi prostě nelíbilo. Je to celé nepravděpodobné, nedotažené, postavy taky jen nahrubo nahozené... Podle mého názoru hodně přehodnocená věc a ztráta času to číst.
I know it's a scarily long time ago, and many of you weren't even born, but picture a wee Scots lad, 13 years old, and a science fiction geek in love with Asimov, Clarke, Wells and Wyndham.
I'd also read a few of Dennis Wheatley's books by then, and I'd been thrilled by the horror / satanic aspects of the old bigot's work, but his upper-crust characters were so far removed from my Scottish council estate life that I couldn't identify with them at all.
An 8-year-old boy named Horton "Horty" Bluett, runs away from his abusive family and takes refuge among the "strange people" in a traveling circus.
Пътуващ цирк — е, всъщност шоу на изродите, — където най-голямата грозота е прилежно скрита зад маска от любопитство и интерес към света; едно странно дете, можещо да управлява живота си в най-божествения смисъл благодарение на камъни без душа, но с толкова много мечти; няколко джуджета, албиноси, алигатори, амфибии, недовършени божии създания, сътворени не винаги от този Бог, за който се сещаме първосигнално.
И един път — криволичене между неслучили се дни, привидно проста история, с блясък на мегаломания, застиваща на последната страница тъкмо когато някой намекна за по-обобщено спасение на света.
