https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16141924-dad-is-fat
I am giving it three stars because it is essentially a bunch of 2-minute standup routines strung together; nevertheless, I think the bit about the millions of pictures we take of our kids is suitable for framing.
My daughter is just over a year old and I would conservatively estimate that my computer currently holds more than 10,000 pictures of her, plus videos.
So my computer sometimes has to think for three minutes when I open Chrome, because of 9,000 pictures I will never look at.On the other hand, it used to be pictures of the cat.
I think if you take your kids to the park, you can probably make fun of them in a book for being dumb when they are first born.The book is mostly centered around the decision to have 5 kids and raise them in Manhattan, and the only piece that comes off kind of defensive is one where Gaffigan expresses that he's tired of people asking if he and his wife are done having kids as this is a private matter.
Let's put it this way: As selfish as it is for me to want to be first in line at the Donut shop every time I go, it is equally selfish for parents to create a large number of humans who will be in front of me at the Donut shop.
I try to inject some humor into my writing, especially the graphic novel reviews and I try to bring some humor to my day-to-day living.My son likes Gaffigan’s take on food, especially Hot Pockets and bacon, so when we bought him an Ipod, one of the first things he downloaded, was Gaffigan’s King Baby.
Much of trip is through North Eastern Pennsylvania (I refuse to take I95) and aside from my son endlessly googling for Chinese buffets (“Dad there’s a Chinese Buffet in Squirrelballs, if you take the next exit, we can be there in twenty minutes”), we listened to Jim Gaffigan in order to lighten our journey.

As a parent of a two year old and a five year old, not only did it feel like he was speaking directly to me, I wondered if he was following me around and taking notes - 95% of this book happens to me almost daily!I did hear that some people didn’t care for it and there are a few reasons I think this might be:•	Gaffigan is very goofy and sarcastic.
You may need to pace yourself to avoid getting tired of it.•	For this particular book, if you are not a parent or have no experience with kids, it may not be your thing.
My parents had three kids and I thought that was nuts.Gaffigan had me giggling from the very beginning, in which he told a story of a vacation he and his wife took before they had children.
Of course, now Gaffigan knows better.Some other favorite stories were about what it's like living in New York with five kids, the challenge of getting five kids to bed in a two-bedroom apartment, and why Gaffigan has surrendered to eating fast food while traveling ("You win, McDonald's").He also had a poignant essay about people who ask him inappropriate questions about his five kids, sometimes ending with, "Are you done yet?" He says family is a very personal topic, and related such rudeness to those who pester childless couples.
Did you know Jim Gaffigan has five kids?
Five kids.
Five kids.
He must be crazy.
Wow five kids.
Wow in a tiny NYC apartment.
Did you know that you don't sleep much when you have five kids?
Did you know it is hard to go anywhere with five kids?
Wow he must be crazy or something to have five kids.
Did he mention he has five kids?If you made it through that then you should thank me because I basically just gave you the experience and gist of reading this book but saved you the trouble of actually reading it.
After recently reading Jim Gaffigan's gastronomically good read Food: A Love Story, I decided to go on a mini Gaffigan binge.
As you might guess from the title, Dad Is Fat is about Gaffigan's home life and the travails of becoming a parent.
I related to the no-kids couple, I laughed at some of the parenthood ridiculousness and I enjoyed every part of this book.
Enjoy looking like a hillbilly.
series for folks looking to bone up on childrearing, but did you really think that's what you'd find between the pages of a book with this title?Rating: 3.5
I listened to the audiobook and everything about this was excellent! :D
It's simple: If you like Jim Gaffigan's work, you'll like this book -- especially if you get the audio version, because he reads it himself.
If you aren't familiar with his comedy, please stop living such a needlessly sad life and check out one of his albums.
Actually, all his albums are good; I just like these best.So check out his comedy, and then read his book.
(Or listen to it.) Or read his book, and like it enough to want to listen to his comedy.
Unless I am, in which case I order you to read his book and listen to his comedy.
I just like spending time with my children, although I'm always amazed at how little I have in common with them.
My 6-year-old son Jack actually doesn't like mashed potatoes.
"EWWWWW ....mashed potatoes."- Little kids simply have bad taste in everything.
if you ask a 3-year-old boy to pick something out to wear to the park the outfit will definitely clash and most likely not include pants.
When you have little kids you can't just say 'come on, let's go' and walk out the door.
31)My love of lollipops is not about eating them; it’s about how quiet they make children … If you ever take your kids to a situation where they must be quiet, bring lollipops.
My pig loved that.”Of course, the dog-and-baby comparison is nothing new.
I also understand some people prefer dogs to babies.
I’m an all-around animal lover, but besides the drooling and whimpering, your dog is not that similar to a baby.
The cleanest of clean dogs still smells like a dog.Allow me to list a few other differences:1.
Some funny parts, but sheesh, if I wanted to hear some middle-aged man complain about his five kids I could just go to my brother's house.
If I could describe this book in one word, it would be wholesome.
From Jim's parenting techniques to his style of humor, it somehow made me chuckle yet feel heartwarmed (is that a word?).
I do like that this book jabs fun at fathering, particularly how much harder women tend to work than men in parenting.
He's very aware of the gender politics involved with parenting, and I like how he nods to it by discussing it ironically but not disrespectfully.
This will definitely be a memorable book and it's so quick and sweet that I'll probably end up rereading it one day!
I don't know if he's trying to be funny when he talks about how women have nurturing instincts and that's why this whole parenting thing is so much harder for him that it is for his wife but it's not coming across as hilarious, at least not to me.So while I smiled once or twice while listening to this, all in all, it bored me to bits and I hope Gaffigan meets many great donuts in his life, I wish him well, and I never want to meet him in person.
I absolutely LOVE Jim Gaffigan. He makes me laugh so hard and I always feel good after watching him on stand up, or reading his books. I really hope he writes more books. I'm in!5*****
3.5Not as funny as watching Jim live but still plenty of laugh out loud moments. It’s more along the lines of truth in parenting moments and wisdom gained along the way. Anyone who has ever raised multiple children will relate to the stories and recollections this dad of five has experienced and writes about.I listened to the audio read by the author while on my walks and doing chores which not only enhanced the enjoyment of the tasks but I’m sure the book as well.
“Raising kids may be a thankless job with ridiculous hours, but at least the pay sucks.” While Gaffigan’s comedy specials bring plenty of belly laughs, the book was much more subtle. Maybe I’m just hilarious, or (more the likely scenario) all pale skinned people who bear fruit experience most of the same things. I suspect that those without children would have many more guffaws than those whose homes are already filled with the tiny terrorists. That’s not to say the book isn’t enjoyable – it’s
That’s not to say the book isn’t enjoyable – it’s just not “wet your pants from laughing” funny (if you're a female who birthed more than one child, you’ll understand the reference).Highlights for me were all of the opinions Gaffigan and I have in common (these moments probably confirm I am a huge asshole, but having someone else write them down for all eternity took some weight off my soul).
The necessity of an “8 hour ladies luncheon” every once in awhile with your best friend (after which you come home completely inebriated);8.
Enter: "Dad is Fat", a new type of parenting book, written by Jim Gaffigan of three hit stand-up specials on Comedy Central."Dad is Fat" is laugh-out-loud funny, but surprisingly observant.
Gaffigan writes the book in blog style.
From fast food, to extended family, to vacations on tour and adventures in questionable New York City parks, Gaffigan covers quite the range of parenting topics with his range of children age 7 to newborn (at time of writing).Fans of Jim's stand-up specials will recognize several of his classic bits, and find new comedy gems too.
I love Jim Gaffigan, but I think this book was bit much.
I probably would have liked this better if I listened to him read me the audiobook.Also, I guess I didn't realize how much (nearly all) of this book was about him being a dad.
Like when you start to look at a friend's photo album on facebook and realize it's all just slight variations of the same photo of their kid a thousand times and desperate-sounding e-cards about how parenting is the best and non-parents will never understand you again.
It's not that you don't love your friend and her child, or that you didn't laugh at Jim Gaffigan's jokes.
Despite my fangirl status, I did not enjoy this book.
First of all, he read the book.
Second, while I was warned that this was not for people who didn't have kids, I figured that was not a problem since I deal with the quirks of two of them on a daily basis.
But the warning should have gone that you won't enjoy this unless you have little kids.
But, really...it is almost impossible to get two kids into an SUV and get underway.
In fact, perhaps I should change the number of stars in hopes that lots of people buy this book and they can move to Vermont and get a minivan.
That was a fun read.
I think books like these, Yes Please, All I Really Need to Know I Learned in Kindergarten and Life Is a Bowl of Cherry Pits to name a few, are like literary Chinese Food.
You also can't recall exactly what the meal tasted like, only that you would be happy to eat it again.It was very obvious how much Gaffigan loves his wife and children from this book.
I like that.
I was not even peripherally aware of him before a friend chose this as a group read, so I watched a Youtube video.
I think I'll stick to any more books he reads.
It's broken up into small increments...maybe ten of fifteen minute parts so it was easy to pop my earbuds in and get a few good chuckles in before heading back to real life and my own screaming, messy, disruptive children.♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦A few favorite jokes:♦♦♦ "“Raising kids may be a thankless job with ridiculous hours, but at least the pay sucks.” ♦♦♦ “If camping is so great, why are the bugs always trying to get in your house?” ♦♦♦ “I used to have a lot of faith in humanity before the advent of the website "comment" section.” ♦♦♦ “Once your baby starts to walk you’ll realize why cribs are designed like prisons from the early 1900s.
He gets props for mentioning-- more than once-- that a book about the struggles of raising kids is a sure-fire way to make some dough.
Instead of chuckling good-naturedly at the pitfalls of having five kids, I found myself actually judging him and his wife (who we are told is AMAZING about 100 times)for burdening this world with 5 kids and not having the sense or basic money-management skills to get an apartment big enough for their big family.
I hope Gaffigan leaves his kids and wife out of his future efforts.
Gaffigan is hilarious - one of my favorite comedians. This book is a pile of chuckles with a few real laughs thrown in. It's an honest look at the travails of being dad. I'd recommend it to any dad or expectant dad because it's informative and really fun whereas most fathering books are neither.
OMG this book so freaking hilarious.Ever since I watched him live and on video, oh and don't forget the HOT POCKET joke -I've loved him.Jim Gaffigan could do no wrong in my eyes.
I mean I knew he was freaking hilarious way before I realized he wrote a book.
Then I opened this book and well, let's just say I was not disappointed a freaking bit.Seriously, I could relate to so much of it and then I just laughed because a lot of it will probably happen later on in my life.
I think I just loved everything about this book.
There were parts that were leave-me-smiling-for-hours humorous.
I just want to say "think this through".) There is one small part where he seems to be on a soapbox for couples that choose to have big families.
There are other parts that are just interesting and curiously funny, such as his chapter on "How to Put Five Kids to Bed in a Two Bedroom Apartment" and the bit about how they travel on a tour bus for his shows(but still rent hotel rooms for the pool access).I think it's more funny if you're familiar with his shows.
Overall, I think it's definitely worth a few hours of time and made for good airplane reading!
Okay, so I was looking for a quick, light-hearted read to cover the last couple of days of 2015. What I ended up with was a very quick, light-hearted read that covered about three hours on December 29, 2015. Very quick, very cute, and very humorous essays on fatherhood/parenting through the eyes of a (clean, "family-friendly") stand-up comedian. This book could also be titled, "My Kids Do That!"Recommended for parents, grandparents, would-be parents, and never-be parents everywhere.
If you listened to it on audio you'll love it even more.This book is all about Jim's 5 kids, his beautiful and superwoman of a wife Jeannie and of course, Jim. As a parent, I can relate to most of the situations that Jim has come across during his everyday life with small children.
I gave this book 4 stars because Jim kept repeating that he had 5 small children, but maybe that was just because he wanted to remind us of the zoo in which he lives in.
I don't want my kids to grow up but if I can look forward to grand-babies in the future it won't be so bad to let them go.
ג'ים גפיגן הוא קומיקאי שהחליט להביא לעולם 5 ילדים בדירת 2 חדרים במנהטן ניו יורק.
מכאן צמחו שלל אפיזודות קורעות כמו העובדה שג'ים רוצה ללכת לנוח והזוג הזה מתעצבן עליהם כי הם רוצים לראות טלבזיה בחדר שלהם.הספר רצוף אפיזודות מוכרות לכל הורה באשר הוא: הזדחלות של הילדים למיטת ההורים בלילות, התאווה למתוקים, התמרונים בדירה קטנה, ילדים שרוצים פיפי בדיוק כשהגיעו לגינה הציבורית, חופשות עם ילדים (אכזרי בכל גיל ולא רק כשהם קטנים), התמודדות עם שכנים והתמודדות עם זרם שאלות מביכות ובלתי פוסקות של משפחה וחברים - קודם מתי תביאו ילדים ואחר כך סיימתם כבר ?לא נתתי לו 5 כוכבים כי מדובר באפיזודות רבות שלקראת הסוף כבר מיצו את עצמן.
יחד עם זאת גפיגן חינני, משעשע וזורם עם החיים שהביא על עצמו והומור הוא השיטה הטובה ביותר להתמודד עם מצבים מביכים, קשים ולא נעימים.
Fun one. He has such a good sense of humor.Review to come.Audiobook CommentsRead by the author - and he was an absolute delight!Blog | Instagram | Twitter
