https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40725379-animal-vegetable-miracle
I also do not want to hear any more of her stories about how awesome she and her family are, and how they were able to eat primarily off what they could grow in their backyard, (plenty of fresh vegetables!) or buy from local farmers (who are all personal friends, anyway!
I don't want to hear any more about how her family is doing their part to stop global warming by reducing food processing and transportation costs, and now they all managed to do it without fighting.
Kingsolver’s skill as a storyteller is undiminished, and there are some wonderful sections as she relates their adventures plotting how to foist some of their bumper zucchini harvest off on unsuspecting neighbors and how they helped their new turkey crop re-learn the lost art of natural copulation.
In these celebrations of the pleasures of fresh, locally grown, in-season produce, Kingsolver was very effective in inspiring me to think more about how to plan my menus around what is seasonally available.
Barbara Kingsolver and her family have decided, for various environmental, political, and health reasons, to eat locally for a year and try and raise as much of their own produce and meat as they deemed feasible.Kingsolver is a good writer and I've enjoyed  Animal Dreams and  The Bean Trees, so I assumed I would enjoy her adecdotes about her family's efforts to grow their own food supply.
There was this sense that, wow, America had just been so much better a hundred years ago, gosh, why can't we all just get back to that.My new goal is go get everyone to read this book and find out if they hate it as much as I did.
It's a non-fiction account of her back to the land movement with her family.
It's a bit over the top if you ask me but I suppose an interesting addition to their overall movement.) Kingsolver makes a lot of good points about eating what's in season and offers some handy recipes.
She proceeds to slam vegetarians--apparently we do not get the concept of family farming because if we did we would eat locally raised animals.
I guess what made me the maddest about this reading experience is that I really like Kingsolver as an author and was looking forward to her take on living off the land.
Dear Barbara Kingsolver,I'm very sorry, but I'm abandoning my attempt to read your book Animal, Vegetable, Miracle, which chronicles the year your family spent living on your farm in Virginia attempting to eat only local, sustainable food.I adore your novels.
They even made me stop eating fast food, buy organic when I can, and give up most meat.I wanted to love your book.
And then you said if I could only taste fresh vegetables, straight from the vine, I couldn't stand my bland Stop & Shop tomato.
I will patronize my local vegetable stand more because of reading your four chapters.
I can forgive the obvious shortcommings of this book for three significant reasons: First, I believe wholeheartedly that by purchasing as much locally grown/made food as possible we can solve our fossil fuel dependency.
I agree with most of what she says and respect her reminder that I need to buy as much food as possible from local farmers, and I am going to try a few of her recipes.
By purchasing your neighbors food, you can help with the fossil fuel problem AND keep their farm in business.
Which, yay for that, but do I really want to read a whole book about that?But someone (I think in the aforementioned book club) thought this book was fantastic and highly recommended it, and I really loved Barbara Kingsolver's novels The Poisonwood Bible and The Bean Trees, so in a moment of madness I clicked over to Amazon and bought this book (a used copy; I'm not that mad).So here was my takeaway: I applaud this family's determination to stick exclusively with local organic foodstuffs only for a year.
A quick flip through Barbara's chapter on turkey butchering will cure you.In case you've had your head in the sand or don't live in the Bay Area or somewhere like it, here's the book's basic premise: Novelist Barbara Kingsolver and her professor husband pack up their two daughters and move from the New Mexican desert to a small farm in Virginia, where it rains and things grow, and after a bit of a weaning process that involves hard decisions about bananas, undertake a year of eating nothing but locally produced food.
This book gave me desires.
Deep dark desires for...gardening.
And doing them now.The thing is, these are all things I have aspirations to do anyway, but my way is rather slower than the way Barbara Kingsolver and her family approached trying to eat locally for a year.
I'm trying to make small, long-term changes, one at a time, hopefully in a way that I'll stick to it.
Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Not only is it informative and a bit scary (though she doesn't present anything terribly new or earth-shattering to those of us who have read things like Fast Food Nation or Portrait of a Burger as a Young Calf), but it's inspiring all at the same time.
It becomes very obvious right from the beginning that she's got an extremely narrow focus for her arguments and doesn't quite understand how economies work and how and politics and public policy have shaped where people live and what foods are accessible to them beyond the typical liberal "you're being hoodwinked by those nasty CFOs."It doesn't seem to occur to her that not everyone wants to be a farmer, grow their own food or make meals from scratch.
Both of my grandmothers grew up on farms and could tell you at length about how much being a farmer, baking your own bread and living on only "local food" can completely suck.
This starting point, of which I'm reminded whenever I see asparagus air freighted into the UK that was grown in arid semi-desert regions of Peru, of realising that the logic of capitalism produces illogical and environmentally unsustainable outcomes is something that many readers can recognise, but Kingsolver's response, while interesting, is one that few will be able to emulate.What Barbara Kingsolver did was to undertake a quest to live for a year on food either produced by herself or sourced very locally.
While I like what she and her family did, the lifestyle they adopt reflects their circumstances including an independent income, as well as a nearby Farmers' market that supplies basic foodstuffs.This book provides no model for the good life, but nor does it aspire to do so.
3.5★It wasn't that I didn't like this book - I found Kingsolver's message far more palatable as non fiction, rather than using her fiction as a soapbox.
& I do think if I ever finish this book, I'll agree with a lot of Kingsolver's conclusions.She is my sister's favourite author, so I gave Trish this book last night.
If I don't get it back or can't get the book from another source I will move it on to my dnf shelf.Edit 29/11/16 This book is preaching to the converted with me.
Still don't feel any desire to search out another copy.
Yes. However, Kingsolver can't seem to find one redeeming virtue in the life that so many millions of Americans live.
For example, in one article, Kingsolver's husband mentions that over 2/3rds of the families in Moscow grow their own food.
This was true at one point, although anecdotal evidence leads me to believe that this is no longer the case, but he doesn't mention that in Western Siberia, a lot of people can no longer garden because encephalitis-bearing ticks have taken over their land, and they get closer and closer to the cities every year.
I agree wholeheartedly with Jonathan Safran Foer's argument on this subject, which is this:Isn't ignoring all the facts of most modern animal production, the deep and lasting harm it causes to animals, laborers, consumers and the environment, and yes, the possible moral implications of killing another living thing when most of us no longer depend upon doing so to avoid starvation, all because "meat tastes good" and it affords a few minutes of pleasure in the eating a much MORE sentimental and LESS rational position than recognizing those facts and choosing to eat accordingly?I realize that Kingsolver is supporting the eating of sustainably raised animals, which sidesteps the issue of CAFOs and factory farms somewhat, but these types of animals are NOT available to or affordable for everyone, or even to most.She tells a story about her family sitting around the kitchen table one night all laughing together at a vegan actress they read about who wants to start a farm sanctuary.
I have liked Kingsolver's books in the past and I am easily obsessed with sustainable farming/living/eating issues.
She and her family spend a lot of time planting seeds, celebrating food, pointing fingers, and patting themselves on the back.
And what is life if you suck all of the fun out of it?Ok, maybe that's all a bit harsh.
I did learn interesting things about farming, seeds, living simply, and thinking twice (or three times) before buying food that has been shipped.
I also learned that eating locally and growing your food are not necessarily as romantic in real life as they are in my head.
I was so excited to finally get my hands on this fantastic story about one family's year long experiment in growing & raising most of their own food.
I think the grow your own philosophy of this family is extreme for our culture but I am so attracted to it because it's a life lived with intention and deep conviction.
So that realistically more families will choose to grow more gardens and shop for local, in season food.
As a plant based eater living in Northern New England if I chose to eat only locally grown foods I'd eat a lot of potatotes and go crazy with summer blueberries (not a bad thing).
Barbara and her family decided to do an experiment and only eat what they raise and what is grown locally while it is in season for a year.
I eat things all times of the year.
I think not having a farm makes this difficult to do, but maybe that is all in my head.
Listening to her book made me want to spend a year eating locally.
Maybe her ideas seem dangerous to those with their head in the sand - I don't know.This was a fantastic book and I can't live up to its message.
If you adore heirloom tomatoes that have a limited season, taste like real tomatoes, and probably have to be bought at your local farmers market, you will enjoy the chapter Springing Forward where you will not only read about heirloom seeds and their ilk, but also hear the author rant about genetically modified and hybrid corn and soybeans that have been developed to make money for large agribusiness companies.
Also be prepared to listen up about hybrid tomatoes that have been genetically modified to travel and pack well; taste is totally secondary.And the book goes on with personal experiences of the Kingsolver family as they experimented with limiting themselves to local food, that is, to become locavores, and to learn about the history of agriculture and the things that threaten it today.
It covers the reasons why the country's foodways face imminent disaster, how you can help, and, most importantly for newbies, the many, many pleasures that can be had from responsible eating.Barbara Kingsolver chooses to take as pleasant, nonjudgmental and nondidactic approach as one can take to such important topics, because she is hoping to persuade people who are ignorant of or hostile to the issues.
But the U.S. has introduced a number of patented GM seeds, making U.S. farmer's aid dependent on use of the patented seeds, and made it illegal to save them.
Kingsolver says that vegans ignore the fact that the lives of small creatures living in grain fields are "plumb wasted" and goes on to assert that, as she puts it, without the human harvesting of animals, domestic livestock "would never have had the distinction of existing" (pg.222).
(As though by bringing livestock into a miserable, inhumane existence through completely artificial means, humans are bestowing a great privilege on these animals.)Kingsolver almost raised herself to throwing-the-book-across-the-room-never-to-be-picked-up-again status (and only avoided this reaction by virtue of my proximity to the end of the book) with this lovely gem: (In regards to Thanksgiving, which Kingsolver sites as belonging to her people...)Oh, yes, I know the Squanto story, we replayed it to death in our primitive grade-school pageantry ("Pilgrim friends!
If you've read any books on this or seen any documentaries, this will not be new information.But honestly when you have quotes like this:"Obesity is generally viewed as a failure of personal resolve, with no acknowledgement of the genuine conspiracy in this historical scheme [human being's built-in weakness for fats and sugars]."and this:"We have...a string of fad diets convulsing our bookstores and bellies, one after another, at the scale of the national best seller."I can't really rag on the author for repetition because this stuff is SO IMPORTANT you can't repeat it enough.But hands-down, my favorite quote is this (emphasis mine):""...a perception of organic food as an elite privilege is a considerable obstacle to the farmer...Raising food without polluting the field or the product will always cost more than the conventional mode that externalizes costs to taxpayers and the future."So sure, you can pop into McD's for one of their dollar menu items.
I have a few questions for you:(1) Do you care about saving our planet?(2) Do you care about your and your family's health and nutrition?(3) Do you care about animal welfare?(4) Have you ever been dreaming about homesteading and living (at least partially) of the land?If you can answer YES to at least one of the previous questions, then this book is a MUST READ for you.
Although I didn't plan it, Animal, Vegetable, Miracle seemed like the perfect book to be reading close to Earth Day. Barbara Kingsolver, her husband Steven Hopp, and their children Camille Kingsolver and Lily Hopp moved from Arizona to live at their farm in Southern Appalachia (Virginia).
Their goal was to spend one year as locavores--eating local, organic food by growing it themselves and buying it at farmers' markets.
In addition to direct transport, other fuel-thirsty steps include processing (drying, milling, cutting, sorting, baking), packaging, warehousing, and refrigeration."It was a big plus that both Barbara and Steven are biologists, come from farming families, and had established orchards and gardens which they enlarged.
The same talent that allows her to write amazing pieces of fiction detract from her nonfiction in that she just knows too much detail and feels too passionately about what she is talking about.
Not because I think there is anything wrong with the choice to raise animals and slaughter them.
But, I could have done without the diatribe on why vegetarians are somehow in the wrong for not eating meat.
She took a lot of risks, from addressing such a political topic to writing a nonfiction book, and I respect her for that.
This fluidity is paced fairly well--there are only occasional places where she feels too preachy or gets too personally tangential, and they're tucked in with enough interesting details to make them almost unnoticeable.Be clear: this is not a how-to book (as she notes in the first couple chapters) and it is not necessarily designed to convince you that you need to do the same (she's not the local food police).
The book is broken up even more (in a pleasant way) by informative sidebars from her husband Steven--which generally discuss resources, activist opportunities, laws, etc.--and the end-of-chapter pages by her eldest daughter Camille (now 19)--which include menu suggestions and a few recipes.
The language, spelling and grammar are highly professional, a joy to read.Barbara and her husband and daughters decided to embark on a year of growing their own food, raising their own poultry and buying local food from farmers.
I found it very interesting that since tobacco, the mainstay of small farm economy and large farm wealth in Virginia, lost its subsidies, the small farmers have mostly taken to growing organic produce.
Not everyone has a back forty acres to use to grow food.
But we can make better choices, support local goods instead of imported or long haul goods, and we can shop at farmers' markets.
I wanted to like this book.
I expected to like this book.
I liked about a third of it, to be exact.In this book, Barbara Kingsolver is preaching to the choir as far as I'm concerned; I agree with the importance of local, sustainable eating.
She spends at least a third of her own part of the book preaching, using a tone anyone who has spent any time with a recent religious convert will recognize only too well, and then she brings in her husband (for more factual, less condescending preaching) and her older daughter (for basic recipes and some of the worst preaching of all, since Camille doesn't quite have her mother's knack for writing), too.
And even though I totally agree with her, I really, really wanted to tell her to shut up.
They have to stretch the definition in some places, make a few concessions to personal additions (coffee, for example), and off they go.They plant a huge garden, buy mail-order baby chicks and turkeys, begin to haunt the local farmer's market, and, from the sounds of it, buy freezers, food dehydrators, and other food-storage materials.This seems like it would be ripe for funny stories about eating nothing but dehydrated tomatoes in January and being overwhelmed with zucchini in July (which they are and the story is mildly funny).The book ends up being more diatribe than diary, however.
Instead what we get is the author, her husband and her daughter, bloviating at how much America and Americans suck..how Europe is so much better..and the list goes on.
Unbelievable, Simply Unbelievable!!If I didn't have to read this book for a live book group, it would have been returned after the first 100 pages.
You are the first book to ever go on a could not finish bookshelf in my 37 years of reading books.
I have read numerous authors who I have not agreed with...Marx, Alinsky, both Clintons, Obama(just to name a few)..yet I have always been able to finish the book.
