https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/298854.Satyagraha_in_South_Africa
All of his thoughts, mistakes, errors of judgment, successes, joys, interpretations of events and personages - he lays them all out here.He gives inside information and his thoughts on the following:* the Boers and the Boer War, with Lord Kitchener's use of concentration camps for the women and children;* the Zulus and the so-called "Zulu Rebellion" - which was just a turkey shoot/massacre because the Zulu chief told his people not to pay a tax;* what South Africa was like before the Europeans got there;* the important issue of indenture and its interaction with the Indian population's development;* the tactics of General Smuts and how Gandhi dealt with them;* self-purification, how to do it and what it means for satyagraha's success;* and many, many other issues.I hope this doesn't sound trite, but I felt that Gandhi was talking with me, telling me his story as from one friend to another.It is an exciting story as well.
Satyagraha explained.
Great book and lot of learning about the ways of Gandhi and his struggle in South Africa.
As the title states, Satyagraha in South Africa offers a historical account of Mahatma Gandhi's leadership of nonviolent resistance by Indian immigrants against the South African government.
Less philosophical than the more well-known Hind Swaraj, Satyagraha can read a little fast and slow at the wrong times, as Gandhi seems to gloss over some of the major events of the resistance movement while lingering over lists of names and exchanges of letters.
As one of his earliest works, Satyagraha in South Africa offers some fascinating insights into Gandhi's doubts and deliberations as he works through the basics of his life philosophy, and these remain the greatest value of the book.
يتناول اعمال غاندي في جنوب افريقيافي الفترة الني سبقت قيام الاتحاد عام 1910هو كتاب جميل بيتناول تفاصيل كتير اجتماعية تتعلق بالفترة ديهوتناول كمان اسس كتير و اواصر نشاءة السياسات العنصريةم عيناير 2014
This book is essential for seeing the differences between satyagraha and 'passive resistance.'Gandhi writes well, making this an interesting narrative as well as a guide to the principles of non-violence.
رغم إنه اللغة العربية من أغنى وأقوة اللغات أدبياً إلا إنه أغلب المترجمين العرب مع الأسف ضعيفين في الترجمة!الكتاب فيه كم كبير من الأخطاء الإملائية والنحوية وأخطاء في علامات الترقيم... ناهيكم عن ضعف تكوين الجمل وعدم الفصاحة!أحياناً اضطر إلى قراءة المقطع أكثر من مرة .الآن بخصوص الكتاب نفسه جميل إنه بين السطور تجد الحكمة والذكاء في فكر غاندي، لأنه بدل من أن يسرد الأخلاقيات ذكرها ليستنتج القراء الفكرة بأنفسهم. وبغض النظر عن عدم تسلسل الأفكار وضياع المحتوى وقلة الترتيب في كتابة قصة حياته إلا إنه شخصية ملفتة ومثيرة للإهتمام.
Very good book. I now feel that I'm beginning to understand the true essence of Satyagarah!
Great book. Principle of satyagraha and the history of its application in the struggle of South Africa is quite inspirational.
استطيع فعلا ان اقول انه شخص من زمن اخر !قدرته على التسامح فظظظيعه !عموما كان شي مختلف لم اعتاد عليه هذا بالنسبه لغاندي ،وبالنسبه للكتاب جيد جدا واسلوبه جميل 3/5
درس في الاحسان لمن اساء اليك...
