https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/197753.Custer_Died_for_Your_Sins
I know that sounds hokey, but this book, "God is Red," and "Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee," flipped a switch in my head that I have never wanted to turn off.
I was raised by civil rights activists, and my dad was born on an Indian reservation in the Midwest (he is not Indian) so I had some sort of context for what Deloria was talking about...where my dad grew up he said the word "Indian" was like the N word in the south...Deloria lit the fire of Indian Pride, Brown Power and AIM...and while it took me a few more years and a lot of conversations with indigenous friends to decide to spend my life studying indigenous cultures prior to European contact rather than the modern period...these three books are where it all began.

The interview, written by a white journalist, was all about the ways Native Americans appreciate the earth, in other words, the kind of bullshit that drove Vine up the wall.
It was tearing the res' apart and still is.Vine was ahead of his time, ahead of these developments, but he foresaw the inevitable capitalistic conversion of the Native American--and in this book sets us up for it.
They wiped out the indigenous people of this continent in the most brutal of ways and now we want to go back and "appreciate" the Indian way...after we stripped the Native Americans of everything they had: their land, their way of life, their language...and yea, now they are capitalists too.
Land was stolen, treaties were broken and even to this day Native American land is still expropriated and exploited.
He argues that demonstrating for middle class rights from the White Power structure is meaningless because Native Americans don’t want any part of the White world.
Surely raising awareness of this issue, a vital one to the Native American community, can only be a positive rather than retreating into isolation.
It’s such shortsighted and almost selfish attitude of not caring what the War on Poverty might do for Black, Hispanic, or other minority groups in the cities.
Christanity swept across the conquerors like the white man later swept across North America, destroying native religions and leaving paralyzed groups of disoriented individuals in its wake.
As such, this does make for slower reading as you feel you may be taking in information that actually doesn't hold precedent in the 'now'.The only other reason this has four stars is due to a disagreement I had with Delorias on the concept of Corporations, and how he believed the infusion of a Native American tribalism could be combined with the concept of the White Mans attempt at tribalism to make Indian lives better.
I learned a lot about Indian culture, but I also learned that white culture either doesn't exist or is founded on violence and exploitation.
A good chunk of the book is taken up with Deloria Jr.'s elevation of Indian culture above white (and specifically, American culture).
Deloria Jr. essentially declares himself arbiter of culture and philosophy, with the power to crown Indian culture as the greatest of all human cultures in history.Along with this is his less-than-subtle, somewhat prophetic declarations that Indians will one day drive whites out of America and retake their land.
My feelings are very mixed on this book.
At the same time, I disagree with much of what he says, especially his feelings about separatism and certainly his characterization of whites.
Certainly he had reasons for feeling that way, but prejudice towards the majority isn't exactly more commendable than prejudice towards the minority.
I suppose its wholesome to see how being prejudged based on your color feels every now and then.At times I would think that the book is now outdated, which would make it less important, but some of his points are still very relevant.
This book shed alot of light on the history of Native Americans in the U.S. I learned quite a bit that I didn't know previous. Deloria's mix of humor and factual information had me laughing and nodding my head as I read many of the chapters.He's brutally honest about European/white treatment of Native Americans but the truth hurts.
Deloria's perspective on U.S. history was both discomforting and eye-opening. Whenever someone (clearly caucasian) tells me about their Cherokee princess great-great grandmother, I think of Vine Deloria's book.

The fact that there exists two active organizations mentioned above, the NCAI and the NIYC trying to make better lives for their constituents by focusing on strong tribal membership and short-term projects demonstrates their desire to achieve a state of their own determination (p.
Another example of their intentional desires is the continued existence and active participation of the oldest Indian-run organization: the League of Nations, Pan-American Indians (p.18).As mentioned earlier a central theme running throughout Deloria’s manifesto is that tribes need to unite together to achieve their goals.
The parts dealing with intersectionality were particularly interesting to me.
It shows how the U.S. refused to acknowledge their ways yet many of them survive today.
I've read numerous times of people going to Native Reservations to "see how they live" or to "watch" them.
This book did show the stereotypes that many white people have regarding the Native Americans.
These stereotypes also extend to what Indians believe "white" people believe.
Regardless it shows how ignorant we all are regarding the Native Americans and their history and cultures.
In some ways, it shows just how far we have come since this book was originally written.
Amazing, influential, and brilliant.
Full of information I didn't know about the Indian situation in the 1960's (and before that). Interesting read, even if I couldn't really parse all the information.
He writes about a combination of politics, religion, indians, the bia, etc to explain alot about native americans as an everyday person.IE they don't want to be romanticized, etc.
Plus it explained what happened with the gov'ts assimilation plan.
IN regards to assimilation, states that the original plan outlined that was proposed was a good one and probably workable.
Unfortunately Congress and the political parties involved did not hold to this plan.
This is mostly National forest land now, the forest I live down the street from, in the city that once sat on the Klamath Rez. It's still the tribal home.The other is Osage, who happened to have oil.hmmm coincidence?
there were some very interesting points, and stuff that i hadn't considered, even though i feel like i have thought a lot about the history of colonization of this land called the united states.
there's a chapter on the relationship between tribes & the feds & tribes & the BIA which i found very informative.
there's also a whole chapter on indian humor that's really funny & although i felt a little like a voyeur reading it, i still laughed a lot & enjoyed it.
i didn't finish the end because it gets very capitalist-oriented.
i'd recommend this book, even if you don't finish it.

I abandoned this book because when I first tried reading it it seemed like such a pack of cliches.But (especially after seeing _The Lone Ranger_ last night with a group of people old enough to remember the television show) now I think this might be one of those books like Silent Spring or The Feminine Mystique that so transformed the world that it's hard for me to imagine what it was like before, and as such, perhaps it is worth revisiting.
I read the 1969 version but I think there is a more recent version from the 80's. I couldn't help but wish there was an even more recent version.Didn't agree with everthing said, didn't buy that Indian culture is so much better than the white world and that the white world has nothing redeeming in it except for when it has similarities to the Indian way of life.Found the very distinct and unique point of view eye opening and informative and the book is worth reading for those things alone.
Probably the most widely read work by the late Vine DeLoria, and quite instructive as it addresses cultural stereotypes, the historical record of colonialism and U.S. expansion, including the broken treaties and ethnic cleansing and their consequences as described in the 20th century. While the specific policy analysis is dated, the broader view and observations of the 20th century are still pertinent and held my interest. I also enjoyed DeLoria's writing, rich with humor even while addressing subjects and events that are outrageous.
Deloria's dry humor made a difficult topic--American Indian experiences--into a readable history. He even went so far as to devote an entire section to Native American humor, further breaking up the book's overall serious tone. However, the book is, first and foremost, a call to awareness. As Deloria repeats throughout its pages, Native American people SHALL ENDURE. They are still here. They will not vanish. And as such, their experiences, varying from tribe to tribe, region to region, must be acknowledged.
This is a powerful, important book. It addresses many aspects of history that have continued to be suppressed and all but erased. It's devastating to realize how little has changed since it was written in 1988.
Necessary and enlightening reading for anyone who attended University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and/or who thinks popular Native-themed mascots are neither stereotypical nor racist.
This is an important book in social consciousness and history. Read this book years ago. I have required it in my Master's classes.
excellent book. everyone should read this to gain insight into the history of America's indigenous peoples post-arrival of European immigrants.
The book all Native Americans should read. You will laugh at the humor, think on the things Deloria says and at the the society around you.
first read this book when I was a young person, now I am giving it for summer reading to my 12 year old
why u can't say, "but im just appreciating culture and also my grandma was pocahontas," aka Custer Died for Your Sins, aka Vine Deloria Jr. throws massive shade
But Indians have been cursed above all other people in history.
It's reasonably typical of the book: witty, contrarian, and filled with an anger that is righteous but not self-righteous.
Some of the chapters focus very closely on what were contemporary political concerns for American Indian activists in the late 1960s.
They are unavoidably dated, and occasionally indulge in political point scoring at the expense of other activist groups, which may or not have been justified (I don't know enough to judge).
But it's still an immensely readable and humane book.
