https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77203.The_Kite_Runner
One day I saw Ali, Afghan student, came to me and had a booklet in his hand and I saw in his eyes several times as if he wanted to say something, but he was quiet.
He was written he is working at a bookstore in Kabul and he has read almost thousand books in three years.
علی لابلای صفحه های کتاب برام از افغانستان میگفت از این که چطور بیست نفر با یه سواری وارد ایران شدن ازینکه چطور بچه های کلاس اون رو بخاطر لهجه افغانی مسخره میکنن از این که عصرها بعد از مدرسه مجبوره تووی کارگاه اجر پزی کار کنه.
هفته بعد که باز سر کلاس رفتم علی رو ندیدم.
You don't get to fill them with your favorite colors.""...attention shifted to him like sunflowers turning to the sun.""But even when he wasn't around, he was.""When you kill a man, you steal a life.
There is no act more wretched than stealing.""...she had a voice that made me think of warm milk and honey.""My heart stuttered at the thought of her.""...and I would walk by, pretending not to know her, but dying to.""It turned out that, like satan, cancer had many names.""Every woman needed a husband, even if he did silence the song in her.""The first time I saw the Pacific, I almost cried.""Proud.
It may include some random words in my native language for no reason whatsoever.
You are going to be shocked.
You're never going to see this coming.What comes next is the big revelation, so get ready!Wait, I need to ask you something first.
Here it is:On that frigid overcast day, which happened to be the day that I decided to quit reading The Kite Runner, I became a book snob.
Enjoy!"Later that day, I saw that monkey flying a kite in front of the Washington Monument.
And it does all this without revealing any understanding of the vast and vital economic concerns which make the greater mid-east so vitally important to the future of the world.It is unfortunate that nowhere amongst this book's artfully dramatized violence and alternative praising and demonizing of the West is there the underlying sense of why this conflict is happening, of what put it all into place, and of why it will continue to drag us all down.
This book will make people feel better about themselves, instead of helping them to think better about the world.For an actually insightful, touching view of the Afghan conflict, I would suggest avoiding this bit of naive melodrama and looking up Emmanuel Guibert's 'The Photographer'.
The members of the servant class in this story suffer tragic, unspeakable calamities, sometimes at the hands of our fine hero, and yet the novel seems to expect the reader to reserve her sympathies for the "wronged" privileged child, beating his breast over the emotional pain of living with the wounds he has selfishly inflicted upon others.
(And, moreover, in the end it is Sohrab (Hassan again) who saves him.) I finished the novel resenting Amir, and even more intensely resenting the author for trying to make the reader think she's supposed to care about Amir, more than about anyone else in the story.A couple other points: I'm wondering if one theme of the novel is that there are no definitive happy endings, no single immutable moments of epiphany or redemption.
لعنتی آن قدر بی غل و غش بود که پیش او آدم همیشه حس میکرد ریاکار است**بابا گفت: «خوبه.» اما نگاهش حیران بود.
4.5 stars!Oh, my heart. This was heartbreaking and beautifully written!
I kept putting it off because while I was sure that it would be a fantastic book, it isn't the type of smutty romance that I usually read.
Finally, I found myself wanting to read something a little different to break me out of a reading rut and I downloaded the Audible version of 'The Kite Runner' and started listening.As expected, this book was nothing like my usual love stories.
If you're like me, and have always been blessed to live in a country where you've never experienced the brutality and terror of warfare firsthand, this book serves as a reminder of how lucky you truly are.
It did something with me… and I’m still not sure whether this was good or bad.All I know is that the injustice in this book made me furious and that I just have to think about it and already feel sick to my stomach again.
I don’t understand it and if I’m entirely honest I really think that it was good he felt bad throughout the entire book!
I loved Hassan with all my heart and I think his only flaw was that he was just too good to live in this sick and violent world.
I'm really mad at myself for taking so long to read this. SUCH a good book, and while it may not be worthy of 5 stars for me, I really did love it and it broke my heart a hundred times. I look forward to reading Hosseini's other books, most likely this year.
my problems with the novel are as follows: first of all the writing itself is so ham-fistened, heavy-handed, distracting and otherwise puzzling that by the midway point, i seriously considered chucking the book against the wall.
i don't know if that was supposed to be funny or not, but it made me laugh (and what was worse was the san francisco's chronicle's glowing review on the book's cover and the san francisco chronicle's glowing review of amir's novel--coincidence?).
what makes it worse, is that the narrator, amir then explains that while that may, in fact, seem like a coincidence, it happens in afghanistan happens all the time.
Personally, as a white American, this book made me grateful that I grew up where I did, and once again reminded me of how good I've had it, and how little I really know about life outside these insular, isolationist, United States.Another critic claimed that this book "...portrays Afghanistan as backward" Personally I thought that it portrayed it as a war torn, deeply wounded country that was at one time a bit like our ante-bellum south.
For the personal perspective alone, I think this book is a worthwhile, if sometimes uncomfortable, read.
‘for you, a thousand times over.’ no words can describe the heaviness i am feeling in my heart right now. i will never re-read this as it is too emotionally devastating (i genuinely cant remember the last time a book made me cry so much), but i know it is a story that will stay will me for the rest of my life. of that, i have no doubt. also, john, thanks for recommending this book, but i will be sending you my bill for all the therapy i will need after this. ↠ 5 stars
Hosseini is simply some guy who feels guilty about having escaped what so many of his fellow countrymen couldn't, and he makes up for it in fantasy in a million ways: accepting his fallen father, marrying an "unsuitable" woman, listening to a voice from the past, saving the son of his friend he watched being raped decades before (when he was too selfish to intervene), stomaching the live stoning of a burka-clad woman and her adulterous lover, taking a beating from an old enemy/Taliban child molestor, giving $2000 to a poor smuggler who tries to feed his kids on $3 a week, and saving a 12 year-old from suicide.
Baba and Ali had been friends too in childhood, strange since Hassan's father is just a Hazara (Mongol), Hassan's promiscuous mother, had left them to join a group of dancers , a detested minority in the country , hated and persecuted, by the dominant Pashtuns, they call themselves the real Afghans...But the world never stays the same, always moving forward for better or worse and it gets much, much worse, King Zahir Shah, peaceful, forty year reign is ended , overthrown, by his disloyal cousin, Daoud Khan, making himself the President of the Republic, whatever that is ...The communist kill the usurper, the Russians invade and forty bloody years later the wars continue...
But alas.The book fails exactly where it most needs to succeed - in the depiction of the Taliban.
When we do not have an archive, or the possibility of getting at the facts and narratives of a part of history, fiction can be used creatively and responsibly in order to construct something real.
After years of research, Endore writes a history of a slave engaged in rebellion just prior to the Haitian Revolution.Hosseini has the skills but not the courage nor the empathy/sympathy to portray the Taliban as historical, sociological, economic, modern creations.
”For you, a thousand times over.”We are currently experiencing some expressional difficulties. Should be back in business once emotions are in full functioning mode.

Before I started this book, I distinctively remember running my hands over the cover, over the embossed letters that read, The Kite Runner, with not a thought spared but just a sense of hope and anticipation.Now, after I've finished it, I'm once again running my hands over them.Those letters that read, The Kite Runner. Those letters that mean a lot more than what they seemed to a few days ago.Yes.Oh. No.Yes.Oh. Oh. This is just a tiny fraction of "Oh"s that I felt during my journey through this
Oh. This is just a tiny fraction of "Oh"s that I felt during my journey through this beauty and beast of a book.
If you want a psychoanalysis of the characters and a dissection of the plot lines, with a thousand different adjectives for the mesmerizingly written prose, you're at the wrong place.
Yes, I feel beauty.
Love towards this book.
Towards everything that should not have gone wrong.
And I feel hatred.
No.And at everything that did go wrong.
I feel horror
And I feel love again
And I feel love again
And I feel a lot more.
This is a wonderful, moving novel set in the Afghanistan of the early 70’s and of today, about a young boy and his friend growing up in Kabul.
Amir desperately wants his father’s approval, but Baba is not quick to give it.
He is a rich man, brimming with macho vibrancy, while his son is a different sort altogether.
Amir is fast friends with Hassan, the son of his father’s servant.
But, beset by bullies, an event occurs that changes Amir’s life.
But there is also emotional richness, and a look into the inner life.
A wonderful tale, movingly told.
" إنها قصة لا تنسى ، تظل معك لسنوات ..
إنها قوية لحد جعل كل ما قرأته بعدها ، ولفترة طويلة ، يبدو بلا طعم " إزابيل ألليندى هل تعرفه ؟ الحقيقة أنك لم تعرفه بعد ولن تعرفه ما لم تقرأ هذه الرائعة ." لأجلك ألف مرة ومرة " إحساس غريب ينتابنى عند قراءة هذه الجملة، حاله من الفرح، ورغبة فى البكاء ..
الحقيقة لا أعرف ما هو شعورى حينها الجزء الاول فيها فوق الممتاز ..
أما الجزء الثانى فلم يكن على نفس القدر ؛ لكنه رائع أيضاً .رواية تقترب من الحقيقة كثيراً ..
الحقيقة التى ندركها لكن لا نعِ بتفاصيلها .رواية ذات قيمة أدبية عالية .رواية سيخلدها التاريخ .
رواية تظل عالقة فى الاذهان ..
عانيت كثيرا من ضيق فى التنفس أثناء قراءتى لهذه الرواية , و خصوصا الجزء الأول, الأمر الذى كان له أثر 
It took me a week or so with Blink since I wasn’t very enthralled, making it easier to put it down at night when it was my bed time.Kite Runner, I started over a long weekend and could not for the life of me put it down.
I tend to take note of books I know my dad will enjoy and as I read them I jot down notes on post its for my dad and flag the relevant pages.
Before Kite Runner, the only books I’ve read with war in the background were Anne Frank’s diary, The Hiding Place, and Night.

I read this novel five years ago and I confess, at that time, It was my best read for some time.I enjoyed this book....Amir the narrator of novel has narrated it beautifully.The sense of insecurity in the father-son relation has been woven nicely and the sense of redemption and guilt is main theme in the psyche of narrator.I found entire story heart wrenching and the scenes and plot around the friendship of two boys from two different and opposite strata of the society were perfectly written and composed by Khaled.Novel's depiction is full of warmth and humor.Being a first work of Khaled, I admire his way of writing and the way he advances his story.Don't be surprised, If you find your eyes wet sometimes while turning some of the pages of the kite runner...
Loved this.Film was terrible.
So, Amir walks right into the Taliban compound and asks to see the wizard, I mean their leader, and is allowed to do so (actually it was more difficult for Dorothy to get in to see the wizard, she should have taken Amir with her) and when he gets in, we find out that Hassan’s son is made to dress like a monkey - GET IT A MONKEY – ya know like the monkey that Amir and Hassan would go see (too bad it wasn’t a flying monkey) – and provide entertainment for the Taliban, and provide sexual services for Assef – the same guy that had sex with Hassan and, now the obviously simple minded reader that Hosseini wrote for, says, “that is so weird the way that all happened, wow, I cant believe the way this is all coming together, this is sooooooo fascinating!” Oh, and for the thinking reader with any literary competence who MAY think that this is too much of a coincidence, don’t be so critical; this issue was already addressed when Amir ran into a beggar that happened to have taught with (and remembered doing so) Amir’s mother.
“There are a lot of children in Afghanistan, but little childhood.”I’ve read books before with an unreliable narrator and also read accounts of cowardice and shame.
Amir’s journey is one of deliverance and redemption.Hosseini’s skill and adept description of a modern day caste system where an invisible division existed between the favored Pashtun and the disadvantaged Hazara may be a tale of Afghanistan, but this abstract and superficial distinction can also be a universal cautionary story about racism, intolerance and bigotry.Beautifully written and told with compassion, empathy and with a skilled writer’s eye for detail and expression, this can also be a painful book to read.
"For you, a thousand times over."Every now and again, a book comes along, and leaves my heart physically aching afterwards.
"The Kite Runner" A fairly simple title, for an absolutely amazing book.
This is the second book I've read from him, and he certainly hasn't disappointed.
My Mother has read this, but she struggled with the exceptionally painful story, which I can understand, as, at times, I had to shut the book, and take a few deep breaths before venturing to continue.
What inspired me the most in this book, was the amazing friendship that existed between Hassan and Amir.
I AM SO EMOTIONAL DON'T TOUCH ME.This story was beautiful and I learned so much from it and man. Just so good.I also read this for #diversathon (even though I'm finishing it about a week later) and I really feel like I learned so much about a culture that I really knew nothing about. It was eye opening and interesting and so educational. The characters were beautifully written and Amir was fantastically developed. Overall the plot was engaging though the pacing lacked at times. The message was beautiful and the ending made me cry.Read this book IT IS GREAT.
