https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/184059.The_Moor
(Here be spoilers)Holmes--"Russell, come to rainy, foggy Devonshire."Mary---"No." (Changes mind)Mary tramps through mud, gets wet, dirty, hungry cold.
Takes bath.The Reverend Baring-Gould, "I won't be around much, but I am old, my house is queer, and I don't think much of you, only Holmes."Mary, "Likewise, I'm sure."Mary tramps through mud, gets wet, dirty, hungry cold.
Takes bath.Repeat.Mary and Holmes learn nothing, but remain in Devonshire.Holmes, "I know I sent for you in a great hurry, but now I'm going to London.
Must be off."Mary tramps through mud, gets wet, dirty, hungry cold.
Dear Miss Russell/ Mrs. Holmes,Having perused the earlier installments of your chronicles with a good degree of enjoyment, I regret to say that I am somewhat disappointed in this one.
The mystery’s premise is valid, if rather simple, but the execution is sorely lacking.
Where’s the suspense?
Where’s the fun?
Your Mr. Holmes often disparages Mr. Conan Doyle for excessively romanticizing accounts of his cases, but I think you could learn a thing or two from him about creating genuinely suspenseful, compelling narratives.
I sincerely hope that the next installment of your reminiscences will be much improved.Yours Sincerely,A Reader
It's always a crap shoot when a new author decides to play off well known characters and create a new set of stories (I can't fully describe how most of the Jane Austen knock-offs horrify and disgust me).But I should have given Laurie King more credit, because The Moor not only held it's own, but surpassed my expectations 3-fold.King has created an interesting character in Mary Russell, wife of fictional sleuth extraordinaire Sherlock Holmes.
I especially loved all the references to The Hound of the Baskervilles, which ended up playing a part (once again) in the solving of the case.I don't hesitate to recommend The Moor to fans of the Holmes canon.
This was a very good adventure with Mary Russell and her husband Sherlock Holmes and they've gone back to the Dartmoor and the Baskervilles. I guess I knew "whodunnit" but it was the how and why that was the real enjoyment in this novel. After all, the journey is the real point. Poor Mary, though, thrown from horses, spending your nights on the moor in the rain and wind, losing her spectacles...
A female sleuth who rivals the great Holmes himself !Holmes and Russell return to Dartmoor to help an old friend of Holmes, the Reverend Sabine Baring-Gould, with the mysterious sighting of what appears to be the return of the hounds of the Baskerville's .
I picked this book apart, researching Baring-Gould and his writings, the presence of military on Dartmoor, the old myths and legends of Dartmoor, it's music and it's people, along with the gold "rush" of Dartmoor, and found King to be historically accurate.
So if you are a history buff, and love a good old fashion mystery, I strongly suggest reading King's book.

Reading this, the fourth episode in King's Mary Russell series, was made more enjoyable by immediately preceding it with a re-read of The Hound of the Baskervilles.
The plot and characters of arguably the greatest of Sherlock Holmes stories was thus firmly in my head, ready to inform my reading of King's offering.
King does a superb job of evoking the most important "character" in the novel - and in The Hound of the Baskervilles for that matter - that is, Dartmoor itself: dark, lonely, mysterious, beautiful and threatening.
This was by far the worst book of the Marry Russel series.
King simply has a difficult time staying on topic with this book.
In fact there was no suspense at all.
The whole book consisted of Mary Russel wandering around the moor, talking to ignorant residents and taking hot baths.
In fact, had she mentioned taking a hot bath one more time, I might have puked.
She included far too many geographical references which were not even pertinent to the acutal mystery.
Simply do not waste your time with this story, if it can even rightfully be called a story.
I'm finding that as I get further into this series, I'm not enjoying the books as much. I think it's because there's less material about the relationship between the two main characters, Sherlock Holmes and his now-wife Mary Russell, and their personalities. I really enjoyed the first two books that followed their courtship while they were engaged in solving mysteries.The mystery in this book is not meaty enough to carry the novel on its own. I think more time was spent describing Dartmoor than in presenting the reader with an interesting puzzle to solve, and I became somewhat bored.
This particular book, however, I not only figured out within a chapter or two, but the continual droning on and on about the moor-- while vaguely interesting to begin with-- became as monotonous as walking continually around in it must have been to the characters.
I know, you're probably starting this book and thinking- but Heather _said_ this series was great, why am I only liking this book, not adOring it.
Read it, finish it, pick up O Jerusalem, and get back into the adventure.That said, there are some interesting characters and scenes in Moor.
I ran out of books on my vacation and someone lent me this to read.
I was definitely into the book.
I thought the play on the well known Holmes and his relationship with his wife was intriguing.
Mary Russell is a strong female character but at times seemed to fall into the submissive role.
This made her more believable to me as a human.
The disappointment in this book was the ending.
I definitely felt and feel that this could have been handled with as much attention to detail as the rest of the novel.
It's great fun to watch the investigation into new reports of spectral happenings on the Moor, punctuated by Holmes's disgust with the common man's susceptibility and Russell's very private never-spoken niggling question as to whether in such a weird (in the classical sense) place as this the supernatural might not be real.
Like the Doctor Who episode Vincent and the Doctor – which was something of a valentine to the artist, not so much never-was-or-could-be as an I-wish-this-could-have-been (and I really do) - it's a lovely thing to imagine that this great aficionado of Holmes, Sabine Baring-Gould, was in fact the detective's old and valued friend.
Russell could get away with this remark if she were merely Jewish, but she's a scholar of theology who appears to focus a great deal on Christian history and interpretation at Oxford.
So I can complain if I like.But here's a neat little ironic historical tie-in and one of the reasons I love and enjoy Laurie R.
According to the Wikipedia entry on Sabine Baring Gould, one of Baring-Gould's grandsons, William Stuart Baring Gould, was "a noted Sherlock Holmes scholar who wrote a fictional biography of the great detective—in which, to make up for the lack of information about Holmes's early life, he based his account on the childhood of Sabine Baring-Gould." Laurie R.
Mary Russell is summoned by Sherlock Holmes to Dartmoor to help investigate a mysterious death that is said to be heralded by a phantom coach carrying long-dead noblewoman over the moors. Around the dead body was it oversized paw prints…This book is especially interesting since it brings Sherlock Holmes back to Dartmoor, the place where The Hound of the Baskervilles cases took place. It’s quite a dark and chilly tale, and the dark and deadly moor adds a special atmosphere to the tale. Like the previous books a 5-star book!
Mary Russell and Sherlock Holmes return to the scene of The Hound of the Baskervilles. There’s a mystery, and it is, of course, solved, but the main fascination for this reader was the atmospheric Dartmoor setting combined with a portrayal of the real life character, Sabine Baring-Gould (reverend, folklore collector, antiquary, writer) and the evolution of Mary’s relationship with him and the moor.
Greatly entertaining as King has Holmes (and Russell) revist Dartmoor, the site of the earlier Conan Doyle story, "The Hound of the Baskervilles"
Love this series and the indomitable couple of Sherlock Holmes and his lovely, astute and resourceful wife Mary Russell.
She certainly brings up her game on this tricky case where they return to the scene of one of Sherlock Holmes more notorious crime scenes – the Moor and the case of the hound of the Baskervilles.
Brought back by a long time friend of Sherlock Homes, the Reverend Baring-Gould to investigate not so much of a case but rather a sense of something not-quite-right in the Moor: mysterious sightings of a legendary ghostly coach and the ever-present spectre of the hound of the Baskerville.
Mary Russell and Sherlock Holmes series Book #4Autum 1923Dartmoor, the sight of Sherlock Holmes famous case The Hound of the Baskervilles.
Another hound has been sighted along with a "ghostly coach" and a dead body.
I was excited to read this one; broody, dark moor, and ghostly sightings.
I am afraid that I did not find him or his life compelling enough to carry his part of the story.
This resulted in a lot of boredom on my part through a good chunk of the story.
Well, nothing is 100%, and I love this series and will read the rest!
With any other novel, I would have put it down and started a new one, however I love Mary Russell and Ms King's characterization of Holmes, so I stuck with it instead.Happily, I wasn't disappointed.The Hound of the Baskervilles is my absolute favorite Sherlock Holmes story.
Sure, it has almost a completely new cast of characters.
I'm used to her being all modern, but she just fell back into the old ways in this book.
She took Watson's place really well in this book, without much ingenuity or characteristic Holmesian way.
An average way to start the year.
One of the best in the Russell/Holmes series in my opinion. For first time readers I always suggest reading this on a day when its raining or during a thunderstorm. Then you really feel like your in the Dartmoor setting.
Mary Russell joins her husband Sherlock Holmes to investigate more strange sightings on the Dartmoor moors.Number Four in the series.Firstly, there is not much of a mystery.
Indeed, if readers are expecting a sequel, they will be disappointed.Secondly, Mary Russell.
I also found grating the way it is pointed out to the reader that Mary and Sherlock Holmes have sex.
Very little happens for much of its 200 plus pages, but in a funny kind of way, I enjoyed it.
This promises much, but delivers little, beyond trying to work how much of this character driven, or just author fantasy.
In the end I enjoyed this one so much that I tried limiting how much I read each day to make it last longer, but failed miserably, finishing it off in three days.The Moor won't appeal to those who need a tight plot, lots of action and all the usual mystery suspects.
Instead it appeals to those who love interesting settings that become part of the story, eccentric characters, and Mary Russell.King's writing is a pleasure to read.
Recommended to those who can enjoy books as much for the setting and mood as the plot.NB - The audiobooks are wonderful, too.

Wow, I really enjoyed this book. Read it in about five hours at a straight run with only a short pause for lunch. Mary remains a self-assured and interesting heroine/narrator, her relationship with husband Sherlock continues to amuse and entertain, and the historical figure of Sabine Baring-Gould was a great supporting character, fully fleshed out and three dimensional. King also does a great job making allusions to Conan Doyle's Hound of the Baskervilles without relying too heavily on the story.As always, the conclusion to the case wasn't too obvious, and the finale was satisfyingly exciting. Highly recommended!
Not the best of the bunch, it was just ok. I see now some even say to skip this one. Mary is summoned by Sherlock to the moor at Dartmoor, the location of The Hound of the Baskervilles. She doesn't want to go, reluctantly stays, and proceeds to walk the moor, get muddy and wet, has some tea, and takes a bath... repeatedly. Meh. The mystery seemed sound, but went nowhere, and finished with a thrown together, partial resolution.
Awesome as usual!
This aptly named novel has Mary Russell trudging all over Dartmoor, assisting Holmes in a murder investigation on behalf of an elderly, dying friend.
This sequence is repeated several times.I wasn’t blown away by the mystery, and since I haven’t read The Hound of the Baskervilles, the return to the scene of that novel didn’t have any impact on me.
I did enjoy the setting, where the Moor is almost a character.
I like the way these books are written.
I like Mary, and I enjoy her relationship with Holmes, even while I’m indignant over their age difference.
This book is interesting but a bit boring. The plot has little tension and Russell spends a lot of time being miserable.
Full disclosure (which will be pretty obvious): Laurie King is my favorite author.
Well, at least the one who is still alive and breathing, with a few others who give her a run for her money.And this is my favorite of her books, partly for idiosyncratic reasons.
But if you, like me, fell madly in love with Sherlock Holmes in your childhood and were a little startled at the idea of him finding an apprentice and then wife, this may be the book for you.I began with the idea "nah, she can't possibly do a good job with this." Well, ladles and germs, she did, she can and she does.
Even though it sounds like a very hard life, and a very difficult terrain, I would love to visit it, in the spring of course...
YIKES!!)I believe I knew who the "bad guy" was before the end, which is ok for me, in this series..
I love being swept along with the story, right through to the end, and not being for-sure who "done it" makes the ride that much better.
I love this.I cannot wait for the next book in the series, but I think I have to take a break from near-Victorian England for a little while in another book.
