https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17456328-the-paris-architect

Sure, the character who gets killed totally deserved it, but the kid never appears to wrestle with any feelings about this incident one way or the other, before or after.
Towards the end, it looks like the main character might get killed for his actions, and I just couldn't bring myself to care one way or the other about it.Less important, but still annoying:3.
I almost stopped reading it a quarter of the way in because of points #1 and #2, but the reviews kept me going, hoping it'd get better.
O Vírus BenignoLucien é um arquiteto ambicioso que não sente particular empatia pelo sofrimento alhe
It starts with great historical details of life in Paris during WW2, then the excitement builds and builds and builds.
Yeah, tons of fun.But I have to tell you this: the narration of the audiobok was t-e-r-r-i-b-l-e…..by Mark Bramhall.
I mean his French and German dialects were laughable.
Good book, but lousy narration.
As usual, I am rating the book, not the narration when I give those stars.
The book captures the French and how they looked upon the Nazi occupation of Paris.
Some French were great and some Germans too!
Classical and Bauhaus and ….oh you have to read this fun, exciting, scary and amusing book.
These events are not drawn from one particular case; rather, the author says he got the idea from the story of Nicholas Owen, a Jesuit lay brother who devoted the greater part of his life to constructing hiding places to protect the lives of persecuted priests during the reign of Elizabeth 1.In 1942 Paris, all Jewish people are being rounded up by the Nazis; sadly for the Jews, most of the French are unsympathetic to their plight.
But it all gets personal for Lucien when Manet convinces him to care for a Jewish boy for a couple of weeks; Lucien suddenly has the son he's always wanted...The story has not many likeable characters excepting perhaps Manet and Bette.
The small Jewish girl hiding in plain sight says so much about the work of gifted architect, Lucien Bernard, the flawed protagonist of Charles Belfoure’s THE PARIS ARCHITECT.Lucian is fairly despicable at the start of the novel.
It is all the same to him, as long as he gets paid, until he makes a personal connection with a Jew that ends disastrously.I asked myself many times in the reading of this novel how I could care about such a heartless protagonist, but the riveting story, my curiosity about his innovation, and my wish to see his growth compelled me forward.
“We shape our buildings; thereafter they shape us.”  ----Winston ChurchillCharles Belfoure, a national bestselling author, has penned a heart-touching as well as enlightening and nostalgic novel, The Paris Architect, that accounts the story of an architect based in Paris during the world war II when German have occupied the city and was ordering the Jews out of the city, when this normal regular, law-abiding architect chances upon a golden opportunity to prove his worth by taking life-threatening risks to be a hero.
Lucien, a law-abiding Parisian architect gets a job for the richest man in Paris, Monsieur Monet, who asks him to build a secret room for some of his Jewish friends.
I listened to the audiobook, and did not see them in print.•Lucien is immediately made out to be an anti-Semitic, heartless bastard.
Belfoure created a cast of deeply unlikable characters, with the exception of Manet and Juliette, who I merely found inoffensive.•Belfoure makes it seem that Nazi occupied France was entirely made up of self serving, materialistic, anti-Semitic, cowardly assholes.
Even the resistance fighters were painted as selfish and cowardly, and occasionally bumbling.•Adele was obnoxious, and I got incredibly sick of hearing about her fantastic body, the many things that aroused her, and her sexual preferences.•The Nazis spoke MUCH too freely for me to find believable.
That question was asked every single day of Lucien's life and every single day of any French citizen living in Paris during the Nazi occupation.Life definitely was not the same as before.
The author has an easy style and draws you right into the story.THE PARIS ARCHITECT is another WWII tale but with a different twist and one where the tension builds and your fear for Lucien increases as you rapidly turn the pages.This is an excellent historical fiction book with some graphic scenes that depict the atrocities of WWII, but will hold your interest until the last word because of the characters and their stories.
I really struggled with how to rate this book.On the one hand, I've read a ton of WW2 fiction and I loved how this presented a different perspective.
The story was engaging and suspenseful, and in some passages so realistic that I felt sick to my stomach.On the other hand, I really struggled with the narrative voice.
The whole thing just suffered from a lack of emotion to me.So read it, it is good.
In 1942 Paris, gifted architect Lucien Bernard is leading double lives: a dull, loveless marriage while having an affair with a famous designer and accepting commissions from a Christian to design hiding places for Jews and to design factories for the Nazis.
Living in terror, Lucien is afraid of the Gestapo (for helping Jews) as well as the resistance (for helping the German war effort), even though Lucien rationalizes his work as benefiting a post-war France.
Lucien eventually adopts a 12-year old orphan boy, finding an outlet for his love.
Heart warming story, including his spiritual bond with the German architect in charge of building the factories.
An interesting perspective on WW2 and an enjoyable read.We follow Lucien, an architect living in Nazi-occupied Paris.
Lucien shows little interest in hiding Jews but with so much money on offer how can he resist?
As time moves on Lucien begins to take satisfaction from outwitting the Nazi's and plans on making more elaborate hiding places for the helpless Jews.
I had yet to read a WW2 novel that conveys the terror of having to run and hide from the Nazi's as well as this one, you could cut the tension with a knife!
A beautiful story balancing inhumanity and humanity set in Nazi-occupied France.
Lucien Bernard is an ordinary man, driven to work for the Reich by his need to make a living and pride in his ability as an architect.
His assignments present unexpected and dangerous opportunities to challenge his design imagination.There are so many strengths in this novel, Lucien's character development as he takes risks he never suspected he is capable of, his surprising friendships with a German officer, Manet, and Bette.
Charles Belfoure does a wonderful job balancing that horror with brave and caring characters who show humanity at its best.
The Paris Architect $4.99 ebook sale has expanded to include NOOK, iBooks, Kobo and Amazon Kindle platformshttps://www.facebook.com/suzyapproved...#
It felt like the author wrote this at breakneck speed in about three weeks – the prose was crude, clunky and lacking in imagination and sophistication. The research stuck out like muddy footprints on a carpet. I couldn’t get beyond page 100.
I wish I could give it 5 stars but, while the story line is great, the author's technical skills don't live up to the promise.Lucien is a thirty-something modernist architect (think Gropius or Le Corbusier) in 1942 Paris, France.
Build Manet a "priest hole" (an undiscoverable hiding place)in an apartment for a wealthy Jewish friend and Lucien will receive a commission for a new munitions factory from Manet (and for the Nazis).
I think that this conversion would have been easier to accept if his character had been a bit stronger from the beginning.
The writing isn't the star player here, but still, this book is a very fast read, and the story will certainly keep the pages turning.
Once the halfway point hit and some children became involved in the story, I just had to know what happened.
Recommended to historical fiction lovers who don't mind a few sprinkles of torture and another male author in midlife having a few too many romps I had to tolerate and press through.
A worthwhile read, having said all that.
PS: My intention when I picked up this book on Friday night was to give it a skim and see if it was worth reading.
2.5 When this story begins Lucien is on his way to what he thinks will be an architecture job, one that will be prominent enough to enhance his reputation for the future.
The beginning was strong, the discussion and details of architecture are impeccable and any conversations having to do with these subjects are natural.
Lucien's mistress and anything to do with her I dislike immensely and wished it had not been part of the story.
Wanted to like this more than I did but felt it was worth reading if just for the detailed descriptions of architecture, that part was most interesting.ARC from NetGalley.
It is about the German effort to seek out and find the hidden Jews in order to steal their wealth.It is about the Holocaust, in that it takes place during the year 1942, in Paris, France.
Could someone’s unhappiness and greed, envy and hate, become so strong again that the reasonable answer to their pain becomes the extinction of an entire group of people, becomes the panacea for all their troubles?Fear is a motivating factor that changes us all.
Schadenfreude was the word of those times; many relished in the pain of the “others”.Lucien, an architect, was raised to be anti-Semitic by a hateful parent.
My Review: This was an impressive debut novel that hit all the major points that I love in a historical fiction read: vivid settings, wonderfully diverse, well-developed characters and a story line that was suspenseful and moved at a good pace.
The reader witnesses Lucien's struggle with his desire to be a successful architect in Paris and the fact that in order to do this he has to work with the Nazis who have brought such devastation and pain to his city.
The story takes place in German occupied Paris during World War II.
The architect, Lucien Bernard, ends up designing factories to make German armaments and hiding spaces inside homes and apartments for Jewish people on the run from the Gestapo.
Bernard designs factories because he needs work and wants to use his creativity.
He designs hiding spaces, at first, so that he can get the factory work.
As time goes on, he realizes that hiding the Jews is the most important thing he can do with his life.
The growth of Lucien throughout the book shows that people can change and that good things can happen during war.
Because I don't know if you have looked under the hanging "Literature" placard lately in the bookstore, but I swear one quarter of them has to do with World War II.
How did such an ambitious, talented architect becomes a generous, altruistic man whom uses his talents to create, invent, and lead the construction of ingenious hiding places for the Jewish?
So ingenious, indeed, that German Soldiers literally walk right over them; centimeters from their faces.
After some time, it becomes plain to Lucifer how good it feels to be able to outsmart the Germans.
With these commissions given to him by the German government, his success is practically guaranteed.
Many French people turned a blind eye to what was happening to the Jews during WWII, some gentile husbands and wives left their Jewish partners to survive, and many informed on each other.
Belfoure says that this idea of an architect who designs places for Jews to hide was inspired by a “priest hole” designer of Elizabethan times – Elizabeth was having Catholic priests sought out and executed but someone made places for them to hide, and they can be found in some Tudor houses in England that still stand today.
I'm definitely having a bad reading day!
Charles Belfoure's created atmosphere matches the time period.Anti-semitism wasn't just limited to the German occupiers, it was among the French population as well.
Business people took full advantage of the opportunity to interact (albeit privately) with German command in order to become wealthy.
But Lucien was the definition of a "dumbass." FYI, I live among Francophones and I cannot imagine any of them uttering such an Americanism.No matter how many American films they had watched.
Because I know that people are making that comparison based on the acting chops of Liam Neeson as Schindler.
I couldn't even imagine Lucien as a Frenchmen!!!
Amazing!
This is not a literary masterpiece but I really enjoyed the story, characters and the pace.
I loved how folks paths intersected to reveal unexpected outcomes.
There was just enough build up and suspense to keep me anxiously waiting to see what happened next.
The shear hatred and brutality inflicted on the Jews during this time is sickening and it's never pleasant to read a story about Nazi occupied France.
What I loved about Lucien is that his humanity eventually kicked in.
A simple matter of having a conscience and doing what is right!
We need more of that in the world!
It's 1942 in occupied Paris, the Gestapo is ruthlessly rounding up and killing Jews, a self-involved French architect who is indifferent to their fate is reluctantly recruited to design hiding places and eventually and predictably locates his conscience. Cardboard characters, laughable prose, nonstop action, anachronisms galore... A classic example of the novel as plot-driven cliché. (Second star is for Paris.)
4.5 but since this is the first novel in quite a while that I could not put down, I have rounded it up. A fast paced story with an ever increasing tension, made it an entirely satisfactory read. The transformation of Lucien Bernard was well developed and humanly realistic. Having never lived under such circumstances, I can only hope that I would be that brave and heroic. Looking forward to talking about this book at book club next week.
I loved this original, fresh take on World War II. It tells of an architect who, despite his best attempts to remain univolved, finds himself using his unique talents to build structures that can hide Jews from the Germans. Highly recommend!
The Paris Architect by Charles Belfoure is a fast moving book, that captures your attention.
What he is doing is very, very dangerous and there is one German who is determined to capture this man who tricks and deceives the GermansLucien Bernard is an architect who is struggling, but then so many people are in Paris during the Nazi occupation.
Lucien begins to do this for the money, then he begins to do this for the challenge of being clever, and then because he knows they are people.The Paris Architect is very powerful in its portrayal of a city and population under occupation.
It was recommended to people who like Ken Follett but enjoy reading about the WWII era.
When I excitedly asked if I could take one of the copies, the woman said, "Don't start it at 10pm like I did!" She was right.
The descriptions of the Gestapo torturing people for information made me squirm, and as with everything I've read and listened to about this time in history, I found myself once again flabbergasted that any of this really happened.Historical fiction at its finest.
