https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18369560-tales-of-lonely-trails
This book will not be for everyone, it's not a quick read and is not meant for cheap entertainment; it has a calming effect on the reader who enjoys an author that takes pains to describe the sight before his eyes down to the most minuscule of details.Grey has a talent for transporting the reader to a place and time where you could be surrounded by nature, feel small in the presence of such daunting beauty and ruggedness.
If you don't have the time or resources to trek out to the middle of the wilderness, just pick up this book and your mind will be fooled into thinking you've been dropped into the middle of a Hudson river valley painting.
Zane Grey remains a favorite because of his remarkable skills for recognizing and describing the most minute details of nature.
While I love and appreciate nature, my level of appreciation does not reach as deep as his, so I needed almost as much time to read this biography of two hunting trips in Northern Arizona and one trek across Death Valley as he needed for those trips.
I would love to have met this man and spent some time with him but reading this book falls short of the enjoyable experience I have come to expect of his more popular western adventures.
Review of "Tales of lonely trails" by John LietzkeI didn't care for this book because I do not care to read about the exploits of the author. I only read a little more half of the book because I got bored(not my cup of tea). The book reads like a diary or journal made into sentences.
At first sight Grey called it 'the one great natural phenomenon, the one grand spectacle which I had ever seen that did not at first give vague disappointment, a confounding of reality, a disenchantment of contrast with what the mind had conceived.'For the next trail Grey takes us trout fishing at ten thousand feet amongst the spruce-lined lakes of the Rocky Mountains, the wind soughing through the pines, cactus, juniper, manzanita and - yes - purple sage.I had read about Grey's adventures hunting mountain lions with Buffalo Jones before in his book about him, The Last of the Plainsmen.
I have not read a lot of Zane Grey, but this non fiction work affords insights into the author of the popular western fiction of a century ago.
He was clearly a man who loved the rugged outdoors.
The descriptions of parts of Utah, Colorado, Arizona and Death Valley in California are detailed to the degree one can picture being in these places where he hunted and fished.
I am no particular fan of hunting, but after reading about the author's descriptions of his expeditions helped me to understand the draw the activity has for some.
I have mixed feelings about this book. I am a fan of Grey's adventure novels, and I like this one for the descriptions of the geographical and geological features of the west. However a good bit of this book is about sport hunting of mountain lions, bears, and any other non-human creatures that crossed their paths. The narrative at points made me cheer for the animals, and made me grateful that Grey wasn't a better marksman.
Zane Grey is by far my favorite author of westerns. Perhaps that's because his writings have been instrumental in furthering my love for Arizona.Most of his books are fiction. This one is based upon actual experience.This book focuses mostly on mountain lion hunting. Although the hunt is very exciting, it leaves you feeling sorry for the animals, which is what the author seems to be trying to do.
It was O.K., but Zane Grey attempted to describe everything in such detail that it just kept going and going and was overkill.
