https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32750.Brown_Girl_Brownstones
It is a coming of age novel and revolves around Selina Boyce and her mother Silla; two wonderfully created characters who are the most memorable parts of the novel.
He wants to return to Barbados, but Silla has her heart set on staying and buying a brownstone.
I will leave the last word to Marshall, writing about the way in which women figure prominently in her writing:“I’m concerned about letting them speak their piece, letting them be central figures, actors, activists in fiction rather than just backdrop or background figures.
I want them to be central characters.
I wanted women to be the centers of power.
Like Selina, the protagonist, Marshall was American born to recent Barbadian immigrants who grew up in Brooklyn’s brownstones.
She would have been close in age to Selina during the 40s and intimately known the community she portrays in this book.
- The description, dialect, and depth of conversation had a theatrical or dramatic style that brought the story to life and made me picture the story on a stage.
Even within the Association the difference of opinion was near-devestating.- Lastly, no discussion of this book would be complete without mention of the roles of Selina’s father, mother, and Selina herself.
His mother wanted the American dream.
I read this book many, many years ago - back in Junior High School as a matter of fact.
I believe it was the first book that I had ever read by a black woman writer; and Selina's story sounded very familiar to me - despite the fact that my parents had come up to the north from the south.
I think that after I read this book, I had a completely different approach to writing and story-telling: one's story is one's story no matter how it is told, and every story is the human story no matter who you are.
A good book for high school girls and boys to read today.
I remember the year exactly because Professor Elaine Hansen gave me and Lisa, one of my dearest friends ever, an A for our writing and presentation on this one.
I'm a sucker for female coming of age novels. This is probably because I was not a female when I came of age. This is Virginia Woolf with slightly less stylistic prowess and a plot worth fighting for and a lead who, if asked, you would contemplate drowning yourself for. There's something about the wavering would-be artist realizing that she needs to be a person first and foremost that, to my mind, is something to root for.
This book gave me the words to explain the problem of race in our country.But having said all that, this is not a book about "issues." It's a story, and a beautifully rendered one at that.
If you are interested in issues of race, read this book.
If you are interested in an arresting story, read this book.
It is a difficult story to carry, but it is one that we are afraid to tell in this country, and, especially for white readers, one that we don't necessarily want to hear.
But hear it we ought to, especially in these post-Trayvon Martin-verdict times of anguish and helplessness.
Brown Girl, Brownstones shows us how people are shaped by generations worth of circumstance, a pretty amazing feat considering the novel charts the protagonist's coming of age - of a sort of realization - that takes place from 1939 till about the mid 1940s, I'd say.
How those white people does do yuh?"These words, uttered by Selena's mother Silla towards the end of the novel, just about broke my heart.
The focus is largely on Selina and her relationship with her mother Silla, her father Boyce, her sister Ina, and to a lesser extent, the friends, companions, and later lover that she takes towards the end of the novel.
Marshall digs deep into her own past as the daughter of immigrants, shining a light at the same time on the experience of being defined first by your dark skin.What really grabbed me in this novel were the characters and the complicated and ambivalent family and community relationships they inhabit.
At the same time, whites are not all evil; blacks are not all good."It's a terrible thing to know that you gon be poor all yuh life, no matter how hard you work.
Six Word Review: Unsung hero of the black canon.
I know many will consider this blasphemous, but I loved Brown Girl, Brownstones much more than A Tree Grows In Brooklyn, probably because I identified with Selina's plight and her experiences as the daughter of immigrant parents much more than I ever could (or did) with Francie in A Tree Grows In Brooklyn.
So much of Selina's experiences rang true, and by the end I felt like I had gotten to know the innerworkings of a character that in spite of all the hurt, hardships and growing pains she'd experienced, had truly come into her own.
I think I actually fell asleep on the train ride home at one point, while trying to read the start, heh.Then something happened, and all of a sudden the story, its characters, and everything else just...
Overall, I found it to be a rather enjoyable read, and the character development was wonderfully/convincingly executed.
I hated "the mother," felt myself pitying the mother, and then feeling a sort of satisfaction as mother and daughter came to an understanding by the end of the book.This isn't going to be some entertaining read, and probably not what many would find an enjoyable time killer.
Beautifully written but totally accessible and easy to read.
Yeah, she kinda' does something backhanded to her husband, but her husband is totally irresponsible!
Yes, she is a little harsh to her children, but she works difficult, manual labor to support her whole family!
Yes, she pushes a lifestyle on her daughters that they might not want, but she is trying to give them a good life.
So I had a hard time really relating to Selina's feelings on her mother, which is a huge part of the story.
See more of my book reviews on my blog, Literary FlitsI loved this novel of a Bajan family struggling to make good for themselves in 1950s Brooklyn, New York.
The immigrant experience is a frequent theme in literature, but I think novels seldom evoke their culture and the clash of inter-generational ideas as well as Paule Marshall does in Brown Girl, Brownstones.
Selina's wilful rejection of Silla's choices is brilliantly portrayed, especially as the daughter is basically repeating the actions of the mother at that age, yet neither can see the repeating pattern.Brown Girl, Brownstones takes place over a number of years and I appreciated how we see characters develop and mature.
The story reflects the author's own experiences as a second generation American born girl whose parents immigrated from Barbados.
Marshall's vivid prose gives voice to all sorts of Bajan women, and one African American woman.
From the text we gather that there may be superficial differences between Bajan women and African American women but their struggles and hopes are the same in "this man's country." Marshall gives voice to what womanists and black feminists would label double oppression.Through her characters both women and men, Marshall explores the deep meaning of race in America.
Not long after I began reading this book, I wondered why in the world I hadn't read it sooner and why I knew nothing about it when I was a teenager.
This is THAT book.
I give it 5 enthusiastic stars, but do remember that it takes place during the World War II years so not all of the language is...culturally sensitive.
*Warning: I adore Edwidge Danticat, who penned the forward to BROWN GIRL, BROWNSTONES (in the edition I read anyway), but I strongly suggest not reading her forward until you've finished reading the book.
I think I loved this book in another reality.
I think I really loved it.
The time period and culture presented were great.
There were a dozen times or better I read a paragraph and thought, "I should write this down".
I think I figured it out.Unlike sci-fi or fantasy fiction (my favored types of books), this is not a fictional book to escape from this world.
Granted it is a different time period, but it is still "here", and it is a very real feeling book.
I did not finish the book.
But, I want to read it again in the future.
This novel was suggested by the Feminist Press for black history month and after reading it, I wish I had come across it sooner.
Marshall's novel is a beautiful rendition of the nuances of the immigrant struggle within the Barbadian community opening under the backdrop of World War II and white flight from urban centers.
Marshall tells the story of a young Selina, who is born to parents from Barbados and like Betty Smith's, Francine Nolan of A Tree Grows in Brooklyn Selina idolizes her father despite his petulance and failure to provide for them.
Similarly, the mothers endure back-breaking work to provide for their families and in the end triumph.
Wow! This is a great book. I have had it for a while and just got around to reading it. The story has a lot to recommend it. Barbardian immigrants in New York. Family relationships, specifically mother/daughter. Told from the point of view of a female of color written in 1959, pre-cursor to Alice Walker, etc. Also, the style of writing is wonderful. Lyrical, descriptive, vernacular. I enjoyed this book.
The book was too dense. I only got a few pages in to it and realized that it wasn't for me though I can see the value, especially reading the summary that the author Paule Marshall is really writing about her coming-of-age story through the Depression and WWII living in Brooklyn and the relationship between African American and West Indians.
What a wonderful book. I could not put it down. All the characters were so relatable and interesting, it was not just about Selina and her coming of age. It was far deeper!
A fantastic female coming-of-age story. All the tension between mothers and daughters and girls with their girl friends is there, along with rich portrayals of Barbados American immigrant life.
Another take A Tree Grows in Brooklyn, set during the Second World War not the first, Bedford-Stuyvesant, not Williamsburg. Haunting.
phenomenal girl coming of age novel #sixwordreview
Love it. It's Paula Marshall--nuff said. For those who don't know, she's in the same category as the can't-go-wrong-in-my-book Danticat.
thought provoking..
It is the coming of age story of Selina, the first generation American daughter of Silla and Deighton Boyce, immigrants from Barbados, Bajans.
However it is the women in her life who spur Selina to independence even as they try to shelter her from the struggles they have endured.Marshall skillfully delineates not just the economic challenges immigrants face in finding a place in the new country they came to find opportunity denied them back home , but, perhaps more significantly, the impact of this cultural disruption on their sense of their identity.

I read this a long time ago, just entering it now. I should go back and re-read it, because it is so relevant to the times we are now living through. Beautifully written story of a young black girl struggling to grow up in the inner city.
Brown Girl, Brownstones is a coming of age novel surrounding Selina Boyce, a first generation child of Barbadian immigrants.
As she grows up, she experiences tragedy, loss, feeling lonely, racism, a sexual awakening, and this fear of "what's next"--which a lot of us can relate to.I love that there's this connection between her and her mother throughout the novel that she doesn't really understand until the end.
Paule Marshall's writing style always dropped me into the story, as if I was part of this world.
This is a classic in so many ways and a story I think everyone should read.
The problems I have with it are its slow pace and the protagonist, Selina, whose strong personality occasionally borders on cruelty toward her friends and family.
Selina struggles to fit in as an American.
He rejects American ways and wants to return to Barbados.It wasn't until the end of the book that I found myself moved by Selina's dilemma, after she experiences a racist encounter with the mother of a white friend who says, "...you don't even act colored.
I was able to empathize with Selina's feelings of rejection and dejection.This book was published in 1959 but is just as relevant to today's society.
