https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/136096.If_Not_Now_When_
He was a lucky boy, but then he wasn't, how can one truly escape what went before, the unimaginable horror, Auschwitz.A work of fiction, but based on real events, Primo Levi with dignity and passion, traces the journey of a group of partisan survivors who in the latter stages of World War Two make their way from the snow covered ground of Russia, through Germany then Italy, hoping to reach Palestine.
La guerra sarebbe durata sempre; la morte, la caccia, la fuga non sarebbero finite mai, mai la neve avrebbe cessato di cadere, mai sarebbe venuto giorno.Il primo vero romanzo di Primo Levi, romanzo-epopea dell'ebraismo orientale, la storia di un gruppo di partigiani ebrei ashkenaziti (russi, polacchi, ucraini) in viaggio dalla Russia bianca alla Palestina, passando per il Brennero e per Milano.
Non cerchiamo la salvezza, nemmeno nella sua allegra vendetta: gli ebrei combattono i nazisti, fuggono dal fronte di guerra, muoiono e si feriscono, danno alla luce un bambino in una terra liberata.
Qualità uscite intatte dall’esperienza del lager, benché - lo si avverte bene in alcuni suoi scritti - qualcosa dentro di lui si sia definitivamente incrinato.In questo romanzo ho trovato ancora dell’altro: ci ho trovato - inaspettatamente - un’intensa vitalità, un’energia disperata, ma viva, rigogliosa, una voglia di lottare che rivendica con piena dignità il suo diritto alla vita e alla felicità.È questa la storia di un gruppo di partigiani ebrei russi e polacchi e delle loro imprese, traversie e peregrinazioni in giro per l’Europa alla fine della seconda guerra mondiale.
La scelta di raccontare l'orrore della seconda guerra mondiale senza ambientare pressoché nulla nei campi di sterminio, non sminuisce affatto il valore dell'opera, non c'è alcun senso di incompletezza come si potrebbe temere in un primo momento, e non c'è nemmeno quell'atmosfera di fiaba come invece si trova in "L'Educazione europea" di Romain Gary e che sotto un certo punto di vista può risultare fuori luogo se si parla di Resistenza.
A piece of brilliant writing by Primo Levi, and probably one of the best optimistic war novels ever written.
Not that I have read the original in Italian, but the English translation itself is able to convey a lot of its essence, and the reader never feels that it has been translated.The book is a fictionalized reconstruction based upon sources of research and discussions by the author after WWII.
It chronicles the adventures, crises and moral struggles of the group: fiction, yet grounded in fact.One of the best parts of the book, is that the style seems very informal, especially regarding the dialogues.
Credo che Levi abbia voluto far conoscere a un pubblico più vasto di quello dei libri di storia del XX secolo quello che hanno vissuto gli ebrei nell'Europa orientale negli ultimi secoli.
E' riportata a un certo punto una canzone che dice, fra l'altro:“Siamo le pecore del ghetto,Tosate per mille anni, rassegnate all'offesa.Siamo i sarti, i copisti ed i cantori Appassiti nell'ombra della Croce.Ora abbiamo imparato i sentieri della foresta, Abbiamo imparato a sparare, e colpiamo diritto.Fratelli, via dall'Europa delle tombe:Saliamo insieme verso la terraDove saremo uomini fra gli altri uomini.Se non sono io per me, chi sarà per me?Se non cosi, come?
There is strong emphasis on the internal strength of each character and the effect of this strength on the actions of the person and on his chances to survive and contribute to the cause of the group.The later part of the book describes the journey the group took, at the end of the war, through Poland and Germany until they arrived in Italy on their way to Palestine.During this journey they meet the refugees of the camps and the author emphasizes the clear mental difference between the Jews that lived through fighting and between the Jews who were released from the concentration camps.
While most of the partisans were strong in heart and ready to continue in life on whatever path they choose, the Jews that were released from the camps were mostly mentally broken and many committed suicide.
Le vicende storiche portano il gruppo su una rotta che va dalla Russia asiatica spossata dalla lunga guerra difensiva all’odiata Germania che alfine crolla: con epilogo in Italia, alla ricerca di un porto e di una nave che permetta di realizzare il sogno della Terra Promessa.Un bel romanzo, in gran parte frutto d’invenzione, peraltro molto credibile: Levi narra eventi che chiaramente potrebbero averlo sfiorato, prima quale internato in campo di concentramento e poi quale fuggitivo diretto faticosamente verso casa.
Le emozioni dello scrittore dovevano essere dunque forti: anche più di quelle del lettore, che arrivano in parte smorzate da una narrazione molto descrittiva, soprattutto impegnata a trasmettere gli elementi realistici più utili alla causa della documentazione storica.
And if not now, when?"This line is said by Gedale, one of the main characters of the novel towards the end of the book, but its meaning is wider.While reading many good and dramatic accounts from the Shoah there's a question that often comes to mind and mouth:"Why did all these Jewish people let themselves being humiliated, robbed, prisoned and killed by Nazis and anti-semites without trying to resist?"After all, most of the times, they had numbers on their side."Maybe - we may answer to ourselves - it has very much to do with their own religion, with fatalism, with the confident acceptation of the will of God. They were caught by surprise - we may also say - they could not believe to what was going on around them.
This was in many ways a breath of fresh air in Holocaust literature; reflective of the horrors yet focusing more on WWII itself and all the other things that were happening to the Jews outside of the camps.
In a way, it was a period that I already knew a lot about from previous literature, but delivered in a different way, focusing on a different perspective.
It was also surprisingly balanced for a book by a Holocaust survivor; Levi didn't sink too deeply into despair, or condemn everything for the rest of time for what happened.
Having joined the Soviet army and become detached from it behind the German lines, he is wandering through the countryside, fighting his own war to survive.
Slowly this changing band makes its way west, coming up against other groups friendly or not, losing some lives and saving others, undermining the German army where possible, but mostly staying out of its way.I knew this was a Holocaust story but it wasn’t what I expected.
It didn’t focus on the concentration camps or ghettos, nor on Primo Levi’s native Italy, but on the devastated landscape of Eastern Europe in the confused final years of the war.
An awe-inspiring story.
"If I'm not for myself, who will be for me?If not this way, how? And if not now, when?" This is an amazing book, detailing the experiences and journey of a group of Jewish Partisans fighting behind the German Lines on the Russian Front. The book, written by Primo Levi, a Jewish concentration camp survivor, despite being a fictional work, is based around historical fact and that there were small groups or bands of Jewish Partisans who did disrupt the Nazis behind their lines, who worked independ
The book, written by Primo Levi, a Jewish concentration camp survivor, despite being a fictional work, is based around historical fact and that there were small groups or bands of Jewish Partisans who did disrupt the Nazis behind their lines, who worked independently from the Red Army.
It is much more than a war book about Partisans however, the character development of the members of the group is descriptive and telling, and with the books main protagonist, Mendel (a Jewish Watchmender who ended up in the Red Army), we get to experience his disillusionment with his own religion, his loss of his family, his own crises of doubt about life and the friendships he strikes up with some of the Women members of his Partisan group and so on.
Primo Levi is such an amazing writer. He has the ability to say so very much with so little in a way that is still intensely satisfying. While I didn't enjoy this book as much as Survival in Auschwitz, it was still an immensely satisfying read. However, if you have never read any Primo Levi, I would recommend starting with his nonfiction. Any of it.
What I learned from this book: the meaning of Israel."For the Russians, a longing for home was not an unreasonable hope, even probable: a yearning to go back, a call.
For the Jews, the regret for their houses was not a hope but a despair, buried till then under more urgent and serious sorrows, but latent always.
For what house, what country, what future?"Despair is what drives Levi's partisans to fight.
And as they fight, they move gradually south, towards Italy and that mythical place called Palestine, that place where Jews can finally be free of persecution.The tragedy is that thanks to hindsight, we know what happened to Israel and Palestine.
"Contro la disperazione ci sono solo due difese, lavorare e combattere, ma non sempre bastano. Ce n’è anche una terza, che è di raccontarci delle bugie uno con l’altro: ci caschiamo tutti." (p. 50)
Questo romanzo deve essere uno spunto di riflessione in quanto non si parla mai dei partigiani dell'est, non si parla mai delle battaglie e della resistenza in territorio polacco o sovietico.
Ho trovato il libro interessante, certo, nulla a che vedere con "Se questo è un uomo" anche perchè anche se basato su storie vere questo rimane pur sempre un romanzo, ma può essere un valido punto di partenza per capire di più il significato di lottare per un sogno e non solo per sconfiggere un nemico.
The originof the title of the novel perhaps best illustrates the human tragedy memorialised by Levi's work - it is the last line of a song composed by a fallen Jewish partisan comrade, given one last task by his sadistic executioner of producing one final piece of music as his epitaph, but the lyrics of which call on his people to rise up and resist the aggressor.
If Not Now, When offers a realistic fictional account of Jewish partisans operating in eastern Europe during World War Two. The author, Primo Levi, was a death camp survivor who actually met and interviewed the real people on whose lives the book is based.That said, Levi also wrote a compelling story which engages the reader's heart as well as mind.
Think, Doctor Zhivago meets All Quiet on the Western Front quality, though that over simplifies Levi's accomplishment.As World War Two fades into the fog of history, those living tend to forget was it was really like.
If Not Now, When offers an antidote.
No war book has managed to distill such beauty from it, and frame it with such great writing. It reads like Catch-22 without the pessimism and some semblance of coherency - the book grabs you by the hair and marches you through the quintessential adventure story, and shoots you in the belly every time you forget the horrors of war.
Sono pagine e pagine di continui episodi e avventure, scritte in modo lieve e accattivante dove la lettura non può che risultare coinvolgente. Il libro è un continuo spunto da fatti reale, da una banda di partigiani russi e polacchi che combatterono nelle retrovie contro i nazisti, precedendo sempre l’avanzata dell’esercito sovietico. Al riguardo Levi precisa di aver tratto ispirazione nella creazione della vicenda e dei protagonisti da alcuni giovani ebrei sionisti, animati dal desiderio di andare in Palestina, aggregatisi al convoglio ferroviario predisposto dai russi che lo aveva riportato in Italia.
A really remarkable novel, that I put in a class with "The Unknown Soldiers" by Finnish writer Vaino Linna, because it tells about soldiers in a theatre of World War 2 that is known to very few of us. So well-told that I'm tempted to rate it five stars. I look forward to reading Levi's "Survival in Auschwitz" (nonfiction) though I can only handle 2 or 3 war-story books a year, and this is my fourth this year ;).
(The token Christian, on the other hand, is thrilled to follow the group on their long journey.) Though there are a lot of hints as to future developments in the Soviet Union and the Soviet takeover of Poland, there are no hints about the way Zionism will develop, and the characters are last seen in Italy, celebrating the end of the war and the birth of a child.Though it’s not an especially character-driven piece (major developments in Mendel’s psyche are abruptly revealed rather than shown from inside), all the characters are distinctive, with my favorites being the above-mentioned Dov and the fierce and cold Line, an independent young woman who fights alongside the men and becomes Mendel’s lover for a time without ever “belonging” to anyone.The narrative is episodic, but each of the episodes is exquisitely well-placed.
It recounts a fascinating story of the life of Russian and Polish Jewish partisans during the Second World War. These are men and women who found themselves behind the front lines in a sort of no man's land and did their part to fight the Nazi's by use of trickery and sabotage.
However about a third of the way in, it felt like Levi sort of gave up on the characters and it turned more to a description of disjointed action scenes.
I'd like to check out one of his earlier non-fiction books about occupation and concentration camps.
Rather an unusual book I think as it deals with the events of the Holocaust by focusing on a group of Jewish partisans fighting back with limited weapons but plenty of spirit.
They know their very existence is a miracle, they know they are standing mounds of fellow Jewish corpses, but they live in the now and take each day as it comes.They aren't heroes, although there are many acts of heroism throughout the book.
This book is 'real' and while not being a delight to read it was interesting and less upsetting than it could have been.3 1/2 stars
I have read only one other book written by Primo Levi: If This is A Man. That was when I was about 15 or 16 and I thought it outstanding.
Ever since I’ve meant to read his other works but for some reason or another didn’t round to it.
Why have I wasted so much time?
Never before have I read a book and felt the need to have post-it notes constantly at the ready.
There are so many lines, phrases, brilliant insights.
A superb read.

Extraordinary book. Given the countless books about WW2 I've read, this stood out for me, given it's different viewpoint on the events that lead up to the end of the war. Based on real events and real people interviewed by the author, a story about Russian, German, Polish and Ukranian Jewish partisans crossing Eastern Europe, their struggles, decisions and survival through adversity.
Not the sort of book I would usually choose - I feel very ignorant about the background (Russian, Polish and Jewish partisans trying to survive in the 2nd World War) but it's very readable because the main character is so human and believable.
Primo Levi rarely disappoints. This novel is no exception.A realistic tale of resistance against the Nazis. I read it long ago, but one or two scenes still remain etched in my memory.
Dos melhores autores a ler sobre a temática da II grande guerra
