https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41667.My_Side_of_the_Mountain
People, this book was written in the late 50s, and things were a bit different back then.
Yes, there are many unbelievable parts, but it is a children's fiction book, not a survival guide.
This charming story brings me back to my youth and reading other George books.
perhaps it should not be forced on kids to read in school, but classics that won awards are always fair game.
If you don't like them, write a new story that will get awards.
Keep when it was written in context, and you should enjoy the day to day life of surviving on a mountain.
on the other side of the hatchet/island of the blue dolphins spectrum is this book.
its exciting to learn about the ways people can compensate for the privations this kind of living imposes, but knowing he can, say, go to the library any time he wants to kind of undermines any tension this book could have.
its a fun read, and has several useful facts and things to remember like proper ventilation when you are living in a tree trunk, and i can see how little boys would totally dig it.
Hey Folks! This one's for kids. You were expecting Muir?
I know Jean wanted to make it possible for Sam to be able to live in the woods for a year, but let's face it, what parent or parents are going to let their kid run away and not try and find them.
It's too bad she couldn't have made the character a girl back in the 50s, but I think she was afraid girls wouldn't want to read that, or boys either.I could set all these thought down and I really was engrossed in this little story of surviving in the woods on your wits.
My Side of the Mountain, written by Jean Craighead George in 1959, is a survivalist story about a boy who runs away from home to live in the Catskill Mountains, and he not only survives but thrives in the wilderness.
The story begins with Sam Gribley already in the mountains preparing his humble tree abode for the first snowstorm.
I had only seen the Catskills in pictures at that point, but Jean Craighead George’s sweeping descriptions breathed life into those mountains.
The sky and trees and streams and even the grass came to life right before my eyes, and everything about the wilderness was just so beautiful, so full of color and life.Review at https://covers2covers.wordpress.com/2...
But I never found that magical friend, that spirit, that strange and mystical adventure.
Hell, I never even found anyone interesting to talk to.The sad thing is that I still search, still look and hope, and every time two lifelong friends meet by chance at a brook, I feel betrayed.
The fantasy of art has, even in its most minute dimensions, been betrayed by sallow mundanity.So it seems again I fall to the doom of loving and hating books.
Loving the world they represent, but hate failing to find it.
i really enjoyed this book. this young boy goes out on his own and uses his skill to survive. what i really liked is the fact that he WANTED to, where as, most books, he would have been lost, or forgotten. and if you liked this,you should read "hatchet"
I read this book several times in elementary school.
I lived and died on the advice of the school's librarian, and she had convinced me to read every Newberry award winner in the library.
I felt like I was reading something important every time I did.
That's not the aspect of the book that most drew me, but what a great a way to start the story.
I doubt I had many survival skills under my belt when I read the book, but heaven knows I wished I did.
I was fascinated with the detailed accounts of traps and living in a tree, becoming a falconer and eating wild plants.
It is a completely unrealistic fantasy about a young boy who runs away to the ancestral land in the Catskills mountains and who proceeds to learn how to live off the land for a whole year.First let’s point out the obviously unreasonable plot points—a young boy runs away from a large New York family and no one comes after him.
I loved the idea of living in a tree, of having a falcon as a companion, learning to live with friendly racoons and weasels.
I don’t think I ever thought of it as a “how to” guide, I recognized the fantasy aspect.
(And I think that most children do recognize the fantastic elements of things, whether adults give them credit for it or not).
I thought it was so completely unrealistic.The book is about a boy who runs away from home and decides to live in the woods on his own.
The difference between those two is that in Hatchet the boy is forced to live and survive in the wilderness because of a plane crash.
In this book however the boy decides to live and survive in the wilderness.
People know that there is a boy living in the woods but nobody cares about it.
If he is 17 I could understand that other people wouldn't care so much about him living alone in the woods.
Ughhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh.........Why do they make so many survival stories for children, and then force us to read them in school?There are so many other wonderful genres that are not about overcoming the elements and proving to yourself that you can accomplish anything.I would argue that the same message can be found in a lot of literature that doesn't require me to read about how some kid survived in the woods for X amount of years/months/whatever.I can't even remember the particular details of this novel, but I'm positive I read it.
Jerrit Schramm2-2-098-1My Side of the Mountain The story “My Side of the Mountain” is, of the most part, one of those classic stories about wilderness survival. The main character, Sam Gribley is your average teenage boy who has big dreams and a wild imagination.The story starts out when a teenage boy living in New York City isn’t very happy about living in the city. He had a plan to run away to the Catskill Mountains but it never really got off the ground. But after a day gone badly, he decides
The main character, Sam Gribley is your average teenage boy who has big dreams and a wild imagination.The story starts out when a teenage boy living in New York City isn’t very happy about living in the city.
After arriving in the mountains, he finds that it is way different and more difficult than he imagined.
Even though he has a large shelter made out of a dead oak, its still way more difficult to survive, that Is until deer season comes along.
When it all comes down to it, this story is perfect for those who love suspense in a survival reality book.
I am certainly not an outdoorsy person, but I loved this book so much!
The writing is charming, Sam's character is full of pluck and resourcefulness, and I was completely involved in every little woodsy adventure.The author is a master at bringing an emotion to the forefront of the story with just a few simple words, and making the reader care desperately what happens next.
The best parts were when Sam interacted with other humans.
I love how Sam makes his own society though, with the creatures of the forest.
I loved this book from start to finish!
Wow. Impressive. The knowledge of living off the land from nothing that went into this book is astounding. As a child, I always wanted to live in nature. I would never have survived like Sam. But, it's a great dream. I wished I had read this book as a child.
Read this so long ago I can't really remember everything. I think I liked it! :)
This book struck me as being like a dramatization of the Boy Scout Manual.
(Not that I ever read the Boy Scout Manual--I washed out after the first year of Cub Scouts.) It's the tale of young Sam Gribley, a New York City lad who runs away to his ancestral lands in the Catskill Mountains and starts to live off the land.
Sam is extremely capable for a city boy and manages to get just the right breaks to enable him to survive to the end of the book.
That ending is rather disappointing.
This book is designed for kids in mind, and with that audience, this is definitely a solid book perfectly suited to a young reader's tastes, abilities and expectations.My son is an avid reader and I picked up this book after he was finished as I like to know what types of books he is reading and enjoys.
Well, I got sucked in and found myself a third of the way through in no time.Appealing to a sense of adventure lost amongst today's electronics savvy kids, this book might even spark a little interest in nature.
Providing the adventure and tickling the imagination from our comfy reading chairs.
My 9-year-old son and I read this book together and now we are writing a review.
He thought the book was really good, and so did I.
"It was pretty cool how he got a falcon," my son says.
It's exciting and fascinating to read the adventures of feisty, live-off-the-land Sam Gribley, who fulfills his boyhood dream of running away from his crowded New York City family life.
We give this book between four and five stars, though there's no button for that.
It was first published in 1959 but is a book that is as readable today as it was over 50 years ago.
I did enjoy this book. It was a quick read. Right now my students are reading action/adventure/western literature. I joined in. With the exception of the transcendentalists, wilderness/mountain books are not my favorite. I did like some of the descriptions, but the book just seemed so improbable. Maybe I am subconsciously jealous of Sam: I always wanted to run away, but always came home for dinner.
Just like Sam Gribley I would sit outside my tree and grind acorns into flour between two stones, but after one attempt at eating them, I didn't try again, although apparently there are ways to leach the bitterness out.Although I accepted everything about the premise uncritically (why shouldn't it be easy, and even pleasant to spend a winter living in a hollow tree in the mountains, if the author assures me it is?), I do remember feeling annoyed at the ending, which, young though I was, I perceived as sexist.
A must read for young boys.
In hindsight, those memories are so much more meaningful than any hours spent wasted in front of a screen watching TV or playing video games.
Naturally, I would never encourage a child to run away from home (and would never have waited all winter to go looking for them), but overall I think My Side of the Mountain is a compelling story that helps to teach resourcefulness and self-confidence.
In an age when the average American child spends 4-7 minutes a day in unstructured play outdoors, and over 7 hours a day in front of a screen, this book is a must read.
Highly recommended for families with young boys.
My Side of the Mountain is about a boy named Sam Gribley who ran away from his home because he thought that he was kind of left out with his 8 other brothers and sisters.
When Sam told his dad that he was going to find the Gribley farm his dad thought he would not even be able to find the land.
Sam meets many people as he is surviving out in the wild.
The author tells you how Sam tries to survive in the wild alone and how and what he does to do that.
I decided to read it again to refresh my memory of this story.
It is an amazing story about a young boy who runs away and makes a life on a mountain.
It is impressive how smart he is and is able to use natural resources from the land to survive.
I cannot believe that people used to live that way.
However, it was never at his extreme level of wilderness living.
It makes you appreciate what you have and the beauty of nature.
Everyone should read this story if you have not already.
1. When Sam held frightful and he listens to her little heartbeat.
I like that passage because its meaningful and was special.
I also like the description.
Why did Sam runaway in the first place?
2. Why did Sam live in a tree and not a cave?
3. This book is about survival and another book I have read was warriors and that is about living out in the wild too.
4. it was amazing with the details and drawings .I liked this book because it was a survival book and I adore survival books.
I didn't care for this book that much at all! I wasn't paying attention at some of the parts because I got bored of it really easily. It seemed weird that he was lost in the woods but there was an old women picking strawberries right near him. I also didn't like the ending and how his parents told him what was going to happen and he couldn't do anything about it. Overall I didn't like this book and I probably wont read the second one.
A classic of young-adult literature, this is a tale of self-reliance and wilderness survival that is almost unfathomable today: Sam, a 12-year old New York City boy living in a small apartment with many siblings, decides to run away and live in the Catskills.
By modern standards, Sam's dad was highly irresponsible, but in the context of the era in which the book was set, he understands that Sam will run away with or without his permission, and simply asks him to inform the townspeople that he'll be living in the woods near his grandfather's abandoned farm.
How I managed to miss this book as a child is beyond me, but I am oh-so-glad I have discovered it now.
As a nature enthusiast, I found so much delight in Sam's story.
I loved Sam's journey into the wilderness, as well as his awe & appreciation for even the smallest & simplest things in nature.
My dad tells many tales of him & my uncle building their own cabin in the woods & being gone for days at a time.
This is an excellent book, and it's one I'm glad I read.
I still remember the day I walked into the living room and saw my reluctant reader curled up in the big chair devouring this book.
The only requirement was they had to sit down and read at least four pages before choosing or rejecting a book.
His Dad was tickled to see him bring it home and Grandson started reading it during his required 30 minutes a day.
This from a boy who never chooses to read if it's not required.
And it's the perfect book for reading in a hammock under a tree on a warm summer day, as my Grandson will attest.
I read this all the way through in one sitting.
I realize that it's only about 165 pages or so, but that's still not something I do quite often.As a woman who's spent quite a bit of time outside and isn't afraid of the outdoors, I found this to be a very interesting read.
I have friends who 'live off the land,' without running water, without electricity, without plumbing, but this beats all that in a way that I've never actually seen in real life.
This is a fun story about a boy who runs away from New York City to live in the woods. He builds a bed in a hollowed-out tree trunk, he fishes, he hunts and he makes friends with a falcon. I'm a sucker for books that feature junior housekeepers (such as The Boxcar Children, Dandelion Cottage and The Children Who Lived in a Barn), and part of their charm is the fantasy that adults would allow kids that much freedom. But the children always triumph. Hooray for spunk!
