https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4800.Once_There_Was_a_War
Once There Was a War, John Steinbeck IIIتاریخ نخستین خوانش: دوم اکتبر سال 1991 میلادیعنوان: روزگاری جنگی درگرفت؛ نوشته جان اشتاین (استاین) بک؛ مترجم: محمدرضا پورجعفری، مشخصات نشر: تهران، نقره، 1369، در 300 ص؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، علم، 1382؛ شابک: 9644053222، در 230 ص؛ موضوع: جنگ جهانگیر دوم - 1939 تا 1945 میلادی - قرن 20 مداستان با توصیف آغاز میشود. تصویرهای زیبایی دارد که در ذهن خوانشگر مینشیند. از سرگرمی سربازان درون کشتی نیز سخن به میان آمده، در کتاب اشاره شده که درون کشتی، کتابخانه کوچکی ست که سربازان از آن سود میبرند. ا. شربیانی
Steinbeck then spent time trying to get himself appointed as a war correspondent.
In any event, Steinbeck obtained clearance to work as a war correspondent and travelled to England on a troop ship in June 1943.
When, however, they found that I was not duplicating their work, was not reporting straight news, they were very kind to me and went out of their way to help me and to instruct me in the things I didn't know.Some of Steinbeck's dispatches are quirky observations, some are very funny, some are intensely moving.
A book of stories John Steinbeck filed while working as a war correspondent during WWII. Even though they're non-fiction, there's a Steinbeckian ring of storytelling here that reads much like his fiction. Style can be a difficult thing to get away from. But then again, perhaps he didn't want to. After all, these weren't meant to be straightforward reports on battles and troop movements. These stories tell a more human side to the war. Steinbeck did what he did best. He created larger-than-life characters out of real people.
This was a great look at World War 2, not the usual battles and politicians and generals but a look at the war from the eye level of the troops by a superb writer.
I'd seen the movie that was playing comfortably at home and not under bombing, a section on Bob Hope was easily the most patriotic.
A few funny pieces "Germans fight for world domination and the English for the defense of England, the Americans fight for souvenirs." and a version of Santa that delivers Scotch to a thirsty press corp.
II. Dünya Savaşı’nda cephe gerisinde, sevkiyatlarda, kışlalarda, tehlikenin olmadığı yerlerde yaşananları anlatıyor. Savaşın gerçekliğinden çok halkı yatıştırmak üzere yazılmış gazete yazıları, deneme bile sayılmazlar. Sabun köpüğü gibi yazılar. Yazarın ismi gibi güçlü değil.
The value in this book comes from gaining insight into Steinbeck's experiences as a war journalist.
Anyone looking for a history lesson or additional details on WWII will be greatly disappointed.
Every other nonfiction book I've read on similar topics will be more useful for such readers.
Instead, Steinbeck writes about the mundane and the whimsical and offers a very vanilla perspective on the events he covered.
For fans of the author, however, this is a fascinating look at how starkly different his mindset was compared to others who were involved in major wars, such as Hemingway, Vonnegut, and so on.
Snacky little bites of Steinbeck, yum yum yum. I bet the kids got a real kick out of these stories back then. Some nice anecdotes and, as always with Steinbeck, wonderful details which can mean so much. The sleeping men not seeing the land they may never see again, the white and ragged uniforms of the paratroopers, the shock of bombs upon the memory. I bet he had fun writing these, what an inspiration he is.
While Steinbeck's particular genius was perhaps better suited to novels like Cannery Row and Tortilla Flat, he makes a fine job of war journalism.Favourite quote: There is a quality in the people of Dover that may well be the key to the coming German disaster.
The German, with his uniform and his pageantry and his threats and plans, does not impress these people at all.
Jerry is like the weather to him.
The whole countryside smells of urine, four thousand years of urine.
That is the characteristic smell of North Africa.
This makes the book unique, because there aren’t many dramatic stories, and it’s more about the day-to-day existence where sudden death can come at a moment’s notice to break up the mundane monotony.I don’t want to give too much away – each of the stories is unique, and they range from a tragedy with a movie theater being bombed to the hilarious “Commander William Goat” to ghost stories and “miracles”, along with plenty of different types of units where Steinbeck describes the day-to-day life of the ordinary serviceman (or servicewoman in a few cases) – but each one is a glimpse into what was happening in the corner of the war he found himself in on that particular day in the war (beginning in 1943).
Some of these piece were deeply moving others pretty dull and irrelevant to me .Este es un libro que consta de artículos que publicó el autor en el New York Herald Tribune cuando era corresponsal en la Segunda Guerra Mundial. Algunos de los artículos fueron super interesantes y conmovedores, otros bastante chatos, aburridos e irrelevantes
"Yıllarca korku tarafından sömürüldük biz, sadece ve sadece korku tarafından. Zulüm,yalan,kuşku... Bunlar hep korkunun çocuklarıdır. Havayı nasıl bomba denemeleriyle zehirliyorsak, ruhlarımızı da korkuyla zehirliyoruz."
نمیتونم توصیف کنم که با این کتاب چه احساساتی رو تجربه کردمجان اشتاین بک در این کتاب وقایع رو یک جوری میبنه و توصیف میکنه که هر کسی قادر به درک اون منظر و دیدگاه نیستجوری که انسانهایی که زندگی رو میفهمند این منظرگاه رو تجربه کردن فقط
No report is longer than 3 pages.Steinbeck was with a group from the US Bomber Command and then later he witnessed the Allies liberating German occupied Italy.Some desperately tragic stories written with such sublime skill.
He really gives the readers a glimpse into the human reality of war with his descriptions of the troops in the landing craft, waiting for the dawn.
Never read, in a slip cover and with black and white photos and usually sold for over $50 so my reading enjoyment was enhanced by holding such a beautiful copy.Reading Steinbeck again after reading so many of his novels nearly 50 years ago reminded me why he won the Nobel Prize for Literature: he is a master of the English language.
As a child, when I began to realize what World War II was and that my grandfather had played a role in it (awarded a Purple Heart and Bronze Star for that matter), I sincerely asked him to share his experience of what it was like.
I knew that even 40 years after that war, it really was a subject too graphic for him to remember or for me to be exposed to.While Steinbeck doesn't get too graphic except for one moment in this book of vignettes which are his own primary accounts of the war, he does capture what it was like to be there.
Our modern world is already far removed from the warfare of the 1940's and I believe that the people Steinbeck met and describes simply do not, and indeed cannot, exist any more...we have moved too far down the road and is compounded by the fact that this was not the last of the wars in history.
War has very little to do with the people actually fighting it and Steinbeck's most famous quote from this book is perfect in it's simplicity:"All war is a symptom of man's failure as a thinking animal"
This is a compendium of Steinbeck's dispatches for publication in American newspapers, originally published in 1958.
Hence it took many years before the public knew that Douglas Fairbanks Jr., a lieutenant at the time, pulled off one of his greatest acting jobs.
Armed only with a white towel as a "flag of truce" on an Island off the coast of Italy, he convinced 85 German troops that an unseen force of 600 Americans would bombard their position if they did not surrender.
As it turned out, there were only forty-five Americans on the island.
Steinbeck's war correspondence from the last half of 1943 covers a myriad of instances, from the mundanity of everyday soldier life to the suspense of battle, from the ubiquity of Bob Hope to the chicanery of a private Lothario. As Steinbeck was censored by the War Department, it's unlikely that historians will glean much, but social scientists and those interested in the culture of war will be enthralled at the various real caricatures unearthed in this volume.
These are beautiful. Steinbeck's war dispatches focus not on what happened when but on the soldiers themselves- the well-connected motor pool driver and the private with the lucky pig. His stories are immediate and captivating.
Few Authors can paint a picture with their words like Steinbeck. His war correspondence is brilliant.

Betimlemeleri ve kitabın dili çok güzel. Savaş romanlarına meraklı olanların muhakkak okuması gereken bir kitap.
Steinbeck’s brilliant reporting brings alive the day-to-day lives of the troops and civilians on the ground during World War II.
I absolutely loved this. Steinbeck's amazing talent for telling his readers incredibly profound things by describing small details really gives you a sense of people's experiences during the the war. Shame it's so censored but that's kind of fascinating in itself.
Daha önce hiç John Steinbeck okumamıştım ama Fareler ve İnsanlar kitabını okuma listemde tutuyordum. Ne zaman kitap siparişi versem almakla almamak arasında kalıyordum. Bu aralar canım İkinci Dünya Savaşı ile ilgili kitaplar okumak istiyor bu da yazarımızın o dönemlerde yaşadığı olayları anı şeklinde yazdığı kitabı. Kitanı savaş döneminden sonra yayınlatarak bei biraz şaşırtsa da bence iyi bir anı kitabıydı. Okuması keyifliydi. Savaşta anlatılan şeylerde rahatsız edici noktalar çok ama çok vardı. Bunları görmezden gelmemiz yaşanmadığı anlamına gelmiyor. Yaşanmış bunca acıya ve yaşanacak olan bunca acıya rağmen biz yaşamaya gülmeye devam ediyoruz. Yaşamaya gülmeye devam edeceğiz.
This is most likely the result of having to write under newspaper deadline but it could also be the point of view he used, he never refers to himself in any of these essays.
He does point out that he did this since he wanted to include conversation, but since he did not remember the exact details of specific conversations, he wrote each piece as if it had been told to him, rather than as if he were a witness to the events.
I wish he had written a more lengthy introduction with further details on what had to be left out due to Army censorship, or even self censorship.
This collection of Steinbeck columns from his time as a war correspondent reveals contemporary views of the soldier's life at war.
The book was published many years after the war, but the columns were all written during the war, and because they were written as it happened, there's a certain authenticity that can't be captured in historical writings.
Although I'm sure Steinbeck took literary license with a few of the columns--particularly those dealing with an enlisted soldier who somehow tricks officers into doing things for him--most of the book provides insight into the war at a micro level.
This is a compilation of his work as a war correspondent during WWII.
But, in contrast to what most correspondents were reporting, Steinbeck conveyed the emotions and life-changing experiences of the people who lived the war, soldiers and civilians alike.
It is Steinbeck's ability to capture the essence of war through his brilliant style of writing that is what impressed me the most.
War is not glamorous and Steinbeck's choice not to simply recount the sensationalistic aspects of the war is what sets him apart from other war correspondents.
A definite read for Steinbeck fans as well as WWII followers.
Though John Steinbeck had already achieved great fame from writing the epic Grapes of Wrath, his desire to enter military service was great.
His request was denied due to his age yet his desire remained.
Finally, his request to embed with various fighting units was granted and in 1943 he was able to have his opportunities.
Instead, his goal was to capture the pulse of what was going on at present and combine them into a readable collection of stories.
Steinbeck hits the mark with his collection which reads much like a detached visitor coming to war.
Very readable!
He struggles to add some levity at times (and he is a great comic writer) and in general seems to have a hard time finding his voice.
Perhaps the looming future is more his terrain than the gritty present as he is first stationed with men in England preparing for an invasion.While I prefer this to the Ernie Pyle book I read last summer.
Pyle knew what he was about.
Steinbeck was still finding that out here.
Steinbeck for Steinbeck's sake.
Though I've read the majority of Steinbeck's writing, it wasn't until reading Once There Was a War that I saw in Steinbeck's lighthearted writing a comparison to Twain's charm and anecdotal style.Written originally as war correspondence to be published in newspapers, these vignettes of WWII were later collected in this volume.
Certainly some of Steinbeck's stories here add fodder to the was-he, wasn't-he arguments (ie Communist, misogynist) that are still debated today.
As for WWII, Once There Was a War merely adds a few tall tales, hope, and the occasional laugh to an otherwise dismal war.
