https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/175078.The_Seven_Storey_Mountain
A Trappist monastery is a quiet place! In a Trappist monastery, monks typically have three motivations to speak to one another: to get a particular work project carried out efficiently, to engage in a community discussion, or to discuss one's spiritual progress with a director or confessor. Sometimes, too, Trappists will enjoy friendly conversations with each other in a conversation room or in nature. These different types of conversation are balanced with the discipline of fostering a general
His parents were artists (an English father and his mother was an American Quaker), who travelled extensively between America and France, between the First and Second World Wars and Merton as a child seemed to be continually on the move.Also the difference between being a gregarious individual and then deciding to forsake that to go and live in a world of quiet contemplation did have me wondering I must confess.
Conversation is too important for me and to listen to other views.As usual, I was intrigued by the title and it transpires that  Merton uses the seven-tiered mountain (Dante’s image of Purgatory) as a symbol of the modern world.The attention to detail throughout the book is remarkable and so you must trust me and read it.
So I'll simply quote a few of my favorite passages in the book.As a newly baptized Catholic, I found this passage incredibly beautiful and accurate: "I had come, like the Jews, through the Red Sea of Baptism.
I was entering into a desert -- a terribly easy and convenient desert, with all the trials tempered to my weakness -- where I would have a chance to give God great glory by simply trusting and obeying Him, and walking in the way that was not according to my own nature and my own judgement.
What has to be healed in us is our true nature, made in the likeness of God. What we have to learn is love.
These judgments seem to break down along the following lines:If you're a bad person, and are not Catholic, the reason you're bad is because you're not Catholic.If you're a bad person, and are Catholic, the reason you're bad is because you're not Catholic enough.If you're a good person, and are not Catholic, the reason you're good is because you hang around with so many Catholics.If you're a good person, and are Catholic, the reason you're good is obvious.I didn't expect anything but a pro-Catholic stance from Merton--he was a Catholic monk, after all--but some of his takes border on religious bigotry.
In one passage he praises the prayer-work of a group of monks, stating outright that the reason the United States is a successful nation is because this small group of cloistered guys in upstate New York prays on a daily basis.
Now this, I never knew about men:Is there any man who has ever gone through a whole lifetime without dressing himself up, in his fancy, in the habit of a monk and enclosing himself in a cell where he sits magnificent in heroic austerity and solitude, while all the young ladies who hitherto were cool to this affections in the world come and beat on the gates of the monastery crying, "Come out, come out!" This is the tone you get from this author as he tells of his life: a peculiar mix of contemplation, self-mutiliation, and philosophy.
The stories represent 7 layers of sinfullness and how he rose through them finally reaching the point where it was possible to be saved.Of course when you read a Trappist monk say that he’s led a horribly undisciplined and shallow life, you start to feel pretty miserable.
Merton said, “We did not chase him away.” I love that he only implied the metaphor, the image of Christ, walking bravely toward the cross because we were on the opposite side.
If—and this is a weighty if—if we really believe in the mystical body of Christ—that in reality we are one person with many parts, then when one of us reads, thinks, learns, writes, prays, it does serve the rest.
At about that time, Merton was turned loose on the world with a trust fund that allowed him to pursue his own interests without a need (or a desire) to contribute to anything or anyone.During the next ten years Merton simply indulges himself in himself and he finds the emptiness that can develop from true selfishness.
Merton simply substitutes a faith in a higher power for the emptiness that encompasses his life, and with this transformation he is free to continue his self-indulgences with a sense of righteousness that is reinforced by the Catholic Church.After Merton’s initial transformation, when threatened with the prospects of service to his surrounding community and when threatened with the possibility of military service in World War II, he yet again searches for an even deeper faith.
I listened to the abridged version of Merton's spiritual autobiography back in the 90's, loved it, and actually thought I'd read this book.
His descriptions are so good they remind you of a Baedeker for the world of spiritual literature.Reading the complete book is so much better than listening to the abbreviated audio version.
Also, I'm glad I went on to read The Intimate Merton: His Life from His Journals and The Seven Mountains of Thomas Merton because these two works not only told the rest of the story which he was not allowed to include in his autobiography, but they also continued past the time when this book ended.
There is probably a right balance in our response to God here, and Merton's book offered me the vicarious pleasure of receiving a communion with some sense of ritual gravity, or of reading the lives of saints that we can call our own.
It is refreshing to read a man so repentant over things that most of us would more or less take for granted.
He was an ordinarily intelligent young man who realized that his life was a meaningless exercise in temporal existence without God.
Merton's quest for personal happiness leads him from a life of booze and women to a Trappist monastery.
I read this book with an open mind, hoping that some of Merton's findings would translate into my own life.
He abandons his secular life in favor of godly devotion, but along the way he trades analytical analysis for superstition, and logic for blind faith.
He routinely blames saints and devils for mundane events in his life, and interprets the outcome of any situation to be a sign from God. Rather than convince me of the virtues of religious devotion, his book has left me feeling even more disallusioned and disappointed with organized religion.
Like Confessions, this has become one of the most widely read spiritual classics of all times.Did I like the book?
I am always interested to know how people can change religion into some kind of "awakening." More often than not, there is underlying reason: feeling of belonging (peer pressure) or pakikisama, just to be different or papansin, drama or para maiba lang, para mapagusapan or in an acquiantance's case, to despise his family whose members belong to different religions compared to him and that is because he secretly hates himself by failing them.
I know that this book has inspired many people to discover the Catholic faith or strengthen the faith of those who are steadfast to their belief.This will not be my last Merton book.
Second Reading- The True Reading.The first time I read this, I actually listened to an abridged audio version but didn't realize it was abridged.
I am so glad I read this amazing autobiograhy!
It is so inspiring and beautifully written.This is a must read for anyone who loves the study of religion, personal testimonies, conversion stories and advice on how to live in this crazy world without losing your faith in God and humanity.Thomas Merton lived in an Abbey just about 45min from my home so I grew up hearing about him.
It wasn't until I was an adult though that I really began to study his writings.
There is so much to be gained from this book. I will need to read it again.
ця книжка в багатьох сенсах стала переламною для мене, а після її прочитання в моєму житті сталися найнеймовірніші і найпрекрасніші зміни.після "Історії однієї душі" я прочитала багато духовної літератури, багато було справдні прекрасних книг, але жодна не давала того відчуття благодатного дощу.
тоді я вирішла подочитувати все, що почала, аби зі спокійним серцем віддатися дії цього тексту."Семиярусну гору" не можна оцінювати просто як літературний твір, хоч вона є прекрасним зразком літератури, і саме по собі читання її приносить насолоду.
вона і вглиб і вшир сягає набагато дальше, просто на даний момент я не здатна вмістити всіх її сенсів у слова, бо пережиття цього тексту поки що залишається для мене остаточно незбагненним.
I have been thinking about this book--daydreaming about become a monk.
I think that it wouldn't be such a bad way for things to end up.
I think about what would be different.
Would I read more scripture everyday?
Would I pray?There is a scene when Thomas Merton is visiting a monastery in Kentucky and they give him the key to the library where he can spend his morning reading whatever he wants.
Later, when he lives there he has to grow his own food and do a bit of laboring.
Anyway, this is a very good book.
There were two main things about this book that turned me off: First, I am irritated by the way that he seems to treat esoteric Catholic doctrines as clear and obvious, thus needing no explanation.
Maybe this is a small thing, but I repeatedly found that Merton talked about his faith and beliefs in ways that did not make sense to me, and probably would not to anyone who was not already a Catholic.
Despite this dude's reputation as one of the preeminent religious figures of the 20th century, I found that his path to God seemed to have left him angry, bitter, self-righteous, and occasionally straight up mean.
Merton is a philosopher as well as a damn good writer, and his reflections are vivid, complex, and rich.Why did I wait so long to read Thomas Merton?
A passage that hit me with particular force is Merton's adult explanation of his youthful scorn for his adoring little brother, who followed him everywhere only to be dismissed and rejected."And in a sense, this terrible situation is the pattern and prototype of all sin: the deliberate and formal will to reject disinterested love for us purely for the arbitrary reason that we simply do not want it.
And we refuse love, and reject society, in so far as it seems, in our own perverse imagination, to imply some obscure kind of humiliation." (p.
Later on, I found my father reading this biography by one of their own, and I've been intrigued by Gethsemani and Merton ever since.Merton writes in this one of his over seventy published books about his early life, conversion to Catholicism, and agonizing decision to join an order.
He went on to fill the next and last 20 years of his life with a great deal of meaning, especially with outreach to other spiritual world leaders of other religions, and I deeply respect the bridges he was able to build between his tradition and others.
I can see how my father and grandfather were affected by it.If I had a different experience of Catholicism as a child, this book might have functioned as some sort of catalyst for rejoining the church.
I didn't leave Catholicism out of some reactionary experience.
The idea of having the truth of the universe expressed in a single catechism and of having a single ritualistic practice (The Liturgy of the Hours) accepted and undertaken with a profound passion left me feeling empty in comparison.Zen practice deliberately leaves the resolution of all questions and problems up to oneself.
I understand that this was written when he was still relatively new to monastic life and that he later regretted some of the more condescending or pietistic passages, but even those passages provide such deep insight into the soul of a young believer - things that many, many people struggle with in reaction to the excesses of the world.Merton is a challenging figure, and the book reflects that.
The first half of the book got a little tedious, but the second half simply flew by.
If you find it tough going at first, just persevere.
It gets better.What we've got her is in effect a modern Confessions of St Augustine.
One of the interesting things I found was that he lived in a lot of places I'm familiar with, unlike when I read the lives of saints who are predominantly from Europe.
When he talks about Flushing, Douglaston, Cornell, upstate New York, etc, I know these places.
I know the rail lines.
Recommended reading.
Ось і закінчилась моя більш ніж місячна мандрівка разом з Томасом Мертоном на «Семиярусну гору» його навернення і пошуків Бога.Мандрувати сторінками цієї книжки було дуже цікаво, хоча не завжди цей шлях давався легко.
Не знаю, як йому це вдається, але захоплення від книжки не спадає від початку й до кінця.Для тих, хто боїться довгих текстів, порадила б набратись терпіння, а іноді – докласти трохи (чи багато, кому як) зусиль для того, щоб не зупинитись, не відкинути й не відкласти читання, а все-таки закінчити цей шлях разом з автором.
Тому для мене читати про цей момент було дуже радісно й глибоко!Доводилось постійно втримувати себе від надмірного захоплення окремими цитатами з тексту.
Like Merton, one just has to run him or herself ragged with fighting the duality of the internal and external to come to that point, and the autobiography makes it known that it is not always a joy to have to hit the basest level of yourself to understand what you really are.Overall, the work was quite nice to read, if not a tad bit preachy at times and other times overly sanctimonious, but again, that can be attributed to the newness of Merton's calling, for he entered Gethsemani in 1942, and the partially approved text of the Seven Storey Mountain was approved in 1946, finally being published in 1948.
Merton at least showed me the positive he ended up building around, the things he was really attracted to in the Trappist life, and it makes so much more sense that way.The book helps me a lot because I see so much of myself in Merton, the way he judges himself, the things he was enthusiastic about in the world (writing, teaching, even that long-held dream of being a journalist), and the ability to appreciate tragedy that he has.The one really off-putting aspect of the book is the occasional note of pontification in his descriptions of the parts of the world he lived in, his occasional sermons, and his occasional awkward "purple patch" of melodrama.
Now I am on a fairly decent machine and with a bit of time to spare, but the book is no longer with me for reference.
Merton was a real pioneer,honest and true to his genius,discreet in a way that did not strike me as false modesty,and if he could not convince me to convert immediately,it´s sure not his fault.Before reading this book,during the 20 or so years it awaited on my tbr list,I was familiar mostly with his poetry,some of which I liked a lot.
What may be sufficient to say, however, is that there is something in many of us that has recognized an emptiness in the current age - an emptiness built on the never-ending desire to satisfy one's anxieties and desires to an end that is ultimately self-destructive, both individually and for the culture at large.
And, little by little, in this book we watch him "let [him]self be ground out between the upper and nether millstones of the two conflicting laws within [him]." This is a book about sacrifice, devotion, discipleship, surrender, sacrament, and yes, even sainthood.
Please at least wait until you're 30 and have made sufficient mistakes in life to understand this book's contents.
The book is a classic of 20th century American spirituality.
His way of coping is the Roman Catholic Church.
A lot of what Merton has to say is buried in intellectual stuff (he is, after all, a brilliant Columbia grad), but, at base, I see a hurting orphan who finds comfort in a heavenly father, and the earthly brotherhood of Trappists, Dominicans and the et al of other Catholics who cross his path.
This is an extraordinarily Roman Catholic version of spirituality.
I will continue to read Merton, because I want to understand what happened as he became more and more influenced by spiritualities of Asia.
None of this was wasted on the man, who grew to be an incredible influence on modern western spirituality.
I started this book about five months ago and I intentionally took my time reading this along with my Bible.
It was amazing to follow along Thomas Merton's beginnings and eventually to his final home at the Trappist monastery in Kentucky.
I especially loved the latter section of the book just because of his finally coming to the realization of his vocation.
There is a thread of sadness at least for me throughout the book regarding his family.
The loss of his mother early in his childhood and I don't want to give away any spoilers but again like I said, a touch of sadness.
This book is essentially Thomas Merton's autobiography of his early life through the time of his conversion to Catholicism and entry into a monastery.
Aside from being an interesting story, there are a few additional insights to be gained from this book that make it extraordinary.
For example, at the end of the book Merton talks about how vices can also be manifested in spiritual forms.
While the spiritual versions of these sins are disguised as good, they're just as corrupting to the soul as the other forms.
Insights like these make the book worth reading and throughout the book Merton also feels like someone worth knowing.
He touched all the best his world had to offer in Cambridge, Columbia and the fleshpots of New York City and, while still relatively young, he left it--converted to Catholicism and became a Trappist monk.
Later in his life he may have had second thoughts, but Mountain is full of youthful honesty and enthusiasm for a life beyond what can be touched or measured.“He plants the words [of scripture] full of actual graces as we read them and suddenly undiscovered meanings are sown in our hearts … reading with minds that are at prayer.” “… the willingness to accept life in a community in which everybody is more or less imperfect.
His fellows and his church failed, at just the time Merton believed they offered a war- and modernity weary world an alternative.
"Free by nature, in the image of God, I was nevertheless the prisoner of my own violence and my own selfishness, in the image of the world into which I was born." When you pick up a 500 page book and this is the second sentence of that book, you know you're in for an experience.
Let's talk about what happens in your own heart and head, and let's give some clear distinctions, and let's talk about politics and history and your soul, and let's do it all with the engaging and enraging definiteness of centuries of a continuous Catholic tradition and terminology.
Reading this book could very definitely be a life changing experience in a way that is qualitatively different from most other books that I've read.
