https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/280994.Hand_in_Glove
It's never possible to read just one Ngaio Marsh, is it?I finished Dead Water and pretty much immediately picked up Hand in Glove. A really satisfying mystery with an interesting cast. A really strong, satisfying solution.
Hand In Glove is a "full" novel that proceeds along a steadfast path through and with romance, pets, parties, resentments, pride, and of course, suspicion, murder, and Superintendent Alleyn. I love Ngaio Marsh because her books seem timeless...the murders and people could all take place today, with a bit more assistance from technology:)
A period piece with characters drawn larger than life - the pretence of class showing in the stiffness of the characters. Who has killed a stuffy, pernickety and fussy lawyer? Alleyn must discover the murderer whilst pondering on the importance of a dog called Pixie. Great fun!
I thought the butler did it. He didn't.
Percival Pyke Period (what a name!) is sharing the house with a lawyer, Henry Cartell, who owns a very obnoxious dog.
Henry's sister also lives nearby; she has a very obnoxious ward called Moppett, on whom she dotes.
One of Period's quirks is writing condolence letters to people who have lost someone.
He is also writing an etiquette book and hires young Nicola to help him get his notes in order.
Another friend, Lady Bantling, also lives nearby.
When a body is discovered in a drainage ditch near Period's house, suspicion falls on several people, and it takes Inspector Alleyn to figure it out.
This is another Inspector Alleyn mystery, more or less set in a country house, with a cast of over-the-top society characters. Published in 1962, it's set in the 50s. However, exceptfor one or two internal references, the story could just as well be set in the 20s. It's a competent mystery but didn't engage me, not least because one of Marsh's writing tics---using the verb "ejaculate" instead of "exclaim" or the equivalent, over and over again---got to be very annoying very soon.
Ngaio Marsh, New Zealand crime writer and theatre director, wrote many mysteries beginning in 1933. Love these vintage mysteries and this one was not easy to solve. The murderer was not someone I suspected at all. Not sure about the motive but it was a good, good, read.
Another good read by Ngaio Marsh.
Great characters in this book. Several laugh out loud descriptions of people. I thoroughly enjoyed it.
Overall, a decent mystery. There were two different suspects that evidence pointed to for quite a while and if it had turned out to be either, I would have been disappointed. It would have been way too obvious, but in the end there was a twist. The characters are more than cookie cutter but the romance that develops between two characters, like most mysteries, doesn't come off well. I'm not reading this for the romance, but you almost wonder why they bother if they don't put a little bit more effort into it.
Small village, Alleyn of course knows some of the people from his past. The hired secretary on the murder scene turns out to be friends with Roderick and Troy, and the interaction between Alleyn and Nicola is rather refreshing. Also the little romance that starts up is not between suspects. Nice comfortable little mystery read in between the other things I am trying to get through because I "think I should read." Really, too many books and too little time.
I just didn't like anyone in the story. The nice young lovers are irrelevant, the bad young lovers are irritating, and everyone else is full of themselves, and I don't like genetic determinism and classicism (Surrounding the bad young girl's start in an orphanage because she's obviously the spawn of a prostitute, and nothing the love a good mother can do). The problem is interesting, nothing else is.
Hand in Glove by Ngaio Marsh - GoodThe second of my tea and mystery sweepstakes winnings and a perfect choice.How did I not know about the Superintendent Alleyn mysteries? Vintage/cosy crime, this one was written in 1962 (Hmm, vintage? I'm older than that!) Very much in the Agatha Christie vein, along the lines of a country house murder. Nice little mystery, some obvious clues and red herrings and some less so. Nicely wrapped up at the end.I shall be looking out for more on my travels.
Good readIf you like Agatha Christie’s books you will enjoy the Inspector Allleyn mystery series. They are very well written and have well defined characters. I am looking forward to starting another one.
One of Marsh's more interesting mysteries. I think I've read this before although I really can't remember the plot, so I went for the obvious suspect with the obvious motive. I was mistaken though, so it's delightful to still be surprised.
My suspicions concerning the identity of the murderer proved false on this one. In fact, I had brushed the actual murderer aside as irrelevant; little more than a colorful stage prop. A good story, but not particularly memorable.
memorable--shakespeare's son hamnet...
This is an acceptable cozy murder mystery a la Agatha Christie. Not as good. But ok.
Three stellar stories in a row. I did have an inkling of the culprit in this book but I wasn't sure. Still, fun, especially with a smattering of Troy.
Good writing style though cast of possible suspects somewhat formulaic.
My copy has a Blue binding, and a stylized hand on the dust jacket, but is cited as First Edition on the reverse of the title page.
Amusing
I think at this point, she could just phone them in, but it was still enjoyable.
Inspector Alleyn and "Brer" Fox at their quipping best.
The cast of characters, upper class, Home Counties village dwellers, could come out of a number of Christie's novels, and there is not much of Marsh's personality in this book.The plot itself is not particularly interesting; Mr Harold Carteret's dead body is found under a large, heavy pipe in a ditch being dug by workmen, following a party held by his ex-wife before and during which he quarreled with just about everyone in the village.
I read this book a loooong time ago; would that I had started keeping track of my reading much, much earlier!
I remember enjoying Inspector Roderick Alleyn, another of those upper-class detectives in the mode of Wimsey and Campion, but with the difference that he has actually joined the police force (so maybe a little more like Inspector Rutledge in the Charles Todd books.) His sidekick Fox keeps him grounded and the love of his life, artist Agatha Troy, gets him involved in various artistic murders.
But I enjoyed them very much at the time I was reading them.
As I've been reading more British mysteries, I was wanting to read a tale of Alleyn.I liked the characterization as written.
Considering how long it takes for the reader to get to the core of the mystery, alot of is tread over and over with little sustenance.
Again considering how the mystery eventually unfolds, setting should have been better detailed for the reader.Forgetting this is supposed to be a mystery, which is easy to do with this book, the story of the families is very good and had me wanting to follow some of them further.
#22 in the series and this one seems “grayer,” if that makes any sense.
Perhaps they felt their books needed to get more “realistic” to meet the desires of a changing audience, or perhaps they each felt more somber and subdued after World War II.
Perhaps they weren’t quite sure how to react to the social and cultural shifts of the 60s.Or maybe in the case of this book it’s simply that Marsh has moved away from the more exotic realm of sea cruises or the theater and returned to a simple country village, where even the so-called gentry lack much pretension.
[These notes were made in 1985:].
A domestic melodrama this time, with an eccentric snob called Mr Pyke Period, his lodger who appears to die accidentally in an open ditch, and a series of complicated relations & near-relations.
There is the obligatory cooing young couple whom no-one really suspects; there's a thoroughly bad lot who should have done it but didn't, and there's "The Moppet," his girlfriend.
It turns out to be the elderly frump, protecting "The Moppet" from just retribution for theft.
Alleyn is all efficiency in this one, his equanimity not even disturbed by the fact that one of the Nice Young Things is a personal friend.

