https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64023.Celebration_of_Discipline
It was the missing link I'd been searching for, the connection between Christian thought and spiritual practice.
I stayed up all night reading it, and to this day consider it one of the most important books in my life.
But from what I can tell the heart of his message has remained the same, and he has stayed true to the quiet voice that knocked me on the floor those many years ago.If you wonder how you can find the deeper layers of the teachings of the revolutionary Jesus, you could do worse than to spend some time with Foster.
Some people like objective descriptions of neat and tidy concepts (like me), whereas others prefer more subjective, open ended, provocative discussion (like Richard Foster, perhaps).
This was particularly evident when Foster turned to practical descriptions of spiritual Disciplines that went beyond what is clear from Scripture.
I've come to prefer the term “means of grace” to refer to these kinds of practices, which keeps the focus on God’s part, rather than Spiritual Disciplines, which puts the focus on my part.
I won’t be adopting the life of an evangelical mystic anytime soon, but there’s plenty I can learn from Richard Foster.
The book is inspiring and is a good reminder of the way I can have a more Christ-centered life through discipline.Foster deals first with the inward disciplines: meditation, prayer, fasting, study.
The corporate disciplines: confession, worship, guidance, and celebration (these last two didn't resonate with me as much, but were still worthwhile).What I love the most about the book is his reminder that the pursuit of a Christ-centered life is all about change and bringing ourselves closer to God. To pray is to change.
The disciplines themselves are worthless without change.I like the idea of incorporating meditation into my prayer time and allowing for more silence.
Classic twentieth-century guide to a deeper inner life and joy. As the title implies, discipline is not negative but positive. Foster explores twelve approaches to inner, outer and corporate discipline.Gets better with every reading. In fact, I didn't get half of what Foster had to offer my first time through.
Foster uses a different taxonomy in Celebration of Discipline than Willard uses in his book (Disciplines of Abstinence (solitude, silence, fasting, frugality, chastity, secrecy, sacrifice) and Disciplines of Engagement (study, worship, celebration, service, prayer, fellowship, confession, submission) (p.
Foster’s division of spiritual disciplines is a trinity of Inward Individual (meditation, prayer, fasting, study), Outward Individual (simplicity, solitude, submission, service), and Corporate (confession, worship, guidance, celebration).
Although my summary of this volume may seem somewhat superficial, Celebration of Discipline: The Path to Spiritual Growth is the kind of book that requires several readings and plenty of contemplation in order to get the most out of it.
So, in establishing my "goodreads" library, I thought it was wise to begin with a book that has served to inform, as well as transform my character.
What better place to start than with Foster's classic.
This book establishes the starting point for true leadership...learning to place ourselves in God's presence where he can begin to do the work of transformation in us.
Foster's list of twelve disciplines, I've learned, is certainly not exhaustive, but they are an excellent place to start in the process of becoming firmly rooted in the Spirit's ability to transform us into the character of Christ.
Let me make this personal: In my relationship with God, I have tended to love him like a much loved relative I see often.
Then I end up feeling bad and, upon taking a visit to see my relative (as I continue with the analogy), I tell them, "I'm sorry It's been a few days (or weeks) since we've really spent quality time..." Thus goes my journey.
What I learned from this book is, that is normal and, even in those time, He appreciated my perseverance to "press through" and remain disciplined!
Not only really enjoyed the book, but learned a great deal of life-changing principles I will treasure moving forward in my relationship with God.
The best book of 2017 for me!!!! I read this all year with 2 friends- taking each month to study a discipline and we discussed them over an app called Voxer. This book was life changing- the chapter on prayer and fasting especially. I recommend the audio book as you can stop and listen again and write it down if you want. The author has so much wisdom and I will read this again for sure!
Richard Foster's Celebration of Discipline reads like a cup of strong coffee - pleasant going down, but rather rattling once it enters the stomach.
Each chapter focuses on a different discipline of the Christian life, and Foster is quick to offer snippets of his own attempts (failures & successes) in practicing the disciplines.
It is this very aspect of Foster's book that rattles the stomach.
You may unfortunately find yourself, as I did, among a group of people agreeing to experimentally practice these disciplines and see if Foster is not perhaps telling some truths.
Ultimately, the disciplines in themselves are nothing, but they are various ways to present ourselves before God so that he can bring about spiritual transformation in our lives.
Grace is free, but we do have a role to play in our own spiritual transformation/sanctification/spiritual maturity :)  Our paster a couple weeks ago was discussing obedience, and in my best paraphrase he said there was not too much he could do today that would help him to grow in character and maturity, but over the course of years, a trajectory can change.
Spiritual disciplines change the trajectory of our lives and lead us along a different path.
The will functions in the decision to place our lives before God so that He may work within us...

This is probably one of the greatest books I have ever read on the subject of spiritual discipline. I am only halfway through this book so far, but I can't believe all that I've learned so far. I am in a class at my church and we are using this book for our year-long class. I can't wait to finish reading this book. I look forward to applying all the principles I'm reading about in this book to my daily life and walk with God. Great, great book!
I still stand by doing a lot of things suggested in this book, for these kinds of things have moved me in the right direction.There are 12 disciplines grouped into 3 categories: inner, outer, and corporate.
The chapter in this book even went so far as to suggest that my prayer can change God's mind.
Well, suppose the thing you want isn't in God's divine plan.
What's the use of being God if every run-down schmuck with a two dollar prayer book can come along and fuck up your plan?"That's close enough for government work, I reckon.
While any talk about what to "do" for spiritual health can quickly devolve into legalism and shame, Foster emphasizes grace and the idea that God gave us these disciplines as blessings and access points, if you will, to God's presence.
Using a microscope is not an ethical mandate or the way to perfect scientific knowledge, but a tool we have developed (taking into account the natural abilities of our eyes and the size disparity between humans and viruses) to see and understand viruses.
Similarly, the disciplines are, on Foster's view, the best ways we know (and have been given) to "access" or come into God's continued presence.
Took me a while to get through this, but it was a great, helpful book. I loved learning about the "disciplines", especially at a time in my life when I am trying to curb my habits and routines to become more disciplined in every area. I definitely did not agree with some things he wrote and his theology was a bit skewed, leaning towards mysticism at times. I know there are a few sections I will refer to again and again in the future. 4 stars!
Loved this! A book I will read again and refer back to.
It was clear that Foster deemed each of the disciplines as not a distinct, check-in-the-box kind of action that all good Christians ought to perform, but as a cog in the whole, healthy Christian life that is postured toward God in every respect.
Rather, these disciplines are a joy for the believer to participate in, because they point to and lead to Jesus and the God who pursued them in the first place.My only major complaint with the book is that there was a lack of a sort of "explicit gospel" which would have helped ground the practices in the Christian narrative.
We read each chapter and then set out that week to put them into practice in a deliberate and specific way.
It was pretty awesome and life-changing, actually.
I didn't realize how much of an effect it had upon my personal theology until I just re-read it for a class.Overall, an awesome book.
The aspect which I really love is these disciplines are a way to get one's faith out of cerebral acceptance, or even emotional commitment, and into everyday life.
There is a reason this book is considered a classic, because it is a very accessible read and quite poignant along the way.This is a great read for lay people as well as clergy and academia.
I really loved this book when I was a Neoevangelical. But then I grew Reformed, and it helped me that I ended up pinpointing what so discomfitted me when first reading it: its emphasys on mystical disciplines deviate from Scriptures and end up deemphasysing grace in favour of a focus on works.Not that it cannot be read with profit. We sure can benefit of spiritual disciplines of prayer, Bible study, meditation &c. But we have to be aware, for example when it deviates from Biblical thoughtful, thinking meditation into visualisation of Jesus that borders on idolatry and idol making.
This book is potentially life changing. Thanks to those of you who recommended it to me.
Rather, he writes in a way which seems to say, “This is what I recommend from what I and others have learned, but you are free to do as you wish.” This simple, honest way of writing led me to want to incorporate each of the disciplines into my own life...and at the risk of sounding like one of those other authors, “I can’t imagine anyone reading this book and not wanting to begin practicing these disciplines!”I originally wrote most of this review as a book report when I was studying for my ordination.
Again a book from my past - the 80s - that I re-skimmed. It's excellent in so many ways. Foster's approach to that thing "discipline" is practical and encouraging. He has deep spiritual insight but he's not pompous or overly erudite in his way of explaining prayer, fasting, listening, and worship. I will pass this on but may order it for my Kindle since it calls for re-reading frequently.
الكتاب ده لازم هيكون ما بين افضل الكتب المقروئه لأي حد يقراه , القيمة العملية لكل جوانب الحياة مع الله عالية بطريقة مذهله , قيمة الكتاب فوق الوصف , ببساطة الكاتب بيتناول في كل فصل جزء من حياتنا مع الله ويشرحه ويشرح اوجه القصور ونعالجها ازاي , وطبعا ده حسب رؤيته للجزء ده من خلال فهمه لكلمة الله , بنصح اي حد مهتم انه يقراه بعمق ويحاول يستفيد بقدر الامكان , خلافي مع بعض النقط اللي اتكلم فيها الكاتب ممنعش اني اقيم الكتاب ب 5 نجوم
Although I struggled to get to grips with some chapters in this classic book on spiritual growth, others chapters were so full of nuggets of wisdom I had to pause reading to catch some air! Definitely needs a few reads to full appreciate. This book is nearly as old as me, but a lot of it is still so relevant. Loved the genius of the final chapter too.
Excellent read. Well written with great insights on how to live a Christian life.
This is now the third time through this masterpiece. So simple and yet so demanding. So clear and yet so hard. God, help me in these days and in this day to be your kind of man.
I first read this book years ago.
Recently, I have been searching for spiritual renewal and decided to re-read it.
It is Biblically-based enough to satisfy fundamentalists, but also carried enough intellectual weight and social conscience to satisfy a more liberal Christian like myself.
As I did when I first read the book 20 years ago, I found inspiration here, and a bit of the renewed commitment that I was hoping to find.
I was spiritually and emotionally moved by standing in the places where Luther stood and understanding more deeply his insights and the courage it took for him to stand by them.
Like my reviews?
I thought this book was absolutely fantastic... Truly inspired stuff. It was recommended on Sunday at church and I picked it up right away. I can definitely say that this is book I will probably need to read a few times before everything could possibly sink in and come to fruition in my personal life. I was absolutely blessed by it and I think anyone looking for a deeper walk with Jesus should give it a go. :)
Throughout the book, I felt myself growing not just as a Christian, but as a person attempting to marry conviction with practicality and as a critical thinker considering how to interpret and apply aspects of faith.While the book’s strengths far outweigh the shortcomings, it’s important to note that I had some trouble with the structure and consistency of the book as a whole.
Also, a few chapters, such as the one on fasting, focused so much on the practical that I found myself wondering about the “what” and “why” questions because the “how” so greatly over-shadowed them.Still, this would probably be the first contemporary book I would recommend to anyone trying to grow in their faith, or even anyone simply wanting to learn more about what it means to live as a Christian.
A very good introduction to the classical Christian disciplines.
I have not read it for many years, so it was good to revisit it.This book is an entry level treatment of the disciplines.
Each time I have returned to it I have found that a different chapter has especially struck me, which Foster would say is evidence that Jesus our present teacher and guide (a phrase he uses frequently) is speaking quietly into the human heart.
This time through the chapters on Service and Confession were the ones that spoke most clearly to me.This book on the classical Christian disciplines is itself a classic, as are Foster's other books.
