https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/73934.Merlin
for It was he who prepared the way for the momentous event that would unite the Island of the Mighty—the coming of Arthur Pendragon, Lord of the Kingdom of Summer.My Review: Merlin's first-person narrative of how he makes Arthur into ARTHUR.More Jesusy stuff.
(Religious wars pretty much non-stop from Western Imperial fall until...wait, until now!
So TWO millenia!)I liked Merlin's first-person narrative voice a lot more than the first book's omniscient narration.
But the Atlantean horse pucky and the religious nonsense...well, had it not been for a cute boy wanting me to read his favorite books, I'd've dropped them fast.
This second book in the series takes us from Merlin's childhood to his saving baby Arthur (I don't think that's a spoiler---don't we all know he did that?).
Moving on, Lawhead clearly knows his Malory and his Geoffrey---he is obviously well versed in Arthurian legend, though he changes major aspects of more traditional versions---such things as Merlin's parentage (and Arthur's, for that matter) or having the character who has traditionally been Merlin's sister be his wife instead.
Legends have no definitive source, so I don't mind him changing things up, as long as he doesn't brutalize the soul of the story a la that wretched travesty, First Knight.
As much as I liked the first book in the series, I liked this one more. The first book told two intertwining stories as it needed to do. This was done well, but Merlin is much more focused and I liked it better for that. This is really my favorite of the retellings regarding Merlin, especially since he is a man of virtue and humility.
But while in Taliesin Lawhead spun an intriguing tale that treated the source material with respect, Merlin quickly becomes a religious tract proclaiming how superior christianity is to the pagan religions that it displaces.
For me, Lawhead did two unforgivable things in this book.
To co-opt him as a tool to preach the christian that destroys that tradition, when almost every other aspect of the story already serves that purpose, is both pointless and offensive.And even worse than this, the author turns aside from writing a fine, gripping, meaningful story with strong religious sentiments and begins to write a sermon.
I don't know. Perhaps I was expecting more "Merlinish" things but there was little that happened in this book. (view spoiler)[Merlin grows up, Merlin falls in love (and it's obvious she will soon die tragically), Merlin made some rocks float in the air, he had a vision, he fought a little, and he saves baby Arthur. And that's about it. (hide spoiler)] It just felt like tons of filler to me, and I wasn't that interested in this characterization of Merlin.
La historia de Merlin, desde su tierna infancia, aprendiendo tanto de los druidas como de los curas cristianos que ya estaban en Inglaterra hasta que se convierte en adulto. Su romance con una princesa y después los años que pasa en el bosque hasta que descubre su destino.
After the major disappointment that was Patrick, it was refreshing to read Merlin.
It's not all sunshine and rainbows, and awful things happen, but there is a definite Hope and Light to it that is missing from a lot of books, especially what I've read recently.
Favorite Things- Merlin.
(hide spoiler)]- Hafgan and Dafyd and Elfin and Charis and Maelwys and all the characters I fell in love with in Talisien.- The prayers and hymns and poetry.
Not to mention it's my favorite at the moment.All in all, it is a book that is meant to be savored and a worthy sequel to Talisien.
Very exciting, engaging novel!
Volveremos a encontrarnos con el rey Avallach y su hija Charis, madre del protagonista, otra vez sentiremos ese cada vez más débil toque místico, característico de la primera entrega, en las enseñanzas que el chico recibirá por parte de Hafgan, antiguo mentor de Taliesin.
La narración continuará con la juventud y adultez del mago más grande de todos los tiempos, de esta forma, seguiremos la vida de Merlín, descubriremos aventuras, traiciones, amores y desamores, honor, oscuridad, penas y luchas, palabras, cantos y llantos en una fascinante y épica historia.
En aquest llibre, la història està narrada per en Merlí, i ens explica la seva vida des del moment en què va néixer fins a poc després del naixement del rei Artur.El llibre està dividit en tres parts diferenciades, i és difícil saber quina és la millor.A la primera part ens explica la infantesa d'en Merlí, fins que es casa i espera una criatura.
Però el retrobament amb altres familiars que també provenien de l'Atlàntida, i com va conèixer la seva dona són també d'allò més interessants.
Merlin is the second book in the "Pendragon Cycle".
The story of the ageless Merlin...bard, druid, king-maker, warrior.
From his youth he is the central figure to this story of the political machinations of early Briton.
The story has plenty of energy and although characters rise and fall, come and go, with great regularity it does not fail to drag the reader in all the way to the proverbial sword-in-the-stone-moment at its conclusion.
One aspect that I feel slightly lets the story down is that Morgian is dangled as this central evil character but never really developed.
the second book of the cycle, but the first book of the cycle that i read.. :pall i can say is, this book made me love merlin even more.. ^_^a must read for those of you who loves arthurian legend.. there's a bit of religious stuff in all of stephen r. lawhead's books, which is fine with me.. :)
I always love stories of Merlin and Arthur and this series has been good so far, however it is disturbing to me that Merlin is Christian in these books.
Called “more like an appendix” and “better than Arthur,” the latter books are now read by many in a makeshift order, which I wish I had done.Sorta.
However, I really fault Lawhead for not giving us a simple list by which to decipher the characters and places we have grown accustomed to, like the (obvious) Guinevere as Gwenhwyvar, or–the much less obvious–Excalibur as Caledvwlch.Not to mention, it would have been helpful to know why I was beginning an Arthurian trilogy on Atlantis, with nary a character to recognize (or so I thought).Basically, I love reading Arthurian legends, but–despite its fan-base and high recommendations–I have a lot to complain about this series.
After that, the rest of the book follows the part of the legend that most of us know well and for me became tedious at times since I knew what was coming.I might have added the Romance shelf, but chose not to.
Given that in most, if not all, of Lawhead's works he goes out of his way to avoid description of sex even between married people, I don't see why he needs to include vivid descriptions of violence that are to the point of being offensive to a reader who is at all sensitive.
Nach einigen Seiten legt sich dies jedoch.Was mir besonders gut an dieser Merlin-Version gefällt, ist dass er zwar der weise, mächtige Magier ist, aber dass er alles andere als unfehlbar ist.Das junge Christentum spielt immer mehr eine Rolle.
Ich könnte mir aber vorstellen, dass dies einige Leser befremdet und das Buch deswegen als zu dick aufgetragen finden.
Das Lesepublikum aus den 80-Jahren hat dieses Element der Geschichte wahrscheinlich anders wahrgenommen als Leser heutzutage.Auch am Sprachstil merkt man, dass das Buch in einer anderen Epoche geschrieben wurde.
Das ist fast das schönste an diesem Buch.5 Sterne für die beste Merlin-Legende

BoringVery little actionNot sure where the focus on Christianity comes from, made no sense to meMerlin supposedly had all this power he never used for anythingReplayed the failed relationship from the first book, he killed the woman this timeWhen something of interest happened no detail of how it whyDo not recommend this book
A moving, brilliantly written take on the legendary Merlin, told in a way I never imagined it could be told. Rather than the mysterious and morally ambiguous figure of many Arthurian treatments, this version of Merlin bursts with life, passion, and great moral authority. I'll definitely be continuing with "Arthur" and the remaining books of the Pendragon Cycle! Highly recommended!
Quite a valuable part of the Pendragon cycle, in which characters are introduced, and the challenge of society dealing with the emergence of Catholicism when in the past they were dealing with a more rational druidic form of nature worship, the book rarely (fortunately) implies supernatural forces or unexplained justifications for various occurrences, which can be so easily used in these novels.
I had a small whine about the pacing and characterisations in the previous book in the series (Taliesin), but I think it must just have been Lawhead finding his way into this story because none of them are apparent in Merlin.Good, solid Arthurian tale and I can't wait to crakc on with #3; Arthur.
I read this first in high school or college and thought I would reread 20+ years later just to have something fiction to read.
I didn't care for Merlin as much as Taliesin, admittedly because there isn't as much focus on romance...
I feel that Merlin's life is so aimless.
I guess he is all of these, but I wish there was a little more focus.
Maybe it's interesting that I remember Taliesin and Merlin from reading them 20 years ago, but little about the rest of the books in the series- although I know that I read them all.
Thank you!As surely as I am breathing this account of Arthurian legend is the most forthcoming. I was spellbound and living every moment. I believe as you said that Arthur is more than a legend and that our once and future king has and will live again.
A really great work, Merlin is so well crafted. It is definitely a must read especially for fantasy lovers. The only reason I'm rating it four stars is that it has a couple of cuss words and the fire reading is not really good. Excellent book.
I keep going between 3 and 4 stars. Some parts of this books were really great, and then other parts were so slow.
Good read but nothing special.
The story of Myrddin ap Taliesin told with a strength that it always deserves but rarely is granted.
A great rending of the story of Merlin, wrapped in the history of medieval Wales, the mythology of the Mabinogion and a great continuation of the Pendragon cycle by Lawhead.
Interesting book. Not my favorite Lawhead book. Could have focused more on Moraigian vs Merlin.
Excellent.
