https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76826.Exile_and_the_Kingdom
In the current situation he hosts an Arab prisoner, his apparently 'guest', but actually Daru is true guest is this country, he received good hospitality in this country, for which he decides not to move in his 'prisoner-guest' however eventually he finds himself rejected by both rebellious Arabs and colonial Frenchmen, he takes neutral stance over the conflict but he's been exiled in this country and founds himself in existential conflict between his loyalty to his native land or birth land."Jonas: The Artist at Work" is the story about Jonas, an artist, who struggles to live up to his reputation as a painter, he faces the dilemma to continue his legacy as it pings him that he has nothing more to paint, he's now only shadow of himself and may not be existing anymore.'An artist who's on the way out is finished.
This World is man’s place of Exile and yet it is the only Kingdom he knows.*So while man finds this world an absurd place to live in, a place indifferent to his existence and as cruel as the harsh Sun, where the agony sprawls over like an endless hot desert and the despair is as unbearable as the Algerian heat, man continuously strives to make the best of it, to find a meaning through revolt,freedom and passion.
Through this story, the author attacks the world around the artist which keeps flocking at his door, but he also suggests the only way where a man; an artist can find true happiness.
“Anger and helplessness sometimes hurt so much that you can’t even cry out.” Exile and the Kingdom is a collection of six short stories by Albert Camus. While these tales were brimming with vivid, powerful prose, and Camus’ distinctive flavor of Absurdism was a delight to reconnect with, overall I found the actual plots and characters fairly unremarkable, some even downright forgettable. The collection wasn’t a bad one by any means, but it ultimately failed to really grab me or to leave a lasti
“Anger and helplessness sometimes hurt so much that you can’t even cry out.”
Exile and the Kingdom is a collection of six short stories by Albert Camus.
The collection wasn’t a bad one by any means, but it ultimately failed to really grab me or to leave a lasting impression.
I’d only recommend it for those who are already acquainted with his more popular works and find themselves in need of just one more Camus fix.
(But even then, I’d say you’re probably better off opting to reread The Stranger or The Fall instead.)
Puede que otros lectores no piensen lo mismo.El nivel de introspección que Camus utiliza para los personajes es excelente y no sólo trabaja el existencialismo que le supo imprimir a ellos, sino que expone las diferentes actitudes del hombre ante el conocimiento de su propia condición, necesidades, deseos y esperanzas.Albert Camus es un escritor que supo diferenciarse rápidamente del resto por ser original y es esta una condición destacable que en la literatura es copiada por algunos escritures que nunca pudieron acceder a semejante nivel de calidad narrativa.
In "An Experiment in Criticism", Lewis argues that the only way to truly understand a book the reader must surrender to it and to the author's vision.
It is a constant struggle to surrender to his vision, which is deeply disturbing.The stories in "Exile and the Kingdom" reflect, as they must, Camus' belief that life and the universe are meaningless, and that the fundamental desire for humankind is to find meaning.
The characters that fill the pages of these stories are all in different stages of understanding the absurdity of life, but all of them are caught in the conflict.
the first two "The Adulterous Woman" and "The Renegade" have a desert setting, it's barrenness brings about wonder and madness, "The Artist At Work" works as a mini statement about coping with love, "The Silent Men" and "The Guest" have the theme of compassion and man's need to find comfort with each other, and finally "The Growing Stone" follows a French engineer in Brazil to build a flood defense wall but lands in hot bother with the locals (my favourite).
With them only being brief and not as good as of his more expansive work I would say this is suited better for the diehard fans, luckily I am one of them.
At that time, however, I recognized my apprehensions articulated in his voice and in the voices of some of his characters, particularly the doctor in The Plague.In the sixties one heard about Camus everywhere.
Intrigued by that and by what I heard from the teacher and others, I went on to read, and be very impressed by, The Plague--so impressed that I read it twice within the space of just a couple of years.Camus was, of course, a transitional figure.
Unlike Dad, he articulated what might be learned from that.
Here was a man who spoke truth to boys such as myself.
Personaly I love Camus and this flavour of writing.
The writing, which is for its own sake.
Pure, artistic and honest.
Each story is like a painting that etches itself permanently n vividly in one's memory.
Camus in never in a hurry to 'say it', rather lets it percolate through a tapestry of weighty, artistically structured sentences!
And that is the very hallmark beauty of Camus.
But Camus is 'for everyone' and 'not for all' - at the same time !!!
For me, Camus wil b always d one I adore and would be revisiting him and that too not once !!!
So I start reading this book and I’m like “oh this is nice, let me put my Casa Blance lens on.” I am happily reading along, when all of a sudden, I’m like: wait!  What-the-cluster-fuck?! How did I get here? And it is not just the first short story; it all of them! I had to read it once, twice, and then go back and review and try to understand and read between the lines.So check it, in my opinion, all the stories have to be taken as one ongoing theme: An individual who finds himself displaced in
And it is not just the first short story; it all of them!
I had to read it once, twice, and then go back and review and try to understand and read between the lines.So check it, in my opinion, all the stories have to be taken as one ongoing theme: An individual who finds himself displaced in some other country; falls in love with the culture and because they love it more they love it more than his native land—Adulterous wife.
The book is short and could be great for book club discussions…Hope this helps
Opera lui Camus nu are niciun raţionament (sau dacă are, el este -prin cuvintele autorului, după cum vorbeşte în "Mitul lui Sisif"- un "raţionament absurd".
De aceea opera lui Camus nu este una metodică, ea neavând un sistem după care avea să fie scrisă.
Ea, opera, ilustrează impecabil absurdul, faptul că viaţa e absurdă şi, prin urmare, niciun raţionament nu-şi are rostul...
Grenier, un prieten foarte bun al filosofului existenţialist, spunea: "Camus a luptat nu numai împotriva lenei de a gândi (opera sa este ca o beţie a lucidităţii), ci mai degrabă s-a împotrivit lenei de a simţi.
One thing is certain, Camus has a way of presenting real life that causes the reader to become AWARE.
The author has a way of presenting life at its most raw and foundational level.
My own mindset caused me to look at how the role of balance/homeostasis/opposites played into this collection of stories, and how our most basic desires, feelings and emotions play into every decision that we make.
Resistance within a system is good, but it ultimately achieves nothing if it does not change the very system itself.
Ils sont tous confrontés à des situations ambiguës, le quotidien ne leur convient pas, ils sont exilés du «royaume» (à un sens à leur vie) qui correspond, selon Camus lui-même, à une certaine vie libre et nue que nous avons à retrouver pour renaître enfin!Mais les conditions d’émergence de ce royaume conservent toujours un côté énigmatique.Mais cher Camus, n'y a-t-il donc que l'exil?
I love Camus (The Stranger, The Plague and The Fall, in that order), but this one left me unimpressed.
I liked the last four stories more, with "The Guest" and "The Artist at Work" being my favorites, but they were still pretty hollow reading experiences.
Granted, the subject matter is as bleak as Camus's worldview, but all of his other fictional works are significantly more interesting while dealing with the same overarching perspective.
I wanted to give this 3 stars just because that's how much I love and respect Camus as both writer and philosopher, but if I'm grading this specific book honestly I have to give it only 2, and risk the wrath of those more intellectual than I.Not Bad Reviews@blakerosser1

3.5*
There are limits as to what a writer should expect his reader to hold in his head and I felt like I was being asked to mentally juggle a dozen descriptions and characters whilst trying to read what, at the end of the day, was quite a thin – though not a bad – story.Overall I enjoyed the book.
"Dilsizler" ve "Konuk" isimli öyküleri çok güzel. Cezayir'de sömüege karşıtı bir Fransız'ın gözünden yaşam ve Arap halkının durumu çok güzel anlatılıyor.
As we can see from the first title and its first three sentences of the first story as follows:The Adulterous WomanA house-fly had been circling for the last few minutes in the bus, though the windows were closed.
An odd sight here, it had been silently flying back and forth on tired wings.
Janine lost track of it, then saw it light on her husband’s motionless hand.
361)The Adulterous WifeA fly circled feebly for a moment toward the raised windows of the bus.
Janine lost sight of it, then saw it land on her husband’s motionless hand.
Bu öykülerde genel olarak dini, siyasi ve felsefi motifler öne çıkıyor.
Yeri geliyor İncil'e atıflarla Hristiyanlık dini sorunsallaştırılıyor, yeri geliyor Cezayir'in siyasi durumu (sömürge/bağımsızlık) irdeleniyor, yeri geliyor hayatın, ölümün ve doğanın absürtlüğü çerçevesinde absürt felsefe masaya yatırılıyor.
Beni en çok etkileyen öyküler bir suçluya yaşam-özgürlük-mahkumiyet üçgeninde seçim hakkı tanıyan ve Camus'nün siyasi duruşuyla özdeşleşen Daru'nün öyküsü Konuk; Paris'li entellektüel elit kesimin hicvedildiği ve ressamlıktan yazarlığa geçiş yapacak bir sanatçı olan Jonas'nın öyküsü Jonas ya da Resim Yapan Ressam ile Veba'nın aksine dostuna acıyarak yardım etme yolunu seçen ve yaşamın dinden daha üstün olduğu mesajını veren mühendis d'Arrast'ın öyküsü Büyüyen Taş oldu.
Güçlü bir romancı olan Camus'den yine güçlü, yetkin ve sofistike öyküler...
Just like any of Camus’ books, this one is smooth, pure and true.
What I really love about Camus’ writings is the glimpses of hope within the indifference and absurdity, and in this book specifically, hope is like a shadow in each of the stories’ protagonists.
The story I loved the most is “Jonas the Painter”, as it is very individualistic, and takes you briefly into the routine of an artist swinging between the joy of art and the misery of fame.
The joy of having a family and the misery of losing an audience.
Albert Camus'un bir kitabını daha okudum. Anlattığı felsefeyi yaşayan kahramanlarından oluşan öyküler. Aldatan kadın en güzellerinden biri. Normal yaşamda olağan üstü şeyler olmadığı halde kişilerin absürd lükleri okumayı bence çekicileştiriyor. ama herkes için geçerli değil bu. Kitaplarının çoğunu okusam da hala bu düşüncelerin insan doğasına uygun bir seyirde geliştiğini düşünemiyorum. Bu düşüncenin Camus'un hayata bakışının genele uygun tavır haline olarak kitaplarda yer almasının zorlama olduğu kanaatindeyim.
This is a collection of short stories, some of which (as always) are a bit better than others.
I only give this four stars because I had a little difficulty figuring out how one of the stories fit with the other five.
Admittedly, sometimes it's hard (or impossible) to place the scene, but hanging over each story is the sense that the central characters are not indigenous, and not comfortable.I plan to read more Camus.
I'm so used to reading novels that I had almost forgotten what a pleasure a good short story can be.
Two words come to mind as I turn the final pages of this wonderful collection: Breathless, breathtaking.
Perhaps they are the same.There is an animal, elemental intensity at play here as Camus once again cements his position not only as an intellectual giant but also as one of the greatest fiction writers.
The Renegade, or A Confused Mind stands out singularly as an expert tale that collides the potency of Kafka with the devastation of Orwell, and much more.
Camus is a master at crafting ingenious descriptions ("long, liquid muscles (of the river) shone intermittently"), and with his usual philosophical underpinnings, imbues into his prose thorough insights into the human condition.

I expected the stories here to be more... intimate, for lack of a better word. Instead, the stories had detached narrators and the camera view was too distant from the protagonists in each story for me to sympathize with any of them. While the descriptions and details were beautiful, there was an excess of narrative compared to dialogue and action - basically lots of telling. I've only read one of Camus' novels previously but I have a hunch he's a brilliant novelist but not necessarily so as a short story writer.
camus öyküleri. less is more akımının yegane öncülerinden olan albert abimizin öyküleri pek bi şey olmuyo gibiyken aslında ne çok şey oluyor ulan dedirten cinsten. “gel bizle otur” kadar basit bi cümlenin ne kadar büyük boşluklar doldurabileceğini falan düşünürken buluveriyorsunuz kendinizi. pek konuşmayan insanların içseslerini sanki kendi içinizde duyarsınız, onların küçük / anlamsız/ absürd heyecanlarını yaşarsınız vs vs...
Ο άνθρωπος ζει "εξόριστος" στη ζωή, ωστόσο ενίοτε χτίζει μέσα σε αυτήν την εξορία του τα μικρά του "βασίλεια" κάνοντας τις μικρές του προσωπικές επαναστάσεις, ζώντας με πάθος και ελευθερία. Κοινός τόπος των περισσότερων διηγημάτων του, η έρημος της Βορείου Αφρικής, σύμβολο της μοναξιάς του. Βαθύς υπαρξισμός σε μία καταπληκτική συλλογή διηγημάτων από τον τεράστιο Καμύ. Υπεροχο!
A good collection of short stories, told with Camus' characteristic deep thought and meaning.
The reason I haven't got around to writing a review is due to the absurd amount of books in the world.
Young readers should keep in mind that, at the time they were published (1957), Algeria - the birthplace of Albert Camus - was still French.One of the most successful news is titled "The Adulteress".
When her husband is asleep, Janine leaves the room and, all alone in the night, has a long intense and strange experience: "In the thickness of the dry and cold night, thousands of stars were forming without cease and their glittering ice cubes As soon as they were detached, they began to slip insensibly towards the horizon.
