https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/95198.Tintin_au_Congo
Tintin au Congo = Tintin in the Congo (Tintin #2), HergéTintin in the Congo (French: Tintin au Congo) is the second volume of The Adventures of Tintin, the comics series by Belgian cartoonist Hergé.
Commissioned by the conservative Belgian newspaper Le Vingtième Siècle for its children's supplement Le Petit Vingtième, it was serialised weekly from May 1930 to June 1931 before being published in a collected volume by Éditions de Petit Vingtième in 1931.
In fact, Tintin looks like something from a Black & White Quick & Flupke story in the original version (unsurprisingly, since it is by the same author / artist).
This isn’t that much different from In the Land of the Soviets as far as plot development and ham handed comedy is concerned, but it looks like one of the later books, which can create one heck of a false expectation.This book has received a lot of bad press, and has not been published for many years as a result.
There is no need to revisit the polemic about the "ambient" racism and the colonialist clichés (although the reflection of an era and its mentalities) that flood this second volume. Without counting on the caricature of the hunting-poaching...Otherwise, the character begins to choke, as well as his personality. The designs are refined.
Y aún después del recorte que el propio Hergé le aplicó en 1946 (reduciendo las 110 planchas originales a las 62 que tienen las aventuras en la actualidad), se aprecia la razón en muchas de las viñetas.Como el anterior volumen, es más una curiosidad que una buena historia, ni siquiera tiene un argumento cohesionado, y lo cierto es que el racismo latente y determinadas escenas de violencia gratuita hacia los animales llaman la atención aún sabiendo lo que te vas a encontrar, en palabras del propio Milú: no puedo soportar estas escenas de carnicería...
ثاني رحلات تان تان بعد رحلة موسكو والاولي التي يتم اعادة رسمها وتلوينها من قبل هيرجيه نفسهولكن ربما 
I have heard how racist this book was, and Herge did choose to draw all of the African natives in a very sterotypical early 20th century way, and they aren't quite as smart as Tintin is, but from the three books of Herge's I've read now no one is really as smart as Tintin in the stories.
They way the natives talk is a kind of stilted 'dumb' sort of way, but Herge also does this with the Soviets in the first Tintin book, and with the Mafia gangsters in the America story.
However, as an example of white supremacy attitudes of the time, it is an interesting document.
The book has often been left out of Tintin collections or edited to soften its most egregious content.
I found two English language black and white (and one Spanish language color) editions online at www.Scribd.com, a document sharing website.
The English copies at Scribd state that this book was "first published in the U.S.A. in 2002." In the Forward the translators say the author "admitted that he depicted his Africans according to the bourgeois, paternalistic stereotypes of the period.
Uh, this book is freaking terrible.
And not just the racism--it lacks all semblance of a plot.
ওহ হো! এইটা দু নমবরটা!! আমি ছোট থাকতে কখনো বুঝতে পারিনি এখানে রেসিজম ছিল। এমনকি আফরিকান অধিবাসীদের যে ডরয়িং গুলো তা থেকে বুঝতেও পারিনি যে এরা মানুষ। ধরে নিয়েছিলাম অনয কিছু একটা। দিস ইজ ডেফিনিটলি এ সযাড থিং। এক ফোঁটা বিষ যেমন অনেকটা পানিকে বিষাকত করে ফেলে এই বই তে রেসিজমটা ঠিক একই কাজ করেছে। :(
ওহ হো! এইটা দু নম্বরটা!! আমি ছোট থাকতে কখনো বুঝতে পারিনি এখানে রেসিজম ছিল। এমনকি আফ্রিকান অধিবাসীদের যে ড্রয়িং গুলো তা থেকে বুঝতেও পারিনি যে এরা মানুষ। ধরে নিয়েছিলাম অন্য কিছু একটা। দিস ইজ ডেফিনিটলি এ স্যাড থিং। এক ফোঁটা বিষ যেমন অনেকটা পানিকে বিষাক্ত করে ফেলে এই বই তে রেসিজমটা ঠিক একই কাজ করেছে। :(
But while this might be partially correct for some of the later Tintin graphic novels (where humour and satiric intent is definitely both present and easily appreciated, easily noticed), the storyline (even if at times somewhat exaggerated) of Tintin in Congo really never reads and never feels (at least to and for me) as being all that satirical or in any way much critical of colonialism (the attitude towards Africa and towards Africans is at best massively paternalistic and as such both frustrating and so annoying that I can only and will only consider a one star rating).
لمن يريد أن يستريح قليلا بعد القراءات الطويلة المتعبة أو لمن يريد التجديد و التنفيس قليلا..أهلا بكم في عالم تان تان
Like the last volume in the series, this one is another flop bearing no real resemblance to the themes, characters, or style of the later series.
Rider Haggard look tame and responsible in comparison, though I find it hard to argue that the stylized drawings of the Africans are racist, since it's not like the European characters are examples of detailed realism.
I mean, when your main character's head is a mouthless blob with two pseudopods and tiny holes for eyes, it's hard to complain that other characters in the book are too simplistic.But yeah, another read that's only interesting to completists and cultural historians.
The beginnings of these stories have been around as long as the Lord of the Rings, the illustration and environments in the Tintin books are accurate and extremely detailed.
Anyone who has spent even a little time exploring Herge (Georges Remi) can see the painstaking research and adversity he worked through to compose the world around Tintin.
His ideas were ahead of his time (Exploring the moon, Industrialization, South American political conflict, modern slave trade, extraterrestrial life) and he made certain every detail for every object would be realistic (after the third book at least).
Herge's work can certainly be cited as an influence for any modern day graphic novel or comic book.
But when I googled it, I was kind of devastated.I grew up with Tintin , and loved him for his courage and intelligence, but in this book he acted like a racist animal hating jerk.I don't know whether Harge was a hardcore racist or just a product of his time, but this is the only book where he let me down.
Other than this one, I'm a die hard Tintin fan and consider Harge as one of the best cartoonists of all times.
Looks better artwise than the first volume but its a very weird book and not because of outdated,racist look on Africa. The treatment of the animals,the callaous way they are destroyed,the great white hunter thing disturbed me the most. Tintin was my childhood hero when i read the series but the first two volumes are not fun,the Tintin everyone knowns.
Tintin at his racist best. I think this book has been pulled from publication everywhere.
Mal ganz abgesehen von dem nicht immer ganz offensichtlichen Rassismus, der aber das ganze Werk unterwandert, ist die Geschichte für mich irgendwie sinnlos und Tim unfassbar unsympathisch und sein Hund einfach nur nervig.
Tim ist so unfassbar anmaßend, ein richtiger Kotzbrocken, der alles besser weiß und am Ende ohne jeden Respekt für das Land, über das er doch eigentlich berichten soll, abhaut, ohne sich irgendwie vorher zu verabschieden.
Spätestens nachdem ich so einige Sekundärtexte zu "Tim im Kongo" gelesen habe, kann ich das, was dieser Comic unterschwellig an Arroganz und Xenophobie aussagt, sehen und muss sagen, dass ich ziemlic viel Wut auf dieses Werk verspüre.
برام غم انگیزه که اونقدر از چیزی که خیلی ها عاشقشن خوشم نیومده!مخصوصاً با وجود خواهری که هر جلد تنتن رو صدها بار (بی اغراق) خونده و زندگیش باهاش عجینه..شاید دارم دیر میخونمشون. نمیدونم. یا که صرفاً با سلیقهام جور نیست.نکتهای که برام ناراحت کننده بود، این شکار کردن زیاد حیوانات هم بود.
برام غم انگیزه که اونقدر از چیزی که خیلی ها عاشقشن خوشم نیومده!مخصوصاً با وجود خواهری که هر جلد تن‌تن رو صدها بار (بی اغراق) خونده و زندگیش باهاش عجینه..شاید دارم دیر می‌خونمشون. نمی‌دونم. یا که صرفاً با سلیقه‌ام جور نیست.نکته‌ای که برام ناراحت کننده بود، این شکار کردن زیاد حیوانات هم بود.
In the first book (Tintin in the land of Soviets) Snowy the dog saves frozen Tintin by using salt as a freezing point depressor - quite scientific!In this issue, Snowy becomes afraid as it finds a spider in the morning, breaks a mirror on their voyage to Congo thinking these may bring them dangers.
Even in operating table Snowy becomes frightened seeing an African and hides away .
To comfort Snowy Tintin explains him using the word " That black ".
And I particularly don't like Tintin's hunting episodes - kind of torture to the poor animals.
Awkward to have such a moment archived.
And yet now things have changed both for me personally and as per my beliefs also for this world and hence this book simply comes across as a sheer disappointment and a stain in one of my childhood idols face This re-read has guaranteed that I won't ever read or recommend this particular book In the Tintin series to anyone and hope that the memory of this book stays erased .
At the same time I am scared to read the next books in the series in fear of finding other disturbing things and in so tainting my childhood further
This Tintin adventure has become notorious because of the horribly stereotypical depiction of Africa.
Not an excellent example of Hergé's art - later adventures have more depth and authenticity.
The main reason one has to read this book is to see how much attitudes to people other than ourselves (whoever the 'our' may be) have changed.Hierdie vroeë Kuifie-avontuur is kru omdat die uitbeelding van Afrika op gruwelike stereotipes gebaseer is.
Die rassisme en argelose doodmaak van diere, saam met die vlak, episodiese verhaal, maak dat hierdie boek nie 'n essensiële aflewering in die Kuifie-reeks is nie.
I had to read this in French, because it has been banned in English.
There seems to be a move to ban it in French as well.
Here's an article in French about how they're trying to ban it in Belgium:http://www.lemonde.fr/culture/article...I'm definitely opposed to banning books simply because their opinions are out of fashion - this one was written in 1930 and has a very very patronising view of African people.
"Tartarin de Tarascon" was written in 1872 and has a much more realistic view of Africa than "Tintin au Congo".
Entretenido pero polémico álbum de Tintín.Los gags de Tintín y Milú y sus persecuciones y porrazos continúan siendo graciosos pero las ideas que subyacen en este cómic no son muy agradables.Obligado por la línea editorial de su periódico Hergé incluye algunas ideas en este cómic que cambiaría en posteriores ediciones del mismo, cuando ya tenía total libertad creativa.Aquí Tintin se va al Congo y se enfrenta a unos malhechores que buscan hacer fortuna explotando las minas de diamantes de África.
Pero a parte de hacer esta buena obra se carga a un mono, una serpiente y un elefante yendo de Safari.
It's not that this is one star dreck, it's more that I know what Herge was capable of and while the art is excellent, the story is utter rubbish - even ignoring the racism and animal cruelty - they catch the villains and then there's ten pages spent hunting animals to finish.
It is a fascinating time capsule of a book, even this sanitised English translation but that is about all it has going for it.My rankings:1) Tintin in the Congo - rubbish story, early work, only time this will be on top.
Não gostei mesmo!Racista e duma extrema violência para com os animais.Desde um macaco morto com o objectivo de lhe roubar a pele para conseguir um disfarce, a um rinoceronte morto com dinamite, a um leopardo obrigado a engolir uma esponja e depois água para que o estômago inche e desta forma fique imobilizado. Enfim... Muitos mais episódios macabros deste género preenchem este livro. Apesar de retratar as atitudes que se tinham nos anos 30 do séc XX, é um livro que não é nada adequado e recomendado a crianças.Não recomendo a ninguém.
الكوميكس لا ينصح بيها للأطفال لأنها تحمل الكثير من العنصرية لألوان البشرة المختلفة والعنف تجاه الحيوان ....استمتعوا ...دمتم قراء ... ❤❤❤
The second of the Tintin adventures this one, like the first, is one I never read as a child.
And I'm glad I didn't.
Not political like the first one this volume is set in the Belgian Congo as it was known at the time.
It is full of white European Imperialist ideas and beliefs.
I see lots of 4 and 5 star "reviews" but I doubt those people have actually sat down and read this properly.
Or at all.Thankfully the next volume is the start of the newer version of Tintin and hopefully they'll get more enjoyable.
Não é que não goste de Tintin ou que a história não tenha alguns momentos engraçados, mas o livro pareceu-me ainda mais racista e preconceituoso do que aquilo que eu estava à espera.
Claro, que é necessário ter em conta o contexto histórico em que foi escrito, assim como a mentalidade da época, mas é precisamente esse desfasamento temporal que leva a que, na minha opinião, algumas das partes do livro sejam mesmo consideradas como ofensivas.No entanto, e de um modo geral, era um livro que queria ler e cuja leitura soube apreciar.
No entanto, tendo em conta o seu conteúdo, não consigo dar mais do que 2 estrela.
This is definitely one of the crappier Tintins. Quite apart from the rampant racism (context be damned, it's positively revolting) it's fragmentary and episodic in the extreme. Just as you think that he's disposed of the bad guy, he pops back up again and suddenly Tintin is running again. And there's a crocodile involved somewhere, and a kindly missionary (or was the missionary the bad guy?) and at one stage the Congolese tribe ends up worshipping Milou. Um.However, it was interesting to read the parts in Creole.
