https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2008927.Might_as_Well_Be_Dead
James Herold hires Wolfe to find his son Paul, who broke off all contact with the family eleven years ago after his father unjustly accused him of theft. Archie finds him after his only a couple of days--at the very moment a jury convicts him of murder. Another good entry in the series.
The right answer would be Nero Wolfe of cause.This time a wealthy businessman (only very wealthy people can afford the fees Wolfe charges for his services) from Omaha asked the detective to find his son who disappeared 11 years ago after being unjustly accused of theft by his father.
Nobody knew that this seemingly simple, but hopeless search would lead to a lot of dead bodies.
This novel is one example of this: I already mentioned a lot of dead bodies and its count is very high for an installment of the series and this time one of the familiar characters will supply his/her own.
Convinced that Paul (now known as Peter) was framed, Wolfe sets out to find the real murderer.
Or Fred.) Which is great news for Paul/Peter, since he's been in prison this whole time and can't very well have done it.
This time, the lady of greatest interest to Archie is the lovely Selma Molloy, the wronged wife of the murder victim, for whom Paul/Peter has the hots (which hots are indubitably reciprocated).
And it's certainly new for Wolfe to investigate a murder after the District Attorney has obtained a conviction.
He gives her the examples from this case where one wife was an "order-giver" and one husband insisted on holding his wife's hand, even when she didn't want it held.
He then says he hopes the examples he gave the woman will keep her "from developing into an order-giver or a one-way hand-holder, but leave it to her, she'll find some kind of monkey wrench to toss into the machinery, and if she doesn't her husband will." These jaded kind of comments pervaded the book, which leads me to think that Rex Stout might have been having "woman problems" in the late 1950's.
"When a hippopotamus is peeved, it's a lot of peeve." Archie Goodwin, the narrator of the Nero Wolfe tales, has a lovely turn of phrase.
His employer does as well, although in a totally different way.
When a lawyer suggests there should be a written agreement, Wolfe says,"There won't be.
I take the risk of failure; you'll have to take the risk of my depravity." Wolfe often sends me to the dictionary, which isn't a bad thing.
Lots of corpses litter the pages before Wolfe finally brings together all the suspects and points his finger at the true killer.
Another goodie from the master of detective fiction, Rex Stout. In this book, Wolfe and Archie take on a missing persons case which has a bit of a twist which I won't reveal here. Additionally, a continuing character who only appeared periodically is murdered. Being a Nero Wolfe fanatic, I am extremely biased but if you haven't read this series you are missing something and the interaction between Wolfe and Archie is priceless.
It's been a long time since I read a Nero Wolfe, and perhaps absence made the heart grow fonder, or perhaps this is just one of the better ones. It follows the formula to the letter, but has some its spring in its step and delivers what it offers, a diverting piece of pulp detective fiction.
Хороший детектив, хотя больше всего мне понравилась не детективная история, а сам стиль изложения и, конечно же, юмор и то как Арчи Гудвин постоянно подтрунивает над Ниро Вульфом!!!
In some seventy books and novellas written from 1934 to Stout’s death in 1975, Nero Wolfe is the brainy detective, Archie Goodwin his sidekick and housemate who writes up the stories.
The usual setting is the great world city that was New York during Wolfe’s career, where Wolfe lives in an old brownstone from which he seldom stirs.
Wolfe (or anyway, Archie) does the job handily, but there are complications, the solution to which involve much entertaining coursing across the city, meeting the as usual not very edifying cast of characters, and ending with Wolfe’s characteristic inquest, whereby the principals are brought his office for a set piece of rigorous logic which concludes with his producing the villain.
Wolfe undertakes a missing person case.
Not that he needs the work but he does not like the client so takes it on for the challenge and the cash.
Almost at once the missing person is linked to a murder trial in progress.
And we now have a bigger challenge.
All info in the papers convinces Wolfe that the man found guilty was framed and he is the missing person.
After a string of deaths the police are finally convinced they got it wrong and with the usual confrontation of suspects and interested parties in Wolfe's office we uncover the criminal.
An old-fashioned "who-done-it." I was wondering about all the leading characters, including "PH" in jail, to almost the very end.
Eleven years earlier, "PH" as a young man, was falsely accused by his father of stealing from the family hardware company in Nebraska and he fled to New York.
He was later cleared and the father has hired Nero Wolfe to find him.
Wolfe and Archie Goodwin soon realize he is siting in jail waiting to be sentenced for murder under a different name.
It comes with the usual inept police, Wolfe-ian idiosyncrasies, Archie-ian irreverent comments about his boss, and a little romance.
Taking the task to uncover a wrongful conviction as well as reuniting son to family.In this book one of the team becomes a victim.
However, as one who is trying to read the books in order, and having had to read the series missing two of them due to waiting for them to get to the library...
So, if you have not read The Black Mountain before this book...
please read it first!While many books in this series aren't subject to tight sequencing...
they have points where they are, and of course the change in technology that is mentioned throughout the books progresses as well.
Great little whodunit. I was introduced to Nero Wolfe through the excellent TV show "A Nero Wolfe Mystery" and have found the original books as enjoyable as the show. Full of fascinating characters, dry wit and deadpan humour, this detective story from the 1950s neatly straddles the line between noirish hard-boiled detective fiction and cozy mystery.
I'm not as a rule sensitive to feminist issues, but this is the limit. Not one of the characters, and neither, probably, the author, ever supposed that P.H. might be understood not as a Paul Harold, but as a Patricia Halliday or someone like that. Why didn't one call and ask if the advertisement was aimed at her?That said, I liked everything else about the book.
Another good Wolfe--I never remember this one, but I like the widow and the plot, even if the solution is rushed. And I'll forget them all again in another five years. And it doesn't matter, since I'll read it again and enjoy it.
As always, Archie Goodwin provides the best narrative to a twisty-bendy mystery that had me on the edge of my seat! Loved it all the way through.
One of the truly good Archie Goodwin/Nero Wolfe mysteries. It was a pleasure to revisit it.
Wolfe has been hired to find a prodigal son.
The son's initials are PH.
A man with those initials has just been convicted of murder.
He's about the same age and Wolfe thinks it might be the same man.
He says something along the lines that he's been wrongly accused of a crime twice, he can't hope for his innocence to be proven again.It's up to Nero to figure out whether or not PH is his client's son, whether he committed the murder, and whether the killing of one of his detectives is connected to this case.
This is the Nero Wolfe novel that I read and re-read. I love the characters in it: a young man wronged by his father by having his innocence disbelieved and then the same thing happens to him with the woman he loves. Still he struggles on, quietly doing what he feels is right. Now it’s up to Wolfe and Archie Goodwin not to do what the selfish father asked them to do, but the right thing. I enjoy following them doing just that.
Rex Stout's 1956 novel "Might As Well Be Dead (A Nero Wolfe Mystery Book 27)" is another of his Excellent ones (I'm rating it at 5 stars out of 5). I've got no problems with it whatsoever. The pacing is really good, all the characters well done, and, of course, the writing is wonderful. If you're a Nero Wolfe follower, you don't want to miss this one.
I haven't read a Nero Wolfe book I didn't love, but this wasn't the greatest mystery. It was good but not great. What I did love though was how Archie felt about Mrs. Molloy and how that played out the entire book. Archie is my favorite character, loved him in this book.
A very good Nero Wolfe mystery. I love to read Rex Stout's Nero Wolfe mysteries. It features Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin, the brownstone, New York, and an intriguing mystery with a satisfying ending. I greatly enjoy reading Nero Wolfe mysteries.
This one was a bit boring for me, but the mystery was clever as usual. And Archie Goodwin is hands down one of my favorite narrators ever. I love his descriptions and one-liners; he always gives these novels the proper noir feel.
Good read. I like the book a quick read. I loved the TV series also with Cannon and Tim Hutton. The bad guy gets caught in the end.
An awareness of why you feel the suspense and fear does not stop the feelings.
Another excellent Nero Wolfe/Archie Goodwin mystery solved. I love Archie's sense of humor. You can read the synopsis to get the plot. Read the book to enjoy the story.
Strains from coincidence that Edgar Rice Burroughs would think was too much. Not one of the better entries in this usually dependable series.
New series to follow with very colorful set of investigators. Procedural details and interesting cases.
Yet another excellent Nero Wolfe story. This time , Wolfe and Goodwin start out looking for a long lost son and end up looking for a murderer..
A very fun read. Rex Stout continues to deliver great entertainment!!
