https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22055262-a-darker-shade-of-magic
Every night of the year, the market lived and breathed and thrived. The stalls were always changing, but the energy remained, as much a part of the city as the river it fed on. Kell traced the edge of the bank, weaving through the evening fair, savoring the taste and smell of the air, the sound of laughter and music, the thrum of magic. I'm already a Victoria Schwab fan after reading her good vs evil superhero urban fantasy novel - Vicious - so I couldn't wait to get reacquainted with her addic
I'm already a Victoria Schwab fan after reading her good vs evil superhero urban fantasy novel - Vicious - so I couldn't wait to get reacquainted with her addictive writing style, complex characters and wonderfully-conceived fantasy worlds.
As it turns out, A Darker Shade of Magic was even more than I'd expected.This book feels more like traditional fantasy than Vicious with the style, the invention of a new language, the large cast of characters, the magic, and the focus on royal/political dynamics.
Well, in this world there are four different versions of London that only the Antari like Kell can move between.
“I’d rather die on an adventure than live standing still.” Isn’t it astonishing how upon our second readings of our favourite books, we discover so much more about our beloved characters and the world-building itself than the first time around?And so in consequence to my rereading of A Darker Shade of Magic in order to be fully prepared (memory-wise) for A Gathering of Shadows, I started seeing redeemable qualities in Delilah Bard, the fierce, courageous (yet reckless) thief.When she and Kell—t
Isn’t it astonishing how upon our second readings of our favourite books, we discover so much more about our beloved characters and the world-building itself than the first time around?And so in consequence to my rereading of A Darker Shade of Magic in order to be fully prepared (memory-wise) for A Gathering of Shadows, I started seeing redeemable qualities in Delilah Bard, the fierce, courageous (yet reckless) thief.When she and Kell—the gorgeous Kell, my sweetheart, Kell—had gotten closer on my first reading of this book, I damn straight wanted to chop her head off.But now, my wish is only to smother her a little bit in her sleep—just a little bit.Progress, right?
The novel takes place in the early 1800s, when magical travel between the different Londons has been severely restricted.
We follow Kell's travels from Grey London to his home, the magical Red London, to the sinister world of White London, ruled by a pair of despot siblings who make Vlad the Impaler look like a nice guy.
The idea of four separate Londons is fascinating, and like all the best fantasies, this novel makes its system of magic seem absolutely plausible.
I wrote this book, so I'm probably biased. Since it's early, and the full jacket copy isn't out, here's a list of things in ADSOM: –Magic–Cross-dressing thieves–(Aspiring) pirates–Londons (plural)–Sadistic kings (and queens)–A royal who is equal parts Prince Harry and Jack Harkness–More magic (blood magic, elemental magic, bad magic, etc. etc.)–Epic magicky fights scenes–Angst!–And coats with more than two sides
I'm so glad I decided to re-read this before carrying on with the trilogy! There were SO many things I had forgotten. Can't wait to get to book two! V.E. Schwab does it again! It amazes me how she continues to get better and better with each book she puts out into the world. I need the sequel ASAP.
4.5 solid
“As Travars,” he said. Travel.   And oh boy, I did travel. I was covered in smoke, I tasted metal, I smelled roses, I wore a bizarre coat and I dreamed under a pale sky. But unfortunately, I did not feel.A Darker Shade of Magic had great potential. The world V.E. Schwab created is fascinating, full of magic and blood. There is Kell, an Antari, a blood magician who can travel between parallel universes, and Lila, a street thief who wants to become a pirate and experience great adventures, and w
But unfortunately, I did not feel.A Darker Shade of Magic had great potential.
There is Kell, an Antari, a blood magician who can travel between parallel universes, and Lila, a street thief who wants to become a pirate and experience great adventures, and when their fates interwine, they are the only ones who can save all three Londons from the tainted magic that destroyed the forth.
Her characters like White London, dangerous yet somehow pale and faded.
And me, well, I'm Grey London, magicless in the surface but waiting for the magic I know it exists to ignite.
RE-READ UPDATE: So, in a startling turn of events, this book is even more insufferably perfect the second time round and I'm so in love with it I frequently forget WHAT AIR IS. I love Kell. I love his frown. I love his love for his brother. I love his smol fragile beginnings of a relationship with Lila. I love his bloody magic. I love his dark side.I LOVE THIS BOOK AND THIS WORLD AND THESE CHARACTERS SO MUCH IT HURTS JUST A LTITLE WHICH CAN BE TRANSLATED A LOT.Wow. I may need to go lie down or
I love his dark side.I LOVE THIS BOOK AND THIS WORLD AND THESE CHARACTERS SO MUCH IT HURTS JUST A LTITLE WHICH CAN BE TRANSLATED A LOT.Wow. I may need to go lie down or else faceplant into A Gathering of Shadows for the second time.
I love how basically the ENTIRE book is because he made a stupid mistake...so he's a gorgeous little darling, but at the same time immensely flawed.• Lila, of course, is my hero.
(hide spoiler)]...also I feel like I read somewhere that there was no romance in this book?
I sort of flew through this book.Or rather, I listened to the audiobook extremely quickly.
I found the story interesting at first but it rapidly lost steam for me...
They didn't feel like new characters to me at all.
The narrator does wacky, over-the-top accents that lessened my enjoyment of the book and took away from the story.
(Victoria even told me she didn't like that about the audiobook.
That's a sign that it's PRETTY BAD.)All of that being said, I didn't hate the book, so I feel like 3 stars is a good rating to represent how I feel.
That’s the same feeling I got from this book.Further, I felt like there was a lot of pandering going on here.
(view spoiler)[I think it’s pretty clear that Lila is an Antari because she’s missing an eye (that probably would have been black like Kell’s) and there are strong hints that she has magic inside her, plus she can also travel worlds).
There’s really no explanation as to why there are at least 4 different (overlapping) universes here other than the need for Kell to jump between them because of some quasi-political reasons.All in all, it’s interesting concept that was dryly executed with borrowed characters and buzz that will make you expect more than this book actually has to offer.
Reviewed by: Rabid Reads4.5 starsA DARKER SHADE OF MAGIC is one of those books that I needed to reflect upon before reviewing.As far as I can tell this happens to me for one of two reasons:1.
As for world-building, take the things you think you know about magic systems and toss them out the window.When I first learned that one of the rulers of Red London had a special talent for controlling the will of others, I was like, "Well, that sucks," and when Kell walked up the fortress steps that were guarded by ten soldiers who were indeed controlled, I thought, "That is such a waste of power.
*Upon a reread, my passion for this book stands. I love it so much. I can't believe I actually get to move on to book 2 this time. I JUST LOVE IT. My thoughts: "Now, think critically. There were one or two things you maybe didn't love quite as much as everything else. A 4.5 accurately sums up your feelings and shows you didn't think the book was absolutely perfect."My actions: *RUNS DOWN THE STREET SCREAMING "5 STARS OF PERFECTION" AT ANYONE WHO WILL LISTEN*
This is an unpopular opinion, if you’re easily offended, please don’t read this review.Okay, 3 stars is still a good rating but I think rating aDSoM 3 stars on Goodreads is like I’m an E.T who arrives in London.
(Endless arrow pinned me to a wall.)Don’t get me wrong, I never said I hated the Six of Crows duology or this book, it disappointed me but I actually think both series is still good to read.
That’s the other main problem with ADSoM, I’m so detached from the story and the characters that I honestly don’t care about any of them if they died or not.
Schwab is truly a master when it comes to crafting multidimensional, well rounded, and flawed characters.
Kell deserves love and happiness.
And Lila.
Lila Bard is my new queen.
This was truly one of the most realistic fantasy worlds I've ever read about.
The world was complex and intricate, but just grounded enough that the concept of 4 parallel London's is something I can truly conceptualize.
It was fast-paced and action-packed where it needed to be and still took its time to develop the world and characters completely.
Needless to say, I loved it.
“I'm not going to die," she said. "Not till I've seen it.""Seen what?"Her smile widened. "Everything.”  Kell - one of the last Antari - is playing a dangerous game. Being an Antari, he travels between worlds. He knows of four worlds and all four of them have one, conveniently overlapping city: London. Grey London  - Magicless, technology driven. Red London  - Magic is considered a gift and is practiced with careful determination White London  - Magic is cruel, often needs to be stolen and locke
All magic, artifacts and people from Black London is banned from the other worlds.Kell frequently travels in and out of the Londons - passing along correspondence, adventuring and smuggling artifacts (that last bit is hugely illegal).
A bit buzzed and confused, he travels between worlds only to discover that the stone is actually a part of Black London.By smuggling the stone, Kell committed treason against the crown of Red London (his adopted family) but more importantly, the black stone contains remnants of that world's magic - seduction and hunger.Delilah "Lila" Bard lives in Grey London (not that she knows it).
The plot of this book seems like any other plot with evil magic on the loose and then we have a hero who has to save the world from bad people *cough* FUCKING HOLLAND AND THE FUCK FACE DANE TWINS* who want to misuse the magic, but Schwab has a way of weaving this plot into something entirely new and thrilling once more for me.
I WANT LILA AND KELL TO HAVE SOME SWEATY SEX OKAY BYE.-This book has a captivating plot, characters that will make your heart ache and villains that you'll want to fucking murder so bad.
I want to adopt Kell as my new son and go cut some bitches with Lila Bard.
I don’t know what I can say that hasn’t been said before.
Every page is magic and every scene has a purpose.
The characters bring life into this book.
The magic system and the writing style is unique and a breath of fresh air.
VE Schwab’s writing style truly shines through and I loved every moment of this.
Reading this book feels like stumbling into something wholly new and familiar at the same time.
Reading this was an adventure with magic and drama.
Reading this felt like taking on this world, (and other worlds), it was such a fun experience.
“A life worth having is a life worth taking.”Wow. I'm stunned and I'm in awe.Incredible world-building, beautiful language and an intruiging plot make this 5 out of 5 stars.
It's the kind of book you want to keep reading and at the same time to never end.This is one of the best examples of world-building there is.
A world (or better: four worlds) so complex and so big, needs a skilled writer to make it feel real.
Schwab mastered that skill and made ADSOM far from one-dimensional.
There is so much to see, so much to feel, so much to find out.
“I apologize for anything I might have done. I was not myself.”“I apologize for shooting you in the leg,” said Lila. “I was myself entirely.”   Actual Rating: 4 1/2 Stars.  So you may notice this book is kind of polarizing within the adult sff community; a little bit And for me personally it is.... such a fave. I keep returning to this world and these characters and I doubt I’ll ever stop.For the approximately five people who don’t know, A Darker Shade of Magic is about a world with four paral
The characters don't even have a quest until around page 200, and it makes the entire book feel just a bit messy.
Like, it’s killed both of the series enders I’ve read by her for me personally, and this is coming from the bitch who has five starred every single other book I’ve read by her.
And then we got to the ending and I was screaming in agony at the thought of these characters dying, and I was like "oh shit" and realized how much I love Kell and Lila and Rhy and how much I care about their relationships.
so i did queen schwab the honour of entering and experiencing her world of many londons.okay, one thing that i have come to realise is that schwab is a grower, not a shower, as it takes me quite some time before i feel settled within her stories.
even though most of the time i had no idea where the story/series was going (and i still dont because this could have worked as a standalone), i would be lying if i said i wasnt desperate to find out.
Magic was a living thing—that, everyone knew—but to Kell it felt like more, like a friend, like family.
I went into this book not knowing much about the plot except that it involved magic and that everyone seemed to love it.
A Darker Shade of Magic has amazingly complex characters (among my favorites: Prince Rhy, Lila Bard, and of course Kell) they made it impossible to put the book down.
I felt extremely relieved when Lila and Kell killed both of the twins.
The chemistry between Lila and Kell felt so real.“How did you know?” she asked, looking down at the rubble of the queen.
When Lila, a young thief and aspiring pirate, is drawn into the middle of his adventure, Kell must learn that the boundaries between good and evil magic aren't as defined as he once thought they were, and he must straddles those boundaries to right what has been made wrong.---This book was my first ever Schwab read, and I went into it a little bit apprehensive, because she is so widely loved that I wondered if this series would live up to the expectations I had for it.
So... I finally finished this book. I say finally because it took me a lot to get through - and into- it, and I'm not entirely satisfied with what I read.I'm a huge Victoria Schwab's fan, she's both an amazing author and a really kind person that I'd spend days worshiping. Vicious is one of my favorite books of all time and her writing is very original. Yet this book... I can't tell you if I loved it or not, if maybe I should try and reread it in another moment, because maybe I'm too dumb to get
Vicious is one of my favorite books of all time and her writing is very original.
The magic system is probably the thing I liked the most, it added that dark atmosphere I always expect in one of VS's books.
The plot is good, I love London and the way its portrayed, but I had trouble following the writing at times.
I can see a lot of her writing in dynamic scenes and I appreciate the author's talent.
Overall, this is a good book, and I'm probably going to continue with the trilogy when I have some time.
Update: 5 starsWho was I kidding OF COURSE THIS WAS A 5 STAR READ. I can't stop thinking about it and I love it so much. 4.5 stars!!!!!I ALREADY KNOW THIS SERIES WILL BECOME AN ALL TIME FAVE.
I liked how the characters were introduced as well as how the Londons were shown.
I was pleased to see how advanced magic mimics technology in Red London, for I feel that this is an aspect that is often neglected in stories of worlds where magic exists and is exploited as commonplace.
Given the ruthless nature of Kell's antagonists, the story does not flinch from some very dark violence.
All good points in my estimation.Quibbles: This book is part of a longer series.
At one point in the story, the characters have a sanctuary and an ally that I wished had been introduced sooner.
This had everything I ever need in a fantasy novel.- Intricate yet understandable magic system- Original world building- Little to no romance- Solid evil villains- Fantastic characters with humour- Addictive storylineGuys I absolutely adored this, and how has it taken me this long to read?Writing this, I cannot think of even 1 think I disliked.
Kell is an Antari someone with magic powers, able to travel between the 4 Londons.
This was my first Schwab book, but it absolutely will not be my last!
Roll on book 2!
I kind of feel like maybe the first book was just a set-up, and now that the world building is done, this series (trilogy?) is gonna take off!Because that happens, right?
My point is that I can see why so many of my friends loved this, and I don't want anyone to mistake a 3.5 rating as something bad.I don't understand why anyone would think that to start with, but...there's always one.*eyeballs crowd*So the gist of the story is that this wizardish (Traveler) character named Kell is one of the 2 people alive who has the ability to move between worlds.
So, the first time I tried to read this book, I quit. I just could not get into it. Maybe it was all the different London talk? I recently read This Savage Song and loved it, so I wanted to give this another shot. Normally, I don't change my mind about a book, but I did here!I loved the characters!!! Kell! Lila! Especially Lila, because she puts the A in awesome!!! Plus the freaking magic was a-a-mazing! Full review on my blog https://literarydust.wordpress.com/20...
From the unique take on multidimensional Londons, to Lila's unrelenting badassery; the nail-biting action sequences, to Kell's rather endearing personality (and let's not forget his legendary coat here), it all surmounts to the making of a very promising new fantasy series!But, like all books, A Darker Shade of Magic isn't free of its own set of faults here and there.
It goes without saying that Miss Schwab is a superb writer, but there were moments scattered throughout the book that felt like they were dragged on a tad longer than I liked– I'm especially talking about the scenes involving all those temporary side characters here.
Words... I need to find words...OK, I'm trying to write review for this *fantastic* book again...I loved this. Immensely.  Best opening chapter   that I could recall reading which includes Kell's JACKET. That thing deserved a mention since it was truly a piece of art in and of itself. Glorious world: imaginative, expansive yet still 'contained' and that was a splendid thing.There's a sort of calmness in her writing style that I just absolutely adored. I don't think I can put it into words why, o
Words... I need to find words...OK, I'm trying to write review for this *fantastic* book again...I loved this. Immensely. 
  Best opening chapter
  that I could recall reading which includes Kell's JACKET. That thing deserved a mention since it was truly a piece of art in and of itself. Glorious world: imaginative, expansive yet still 'contained' and that was a splendid thing.There's a sort of calmness in her writing style that I just absolutely adored. I don't think I can put it into words why, only to express how much I love reading the story she crafted.
