https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/306235.The_Professional_Chef
The Professional Chef is the Culinary Institute of America's textbook and, as such, is an excellent basic instructional cookbook/reference book on many "standard" recipes and basic cooking techniques.
It is aimed at a professional pracitioner, though, so all the recipes are for ten portions.
You will have to scale to use the recipes for fewer people.
I haven't had any trouble scaling recipes down for 2 to 4 people.
The CIA also publishes a smaller, cheaper version aimed at the home cook, which some may find less daunting.
If you're at all serious about cooking, though, this is an invaluable resource.
The thing about this book is it is an excellent source for factual and scientific information about the business of cooking, the chemistry of cooking, and the business of keeping a kitchen running in a sanitary way. The problem is that its not a cookbook for amateurs. Everything is in metric, most of it in grams. Without a proper kitchen scale or an aggressive interest in converting it, you're going to find this a confusing or discouraging source.
If you were truly serious about becoming a great cook and could only have one book in your kitchen, this would be it. It really is geared toward professional chefs, however, so many of its recipes call for impractical ingredients like demi-glace. In a home kitchen this can be a real ball-ache.
One of my favorite library books since I can't justify buying this book yet. An essential resource and so informative. I learned so much just flipping through this book and picking random sections to read. My pan sauces have certainly improved since I first checked this out!
Very good book every chef should have one.
I WANT TO KNOW LITTLE MORE ABOUT COOK.
Basic book for culinary student
This is basically the Textbook used by the CIA. It is oriented toward the professional and the recipes reflect this.
This book is true to the title. I'd recommend it highly for people going into cooking but for a person who just wants to learn how to cook this has a bit too much unnecessary content. The chapter on running a business or the pictures of all the different types of veggies jump out as examples. I know they are trying to be complete, but if a professional chef needs a picture to recognize a turnip...
It overviews the basic techniques used by professional chefs, as well as common equipment and ingredients.
The pictures themselves are mostly good, with the exception of the photos of diced vegetables, which are useless because they are not scaled to actual size.
There is an entire section on world cuisines, which is good, but it would have been better to integrate this into the recipes themselves.
Finally, the organization seemed a little awkward due to the way that related techniques and recipes are presented in different locations in the text.
Overall, this is a satisifactory textbook, and a potentially useful reference manual for the home chef.
This book has an ultimate recipe for potato soufflé that has yet to be found on the internet nor google books. I actually improvised from said recipe and made a totally original piece. The recipe supplied major components that can be instilled to the cooking technique dictionary (contained in thy memory) which can be implemented into original dishes. Thus, a professional chef without the degree. :)This book presents some interesting tools that enable new methods and 'up' presentation points.Techniques in this book are worthwhile
I purchased this book for my ex-boyfriend and spent some time thumbing through it before I gave it to him. I was amazed. He loved it. But he has aspirations towards becoming a professional chef. For me, a decent cook with a tiny home kitchen, he recommended The Joy of Cooking instead. And he's probably right. But with my own grand aspirations toward becoming a professional domestic goddess, I can't help loving this book.
All the basics are in here whether you're an aspiring home cook or professional chef, with step by step instruction, visual aides, and definitions. Concepts from food cost to forcemeats are treated with language that progressively starts with basic terminology to more "chef" lingo as the topics increase in precision and difficulty. Highly recommend. It will become your go-to tome for all things culinary.
I've always wanted to know the proper techniques, how I'm supposed to do things. A quick glance, a quick one, it seems I may have found my answer. Today I used it to make a vegetable stock and simple miropoix, done and done. Better still, very few vegetables left in fridge to go bad. My point, most books give you an exact recipe-though this one has though too, it also provides guidelines so you can go at will; with what you have. Helpful
A good resource for classic, mostly scaleable recipies for the home cook or use to improve upon your understanding of technique before attempting other recipies. One of my favorite go-to books (particularly for pastry cream). See also the CIA chocolate book for blow your mind accessibility to world class confectionary.
A must have in your kitchen, even if you just fiddle around from time to time. After I read here and there (its a huge book) I finally found out how to make really great scrambled eggs...how to make a base beschamel sauce for anything! I learned how to cut up a fryer and now I keep my knives sharpened.
This is basically the cookbook for the Culinary Institute of America. If you have the fortitude to wade through it, you will learn a huge amount about cooking, chemistry, presentation, technique. You will also probably develop very strong arm and back muscles lifting it. I kid you not, the thing is massive. Unless you're a serious culinary student, it's probably overkill.
this book I really recommended to all people that want to be a professional chef. The basic foundation is very strong.most of dishes that i made from this book could make people to say "very delicious, more and more! superb"must have!!
I can't recommend this book highly enough. Don't let the thickness intimidate you, you'll you have such a good time reading it you hardly notice. Wether you an apprentice chef, seasoned vet or just someone who love to cook you'll get something out of the professional chef.
The book contained exclusive food history and general information regarding measurements for inventory and set-ups, business, food storage safety, recipes, food preparation, kitchen tools, etc. I loved it!
Fundamental knowledge to cook like a chef, this book I used from time to time for my kitchen's check and balance. From pastry, bread baking, sauteing chicken, vegetables, making a salad, preparing chicken stock and many more.
It is what it says it is - it is for the "professional" chef. Being a home cook myself I find some of the techniques and recipes useless. But, I keep it handy as a supplemental source when I'm looking up different recipes for one dish just to check how they are all doing them.
An excellent kitchen bible for anyone serious about cooking. I got this from the library to see if it was worthwhile- it is on the pricey side- but I am quite sure I want my own copy now. (I may see about getting a used copy or an older edition.)
So you think you can cook? If you can't with this guides help, you may not be able to read either. This newest version of the classic 'how-to-cook-everything' is one of the first must have books for chef, cook, or food lover of any and all skills.
This book was used in a cooking class that I took and it will always be used for the rest of my life. It has everything a person will need and the only cookbook and recipe book a person should ever need. This book is the only book in the kitchen.
An absolutely wonderful textbook all about food and its preparation. It has basic recipes for the foundation of just about every dish. No chance I'll read it all any time soon, but as a cook's reference and training manual it can't be beat.
Amazing recipes and great explanation of everything about how to cook and things a chef should know
My best reference cookbook. All the information you need.
This is the text book for the best cooking school in the country, and arguably the world.
Worth getting the e version / ipad app that has video tutorials etc.sorry print!
