https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/320817.How_to_Have_Confidence_and_Power_in_Dealing_with_People
"The man or woman who realizes that he is "something" not because of what he has done or how good he has been, but by the grace of God in endowing him with a certain innate worth, develops a healthy self-esteem." -Les Giblin, p. 13. I stopped reading there.
I've read this book several times over the years. Along with Dale Carnegie's "How to Win Friends and Influence People" this book is a must-read for anyone that wants to be able to communicate with other people in any meaningful way. I would especially recommend for those of you who tend to be introverted (like myself).
نصحيتي لك هي اقرأ الكتاب بتركيز واهتمام..مع أنه أصلاً يجبرك رغماً عنك على القراءة بتريث ..كتاب أضافني الكثير صراحة..واكتشفت لاحقاً أثناء قراءة هذه الليلةكتاب ابراهيم الفقي رحمه الله قوة التحكم في الذات،تشابه المحتوى بشكل واضح.حياة كريمة
This book is about human relations and every suggestion, technique, and principle discussed was right on.
Admittedly, much of it seems like common sense after hearing it or I have read it before (How to Win Friends and Influence People), but most of us need to hear or read something a minimum of 6 times before it starts to become a daily practice, so I enjoyed the unique spin the book had.And one thing I can positively state, is that 99.9% of the people I interact with don't use the techniques discussed in this book, but if they did - they would have much more influence on me and I would like them much more.
Sage advice for getting along with people The world has changed so dramatically over the past half-century that many advice books from so long ago are no longer relevant, but Les Giblin’s relationship-oriented work seems likely to endure forever.
The ideals he espoused in 1956 still represent the bedrock fundamentals for getting the most depth and satisfaction from your interpersonal connections.
You’ll be impressed with Giblin’s grasp of human nature.
What’s more, his advice is applicable in all areas of life.
He is refreshingly upbeat and unfailingly positive.
He clearly believes in humanity’s inherent goodness.
getAbstract recommends his warm, sage counsel.
How to Have Confidence and Power in Dealing with People Review by Vanga Srikanth..About the AuthorOne of the pioneers of the personal development industry, Les Giblin was born in 1912 in Cedar Rapids, Iowa.
Talking lessons from his sales career, Giblin penned his classic Skill With People in 1968 and began conducting thousands of seminars for companies and associations including Mobil, General Electric, Johnson & Johnson, Caterpillar, etc.Transcending generations, Les Giblin's timeless message of making skill with people the essential ability in your life takes on new meaning in today's world of impersonal communication.Make the most of your personal connections as taught by the master of people and sales skills.
How to Have Confidence and Power in Dealing with People Review by Vanga Srikanth:Great book!I am a shy person naturally, so this book really helped me.
I talked myself out of a speeding ticket after reading this book. 5 stars in my opinion.
الكتاب سيعرفك على الطبيعة الانسانية فالخجول مثلا يحاول مسايرة الاخرين وهو بذلك يقوم يايذاء نفسه وفي المقابل المغرور يحاول فرض نفسه عليهم وكلاهما يفتقدان الى الثقة بالنفس الاول ينسحب والثاني يحاول تعزيز ثقته عبر نفش ريشه وادعاء ما ليس فيه.
بعد قراءة الكتاب انتبهت لامور لم الاحظها من قبل مثلا في بعض الاحيان اقلل من شائني مراعاة لمشاعر الاخرين وفي المقابل اعامل من طرفهم على اني قليلة شان من المخطئ انا فهم يفعلون ذلك بدون وعي.
اذا اردت ان تكون ناجحا في علاقاتك مع الاخرين عوض كلمة "انا " ب "انت" مثلا في شركة عوض ان تفرض قرارك على العمال "انا اقرر....." حاول ان تمنح لهم فرصة التعبير عن افكارهم وهم سيتوصلون الى نفس القرار الذي كنت ستتخذه لكنهم سيكونون اكثر تعاوننا.
كتاب رائع جداً جداً جداًتعلمت منه العديد من الأمور في العلاقات الانسانية استفدت منه كثيرا ، كونه متصل بمجال دراستي ايضاويمكن تطبيق ماجاء فيه بسهولة جدااسلوب الكاتب جميل وممتع ويسرد النصائح والقصص بشكل جذابانصح الجميع بقرائته :)
More than five years ago,Les Giblin first described how mastering the basic principles of human behavior could ensure success for business people, and just about anyone else.
“How to have confidence and power in dealing with people” is a truly practical way to gain self confidence power in your personal, business, and social relationships from little tricks of body language that we rarely notice in ourselves but yet notice almost always in others, but its to develop self belief.
This is a truly good book if you are wanting to know how to better empower yourself with more of these great key functions of how to be more confident with people.
When I saw the book was first written in 1956, I wasn't sure if it would be relevant in today's society. I was pleasantly surprised, the format of the book was easy to understand and follow. A few quotes from the book:"A starved ego is a mean ego"LS/MFT = Low esteem means friction and troubleSatisfy another person's ego for self-esteem and he will automatically become more friendly and likeable
This book had been sitting on my bookshelf for years and I was expecting it to be an over the top sales book so had put off reading it, but I was so wrong and now wish I had read it years ago. This is a superb book that has lots of great advice, good examples and is well written. I also really appreciate the short recap that each section has at the end summarising the key points.
No matter how great or horrible you are in dealing with people, this book has great insight into how the other person is wired and how you can help in growing teams of people, resolving conflict and become an expert in working with people!
الكتاب يستحق القراءة أكثر من مرة، هو لا يتحدث فعلاً عن كيفية التعامل بثقه وقوة بقدر تركيزه على أخطائنا التي نرتكبها بحق الآخرين في معاملاتنا وأحاديثنا اليومية من غير أن نشعر
This book helped me tremendously at a point in my life when I lacked confidence in social/work situations. It's an oldie but a goodie.
One of the best books on people skills out there. Definitely one to read more than once. Recommended for any manager, business owner or anyone just looking to grow more confident in dealing with people.
i want to read it but how ? im really want it ?
Interesting concepts. I will have to see if I can put them to work at work.
كتاب ممتع جداً .. تكتشف معه كيف يفكر الناس و ماذا يريدون وكيف تقدم لهم ذلك لتكسب محبتهم و إحترامهم
اكثر من راااائع
This is a wonderful book on human psychology and human relations. It contains so many little nuggets of "common sense wisdom" and guidelines for how to deal with people. Most of it can be summed up with the Golden Rule - treat others as you yourself want to be treated.I really liked the summary sections at the end of each chapter, which can serve as a great list of guidelines for dealing with people.
I thought the title sounded hokey and contrived, but I sure was wrong! This is a must read for everyone who deals with people and unless you're a hermit, that means you. The relationship principles are very easy to apply and the fun thing is you can start using them right away. It's a lot of fun to see an immediate difference when you're out and about interacting with co-workers, your server at a restaurant, your parole officer, your mom, even your wife! Knowledge is power.
I'm glad that Giblin kept this short, concise and most importantly, relevant - these "how to deal with people" books can get tedious and repetitive. This was more like an extended version of the classic "How To Win Friends and Influence People". There's a lot of practical and up-to-date examples of how to use the techniques suggested.
This book was great. It was written a while ago but the principles still apply. Human relations haven't changed as much as we think. People still love to talk and hear about themselves. I have a lot of work to do to have a bit more confidence when talking to people. But, the number one lesson I learned was to let others talk. I need to learn to LISTEN better and more often than I speak.
كتآب في تنمية الذآت يعملك أساليب جميلة في التعامل مع النآس مع إبراز أهم السمآت التي تميز كل شخص على حدى
nice
كتاب يستحق القراءة اكثر من مرة مع تركيز ,اسلوب الكاتب ممتع ورائع وغني بالنصائح في التعامل مع الناس .
من أفضل الكتب في التعامل مع الناس. فتح عيوني على اشياء كثيرة
good
A better way to say if someone is making a mistake, Les Giblin points out, "you are coming in too low." You make a statement on the action or behavior, never blame it on the person.
If you see someone that is doing a good job, you say something along the lines of how their contribution helped the company.
Thank you for such a good job." When complimenting others, do not say "You are hot," it may sound insincere and has been said many times.
Say something like "you have beautiful hair," an attribute of the person.
Les Giblin's points make sense.
