https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6468870-who-goes-there
This is a old-fashioned SF monsters-from-space horror story about a malevolent, incredibly dangerous space alien that terrorizes an isolated scientist's camp in Antarctica.
One deep-frozen alien is outside of the ship; it looks like there are a few more inside.
And now something's on the loose and no one is quite sure what it is or how to deal with it.The claustrophobic feel of the isolated camp, the cold and ice everywhere, and not knowing which of your friends and colleagues have been taken over by the alien (writhing tentacles alert!), thinking you're going to be next...
Three mad hate-filled eyes blazed up with a living fire, bright as fresh-spilled blood, from a face ringed with a writhing, loathsome nest of worms, blue, mobile worms that crawled where hair should grow -""The last I saw the split skull was oozing green goo, like a squashed caterpillar...wandering around with a split skull and brain oozing out...has anybody seen it coming over here?...About four feet tall - three red eyes - brains oozing out?" (presumably this last was in case anyone had spotted a different scary alien and mistook it for the first one...)The fact that the story has been filmed several times shows that there is a good basic storyline; material for a horror film.
"The huge blowtorch McReady had brought coughed solemnly. Abruptly it rumbled disapproval throatily. Then it laughed gurglingly. . ."Yikes.
The premise behind Howard Hawks' 1951 film "The Thing From Another World" -- one of my all time favorite films (not the colorized travesty).However, if I had read this novella first, I probably would've hated it.
The film does not follow the story very closely but it does keep the skeleton of the story.
This is one of these classic premises.
A group of people isolated and trapped with a killer.
Yet, they don't know who the killer is!
They can't trust each other, yet they have to trust each other to survive.
I listened to this in one afternoon and loved it.
State of the art sci-fi horror.

3.5*An Antarctic research crew finds unfriendly alien, kills it only to find it can't really be killed.I love the movie The Thing, a fantastic sci fi horror that oozed paranoia and gore. This just didn't live up to the movie. It was still an interesting read but I didn't get any closure at the end, the flow of the book felt stilted and dialogue forced. There was also too many characters to concentrate on in such a short read and it got a bit confusing trying to keep everyone straight.Enjoyable enough especially nearer the end but overall disappointing.
Physicists or biologists would probably find some fault with the technical details in this novella, but it reads as quite a plausible, relatively "hard" SF story given that the premise is a shapeshifting alien being thawed after spending 20 million years frozen in Antarctica.This novella is better known, of course, by the movie based on it, John Carpenter's The Thing, which was a remake of 1951's The Thing from Another World.Characterization is sparse, as is typical of 1930s sci-fi.
Okay, maybe to some, this is an obscure short story from an obscure writer better known for thriller science fiction than long involved novels.
This is suitable for anyone able to read and comprehend the words, there is some violence and people get hurt in creative ways, but, generally, there is nothing here so shocking we need to protect anyone from it.
It gets five stars from me, rather than four, because I loved that first movie so much, how ever much it may or may not have strayed from the original story.
A: We found an unknown monster frozen in ice for 20 million years.B: Let's defrost it!A: Wouldn't the thing come to life or some unknown pathogen wipe out us all?B: Nah, worked for the snakes.C: Not on my kitchen table!A: Okay.*monster comes to life and rampages*B: Hit it with human-immune rabbit blood!A: AAARGH! *dies*C: How do you know that the blood is a good indicator if one of us is a monster?B: I'm a scientist, it will work.C: Isn't assuming things about alien life what got us into this mess in the first place?*everyone dies*
Il classico fanta-horror del '38 che ha ispirato l'omonimo capolavoro cinematografico di John Carpenter, a sua volta remake de "La cosa da un altro mondo" del '51, ed il prequel (pessimo) del 2011, puó non essere invecchiato benissimo, ma rimane un gran bel racconto "lovecraftiano": il gruppo di scenziati in antartide le cui menti razionali si trovano ad affontare l'alieno e l'ignoto mi ha ricordato parecchio "Alle montagne della follia" del Solitario di Providence...
Loved this. A very well done sci-fi/horror novella that definitely stands the test of time. Love the Carpenter movie too. The 2011 movie version sucked.
I enjoy reading a classic SiFi story when I can to see how some of the themes and concepts of the genre got started and how some of the older writers used, and in many cases invented them. I am always impressed with these early stories when I think of the time they were written in and how they must have seemed so fresh and new to a reader of that era. This was an interesting read because the story focuses really more on the people trapped with the monster rather than the monster itself. Nice read overall. recommended
(And let's be honest, this is what I loved about this story idea in the first place).
Thrilled to say not only does this hold up, but I'm baffled that an idea like this could have been written almost 80 years ago.
For a short story it's incredibly developed, and feels like just a part of a much greater whole.
But its the sense of paranoia and dread, that subtle tickle along the back of your spine, that makes this story what it is (and is why it's been translated to the screen so many times).
In fact the concept and settings have been adopted and explored so many times (with certain improvisation here and there) over the last 8 decades that unfortunately the story has lost its charm quite a bit.A group of scientists discover an alien spaceship frozen in Antarctica, where it crashed twenty million years ago.
They try to recover it but unfortunately the ship gets destroyed in the process, though they recover an alien body.
The thing escapes but the crew discovers and kills it.
They have no idea as to which one of them and how many of them are alien in disguise.The events after that are mysterious and also the climax lives up to expectations.
Part of that is due to the strong influence of the two movie adaptations of the work, both known as "The Thing." The other is that every science-fiction or fantasy series worth its salt has done its own variation on the basic theme--who is the real person and who is the "monster" or "alien." And while it may take a moment or two to put aside all the various adaptations we've seen over the years and cast your mind back to a time before that particular aspect of the sci-fi genre was so pervasive, what you'll find with "Who Goes There?" is a compelling, fascinating and tense novella from one of the more overlooked early masters of the genre.The premise is very close to what we've seen in the famous John Carpenter version and the first season "X-Files" episode: a crew finds an alien trapped in ice in the Antarctic and thaws it out.
"No thing made by intelligent beings can tangle with the dead immensity of a planet's natural forces and survive."I didn't know this was a novel before I watched the movie.
However, I do know and I've read it and I rather enjoyed it.
37 men isolated on Antarctica with a shape-shifting alien.
And for these men to battle something they don't know a thing about, well, it's interesting.
However, it could have used a little more focus on the psychological strains these men must be under.
Still, a good read, but I prefer the movie.
Five stars for a story ahead of its time. Writing quality?... there are enough adverbs to sink a battleship. Poor writing typically draws harsh criticism out of me, but when I consider the multiple themes and ideas packed into this little jewel of a story, and put it into the context of its time, it is superb.
Creo que la sensación general tras leer esto se puede resumir así: "The f**k did I just read???"
is the tale of a research group discovering a foreign “thing” which has been frozen in an ice block.
I absolutely loved Cambell’s eerie choice of words, the frozen wasteland setting of Antarctica, the intelligent and realistic characters, and of course the concept of a monster so horrifying, it can only be described as- THE THING!Format: I listened to this through Audiobook and the narrator (Steve Cooper) did an excellent job of differentiating the characters through diverse voice impressions.
Nolan (director Logan’s Run) narrates his own introduction where he gives a short history of the book and its vast influence on the sci-fi book/movie genre.
A team of Antarctic scientists find a UFO under the ice...and a frozen specimen, twenty million years old, of an alien race...This is definitely from the 1930s.
Mankind is smarter and tougher than the alien they thaw out.
The ending is a reassuring one.
Grah!
Mankind!
Grah grah grah!
I feel like the Carpenter film version is the story as it should have been.
You have to keep doing the tests...you have to think up new tests to work around the ability of intelligent beings to learn.
You can't rely on things working the same way forever..."There," Carpenter said.
This a near perfect example of classic pulp-era science fiction.
One-part horror, one-part science and one-part social commentary.
The premise is surprisingly simple, and the cultural ramifications are terrifying, it's a pity that Campbell made some rather silly blunders in the last couple chapters that undermine the science in the story.
Another really fascinating aspect of the novella, that always gets me is the social commentary on how easily a group of people imploded when faced with raising paranoia which has been validated by genuine xenophobia.
This was of topical interest when the story was first published in 1938, and is still true today.
It is indeed worth your time, and there are some flaws in it.
I won't belabor these flaws but will instead point out one: the characters "speech" at each other rather than speak with each other.
And the speeches they direct at one another do begin to take on a disconcerting uniformity.
I was surprised at how similar the 1982 film THE THING was to this tale.
Granted, I knew it was "inspired" by the tale, but John Carpenter and company really took pains to utilize all that made the novella so good.
Not perfect, but certainly worth your time.
Excellent story. I've wanted to read this for years! Such a cool and unique concept especially for 1938! This has turned into an iconic story and become entrenched in pop culture because of the film adaptations but the story itself is terrific in its own right. A quick paced, sci-fi/horror lover's dream that gives us just enough monster action to satisfy and just enough science to explain. I loved it. The creature descriptions are neat and the characters are good enough. For the time it was written, I'd say it's amazing.
Surprisingly dull and boring, giving it has such a nice premise that has already been worked brilliantly by some other people. In all honesty, this is just a seriously bad novella with a few flat characters that, in the end, are all one and the same and some awkward, uninspiring prose.
Listened to here https://www.youtube.com/user/FrenchEd...Narration 5 stars, story 4 stars.It's quite difficult to listen to the story that inspired a movie I've watched, ooohh, lots of times.
And even harder not to picture the actors as the main characters.
Fortunately, the 1981 version and the 2011 version both have some very manly, non-metrosexual actors who I'd love to have save my skinny white arse from the mutating abomination, then we could, you know, snuggle up for warmth after we've used all the fuel to burn the thing back to the hell from whence it came.
But I digress, sorry, that picture's very distracting.
Who Goes There? Is aCreepy, Sci Fi, Horror Story.Watched the 1951 film,The Thing from another World.Saw in the credits that it was based on this book.So of course, had to give it a listen.Glad I did.Narrator Edward E. French does a nice job.Clean Story.
When a group of scientific researchers discover a spaceship buried in the ice of Antarctica, they thaw its alien pilot for study, only to unleash a shape-shifting terror that makes each of them suspect as a deadly enemy - and all of them responsible for ending the threat before it flees the isolated base.
This is the novella by the legendary science fiction editor John W.
Herrliche Kurzfassung:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ds4fq...
Even those who knew it was original (it was one of the first works of science fiction, it invented the genre of planetary romance as far as I know, and was a formative work for many pioneers in science fiction and fantasy), they felt just underwhelmed by what they saw on screen, that the film didn’t match their expectations, perhaps built up over years or decades or measured against how they imagined the source material would be portrayed.
I haven’t read a lot of science fiction from the time period (the novella was published in August 1938) and I don’t think I have a full appreciation of how original a story idea or quite how formative it was to the genre as a whole.
