https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1057231.Samskara
In all, there are 16 major Samskaras  that have been recognized of which how many are actively observed in today’s Indian society is a matter of speculation but the ones associated with birth and death are performed diligently because apart from being a part of religious practice, they are also considered as a right of the new born and the dead.
Every dead person deserves a respectable exit from this world irrespective of the man made notions he’s tied with namely religion, caste, creed, gender et al and this very perspective act as a catalyst for the progression of this small but powerful novel.A death of a rebel has occurred in an orthodox Brahminical Colony in India circa 1930s and it has given birth to the question: Who will perform his last rites?
Your idea that only men of 'Goodness' can reach salvation, isn't that only a form of hopelessness? Doesn't it mean the disappointment of a human hope, desiring a thing and not getting it? In men of 'Darkness' there's no desire of salvation in the first place. How can such clods feel disappointed by not getting what they don't want? No one can say, 'I'll become a "Man of Goodness"'; one can only say truly 'I am a "Man of Goodness"'. Only such natures crave and hunger for the Lord's grace.  I ca
In such small span of time we have largely overcome centuries long customs, prejudices and superstitions which were once considered imperative to live a good life but are rightly discarded now for being regressive and parochial.
What Ananthamurthy has done is, with this small piece, he has not only systematically mocked many of the traditional and religious prejudices but has cracked that rigid system to the core and carved a path of Samskara for the most righteous man of a proverbial ancient village.
But this crusader not knowing the solution himself, looks for the correct path from the Gods and the Holy books which puts him on a journey that upheavals his life.
what choice will u make if your belief system or faith cannot answer for your daily problem?will u discard your faith and think rationally to solve your problem or will you faithfully return to your holy text in order to find answers for your problems.longer review to come
It is perhaps the best Indian novel in an indigenous language that I have read.
One could bemoan the fact that the characters, except the central one of Praneshacharya, are two dimensional caricatures, but isn't that the condition of an allegory?
The novel is allegorical and it is profound, and was in certain ways meant to be an initiation for the Modern(as against Modernist) Indigenous Indian Novel.
And it is perhaps in the third part of this tale, where Praneshacharya questions his past actions, that the Indian novel too acquires a form, a three-dimensionality that it had struggled with earlier.
So wow. Just wow. Words fail.
The novella’s pace is almost electric, as the events that flow from the starting, startling event gather pace and just keep going. Samskara’s story, structure, and masterful use of allegory are mesmerising, and the afterword, as well as the author interview in the Oxford Perennial edition, are incredibly helpful. Glad than a book of this importance in the Indian literary canon is receiving the care it is due.
I liked it a lot, even if I couldn't fully appreciate the tangled webs of Brahminism, the Indian caste system generally, or the many tiers of the Vedic religion.
A Brahmin has died, but he was one who for years had flouted the rules by such acts as eating meat, drinking alcohol, and living with a low-caste woman.
The controversy splits the community, providing part of the story, but the larger narrative is the emotional and spiritual passage of Praneshacharya himself as he metamorphoses from devoted Brahmin to outlaw like Naranappa, the deceased.
The main character's feelings of confusion and alienation were enough to thoroughly upset and disorient me as I was reading it; walking home from work, I got very upset by trash on the sidewalk in front of my home and thought guiltily, this is because I'm neglecting my role as caretaker.
Despite taking place in a place and time very foreign to my experience (an exclusive and strict Brahmin village in 1930s India, as opposed to my life in middle-class urban secular North America), I found this a very universal book, with deep resonance beyond its place and time.
Now I do get that the focal point for the author was decaying brahminism, but I find it sort of morbid that all women characters in the novel are either dismissed by other male characters as dead fish or seen as so "ripe" that a man wouldn't be responsible for acting on his sexual impulse.
The epidemic theme could have been elaborated, but the author plays out the whole tension of the novel through the protagonist's sexuality.
This is why the author passes off stray acts of molestation and indifference to the woman's refusal for sex in the banner of his celebration of sexuality.Other than that, the psychological realism in the novel is quite commendable.
The sub-title of his translation, ‘A Rite for a Dead Man’ , is the most concrete of these many concentric senses that spread through the work.The central theme of the novel is the death of Naranappa and the complications connected with the issue of his burial.
He even invited Muslim friends to the agrahara and openly consumed alcohol and non-vegetarian food so as to insult the other Brahmins.When Naranappa died, his burial became a complicated issue.
So he refused to direct the Brahmins in the issue of the burial.Chandri became desperate and she approached the lower caste people to do the burial.
I might not know the Kannada language, but I am not an alien to the setting - where this story takes place.
Instead of bringing forth a missed out experience, this dry, textbook translation only glares with a lose of eloquence and subtlety, which the modernist U.R. Ananthamurthy might have crafted in the original version.
Read out this sample, “…appearing suddenly like a bear let loose in the middle of a service for Shiva.” I believe every South Indian language has a catchy phrase for this metaphor, in just a couple of words.
Whatever the chuckle and style you feel in the original language is irrevocably lost in this literal dry translation.“;plump fleshy thighs, buttocks, breasts.”Seriously?
his ideas, the controversial responses to his ideas, people's opinions of him, a spectrum of different kinds of comments about him, his life, his work.
I had to read his work and decide for myself what I felt about him and if I needed to have opinions that are so strong.
It asks some of the most intriguing questions about religion, morality and way of living in Southern India.
You, charmed by him to begin with in a very subtle and unobvious manner, are shaken when he's shaken.
It makes the entire narrative linger in your heart in a very non-weighing down manner.
3.75
Well,The thing is: I recently read a Kingly Amis book (nother NYRB, baby) I didn't say anything about.
But I'm feeling reviewer remorse.
So,Ending Up,by Kingsly Amis.
Like, so good.
Like, so funny.
Pretty simple work.
Within this simple construct and 110 pages are great scenes, touching soliloquies, and some gnarly pranks.
Maybe I'll say something about it in my next review.
I got a hard-boiled on deck, some Kirkigard, I'll have to read this Chess Story writer, I'm sure that'll be another nybar.
Yup, these are the struggles.What do you guys think about stuff like this?
But because Narranappa was a "jack" Hindu, the scholarly Praneshacharya is confused by what is the right course to take.This same Praneshacharya, in praying for heavenly guidance in a lonely place, suddenly meets up with Narranappa's widow, the low-caste Chandri, with whom he makes love at the foot of the god's idol.The novel becomes more interesting when Praneshacharya wanders off, not sure of what course he is to take.
He meets up with a lower-caste Hindu named Putta.
At this point, Samskara becomes picaresque, with Putta unwilling to leave his side.It is only in the last third of the book that it became interesting to this Westerner.
The fact that I read both the original and the translation proved to be neat A book can be remembered for different things - the writing, characters, story, setting etc.
The story can also be seen as portraying (and thereby questioning) the brahminical rituals and way of living, the caste system, rural village life.
It pays however to understand the importance of tradition, culture and a way of living that has had the weight of years of practice.
This honesty flies against the face of hypocrisy in the other brahmins and later Praneshacharya who is caught between living two kinds of life.
It's true that reading Indian literature in translation is radically different from Indian literature composed in English and often with a foreign audience in mind. This novel is beautiful and powerful, but also quite hard to comprehend if one hasn't lived in India, I suspect. The nuances and issues that emerge around caste and what it means to be a brahmin are quite complex. That said, it is beautifully rendered by author and translator alike.
A dilemma arises when a man has died and the Brahmin religious rites must be performed – but he has no son and none of the Brahmins want to sully themselves by doing it for him because he was a bad man who had flaunted his sinfulness for a long time.
(Dharma means law, duty, code of conduct, righteousness, and rules.) (To put it crudely, he could plummet from being a highly respected sanyasi to being reborn as an Untouchable, or worse, some kind of despised insect…)However, Samskara is not a simple religious parable.
Praneshacharya has to deal with the consequences of his actions, actions that he believes were not made through a conscious choice.
Would he take the same actions if he had to make the choices consciously ?
What should he do, now that a single action by him has shaken the core of his identity and has made him question all that he has stood for till today ?The book talks about the process of change, of unlearning and relearning and leaves you curious and contemplative by the end of it.
well written, pace slacks sometimes and that's probably because this is a translation. overall, a worthwhile and entertaining read. It felt like watching a macabre cartoon movie - probably like the Triplets of Belleville.
3.5/4 stars, but it just feels so forgettable I gave it 3 stars.Some parts of the book were amazing - existential questioning, the journey of Acharya, the foil of Putta with Acharya, and the ending. Some parts were OK - the supporting characters were fun to read about but were underdeveloped, the women were especially flat and one-dimensional, and the one who wasn't was chased out of the book.Some parts were not good - The flow of the book was stuttered. Some parts felt unnecessary and difficult to get through.
I enjoyed this book. Naranappa an apostate Brahmin dies suddenly. A debate ensues about where and when to bury him. In the mean time a plague goes through the village, and vultures roost on the roofs.
What a beautiful book, and such a vivid demonstration of brahminism and identity. Love how the characters are allegorical and set up to define vivid contrasts. Naranappa and Praneshacharya were memorable characters.
For the Brahmin hero in Ananthamurty's story, the answer is found in the bittersweet reality of form and passion as he gives in to his long caged up lust for a woman, the captivating Chandri.
In an interview the author gave on the thirtieth anniversary of Samskara's publication, the author reveals what many readers had already concluded: Samskara is an allegory, a parable about orthodoxy and privilege that pulls together lurid characters and a farcical conundrum to point up the inevitable end awaiting all orthodoxies, whether social or religious.
In effect, Samskara is the spiritual end of a continuum that finds its terminus in URA's later novel, Bharatipura.
Praneshacharyah is a righteous man, by the standard of his caste and creed, a pious Brahmin who’s religious and moral attainments have gained him wide fame.
Though he turned on his caste, violating constantly the tenants of his faith, still Naranappa was a Brahmin, and before his corpse can be immolated it needs to undergo a series of rituals, which only his fellow Brahmin can perform, the execution of which is at once a moral necessity and itself blasphemous in so far as Naranappa had fouled himself with alcohol and unclean living.
There are no easy answers here, and while the hypocrisies of the Brahmin colony are cruelly skewered, still Praneshacharyah is a fundamentally sympathetic character, struggling to find clarity in a world which refuses it, seeking after righteousness without success.
This book tells the story of a decaying brahmin village that is pulled into a quandary of what to do about a brahmin who died.
This particular brahmin rebelled against the orthodox ways of the village and flouted his indiscretions in the face of the other brahmin.
The Archaya, young head of the brahmin village, agonized over what to do, but without explicit instruction from the books he didn't know what to decide.This quandary, the Archaya's struggle and subsequent fall from grace, critiques and questions strict Hindu beliefs and caste system.
Through this story you definitely get a sense of Hindu practices and Indian culture.
After reading this book, I can fully understand why this book created such a controversy at the time it was released.
I remembered, that Vijay Tendulkar faced a similar acerbic criticism, when he had written, on similar lines against Bhrahmin Orthodoxy in Ghashiram Kotwal.The story exposes the shallow understanding of 'Dharma' of the hypocritical Brahmin society, in great detail.
The central theme of the book is that when societies fail to understand and interpret Dharma, in the context of the time space they live in, they wither away to extinction and are responsible for their downfall.One of those books which is timeless, it contains characters that we can easily identity even in the current day.
When all your lifelong beliefs and principles crumble down around you, what do you do? This novel examines the situation from a respected Brahmin's perspective. The death of Naranappa throws up more challenges to the Great Learned sage Praneshacharya than he ever posed in his rebellious life. Through the turmoil posed by the sudden turn of events in his life, the sage must decide whether to live a life of repentance or to shed all fear and to redeem himself. "The novel ends, but does not conclude."
I read it in a Tamil translation by Sadasivam. A thought-provoking work which depicts the fall of Brahmin society through the death rites of a Brahmin rebel.Some profound questions and unmasking of some hypocrisies make this novel a modern Indian classic.
