https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/525995.Jumanji
What an entertaining story! I first read this as a child, then I watched the movie with Robin Williams and fell in love all over again. But it was in my sophomore year at college when I was taking a course on "Reading in the Elementary School," and had to pull together a portfolio of books, that I chose this Caldecott medal winner. It's very creative and helps teach so many different lessons to children. A must treasure for all children with a great imagination or those who need one! Yes.  About
But it was in my sophomore year at college when I was taking a course on "Reading in the Elementary School," and had to pull together a portfolio of books, that I chose this Caldecott medal winner.
It's very creative and helps teach so many different lessons to children.
A must treasure for all children with a great imagination or those who need one!
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
I write A LOT.
And now I blog A LOT.
Thanks for stopping by.
Many thanks to their original creators.
It's an exciting fantasy, full of surprises, wonder and magic, with two engaging children Peter and Judy, and many magnificent wild animals, threatening and amusing by turn.
Chris Van Allsburg has written a kind of template for this fabulous adventure.
And perhaps the worst part about this picture book is the illustrations.
So yes, we have the bare bones of what emerged in a film as an exciting and imaginative story, about a child's escape from the world into a magical Jungle Adventure board game.
But I wouldn't recommend this picture book to anyone.
Chris Van Allsburg has made other adaptations of his story.
This is another case of I-saw-the-movie-was-there-a-book? and I'm grateful for these little gems.Peter and Judy (brother and sister, unlike the movie version) are two slightly bored children who find a board game outside their house. They bring it in and start playing it, only to have a huge surprise.I highly recommend this for the kids. It has a cool game, dangerous animals and a happy ending. Also, it's short enough that you'll keep their attention until the very end.
This story is filled with imagination, I mean what a great concept.
I will say I saw the movie first.
I enjoy this story and I wonder why he made the art in black and white.
I think making it in hyper color would have really kicked it off and been like Pop, or the original Wizard of Oz where the color makes everything more.
The black and white just didn't fit for me.
I question that choice.This book is exciting.
The kids were engaged and on edge asking what was going to happen.
This book holds up well.
However, I do believe that even if I had not seen the movie, I still would have found the narrative of Jumanji somewhat majorly incomplete and rather sadly lacking in substance, with simply not enough printed information and certainly not really that sense of danger a jungle adventure like the one described in the story and by the illustrations demonstrates or hints at (and while I do appreciate Chris Van Allsburg's illustrations, and enjoy their rich detail, I strongly belive that they would have been much much better and more evocative, more lively, with a bit of colour, but I tend to think that with most of van Allsburg's work, as I find his illustrative style as a whole much too dark and gloomy for my aesthetic tastes).
2 Cuando el libro NO es mejor que la película STARSPop Sugar Reading Challenge 2016 A book from the library.
Como alguien que creció en los 90's la película Jumanji me marco y se convirtió en una de mis favoritas.
Imaginen la película sin ninguna de sus escenas favoritas (como la del cazador, o los murciélagos, el drama con el padre) y sin sus personajes favoritos (No Robin Williams, No policía), eso es este libro.
Y tampoco lo puedo excusar diciendo que es una versión para niños pequeños, porque la verdad tampoco funciona como libro infantil.
It was a bit challenging to rate this classic picture book.
And then there's the underwhelming text; underwhelming (and seemingly incomplete) text compared to the action-fabulous movie adaption featuring Robin Williams - RIP.I greatly enjoyed the original movie, and have watched it numerous times.
not so much.At first, I was leaning toward a three-star Goodreads rating.
It was really hard for me to not compare book to movie.
But then, taking all things into consideration - publication date, creativity, unusual noir concept, and fabulous artwork - I changed my mind.
FOUR **** Children's Award Winning, Book-to-Film, Picture Book Classic **** STARS
My granddaughter and I read this today; we both loved it. Different than the movie, but excellent itself. I think this has become a new favorite for her.
Chris Van Allsburg makes the story intense and exciting at the same time when he makes the animals come to life and terrorize the children.
I like the idea that Chris Van Allsburg uses a child’s fear about games coming to life as a story arc for this story because I enjoy anything that is often surreal and “Jumanji” is certainly a surreal book to read since it involves a game making everything come to life.
“Jumanji” is probably one of Chris Van Allsburg’s best children’s books since it has everything that a child would want in a book- drama, fantasy, thriller, and mystery.
I read this to my great niece this weekend. It was her library book from school. She loved it! She loved the illustrations too! Great fun!
2015 Reading Challenge #03: A book that became a movie.Si ya viste la película y amas Jumanji, no leas este libro. Repito, no leas este libro. No dañes la ilusión.Fin del comunicado.
This book was in my space this morning.... came up in conversationA favorite in our house with my younger daughter especially! So, it's special to me too!!
As far as illustrations go, Jumanji doesn't lag behind any book that previously won the Caldecott Medal.
Chris Van Allsburg's eerie use of shadowing is fantastic, deserving of the highest honor available to picture book illustrators.
My first experience with Jumanji was when my teacher read it to our class in first grade, and the story has stayed with me ever since.
Readers who expect Jumanji to rival the 1995 movie will likely feel let down.
Regardless, Chris Van Allsburg does a spectacular job bringing Jumanji to life in this book.
I mentioned to them that this book was a little different than the other books I've read them, and I asked them to really look at the pictures because they looked so realistic.I began the story and I surprised myself by finding a voice that I hadn't expected.
I found this to be a very interesting and exciting experience since they had been looking at the picture of the lion on top of the piano for the entire time I was reading that page.
This book has immediately gone up to one of my favorites.Original Review:The drawings are beautiful, but the story is really boring.
The second page, where the children leave the house and encounter the board game, the shading is much darker and provides a more ominous feeling that page before Peter and Judy say goodbye to their parents.
Again with the shadowing, we see the page lighten up after the game has been won and Judy and Peter stand before their parents and their guests.
Yet the shading darkens again with the next page as reader foreshadow the fate of Mrs. Budwing's sons when they pick up the game from the park.This surrealistic art works very well with the message of this book.
Definitely nothing like the movie! The author could have easily made an incredible full length book out of this, so I'm not sure why it's this short of a story.
11/1/17 $2.99 for Kindle.
When I found out about the news I decided to request a copy from my local library and the biggest surprise which I highly recommend everyone to read is the 30th Anniversary special because it comes with the audiobook narrated none other than...Jumanji aka the board game that can actually kill you.
At first Peter is apprehensive about the game because it sounds boring but truth be told Jumanji is not your average monopoly.In order to play, each player rolls the dice and will encounter obstacles along the way, the player who is able to reach the end wins the game.
Such a wonderful idea and so full of potential, but I felt that the illustrations didn't match the excitement conveyed by the text.
I'm also wondering, is this meant to be a cautionary tale?
Though it's not a favorite of mine, I can see why this book has been so beloved and I do think it's a great concept.
And it made for a very fun movie--one of the rare cases where I appreciated the movie more than the book.I really enjoyed this interview with Van Allsburg: That said, I can see why this book has been so beloved and I do think it's a great concept.
Loved the book. Not a tremendous fan of the movie due to Robin Williams.
I had no idea this was a book first! Gotta admit, I LOVE LOVE LOVE the film but I’m a little sad that this book wasn’t a part of my childhood. The “childish” writing was a little underwhelming (but understandable) and I can really appreciate the drawings which is why I still gave this such a high rating. Plus, it’s Jumanji.
You know, like the two siblings learn to work together to solve the problems instead of quarrelling and blaming each other, or something like that.The illustrations looked like photographs that had been scanned and treated with some kind of software.
OK, so it's 19th century, but the kids actually do things and learn things about how to get along, how to deal with what comes up, etc.
And we aren't hit in the face with the adults going "oh aren't these kids cuuuuute?" at the end.
I didn't really like this one. And I think it's because I love the movie so much. The story just seemed over-simplified, but the artwork was amazing which is why it definitely won the Caldecott Award! If you haven't read it definitely give it a try and then watch the movie and see how much they changed and adapted the book to fit the big screen.
I like books that end with us knowing what might happen next!
The art makes this book. Gorgeous.
This was simple and quick. There were three messages for children to learn, but I don't feel like the story had a strong impact. The art was more impressive than the text. I enjoyed reading it just to be able to appreciate the film more.
The book and The film adaptation are both set around a Medicaid board game called Jumanji where real elements of the jungle are occur where you are playing.
Through all this the children continue to play, for the instructions said that you should not begun unless you intend to finish.
The story ends with Judy and Peter watching their neighbors, Danny and Walter, leaving the park with the game in their hands, and this two boys never followed instructions.
Team work is another good quality this book shows, for if Peter and Judy did not work together and trust each other, they would not have been able to finish the story.
Jumanji, by Chris Van Allsburg, is a classic fantasy book that engages its readers in a thrilling tale of two children’s action packed jungle adventure while playing the game “Jumanji”.
His diverse use of adjectives builds the setting for the reader while powerful verbs bring actions to life.
The books could serve as a great tool for building vocabulary and discussing synonyms with young readers.
While students can be encouraged to use their imaginations to create the setting and actions in their minds, they can also be asked to consider the role the character’s imaginations play in how the story unraveled.
Fun story with detailed and realistic black and white illustrations. It might be a little scary for younger audiences, but great for older children. Our girls enjoyed the suspense of the story and we really enjoyed reading it together. This book was selected as one of the books for the January 2016- Quarterly Caldecott discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
I haven’t read this book in a long time, and for some reason, I remembered it being much longer and more detailed.
The story actually goes by quite quickly, and I didn’t have the sense this time around of the urgency of the kids’ situation, or of the danger they were in.
The suspense was much more tangible for me when I was a child.
I think my imagination must have added quite a lot to the story when it was read to me in childhood, because I remember much more than the book itself actually provides.
