https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/139867.Lunch_Poems
I love Frank O’Hara because he wrote poetry the way Fred Astaire danced.
Frank and Fred make it all look as easy as breathing.
But not O’Hara, not Astaire.Just because you can’t see them sweat doesn’t mean that it was easy.
SONGIs it dirtydoes it look dirtythat’s what you think of in the citydoes it just seem dirtythat’s what you think of in the cityyou don’t refuse to breath do yousomeone comes along with a very bad characterhe seems attractive.
yes, veryhe’s attractive as his character is bad.
it improves constantlyyou don’t refuse to breathe do you
Arguably O'Hara's best collection of poems—second, perhaps, only to the poet's final work, Love Poems, published a year before his untimely death in 1965—Lunch Poems skirts about the streets, alleys, subways, and coasts of NYC during the mid sixties. O'Hara chatters about this and that as he strolls to and fro within these fun poems, all the while throwing together a mishmash of dazzling images. The failed experiments in form that litter the earlier collections have disappeared for the most part, as has any pretension to meditative contemplation.
I ran across the poem "A Step Away from Them" and bought this collection. I have read through it, listened to it on Audible. This is a collection of proto-beat poems that sets the foundation for many will build on. The poems "Song" "The Day Lady Died" and "Steps" are standout poems in this collection.
This is a "What the--?" collection of poems.
For instance, one poem ("Steps") begins like so:How funny you are today New Yorklike Ginger Rogers in Swingtimeand St. Bridget's steeple leaning a little to the leftand ends like so:oh god it's wonderfulto get out of bedand drink too much coffeeand smoke too many cigarettesand love you so muchMan, those were the days--when you could quaff coffee till noon (if you weren't sleeping till noon), wake up, and have a pack of cigarettes for lunch while falling in love.
Today?
Some days the patina of sadness that accretes on everything like the residue of Time itself, the film or layer of mortality that is probably only a phenomenon of our seeing being somehow linked with our memories, that glistens and coats our world as we pass through it, is undeniable and becomes as much a factor of our environment as that grey and yellow winter light, that is somewhere between sunlight and moonlight, but objects retreat into it, like those squeaks from the floor, or those white walls, or those flags billowing crazily in cold wind.
O'Hara's poems were somewhat difficult to grasp and required an investment of time to understand and absorb.
I think it's always a good thing to reveal consciousness through art, but it's also equally important to be able to understand the purpose of such revelations.
I think he succeeds in expressing his thoughts through poetry, but were we, the readers, successful in grasping the purpose?I had a difficult time answering with this collection.
I enjoyed these poems as art, but I did have a hard time connecting with why O'Hara shared these.
the world becomes a jangle I confessed recently that I have trouble connecting with some of the more abstract and postmodern offshoots of contemporary poetry. "[S]trings of images with no clear connective tissue" was how I put it in that review, and I still think that's an apt enough (though no-doubt reductive) description of a lot of what shows up in literary journals and chapbooks these days.But then I read something like Frank O'Hara's Lunch Poems and realize that maybe it's not the string-o
"[S]trings of images with no clear connective tissue" was how I put it in that review, and I still think that's an apt enough (though no-doubt reductive) description of a lot of what shows up in literary journals and chapbooks these days.But then I read something like Frank O'Hara's Lunch Poems and realize that maybe it's not the string-of-images format I have a problem with at all, just the way it's usually executed.
While I'm sure you could trace predecessors back 200 years if you wanted, O'Hara was, as far as I'm aware, pretty much the founder of that whole structurally-informal, free-association school of poetry we all know and have opinions about today.
Short poems that introduce the reader to the lovely poems of Frank O'Hara.

“oh god it’s wonderful to get out of bed and drink too much coffee and smoke too many cigarettes and love you so much”
33)[...]and surely we shall not continue to be unhappywe shall be happybut we shall continue to be ourselves everything continues to be possibleRené Char, Pierre Reverdy, Samuel Beckett it is possible isn't itI love Reverdy for saying yes, though I don't believe it- Adieu to Norman, Bon Jour to Joan and Jean-Paul (pg.
I was not familiar with the New York School of poets and so was pleased to win Frank O'Hara's Lunch Poems in a Goodreads Giveaway.
Yet It was impossible not to catch a glimmer of the coming 1960s counterculture and its more liberal attitudes stirring within these poems.The book closes with correspondence between O’Hara and Lawrence Ferlinghetti of City Lights Press discussing Lunch Poems, the typewritten postcards with spacing errors a welcome bit of nostalgia.
Lunch Poems is Number 19 of 60 in the City Lights Pocket Poet Series.
I'm so damned literaryand at the same time the waters rushing past remindme of nothingI have to admit I was caught unprepared by the muscular images of these reveries.
The questioning at the core appears against the grain of consumption and conformity.
O'Hara isn't proclaiming a revolt but just asking questions.
I admit to not knowing much of his biography, but the ideas being bandied about appear earnest, not that the liberation ethics of the more popular Beats were not.
I can’t even find a pond small enoughto drown in without being ostentatiousI told Joel that I didn't see Bukowski in these lines but rather a memory of Crane and Whitman.
Using this combination, O’Hara documents the life of a writer who must work a day job, stealing poetic moments on lunch breaks and using vacation time as writing time.
This book, like Ginsberg’s Howl and Other Poems, makes a young writer such as myself dream of a bohemian utopia where poets and other artists live in shitty little apartments and spend hours debating the merits of last night’s open mic readers, before getting up hung over and working eight hours at a place where they tolerate “regular” people.
O'hara's poetry is human and chaotic.
Of course, that sounds a bit ridiculous, because who isn't?
but to him, they make their way to his every poem, making them maybe hard to read for some, all the allusions, sometimes even to to people we'll never know, people in his life (I guess that's just a reference then, not an allusion!) but to me, they just make the poems more personal, it's really not the details that matter it's the mood and the person and the fleeting moment being caught and displayed in a poem.
Before O'Hara, my favorite poets were largely depressing goths, wallowing in booze, despair, and self-hatred.
And then I read O'Hara!
O'Hara captures the pleasure of walking with someone you love and suddenly you notice a magazine cover in a window with an actor you both love, and look how the light reflects the leaves on the sidewalk over the window, and, damn, it's pretty amazing to be sharing this with you right now.
O'Hara captures joy.
He captures falling in love, or being in love, not just with a person, but with the moment, or with the word, or with the world.
Frank, Frank, Frank.
Or do they?I love a poetry book that makes me laugh.
I love a poetry book that makes me happy.
Check!But I really love a poetry book that makes me need to go in search of others to share lines and verses with them, as happened here.So here's my favorite poem of the bunch.
I have to say that some Frank O'Hara poems leave me totally cold, but the ones I love I really love.This 50th anniversary edition reproduced some correspondence between O'Hara and Ferlinghetti leading up to the publication of Lunch Poems, but to be honest, it wasn't that interesting and didn't add much to the book. I hadn't realized, though, that we didn't have 5-digit ZIP codes in the early sixties--the one- and two-digit codes the men used for NYC and SF amazed me.
This book of poems is a constant source of hope, of inspiration, and of comfort to me. Frank O'Hara is one of my most favorite literary personages ever EVER, and these little snippets of his life are just so beautiful. He is the master of finding poetry in the mundane. I love this lil book so much.
police cordons for lying political dignitaries ringing toothe world becomes a janglefrom the index fingerto the vast empty houses filled with people, their echoesof lies and the tendrils of fog trailing softly around their throatsnow the phone can be answered, nobody calling, only an echoall can confess to be home and waiting, all is the sameand we drift into the clear sky enthralled by our disappointmentnever to be alone againnever to be lovedsailing through space: didn't I have you once for my self?West Side?for a couple of hours, but I am not that person— excerpt from How To Get ThereMonths ago while I was doing something I can't quite remember, with my heart content of the bliss and rush of ardent and requited infatuation, I was reminded of the line 'I would rather look at you than all the portraits in the world'.
I'm reading this for a Writing class and it's very strange and definitely strange to talk about during class. Not the worst poems, I guess, but not the best. If we were given a selection of these and not all, I might be happier. I don't need to hear about people pooping, thanks.
Maybe it would be better were I American.
"You say everything is very simple and interestingit makes me feel very wistful, like reading a great Russian novel does (...)"
I enjoyed this a lot. Wish I could have read it in NYC in the summertime while eating a piping hot pastrami sandwich, but windy rainy grey England in February just had to do. The edition I had included letters with Lawrence Ferlinghetti at the end charting the book's publication, which I found a very interesting read--it was especially cool seeing what poems got cited by Lawrence as the ones that stood out most to him. I will always like Frank O'Hara's simple, direct, easy-to-read style, I think.
This about the 5th time I have read LUNCH POEMS.
The book is a kind of meditative experience for me and has been over the years.
Of course, I recommend it to anyone.
Also, I bought my latest copy at City Lights Bookstore which I also recommend to everyone.
It is a great shop for books, a solid and IMPORTANT press, as well as an American icon in San Francisco on Columbus, North Beach (a great place for wondering - and you can stay at the Sam Wong Hotel - I did for a couple of nights - for a true "experience" of the city.
I loved this, I really did, but 3/4 of the references in there made little effort to be familiar. I think Frank O'Hara is deeply gifted with a mind that surpasses its own expectations, that lines up thoughts and images in such a delicate and tender way that you have to blink twice at the way he manages to say so much with so little. I picked this up in New York, funnily, and know that I'll forever want to wander back and read parts of it.
A beautiful concept and the perfect size for a book. Frank O'Hara while working at the Musuem of Modern Art in NYC, wrote these poems during his lunch time. Or so goes the legend! Nevertheless O'Hara is a brilliant poet with a great ear for NYC chatter.
Here's my favorite book of poetry. I've been reading and re-reading it for many years. This is a nice, new hardcover edition and replaces a tattered one damaged by many trips in a backpack to strange wild places.
Best if read out loud, After a meal, And with friendsWho have a good sense of humor.
