https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21121.She_Came_to_Stay
The novel is a fictional account of her and Jean-Paul Sartre's relationship with Olga Kosakiewicz and Wanda Kosakiewicz.
Set in Paris on the eve of and during World War II, the novel revolves around Françoise, whose open relationship with her partner Pierre becomes strained when they form a ménage à trois with her younger friend Xaviere.
اما این آزادی در پایان داستان، برای خوانشگر دردسر‌ ساز میشود.
تا اینجا‌ی داستان، خوانشگر، از اطمینان، و اعتمادی که فرانسواز، و «پی یر» نسبت به هم دارند، و از عدم محدودیت آن‌ها، برای تجربه ی رابطه‌ هایی از نوع دیگر، احساس تعجب میکند.
غافل از اینکه در انتهای داستان، همچو بیشتر داستان‌ها، وجود یک رابطه ی سوم، غیرقابل تحمل میشود.
Your guy, whom you are totally smitten with, somehow talks you into agreeing that it's OK for him to extend your relationship into a menage a trois including another, younger woman, that you don't really like very much.
You're seething with jealousy, but, because of various abstract principles, you can't even admit it to yourself in so many words.
So you write a novel based on real events, where you describe her as the empty-headed little bitch she is, and conclude by killing her, which you always wanted to do in real life.Well...
possibly there's a little more to it than that, but it's fun!
Pierre and Xaviere seem to be two of the most emotionally stunted characters to be found in literature as they carry out their tempestuous love affair whilst making Françoise totally complicit in every single detail.
Xaviere is not introduced as the seductive 'other woman' in an otherwise happy relationship, but a young girl struggling to find what she wants in life, whom Françoise, a woman already clearly wracked with insecurities, regards a younger sister figure, it is only the reader who sees her for what she truly is.
De Beauvoir examines the feelings that the relationship evoked in her from a philosophical perspective, not the perspective of a woman scorned.
I will do it.PIERRE: You’re just trying to make me feel guilty.XAVIERE: I could kill myself right now, if I wanted to.FRANCOISE: Don’t do it.
Xaviere?The curtains come down.Cover painting: "Yvonne in Green Dress" (1938) by Guy Pene Du BoisTHE INCIPIENT LANGUAGE OF EXISTENTIALISM:"L'Invitee"The English title has different connotations to the original French title.The French title implies that Xaviere was invited, which was the case, both with respect to her living arrangements and the formation of the triad.In both cases, Francoise seems to have been the inviter or instigator of the relationship.Correspondence with RealityThere are approximations, if not precise equations, with real life characters.Francoise is most obviously modelled on de Beauvoir.Pierre is Sartre, who was writing "Being and Nothingness" at the same time.
نگاه فمنیستی و اگزیستانسیالیسمی مثل بقیه آثار دوبووار مشهود است و او سعی دارد وابستگی عاطفی زن به مر
اعتراف می کنم که از این کتاب سر در نیاوردم. شاید کتاب مشکل ترجمه نامناسب داشت . اما بر خلاف دیگر آثار سیموون دوبووار که بسیار روان و دلنشین هست، در فهم این کتاب مشکل داشتم وقتی دوبووار را به عنوان فیلسوفی فمینیست در نظر می گیرم در فهم این کتاب دچار مشکل می شوم و جالب اینجاست که خود نویسنده این اثرش را به عنوان "خود زندگی نامه" یا اتوبیوگرافی نامیده است  شاید برای فهمیدن این کتاب هنوز سوادمن خیلی کم هست، شاید سالها بعد فهمیدمش و شاید هرگز
Primera novela de Simone.
Cuesta un poco entrar en ella hasta que logra ubicarse a los personajes, a las complejas relaciones entre ellos e, incluso, a esa inquietante frivolidad en sus relaciones habida cuenta que están en los meses previos al estallido de la Segunda Guerra Mundial.
Sin embargo, Simone, con un estilo narrativo lento pero fluido, logra hacernos danzar con los personajes: tan complejos, tan de carne y hueso, tan claroscuros.
Françoise y su vengativa abnegación; Pierre o el hombre que cree dominar y que es dominado; Xaviére o su feminidad sacrificada; Gerbert o el peón del tablero de ajedrez.
Fantástica Simone.
انتقادات تبدو في باطنها سخيفة وطفولية إلى أبعد الحدود، لأن جل ما تريده كازافيير هو أن لا يفعل المرء شيئاً، وأن لا يسعى لأجل شيء، وأن لا يرهق نفسه في سبيل أي شيء، وهي تريد سعادة تنزل من السماء " كالمن " على حد قولها، وفي رغباتها تلك أيضاً حلم مبطن بأن يبقى الاثنين منشغلين بها ومكرسين لتلبية رغباتها.الغريب في الأمر أن بيار / سارتر يبدأ في الإعجاب بوجهة نظر كازافيير هذه، ويرى بأن رؤية العالم من خلال عينيها تجرد العالم من زيفه وتحافظ على نقائه، وبأن الإنسان لا يكون نقيا وأصيلاً وحرا إلا إذا فعل ما يريد بالشكل الذي يريد مع من يريد بدون أي قيد أو شرط، وتبدأ من بعد ذلك انزلاقة بيار إلى علاقة غرامية غريبة مع كازافيير، بمعرفة ومباركة من فرنسواز!
By contrast, Francoise's extra-partnership liaison is with Gerbert, a colleague of hers and friend of Pierre's, who is adamant he did not want a relationship that mirrored Pierre's 'affaires' but something more meaningful - as long as it it wasn't a commitment that tied him down, of course.Was SDB in effect saying that women have higher standards than men, and capable of a higher degree of faithfulness?
but given a post-feminist reading of the novel, that's debatable because Francoise, in the end, was the most successful vengeful female of them all, partly because she chose to operate under the mantle of maturity and intellectual high-mindedness ...
I was trembling with anger during the entire book. The characters are intentionally led to the extreme of their emotions. Simone did this to question love and relationships: how tolerant and honest can you get? Francoise couldn't bare to be honest, but she was extremely tolerant. Did she suffer her "tolerant" humiliation because of love or pride? She wanted to hide this petty human emotion that consumed her and that's why she was silent until the end. She couldn't bare the thought of someone knowing that she was jealous.
لكنه أمر حصل فعليًا مع الكاتبة الفرنسية سيمون دوبوفوار التي تقبلت بألم شديد وجود أولغا كأخرى أو ثانية في حياة سارتر.
هذه "الضرة" كانت طالبة فاشلة في المدرسة التي كانت تعمل فيها كمدرسة، فاحتضنتها وحاولت مساعدتها عبر إشراك رفيق دربها جان بول سارتر في ذلك.
إنها قصة حب جان بول سارتر وسيمون دوبوفوار التي قرأتها مرتين، مرة على شكل مذكرات ومرة في قالب روائي.
لكن في النهاية كان لا بد لها أن تتخذ قرارًا ما يقضي على عذابها ويعيد لها كرامتها المنتزعة، فراحت تردد عبارة "هي أو أنا"، وانتهى بها الأمر لتفضّل "الأنا" على كل الاحتمالات فتخلصت من أولغا في الرواية عبر تدبير جريمة قتل كاملة تخرج منها منتصرة.
Ah, existentialism. The philosophy of freedom...Sure. If you're a white, middle-class guy like Sartre. Existentialism and practicality don't really go hand in hand. Lovely theory, though. Francoise and Pierre invite young, beautiful Xaviere to share their relationship, and, initially, they're delighted with the fresh perspective she gives them. It all changes when Pierre and Xaviere declare their love for each other, and suddenly, Francoise feels trapped in the relationship that was meant to be so free.For my complete review, take a look at my blog, Book to the Future: http://booktothefuture.com.au/?p=1941
Nuk ka ndonje arsye te mirefillte pse keta njerez krijojne ate te famshmen trio dhe nuk ka ndonje shpjegim per sjelljet e tyre ne raport me njeri-tjetrin.E vetmja qe duket se mban barren e rende te trios eshte Fransuaza.
E vetmja qe duket se perfiton nga trioja eshte Ksaviera dhe i vetmi qe kerkon te ruaje baraspeshen eshte Pieri.
Fransuaza kerkon te ekzistoje nepermjet Ksavieres dhe anasjellas, e ne perfundim nuk arrin dot te jetoje me pasqyrimin e ndergjegjes se saj, gje qe e con ate ne nje veprim krejt te papritur.
Based on the reviews I had read on Goodreads prior to starting the novel, I thought She Came to Stay would be a long arduous journey between me and Simone that I would't really enjoy, but that ended up not being the case.
I would not suggest this book to someone who wasn't interested in Sartre and de Beauvoir's work already.
I found the book accessible and worth my while because it is yet another piece in the development of the philosophical whole of Sartre and de Beauvoir.
There are many faults in the novel's story, and anyone looking for an objectively interesting story has come to the wrong book.
I have always, ALWAYS been obsessed with the love triangle of Jean-Paul Satre, Simone de Beauvoir, Michel Foucault since my cherished time in England when I learned a whole cultural theory of philosophy not taught in the American educational system. I then became an avid obssessive student of post-modern dialectic. Although I have read the Second Sex, it is her lovers and relationships with the men in her real life which fascinate me. This novel is supposed to be the story of her obsession and destructive love with Satre...
Every time I read Simone de Beauvoir afterwards I feel like a completely different person. She Came to Stay is another fantastic novel, and actually through writing this first novel Simone de Beauvoir found her voice and produced an exceptional body of work.
Strong and almost striking at times.Beauvoir makes you love and hate all her main characters in this powerfully written book.

Lisbon Book-Fair 2016.
Arrivée à plus de la moitié du livre, je m’arrête là. Je n’ai pas démérité : ça fait près de 300 pages que je m’ennuie... Le personnage de Xavière (« l’invitée ») est insupportable et je ne comprends pas la fascination qu’elle exerce sur Pierre et Françoise (les alter-ego de Sartre et Beauvoir). En revanche, j’ai très envie de continuer à lire Beauvoir, je n’ai pas commencé par ce qu’il me fallait.
It's almost unbelievable how much meaning can be extracted from a novel that essentially lacks a narrative other than artistic professionals simply going about their daily lives.
“Hell is other people,” says Sartre, and Simone de Beauvoir certainly doesn't disagree.
She does however offer a different perspective on the role of the Other, portraying it not only as disturbing one's peace and causing confusion and frustration, but also very much a "necessary evil" that helps people challenge their own image of themselves and view it through a different prism.
As much as I found the narrative somewhat plain and the ending abrupt, the book paints a fascinating psychological portrait - several, in fact.
I was taken aback by how it ended. The book is known to be a recounting of a real story of a young woman that came into the lives of JeanPaul Sarter and Simone de Beauvoir. According to the novel , she wanted to break their unique bond and have Sarter for herself but she failed. I feel the book is more of an attempt to understand what happened and how complex relationships and human can be. To me the restless obnoxious Xaviere was so irritating and at times painful. The book is an complex journey worth embarking on.
Too big, though, and exhausting at times
She Came to Stay is particularly interesting as it is based on the real life relationship between de Beauvoir and the philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre with whom she had an (very French) open relationship.
Whilst I’m not sure that The Mandarins, another novel based on de Beauvoir’s life, is going to particularly be high on my to-read list, I’m really considering sitting down and reading The Second Sex properly at some point in the future.
This book went on forever..it could`ve been much shorter. This book is supposed to be based on the author`s relationship with Jean-Paul Satre, and I suppose I just don`t understand how such a prominent feminist could be ok with agreeing to having an open relationship.
This book went on forever..it could`ve been much shorter. This book is supposed to be based on the author`s relationship with Jean-Paul Satre, and I suppose I just don`t understand how such a prominent feminist could be ok with agreeing to having an open relationship.
Una novela sobre el teatro parisino y sobre un amor CAÓTICO Y AVASALLADOR cuyas relaciones te enredarán hasta asfixiarte. Esperen la video reseña o directo xd No sé cómo será el método. <3El único fallo: Beauvoir no es buena narradora.

این کتاب رو من سالها پیش یک بار زمانی که به اصطلاح بقیه “عقلم به این جور مسائل نمی رسید” خوندم، و با هر صفحه ای که جلو میرفتم بیشتر از انتخابم پشیمون میشدم.
یک بار دیگه هم امروز برداشتمش به امید اینکه این بار حسم متفاوت باشه، ولی با خوندن دو صفحه متوجه شدم که نظرم نسبت به قبل هیچ تغییری نکرده.
مترجم تلاش کرده سبک ادبی و فاخر کار رو حفظ کنه در حالی که بیشتر اکثر مخاطب ها رو دلزده و آزرده میکنه.
جدای از سبک ترجمه، کاراکترهای داستان اصلا قابل ارتباط نیستن، تصمیماتی میگیرن که با عقل مطابق نیست، و بط
این کتاب رو من سالها پیش یک بار زمانی که به اصطلاح بقیه “عقلم به این جور مسائل‌ نمی رسید” خوندم، و با هر صفحه ای که جلو میرفتم بیشتر از انتخابم پشیمون میشدم.
یک بار دیگه هم امروز برداشتمش به امید اینکه این بار حسم متفاوت باشه، ولی با خوندن دو صفحه متوجه شدم که نظرم نسبت به قبل هیچ تغییری نکرده.
مترجم تلاش کرده سبک ادبی و فاخر کار رو حفظ کنه در حالی که بیشتر اکثر مخاطب ها رو دلزده و آزرده میکنه.
جدای از سبک ترجمه، کاراکترهای داستان اصلا قابل ارتباط نیستن، تصمیماتی میگیرن که با عقل مطابق نیست، و بطور کلی برای من اعصاب خرد کن محسوب میشن.
Je me rappelle que ce roman m'avait particulièrement frappé, étant plus jeune (début vingtaine). Je me demande s'il me ferait le même effet aujourd'hui. C'était le premier livre de Simone de Beauvoir que je lisais aussi - alors que j'avais pas mal tout lu Sartre (I know! la féministe en moi pense qu'il faut que je rattrape ma lecture de Simone...)
Ég veit ekki hvort ég geti með góðri samvisku mælt með She Came to Stay (1943) því hún er allt of langdregin og tilgangslaus á köflum þó svo að það hafi í fyrstu verið spennandi að vera fluga á veggjum þeirra kaffihúsa sem þau sóttu, Café de Flore og Les Deux Magots, ýmist að fá sér Kaffi Ólei, áfengi, eða bæði.
Xaviére, eins og hún nefnist í bókinni er þriðji aðilinn í þríhyrningsástarsambandinu en hún er samsuða allavega tveggja kvenna sem JPS „bauð“ inn í samband þeirra SDB.
