https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114182.Reflections_and_Dreams
I love these books. TO me this is Nora Roberts at her romantic best. Her characters always project such passion. I also loved that they centered on dance a passion of mine
I loved how both Seth and Nick were such powerful and passionate men.
I also loved their first time after the snowstorm and lindsey's conflicting feelings over her future; ballet or a family with Seth.
Thw whole ballet world is fascinating and the Ruth and Nick's really offers close insight into it.
I love how their first time was so passionate and Ruth was a virgin, because she always knew she was his.
I love how Nick blurts out that he loves her and accidently demands she move in with him because he can't bear barely seeing her!
She was a ballerina in New York for several years before she returned home to take care of her mother, Mae. Mae had been injured in a car accident.
When the book begins, Lindsay is walking home because her car won't start.
Seth thinks that Lindsay will return to New York to dance again.
Lindsay told him about her before.Dance of DreamsWhen the book begins, Ruth Bannion, niece of Seth from Reflections is returning home from a date.
She is a principal dancer in a popular ballet company, the one Lindsay, also from Reflections, danced in before she returned home.
So I remember reading this book when I was kid. I was probably 11 or 12. And I stole it from my mother's room and she caught it in my room and got upset and ripped the book in half. And I remember her telling me the book was too mature for me.It was probably my first romance novel I ever read. Haha
Both books, Reflections and Dance of Dreams, are about the ballet, which I found riveting. On the other hand, the story lines were weak - not much action. Reflections got off to a great start and then dwindled from there. The segue into Dance of Dreams was smooth but did not pick up the pace. As usual Ms. Roberts characters are good, the dynamics between the hero and heroine are tight and charged, and the research was great, but somehow both books, originally published in 1983, lacked a certain something one grows accustomed to getting from Ms. Roberts.
I have a fascination with big old mansions in books, and loved reading about Cliff House as the house Lindsey grew up exploring.
Dance of Dreams ~ I was thrilled when I began reading the second story in this novel and realized that the main character was Ruth from the previous story, how charming.
I thought that was such a cute idea to use the same characters.
I loved how much dancing/ballet was incorporated into the second story.
I loved Nora Roberts use of characters, a great line up in this book.
Usually I like Nora Roberts, but this one was a stinker. I only got about 1/3 of the way through and just couldn't force myself to go on. Yuck...didn't like the characters, just flat and boring. Or in the case of the "hero," mean, rude, and a know-it-all. BUT! when she looks into those smoldering eyes (or whatever the description was) she just can't help herself and finds him suddenly fascinating and kiss-worthy. yuck. But then, she must keep a professional distance until she goes to his ever fascinating cliff house, etc. etc.
This is probably one of the best Nora Robert's books that I have ever read. Both stories have wonderful and lovable charachters. This book is all about love, the ballet, and the choices two women have to make that changes the way they look at life, love, and again ballet. After reading this I actually am drawn to go watch a ballet. Not only are the love stories great, but the way you're drawn into the dancing aspect is great too. Kudos to Nora Roberts.
Not one of my fave by Nora. There seemed to be no real connection to any of the characters and the story was just meh...
Ainda bem que o preço era camarada e eu tinha livros para trocar.Na primeira história, Reflexos, vai contar o romance da Lindsey com o tio de uma aluna promissora em sua escola de balé, Seth O’Bannion.
Ruth, a sobrinha do Seth na história anterior, está em Nova York perseguindo o seu sonho de se tornar bailarina e trabalha na mesma companhia de Nikolai Davidov, os dois tem uma relação meio de “te amo mas te odeio”, ele é temperamental e ela não abaixa a cabeça, então os dois vivem as turras.
Connecticut.Sex: Infrequent, closed doors.Hero: ArchitectHeroine: Former ballerina now running dance studio.Enjoyable for what it is - a 1980s Harlequin with a sweet, uncomplicated romance.
Confident heroine, caring but reticent hero.
Some sweet, closed door sex.Albeit remarkably similar to Roberts’ Taming Natasha.It was a likeable romance with light angst and approachable characters.Will be interesting to see what happens in Book 2 - Ruth all grown up and falling for Lindsay’s dance partner and Ruth’s mentor, Nickolai Davidov.The Bannions:Book 1 Reflections - Lindsay Dunne and Seth BanningBook 2 Dance of Dreams - Ruth Banning and Nikolai DavidovReferences:Author's website: http://noraroberts.com(Read in Reflections ISBN 9781743568545)-CR-
This book is actually 2 stories--Reflections and Dance of Dreams.
I really enjoyed Reflections.
The story of a ballerina who always loved to dance but was motivated by her mother who was also a dancer.
She opens a dance studio in town and meets Seth through her new student Ruth.
Someone who reviewed this previously said that they would have liked more background on Seth.
He had a background story that wasn't revealed.
A shame.Dance of Dreams continued the story with Ruth being encouraged by Lindsey to go to New York and study with Lindsey's mentor and dance partner Nickolai Davidov.
Very different reading it again when my children are older than Lindsay.The story centers around Lindsay, a ballerina, who has left the glam and glitter for a small town in Connecticut to open her own studio while caring for her mother.
In drives Seth and his niece, Ruth, who also wants to be a ballerina.
He wants her to return to the glam and glitter for one more performance as the star in a ballet he has written.
But, can the relationship that has grown between Lindsay and Seth survive it?Now to pick up the follow-on book to this one, Dance of Dreams, which is Ruth's story.
Three and half stars.Includes Reflections and Dance of Dreams.Reflections is about Lindsay Dunne and Seth Bannion. Lindsay was a prima ballerina on the verge of explosive success when a family tragedy changes the course of her life. Seth is the guardian of one of her most promising students.Dance of Dreams is about Ruth Bannion (yes, Seth's niece from Reflections) and Nickolai Davidov, her mentor and dance partner.Fun reads set in the ballet world.
I just started reading Nora Roberts books and this one which has both books together, is one of her older books but a delight to read. Especially if you enjoy and love the world of ballet. It gives you a look behind the curtain. The strain and hard work of ballet dancers wrapped up in a love story. I really enjoy her writing.
It was a sweet, quick read, but I wish Seth's POV was told. He was basically in the story just to be the love interest even though it was clear he had a very interesting story. Instead of going deeper into who he was he just became "the guy". I think if he had a POV in the book I would have gotten a better sense of who he was and it would have been easier to love him
I always like to read a Nora Roberts book. I haven't read one of her romance books in awhile so it was quite entertaining. I always enjoy her characters and it was interesting to get a glimpse into the world of ballet.
The ballet, and it's dancers, are the main plot background in these two books. I loved them when read in the 1980's and still enjoyed them today. No one does passion better than Nora Roberts, she has a grip on the banter between the sexes and I really like that.
My only objection is: the heroine of the Nutcracker is Clara, not Carla.
very basic storyline - was okay
again re-reading Nora Roberts series, free e-books from the library
Two books in one so it took a little longer to read. The books are about the same characters so it flowed well from one to the other. Both were cute love stories.
Of course, New York City, New York, was a logical, necessary setting for the characters Lindsay Dunne, Nickolai Davidov, and Ruth Bannion to pursue his/her dreams of becoming a professional dancer and establish his/her individual career; however, the intimacy of a close-knit caring hometown lifestyle is more appealing to me personal.
It was the perfect mixture of seduction, gentleness, need, passion, and desire to two souls who had neglected romance, intimacy, and honest emotion for so long.DANCE OF DREAMS: I really enjoyed reading this novel by Nora Roberts.
From a very early age, Lindsay Dunne has trained to become a ballet dancer, just like her mother, but better.
As a teacher, you just don’t dance like a dancer in training.And then she meets Seth Bannion, the uncle of her newest student Ruth.
Lindsay knows that Ruth is a big talent, and Ruth doesn’t want anything more than dancing professionally herself.
And now that her mother is moving to California with her best friend, to start a new life and a business together, there is nothing keeping Lindsay here … And so she agrees, but only to dance the first night.
Along the way she meets an engineer, Seth, that quickly steals her heart, but as Lindsey thinks about going back to dancing, he distances himself from her.
Sometimes I am able to love because I feel like it." Dance has a past, present and future.
Lindsey has a past with dance, but a future with Seth.
We need that one person who can breakdown our barriers and when we find them, we need to be able to let them in.I recommend you to read this book if you love romance books.This book also has a lot of drama.
Reflections and Dreams by Nora Roberts contains the revivals of her earlier works of Reflections and Dance Of Dreams which pliés and arabesques into the world of professional ballet.
Reflections follows Lindsay Dunne a classical ballet dancer running her own small studio in small town Connecticut.
It is there she meets Seth an architect who moves into town with his niece Ruth an aspiring young ballet dancer who idolizes Lindsay.
Enter the second book Dance Of Dreams which has fast forwarded the story by five years.
Lindsay and Seth are married and Ruth Bannion Seth's wide eyed niece is grown and an established dancer in New York.
I loved reading the dynamics of everyone involved and would enjoy reading this one again.
This book made me want to learn ballet simply for the enjoyment (and ignore my incompetence and inability).
:) Definitely a worthy read and good for snuggling up with or for the enjoyment of learning to dream.Dance of Dreams was great too.
I liked how well written the feelings were and the truth behind ballet dancing.
Didn't have me wanting to try it as much and the first book, that's for sure.
It definitely kept it interesting.Overall, I really liked this book.
Both were great and are worth reading again.
Liked how Lindsey created a new life for herself in her small town while still there are her mother.
Not much to 17 yr old Ruth's personal feelings but will show up in next book.Dance of Dreams: Another good explanation of the hard work involved with being a ballet star.
Enjoyed Ruth with standing up for what she believes, not letting herself be dominated when it involves her personal life.
Good to have Lindsey back to give her perspective of Davidov without holding any grudges about her earlier love for the same man.
Opening a ballet studio gives her a different kind of satisfaction and she's content.
Content to teach and remain out of the spotlight, Lindsay has no regrets in choosing a life with Seth.Dance of Dreams: Five years later and Ruth Bannion has made it.
She's a prima ballerina in New York, partnering with the famous Nickolai Davidov.
Finding himself attracted to 17 year old Ruth when she first arrived in New York, Nick bides his time and helps her achieve her dream.
Now, changing their relationship Nick learns he can't live without Ruth and sets out to make her his in every way.
Zu "Die schöne Ballerina": Eine sehr schöne und nette Liebesgeschichte von Nora Roberts.
Die Charaktere sind einem auf Anhieb sympathisch und man erlebt die Geschichte mit ihnen.
Dies ist allerdings eine der ersten Geschichten von Nora Roberts, daher kommt er nicht an die neueren ran.
Hier wird die Geschichte von der Nichte von Seth und dem besten Freund von Lindsay erzählt ( Lindsay und Seth sind das Liebespaar aus dem ersten Teil "Die schöne Ballerina").
Auch hier spielt die Geschichte in einem Engagement und es geht rum um das tanzen.
Wer aber die neueren von Nora Roberts kennt, wird etwas enttäuscht sein.
