https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28430665-the-lark
Old-fashioned, British, light without being absolutely frivolous, and simply enjoyable to read.Just after the end of World War I (a time that still feels much more Edwardian than Jazz Age), cousins and orphans Jane and Lucilla are taken out of boarding school and presented with a regretful letter from the guardian they've never met, informing them that he has embezzled and lost most of their inheritance and is fleeing the country, leaving them a cottage and a small sum of money to tide them over until they figure out how to make a living.
E. Nebitt's The Lark, a Furrowed Middle Brow book, published by Dean Street Press, is a light hearted adult read that reflects Nesbit's humor, as well as her Victorian era author sensibilities.
The story takes place in 1919 and reveals two young women left with a small inheritance struggling to make ends meet.
They also share a sense of mission as well as a sense of humor--their lives depend on the former and perhaps also the latter.This work of fiction was first published in 1922.
I look forward to reading other reviews of The Lark, and am pleased Dean Street Press brought attention to this little known treasure.
It's wonderful how bacon clears the mind.Actual quote from early on in this book.I think that sums up the whimsical, fun feeling of the story, but I'll add a few more details.This is about Jane and Lucilla, two girls in their late teens who have every expectation of inheriting a comfortable amount of money some day.
He's leaving the country, and giving them the deed to a house and a small sum of money in hopes that they can somehow get by.Jane immediately decides that the only way to handle the situation is to treat it as "A Lark" and not worry too much about the potential disaster it could be.
An absolute delight!
A real slice of life from 1919 that was sweet and light with elements of feminism just breaking through! Hoped it would be a bit like a Nancy Mitford but wasn't as funny. Lovely writing though and humorous bits - way to long tho!
http://wordnerdy.blogspot.com/2017/04...Today I made the exciting discovery that a) E. Nesbit wrote books for ADULTS, and b) this adult novel centers on a pair of plucky cousins! Plucky down-to-earth young ladies are my favorites! And these two are in something of a pickle: their guardian has gambled away their inheritances and has left them high and dry (with a house and 500 pounds) to make their way in the world. Which they do, with aplomb, and with a lot of sheer hilarity I had not entirely expected from Nesbit. Too delightful, and just what I needed. A.
This falls firmly into the category of novels about distressed gentlewomen find unlikely ways to earn themselves money, which is a category that Ireally like (Miss Buncle's book for example, in some ways Ballet Shoes by Noel Streatfeild).
They turn to flower selling and manage, over the course of the book, to gain a big house, a nice garden and a squadron of men to help them.
I started reading it months ago - and then ended up reading probably 95 percent of it ove the course of a couple of days.
Real treatThis book is a delight from start to finish. The two girls have a real lark, and so does the reader. As soon as something threatens to pall we drop it and rush to the next topic. If one is expecting depth of character or an exploration of post war mores, one might be disappointed, but as a lovely Nesbitean celebration of the joys of life when one is young and carefree, The Lark hits the spot. I loved it.
A charming and quirky story told with Nesbit's inimitable style.
This tale of two cousins making their way in life after receiving a much smaller than anticipated inheritance is a thoroughly delightful read. It made me want to dive into Nesbit's children's books. So glad that Dean Street Press has brought this overlooked adult novel by Nesbit out of obscurity.
Teenage fiction before teenage fiction existed. (Or teenagers for that matter.) A jolly romp with lots of twists and turns but a surprisingly modern attitude to the young, independent heroines. I really like E.Nesbit - her characters always seem real - and this was the perfect accompaniment to two snow-bound couch-potato days. It won't change your life, but it might make you smile!
However, it doesn't live up to that potential, mainly because of the mithering approach to plot resolution and character development.
(view spoiler)[During one tiff, after which the cousins are allowed to run a B&B out of a house rent-free, Jane takes against Rochester at the end of the chapter and refuses to speak to him, and because the reason is so slight and obscure, I had no idea why.
Not to mention, Nesbit has a very amusing idea of what constitutes penury - a rent-free property and the equivalent of five thousand pounds in today's money, which allows them to have a servant!
Very enjoyable. Reminds me of I Capture the Castle - a fun, old-fashioned read.
A nice easy read on holiday. The kindle version seemed to be full of typographical errors and other errors. The story was generally flowing along but came to a rather abrupt end when everything was tied up neatly in the last few pages.
The Lark is the story of two young women making their precarious way in the world having just left school and come into a small-ish legacy.
You can rather guess the rest.The second chapter moves the story forward about four years, the girls are still at school although about to leave – having stayed there safely, long enough for the war in Europe to finish, they are both now around eighteen or nineteen.
The Great War has just ended, Jane’s father has died, and a Great Aunt had left Jane a nice amount of money – which has scandalously been mismanaged by her trustee.
This is such a fun read.
I love Edith Nesbit's children's books and this novel for adults is equally adorable.
It's about 2 girls/young women starting out on adult life and growing up together.
It reminded me of that time in life when you are almost playing at being grown-up, trying things out ...
it's very sweet and very funny especially the friends' lack of self-awareness at times.
Lovely to see heroines who are kind and brave and well-meaning and get it wrong sometimes.
A very good read.
What a lovely, jolly, old-fashioned book--an adult novel that reads as blithely as a children's book.
It's the story of two young women, cousins Jane and Lucilla, who decide to deal with a sudden change of fortune (not real poverty) as a lark, and of their efforts to make their way in the world while getting into muddles, making wonderful friends, balancing astonishingly good luck with mildly bad luck, and having brushes with romance.
It's all very jolly and good-hearted.
The ending felt rather rushed, but the pages leading up to the end had some of the funniest moments.
This book suffered from wanting to be everything at once: fairytale, feminist tract, Bildungsroman, spy novel, love story, etc. In the end, it was just tiresome. Disappointing as I love most of E. Nesbit's books.
Now that I have listened to "The Lark" I definitely have to look for more.As plots go, the tale woven in "The Lark" develops smoothly, at a steady pace, and is overall quite simple and even naive:) Every obstacle that comes into Jane and Lucilla's way solves almost on itself, with no interference or effort from the girls, every misfortune turns into fortune, bad guys turn out not to be so bad at all, and so on and so forth...
When you listen to the book it's like listening to a wonderful symphony of words:) I can't describe it better, really...And the interpretation by Ms Hancock only adds another layer and gives so much depth to the whole story...
The characters are a delightful contrast in personality--with lots of gentle jibes to each other as they acknowledge their own and each other's foibles, traits and tactics in their approach to life and situations.
Usually, as in the case of Anne Tyler's books, the characters think comments about the other person but here they actually say what they are thinking, and the way they play off of each other is so amusing.
The story never becomes heavy or depressing--it's all told in a lighthanded, brisk way moving ahead at a nice, brisk pace.
Never before have I read a book and wanted to read it again, straight away, because I loved it so much.
It made such a refreshing change; the story was absolutely delightful.
The Lark was full of gentle humour, at one point toward the end I had to put the book down because I had tears streaming down my face with laughter I could no longer see the words.
This book has quite easily rocketed into my favourite top 5 books of all time therefore I've got absolutely nothing critical to say about it and make no apologies for that.
The Lark for me has been a lucky find.
The Lark, published in 1922 and recently reissued, is a delightfully familiar sort of British story - a pair of spirited cousins, both orphans, are abandoned by their guardian (who gambled away their inheritance).
The story and characters are charming, but it's the smart, witty writing that elevates The Lark.
I also had no idea of Nesbit's biography - her feckless and philandering husband, her need to support her family by writing, and her co-founding of the socialist Fabian society.
The girls are orphans and have grown up together in a boarding school.
The young women set off to make their way, earn their living, on their own.
Chance encounters and a beautiful garden help them on the way.
Every potential tragedy turns to their benefit.The delightful thing about this book is that the author knows this is an unrealistic premise and set of circumstances and allows the reader to be in on the plot device.
The girls themselves recognize that their lot is one of extraordinary good luck.As long as one has food, shelter and some leisure time, life is a lark.
I only found about this book from Penguin’s recent release Penguin Women Writers that celebrates women winning the vote in Britain!The Lark is by E.
Nesbitt who wrote The Railway Children and this is one of her adult novels.
What follows is a series of events that both describe as a ‘lark’.I loved this and I can’t wait to get started on reading the rest of the PWW series!
Absolutely charming. What a delightful read/listen. All the dialog is so engaging and it's often laugh-out-loud funny. Humor doesn't always carry through the ages, but I found every bit of this book and its two main characters, Lucilla and Jane, to be such a joy. I particularly enjoyed the narration of Anne Hancock in this audiobook. "I was given this free review copy audiobook at my request and have voluntarily left this review."
Loved it!I chose 5 star because it was an innocent foray into of determination, pluck and love. More than a few non innocents to be contended with by two lovely girls thrust from sheltered existence to post ww1 rural London. And a suddenly unexpected delightful ending! I recommend this novel to anyone that has a heart. Oh...and no violence, sex or swearing. Yet a dynamic read. Enjoy!
Dead God the utter boredom almost killed me. I understand that this is a "light" novel and life is just a "lark" teehee teehee but Ms. Nesbit managed to write the most insipid story about the most insipid characters. The only redeeming thing about this book is that briefly in the beginning and even more briefly at the end there is a rabbit named Othello.
Audible:Fun story of sisters just trying to make a living in a mans world. Anne Hancock was an excellent narrator.I was given this book by the narrator,author or publisher free for an honest review.
A delightful tale, a fun read. I bought the Ultimate Edith Nesbit collection on amazon for 99cents, it includes This book and 19 other books and 200 short stories! Over 7000 pages. I think I got my money’s worth. This is a cute and funny read. I’ll read the Railway children next.
Enjoyable light read. Basically chocolates for the mind, which is all I felt like yesterday.Only 3 stars because the outcome was predictable from the start and the ending wrapped up loose ends way too quickly.
