https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/166190.Computer_Networks
Computer Networks, Andrew S. Tanenbaum تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سال 2006 میلادیعنوان:شبکه های کامپیوتری ؛ نویسنده: اندرو اس. تاننبام؛ مترجم: محمد قدسی؛ با همکاری: محمدخیام روحانی؛ ویراستار: حسن بستاندوست نیک؛ تهران، شورای عالی انفورماتیک - سازمان برنامه و بودجه؛ 1375؛ در 850 ص؛ کتابنامه از ص 775 تا 798؛ موضوع: شبکه های کامپیوتری - سده 20 ما. شربیانی
The problem set is very useful.
The only drawback is the lack of a solution manual to the problem sets.In case one wants to follow up a certain chapter a suggested reading list is provided.To sum up, I’d say that this book is an excellent introductory book to computer networks.
Plus points: excellent explanation, reasonably priced, good problem set.
Minus points: needs a solution manual :DComputer Networks is still one of the best general texts on networking I know of, however, and it deserves to survive to a fifth edition.Thank you Dr Andrew S Tanenbaum!
Used to read this book in order to pass Computer Networks course in the bachelor degree of the university. I was very good. describing concepts with basic words and fluently. A great network fundamental book recommended to whom interested in learning Computer Networks from scratch.
Excellent book for anyone looking to pick up advanced networking knowledge. Topics have been relevant to my career and I continue to refer to this book. The information covers a broad range of topics; however, remains detailed enough to give a thorough explanation.
Best book to know the breadth of networking.
Either way, it's not something you want to see in a textbook author.Some of his chapters also feel poorly structured; for instance, in the middle of the Network Layer, he includes a fairly detailed description of a p2p protocol which clearly belongs in the Application Layer.
He also includes a large section on HTML, XML, and XHTML, which I doubt would have been necessary (or even relevant to a networking student) by 2003.Another problem I have with the book is that Tanenbaum seems a bit too convinced wireless is the wave of the future, and spends considerably more time on wireless protocols than I think they really deserve.
It's a very helpful and very complete book about networks. The main point is that it privileges the why over the how, so the boring mechanics takes second place to the reasons behind the choices made along a short but eventful history.
The book not just gives not knowledge. To me, it's given something more. Thanks Andrew.
One of the best written books of technology, Mr. Tanenbaum accomplished a very entertaining book with lots of examples, mixing technology and imagination he accomplished to create a classic.
A great book to learn computer networking fundamental and all description ✌
i want to read this book
It helped a lot in understanding some of the basic concepts in networking. The book also presents some historical background so it was fun to read.
I'm better at networks now.Must read for any system administrator.
بسمه تعالیبرای یاد گیری مبانی شبکه عالیست
My favourite book about Computer Networks. Describes in detail all things and it has great exercises. Excellent book!
Книга больше о теории разработки протоколов и в этой области хороша. Но в целом, показалась несколько поверхностной.
Now, after 10 years in the IT industry I realized that I need to understand networking and came back to this book.The introduction is hard to read and somehow put me off.
But once you're past that you see the beauty of the book:It is very well organized, it goes through all the layers in a good speed so it's perfect to get an understanding which protocol goes into which layer.
The keywords are marked bold you can just cross read entire pages and spot the bold words to check if you're now leaving out something important.tl;dr: yes, the book is dated but gives a great overview over networking in general
I HATE THIS BOOK!From the perspective of an instructional systems tech major and in which this book is used for instructional systems tech majors, this is not an effective book.
It has this bottom-top approach in terms of the network hierarchy and that is not how one is preferred to learn about networks, unless one is already proficient about the concept of networks and this becomes just a guide.The book also has this way of making things sound easy and funny at times but it is only trying hard to make some concept sound easy, which is even more frustrating.
This is one of the best books introducing the topic of computer networks. It gives a detailed overview of all layers of the OSI stack, starting from how data is represented and compressed in electric circuit, up to HTTP protocol and media format encoding. All of that is complemented by "homework" at the end of each chapter, which often encourages to think outside of the box. My only note may be that the last chapters (introducing higher OSI layers) are not as well written as the rest of the book.
This book is magnificent, it talks about everything and nothing about networking! It talks about every technology in some sort of story telling manner, at the same time it doesn't get into details of any subject. It's like a beautiful short story book (for computer literates of course ;) ) that draws a complete panoramic canvas about every confusing, high tech name out there. You can read this book many times and still find it necessary to read it again!
Great book.This book explain the theory part of data communication and computer networking. Data communication and computer networking, uses,how it achieved, its working,how devices are communicated,communication of people,through devices,located remote locations, transferring of data from one point to another point,the protocols, etc etc. This book give a strong foundation for the practical use. Explained well.
An awesome book with very clearly laid out information, specially for the beginner in computer networks. It presents some subjects that, while do not seem absolutely relevant, are still rather interesting (history of origins of the internet as we know it comes to mind). Specially great for clearing concepts one has doubts about, and an infinetely useful accompanying tool to study for finals related to the subject.
"NEVER UNDERESTIMATE THE BANDWITH OF A STATION WAGON FULL OF TAPES HURTLING DOWN THE HIGHWAY"Tanenbaum lehrt hier profunde Netzwerkgrundlagen entlang des ISO/OSI- bzw. TCP/IP-Referenzmodells, dh. von der Hardware- hinauf zur Anwendungsschicht. Er bespricht zudem Netzgeschichte (technisch & wirt./politisch) und zB. die Hierarchie & Arbeitsweise (inter)nationaler Standardisierungsorganisationen
This is one of the most readable technical textbooks I have encountered. It explains networks and telecommunications in a very fascinating way, with a lot of humor thrown into the mix. Tanenbaum is, of course, the creator of Minix, which Linus Torvalds tinkered with before creating Linux.
Wspaniała książka. Czytałem ją ponad rok, (ponad 1000 stron robi swoje) w międzyczasie przeszło paręnaście książek, ale warto. Na pewno będę do niej wracać. Jest tam prawie wszystko co powinna wiedzieć o sieciach osoba siedząca w tym temacie, dla osób postronnych może wydać się nudna, niestety jakąś minimalną wiedzę powinien posiadać czytelnik.
All I always wanted to ask about Internet but always afraid of.Brief overview of all technology stack used in modern networking and a bit math around them.Also author using great analogies and jokes to explain complicated things and processes.Must read for every engineer.
This is one of the best computer network books available out there. I loved the comical writing style of the author. AST drops a lot of small knowledge pieces throughout the book. I would definitely recommend this to all computer science students and professionals alike!
i recall the network course i took in university this was considered my textbook, It’s a great resource for understanding networks where it gives detailed descriptions of the principles associated with each layer and presents many examples drawn from the Internet and wireless networks.
This greatest plus point of this book is that while Network topics are quite dry, but the text in this book is written in such a way that makes it quite interesting to read. It manages to convey the concept across to the reader by employing a story-telling type of method.
I read this cover to cover (all 900 pages), and it was actually a real pleasure. It's well written with a good flow, and manages a good amount of technical detail. Plus the author has a dry wit that kept making me chuckle. Really great textbook.
