https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/847871.The_Devil_s_Novice
Having read eight Cadfael books on the trot, I think I now have a measure of this author.She is NOT similar to Christie, but that is not to say that her work is not interesting.
Her eleventh century Shrewsbury is a wonderful world to escape into, and Cadfael is a great protagonist to tag along with.Christie's plots are deeper, and she offers clues that a reader can use to guess.
Then, your mission to guess the motive and the modus operandi.When it comes to language and style, I think Ellis Peters writes extraordinarily well.
Christie's writing is functional.When it comes to the lead protagonist, both Cadfael and Poirot are great and unique.
In addition to the murder mystery, this tale brings to the reader an understanding of a historical setting which borders on the mythic, an introduction to a medieval craft (in this case, making charcoal), reflections on life then and now, a love story, and the fun of a tale well told.“He’s innocent enough, God knows, to believe that other men are as honest as he.”Readers seeking a story grounded closer to fact than the average epic fantasy, which usually loses itself in horses that run forever, swords that never dull, clerics who call down lightning bolts and enough nihilism for a lifetime, Edith Pargeter’s series on the life and times of this retired Crusader and now monastic should be welcome.
I prefer my mysteries to be cozies.I don't think a mystery set in 12th century English abbey can really be a cozy; nonetheless, Ellis Peters' Cadfael series hits the same spot.
The Devil's Novice is the 8th in the Cadfael series.
No fingerprints, DNA evidence, facial recognition software, the internet traces, or video evidence – and despite one or two false arrests and confessions – Brother Cadfael and Hugh Beringar solved this crime and set at least this one small part of the world right again.
The Devil's Novice includes a series of three maps (each more focused than the next), as well as a glossary.
Plot was mediocre compared to the previous two novels in the series. I had a hard time maintaining interest and often found my attention focusing on other sources of reading material. Still, you can’t help but love Cadfael, so I’ll go for one more.
I reread this book, set in Autumn, to fulfill the Book For All Seasons challenge to read a book set in that season.I love Cadfael, and I love Ellis Peters’ writing; she portrays the season with lovely descriptions at the beginning of the book, set in early Autumn, of still-warm days, hazy sunshine, apple harvesting, and by the end of the book, winding up in December, there are frosty nights closing in.
Cadfael must get to the bottom of this puzzle; meanwhile, Hugh Beringar, under-sheriff, must find out what has become of a bishop’s emissary who has disappeared after passing through the family lands of Meriet, the “devil novice” - does his disappearance have anything to do with the boy’s night terrors?A wonderful, evocative tale, great characters, satisfying puzzle, beautifully told as always!
Another great book. I was glad to see Brother Mark again; he is one of my favorite supporting characters.
1140 and Cadfael witnesses the arrival of a new novice, Meriet Aspley and his father, Leoric.
(Haven’t we all wanted to strangle Brother Jerome?)The Abbot decides to send him off to work with Brother Mark at the hospital colony in an effort to slow the boy down; no one really believes he has the making of a brother in him.
Abbot Radulfus asks Cadfael to find out what is bothering the boy.Helping Mark find firewood, Meriet leads them to the charcoal maker’s hut and in the stacked pile of a fire they find the body of a missing envoy.
Young Meriet Apsley is insistent that it is his choice to join the Benedictine brothers; that he is not being forced by his stern, cold father.
When Meriet starts having loud nightmares many are disturbed and frightened; Cadfael is curious and suspects a trauma of some sort in the young man's past.In October, there came an important visitor.
He was last seen in early September at the home of a distant kinsman, Leoric Apsley, young Meriet's father.As autumn progresses to winter, Cadfael and sheriff Hugh Beringar work a double investigation--find the missing clerk, find out what Meriet is hiding.
Meriet is a very troubled young man, but could he also be a murderer?
I didn't like this one quite so well as the preceding The Virgin in the Ice, although it was still enjoyable. I really love the relationship between Brother Cadfael and Hugh Beringar.
Time would discover what young Meriet's small, desperate flame portended."The Devil's Novice is more of a psychological thriller than a murder mystery.
And sweet Mark is the spiritual saviour of Meriet the tormented novice.
"Brother Mark prayer, not be words, but by igniting a candle-flame within himself, which burned incredibly tall, and sent up entreaty to Meriet.
What more could you want?"'Whatever devil is possessing young Meriet is plaguing me by contagion, and I want it exorcised at all costs!'"
This was the first time I've read one of the medieval mysteries involving Brother Cadfael, a Benedictine monk in Shrewsbury.
Brother Cadfael had come to his religious vocation late in life after seeing the world in the military.
What terrible secrets was the novice hiding?Meanwhile, Brother Cadfael is trying to help solve the mystery of the disappearance of a political envoy sent to the area by the bishop.
It was 1140 when both King Stephen and the Empress Maud were trying to grasp the English crown, and the bishop was a supporter of King Stephen.I enjoyed both the medieval setting, and the warm, intuitive character of Brother Cadfael.
The Devil's Novice is hilariously overwrought, pausing to describe in detail how each young incidental character is yet more lovely than the last, but makes up for it with a well realized and strongly convincing historical setting and characters who, past the purple prose, are endearingly quirky, even under the looming threat of murder.
Most refreshing of all the characters on offer this round is Isouda, who, despite the brief attention the book devotes her, is a strong romantic interest, and a strong woman without falling to the danger of seeming out of place in a medieval setting, as so many female protagonists do in medieval fiction.Definitely a guilty pleasure, but my favourite Cadfael book all the same.
When a secretive young oblate arrives at the abbey, his strange behavior, and screaming nightmares, are cause for concern for Brother Cadfael.
The young man's excessive horror at the sight of an injured man suggests that the secrets he carries, whatever they are, may be dark indeed.
In search of answers, Cadfael stumbles upon another murder, and the boy seems the likely suspect.I was wrong this time in my guess regarding the whodunit(view spoiler)[ mainly because the motive for the murder isn't given until the killer is unmasked--not exactly fair to readers who like to play detective alongside the hero, but oh well (hide spoiler)].
Ah, my first Brother Cadfael. To him and Ellis Peters I owe my lifelong love of historical mysteries. A lot of authors have "If you like Brother Cadfael you'll like...." on their covers but very few have ever come close to Ellis' hero and his stories. Both he and his creator are missed.
This is one of the Brother Cadfael series, about a Benedictine monk solving mysteries in medieval England, which I generally recommend. This is one of my favorites from among a good crop. Cadfael is in top form, the emotions are deep and painful, and the resolution is _highly_ satisfying.
Nicely constructed mystery with the historical context providing the solution to the mystery. The strength of the characters and the local history make for a gripping narrative.
A bit more dramatic than I like but with Peters wonderful writing and Brother Cadfael it can never be really bad.
Everyone needs a little comfort reading, now and then.
This is the 8th book in the Chronicles of Brother Cadfael series.
Soon it becomes obvious that the monk was murdered shortly after leaving the Manor and three days I later the second son decides he wants to be a monk.
someone has the answers and Cadfael knows he must get to the truth before someone is wrongly convicted and a murder gets away.I cannot help but love this series.
A little history with murder thrown in is a great way to read away an afternoon.
Will be reading the next in the series soon .
This reds easily and kept me turning pages wanting to know what happens next, for all that it centres only male character and has some internalised misogyny in (for example) the way Roswitha is portrayed and the way Isouda is compared and contrasted with her (I believed the only other named female character was the bland Aline, who in most of the books does nothing except give birth and seerve her menfolk).So the gender stuff irritated me and I also find Peters' overly romantic sociology of the family a bit difficult to stomach (but I like it better in 12th century Shrewsbury than in any century I have lived in).Nevertheless for all that (as usual) I am talking about the flaws, I enjoyed this as a relaxing read with twists that while not too surprising were satisfactory.
When the Cadfael series came out I had little time for reading...but years latter was entranced by PBS's Brother Cadfael staring Derek Jacobi.
It was such a rich series with backdrops that reflected the long ago world of the twelfth century.
So picking up 'The Devil's Novice' I wondered if I would be enamoured or disappointed....well it was fabulous and rich in both description and plot.
Of course I will always see the characters at the Abbey of Saint Peter and Saint Paul through the lens of the casting director of PBS's famous series.
Wonderful read.
Ellis Peters continues to write great cozy mysteries from Shrewsbury, this being the eighth book in the series.
His older son is getting married soon and young Meriet chooses the cowl as his profession.
Off he goes to spend time with Brother Mark while Cadfael sorts out Meriet's demons.
Hugh Beringar helps out, but soon has his handsful investigating the murder of Peter Clemence who was on his way to Chester.
Ellis is great at revealing clues at just the right time.
The strength of this Cadfael mystery is the family dynamics of the Aspley family.
His motivation is not an unusual one in a Peters' romantic hero, but how it works out makes the story more interesting.
It's unfortunate that the mystery ends when it does, as I think the aftermath would have been fascinating to read.
Furthermore, the culprit's fate is an unusual one by Peters' standards.Unfortunately, the climax is dependent on a fortuitous chance , which is weird because Hugh and Cadfael engineer at least certain aspects of it and are clearly hoping that all will be revealed.
Really one of the better in this above-average series.
Or maybe it's just that I haven't read this in a while.
Lots of details about the political events going on outside of Shrewsbury, some really snarky bits about a local overly self-centered beauty who can't even set herself aside for the monks and novices of the monastery.
And best of all, the compassion and caring of many members of the monastic community for a young man, shoved into the community, and beset by mental terrors which rise up in his nightmares.
Brother Mark is a prominent character, always a treat.
Plus, nasty Brother Jerome gets a bit beat-up for being his usual spiteful and small-minded self.
I'm enjoying these Cadfael books so much. The quality of the writing just whisks you right into the period. The characters are brilliant too. I really liked Isouda, historical female characters really don't have to be wilting violets and she is far from being one.Fortunately, this series is all the better for taking a break between books. I have been known to gorge myself on book series before and then complaining when they finished too soon. I think that I may avoid that this time, but will be reading another soon.
Mystery at it’s best!This series presents early England as it really was uncomfortable, religiously strict and dirty. Yet for all that life is fascinating and all those emotions that afflict us today are present to beset these characters. The mystery is only part of the story, the character’s lives as the progress thru this series is even more interesting.
Not among the best of the Cadfael series, being much more of a story than an investigation, and relies on a little too much on unknown-to-the-reader facts to be able to resolve the case yourself. But it's sharply written, with interesting characters, and historical details that kept me turning pages.
Probably one of the best of the Brother Cadfael books I've read to-date. I liked that there were additional sympathetic characters that had important roles in the book. Although I had a pretty good idea whodunit, there were sufficient plot twists to keep it interesting. Well written with improving character development.
A young novice is (too) eager to fit into Monastry life. During the night he is hunted by nightmares, twisting and shouting in his sleep. Hence the Devils Novice. Cadfael has to find out what this novice has to do with the dead of a monk on his fathers estate. Loved the details and the full characters of this book.
Celý příběh se mi celkem líbil, Meriet mi od začátku byl sympatický. Akorát důvody, kvůli kterým se vraždilo mi připadaly jako z nějaké jiné knihy...Celkově OK, ale jiné příběhy bratra Cadfaela se mi líbily víc.
