https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/63699.Chickenhawk
Add this one to my long list of books about the American War in Vietnam.
Movies and books about Vietnam always have the Huey choppers coming and going from LZs delivering and picking up supplies and men.
But this is my first book that I have read that puts the reader in the head of the helicopter pilot, on the ground and in the air.
Moments in the lives and deaths of a group of men in a war.
Eventually there is the heroism of going on with life having experienced so much death.This book is so distressing, more than most war books I have read.
One of the most iconic sounds that people relate to the Vietnam War is the “womp, woosh” of American Huey helicopters.
Mason’s primary activity was flying a Huey helicopter that involved him in support of troops in the Bon Song Valley and Ia Drang Valley where in November, 1965 the United States won its first large scale encounter with the North Vietnamese.
For Mason, there were many times that he questioned why he was in Vietnam.In exploring the Vietnam War from the lens of a Huey pilot the reader will experience with Mason a myriad of situations.

This is the story of a helicopter pilot and his experiences from training to combat in Vietnam.
He was involved in the Ia Drang Valley battle so vividly described in the book and movie of We Were Soldiers Once...and Young: Ia Drang - the Battle That Changed the War in Vietnam.
He also has a great eye for some of the humorous, ludicrous and crazy aspects of men in war.
You get a gut-wrenching view into the expansion of U.S. combat involvement in the Vietnam War and the soul-destroying strategy of “search and destroy”.
What a terrific book.
More than a memoir, more than a war book.
It feels like a window back through time to the jungles of Southern Vietnam where we find a war that is hard to understand and even harder to justify.
While I found myself disliking Robert Mason, his book and his brutal honesty is hard not to respect.
He could have shaved much detail from this book and still had a hit on his hands, but he gave everything he had to Chickenhawk and it became a special piece of literature.
Chickenhawk is compelling from start to finish.For one thing, Mason's book contains one of the few really interesting accounts of military training written to date--in Mason's case, of his helicopter flight training.
In fact, the first section of the book is so vividly descriptive of the mechanics and procedures of military flight instruction that you finish it believing you could almost fly a helicopter yourself.
Partly what makes Chickenhawk such a unforgettable read is that Mason makes no effort either to doctor the facts about his time in Vietnam, his love of flying (even in combat), or about his own flaws and failures.
mason really puts you right in the action with amazing detail, personal (emotional and physical) experiences and some humor thrown in for good reading.
I thought his writing was brilliant as it really put you in the jungles of vietnam, provided experiences on so many levels (emotional, physical, and personal to him) and even in glimpses of the vietnamese people.
But as his experience as a pilot grew, I grew with him (at least in my imagination) and could follow more of the descriptions and images of the technical flying scenes with greater detail, thanks to mason and his writing style.
A precise chronological depiction of life as a helicopter pilot leading up to and during the Vietnam war.
I'll remember passages of extreme violence and gore, and how common these eventually become.
Sporadic action but constant fear, and hilarious dark military humor, from kids who had no business being there and only started to understand much later.
Maybe that was the point.
A year of flying into hot landing zones must've gotten old quick.
Maybe also too detailed for me in regards to the intricacies of flying helicopters, all of which went way over my head.
Just like helicopters.
Following Robert Mason into the early days of Vietnam as a young man determined to fly, you are also swept into the flood of technical information and skills necessary for a helicopter pilot.
The intelligence and awareness necessary to master flying a helicopter, much less under combat circumstances, is daunting and terrifying.
I can see why so many helicopter pilots have read this text, as Mason describes the terrifically challenging circumstances that he deals with for combat landings and take-offs, as well as all too human appreciation for the breakdown in the military and on a person's soul from struggling through such a terrible conflict.
I’ve never flown a helicopter, but after reading Chickenhawk I reckon I have the experience.The author is at his total best when he’s recalling his maneuvers getting in and out of “hot LZ’s” (to you and me, that’s landing zones where the enemy is shooting at you) and I could probably read about every single landing and takeoff detailed in here ten more times and not feel it’s been a waste of time.So this is first and foremost a story of derring-do and an ode to flying.
Yes since you're probably not a pilot and just want a good book...so I didn't know any of that until reading the new edition's afterword written decades later.
This is a great book, moreso since it is a true story the author calls his memoirs.I stumbled across this enthralling tale while reading a compilation of pilot memoirs (War in the Air, edited by Koontz) that had a memorable chapter from this book vividly burned into my memory, as it drops you into the middle of the Vietnam war chopper pilot's day to day life.
Mason’s narrative is well written, engaging, and often gripping, having the feel of an authentic account given its matter-of-fact, conversational, and unpretentious style that details both highs and lows, often portraying Mason in a poor or ambivalent light.
Chickenhawk is a powerful account of a soldier following his dreams to fly helicopters and finding himself on the front line.
The only weakness is around the wider, contextual framing - I would have liked the account to have some further discussion of the conflict, the unfolding politics guiding what was happening, and an overarching sense of the battles and how Mason’s missions fitted into them.
If you are interested in history, war or aviation, this book is a must.
Mr. Mason does an amazing job of covering the hardships they faced and the progression to get where you need to be to survive.
I now have a new appreciation for the men (and woman) who served in Nam, and am embarrassed for the way they were treated when they came back home.
I will never look at a Vet the same way.
Robert Mason helped me live that experience through his style and gripping memoir of that war.
Perhaps the best book about service in Vietnam,so many of the books about Vietnam are literary frauds,but this one rings true from start to finish.
I had long wondered what it was like for those who were in Vietnam and this account, by Robert Mason, a helicopter pilot, gives us a good look at the conditions which the troops over there had to work under, as well as the author's questioning of why they were there and how to tell friend from foe.
All in all, I think the book did a good job of describing conditions, as they were for this particular man, in his particular job.
Regardless of initial expectations, this is an excellent account of the life of a "slick" (transport) helicopter pilot.
Mason piloted the famed Huey helicopters during his tour of duty, initially with the 1st Cav (yes, he did participate in the Ia Drang Valley battle, popularly known through the We Were Soldiers movie).The last part of his Vietnam tour was with a unit called the Prospectors, and his account of his stay there is quite astounding and very different than the 1st Cav.As with a lot of Vietnam veterans, his return from the war to civilian life was very difficult, with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder that lasted decades.
Chickenhawk - Robert MasonThis is a raw recounting of his service as a Huey pilot during the Vietnam War.The book shows the skill & bravery the pilots showed in this new style of warfare.He also doesn't hide the impact the brutality had on his psyche.9.5/10#NicksMiniReview https://t.co/sq95tt8BvB
A revelation occurs when Mr. Mason acknowledges that neither JFK nor LBJ used Dr. Fall’s experience nor his books to better understand the Vietnamese as a people – Dr. Fall had embedded with the French in the early 1950’s and wrote a Historically significant accounting of the differences of the Vietnamese people and of how the French were losing the effort.
Mr. Mason wrote a truthful and outstanding book of his experiences.
In no way does this diminish the significance of the book.I most certainly appreciated the new “Afterward” Mr. Mason inserted some 20+ years later after the first edition of this book.
I am amazed that Bob was able to remember all of the details about the war which he did.
I protested against the war after Bob's return which caused fights in my family because my stepbrother was over there and he reported to my Dad and stepmother that the bombing against the troops increased every time there was a protest in the U.S. I realize that Bob went to Viet Nam because he wanted to fly helicopters and wasn't truly aware of the political disapproval which would come later, even at his sister's wedding.
From a solider's point of view straight up including lots of little details from the description of punji sticks in the landing zone to the technical aspects of flying a helicopter that wouldn't make it into an historial account but here help build up a vivid and very real picture of life in a war zone.
Like with the previous book Once a Warrior King I just read I did find the author writing himself up a little bit while not completely coming out with all the indiscretions he saw ( Interesting to note the differences the between the two books).
I came to the book Chickenhawk because I read We Were Soldiers Once...
His chapter on Ia Drang Valley was particularly compelling because of my recent reading of General Harold G.
Moore's book.
The only comment I have is that I am of the same generation as Robert Mason and while reading I kept reflecting back to where I was from June of 64 to July 65 while he was in training and then from September 65 to August 66 while Robert Mason was flying his 1000 missions in Vietnam.
I am immensely honored to have read Chickenhawk.
It was loaned to me very graciously, many years ago, and once I got my own copy I have never stopped re-reading it.
You can feel how agonizingly vulnerable a 2 minute engine start makes you, or how slow 120 knots is compared to bullets.We all say we could never do something like this, but the truth is that we could and we would if the shit really hit the fan.
And then, like Bob Mason, we could spend years trying to figure out how everything got so....well, shitty.
This was an excellent book about a Huey pilot in Vietnam.
What I found most intriguing was how a regular guy who chose to fly in the army for a living began humbly enough, and then gets throw into the worst of the war instantly.
I think it captured the insanity of (that) war perfectly.
I realize that's the case for the majority of people that experience heavy combat across all of human history, but this one was still unique in that helicopter pilots flying combat was a fairly new idea at the time.
This book has its rightful place among Vietnam War memoirs.
One of the very best books to come out of the Vietnam war.
He is searingly honest regarding the sex and drugs stuff - and comes over as a paid up member of the human race.
This would make a perfect present for an older teenage boy you are struggling to get to love reading and books.
There is nothing that should worry any parent, but the book is an honest account of one young man's experiences, it doesn't condone drugs, illicit sex or violence but is a great fast paced read.
This is a great read for Vietnam Veterans or those interested in how it really was.
Surely today's helicopter pilots would enjoy technical and tactical comparisons of that era to their much advanced ships today.A veteran of more than 1,000 combat missions, Robert Mason's personal account is written by a real person with real life events of what he did, how he felt about it, and how it affected him, his family and those he served with.
Here is the truth about the helicopter war in Vietnam.Sadly his homecoming was no more welcomed by society than my own.
I began my flying career in 1987 hueys, learning the trade from expereinced Vietnam era pilots. So reading this was like sitting on one of my old warrant officer's knees as a young lieutenant.Mostly an accurate depiction of what I heard as a series of 'and there I was' stories, in one book. The most interesting part to me was the afterward, and the update on the author's life- the story that told of his reintegration into 'the world' spoke volumes.
i wrestled with becoming a helicopter pilot, ultimately the extra year it required kept me from doing it , and quite probably kept me alive. i lived in the entire region described in this book for 2 years, albeit a year after the descriptions of conflict. except for dispatches no book has come closer to my own universe in vietnam.
A great book about a helicopter pilot in Vietnam. Detailed and accurate. Some white-knuckle heroics and honest look at the military machine in action. A lot of action, but short on what the rest of the story is. I didn't see a whole lot about what the pilot thought about the war or how he dealt with his feelings about it and the controversy surrounding it. If you're a vet, you'll like it.
A direct, honest, unpretentious, highly-informative and well-written story -- I couldn't put it down until I was through. Robert Mason is a genuine American hero - and this assessment comes from someone who was 100% against the war and, thank G-d, never had to go.
This book kept me on the edge of my seat throughout. Never got bored with it. Robert Mason wrote it in a way where even non-military personnel can understand what's happening. I loved it.
