https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78605.The_Self_Sufficient_Life_and_How_to_Live_It
I never want to be a farmer. It is HELLA hard work. But, when the zombies come, I will be ready. oh, I will be ready.
John Seymour outlines and describes the steps one can take to a more self-sufficient and, by his account, fulfilling lifestyle.
The brilliance of this book really comes out in its scope.
Whether you just want to know the nuances of 'living off the land,' want to act on your aspirations, or just want to dream about a different kind of life than the one you live today, I highly recommend picking up The Self-sufficient Life and How to Live it.
I've already read through this book twice and still feel as though I haven't uncovered all there is to find in its pages.
If there were some sort of world crisis and I had to live on just my property and my hard work, this is the book that I would consult.
It's not so much of a survivalist manual, but how to live well in a self sufficient way for a long period of time.
It teaches you how to do everything from planning and preparing your land, to growing crops, animal care (and slaughter), canning, living with zero waste....everything.
My husband and I have a fantasy that one day we will buy a farm and grow our own food (and have pet goats and pigs). So this book lives on our coffee table, where I can easily dive into it after a tough day in the office.
This has recently been my back to basic bible. With today's everything being unsure, I like how John Seymour shares how to start a self sufficient lifestyle. He describes how, when, where to start certain vegetables, raising live stock where and how to organize it all. I enjoy reading about the simple household crafts needed in the home. He provides illustrations for a back to basic lifestyle.
Still, if you're serious about any of this I think you may want to do further research.The author makes some comments about a true homestead having no waste and I probably took the comment too literally but I do have to wonder how that is achieved.
I find it very difficult to imagine a life with no waste being a reality but it is a wonderful dream.
If you dream of buying a small plot of land and raising your own food and animals this is a book chock full of good old fashioned info.
These are the two “systems” that support us; we might call them the “self-reliance system” and the “organization system.” The former tends to breed self-reliant men and women; the latter tends to produce organization men and women.
All existing societies support themselves by a mixture of the two systems; but the proportions vary…John Seymour can tell us how to help ourselves, and in this book he does tell us.
He is one of the great pioneers of self-sufficiency.
Total self-sufficiency is as unbalanced and ultimately stultifying as total organization.
If you dream about moving out into the country and living off the land, this is a great book. I bought it for Mark years ago and we loved reading through it, choosing what kind of chickens and pigs we would have, what vegetables we would grow, etc. It's not really an in-depth sort of book. I think it's better for dreaming and planning than for when you're actually trying to live self-sufficiently. John Seymour is really opinionated and I love it when he throws in his 2 cents. Love, love, love this book.
Didn't quite expect this to be an encyclopedically written book on farming, but wasn't turned off by this.
The topics covered were pretty exhaustive, and this is definitely a must-buy guide for anyone looking into farming.
It covers practical implementation of maintaining 1, 5, and larger acre farms.
Note: this book doesn't expect you to be 100% self-sufficient.
Outdated - There has been a lot of advances in farming, especially in energy production, that have not been covered.
Every farm is designed around raising animals for meat.Perhaps this book can be valuable to old-fashioned farmers in certain climates, but to the rest of the world, it's worth a skim at best.
"Concise" just about covers it. "Brief" would have been accurate, too. Not enough information to go out and actually make apple cider or keep animals, but enough to appreciate if it's something you want to learn more about. Great collection. In the same spirit as Forgotten Household Crafts, just like a museum in a book.
This is a fascinating book on how to live a self-sufficient life--doing just about everything one would need to do to survive without the benefits of the outside world.It is a romantic picture, though not likely as simple as one would hope. This appears to be a good introduction to many topics, but would require much more extensive reading and further resources to make a real go of it.
When I feel like the zombie apocalypse is upon us, I will calmly visit my local library and withdrawal this book. I will NOT pay my fines and if Gladys wants to get all snippy with me, she'll finally get a piece of my mind.
Wow, this book is so full of information! I didn't get through all of it, but will revisit. Really like Seymour's writing.
In practice, like the natural systems that it echoes, High Farming is more complicated than that, with each crop and livestock animal fitting in like a cog or gear, but once in place it works almost like a perpetual motion machine, with the farmer acting as husbandman, greasing the bearings of the great machine and keeping down the weeds.As do most self-sufficiency books, this one contains chapters on gardening, livestock, wild food, cooking and food preservation, energy/waste, and crafts/skills.
Seymour covers all topics on several levels – urban, suburban, small (1-5 acre) farm, and large scale, explaining, from experience, what is feasible and what isn't.He also takes things a step further than many SS books we've read.
Would like to read when I'm seriously able to engage a self-sufficient life. Flipped through the book and only reviewed parts of it.
I'd heard so many good things about this book, which probably added to my disappointment.
I jumped around in the book, reading the topics that most interested me.
This book feels like a launch point for Google searches instead of a trusty reference in and of itself.But it was the outdated canning information that got me.
No acid added to tomatoes, and no water bath canning for jams -- just covering with wax paper.
It made me wonder what else here might be terribly outdated or potentially hazardous, and I gave up on reading.
John Seymour first published this in 1976.
Though it has gone through a couple revisions since, I would argue Seymour was way ahead of his time (i.e. encouraging folks to eschew plastic as much as possible so as to not feed the oil baron coffers).
The book was almost like an encyclopedia, a reference for just about anything you might want to try.
From raising the majority of your own food to skinning a rabbit and making beer, this book has an opinion about most of it.
The illustrations were outstanding and enhanced the text greatly (and in this regard is better than my true DIY favorite, Carla Emory's Encyclopedia of Country Living).
This is a good overview of plain, old-fashioned subsistence farming.
If that's what you're looking for, and you're planning to plant in rows with basic crop rotation as your only nod toward sustainable farming, this is your book.
I personally lean more toward the edible landscape style of gardening, hence the three stars.
It does give a lot of really solid, basic information about almost everything you would need to think about to be self-sufficient, so it's a great addition to your library.
It doesn't give enough information to be a stand alone, comprehensive guide, but it's as close to it as I've seen so far.
Seymour is a wonderful writer of all things self-sufficient when it comes to the lifestyle. This book is traditionally beautiful in the manner of classic coffee table books: lavishly and beautifully illustrated, with concise yet highly informative text drawing from a multitude of subjects regarding self-sufficiency; everything is touched on briefly, from raising and milking a small cow or goat herd to planting an organic garden to designing a multipurpose furnace/stove. This book tickled my imagination even as it left me wanting more.
Out of the various reference books I own, this is the one that gets used the most often. From it's clean and straightforward writing style to it's clearly rendered drawings, John Syemour's The Self-Sufficient Life and How to Live It is packed full of great ideas that anyone can quickly comprehend and execute. Being a very visual person, the illustrations in this book made everything abundantly clear and even let me see ways I could modify some of the approaches to better suit my property. I highly recommend this book to anyone who wants to live the self-sufficient life.
I need glitz.
I need loads of pictures and a magazine layout.
Yes, I just called myself out as having ADD.This book is full of great information though!
It was interesting to know that farmhouses try to face due south so they take advantage of sunlight and pantries are always put in the north facing storeroom.
My house faces north and my front porch is 10 degrees cooler than the rest of my house.
This book is full of info like that.
If you want to learn how to store harvest, make wine, build an outhouse or take advantage of the sun/wind/rain...
then this book will teach you.
Sebagai panduan praktis bagi pembaca atau awam dalam membantu mengatasi masalah perubahan iklim yang secara perlahan dialami oleh kita di muka bumi ini.Bagaimana kita berperilaku mulai dari kebun atau taman disekitar kita, mengkonsumsi makanan dari alam, menggunakan dan memanfaatkan energi dan sampah yang ada. dan hal-hal yang yang dapat memberikan solusi dari gejala terjadinya perubahan iklim di masa mendatang.
Great book, if that is what you are into. It covers so many areas of homesteading/self-sufficient living. I wanted to read it just to get an idea about how to put all my interests together--how to make them work well together and even to get an idea of how much work would be involved/what life would be like if I did do all those things. I think this book helped perfectly well for that. I will purchase it for sure.
When I eventually escape from the city and have my little farmhouse and acreage, this book will be in the first box I unpack. Quite simply, this book contains at least something on EVERYthing one needs to know to squeak out a living on the land. While I don't know that I want to go to the extremes that John Seymour does in this book (grey toilets are out, thank you very much), it is nice knowing I could be a complete radical if I wanted to.
OK, so now I need to buy a house in the country so I can start composting for that organic garden, build my own outbuildings, make some wine, brew some beer, bake some bread and learn to play the ukulele. Seriously, though, this has some great ideas for novice, city-dwelling gardeners like myself and very practical advice about crop rotation and what plants like what soil. This will definitely become a reference book.
A good thing to read if you like to daydream about getting an acre off somewhere away from the hustle & bustle on which you can keep some chickens and tend the land and have some homebrew fermenting away out back.It's a little quick to gloss over the details, but that allows it to cover more ground. It's also a bit UK-centric in many parts, which makes it less-useful to people outside of the isles.
This book made me want to move out to the middle of nowhere and live off of the fat of the land. It tells you how to thrive and survive on your blood, sweat, tears, and a can-do attitude. After reading this I found out he has a self-sufficiency school and really wanted to go to it until I found out it was in Ireland. It's somewhat of a dry read unless you're interested in horticulture, animal husbandry, etc.
Another favorite on this topic, absolutely covers everything except perhaps oddly leaves out growing black beans. Ha! Brits. John Seymour was a philosopher at heart, it is obvious from the first chapter. His purpose in this book is not just to convey facts but change your world view; from that of observer to that of an actively engaged organism. Plus, damn good detail. Nice and neatly done.
I actually, didn't read through it word for word; however, it's one of those reference manuals that you want to buy and keep on hand, to refer to often! Info. in depth! Loved it! I know, I am such a hick! I realize you can't do it all at once, so I'm just going to start a project at a time, so excited! The only way you learn how to do things is try!
Well Ive come to thing sustainability is better than sulf sufficiency. I really need to actually leave the house and some self sufferers wont be able to coz of the work they have to do. Interesting though, but all for northern hemisphere, and also we aren't meant to dig over our soils here coz we have some of the shittiest soil in the WORLD apparently from perth to esperance
