https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/330.On_Beyond_Zebra_
The verses go on knitting a web intertwined with another web of imaginations.The poem flows. A nice one with mellifluous words.There are letters beyond Z. Yes, there's a whole new world out there.Takes you to a land of an imaginary language with never before heard words that are figments of a child's imagination.PS : Ritu, Sam might present us with a thoroughgoing Sam-made language like Greg Heffley and Rowley.
Opens with two mutants: Conrad Cornelius o'Donald o'Dell, a kid with a comb-over, and the narrator, some weirdo who has a fascination for buttocks.
On panel one, Weirdo touches his buttocks while some mangy mutt that snuck into the classroom looks on.
In panel two we learn that Conrad is a know-it-all while Weirdo leans in for a good look at the zebra's buttocks.
(view spoiler)[On panel three we observe that Weirdo is part owl and capable of impossible head turning contortions.
Panel four shows some inappropriate buttocks touching as Weirdo tries to feed Conrad to the Yuzz-a-ma-Tuzz.
As a kid I loved weird words and other linguistic hijinx, and so it's no surprise that On Beyond Zebra was on the short list of favorite Seuss books.
(What did Dr. Seuss have against plants, anyway?
Are they too sessile and boring for kids?) Years later I was still making up new letters for words the brother and I had invented.An aside: To this day I cannot hear the word grotto without thinking of the Yekko singing away, down in his dim cave beneath branching Gothic arches.
My husband told me that we should read this book. I must say I couldn't think of anything from the title.We were browsing though the pages and suddenly he says that at the end of this book, there is a list of alphabets for those who don't stop at Z.I couldn't wait reading this book with him.This book is educational and one of it's own kind, making someone's imagination wide and open.A book that will teach Sam never to stop at anything, specially at Z. Everyone's stopping at Z but no no, not Sam.
After a short break, we are once again picking up from where we left off on our Dr. Seuss library marathon. This is a wonderful book to encourage an active imagination. My 4-year-old enjoyed it more than my 6-year-old, which is funny since he can not yet read as his brother does. I do not remember reading this when I was a child but I know I would have loved it. It makes me think of the inital stirrings I felt when I first read Tolkien and the language he created.
I believe I had this memorized by the time I was three. When my little brother was old enough, I got to recite it to him. I didn't need the pages for the words, just the pictures.
Karena justru setelah huruf Z lah mengabjad dimulai!Diawali dengan huruf YUZZ untuk mengeja Yuzz-a-ma-Tuzz, dilanjutkan dengan WUM untuk mengeja Wumbus, sejenis paus yang tinggal di atas bukit dan tidak pernah turun kecuali saat harus mengisi ulang air untuk disemprotkan di atas kepalanya.Setelah itu ada UM yang digunakan untuk mengeja Umbus, sejenis sapi dengan satu kepala dan satu ekor, namun badannya panjang, dan memiliki 98 hingga 99 puting susu sehingga untuk memerahnya memerlukan banyak ember.
And since HERE is too NEAR and out THERE is too FAR, they are too scared to roost where-so-ever they are.Di bagian akhir buku, Dr. Seuss menuliskan 19 huruf beserta cara membacanya dan kegunaannya dalam kata.
True Rating: 3.5 (Leaning towards 3)After reading such a sad and dark story, I needed something to cheer me up and get me out of a funk so I decided to read Dr. Seuss which made perfect sense to bring back the inner child in me.I was rather disappointed by this book and it's mainly because I am no longer a child.
I feel like I'm being a little bit cruel but when it comes to Dr. Seuss, there is so many books that are original and creative and this definitely does not live to my expectations.
I feel like if I were a kid I would enjoy it more but this was such a disappointment.
Dr. Seuss proves he's the Einstein of kidlit with this book. It took a while for the world to "get" E=mc², blowing the roof off Newtonian physics. Dr. Seuss blows the roof off the alphabet and language itself with this book.Cool kidlit scholar Philip Nel writes in Dr. Seuss: American Icon, "...On Beyond Zebra is Seuss's Finnegans Wake." 'Nuff said?
The letters Dr. Seuss added after Z were funny.
This book is really amazing... it inspires you to think outside the box and to not accept things just the way they are, but go beyond them, explore and wonder. I LOVE IT!
A classic for showing kids how to think beyond the normal...
lots of big funny words
It told me that there existed a completely unknown world outside of my limited experience, and that I could discover that world and look forward to amazing adventures.
Yes, of course it will, as it makes children think for themselves and reconsider the limits that they assume are fixed and immobile.
The knowledge of things beyond our experience brings hard work, pain and disappointment, and maybe even death, just as that fruit did, but it also brings life, love, discovery and adventure.Or maybe the book is just a funny collection of strange drawings and verse that confuses young minds trying to memorize things and parrot them back to an instructor.
Don't settle thinking you know everything, but be curious, learn, grow, improve.Here are a few fun quotes from the book:"'I know all the twenty-six letters like that...through to Z is for Zebra.
Because Z is as far as the alphabet goes.'""'Most people stop with the Z but not me!
In the places I go there are things that I see that I never could spell if I stopped with the Z.""When you go beyond Zebra, Who knows...?
There's no telling what wonderful things you might find yourself spelling.
There's no end to the things you might know, depending on how far beyond Zebra you go."
I like the idea of this book because it encourages the reader to think outside the box.
The alphabet is 26 letters, but who says we have to stop there.
There are many different letters in world and this book couple help inspire students to look and see what other ways of spelling and writing there are in the world.
I could see this book being difficult to read for some people because there are many made up words, but I think readers would like the challenge of figuring out how to pronounce the words.
Reading this aloud will be fun for kids.
by Dr. Seuss.
This story is about two boys writing out the alphabet and when they stop at the letter z and one boy tells the other that there are so many things you are missing when you stop at the letter z.
He goes on to show him many of the other letters and the things they represent that exist if you go past the letter z.
I really enjoyed this book.
I have read a lot of Dr. Seuss but I had never read this one.
I thought it was really cute and would be something that older and younger kids would enjoy.
This book is colorful and full of fun images. It is about Conrad who decides that there needs to be more letter in the alphabet. The book follows him in his creation of his own alphabet and his own animals to remembers the letter by. This is a fun book to share with children and overall well written.
We loved Dr. Seuss so much growing up, I've been surprised by how many I actually missed! This was is quite funny and sort of an advanced take on There's a Wocket in my Pocket. My 5-year-old didn't get it; just a lot of funny made up words for him. But my 9-year-old was intrigued and it got him thinking creatively.
This book is delightful and brilliantly illustrated, of course. It is also a linguistic treat, even for adult readers or listeners. Why do we only have 26 letters in our alphabet, anyway? We need more, and Seuss shows us why.
Another gem by Seuss! Similar to "There's a Wocket in my Pocket" and "How Lucky You are," this book introduces the reader to a broad new world of possible creatures and places - humbling them from the possibility of pride at their knowledge, and encouraging them to broaden their horizons!
Pending.
A story about a list of letters that don't stop at the letter Z. An entirely new words, worlds are created to trip the tongue of the reader, and expand the imagination.
On beyond imagination :)Fun read and so witty and imaginative as all Dr.Seuss' books , Loved it ❤️
Children's books aren't only for children. This one proves that.
I suspect I will read this and reread this several times a year for the rest of my life.
3 3/4 stars
Pure imaginative joy -- you'll smile every time you turn the page!
Amazingly clever and creative!!!
I think I'd rate this higher if I read again when my kids were older. Otherwise, a fun read!
