https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/931986.Stigma
So, of course, this quote Goffman finds along the way from someone with a stigma stopped me."One day I suddenly realised that I had become so self-conscious and afraid of all strange children that, like animals, they knew I was afraid, so that even the mildest and most amiable of them were automatically prompted to derision by my own shrinking and dread."Here are some quotes.Society establishes the means of categorizing persons and the complement of attributes felt to be ordinary and natural for members of each of these categories.
This is written in an unnecessarily pedantic and obscure (read: Academic English at it worst) style. While the subject is fascinating, the author took great pains to present it in a horrifically dry and unpalatable way.
The actual correspondence of the virtual identity one reads off of a person's bodily presence in a certain social context, to that person's larger social identity, is necessary to what Goffman calls discrediting.
The discredited person has already been successfully "read" as having a social identity that motivates many other pejorative meanings for most others in a given society.
Reading Stigma in 2009, with the benefit of having Goffman's later work on hand (e.g., Frame Analysis) it becomes clear that Goffman's own descriptive project as outlined in the essay is entangled in the interest-bound attempt to discover the truth as any stigmatized individual seeking a coherent picture of herself and the world.
Goffman is the unsung father of queer theory. Just as Gender Trouble wouldn't exist without The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life, The Trouble with Normal wouldn't exist without this book. Goffman is really good at analytically breaking down and assigning specialized vocabulary to complex social processes in a way that seems commonsensical. Even though this book was written in the 1960s, it is still relevant today.
This book was terribly boring, but it had this one great example in it about how people treat someone when they just find out about their stigma.
They made up an example of someone having a quiggle.
People won't know what to say so they ask totally inappropriate questions like "how do you bathe with that quiggle?" and then they try to related it to their own life so it wont seem like they're making a big deal out of it, hence "my uncle had a quiggle!" It's totally true and it was really funny.
My friends and I wandered around asking each other inapproprate questions about each other's quiggles for a month.
the word "disidentify" shows up here, but i don't know if it's in communication with munoz' usage since i've yet to read *disidentifications*.
he's really obsessed with the quotidian navigations of things that do kind of seem incredibly obvious; regardless the prose-style, very dated, is perhaps one of the most charming things i've read recently.
near the end of the book goffman considers the invaginative boundary-blurring qualities of the stigmatized/normalized in a way that for me flashed back (really forward) to reading robert mcruer in *crip theory* detailing the artivist project involving those "i have hiv" t-shirts.
Наприклад, читання Орієнталізм нічого нового не дає тому, хто чув дайджестові виклади цієї книги.Але з цим дослідженням справа зовсім не така проста.
Наприклад, поступати в університет з документами про сільські школи (які раніше давали пільги) не соромилися, а деколи - спеціально такі документи отримували.
(Цікаво, що в польському перекладі не використовується поняття normalny, а normals: гарний спосіб підкреслити, що нормальність є соціальним конструктом.) Як зазначила автор передмови до цієї книги, І.Ґофман, як і Г.Ґарфінкель та Г.Бекер, наче пишуть про девіантів, але насправді описують нормальних людей, адже саме через аналіз "відхилень" можна побачити рутини, якими твориться соціальна реальність.Ця праця чимось нагадує Банальність зла: книга, про яку всі чули, але мало хто читав.
I was similarily impressed with Stigma.Where "Asylums" dealt with the relationship of individuals and institutions, "Stigma" deals more with inter personal relationships.
Then you learn to control disclosure of information about your stigma, then you learn to "pass" as someone without a stigma and then you learn how to "voluntarily disclose" your stigma.I don't have a degree in sociology, so I'm not sure about the theoretical backgrounding of this approach, but it made sense to me.The best part of this book was the end, where Goffman argues (persuaively, I thought) that even "Normal" people have to deal with some sort of stigma at some time in their life.
I read this book because I'm starting a PhD in Sociology this fall and I'd read other Goffman texts, and they had this book at Borders, so I figured it was probably a big deal in Sociology.
What I learned were a few keywords to use when discussing stigma, and since this guy is a big deal in Social sciences, that should help me write a paragraph or two about stigma as a socially constructed problem.
It's a reasonable place to start.I'm glad I read this to see where the social science study of stigma has come from, but I'm appreciative that today we have different perspectives and frameworks with which to study stigma.

Perhaps a bit too intellectual for me overall but quite academically and well written book about the concepts of stigma.
What and how does labelling yourself with that stigma influence the way you perceive yourself and the way in which you interact in society.
As a Pakistani / Kashmiri living in England that will also have a certain stigma with it and perhaps subconsciously influenced the way I interact at home and work etc vis a vis how I would interact if I was a WASP in this country.
Sections covered in the book are stigma and social identity, information control, group alignment and ego identity and the self and its other and deviations from the norm.
A dated book with surprisingly slightly-dated ideas about Identity. I enjoyed the mid-century feel of the language and examples used, though some of the examples were harder for me to imagine than others (probably due to the passage of 60 years since the examples were written). The book was brief, which was nice for being one of several required books for one class. Overall a brief, concise, dated but still relevant book.
A really great overview of the effects of stigma and how it's produced in society. If you read modern texts on similar subjects, Goffman is cited EVERYWHERE! A lot of the language is quite outdated now, but I liked the personal touch of all the anecdotes throughout.
Essa estigmatização pode ser tanto na aparência (deficiências físicas, anomalias genéticas) como no comportamento social (verdugos, prostitutas, drogados, ex-presidiários, doentes mentais, gays, etc...).
O autor estuda como se dá essa estigmatização e a reação dos estigmatizados frente a essa "marca social".
O que torna o livro rico, entretanto, são as centenas de relatos das pessoas que sofrem o estigma social.
Embora escrito na década de 40, muitos dos relatos e declarações continuam assombrosamente atuais.
Será que isso quer dizer que, a respeito das pessoas marginalizadas, a sociedade avançou muito pouco ou nenhum pouco neste quesito?
Un libro muy aburrido acerca de las personas que tienen un estigma (cualquiera que sea éste, de hecho es tan amplio el uso que le da a la palabra que prácticamente si no se es un hombre blanco adinerado padre de familia y deportista, uno lleva consigo un estigma) La manera en que se relaciona el estigmatizado consigo mismo, con su familia, sus amigos y con la sociedad y viceversa.
Las maneras en que viven, sobrellevan, presumen u ocultan su estigma.
Me costó mucho terminarlo a pesar de ser un libro pequeño porque es bastante tedioso y me ganaba el sueño.
Toplum içinde "farklı" ya da eksik olarak belli kalıplara sokulan ve peşin yargılarla mücadele etmeyen çalışan insanlar ve karşı cephede sözde normal insanlar...Sosyal hayatın çetrefilli yönleri ve toplumsal kalıpların bireysel hayatlarda ne kadarda etkili bir unsur olduğunu gözler önüne seren insanın kafasında soru işareti oluşturan bir çalışmaydı.Size olanı sunan ancak seçeceğiniz yolun tercihini size sunan, bir nevi durum değerlendirmesiydi.
A classic text, written in the 1960s. Our language has changed, but the key points have not. We all walk around each day trying to decide what to reveal and what to hide. What is safe to disclose, because it affords us the privilege of membership? And when is it best to hide the stigma, in an effort to “pass” as one of the “normals”?
I swear everyone in my university department is going through a protracted breakdown, but they're all too tactful to ever reveal this collective stigma (which is, ironically, what brought them to the department to begin with), so they instead gather around the tea room eating weenie dogs and talking about actor network theory and pizza toppings.This is what I've gotten from Goffman.
No me gustó este libro. Aunque tiene conceptos importantes por los que sí valió la pena leerlo, me molestó mucho la manera en la que está escrito. No me agradó esa distinción de "Nosotros los normales" y "ellos los estigmatizados".Por otro lado, me parece que describe bien la crueldad de los seres humanos hacia las personas con estigmas. La lectura de este libro es pesada y a ratos aburrida.
"El estigma implica no tanto un conjunto de individuos concretos separables en dos grupos, los estigmatizados y los normales, como un penetrante proceso social de dos roles en el cual cada individuo participa en ambos roles, al menos en ciertos contextos y en algunas fases de la vida. El normal y el estigmatizado no son personas, sino, más bien, perspectivas"
This is a brilliant book because of Goffman's clear style and judicious use of evidence. It is a must read in our current heated climate of 'identity politics' and 'political correctness'. Goffman treats these issues sanely, moderately, rationally and sympathetically.
this book was very awesome because it described all about stigma theory
據說是當代美國社會學大師的作品, 但是看的似懂非懂的.書中提到一些可能被社會大眾貼標的人在混居環境中如何自處. 在這本書寫作的年代, 各項歧視可能都是很直接的吧! 現在的社會應該仍然有些不公平的對待, 但應相對地好很多吧!
A thought provoking Goffman which leaves one with plenty of information to assimilate and attempt to make answers out of.
One of the fathers of sociology, good read.
One of those books that changes your worldview completely and makes the awful things you’ve done in the past come haunting you. Indeed, in the end, we are all stigmatized in one way or another.
I love this book, awesome to use if you need a reference relating to 'the norms', 'stigma' and 'discrimmination'. Especially when you want a statement to relate.Heavy read but worth it!
moi recomendable tanto dende o punto de vista antropolóxico como dende o activista
This reads like an old book - dull in the same way that a heavy-research book is - but did have some interesting points to make.
A very theoretical, but not very technical, yet engaging, look at stigmatized persons and groups. A quick, fun read by a great social science writer.
