https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3272165-bad-science
Let me explain how I came to read it.A couple of weeks ago there was a newspaper article – no, a flood of newspaper articles all over my social media feeds – all about research that proved that you get cancer by bad luck rather than any of that other crap you thought you got cancer from – you know, ‘life style’, smoking, stuff like that.
When people tell you that you need to do more than this eating food and moving your arse occassionally, they are selling you something, and the most likely thing they are selling you is bullshit.

Truly a worthwhile read, one up for us against big Pharma!Until recently this book was not available in the US as books that attack big Pharma, alternative medicine gurus (especially the tv variety) and sacred cows like the MMR-Autism myth get sued just to stop publication even if there is no hope of winning the suit.
This is an important book and illuminates the part the media plays in the dissemination of information - truths, half-truths and outright (but very profitable) lies in the medical, health and nutrition fields and why we are taken in.
The book is too.
He traces the history of all sorts of wild, so-called "science-based" gimmicks, like "Brain Gym", homeopathy, anti-oxidants and nutritionists.
Goldacre analyzes why people like to believe in stupid things.
Goldacre traces the history of the anti-vaccine movement, starting with paper written by Dr. Anthony Wakefield on the relationship between the MMR vaccine (Measles, Mumps, Rubella) and autism in children.
While the paper was truly bad, Goldacre finds most of the fault in the anti-MMR scare not in the paper itself, but in the media frenzy that followed it.
Throughout this book, Goldacre talks about manipulation possibilities for clinical trials, ways that they (drug companies, etc) can make the product they are testing (and spending many millions of dollars to develop) look as beneficial as possible.
All these methods of manipulating the results or making it hard for people to find out what was actually in the study, and yet Goldacre still puts a lot of credence and trust in published studies in general.
I just felt that assuming that reports are going to accurately reflect EXACTLY what was tested is a stretch, especially when we're talking about people and companies with a financial stake in marketing their product, and questionable, shady ethics.
Naturally, everyone goes on buying the fishoil pills and Randy buys another swimming pool, this one made in the shape of a haddock, and Ben Goodacre writes some even angrier columns about it and feels marginally better, just as Randy’s customers do.Knockabout aside, this book exposes the shoddy thinking and egregious lust for non-existent breakthroughs, miracle cures and health horror stories which bedevil the British press and which are perpetrated by humanities graduates who do not understand scientific method or basic maths.
I'm not sure I agree with him that this is the fault of humanities-trained journalists who think science is subjective and therefore feel justified in giving equal time to totally unqualified "experts," but there's no question the media's habit of reporting shaky sensational findings and completely ignoring follow up studies showing the original stories were in error is seriously hazardous to our health.It was also interesting to hear his theory that part of the reason that pharmaceutical companies are prone to sensationalizing mediocre results is because the low-hanging medical fruit has already been harvested.
One chapter (on the MRSA debacle in UK hospitals) actually brought tears to my eyes.Lessons this book illustrates extremely well:1.
If medical 'research' has only been published in a colour Sunday supplement in a tabloid newspaper, it's most likely not worth the paper it's written on.There are many other lessons to take away from this book but if I add more I run the risk of just paraphrasing the entire book and the author has explained it all a hundred times better than I could.
It is an interesting book if you can get over the shoddy editing and Goldacres' pomp and ceremony.Goldacre insists that this should be "an entertaining read" but it just falls short.
For all of his insistence that "Humanities graduates" (the journalists) don't have the knowledge and wherewithal to write scientific news reports, Goldacre and his fancy-pants BSc perhaps should have hired one to help him write an entertaining non-fiction book.Which brings me to my final gripe about the book.
Actually, Ben Goldacre is just condescending.
This is a great pity because these are the very audience he has written this "entertaining read" for.
وفي النهاية يركز بشكل خاص على انتقاد دور وسائل الإعلام في تضليل العامة، خصوصاً فيما يتلعق بالتطعيم الثلاثي والربط الخاطئ بينه وبين إصابة الطفل بالتوحد وكيف أدى هذا إلى تفشي الحصبة في بعد الأماكن بعد أن كانت مرضاً لا يسمع به.عندما كنت في كلية الطب، كانت إحدى المواد التي درسناها تتعلق بـ«الطب المسند بالدليل» ولم ندرك أهمية هذه المادة إلا قبل التخرج بقليل.
While Goldacre does give some very good examples, he spends a lot of time teaching the reader how to spot bad science specifically in the field of medicine.
The refresher was needed.As Goldacre so aptly shows, numbers can easily lie, especially when blasted on headlines & interpreted badly to sell the news through sensationalism.
That's tough on the people involved, but not statistically significant.He takes both homeopathy & big pharma to task, shows where & how both lie.
It explains a lot about all sorts of faith healing.He spends quite a bit of time showing the media irresponsibility when they cause public panics especially in the case of the MMR vaccine.
I can do it too: "The people who [write books like Bad Science] are [science graduates] with no understanding of [the important things in life], who wear their ignorance as a badge of honour.
I have not experienced any increase in anxiety, or that much trumpeted criticism that SSRIs make people want to kill themselves.) So I'm probably too biased to accept a word that Goldacre says on the subject, even forgetting the fact that a close relative has done research into antidepressants and I typed up their results!
HOW TO IMMUNISE YOURSELF FROM DELUSION It seems a bit gratuitous to write the 223rd review (relevant to uk amazon site) of Ben Goldacres book "Bad Science" but having decided that it would be more of a fault not to recognise the brilliance of his book I'll go ahead any way.The Bad Science that particularly irks Goldacre and takes up the bulk of his book is that which relates to the medical sphere.
Hopefully this aspect of his writings will be explored further in a later book.Totally recommended, Goldacre is an effortlessly witty writer and by some slight of hand.
The guy doing the audiobook has a ton of passion.---------------------Bad Science is an excellent book about how to approach news articles about scientific papers.
He goes over what flaws to look out for in the studies themselves, as well as the common ways journalists completely screw up reporting about subjects they don't always understand.
:pThe most interesting bit to me, as someone who is used to not trusting reporters' science articles, was the bit on the placebo effect.
This was by no means a new concept, but the depth of it is staggering.
My primary complaint about the book is the tone.
Vērtīga (ne vienmēr viegli lasāma) lasāmviela ikvienam par muļķībām, ko mums baro pašpasludināti uztura speciālisti, krūmu dakteri, intuīcijā balstītu pierādījumu piekritēji, negodīgi farmācijas uzņēmumi un plašsaziņas līdzekļi. Īsumā - viss ir slikti, bet pēc šīs grāmatas vismaz spēsiet noteikt, kāpēc ir slikti.Pilnā atsauksme https://gramatas.wordpress.com/2016/0...
Although written in the context of the UK, its lessons and advice apply to anyone anywhere.Covering everything from CAM (including chiropractic and homeopathy) to vaccinations to self-proclaimed "TV professors" (like Gillian McKeith) to the pros & cons of the pharmaceutical industry, the author shows the reader both sides of the story, shows the evidence, and explains the problems.
This is not a shortcoming of the Kindle or ebook format (I've converted a number of ebooks I already own into Kindle format, complete with images, graphs, etc) -- this is simply laziness on the part of the publisher.
A humorous look at the (non)sense surrounding complementary and alternative medicine. A pithy, amusing read.
I've read about most of the topics covered in this book elsewhere, but Goldacre does a great job of teaching us to spot the failures of Big Pharma, alternative medicine and journalism.
He does this in an entertaining way using ripped-from-the-headlines stories.Last week I was in the mood to read some non-fiction so went to the shelves of one of my goodreads friends and made a list of her 5 star health and science books.
Armed with that,I found several of those books at the library and have been happily reading ever since.
Goodreads is a wonderful way to discover good books published years ago.
No one is spared in this delightfully infuriating tour of the myriad ways we can be duped by bad adv


Viss vienmēr ir sarežģītāk nekā izskatās un vienkāršu atbilžu nav.Vispār ļoti laba grāmata, kas veicina kritisko domāšanu.
There’s so much nonsense going around these days in the name of science and research that a lot of people would be quite shocked with this book.
He digs deeper into why bad science gets disseminated and why the public believes it.
To push the pills and the products on people, they resort to science-y-sounding misinformation.
Some of them may have science degrees, but these people are not scientists and what they say is not backed by real scientific research.
Bad science can cost many, many lives.
An extension of his blog, this is a collection of basically rants about how science and statistics are abused by a variety of people.
It also looks at faulty science behind some nutritionists and some of their dodgy "credentials".
This is part of the problem, I do have a background in Science but I really didn't have enough energy or time to really exhaustively research some of the "facts" given to me by some of these writers.
I expected a comical look at some of the more popular science misconceptions sweeping the world (okay, the UK and US).
In terms of content: many of the points raised by the author are good, and I think that more people need to read and understand how the world around them works (esp.
He is arrogant and rude and at every turn is insulting both the readers and the authority figures who are "deceiving" the public.
That is a sure way to alienate everyone who is looking for answers in a world of misrepresented science.
هذا الكتاب يجب أن يصنف من ضمن أعظم كتب العصر الحديث في نقد العلم الزائف بأدوات العلم الصحيح، فلقد اس
Looking for a book that shines a light on the ways media infuences public opinion in matters of homoepathy, fish oil, antioxidants and the likes? Here it is. Topped with some suggestions how to approach scientific studies, papers and flawed reviews of those. Minus two starts for the condescending tone and the overload on examples.
A readable romp through the misuse and abuse of health related science in the media. The analysis of homeopathy, mrs McKeith and the brain gym seemed like shooting fish in a barrel, but then I remember that people make a lot of money marketing that kind of nonsense.
Diemžēl šis pētījums nevienā nopietnā medicīnas žurnālā tā arī netika publicēts, tomēr mediju reakcija bija iespaidīga, tas nekas, ka vēlāk veiktie pētījumi neko tādu neatklāja, labu stāstu jau ar patiesību nemaitās.Autors jau pēc būtības nav pret to, ka cilvēki rūpējas par savu veselību, cenšas lietot uzturā veselīgāku pārtiku un nedaudz pasporto.
Parādās arī zāles, kas pēc būtības ir sliktākas par vecajām, bet nedaudz pieslīpējot pētījumu datus var to efektu uzprišināt, līdz izcilam.Grāmatu vērtēju ar 10 no 10 ballēm.
“I spend a lot of time talking to people who disagree with me - I would go so far as to say that it's my favourite leisure activity.”I'm an avid fan of  More or Less , the popular statistics radio programme on BBC Radio, and I always enjoy Ben Goldacre's appearances on the show. At one point, I remember Tim Hartford introducing him as something like "the perennially angry Guardian columnist," to which Goldacre responded, "I am not perennially angry!" or similar. He got quite heated about it, muc
Homeopathy, alternative medicine, vitamins, fad nutrition, cosmetics, the MMR scare, the South African government's refusal to espouse antiretrovirals...
My only complaint--and it's pretty minor--is that Goldacre's commentary can be a little patronising; he studiously avoids what he terms the "tedious" technical details, warns the reader of any impending math, and at one point goes into a diatribe that seems to assume the reader is an MMR scare believer.
It may sound disproportionate to suggest that I will continue to point out these obfuscations for as long as they are made, but I will, because to me there is a strange fascination in tracking their true extent."I think Goldacre has isolated the core problem with this popular anti-science: it trains the populous to trust white-lab-coated authority figures, not facts.
