https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/390305.A_Perfect_Evil
Maggie and Sheriff Fuck-Boy are trying to solve the murder together now, and it's a pretty good story.
D.B. keeps doing extremely slimy things to "get the story", like printing that a boy's body was found before Sheriff F.B. informs the family.
We have to drive on the road with these little maniacs when they grow up!But, don't worry, kiddos, cuz Daddy comes to town to help his idiot son solve the murder.
The only good thing about him appearing in the book is that it helps us understand why his kids are hot messes.But, really, everyone is a hot mess.
2.5 starsToo bad, cause I really, really liked the heroine and the story in the beginning. The killer couldn't be more obvious, the police couldn't be more incompetent and the romantic aspect couldn't be more disapponting...
I found this book to be a bit of a mixture and therefore not easy to review.
On the other hand neither did I wave it in the air at the end and say what a good book it was.
But the biggest problem was realising who the murderer was far too early in the book and then watching the so called experts not being able to see what was under their noses.
Nevertheless for a first book this was pretty good and I am looking forward to watching the main character and the author's skill develop as the series continues.
When a young boy goes missing and is found brutally murdered in Platte City Nebraska days later, Sheriff Nick Morelli is advised to get help from FBI profiler Maggie O'Dell, especially after it appears to match previous crimes of a serial killer who was executed months earlier.
O'Dell, however, is still reeling from a harrowing capture of a vicious killer a month ago where she almost lost her life.
However, I found the relationship between Nick and Maggie to be a distraction.
What saved the story were the actual cases (especially the last abduction) and the points of view provided by the killer.
3.5 stars but not really good enough for 4.A Perfect Evil is Alex Kava's first book in the series featuring Maggie O'Dell, a feisty and thorough FBI profiler.
But soon it appears that something isn't right in this town, in fact something is quite wring.Much of the story is formulaic, including a short lived romance between the Sherrif and O'Dell, the stereotypical small town banter and behavior, etc., but there also were glimmers of good writing when it came to O'Dell.
In short, this was a good, enjoyable read and a solid start to a promising series.
A Perfect Evil is Alex Kava's debut novel and the 1st book in her Maggie O'Dell Series.We are introd
I was surprised to find alleged series lead Maggie O'Dell relegated to one of many POVs, with the bulk of the initial plot being driven by blander-than-bland good ol' boy Sheriff Nick who finds himself flailing incompetently when someone starts dumping dead kids in his patch.
Maggie conjures up a profile that everyone ignores (and no wonder really; for a crack-hot profiler, she comes up with a load of bloody rubbish you could get off the TV,) has occasionally traumatic thoughts about her traumatic past, and spends the rest of the time wondering why she's so incapable of keeping her mind off Nick's pert backside, or his piercing eyes, or his boyish good looks, or his...oh you get the idea.
Read: April-May 2018Rating: 3.5/5 starsWhat I liked:- The well-rounded main characters; Nick, Maggie and Christine were all complex and likeable.- The writing style; I found A Perfect Evil easy to read and looked forward to picking it up whenever I had the chance.- The bad guy(s); there were a couple of candidates for the killer and Kava kept me guessing almost to the very end.What I didn't like:- There were a couple of moments when characters made stupid decisions that didn't feel realistic and instead only happened to move the plot along.
(view spoiler)[For example, if Maggie and Nick knew the killer was targeting single mothers with young sons, why didn't they warn Christine earlier?
This books was truly terrible.
I wanted to quit by the 10th chapter, but I usually finish a book once it's started.
She somehow even made the poor little 10 year old victims stupid.
Two children have been kidnapped and killed yet a 10 year old boy would not run screaming from a masked man talking to him?
How insulting to ten year olds everywhere.
This book didn't flow, didn't make me care, all it did was make me burst out in sudden fits of swearing at it's idiocy.
I did like the story but it did have some issues. I liked the character Maggie O'Dell. It did have good character development. I did not like the ending. I am looking forward to the next book in the series. I hear it is much better.There is animal cruelty.
I finished 5 chapters. Then I said profane things for a while because I am disappointed that yet another book with good reviews, turned out to be such a cop out. Where do I even begin? Oh yes, the beginning. There we are, getting introduced to a man who raped and killed a little boy and is about to be put to death. Kids, do you know what time it is?? It is confession to Jesus time!!  Dialogue(he strangled the boy): "I waited until he was dead before I cut him. He didn't feel a thing"Dead people
Kids, do you know what time it is??
Dialogue(he strangled the boy): "I waited until he was dead before I cut him.
Reading about that guy didn't make me wanna say "Aww, alright, you are horrible.
Whatever.Then we introduce Nick Morelli, our charming, good-hearted whoremonger Sheriff who can't seem to get it up right then.
(Hint : No.) Then, of course, Maggie, high-profile criminal profiler who was forced to watch 2 women butchered in front of her by a madman.
But of course, she got right back to work.
As far as this book goes, I slide with Jay-Z over here
I liked the potential of the Maggie O'Dell character.
Now she is in the small town of Platte City, NE helping an inexperienced sheriff by profiling a kidnapper/killer of little boys.
Although his character developed during the book, I found that I still didn't like him.The plot of the kidnapped boys and their tie in to similar crimes committed during Nick's father's regime was a good one.
However, when the victims of a serial killer are innocent children it's a little harder to read about.
Overall it was okay, but it's still nowhere near a very good thriller.The story is pretty predictable --- even though there are several suspects thrown in throughout the story I daresay that anyone with half a brain will know after just a few chapters who the killer is.The characters are okay (nothing special, though).
But then again, we don't learn enough about who she is and how her mind works to really know whether or not she's smart.I will probably read the next book in the series at some point (hopefully there will be more character development in that one) if I come across it somewhere but it's definitely not a priority for me.
And what a beginning!Kava's series features Maggie O'Dell, an 8-year veteran of the FBI when A Perfect Evil starts.
I'm so impressed by how much this book does not read like a first book, not just because Kava's writing is so good (and it is), but also because Maggie is already a fully formed character when we meet her, with a history that has led to psychological, emotional and physical scars that are revealed slowly over the course of the book.
I was always into mystery and suspense novels so I knew I would probably like it, but I had no idea I was going to love it this much.
Maggie is an FBI agent - a profiler - who's on the hunt for a serial killer.
This is the first book in the Maggie O'Dell series, but it doesn't read like one.
The writing is great and the characters are flawed and haunted by their pasts; It feels like we were thrown into an already lived-in life.
What I love most about this whole series is that we get inside the heads of the serial killers.
I finished reading Alex Kava's new book, "Breaking Creed" last week and was immediately taken with character Maggie O'Dell.
Super-excited to discover a new series that I haven't read yet, just enjoyed "A Perfect Evil", the first in Kava's Maggie O'Dell series.
By the final chapters, things were pretty convoluted and bad guy gets away-cue the music for a follow-up book featuring this dastardly baddy.
She seemed to rebound pretty quickly into Sheriff Nick's arms.
If it turns out that Maggie is a serial lap jumper I'll lose interest in Kava's books pretty quickly.
The next 200 pages would reveal how the good guys finally (if ever) catch the bad guy, along with, I assume, more detailed descriptions of child sexual assault, misogynist torture, bludgeonings, drugging, strangling, stabbings, desecrations of corpses.
Not my idea of a relaxing summer night's read.
I wanted to read it because it was a writer setting her action in Nebraska.
On the hilarious side, none of the main characters can experience strong emotion without feeling nauseous or actually vomiting.
Someone gets nauseous or vomits every 6 pages.
NOT the child victims, mind you, who endure kidnapping, drugging, terror and death without a single upset tummy!
Absolutely, truly enjoyed this book.
I don't need graphic sex in my reading - that is what your imagination is for if it is that much of a necessity - just saying.Since I really like the TV show "Criminal Minds", it's no surprise that I really like Maggie O'Dell - FBI profiler :)I highly recommend this series, it's worth every page.
5 Stars and 2 thumbs up - can't wait to start "Split Second" - the 2nd in the series - if only I didn't have to work, sadly I still have one year and 6 months left of running on the hamster wheel!
I've just discoved the show "Criminal Minds" and it's become one of my very favorites. So when I picked up this book featuring Maggie O'Dell and she is a criminal profiler for the FBI I just jumped for joy.
It gets dragged out through the whole book--no, the priest can't be the killer of young boys, who all happened to be his altar boys, no it's a coincidence that the art work throughout his house perfectly resembles the crime scenes, so what if his car matches eyewitness statements and chloroform was found in the front seat, just one of those things that there were other children murdered in exactly the same way in his previous parishes--annnnd (view spoiler)[ they let him get away--because Catholic priests would never rape or murder little kids and they totally fall for the weak-ass planted evidence.
When a Death Row inmate awaiting execution confesses that he didn't kill two of the three boys he was convicted of murdering, Father Francis was not surprised.
He had already heard the confession of the other killer.
Sheriff Nick Morrelli knows he and his deputies are not prepared for the situation and when the boy's body is found and another child disappears, he contacts FBI Criminal Profiler Maggie O'Dell to put together a picture of the killer.This was an interesting debut novel from Alex Kava.
I've heard the stories improve with each book, so I'm looking forward to trying the next book in the series.
I love a book that keeps me up late reading and gets me out of bed early to grab just a few more pages before I start my day.
Kava has done a stellar job building characters and settings and her Maggie O'Dell is my kind of strong if tortured protagonist.I liked the fast pace of this thriller.
If the sign of a great book is that you feel like you are scrambling along a cold muddy river bank running and hiding for your life along side the victims and hunters then this is a great book.
I THOUGHT THIS BOOK WOULD BE GOOD, BOY WAS I WRONG.
THE LAW ENFORCMENT COMMUNITY SHOULD BE OUTRAGED THEY WERE DEPICTED AS BUFFOONS OR KEYSTONE COPS.
I KNEW WHO THE KILLER WAS BY 15% OF THE BOOK BUT THE COPS SURE DIDN'T.
THE BOOK DRAGGED ON AND ON I WANTED TO STOP READING BEFORE 45% BUT I CONTINUED TO STRUGGLE TRYING TO COMPLETE IT.
THIS BOOK IS A SERIES SO WHEN I GOT TO THE END I GOT CLIFF-HUNG.
I WILL NOT BE READING ANYMORE IN THIS SERIES, DON'T WANT TO READ ABOUT ANYMOE STUPID COPS OR ALMOST ROMANCES.
GROAN!
on the one hand, this book had kept me on the edge of my seat while reading it.
and i took me a long time to finish that book.
it was(!) a good book, but at some point i felt like the end wasn't going to come.
the reading process- if i devour a book it's good.
usually, beside times when circumstances have it that i can't, when it takes me a long time to read a book.
5. time- since i read this bool, as time passed by, what mark did the book left on me.
The first book in the Maggie O'Dell series of romantic suspense ...
I've read the first four books in the series, and so far Maggie has met, been attracted to, and deflected at least two very handsome and charming men.
I like these books because the suspense is quite well done, and the mysteries are intriguing.
Maggie's self-destructive behavior in the first three books was less attractive, but, aside from her serious issues with personal relationships, she's in the process of conquering the worst of her demons by book 4.
I'm currently reading book 5, so I'll let you know how it goes!
one irritating thing that I can mention is the feelings of Nick about the O'Dell.
the way author explained the sexual feelings, makes the Nick a sexual predator, especially when you know that he was a policeman.
etkilici bir polisiye hikaye anlatiliyor bu kitapta, ama biraz uzun geldi bana.
sadece Nick'in, bir normal insan ve normal polis olarak, O'Dell'e sehvetli hislerini sevemedim.
ama buyuk bir kargasanin ve cocuklarin olduruldugu cinayetlerin ortasinda hem de gorevli bir polis olarak boyle hisleri her zaman beslemek biraz tuhaf geldi bana.
baska taraftan bakarsak, kitabin sonu bir turlu acik birakilmis ki bu da biraz ilginc olmus.
May warrant reading the next few books to see wether the story and author grows better.
Also, this book was way older than I thought, so they still use Modems and only few have cellphones (no smartphones).
So, maybe I skip a few from the series and read one of the newer ones.
Going through the list, I just realized, I already read one of the newer ones, but did not rate it nor reviewed it (it was before I wrote reviews for Goodreads).
Loved it!
Crime procedures have changed a lot since 2006.
Hell, technology has exploded since then and it was very evident reading this.
Luckily, this is such a well written procedural murder mystery it didn’t diminish the quality of the story.
Maggie is a complex, flawed, ever-evolving FBI profiler.
Nick, the town sheriff is so out of his element it was almost sad.
I enjoyed these two characters together and I have my fingers crossed for a long term relationship.
The evil in this town was appalling.
The little boy was really interesting and thankfully not irritating.
Damn was this book good, I'd say Alex kavas later stories in her Maggie O'dell series are better.. But this was a great first novel and I enjoyed it.
