https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52873.The_Lone_Ranger_and_Tonto_Fistfight_in_Heaven
My students enjoy this book because they don't think they'll be able to connect with native americans on the west coast when they're alt school kids on the east coast, but then they're amazed.
Some themes - poverty, alcoholism, depression, love, passion, sex, confusion, loneliness, isolation - are universal.This is one of the few books that I have read with a class, had a student go to jail during the reading, and come back asking to read the book and tell me about how he picked up another book about native americans while in jail because he missed LR&TFFiH so much.
As I got up to the table, it became clear that I was a bit anxious.
I think of Victor who repeatedly shuts Thomas' kindnesses out, because his sense of dignity doesn't make allowances for support and real friendship.
The cores of each person's identity—in terms of race, family and overarching humanity— are repeatedly exposed here, and at each instance it's clear how deeply Alexie knows that putting out in the open unexpressed pieces of oneself can just as easily feel painful, beautiful or both at once.
I asked for recommendations for short stories that would make me feel as Winesburg, Ohio did (in my woefully lacking in real reaching out words).
But I don't like the feeling I get from the "great new voice" stuff.
I got the trying to know how other people felt through stories feeling from him.
Do they really think that writing stories about people who drink is the problem in the situation?
My mom would totally be one of those annoying "white people" written about in 'Tonto'.I did wonder if the introduction bitterness had to do about himself being one of the heroes who made it.
Alexie's collection of linked short stories is a tale of life on an Indian reservation; it is an exploration of the ways in which Indians deal with the pains and the joys of their lives (storytelling, dance, basketball, food, alcohol); it is a reflection on the relationship between past, present, and future; and it is a meditation on storytelling as a means of bearing witness and as a means of creation and change.The first story of the collection, "Every Little Hurricane," introduces both the functions of storytelling and the interconnectedness of pain and joy.
We need more authors like Sherman Alexie.
Being Native American in the U.S. is like living in our own foreign country within a country.
No one besides an Indian REALLY knows what it is like to live on a reservation.
Alexie vividly paints this picture in a no-nonsense, brutally honest way.
I love how Alexie brings this in...enit, and ya~hey.
Living for today.
Because...today is a good day to die.
Because...today is a good day to die.
OR...today is a good day to read a book.
Today is a good day to read Sherman Alexie.
This is one of his earlier short story collections, and I think Sherman Alexie definitely got better at writing later on in his career.
In some, it felt like Alexie was going a bit too experimental on the structure and I got lost.
That's why short story collections are so hard to review, for me, because they can be pretty uneven or inconsistent like this one.
The second half in the collection had much better stories than the first half.
I find Sherman Alexie a remarkable and special writer because of how he blends sharp humour with the realism of life as a Native American, on a reservation.
"The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fistfight in Heaven" is one of Sherman Alexie's first collections of short stories.
The stories also deal with characters that Alexie would later revisit in his novel "Reservation Blues" (specifically, Thomas Builds-the-Fire, Victor, and Junior).In a 1996 interview with Tomson Highway, Alexie explains a bit about the title of this collection: "Kemosabe in Apache means "idiot," as Tonto in Spanish means "idiot." They were calling each other "idiot" all those years; and they both were, so it worked out.
I think the theme of The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fistfight in Heaven is universal."This universal theme permeates many of Alexie's stories here and in his other writings.
Maybe Alexie's best book--rough and eloquent, sweet and brutal, smoky and colorful and moving, always honest--made we want to write so bad it hurt.
First went to a fiction panel he was on at Writers@Work, then in bright white Park City.
My husband was the only native in the audience, maybe in the building, maybe in Park City.
Over the long long long holidays my husband read ABSOLUTELY TRUE DIARY...
on his side of the bed while I read THEIR EYES WERE WATCHING GOD on mine.
Oh my fucking god.
OMG... So glad that I'm done with this book!
I was rooting for this one - really, I was. It's about Native Americans on the reservation, for crying out loud. You have to root for the underdog! I was trying so hard to care.Well, I stopped caring. It was hard to make heads or tails of most of the stories, and even when I did, they didn't go anywhere. Maybe that was the point, but I didn't like it.
Sherman Alexie can flat-out write, but this book, while strong, is uneven. There are some stunning, beautiful passages along with some standard early-career passages. I liked the book enough to read more Alexie, but I don't see myself pulling it back off the shelf too often.
This collection of short stories from 1993 is a poignant collage of Native American life on the reservation. Anyone who has seen the movie Smoke Signals (the screenplay of which written by Alexie) will recognize characters and events taken from various stories in the collection, though he freely adapted which characters did and said which things for the movie. And characters who play only minor roles in the movie take on more substantial parts in the short-story collection. I loved this book—th
This collection of short stories from 1993 is a poignant collage of Native American life on the reservation.
Anyone who has seen the movie Smoke Signals (the screenplay of which written by Alexie) will recognize characters and events taken from various stories in the collection, though he freely adapted which characters did and said which things for the movie.
He pulls air deep into his lungs and rises above the ground.“Flight, he tells me, my name is Flight.”	There is no greater crime in the history of America than the near genocide perpetuated by people of European descent on Native American peoples.
Emulating my Goodreads and blog friend, Buried in Print, I stretched out my reading of this short story collection for almost a month!
I didn't blow through it like a novel, which had been my short story habit before.
I LOVED this collection, savoring my daily story.
Each story is an exploration of being an Indian (Alexie's term) in America, both on the reservation and off.
I re-watched the movie "Smoke Signals," which is based on a story here, and it was good, as I remembered it.
If you've never read an Alexie story, you really need to pick this up.
What's not to love about Sherman Alexie??? Funny and wicked sharp.
Well, I still like Alexie, but I had higher hopes for this collection of short stories, because I really loved Ten Little Indians.
The duality and complexity that I've found in his other books and short stories was missing for me in this collection.
I didn't really laugh or cry and instead, I just felt blah by most of the stories.
My two favorites were DISTANCES and INDIAN EDUCATION.
It's not like these two stories were the most upbeat or anything, in fact far from it, but they really resonated with me...beautiful prose and great imagery...LOVED THOSE TWO STORIES.
The Native Americans in this book are located on Spokane Reservation, Washington State.
Alcoholism and discrimination run rampant in the lives of these Native Americans, who endlessly try to find their identity amidst a nation that wants to take it away.
From beginning to end, these two characters battle with identity, a profound theme in the story.
Toward the beginning of the book, Victor moves into Seattle to try and adapt to American society.
In the end, he moves back to Spokane Indian Reservation after constantly being judged through stereotypes of a typical Native American.
It really isn't fair of me to rate or review this book, because it is very clearly not written for me.
It's like asking your 100 year old grandmother to review a Metallica concert.
Like asking your six year old to review sashimi.
Like asking a white woman to review the stories of a Native American man.The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fistfight in Heaven is a collection of short stories about the experiences of various Spokane Indians living on the Spokane Indian Reservation.
I am an outsider to it, and I can't penetrate them to arrive at the deeper meaning or comment.I can't even say for sure whether or not I enjoyed the book.
A tepid 3 stars for this collection.
A friend at work is an Alexie fan, and when I came across this book for 50 cents at the library, I picked it up.
At age thirteen, nobody thinks they're going to die, so that wasn't my worry.
But my father was forty-one and that's about the age that I figure a man starts to think about dying.
Or starts to accept it as inevitable." (p.
I went through different emotions while reading this book.
This last time I picked it up I actually thought it was a different book, but read it anyway.
The first story made me want to put the book down again, but my brother convinced me to trudge on.
The second story had a bit of what I assumed my brother loved about the book, that poetic voice that made the ugliness beautiful.I liked the way this collection of short stories revolved around the same characters.
Some stories were written in first person, others in third.
a collection of inter-connected short stories that follows a few central characters through reservation life in the latter half of the 20th century.
american indian myth, religion, and traditional culture all are addressed by alexie as he attempts to find a place for them in contemporary life.
also, the paradox (and alexie seems to argue, at times, crutch) of the reservation is exposed.
no answers are given, or even attempt to be given by alexie.
this collection simply gives the reader an idea of what growing up as an american indian on a reservation may have been like in the past 30 years.
I had seen the movie Smoke Signals, which was written by Alexie based on this book, a few years before and though I had liked it very much and my mother has me do my Victor/Thomas calls often, it took me awhile to actually read the collection of stories the film was based on.
Alexie has a repetitive way of writing, that you don't really notice until you have read several of his books, and it is this is what creates a whole nother world.
Sherman Alexie makes his short stories feel like poems. All very well-written, albeit depressing. Funny at the most inappropriate times, and very entertaining.Three other equally good Alexie novels: Ten Little Indians, Flight, and The Absolutely True Diary of a Part-Time Indian

I flew through this book and really enjoyed the stories about the reservation and the recurring characters.
I am so happy I ended the year and met my goal with this book.
This has very easily become one of my favorite books ever.
There is nothing like reading something that was written with emotion behind it.
The last time I read something similar was Just Kids by Patti Smith, but where JK was written with nothing but love, Alexie writes with anger.
The emotion is raw and his poetic nature shines right through a short story collection.
I loved every single story.
Absolutely magic. A slow-starter and I might give it 4 1/2 stars if I had the option, but really all the stories felt so damn true and lived-in; the beauty of it snuck up on me. It's crazy that stories like these still aren't really part of the general American consciousness. But I'm not really surprised.
I found that the latter felt the way to read this book as the character of Victor is in almost every story and this feels like snap shots of his life linked together.
Sometimes there is repetition, perhaps because these were written over several years, and very rarely you get the sense that was a first time author but most of the time the writing is powerful and heart-wrenching and opens the eyes and heart like all good writing does.One of many beautiful lines;‘A century ago she might have been beautiful, her face reflected in the river instead of a mirror.
The book is an amazing vehicle for Alexie's anger with: clever word-play, humor, mystic imagery, and poignant situations dramatizing the clash of cultures.Selected quotations to give you a sense of Alexie's prose:"They fought each other with the kind of graceful anger that only love can create.
Books and beer are the best and worst defense."""You know what you should do?
You should write a story about something good, a real good story." "Why?" " Because people should know that good things always happen to Indians, too.""""Jimmy," Norma said.
I ran through a wide range of emotions while reading his stories about life on the reservation.
I was shocked when reading one of the stories when it said some of those on the rez had never seen a white person.
So I would imagine not ever seeing a white person in this country is not exaggerated.
Tried to tell a friend about the story and started crying again.
If it made me feel such sadness and alienation, I can only imagine a tiny bit of how an Indian might feel.
Powerful stories, all of them.
Although I'm an editor, I found I was able to look past the style since it wasn't over the top and added a certain feel to his work.Possibly one of the funniest pieces in this collection of short stories is "The Approximate Size of My Favorite Tumor." Although the topic is death, it's light-hearted and amusing and gives a different perspective on living life and laughter.Many of the other stories have less serious topics, but some are more "depressing," possibly because of their realism and the savage reality that life sucks.
While not my favorite author, he's definitely someone I'll continue to add to my bookshelf.
