https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1560.Four_Plays
I don't want the Greeks brought to me, I want to be brought to the Greeks. If you modernise so much, and add all sorts of bits of your own invention, just to make a potentially "performable" play for a modern audience, what is left? I want the strangeness, the oddness, the Otherness....that is the whole point for me of reading this sort of thing...
The most original of Aristophanes' ideas, and the most timeless: as recently as 2012, feminists sarcastically suggested a Lysistrata when the Republicans accidentally launched an ill-fated war on birth control.
It contains what amounts to scholarly comparison of the metres of both poets; at times it sounds like a grad thesis.Aeschylus appears to come out the winner here, but it does seems like all the best lines go to Euripides.
(And Athens will, y'know, lose this war.) Aristophanes didn't know this yet (if I have the dates right here), but Euripides was right.
I don't know if others would find it funny, but for me it was an extra dose of hilarity, and it made sense because if I'm not mistaken in the original Greek their native Lakonian accent is present to differentiate them from the Athenians, but it's not evident in most translations into English.
I don't know half of those feathered species!
Very informative to see the Greeks delving into writing their own version of the utopia/dystopia stories the likes of Animal Farm we have these days, and with not very different concerns at the core.
(At least, I think so; but I can’t be sure, considering how long it’s been since I turned the thing on.) But maybe all this goes to show is that, no matter who you are or where and when you live, fart jokes are funny.On second thought, I will temper the above claims about universality, as Aristophanes’s plays are chock-full of contemporary references that cause the modern reader to scratch his head.
(We have Plato’s dialogues to thank for saving Aristophanes’s jokes at Socrates’s expense.) And the footnotes hardly help in this regard; in fact, I’m not sure any flat joke was ever saved by an informative footnote.But for all the provincial references and coarse humor, a startlingly alive portrait of Athenian life does emerge from these plays.
For example, The Lysistrata, where the Greek women go to heroic lengths to successfully end the Peloponnesian War by withholding all sexual favors from their Athenian or Spartan husbands, who hobble around with painful erections from not having had sex for so long.The Clouds is interesting in its depiction of Socrates as the worst kind of sophist imaginable.
Of course, this is a comedic roast of Socrates, but it does make you wonder--and there is scholarly debate about this--what role The Clouds might have played in the public's misperception of Socrates "making the worse argument appear better" and his subsequent trial and execution.
lysistrata is one of the classic texts of world literature. the others are cool, too, as author is nothing if not worthy of one's attention.
At this stage, I've read most of the famous ones apart from the Clouds, Pace and the Thesmophoriozusae (both of which I think I might read in the Greek, cause i got a good copy of both Peace and the clouds with a commentary and Thesmophoriozousae is on my syllabus) and I've left the poorer, more transitional plays till last (Wealth, Eccleziazousae) as well as the Acharnians.These plays, it seems, seem to rely on either a generally good series of slapstick scenarios or a particularly good agon.
The plays I read were all anti-war pieces, all contained much sexual reference, and all contained blatant insult to Euripides, who apparently had an ongoing feud with Aristophanes.The translators do their best with varied success.
Dionysus picks a winner to go home and increase the morale of the Athenians during a period where they are being hard pressed by the Spartans.The CongresswomenThe women of Athens disguise themselves as men and go to the Assembly and vote themselves into power to end war.
Turns out when you have somebody giving you a good run down of what was said, and why, and who should care, they really are funny, and entertaining, and a good way to spend some time.I didn't read the Lysistrata in this volume, having read it in another anthology awhile back, but I will absolutely vouch for the other three plays ("The Frogs" is translated by Richard Lattimore).
These guys know their Greek well enough to make the jokes pertinent and timely, despite the historical gap.
I'm not gonna get a lot of the jokes, or the word plays, because I'm way out of the time period and language.
The thing which most impressed me about this book was that the plays are dialectically translated: that is, Roche not only follows the originals as literally as possible, he uses modern slang to capture the cultural connotations, double entendres, and dirty jokes of the Ancients in all their accurate glory.
The dichotomy of wealth and poverty is as ancient as humans itself, and I think it’s that very fact which makes this play, like Lysistrata, particularly accessible to modern readers.The Frogs is too topical, I think.
Athenian and Spartan women plot to withhold sex from the men to force an end to the disastrous and interminable Peloponnesian War. Great to see strong females at this early stage.The Birds 1.5 Thumbs UpAgain, great concept.
Would make for a good play what with the bird costumes and elaborate songs.The Frogs 1 Thumb UpThe important bit of this is a contest in Hades between Euripides and Aeschylus to determine which was the greater poet, considering their message, style, philosophy, rhyme and meter.
The Clouds 2 Leather Phalli Way Down.Kind of a silly preconceived notion, but I didn't expect so much scatological humor from classical authors.
Four Plays by Aristophanes / 0-452-00717-8This edition features wonderful translations of "The Clouds", "The Birds", "Lysistrata", and "The Frogs".
The humor and satire is well-managed within the translation, particularly within (my favorite) "Lysistrata".
These four plays (The Clouds, The Birds, Lysistrata, and The Frogs) translated by Arrowsmith, Lattimore and Parker are hilarious!
For example, the following excerpt is from "The Clouds:" "Sokrates.
The boy's a born philosopher.
Why, there were dollhouses, sailboats, little pushcarts from scraps of leather, and the sweetest little frogs carved from fruit peel.
So tutor him in your two logics - traditional Philosophical Logic and that flashy modern sophistic logic they call Immoral because it's so wonderfully wicked.
In any case, if he can't master both logics, I insist that he learn the Immoral Kind of argument."
The translator took some very interesting liberties with the language, including giving the Spartans a markedly southern hick sort of drawl, and modernizing the language to the point of losing a sense that you're reading a Greek play written hundreds of years ago.
It's a beautifully funny play to begin with, and the modern touches added an interesting element.
It's particularly relevant to me as I've been reading about the accomplishments of a woman named Leymah Gbowee and the movement she started in Liberia which brought about an end to revolution and the installation of the first female leader that country had seen, following almost the exact same premise as Lysistrata.
Read "The Frogs" this week.
At first, I wasn't laughing.
But then I started to embrace the play as something with a touch of the silly slapstick humor of, say, Abbot and Costello Meet Frankenstein, and something of the biting political humor of Lenny Bruce.
And I found myself laughing out loud.
Oh, what a marvelous delight this must have been for the Athenians!
An opportunity to laugh in 25 years into the Peloponnesian War. To laugh at the war, the politicians, and themselves.
To hug the lines of literature quoted in the play close to their bosoms.
Surprisingly fun read.
So many quotes from plays which are lost.
Did anyone else feel like these plays were really all over the place?
I mean Cloudcuckoland?
I guess you can see where people get their appreciation for random humor after reading this.
I also think perhaps the translator added a few things as (and pardon me for assuming to know) but it seems like some of the sayings were not very greek in style.
Overall not what I was expecting from a series of plays that are so well referenced in literature.
And this after reading the great Prometheus Bound.
Not my style I am afraid.

This was my first time reading Aristophanes, and I have always heard he's a comedic genius, but I was blown away by how modern some of these jokes are.
The obscure poking at his contemporary politicians and others were hard to understand, but the amount of wordplay and other jokes hold up well.
Part of that may be the translation as they do preface the amount of jokes are updated to modern times, but even then it's remarkable how well they were able to turn his poetic stanzas to a modern ear and keep it viable to the original.
Three different translators have brought these ancient Greek plays into language modern enough for us to easily grasp their meaning.
Lysistrata is probably the most popular: who can resist a storyline like this?
The women of Athens are fed up.
All the men seem to do is go to war, no fun for anyone.
Deciding on direct action, they call in the women of Sparta and the Peleponnese, and suggest that steadfast withdrawing of sexual favours unless the men negotiate a peace is definitely the way to go.
Very funny.
As is Aristophanes’ satire about Socrates, in The Clouds.
*THE BIRDS only*It's normally possible for me to read a translated work and at least try to forget the fact that I'm reading a piece of translation.
In the case of this translation, however, almost every word drove the point home.
That's not necessarily a bad thing, however; Arrowsmith's work calls attention to itself in a way that forced me to treat the text as more a scaffold for ideas than a piece of crafted language (he explains this in great detail - and with more eloquence than I can muster - in the introduction).
At some point, I should circle back and read the rest of these plays.
I'm giving this 4 stars, not because I loved the book, but because I thought the edition was great, the notes very informative, the translation "true" in that you got the modern version of what the Greek might have been.
I really liked The Clouds and I thought the exploration of sophistry was very astute.
It felt true even now.
The humor is a little out of reach for me (potty and sexual humor), but any different culture will have a different kind of humor, and we're talking about a different time and place here!
I'm glad I got a sense of Greek comedy and a sense of the time period.
Unstoppably funny. The Clouds is an old favorite and the Frogs a more recent discovery but Aristophanes is definitely my sense of humor; certainly, I find him much funnier than Menander, who is more a chore than anything else for me. How could I forget Lysistrata?!This edition, in particular, is dear to me. I think that translation is especially good and, since first being exposed to it in college, I've met one of the still-living translators, Douglass Parker. Parker is as funny as you would expect.
This translation of Aristophanes is really readable and raunchy. I read The Clouds and The Birds. Will have to check out again to read Lysistrata, which I find cited pretty often. The butt stuff alone makes it worth a read. Was surprised to find the satire of the Sophists leveled in The Clouds relevant to pseudo-scientific bloviation of our own time. The introductions, commentary, and notes included in this edition were helpful. However, this translation is clear enough that you don't have to spend too much time in the notes to understand what's happening.
Aristophanes never fails to please. If you think ancient plays will only be funny for people living in ancient times, then you are sorely mistaken. the same rules for humour apply, which means that comedy really is timeless. From the bawdy sexual protests of Lysistrata to the political dealings within the clouds, Aristophanes is a playwright that defined the comedic genre and it's easy to see why.
Out of the four plays contained here, I liked Lysistrata the best. I might read other translations of that particular play too. The Clouds was meh, and The Birds was actually not as bad as I thought from reading the description of it. But The Frogs was lost to me, probably because it's mainly about the technical styles of Euripides and Aeschylus—both of whom I read, like YEARS ago.
I only read The Clouds, The Frogs, and Lysistrata from this book. I am not impressed by the profanity of Aristophanes. The poet had much to say about the life and times of Greece including politics, the philosophy and wars of his day and he portrayed his opinions through his plays. Not much difference between that and the theatre of our day. However, I must say that I prefer to read Sophocles and Aeschylus much more than Aristophanes due to their higher morals and standards.
I read Lysistrata after I read the Frogs. Lysistrata was better than The Frogs and really worth reading. The women of Athens withhold sex from their husbands until they agree to end the war with Sparta. It's fun and an entertaining comedy. For kicks, listen to Frank Deford's NPR commentary about a modern day update of Lysistrata set in a basketball context.
I saw a group (a home theatre group?) perform the Frogs in a back garden one summer. It was really funny.I've seem Lysistrata as well, that was damn good too.I like Aristophanes. So many levels in his plays, right from toilet and sexual humour, all the way up to satire and social comment.... good stuff.
Frigging Hilarious. And taught me something about translation: if you translate a comedy and the result isn't comedic, you have failed. (Unless it wasn't funny in the first place, or you're writing for an audience of scholars.) Good translation evokes feelings similar to the ones that readers of the original text experience. If that means you have to take liberties with meaning, so be it.
Read The Frogs last semester for theater history, The Birds for dramatic structure comedy this semester. I prefer The Frogs (knowing the Sondheim musical helped), but The Birds had its moments. Unfortunately, the notes on Aristophanes' obscure references were presented as endnotes, instead of footnotes, which got annoying. Still, amusing.
