https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/374988.What_Ever_Happened_to_Baby_Jane_
After a suspicious auto accident cripples the beautiful and successful movie star Blanche Hudson, her troubled and jealous sister Jane, (once a child actress herself known as Baby Jane) becomes her sole caregiver.......and the nightmare begins.With loads of suspense and a high creep factor, Baby Jane Hudson slowly goes off her rocker serving grotesque meals, committing a brutal murder (view spoiler)[of Edna the housekeeper (hide spoiler)] and generally continues to starve and terrorize Blanche.
It has been a while since I've seen the old movie so I must admit to being surprised by the twist at the end with the truth about (view spoiler)[ the auto accident that Blanche actually caused herself, but blamed on a disturbed Jane.
“Sometimes I wonder about the two of them over there in that big old house all alone. They don’t ever seem to do anything—or have anyone in for company. It must be awful….”I have been watching Feud: Bette and Joan for a month now, and I'm enthralled! My grandmother introduced me to so many black and white thrillers like The Bad Seed, Dead Ringer, Straightjacket, and my favorite, What Ever Happened to Baby Jane. As a result, I've been a big fan of the duo, so it's been wonderful to see them at t
“Sometimes I wonder about the two of them over there in that big old house all alone.
As a result, I've been a big fan of the duo, so it's been wonderful to see them at the end of their movie careers amid a cutthroat film industry.
Obviously Jane's sanity is unraveling, and it's wonderful and scary to watch.
Even though I knew how it would end, it was still fascinating to read about.
If you're in need of supplemental reading material inspired by Feud, then you can't go wrong with the book that started it all!
This timeless novel of sibling rivalry has long been a favorite of mine, so has the 1962 film adaptation. The ending especially is always a shocker, and in the age of starlets like Honey Boo Boo, Justin Bieber and Elle Fanning, this book is still as relevant to our culture as ever. It's excellent, especially if you're a fan of psychological thrillers and horror.
Whatever Happened To Baby Jane is a psychological, horror story about two aging show-biz sisters, Jane and Blanche Hudson, who are locked in the ultimate sibling rivalry war.
When they were very young Jane was a cute, famous vaudeville child star known as "Baby Jane".
Blanche becomes wealthier, more famous and more beautiful than Baby Jane ever was.
What's worse is Jane is really starting to lose her grip on reality.As Jane spirals into mental illness, she becomes more and more controlling, taunting and abusive towards Blanche, who is helpless in her wheelchair.
Jane has a fantasy of using Blanche's money to kickstart a comeback and revive her old Baby Jane vaudeville act.
Baby Jane Hudson was a precocious vaudeville child star until she was overshadowed by her younger sister, Blanche.
Blanche became a beautiful Hollywood actress, but in her prime an accident robbed her of her glittering career, her prospects of romance, and the use of her legs.Whatever happened to baby Jane is a story of toxic families, jealousy, betrayal, mental illness and family loyalty.
I know that I really enjoyed a book when I turn the last page and realise it’s 3:00am and don’t regret only getting 3 and half hours sleep.A fantastic story, I highly recommend it.
O. M. G this story! I have not seen the movie but had a vague idea of what it’s about. Well honey! I was surprised at the crazy and betrayal and crazy that is this book. It was great and the lady reading it did sooo great with the voices. I can’t wait to watch this now!! Ps- someone please pass word to Jinx Monsoon to narrate this story! She’d be so perfect for this!
Chilling and disturbing, this is a great fast read. Now I have to see the film.
Very similar to the movie. You do have more psychological insight into the characters, though.
If you've seen the fabulous 1962 film starring Bette Davis and Joan Crawford, you'll know every plot-point. Nevertheless, 'What Ever Happened to Baby Jane?' is a nail-biter of a suspense novel. Author Henry Farrell must have been a great observer; each description of posture, gait or facial expression is the quintessential picture that tells a thousand words. (This edition included one novelette and two short stories. Oh, how I wish Farrell had expanded the novelette, 'What Ever Happened to Cousin Charlotte?' into a novel! Apparently it inspired a film, which I'll have to track down.)
Great movie! (Starring Bette Davis and Joan Crawford) and a Great book!  I haven't seen the movie in years, but from what I recall, the movie closely follows the book. It's just so creepy and suspenseful.
There are a lot of really nasty women in this story; it's like Farrell had a bone to pick and/or didn't know a decent woman in his entire life.
We get a little backstory first off, but then the majority of the story involves Charlotte as an older woman, very similar in behavior to Baby Jane in her older years.The mystery is not dissimilar, but only in the sense that something happened and we (the readers) want to know what it is.
This was the reason why I picked up Henry Farrell's novel.
In the case of Baby Jane I saw the movie before I read the book and thus began with wonder of how much had been adapted.
It was an early Misery minus James Caan/Paul Sheldon getting his foot cut off, but enough about the movie.I read the introduction before beginning What Ever Happened To Baby Jane?
Her sister the invalid, once great movie star Blanche, while playing the sick card both for real and sometimes for the irk of her sister I felt she knew something beyond the circumstances from her accident.What Ever Happened To Baby Jane is masterly crafted and should be a read for anyone who enjoys old Hollywood or just a good creepy read.
Get a copy of this book if you can and I also recommend watching the film. This is a perfect book and film pairing! Perfectly done. No beating around the bush just all story, all action, all suspense all the time.Keep an eye out for a review @ www.coffeeandtrainspotting.wordpress.com
Life itself could not be possessed, really, not even a minute of it. She saw it with sudden clarity; life kept slipping away from you, it kept shifting and changing, like the dancing lights in the false stones, shifting and changing and shooting off into the shadows without you. It was all just a reflection. People were only reflections. - - - [W]hile you wandered there in the darkness—then you couldn't even find the shape or the heart of yourself—and that was terrible, and you were afraid... W
There's no question that Blanche is unhinged and delusional in thinking that everything she did was only because she was forced into it by other people's actions, but the reason for that massively questionable behavior is left for the reader to decide.The uncertainty that lingers on after the ending, the fact that everything isn't actually resolved and tied into a neat little bow so that we can move on knowing that everything is alright again, won't appeal to everyone.
This book was quite chilling - the movie version made with Bette Davis was very faithful to the plot. I enjoyed the fact that the story was written from the perspectives of multiple characters in the book. Definitely a quick read, but a memorable one.
What Ever Happened to Baby Jane? is a gothic suspense novel of sibling rivalry. It is twisted but so good! It is dark and disturbing. It will keep you on the edge of your seat. The ending was chilling. I absolutely loved it.
Die Mädels sagen es am besten:Die Story braucht nicht lange, bis sie lawinenartig eskaliert und den galoppierenden Wahnsinn reinlässt, ich wurde angenehm aufs garstigste überrascht und bin mir nun sicher, dass Norman Bates uns seine Schwestern einfach verheimlicht hat...
Henry Farrell is a classic horror writer who came to promience in the 60's.
The film is pretty faithful to the book except for some minor changes and some excellent character building that you do not find in the film.
If you buy the e-book version, it comes with loads of extras such as 'Whatever Happened to Charolotte?' which is the basis of Hush Hush Sweet Charlotte, three more short stories and an excellent introduction by the author's agent.
This is a true gem and a great discovery to classic literature.
I loved this Psychological Thriller!!!Whatever happened to Baby Jane is about two sisters with a complicated relationship.
The two sisters we're both stars at certain points in their lives and it was this part of their lives that tore them apart but also brought them together in an unforeseen way.
Now that they're older they're locked away in a house with Jane taking care of her sister Blanche who is handicapped due to an accident years ago that everyone blamed Jane is on the verge of a psychotic breakdown and it's no wonder that she loses it on her handicapped sister Blanche who she's jealousy clouds her.
What will baby Jane do?
I read this book because I loved the movie, and I enjoyed the book even more than the movie! That said, the movie is very true to the book. Nevertheless, you get a better insight into the characters' minds by reading the book rather than watching the movie. This is the tragic story of two wasted lives - those of Blanche and Jane Hudson (view spoiler)[ and the maid, who was killed by Jane (hide spoiler)] - and the author gradually reveals details about their pasts so as to help you to understand
This is the tragic story of two wasted lives - those of Blanche and Jane Hudson (view spoiler)[ and the maid, who was killed by Jane  (hide spoiler)] - and the author gradually reveals details about their pasts so as to help you to understand why these two women are as they are.
Blanche, paralysed from the waste down and living as a shut-in, for a long time rejected those close to her who wished to see her after the "accident".
She spends her days reminiscing about her glamorous movie star past.
Though What Ever Happened to Baby Jane would probably not be marked as horror by today's standards it's every bit as good as any modern thriller. Probably the original story of sibling rivalry. Plenty of remarks on society as well. Definitely worth the time to read.
Loved it!
4 STARS Baby Jane Hudson was the breadwinner of her family in the age of Vaudeville and never lets her family forget it.
The tables turn when Blanche Hudson becomes the movie star and Jane is only gets parts because Blanche demands it in her contract.
Jane seems to relish in the role of caretaker as this leaves her to torment Blanche and get back on top.I saw this movie on PBS one friday night many moons ago and the story has stayed with me since.
The narrator was fabulous and I would recommend this to anyone who has loved the movie.
I really enjoyed this scary story of sibling rivalry.Blanche and Jane Hudson have a very odd relationship.
As a child, Blanche was always in the shadow of her oh-so-talented sister.
As an adult, Jane could never bust out the acting talent Blanche could and her child-star days faded away in  her  sister's shadow.
Very eerie with a shocker of a secret , I really enjoyed this psychological thriller where things are not what they appear...Ps. The movie , in my opinion , was way more shocking and twisted than the book.
The story was fleshed out better and the weirdness of Jane was way more believable.
Title: What Ever Happened to Baby Jane?Author: Henry FarrellGenre(s): HorrorRating: 5 starsLoves, Likes, Adores:This is such a classic! I love the movie and the book was just as good and entertaining. Dislikes, Hates, Ignores:I felt some parts translated better into the movie but otherwise nothing to complain about.
I enjoyed this collection, especially "What Ever Happened to Charlotte" and "The Debut of Larry Richards". I'm forever grateful to Farrell for having spawned two of my favorite films, and the man knows when to deliver a good twist.
Creepy, suspenseful and yet a little bit too long. Although, it was dragging a little bit, I kinda enjoyed it but I don't think that this book is for everyone.
The characters in the book seem so much more realistic and 3 dimensional than the ones in the movie -- not that I'm knocking the movie!
Whatever Happened to Baby Jane?
her sister Blanche became a movie start when grown and Jane's career faded into nothing.
the sisters live in a house together.
Jane has become Blanche's caregiver for the last 20 years.
Blanche lives in terror of what Jane is going to do to her next.
What will ever become of Baby Jane and Blanche?
I was quite happy with the book and liked the movie stayed close to the book for the most part.Well done story.
my copy also had three short stories after Baby Jane.
Books with a question mark in the title aren't fair.
This is because you can only find out the answer if you read the book.
If only "The Grapes of Wrath" had a question mark in it, I would have read that classic long ago.
I mean, what would make 0ne answer a question that way?!?!
Anyway, What Ever Happened to Baby Jane lived up to its title.
You do, indeed, find out what happened to Baby Jane, and dare I say, it's kind of...spooky.
So do yourself a favor and find out WHAT ever happened to that baby they called Jane.
