https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/776407.The_House_at_Pooh_Corner
“Piglet sidled up to Pooh from behind."Pooh!" he whispered."Yes, Piglet?""Nothing," said Piglet, taking Pooh's paw. "I just wanted to be sure of you.”I will forever be in love with these books. The sweetness and melancholy get me every single time. I don't know where Milne takes all the beautiful words, the laughing-out-loud humor and the ideas from. I am in awe.Find more of my books on Instagram
Would you believe it, stockings and a honey-pot.
Yes, I do actually.
OK, OK, let's hear your honey story.
Sorry, just too noisy.
I know, once you've started you just can't stop.
You're the first person I've ever met who understands.
Look, I know this sounds crazy, like we've only just met and I'll probably regret it in the morning, but come home with me.
It feels like fate.
We're outta here."___________________________________________If you want to examine the magazine cover which inspired the review, note that, as the review suggests, it's in dubious taste, and features a mostly naked woman.
As an adult, I read them to my kids and took them to see where Christopher Robin and his childhood friends had lived—the Milnes’ country home at Cotchford Farm, Hartfield in East Sussex, England.
That audiobook led to The House at Pooh Corner and When We Were Very Young, also read by Peter Dennis.
Rereading, as an adult, they evoke childhood memories, and one marvels at the word play, the humor and life wisdom woven into the lines.The House at Pooh Corner is about dear friends, friends who are different and each loved for who they are.
In these characters, we see ourselves, we all know and Eeyore, the same as we all know a Rabbit – we are all in there somewhere, in some shape or form.A.A. Milnes Winnie-the-Pooh stories are just so simply and so well written, both collections are timeless classics – from the opening lines to the closing ones from the profoundly moving last chapter:“…So, they went off together.
For nearly a century now we have provided children and their parents with one of the most essential tools towards abstract thinking, emotional hygiene, social empathy and creativity.
Our employees all have distinct issues; for example Pooh is not particularly quick-witted, Piglet struggles with a lack of pluck, Tigger needs more aplomb, Wol could do with a little humility and of course poor Eeyore, well..., anyway all the characters are struggling in such a way that a child can swiftly feel sympathy for them.
Thus we feel that this issue is less important than might be imagined.BSI inspector: Right, well thank you very much.
Lovely.I was shocked by how melancholy the book allowed itself to become at the end. And how much that melancholy affected me, but as far as I'm concerned "A little boy and his bear will always be playing." Might be the most hopeful line to end a book in the English language.
A. decided to write down the wonderful stories and share them with the world.It makes me want to write a children's book.
I just love the tone and the voice used here and how things happen, and characters do have minor issues with themselves, but there is overwhelming kindness and compassion in the story and for the community.
I read this as an audio book and it was a whole lot of fun to let this story wash over me.
It's a quick and easy story to read.
What a feat this work is and how lucky the world is to have these stories.
Even more delightful than the first, I think.
And also quite bittersweet, as Christopher Robin essentially has to grow up, and his Hundred Acre Wood friends struggle to understand what is happening.
Reading this aloud, I have to fight not to break down in the final chapter.2018: My kids had just seen both the original animated movie, the newer Winnie-the-Pooh animated movie, and the new live action Christopher Robin.
They loved seeing how the stories in this book had been used, directly, for the animated films, and we thought it was cool what a natural follow up Christopher Robin really was.
I'm so happy that I picked up this series. These books have been so much fun to read and I'll for sure be rereading very soon!
It was with much apprehension that I started this- after all, my initial impression (Winnie the Pooh as it is in Disney) is vastly different from this book.
In fact, I don't think I would have even picked up the book, had a friend not recommended it to me.
It made me cry and revisit my stuffed animal collection that I have abandoned for so long.After rereading both books, I finally figured out why I love them so much.
My favourite part is definitely the one where Rabbit, Pooh, and Piglet trying to make Tigger more humble but ending up with rabbit becoming more humble...
I say terrible, but for a little kid the world is a place of wonder, no matter HOW bad he feels.I remember reading the story of the Flying Dutchman in bed with an oncoming fever on Christmas Eve. The story stayed with me all through my life as the story of an unlucky guy who has to sail the Seven Seas of life to find the girl of his dreams - because that, as it turned out, became the story of my OWN life!
And it was not till much later that I learned the REAL Winnie-the-Pooh was Canadian, like me.
There are some days when I've had enough of the world and need to escape to the Hundred Acre Wood with my friends Winnie the Pooh and Piglet. These are the original stories and illustrations. If you're a fan of Winnie the Pooh but haven't read this yet, I highly recommend it! Children and adults alike will love these grand adventures. My Rating: 5+ stars
The second volume of short stories fearing Winnie-the-Pooh, this collection is most noticeable for the introduction of Tigger.I really enjoy this collection and this books illustrations are just wonderful.
For the final of Celebrity Death Match.Some basic facts about Winnie the Pooh and the Divine Comedy.(1) Have you ever tried looking up Winnie on project Gutenberg?
Offer the copyright to The Divine Comedy to Disney for ten bucks.(2) Have you ever tried shopping for Dante sheets?
Celebrity death match can scarcely go against figures like these.(4) When I was in Grade three, about seven years old, we were set as English comprehension:"Compare and contrast the following passages"The start of the Divine Comedy:His glory, by whose might all things are mov'd,Pierces the universe, and in one partSheds more resplendence, elsewhere less.
Whilst I was sweetly put to sleep with Pooh each night, my poor brother was served up Dante.
i have always loved Winnie-the-Pooh.after all who couldn't?a bunch of animals each with a different and captivating personality. their outlook of the world, their adventures and beliefsare all bound to make me laugh, cry and wonder and the same time.when i picked this up from the library, i only thought of getting reacquainted with my childhood heroes. i never thought it was possible to fall more in love with book.i am in tears . this book is everything !!!!
Such a sweet book! I’m sure I watched the animated tv show as a kid, but don’t really remember much of it now. Yet somehow so much of this seems familiar. I didn’t realize this was book two since I found it in a used bookstore or something, and I definitely want to read the first one.
در این کتاب خبری از حرف های راوی با کریستوفر رابینی که خرسش رو توی راه پله دنبال خودش می کشید نیست و
Read as part of The Infinite Variety Reading Challenge, based on the BBC's Big Read Poll of 2003.Very endearing and much more thorough than the previous wonder, but still not as magical as I'd always been led to believe.Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Pinterest | Shop | Etsy
nearly cried at that ending I won't lie !
I did not read any of the Winnie the Pooh stories until I came across this recording & the companion recording of "Winnie the Pooh" until I bought them for my daughter when I was in my 40s.
It's the only story which has brought me close to crashing the car.
It's difficult to see dry-stone walls, cry laughing uncontrollably, and keep control of a car on tight bends all at the same time.
The reading is delightful.
Bennett's voice and Eyeore's lines were made for each other.
I've heard that these books are meant for children, but I can't quite believe it.
Coperta cartonată, paginile groase şi vag lucioase, alături de povestea minunată a ursuleţului copilăriei şi a desenelor maestrului Shepard te duc cu gândul la copilărie şi la zilele lipsite de griji.Cărticica este alcătuită dintr-o serie de poveşti hazlii care îl surprind pe ursuleţul Winnie Puh alături de prietenii săi cei mai buni (Purceluş, Aiurel, Christopher Robin, Bufniţa, Iepure, Ru, Kanga, Tigrişor -sper că nu am uitat pe nimeni!) făcând o grămadă de năzbâtii.Ce este amuzant şi plăcut atunci când citeşti această carte sunt cuvintele tuturor personajelor, cuvinte care uneori sunt deduse greşit de acestea (având în vedere că nu prea ştiu să citească), lucru ce duce la diverse acţiuni hazlii de Căutare sau alte peripeţii care mereu se termină cu bine.Săpând mai adânc în semnificaţia acestei cărţi, pot spune că fiecare personaj are ceva aparte şi chiar aş putea să fac o mică clasificare a lor în funcţie de vorbele şi acţiunile acestora.

I never had read the orginal Pooh books, so decided I should.To quote from the back cover:"Private research has convinced us that few people in responsible positions in society today have got to their eminence without the influence of Pooh"- The Christian Science MonitorAnd The House at Pooh Corner is home to one of my most favorite Pooh quotes (which I collected from somewhere other than the book, I guess):"Piglet sidled up to Pooh from behind.'Pooh!' he whispered.'Yes, piglet?''Nothing,' said Piglet, taking Pooh's paw. 'I just wanted to be sure of you.'"Love it. :)
Cuteness and nostalgia overload while reading this! Couldn't stop smiling! <3
im an adult but here i am ...crying over winnie the pooh,,.. again
I've always loved Pooh Bear and always will. When everyone got into Snoopy, I was still crazy for Winnie the Pooh.
<3Quotes:-------Owl kept his head and told us that the Opposite of an Introduction… was a Contradiction.They haven't got Brains, any of them, only grey fluff that's blown into their heads by mistake, and they don't Think…"What do Jagulars do?" asked Piglet, hoping that they wouldn’t.… And he was the sort of Tigger who was always in front when you were showing him the way anywhere, and was generally out of sight when at last you came to the place and said proudly "Here we are!”… You can't help respecting anybody who can spell TUESDAY, even if he doesn't spell it right; but spelling isn't everything.
You don't need me to recommend this book to you. I just can't in good faith begin making my profile on a site about books and about me as a reader without acknowledging this work of genius. The world would be a better place if everyone could read this book and let themselves love it.
Gemas banget banget banget sama si beruang berotak sangat kecil sekali :')
