https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11360073-the-year-of-the-jackpot
The Year of the Jackpot is a story centered around a crusty statistician who looks for macro-cycles in life broadly and avoids being the paradigmatic nut by turning out to be right. It's also a sweet love story. As Heinlein stories go, it is probably bottom third, but that's still pretty darned nice.
A fun, quick read that becomes downright eerie at times.
Heinlein didn't need to see the future to write this novella: he simply understands statistics, the recurrence of trends, and the herd mentality.
The decline of intellectualism and extreme political division are pretty easy predictions looking from the 1950s toward the future, agreed, but his description of the rise of the "American Rally" political movement (the protagonist refers to them as the "No-Nothings") had me murmuring "You betcha!" under my breath.
The penultimate scene of the book was a bit unsatisfying to me, but overall, this was definitely a worthwhile read.
This short story is an excellent intro to Heinlein.
Although science has overtaken his technological premise, it can never overtake his morality.
A mathematician with the unlikely name of Potiphar Breem has been earning a living as a general advisor to business, politicians and individuals about cycles, business, fashion and even astronomical.
When an otherwise sensible girl strips herself naked right before his eyes, he becomes convinced that the "Lady Godiva" cycle heralds something really big.
It's mystery, adventure and love story in 20 minutes.
Just right for your bus or subway commute.
Not as good as The Door Into Summer (my first Heinlein novella), but better than most of the stuff that's out there. I've become a Robert Heinlein fan & am looking forward to reading more. I'm not even a science fiction fan, but Heinlein makes it seems real, not so far out there that it's unbelievable.
I much prefer Heinlein's novels, but this novella is a good read. I had read it before but forgotten it over the years. Potiphar is a statistician who tracks cycles of 'funny business', noting they all peak together, which he call the 'Year of the Jackpot."Statistics aside, his interest in Meade, a woman who stripped down to her skin at a bus stop, makes their relationship a bittersweet one. Potiphar knows where things are trending, and it isn't pretty.My blog:The Interstitial Readerhttps://theinterstitialreader.wordpre...
What if the curve of statistics reaches the point where all the disasters clashed with each other was lurking but a step around the corner? In this short story Robert A. Heinlein answers this very question, it was a fun read in a sort of parallel universe kind of way. All the carlessness tone of his writing shines through in here in a way that floats thus well that the story is still worth reading despite its age.
talk about creepy...
Not Heinlein's best work. Nor second or third best. It's short, though, so it won't keep you long.
Read and rereadEarly Heinlein at his most pessimistic. Once again I see us in the silly season and wonder when he will be right. And I miss Meade.
Good but all statistical results depend good accurate data. Without it you are just throwing darts in darkness and hoping for a bullseye.
Not the best thing Heinlein has written.
not one of his best
About the Story: This novelette appeared in the March 1952 issue of GALAXY and is the only work which Heinlein wrote specifically for Horace Gold, the editor of GALAXY magazine.
His first story, “Life-Line” was published in the August 1939 issue of ASTOUNDING, within three years with novels and novelettes such as SIXTH COLUMN, BLOWUPS HAPPEN, UNIVERSE, THE ROADS MUST ROLL, METHUSALEH’S CHILDREN he had become the most dominant writer in the history of science fiction; this was a position he did not relinquish for the rest of his life nor has it yet been relinquished.
It's actually the first work I've ever read from Heinlein.
Aside from the strange opening at the bust stop, the first segment isn't all that exciting, but it does present interesting ideas.
The second segment is far more interesting and develops a much stronger connection between Breen and Meade rather than just simple curiosities.
I really enjoyed this segment for the character development, the plot, and a rather unexpected event with Meade that still seemed believable enough.
Overall, I enjoyed this story, particular the second segment, and will gladly read more of Heinlein's work.
A Must read for Heinlein fans...and potential fans as well. For years, I have felt that Robert Heinlein's "The Moon Is A Harsh Mistress" should be required reading in high school. I am adding this one as well. It's a powerfully written short story, but it is the underlying structure that shows human nature at its best and worst. If more of us paid attention to how the PTB (powers that be) manipulate us, perhaps fewer would buy into it lock stock and barrel. It misses a 5 star rating only by the hopeless ending (unusual in a Heinlein book.)
Very interesting novella by Robert Heinlein. The story is amusing and mostly tongue-in-cheek at the beginning and transitions into a much more serious tone towards the end. Heinlein actually foresees the use of big data to predict trends. The protagonist is a statistician who tracks the occurrences of similar events in society. He realizes that there is a cyclical pattern to all of these events and that a major negative inflection point will occur in the present year (1952).
Jason's review says it as well as I could. An easy to read intro to one of the greatest of all science fiction authors. Written in a post-atom bomb world where self-destruction was on the top of almost everybody's worry list, Heinlein finds his groove in making this topic interesting and humorous.A quick read.
A rather short novella but quite enjoyable look at the early Heinlien. Yes, the story is dated as to the world it postulates - science and history have rendered it moot. But I enjoyed the relationship between the two main characters and the way he developed the story. I've certainly enjoyed his work in the past and am looking forward to revisiting it in the future.
A fun story about a statician who manages to predict with accuracy some interesting world events. Includes standard plucky Heinlein heroine. I finished one section per 45-minute commute, so it broke up pretty naturally for me. Also shows Heinlein in his element: silly but serious stuff discussed. Recommended.
Excellent Short StoryThis story provides a glimpse into the mind of a cold war intellectual. A great comparison to today. Some things change, many never do. The big question is the same. Will human behavior be the end of our species, our world...
Old wineA cupful of well-trumped grapes from the old master. Heinlein dishes up a poignant tale of two unlikely partners who avoid nuclear catastrophe and other wild happenings only to face a huge solar flare.
Decent novella. Like many of Heinlein's works, it concerns one man who sees more clearly than others and the woman who, through unlikely circumstances, cleaves to him. It reminds me of Farnham's Freehold without the time travel.
It's easy to forget just how marvelously readable Robert Heinlein's prose is. This novella just flows beautifully in its storytelling, doling out exposition so subtly (at least until the last page!) Story as little as optimistic than most of Heinlein's writings. An excellent read.
A fun littl novelette. Short, but interesting in it's premise. Not what I expected from Heinlein storywise, but it did have his style (bantering yet attracted main characters). Kind of funny, kind of serious, and not a bad read.
Solid good fun, Gary Stu story that moves so quickly as has such a small cast that the sexism doesn't get a full chance to express itself. Apparently it takes place in a world in which there are apparently Hispanics or African-Americans in Southern California.
It is decent and bearable, but you get what you expect with heinlein, namely female characters exist at best as foils for males and largely there as warm bodies and wish fulfillment. Fun little story though.
This is an excellent little book. I thoroughly enjoyed the characters and plot. Seems like the story has application to our own time though the focus year is 1952.I love Heinlein and this is a gem. I highly recommend it.
A fun story set apart from Heinlein's future history arcAn entertaining story from the outset and following an interesting premise where the tracking of the confluence of probability curves can be used to predict catastrophe. It also reflects gender roles of 1952.
I may have missed something
Sexist. Homophobic. But it is 50's Sci-fi, so I guess that is expected. It was tolerable otherwise.
