https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/273669.The_Escoffier_Cookbook
So it is that every serious cook should read Escoffier.
It contains many recipes which the modern cook will not attempt; he assumes that one has unlimited supplies of truffles and fois gras at hand.
His recipe for turtle soup includes detailed instructions on how to kill the turtle and get it out of its shell.
I thought it would take a year to read them all; the task was accomplished in only ten months.
A Chef's Bible.
After 6000 hours in a Chef Apprenticeship, I can still recite most of the recipes in this book. Over the years I have come to appreciate this training more so than when I was a young chef (who thought he was much better than he was!) and I now realize the importance of excellence in every endeavor. That is what this book is about, you need to learn the proper way to do things before you explore, deconstruct and critic.
I am always currently reading this book.
Un libro de referencia, no para leer de un tirón. Es una buenísima base y sacador de apuros de consulta.
How does one rate the quintessential master? Magnifique!
Escoffier was a pioneer with respect to the education of professional chefs, and originally wrote this book for the use of those working in grand houses, in hotels, on ocean liners, and in restaurants who might not have had access to contemporary recipes.
The association between strong spices and poor quality was powerful enough to survive long into the 20th century, as any reader of a 1950s American cookbook can attest.As for the recipes themselves, I doubt that many of them could be prepared by the North American home cook.
. A foreword by Heston Blumenthal puts this edition in context: "[Escoffier] said he wanted the book to be 'a useful tool rather than just a recipe book,' and that's exactly what it is." Another nice grace note--a very brief biography of Escoffier on pages xx-xxii by his grandson Pierre P.
He speaks of basic preparations, such as stocks, glazes, mirepoix, and so on.
Then, some general principles on preparing sauces.
In short, one gains his perspective on sauces before actually exploring individual recipes.All in all, a most enjoyable volume for an amateur cook like me.
An encyclopedic French/English cookbook from the turn of the century.
Cooking methods at the turn of the century were much less, well, cookbook than they are now; a cook had to know how to manipulate the fire and the materials.
That's still true at a high level of proficiency, of course, but the mass-market cookbooks we're used to no longer operate that way.A word of warning--if you don't eat bacon, this book will be of limited usefulness.
As disgusting as it is to grind meat now...imagine forcing it through a sieve by hand all day as the forcemeat-maker.
A Guide to Modern Cookery
Serious, heavy-weight reference for old-school professional French cooking. Novice cooks might find it intimidating, in the same way novice readers could find Tolstoy's War and Peace overwhelming.
I read through this like it was Jane Austen. I spent the first run through circling recipes that I thought I could pull off on a normal grocery budget (because who can afford to throw truffles into everything?). My second read will be in the kitchen, I can't wait.
Mission: Read a cookbook with no pictures that requires heavy use of glossary. Done and Done. But who can make a Peach Melba the old fashioned way? Me. It's so like me to start with the desserts. I'll learn to make game stock and bechamel later...
You can't really review "The Bible" unfavourably, that's just being contrary. Escoffier, in his seminal book, sets out as many as 33 types of consommé. He concisely puts all variations of stock, court-bouillon and everything else. THE reference book for classical French cookery.
I was just about to shell out $50 or so dollars to obtain this classic cookbook, when an aproned angel appeared to guide me to the FREE ONLINE VERSION here...(And just in time for Thanksgiving! 🦃)https://archive.org/details/cu3192400...
THE definitive cookbook. Not read fully, but skimmed, marveling at the quantities of meat put into good sauces. Worth reading to understand the exact basis of french cuisine, and then the commercial art of cooking.
https://archive.org/stream/cu31924000...
VERY detailed text for the aspiring chef. A bit over my head, but still got some great tips out of it.
im continually strolling through this book for some sort of inspiration or a laugh.it's a classic. you know.
Ongoing interesting reading... seeing into the mind of the absolute culinary idealist!!! INSPIRING
Seriously, it's a book to read and study. I love that this book already assumes you know how to cook and that it was originally written for professionals.
yeah yeah yeah, i know. Two from escoffier?! I went to a french culinary school. Give me a friggen break! plus between my chef (chris) and i we have both. YEAH.
Another indispensable cooking reference. You need this book if you love to cook!
Just got this from Powells. Very exciting.
15?
Fabulous reference guide
The best breakdown of French cooking I've seen
