https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1062898.Miss_Mole
The story concentrates on Miss Mole, a 40ish housekeeper working for a minister's family, who makes her own fun by use of her sharp, witty mind.
So it's kind of a disappointment when the ending begins to devolve into a more typical scandalous-past love story.
It's not entirely typical--no melodrama (leave that to the kids in the minister's family, oh man)--but the last few pages definitely dip toward oh-I-am-saved territory.
That's not to discount the rest of the book--I'm pretty happy with it on the whole--but you'd think the interesting figure of Miss Mole would be able to use that mind to deal with her past herself, love affair notwithstanding.
Hannah Mole is certainly the most well-developed character, but there is also Robert Corder, a minister and her employer.
Also strong supporting characters are Corder's daughters, Ruth and Ethel.
All stuffy things had been implied, for Ruth, in the name of housekeeper; stuffy frocks, thick stockings, a prim face and an oppressive sense of duty, yet here was Miss Mole looking, for all her lack of fashion, like a lady who belonged to a world unconnected with chapels, where beauty and leisure were expected and attained.
It was a peep through a door Ruth had always wanted to open, and she said quietly, "I like it when you're not darning."I don't think it is possible to create a really good character study without some action.
What a lovely book.Miss Mole is a wonderful character and she does get her man in the end.I loved it.
However, for me, the character of ‘Miss Mole’ set off a different series of initial associations: the more complex women of Barbara Pym and Anita Brookner or those found in novels like ‘Lolly Willowes’ and ‘The Vet’s Daughter’, whose ‘invisible’ lives are shot through with melancholy.
I realise this makes ‘Miss Mole’ sound like a sombre read but it’s saved from that by Young’s wry observations and some wonderfully humorous passages ‘the burglar and the wig’ for example, as well as a ‘fairy-tale’ romantic ending.
This is quite a slow read I found, but not in a bad way, Miss Mole is the kind of novel that it is worth taking your time over.
I loved the character of Hannah Mole, as she's not wholly conventional, a wonderfully flawed character, speaks her mind - tells fibs, sometimes a little sad, sometimes cynical.
We see Hannah Mole's life and her past in a rather disjointed non-chronological way - as if Hannah is keeping her secrets to herself untill the very last.
Poor Miss Mole, her best years behind her, no home of her own, an embarrassment to her cousin - she nevertheless enriches the lives of several people around her.
Oh Miss Mole, you long suffering thing.
Honestly, I don’t know how you do it.
Suppressing all of that intelligence, wit and humour takes a lot of energy and I don’t blame you for the occasional outburst.
Do not judge yourself so harshly.
You are not the type of person who can suffer fools gladly.
I would have been so grateful for your love and attention.
(And your love of fine shoes is so endearing!) What a shame that your secret past is about to undo all the fine work you’ve done with this poor screwed up family.
The novel's premise is fairly simple--it is a classic governess tale, complete with shrewish, snobby female relative, clueless bachelor love-interest, and horrible, spoiled kids.
To be fair, Miss Mole is not precisely a governess--she's employed as a housekeeper for Mr. Robert Corder's somewhat unconventional family.
In this respect, Miss Mole is a fairly conventional story--perky governess/housekeeper whips everyone around her into shape with a combination of clever tricks, charisma, and refreshing candor.
To put it bluntly--Miss Mole is a window into a generation of women who were completely unprepared for the radical social changes of the twentieth century.
This is my first book by E H Young and I am enraptured. There are touches reminiscent of Barbara Pym and Dorothy Whipple, but she definitely has her own unique style. This was a page turner and quite delightful. Now I will begin the happy task of reading many more of her novels.
She would leave but younger daughter Ruth, emotionally fragile and still reeling from the death of her mother, really needs Miss Mole's kindness and humor.
Mr. Corder also wages his own battle with Mr. Bleckinsop, who wants to leave the chapel and with Mr. Pilgrim, a rival minister and mystery man from Hannah's past.
When Hannah's past threatens to catch up to her, she makes plans to leave but can't bear to continue on as before.
Miss Mole manages to get Ruth to come out of her shell a bit.
Miss Mole's cousin Lilla was also a bit annoying.
Brilliant.I know that word is overly used in reviews but frankly, there is no better word for this book.
Miss Mole is not always a reliable narrator but not in the newfangled "Girl on the Train" sense but in the very human way we have of trying to make our lives less drab and humdrum and dare I say it, less sad?There are moments in this book, true moments that will stay with you and so many great passages.
Here is one that jumped out at me and will give you a taste of the prose;"I shall never forget it," he said, his head in his hands."No, but other people will , and that's what really matters.
I'm surprised there aren't more readers of this masterpiece. (Almost) all appear to be female as well. My gender's loss.
A masterpiece in every sense, both in the conception of the character of the optimistic, ever-adventurous Hannah Mole, and in the inventiveness of the storytelling. Hannah's dreary poverty, and the slights of her daily life, are presented with matter-of-fact clarity, no sentimentality, and with the author's dry wit. The author doesn't over-dramatize the limitations imposed on Hannah, but one bristles for her sake, and by extension, for all women. I will read this one again and again.

To begin with I really disliked the character of Miss Mole but she grew on me, as did the book, although I liked Chatterton Square more.
I kept longing to mark them with the double-stem-backward-P in red where they should have been broken into two or three.
I, for one, having seen how often she missed the mark, even knowing how often she hit it, can't believe that she found her True Love at last.Still, there is something to be said for kindness, acceptance and attention.
I did wonder about Corder's relationship to his younger daughter, Ruth, though.
Better to put the two girls in one room, if the younger was having troubles sleeping after her mother's death, surely.
Ruth makes an odd comment about her father's not being in his room at one point.
Valiant heroine with a sense of humour, comedy of manners that isn't as obviously frothy as Miss Pettigrew lives for a day though in many ways similar. A sweet book with a happy ending that is a relief.
Miss Mole is a fantastic character. Subversive and original. An all around feel good read
Striving to keep body and soul together without killing the soul, Miss Mole savours the small adventures, little beauties (with some remarkably vivid glimpses of turn of the 20th Radstowe/Bristol), the frequent absurdities and the rare moments of kindness that come her way.
Trouble has been brewing between the lines, and Miss Mole, without Miss Poste's youth, beauty, or relative wealth and social position, has few defenses against nasty-minded people.
(hide spoiler)]If Miss Mole (the character) has a lot in common with Mary Crawford or Lizzie Bennet, the book is more like _Excellent Women_ or _Persuasion_.
(view spoiler)[ "But I want safety now!
An interwar social comedy, Miss Mole delves into the psychology of one of Britain’s cruelly termed “superfluous  women.” Hannah Mole, intelligent, imaginative, witty, capable, perceptive and mischievous, kicks at having to efface her own self for a life of drudgery in other people's houses.
As the novel opens, she takes up a post as housekeeper to a  Nonconformist minister, his two motherless daughters, and your requisite drawlingly sympathetic young man called Wilfrid, a household at which post-WWI modernity is barely lapping at the edges.
Miss Mole isn't quite as taut as an Austen novel, but it’s a joy to read anyway.
How many changes and social shifts there have been since 1930 when this novel was written, and what a distance those changes create between us and the characters of this novel, given life choices and options that are available for women today.
Miss Hannah Mole has been fired as a companion to an elderly woman for taking too long on an errand and frequently not resisting the temptation to say what she is thinking.
Her next place (found with the help of a cousin) is as a housekeeper to a widowed minister, his two children and nephew.
"She was grateful to Fortune who, in making her a servant, had remembered to give her freedom and happiness in herself.", 15 April 2016This review is from: MISS MOLE (Timeless Wisdom Collection Book 1576) (Kindle Edition)Verified Purchase(What is this?)Miss Hannah Mole is a spinster nearing forty who earns her living as a companion/ housekeeper.
Set in the years between the wars, Hannah Mole is a 40ish woman, poor, reduced to acting as companion to demanding old ladies or - as the book opens - being found a job as housekeeper to a minister by her rich cousin.
But Hannah Mole is wry, funny, ironic and has the most developed and true sense of self of any heroine I can think of.
Hannah finds a richness in life that must astound, given the narrowness and paucity of her life.
It is as wry, funny and ironic as Hannah herself.
Reading this book was kind of a weird experience.
The reader is kept on the hop, trying to piece together connections, relationships, from glimpses, hints mysterious jokes and allusions.So, as a result, I understood the main character's situation at just about the same moment as it was resolved -- at the very end of the book.
This was kind of mystifying, but not as frustrating as it sounds.
Because in addition to the obscure plot, there were also many completely relatable bits about what it's like to be alive, in the natural world and in the confusing world of human relationships.
The book captures the experience of being a servant in the 30s, and the experience of being expected to conform every single thing that comes out of your mouth and every look to whatever will best appease the ego of your employer- and hardly ever having even a little escape from them.
Yet in Miss Mole, you found a character who has created a own rich inner life in order to deal with this existence.
But the real greatness of the book is creating a character as memorable as Miss Mole- flawed and human and yet deeply fascinating.
Miss Mole is a very unusual woman and a wonderful heroine for this story.
She has been companion to several difficult older women by the time she is maneuvered/maneuvers herself into the non-conformist Rev Corder's house as the housekeeper.
Perhaps she does come across as shabby and insignificant to most people but there is an amazing sense of dignity in her that is innate and not tied to her work and grants her great freedom in herself regardless of the circumstances.
Hannah Mole is a creative being who sees her world clearly and this is celebrated - which is a wonderful thing in a novel.
A fantastic, old fashioned novel full of wit and truth. A must read. This novel should be considered a classic. Much better than EMMA and just about as good as WUTHERING HEIGHTS, only with a much better ending. Reading this book may make you aware of how little you care for others even though you believe you are supremely sensitive and charitable. You may come to see how often you deceive yourself. This book may cause you to laugh at yourself. Perhaps you will realize how much forgiveness you demand and how little you mete out.
I really liked it but was a bit disappointed with the final section of the book.
Too many coincidences occurring and too many loose ends neatly tied together.
I love Young's characterizations and her sense of place.
I was expecting too much because I knew that it had won the Black prize in the year of its publication.
Young's prose is so easy to read as it flows like a stream.
I want to read every one of her books.
She creates fascinating and interesting characters and I believe that she was a woman who was ahead of her time both in her fiction and in her life.
What a lovely story. I wish I had a Miss Mole nearby to visit and have tea with. Hannah Mole must hire out as a housekeeper in order to have a place to live and food to eat. She is intelligent, full of humour, hard-working, kind, and still hopeful that she will have a happy life. She looks after the minister's home and family, and makes them better than they were. She meets the shy, lonely Mr. Blenkinsop, and helps him live his life happily.
Poor Miss Mole. Smart, witty, funny, down on her luck. Educated well but now a housekeeper, Miss Mole never really lets go of her dreams or daydreams for that matter, while trying to smooth out a family after the loss of their much-loved mother. Loved Miss Mole's snarky comments, her bravery, and yes, her breakdowns all while trying to keep her past a secret. Her "torture" of cousin Lilla was the best, and I did love the ending.
I am rereading Miss Mole for the umpteenth time...I love E.H. Young and many other authors published by Virago Press...Miss Mole is a paean to the idea of how an independently minded woman can go against society's rules while all the time appearing to conform...it is a delightful book...Just completed Miss Mole...it still has the same magic...no wonder it's considered to be her masterpiece...
