https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46583.The_Broken_Gun
Oh Louis L'amour...I used to always make fun of people that read Louis L'amour, but now I very proudly admit that I belong to that club.
The writing is quick and the stories perfectly western.
I suppose it's not that surprising that I like Louis L'amour, growing up with John Wayne had me primed and ready to fall in love with western reading.
I it was set in "present times" which, for L'amour, was the sixties.
There is nothing distinguishing about the story, it is what is - a classic Louis L'amour.
Short, fun, to the point and full of "rough-ridin." Good times.
L'Amour dedicated this book to Alan Ladd and Ladd's best friend William Bendix.
It was published a couple years after they both died, and I really felt while reading this that I could see and hear Alan Ladd as the main character.
He actually would have worked well in multiple roles here.)I know that when Alan Ladd starred in "Guns of the Timberland" (1960), which was based on one of L'Amour's books, the two of the became friends.
"The Broken Gun" is unlike any other L'Amour book I've ever read in one major way: it's set in the middle of the 20th century.
This was my first L’Amour novel I’ve ever read. I know, I’m starting to read them a little later in my life. I was pleasantly surprised that this was a mystery/thriller. I’m now hooked.
I see a well illustrated old west themed cover to a Louis L'Amour book, the title 'The Broken Gun' and I plunge into a novel that instantly confuses me.
It takes a few pages to realize when in time this novel falls.
By the third page the Korean War is mentioned.Involving stroytelling, time should be established in some way off the top if a story about different time periods is being unraveled.
L'Amour clearly had trouble with writing about his present.A number of things bother me about the writing of this book.
Bottom line: I don't recommend this book.
33rd book read in 2016.Number 360 out of 526 on my all time book list. Review Pending:
Sometimes you really need to see the good guys win. The action in this book is fast-paced, tough, and smart. Yes, parts of it are probably beyond belief. It was fun anyway.
This is much different from most of the stories written by Louis L'Amour. It is based on a modern day adventure, a writer buys a Colt dragon pistol from the 1861 period that is broken from an antique dealer. Inside the barrel are the pages of a journal telling the cattle drive from Texas to New Mexico, their settlement their and death at the hands of the men working for them. In writing about the story, he becomes involved in investigating recent deaths, and his own attempted murder.
A good, quick read. It's not precisely a western, a bit of a noir, and told in the first person. A writer's investigation leads him into a trap. His war experience, the help of a good woman, and another veteran aid him in his escape. By the end of the novel, I was hearing Humphrey Bogart's voice when the protagonist spoke. I recommend this book.
Just like the proving Trail just in modern times and less killing. Just dan Sheridan a author of western and historical books, with the wells which are the bad guys and belle who just knows some of what's going on in the ranch and who owns the ranch legally which I will not tell to the ending. Just a good modern western that you can read in three days.
*4.5/5
Really good! Unusual L’amour as it is set in fairly modern times (1960’s - 70’s) where a writer is investigating the disappearance of a couple of cowboys and their 4000 head of cattle 90 years ago.
Classic Louie L'Amour set in modern history - good guys, bad guys and a lady in distress!
Read in the 80s
The main character was too arrogant for me, but the storyline was good.
This story is set in modern time; I prefer his stories in the past.
Not my favorite. The modern setting just seems off and doesn't quite carry the punch these stories normally deliver.
Starts off written in a confusing style - by the time you figure out what's going on, the book feels like it's written in an off-putting, unnatural style. Neat idea, but unconvincing.
Simple and fun, packed with action but seldom mindless. A good bang for your buck !
Didn’t know L’Amour wrote modern day westerns. This takes place in the 1960’s......in Arizona. Maybe not his best, but still good.
A really terrible book. It was selected by one of my book clubs. I was surprised at how bad it was. I know these were very popular in the forties and fifties.
From a day before cell phones and the internet.
4. Simple writing but awfully exciting.
L'Amour is a master of painting incredible visuals.
Fun twist on a typical Louis L'Amour- a modern day author solving an almost century old murder in the old West.
A somewhat more modern western, involving a Korean war vet using the skills that helped him escape POW camps survive a murder attempt on a remote ranch.
It’s written in first person long after the narrator was in the Korean War, long after he’s built a comfortable life for himself as a writer of westerns.
Research for his latest book leads him to danger when his research unearths clues to a century-old crime—but he doesn’t realize until after we do that there are still people benefiting from that crime.While it’s not in my opinion one of L’Amour’s best, it is interesting watching the narrator go through a sort of stages of grief for finding out someone wants you dead: denial, bargaining, anger, and so on.
I don't know if it's a personal issue - I'm not particularly a fan of Westerns so I am not well read in the genre.
Curiosity piqued, Sheridan decides to investigate the journal's story - ninety years previous twenty-seven men and four thousand head of cattle vanished en route to Arizona.
Even if fans of Louis L'Amour were reading this book I don't think they would consider it emotionally gripping or epic.
I don't think that I would recommend this particular book to someone wanting to read Westerns - rather, I'd just point them to Louis L'Amour in general.
Dan Sheridan buys an old broken gun in a pawn shop and finds part of a ninety year old journal wrapped up and stuck inside the barrel.
Now as the deadly cat and mouse game plays out there is a large ranch and the life of a beautiful woman at stake.When I was 13 years old I discovered Louis L'Amour.
I read every book I could get my hands on.
It has been a long time since I read one of his books.
They are tough as the land that they come from.
Dan Sheridan is a writer and historian of the Old West.
Shortly thereafter he is invited by a local rancher to visit his home, which happens to be the last known whereabouts of the Toomey Bros., whose mysterious disappearance some ninety years before Sheridan was looking into.
All too soon, the writer discovers that there was a reason for his invitation to the ranch and that he might not be able to leave it alive.
It seems the current occupants of the ranch have something to hide and they don't want the mystery of the Toomey's discovered.
The Broken Gun written by louis L’aumer is about some person that goes by the of dan went to the wild west in search of the toomy brothers.
He is very soon to realize what happened to the toomy brothers, But will dan himself make it out of harm's way?One part of the book I enjoyed was that he would make the surrounding picture clear to image in my head.
The Broken Gun isn’t the best book I read but definitely not the worst and that's why I rated it three stars.
"The Broken Gun" by Louis L'Amour holds journal pages from John Toomey, whose brother Clyde, the best of 27 men, and 4K cattle vanished from 1870s Arizona.
Ninety years later, the narrator, writer Dan Sheridan, is invited to the ranch of good-looking hard-hearted Colin and Doris Wells, whose hand Reese just killed Manuel Alvarez, before he could pass on vital information to Dan. Ignorant that Dan as an elite soldier repeatedly escaped with victim's brother Pio, the conspirators plot more deaths, mistake the experienced born and bred Westerner for a greenhorn, disregard the attraction of innocent pretty Belle Dawson, neighbor and legitimate heir, in all underestimate their opposition.
