https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/464682.Nomads_of_Gor
But amongst all this diversity, one thing (surprisingly) remains the same wherever Tarl Cabot goes: every society he encounters captures pretty girls and uses them (branded, chained, and collared) as pleasure slaves.John Norman’s favorite trick is to turn a beautiful, independent, and feisty woman into a slave.
Now, I’ve finally realized what their problem is… they’re all idiots.This is how it goes:Man: You are beautiful and feisty so I want you to be my slave, wench!
I’ve got Stupid Wench #2 over there and she’s way better than you.Stupid Wench #1: What?
Don’t you think I’m pretty?Man: You are not worth much.Stupid Wench #1: Fight for me!
In Turia I had learned nothing, unfortunately, of the answers to the mystery of the message collar or to the appearance of Miss Elizabeth Cardwell on the southern plains of Gor. Cabot buys some wine because Kamchak paid for admission tickets to see a slave girl dance, even though Cabot was the one who lost the bet for who had to pay for the admissions, and there was a scene of him grudgingly giving the payment to Kamchak while looking at all of Kamchak's wealth.He gets stalked around by a person whose job it is to torture and assassinate people, and all Cabot thinks is, "Oh, that guy must be curious about me!"
I'll explore this in much more detail in later books (and will make sure to jot down examples of what I'm talking about next time, in that I can't find the relevant quotes again now that I've finished this particular book); but for those keeping track, this fourth book is officially where this transition starts occurring, from fairly innocent "Save me, burly Conan!" fantasy-novel sex-slave territory into a much more disquieting attitude of, "Let's punish all women because I asked out the secretary of my office building and she turned me down." It hasn't been enough yet to drive me away from the series altogether, so expect my review of book 5, Assassins of Gor, sometime next week.
In the end, Tarl Cabot, who can always be relied upon to teach a girl her place, manages to bring her round to his point of view and convince our pretty little barbarian that she would of course be infinitely happier by submitting, and becoming his slave girl.
So, she bets him he can't in fact convince her of this, only to promptly lose, thereby ending a wonderful chapter(25, mentioned above) literally begging him to make her his slave, and even handing him the slave collar.
Although a professor on Earth, Cabot becomes a barbarian warrior on the planet of Gor. Beasts are vanquished; heads roll, and alien women succumb to his manly ways as if he were Captain Kirk himself.
It just might have grown up to be Tarl Cabot of Gor. And if you throw in way more obsessive attention to flora and fauna than you would ever expect in a barbarian pulp novel, well then you might begin to get an idea of what this book is like.
Again Tarl is not much different, he's pretty much just the same old Tarl, but the other characters really make the book.
The relationship Tarl and Elizabeth (slave name Vella) build is very engrossing.
Norman does a great job of making Vella the fantasy woman every man wants (note I said Vella, not Elizabeth).Again as in the last book, we have the themes of mass warfare, aggressive competition, and epic struggles.
Either way, its entertaining.This book brings the BDSM element of the series to full effect.
A lot of that is done through the character Vella and her interaction with the Tuchuks and Tarl.
Three months of shoddy writing and horrible characterization.
Three months of reading about men constantly pounding their chests and grunting about how manly and dominating they are.
Three months reading about simpering women who love being helpless slaves to Big Strong Men.Honestly, though, it's a shame that Norman jumps the shark here, because if you strip the books of their stupid "slavery is good" undertones, and actually introduce decent writing, the main plot could be very, very good.But it isn't, so I'm going to walk away from this series now before it has a chance to get worse.
I don't know why I keep reading these.
The storytelling is not that good.
At times it's too much detail that one is clearly not interested in.
This book finally races past kinky and steps firmly into the realm of sadomasochism.
Not really necessary.
Tarl Cabot is a confusing character with shifty morals; most of the times I dislike him.
However, towards the end, the storytelling gets tighter, I started becoming more interested in the characters and by then it's done.
I enjoyed the end, so instead of giving it 1 star, I'll give it two.
What Norman does is talk a bit more about the psychology of such male 'heroes': such a world where women are left so helpless to monsters and villains would also impose the right of the man to take all that he will.
So complaining about the treatment and depiction of women in the series is like complaining the dinosaurs in Jurassic Park kill people.Nomads of Gor is the funnest one in the series so far and I loved the new characters who liven things up.
The heavy descriptions start coming at you and much information is given to the reader with statements like "I learned later that..."With so much information and so little action, this book moves slowly.
This is also the poorest editing of the series so far with many grammatical errors.Norman makes an astute observation that unlike on Gor, slavery on Earth is more subtle and invisible where people often disbelieve it.Things start to become more interesting around 30% in but Norman guides you by the hand through each step.
The bones of the story:Our "hero" Tarl Cabot finds himself sent to the Wagon peoples to rescue the last egg, and last hope, of the Priest-Kings.
Tarl breaks into the city of the merchant who had the egg stolen and is captured.
He then heads to defend the wagons and when it looks like he must die in this fight he is rescued by the arrival of the other clans.
Tarl leaves the Wagon people with the egg and a free woman in toe.You see, one paragraph to explain the basic plot but it is wrapped in waffle!
Well I am glad I managed to finish the 4th book in the series and I'm on my way to finish them all o
At the same time, they are not written in a way as to be entirely sexual, he merely casts about components and subtle subtext that one familiar with the lifestyle would of course pick up on, while a "vanilla" person could read right over without ever noticing or being offended.The worst part of this series is it's highly addictive quality.
Not long after I read my first book, I found myself at a Second Hand BookStore in Dallas purchasing a paperbag FULL of the entire series.
Definitely my favorite of the series so far.
I think my friend explained it best, this is basically like cowboys, but with cooler mounts!
Considering I definitely have a thing for cowboys, it's no wonder this appealed to me.
I'm reading the e-book, so I'm not sure if there are just a lot of spelling errors in this version, or if it's an overall thing for this book, but that was really the only thing I did not like about it.
It became really distracting, and sometimes I wasn't sure if the spelling errors were intentional or not.
Each book builds on the last in an every-increasing description of the slave/master mentality and while it is certainly based on a grossly simplified characterization of men and women, there are nuances that at very least serve as interesting bits to ponder and discuss. The story itself is largely simple though the writing keeps getting better with each book, but it is fun and that sometimes is all that's needed.
Tarl Cabot comes to the land of the Mongol Hordes ... Errr, that is, the Land of the Wagon People. His quest: to find and return the lost egg of Priest Kings.This is one of the most cinematic of all the novels, and also the one with the most engaging supporting characters, and the most humour, too. It introduces Elisabeth Cardwell, and seques neatly into the one novel I love above all of them - 'Assassin'. What I'd give to see that one on screen.
Not quite as resplendent with painting the picture as the first three books in the series. I read the series when I was 19 and now I am rereading it a 55. It's been a trip through time for me so far. It took me a little work to find the entire series as they have been out of print for some time. I had accompanied my wife to her used bookstore to carry the book in and out and I stumbled onto the first 3 books. I devoured them in a few days.
I read this whole series in a marathon session, while stationed in England. The depth and volume of the stories is humbling for any writer and I consider this series very influential in my own approach to writing and world building in general; generic post for all the books in this series as I am finally getting around to recording my reading list in Goodreads.
Going through the Gor series for the first time, I find myself wondering if Norman occasionally got tired of his hero.
There were so many times I wanted to smack Tarl's noggin in this installment of the series!
I imagined the conversations between she and Tarl as Norman's fantasy arguments with some of the feminists of the day.
I will say, (view spoiler)[I was quite shocked when Tarl internally considers rape as a means of ending the debate.
In the end, I still felt smarter than Tarl, and I think that's what accounted for my frustrations with the book.
It's fine, but Norman is gradually spending more time with philosophical disquisitions and conversations about how women are only truly free and happy when they submit to a strong male master and all that.
With this worldbuilding, there is a quite enjoyable story to be told here, with or without the BDSM themes, but Norman doesn't quite get there.
He is just not that good of a writer and would seriously need to submit to a strong editor, male or otherwise, who would streamline his storytelling.
I've now read four books into the Gorean Saga.
After four books, I still don't know what I like about Gor. It is kind of like Konan the Barbarian met a 10-year-old script writer.
So, this is not fine literature.
However, it is entertaining and somehow engaging.
The endless action gives the book a nice pace, and the mindless plot is sort of relaxing because you won't have to think much to keep up.
There is a bit of a turn toward the end of the book where John Norman goes off the rails and starts preaching about the virtues of being enslaved --- otherwise, not a bad book.
Of the four Norman Gor books I've read, this being 4th, this was least impressive to me. yes the world building is thorough and exceedingly creative, the character building is compelling, but the desire to back fill the history of things caused me to skim more than a few times.Overall, fair.
Read this in the 70s along with several other Gor novels.
Great bookAnother well perhaps one of the best stories of GOR. Excellent series. Superb indeed.Years into the future these books will hold
Good readExcellent action-adventureA engrossing Tale in an exotic worldOriginal story concepts and great character developmentA truly great story
These books are difficult to rate (and, honestly, pretty difficult to read).
This story was pretty interesting, the Wagon People were an interesting group, but the whole slavery / sexism thing is getting worse in every book.
It's like it started as a something that exists (and was accepted) in the novels' world to a focal point and topic of philosophy (that is promoted).
I saw someone's comment on Goodreads for an earlier novel in the series that this is like watching a slow-motion train-wreck that is hard to look away from.
I will probably read another one.
This series appears to have gone downhill quickly.Tarl (super warrior and the world's most desirable man) is now searching for the last remaining egg of the Priest-Kings (giant golden ants) in the realms of the wagon people (warriors who have wagons...
After convincing the hostile wagon people that they should love him for his huge warrior attributes, he gets on with turning a poor earth girl into a slave, whilst causing every girl within sight to swoon over him and throw their Gorean panties at him.
But the parts where he seduces Elizabeth and she turns into his mindless sex slave...
This book would have gotten 5 stars, except that the first 100 pages were solely concerned with world-building relative to the Wagon People's of Gor and was very dull.
Afterwards the plot really took off and turned into a fine story concerning Tarl Cabot's mission to find and recover a certain object which is of great value to the Priest-Kings of Gor, which were the subject of the previous book in this series.
The chapter where he and Tarl Cabot pay a nighttime visit to the big city was absolutely hysterical.The Gor books will never be listed among the ranks of the world's best literature, no doubt.
It isn't the story-telling, which is just a John Carter knock-off.
It isn't the action, which is OK.
("A woman cannot truly be free until she submits utterly as a slave to a man." *yawn* Even Christian Grey could come up with something better than that, and he's a putz.)Sadly, this fourth book of the Gor series has the least world building thus far, and consequently, was the least enjoyable for me.
It also really bothered me that in this book, Cabot apparently gives up on his quest to find his beloved wife, Talena.
Tarl has dedicated his life to ensuring that the Priest-Kings survive the harsh lands of Gor, but a savage tribe that closely guards its secrets has halted his quest.
To continue his quest, Tarl must unravel the mysteries of this strange, private band of nomads called the Wagon People or die trying.
Now he is embarking on the most perilous adventure of his time on the counter-world of Gor. Will he be accepted by the tribe and learn the secrets they guard with their lives or will he die trying?
