https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3244471-the-beast
Ο ήρωας μας του οποίου το δεξί χέρι έχει ακρωτηριαστεί, βρίσκει μια περίεργη μηχανή σε σχήμα λουκουμά.
Το εύρημα αυτό έχει ένα ισχυρό πεδίο ενέργειας.
Επειδή μυρίστηκε πως θα κερδίσει χρήματα από το μαραφέτι, το παίρνει σπίτι του.
Εκεί παρατηρεί πως το κομμένο του άκρο ξαναφυτρώνει λες και είναι ουρίτσα από λιμοντίρι.Μην τα πολυλογώ, τον απαγάγουν οι άνθρωποι του προέδρου της Αμερικής, ξανακόβεται το χέρι του, ξαναφυτρώνει για δεύτερη φορά, τον στέλνουν στο φεγγάρι για πειράματα, εκεί το σκάει και τον πιάνουν οι άνθρωποι του νεαντερτάλιου Μεγάλου Ατζαμή, οι οποίοι δουλειά τους είναι να απαγάγουν νεαρές Γερμανίδες από τη γή και να τις φέρνουν πίσω στη σελήνη με σκοπό την αναπαραγωγή και μπλα μπλα μπλα…Ότι να΄ναι.Κανονικά έπρεπε να βάλω δύο αστεράκια στη βαθμολογία γιατί θέλει ιδιαίτερη προσπάθεια για να γράψει κανείς κάτι τόσο κακό.
The very fact that his characters were a bit distant and aloof allowed van Vogt to write about supermen.
(But of course, not equal to our hero, because remember he is toti-potent.) Now, we certainly don't have to assume that van Vogt held denigrating ideas about women, but his writing may be less palatable to many.BUT....
Sadly, this is not the book to which I would steer a new SF fan in hopes that they might read van Vogt and gain an appreciation for some of the early works.For fans only, or for those who like a challenge.
Or that's what it feels like because the story changes so drastically three or four times.
There are women in the book that take a serum to make them the 'equal' of men.
But apparently the jokes on them because other women don't like them, men think they are odd and don't want to marry them, and no one will employ them.Then, randomly, the president has to win the "most fantastic election in the history in the history of America" because a woman is running for president.
It's more pulp sci-fi style, like what they would write in the 30's.
This fix-up was cobbled together by using three short stories that were originally published Astounding Science Fiction magazine:"The Great Engine"- July 1943 (Chapters 1-5)"The Changeling"- April 1944 (Chapters 5-11)Linking material (Chapters 12-13)"The Beast"- November 1943 (Chapters 14-31 and Epilogue)Not one of his best efforts as far as a fix-up novel.
The second part, based on “The Changeling”, and, as far as I understand it, though not quite a good as the first story, it manages to propel the plot forward with the new elements.
Better to read these stories separately as they were first originally published rather than this cannibalization.
In essence the story is about a man who stumbles over an alien engine and is changed by it in just about any way you could imagine: physically (He grows back a lost arm).
And last but not least, he ultimately becomes an advocate for an egalitarian society; one which has room for everyone, even a transplanted in time Neanderthal (The beast).Along the way he confuses characters and motivations, leaving a trail of broken story bits and pieces.
What he does not do is abandon his built-in belief that women are created to serve men and not much else.
Not a very convincing global view of his egalitarian beliefs.
My devotion to sci-fi movies, StarTrek, Stargate, Dr. Who, and such has never quite translated into reading the genre. But I keep trying. The Beast is one of those that is so complicated if not convoluted that I'm not sure I know what happened. A highly intelligent Neanderthal, regrowth of severed limbs, strange transport and stranger engines, telepathic incidents, million-year-old Moon colonies ... I enjoyed the ride but I'm not sure where I went.Post scriptI then discovered through wandering i
My devotion to sci-fi movies, StarTrek, Stargate, Dr. Who, and such has never quite translated into reading the genre. But I keep trying. The Beast is one of those that is so complicated if not convoluted that  I'm not sure I know what happened. A highly intelligent Neanderthal, regrowth of severed limbs, strange transport and stranger engines, telepathic incidents, million-year-old Moon colonies ... I enjoyed the ride but I'm not sure where I went.Post scriptI then discovered through wandering in cyberspace that The Beast is likely a conflation of three different shorter stories. That would explain a lot.
It rapidly got a whole lot weirder, with a Gene Wolfe-like continued memory lapse on the part of the hero, a neanderthal on the moon, the president’s private army of lonely super-women, and a secret Nazi insurgency in East Germany.While parts of the book were written in the forties, my copy has as its most recent copyright date 1963, and I’m guessing it was partly rewritten at that point, since some of the characters refer to Nam, clearly meaning Vietnam (which had recently escalated).
The story itself was...
odd, but not in a Philip K Dick fun kind of way, rather it just felt like a mess of ideas with no real focus.
And don't get me started on the main character.
Very much a stereotype of the strong masculine character we were all meant to aspire to be back in the '50s, this guy doesn't verge on psychopath, he lives there.
This made him so incredibly unrelatable that I could never get into this story.
Still, it was a quick read and action packed so ok if you like that sort of thing.
Van Vogt's book's themes of eternal youth, amnesia and the physical monster that the amnesia victim becomes, have all been themes running through my own work.But yes, what is uncanny is that I had precisely "forgotten" the Beast's references to amnesia...
E. van Vogt rejuvenated, and has forgotten who he is in that same process of rejuvenation...Coming back to the book after some 40 years, these remarks are really the only good things I can say about it.
This novel is cartoonish, to say it has not aged well implies it was a good novel at some point which it wasn't.If the plot of Prometheus pisses you off when the captain suddenly decides the planet they are on is a weapons factory than the leaps of faith in this book are way more than you'll want to put up with, some of the other villains include the President of the United States who wants to live forever, a Neanderthal who has practically lived forever and the Beast itself which isn't introduced until the last third of the novel then doesn't do much but sit and wait to be fed.Moral of the story, always bet on superhuman or "toti-potent" Americans that can regrow their limbs, build death rays out of prison radios, have super strength, mind control powers, and know how to travel to the moon and back.
They can defeat any number of evil American Presidents, East Germans, and even one 1000s of year old Neanderthal...
Despite my admiration for this author, and my liking for SF, I can't actually recommend this book.
Indeed I have owned it for years but never before finished it I don't think.
Maybe I bought it for the Chris Foss cover, which like many SF paperback covers from the 1970s does not seem to relate in any way to the content of the book.It seems to be a story with multiple themes, some of them only marginally connected.
Indeed it might even have been the source of a recent film Iron Sky I should think.A.E.van Vogt has written much better stuff, so either pass this one or else don't give up on him.
I made the huge mistake to read this novel (?), i feel that if i had spent the same amount of time just staring at my rooftop,it would had been much more productive.The most chaotic book i have ever read.
The plot is so messy, the dialogues rediculus, the development is so confusing, the heroes are completely uninteresting, i have never met a mess like that.One out of five is fair, since if there was an option i would consider rating it with 0/5, however i liked the society of the moon that the writer has created and some of it's depiction.

Good book, I enjoyed reading it and the story was original and engaging. I raced through it keen to see what would happen next. A couple of downsides which really dated the book was the sexism (women need a drug to "equalize" them with men!) and much talk of East Germany and felt like it was still stuck in Nazism - it seems very outdated now but if you ignore those points all was good, it is Sci-Fi after all so it's not like all of it has to ring true.
I really wanted to enjoy this book more as there were quite a lot of concepts that seemed interesting. Unfortunately few of them were fleshed out or explored.The book jumped around between plots so wildly that I even checked to see if I was reading the same book. It felt at times as though I was reading the plot for 2 or 3 different books all lumped into one.
Okay, I'll just assume that that mess made sense...lol Big Oaf was a fun character at least. The old line about Poe comes to mind with Van Vogt: "3/5 of him genius and 2/5 sheer fudge." Still not sure how the engine ended up in Pendrake's back yard, but I suppose that was my fault for getting befuddled by all the rest of it (not A E's). :)
So disappointing when a good story is ruined by unexplained plot points. I was left with so many questions that I thought about this story more than it's small amount of enjoyment warranted. To me this was a case of rushing a story for a deadline without really following through. Too bad.
A great concept. I don't remember that much about it but Van Vogt could write.
Most strained of Van Vogt's mash ups but also most enteraining: traverse many an odd terrain and punctuated by many unbelievalbe 'black outs.' Very entertaining nonetheless.
Extremely ridiculous
Honestly, I've never read a Van Vogt novel that I've really enjoyed. It's always too many underdeveloped ideas thrown into a mixmaster, layered with some truly bizarre gender politics.
1981 grade A
I don't often read a whole book in one day, but I just couldn't put this one down. Hooked me from the start. Great storytelling.
Very imaginative but kind of a jumble in terms of plot and themes. Reminiscent of some of P.K. Dick's less successful novels. Mostly an entertaining read, but with a few bog spots.
I guess A. E. Van Vogt is sort of a guilty pleasure for me. Takes meback to being a middle-school aged kid with my nose in a cheap SF paperback.
A pointless book !!!
no perdere tiempo. carpe diem
