https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25053.Hello_Mrs_Piggle_Wiggle
This was a huge disappointment after how much we enjoyed Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle. Well, O. wasn't disappointed, but he's five and if it's silly, he likes it. The thing that most bothered me was that in this one, the "cures" were all magic potions, powders, etc., while in the first, they were actual things you could do (i.e. let kids who complain about going to bed stay up as late as they want until they realized that they're too exhausted to do fun things). Instead of the children learning a lesson, there was just a fix administered by the parents.
I like the part when Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle gave the girls Whisper sticks.
My kids have enjoyed every Piggle-Wiggle book I've read to them. I'm not sure what this says about them or my parenting... :D
My eight year old and I read this book for our mother-daughter book group. The other kids usually stayed up to listen as well and they liked the stories and laughed at the right parts, so I could tell they were paying attention. We liked the stories and I think if I call my kids 'slowpokes', now they'll really understand what I mean.
I didn't enjoy this one as much as the first. I was bothered by the fact that the cures in this one were more 'magical' as opposed to "commonsensical" and that the parents thought nothing of 'medicating' other people's children!!!
I really enjoyed this. It was funny but not as creative as the other ones.
I love the imagination and old-timey sentiment that went into these books. And I love that you can basically read them in any order.
I thought about giving this book 3 stars, but decided on just 2...
mainly because of how disappointed I was reading it compared to the first one!
The kids in this book are quit a bit naughtier then in the first one, to the point where it wasn't funny and I skipped over a few paragraphs while reading it to my 5 year old because I didn't want to give her any bad ideas!
The cures were disappointing to...
instead of actual remedies that taught the children lessons it was just a quick pill or something and poof they were all better...
My (almost) five year old daughter really likes Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle. She is fairly entertaining with her crazy suggestions and remedies for any number of problems (i.e. being a slow poke, being boastful, etc.). I appreciate the author's creativity with the names of characters, such as Mr. and Mrs. Quadrangle. The book is definitely dated as evidenced by young children being left at home alone, but this doesn't impact the story too much. It is kind of fun to remember how lives of children used to be several decades ago.
These felt a little long but pleasant and engaging for the kids and highlight some of the behaviors they need help on :)
It’s an odd switch, but I’m guessing the actual second book, Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle’s Magic is thus named so as to let you know that things would be taking the turn for the fantastic.The only reason I can think of for making Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle’s cures magical is that Betty MacDonald was afraid parents would actually prescribe her cures to their own children, so she made them magical so as to gainsay that.
I bet if I were a parent and my kid got to being irritating for no reason and was bothering me while I was trying to do something I’d definitely use this one.
The things you could do and hear with this potion.THE CRY BABY CURE- The downfall to this one is would you really want to be cleaning up all this water all over your house when the kid’s tears practicing flooded everything.
There was another story that caught my attention because the parent actually thinks the cure sounds dangerous.
I loved remembering all the stories and reading the rich descriptions (especially of what the kids ate!
Peanut butter and pickle sandwiches!!) I read this with my almost 6yo son; he liked some of the stories more than others.
He said his favorite was the "Show Off Cure" (I think mostly because it mirrored what he does, and he liked hearing about the crazy stunts the kid did).
As this book is pretty old, I silently marveled at all the achnronisms in the stories: all the moms stay home!
Kids left at home by themselves!
Like the other books in this charming series, Hello, Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle is a series of stories about a wonderful woman who cures common childhood ailments and bad behavior, sometimes through practical means, and sometimes through magic.
The parent (I was please to see that the fathers are more involved in this volume!) notices bad behavior or some issue with the child; in desperation, the parent contacts Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle for help, and she comes to the rescue with some miraculous, often humorous cure.In comparison to previous volumes in the series, the stories in this book are somewhat longer.
I love Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle!
I love reading about her cures for unruly, unhappy, and unfortunate children.
This is the fourth book in the series and I don't know if I've actually read this one before now.
I don't recall any of the stories.I do think the stories in the first books are slightly better than these ones.
Still, Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle at her worst is still worth the read!It's always fun to see the creativity for how Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle will solve the problem at hand.
The final story is, I think, my favourite in the book.
Again, more magic, less wise old woman features in this book. I particularly noticed how these stories spent page after page demonstrating the problem, with only a couple of pages left at the end to wrap everything up with a sprinkling of magic. In one story, Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle only appears off screen for less than one paragraph! It's not a wholly unenjoyable book, and if that seems like faint praise, it's because it is.
This, in writing, was better than Magic or Birthday, fitting with a fun cadence and not repeating other books. However, even moreso than Magic these 'cures' are pure magic - just sprinkle this, problem solved, and maybe after it wears off the child (or adult) will continue to not do the disliked habit. In other books there was a bit of how the cure worked, such as setting an example or showing the character how annoying/gross ee's fault was.
I read this to my sister, one chapter a day. I'm enjoying it, but I think if Mrs. Piggle -Wiggle DIDN'T use all these potions and powders and other kinda magical things, it could have been a whole lot better, believe me! I think the other Mrs. Piggle Wiggle books are better, where they use LESSONS instead of magic.
Father may have known best on television in the 1950s, but it’s Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle all of these mothers turned to way back when. She had a funny, magical cure for crybabies, gossips, bullies and other assorted childhood “ailments.”
Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle is back to using magic after trying farm-based, outdoorsy cures for a while. It's better than the third book, but not as memorable as the first two. The cures, being magic, aren't really clever either; just powder, candy, or a pill and then poof! The kid behaves.
The first Mrs. Piggle Wiggle Book was by far our favorite. This did not have the same magic as the first book.
My absolute FAVOURITE Mrs Piggle Wiggle book.
Delightful tales for all ages with straight forward cures for what ails us.
Man, are these chapters long.
I really liked the book Mrs. Piggle -Wiggle because it was really funny to me due to all the different sicknesses the children were having all the time. That is why I really liked this book.
Another good Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle book. I sure wish I had some of that slowpoke powder!
A bit of backstory to every character and the detail is well written for children.
You know what? I loved these books as a kid. Turns out they are kind of sexist.
One if my favorites as a kid, and I had a wonderful time reading it with Jaquelin 💗
Reread this to my nephews. Even though it's super old fashioned (every mother is a housewife and rarely leaves the kitchen) it is still entertaining enough for me and my 8 year old nephew.
