https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/805969.The_Collected_Stories_of_Jean_Stafford
Her prose is always intent on destroying feminine stereotypes, and her symbolism tries to abolish gender roles, but it is never done lazily or in an overtly obvious manner: it's with subtlety and intelligence and originality and imagination, and as a result, I'm sure I missed some of the finer points along the way, but I loved the book - and each individual story - anyway.
Her characters needn't be named because they aren't nearly as important as whatever "point" she's trying to make about what they're going through (typically about the pressures of being a woman in this time frame), and ultimately the stories are boring.
Jane Austin and Kate Chopin are two authors who also loved writing about the difficulties of being a woman in their time period.
I'm not a big fan of either of theirs, but I would never consider their stories to be boring, per se.
It feels like Stafford was less interested in creating stories to show us something than she was in just telling us what she wanted us to know.
Jean Stafford is a master at this - she can sketch a complete scene is just a few well-chosen words.
What an ending - it left me shaking my head both at the storyline and at Stafford's skill as a writer.
The Echo and The Nemesis was another story where the ending had an unexpected twist - again, just a few brief words but they left you shaken.
I think Stafford is one of the "must read" authors, especially for anyone who has to do much writing of their own (for any reason) - you can learn a lot about good, concise writing from her work.
Ka-pow! Nicely done, Mrs. Spencer. And I really liked it, too.
Writing short stories well is a rare and precious skill, and Stafford is one of the best. Ever.There's only one real dud in this volume, but the rest are so spectacularly good, you'll probably forgive it, as I did.Be careful not to read Stafford's stories while also reading a blowhardy, overwordy novel. You'll come to resent the novel's obese clumsiness, even if it's the best novel ever written in the history of the universe. That's how taut and sharp these stories are, like perfectly cut little diamonds.
Her stories remind me of a crisp autumn day, where everything is beautiful but twisted and cold and dying at the same time. It’s my favorite kind of weather. Most of all I love “Children Are Bored On Sunday," which makes me miss autumn in New York. The season, not the terrible, horrible, no-good, very bad movie.
Before I read this, I thought Jean Stafford just wrote stories about society parties where vapid people say horrendous things and a select few see through them and are branded as outsiders (and narrators). And those are her best stories. But she also wrote about kids growing up in the West and all sorts of social awkwardness found outside of society parties, too. A good 75% of these stories are best described as "painful," but they're pretty wonderful, too.
“Of course it could not have happened like this: falling in love is not an abrupt plunge; it is a gradual descent, seldom in a straight line, rather like the floating downward of a parachute.” (from "Caveat Emptor")Jean Stafford: A forgotten American treasure. These are charming stories, bursting with vitality. I wonder why she has more or less faded into oblivion; it is not fair.
This was a remarkable book of stories. Some better than others, all better than most stories you will ever read by other people. Her precise and exceptional vocabulary, her wicked humor, the way she could actually stab you in the heart with a throwaway line, all of this I will never forget. At a certain point, maybe halfway through the book, I pretty much wanted it to be the book I just keep reading for the rest of my life. I am so glad I read this book. I'm so sorry it's over.
This book won the Pulitzer Prize in 1970. The author, Jean Stafford, has put together a collection on 30 short stories. I enjoyed many stories but some were a bit difficult to follow. This book will also improve your vocabulary as it is laced with words not commonly used in other works of literature I have read. Keep your Webster's dictionary handy. I give this book 3 stars.
Updated review: 3/16/2008Well, I've read about 80% of these stories by now, and I think it's time to move on.
As the two paragraphs below suggest, I think the stories are well-written, but suffer from an almost clinical detachment on the author's part.
So, only three stars.Interim review:I've been dipping into this collection sporadically over the last month or so, and my reaction is ambivalent.
Maybe it has something to do with the author's detachment towards her characters.
If she liked them a little more, maybe I would like these stories a little better.
EVERYBODY SHOULD READ JEAN STAFFORD. She is amazing. This is hands down the best collection of short stories I've ever read! My new favorite book of 2008.
The Collected Stories of Jean Stafford by Jean StaffordFrom The Collected Stories of Jean Stafford, 
Jean Stafford writes about youth in such perfect and succinct ways throughout many of these stories.
There’s not an experimental story in the whole lot, and that means each one picks up in these kinds of intense ways, but there’s also not a lot of variation from this tone and style.
Jean Stafford is an interesting writer because she was super famous but didn’t write all that much…something like 3-4 novel and as many story collections.
I often liked, but was never thrilled while reading this, and in fact have been picking at it since February.
It was a bit like picking up The Lord of the Rings again after not having read it for 20 years...once it had been new and even exciting to me at 10 years old, but now I feel like I am reading an archaic form of english.So I am giving it 3 stars and an "I liked it" but it was not the best Pulitzer winner I have read so far and I doubt I will ever want to go back and read it again.
I also doubt I will purposely pick up anything else by Jean Stafford any time soon.

I just finished reading Katherine Anne Porters sensational short story collection and wanted to continue reading more of the same and Jean Stafford came through for me.
Her writing style is quite different from Porters but is still quite good.
Porter has a very unique style whereas Stafford has a more traditional style but is still very lyrical.
Porters writing tends to be a bit more as an observer to the story where Stafford tends to be more intimate like a participant.
The writing is fantastic in both books and I would highly recommend either book to anyone interested in short stories.
Some great short stories that are worth reading over and over.
I really enjoyed this collection of short stories. Jean Stafford's stories were a diverse group that surprised me. Something strange or terrible pops up in each one. I also was able to add lots of new words to my vocabulary.
Fascinating, if not always entertaining.
I jumped around this story collection, looking for well known ones and particular settings or characters. The tone of some stories remind me of Dorothy Parker, but with less dark humor and more introspective bleakness, heavier on the physical and emotional description. It's not the specifics of the where, when, and who of the stories that grab - it's the unsettling feelings, amorphous not quite depression, or pessimism, not quite happiness or loneliness - like that one moment when you suddenly don't want to be at a party, and there are hours before you can leave.
I couldn't help but hearken back to my creative writing classes in high school and college, when we were taught that a story has a beginning, a middle and an end—a conflict presented and resolved to the reader's satisfaction.
Many of these stories established fascinating characters, presented a conflict, and then stopped before the conflict could be addressed, much less resolved.
In fact, all of the stories that took place in Adams, Colorado were among the strongest in the collection.
Very easy to read, I found I enjoyed reading these stories though I can't honestly tell you why, or even describe a single character or event.
By no means a page turner, i didnt feel the need to find out what happened next because the plots were so mild that it lmost seemed that nothing happened.
Yet, it is so smoothly written that I didnt find it boring.
Not only was I generally uninterested in the characters, but I could not say what a single story was about after reading it.
I wouldn't say that the writing was boring, just not exceptionally interesting....or exceptionally anything.
And many of them are very successful at painting a particular setting...a place and time.I'll admit that Jean Stafford sure can write.
And she sure can pick $5.00 words to use in place of, you know, words that more than 1/100 of 1% of readers will understand.
But it's unnecessary, that's for sure.But to what end, I don't know.
And the writing is so cold and stilted that except when she really hooks into something it's just a challenge to get the fifteen pages to the end of each story.If this wasn't a Pulitzer-prize winner, I would not have finished it, but I've screwed myself, so...
This collection of stories is, by and large, not uplifting.
Lots of negative things happen to the heroine's of these books (who I'm sure are based on Ms. Stafford herself).
However reading about her tragic life (a roommate that committed suicide, 3 marriages, drug and alcohol addiction) put the writing in context.That being said she does a great job of a complete story in less than 20 pages (mostly) and I found most of them fast reads - although at times it seemed she was showing off with her vocabulary (wish I had read this on the Kindle with the built in dictionary).
I read Stafford's story, "Children Are Bored On Sunday" when it was featured by the New Yorker from the archive and completely fell in love with it.
The rest of the stories I read were fine but failed to move me in the same way.
It's still worth reading if only for this gem: "She wanted them to go together to some hopelessly disreputable bar and to console one another in the most maudlin fashion over a lengthy succession of powerful drinks of whiskey, to compare their illnesses, to marry their invalid souls for these few hours of painful communion, and to babble with rapture that they were at last, for a little while, they were no longer alone.
4.5 stars.
I had never heard of Jean Stafford until I read Dangerous Muse, about Caroline Blackwood.
Serendipitous!
These were sharp, cutting period pieces, where everyone is drinking orangeade and eating lettuce sandwiches, suffering from tuberculosis and catarrh.
If I had to compare them to something, it would be The Stories of John Cheever, which is high praise indeed.
I expected to like the New York stories the best, but I actually preferred the Western stories, full of people trying to make their escape from Adams, Colorado (usually in vain).
Full of disappointments and dashed fantasies, these are not for the lighthearted.
This book is long and dense, a slow read. The stories are purposeful and challenging. Not every short story is going to resonate with every reader, but there is a lot of good material here. In a sense the book is dated; the characters, their values, and their mannerisms all belong to a different era. In another sense the book is timeless as each story illuminated some relatable aspect of humanity. There was one story, ‘The Captain’s Gift’ that was just plain offensive, and I’d skip.
Stafford quickly endeared me to her style, despite a few fairly overused phrases that she favored. There were of course a few stand outs, and a few that I practically skimmed; but over all Stafford touches on loneliness and isolation, while keeping broad in terms of environments. The American-ness of this collection (ah, the Pulitzers) reminded me somewhat of Fitzgerald, in it's celebration of differences (even when it seemed that Stafford wasn't comfortable in these abnormalities and eccentricities).This will be the last book of '09 that I read... tra-la-la.
She is one of the finest short story writers ever. It's difficult to fathom that I've never heard of her before (it was Saul Bellow's letters that introduced me to her--beleaguered wife of Robert Lowell). This probably should be a 5 star book but there were enough stories that while beautifully written I still couldn't connect with....something a little magic realist about some of them (which I just don't like). My favorites were the ones written from the point of view of a child. She can be hilarious. And she can be equally dark and wildly cynical. A winning combo-platter.
