https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41070.The_Shockwave_Rider
TSR is not a plot book, and it is also not a character book, but it IS an idea book. Brunner was ahead of the curve (or the shockwave) on so many things, and managed to write about the modern Internet in 1975, anticipating terms like 'bandwidth' and 'computer worm'. This is great social SF.
This book starts out a little rocky and disjointed (possibly an intentional style by the author to match with the subject material), then pulls together and ultimately soars by the last third.
Written in 1975, much of the technology forecast in this book is amazingly prescient, especially that relating to the Internet ("datanet").
I'm not usually a fan of the elliptical writing and shallow characterization typical of older sci-fi, and I'm not a huge fan of puns (wordplay is used liberally throughout as paragraph/scene titles), *but* I still enjoyed this book and wish I could give it 4.5 stars, mainly due to the denouement and interesting ideas about society in terms of how individuals contribute and what is "fair".
Three and a half stars, rounded up. This is an unusual book, one without a plot exactly, and which ends with a question for the reader rather than an actual conclusion. But considering that it was published in 1975, it felt less outdated in its prediction of a wired future than one would have thought when I read it in 2004 or thereabouts.
Some interesting moments with an ending somewhat echoing Bester’s Tiger!
(Fine, Stars my Destination, blah!) Interesting book (especially the thoughts on identity which seem very prophetic for the identity theft age) some elements seem to have been better handled by Gibson and Iain M.
Banks(information refuges etc.)This along with Stand on Zanzibar, Jagged Little Orbit, and The Sheep Look Up aren't a tightly constructed quartet detailing a intricate future history, but different visions and warnings mutated by the different permutations Brunner throws at them but a similiar feel.
These are 3-dimensional, lived in futures that hold up remarkably well in thhis day and age.
I think the futuristic lingo is a little over done - makes it a bit more difficult to read than it has to be - he is painting a very scary look at a future that is now here in very many ways. This is pretty remarkable when the main thrust is a computerized society that was only beginning in 1975 & the Internet was a twinkling in ARPANet's juvenile eye. Well worth reading.
Eventually devolves into a 70s aging hippie luddite critique of of technological advancement, completely failing to foresee the individual, antitotalitarian empowerment the information revolution brought about.
I may have a hippie heart, but my more rational brain found the ending kind of amusingly wrong-headed, as the hero uses the very information snooping tactics he accuses his opponents of misusing to bring down the evil military-industrial-CIA-whatever.
Yet I absolutely loved lots of the prescient philosophical arguments about information and predictions (such as services such as InTrade that uses multiple sampling to predict future convergences, of successfully.
1975 yılında yazılmış olan Şok Dalgası Süvarisi, yazıldığı döneme göre çok orijinal bir konuya sahip ve yazarın uzağı çok iyi öngördüğünü göstermekte.Gelecekte devletler güvenliklerini ve üstünlüklerini sağlamak için genetik mühendislikten ve bilgisayarlardan yararlanarak yeni bir toplum düzeni yaratmak istiyorlar. Tüm insanlar tek bir veri ağına bağlanmış durumda, gelecek veya herhangi bir konu ile ilgili tahminler yapılırken tüm insanlardan alınan veriler ile gerçek değerlere ulaşılmaya çalışılmakta.Bu dünyada bu sisteme karşı olan bir adam, sistemin açıklarını kullanarak sisteme karşı savaş açıyor. Süreç içinde birçok sanal kimlik kullanan karakterimizi okurken kitabı bırakmak istemiyorsunuz.
At the time (1975), not only was ARPANet, the internet's predecessor very limited, the first actual network worm wouldn't be launched for another 13 years (Brunner originated the term in this novel).Brunner also creates a stunning dystopian society, where the US government/major corporations (hand in hand) manipulate what could in principle be an exercise in effective distributed democracy - the public Delphi boards used to suggest solutions to problems and predict outcomes - to keep the population in check.There's far more to it than this, and though the ending wraps things up a little too neatly (I'm afraid the bad guys would almost certainly have won), this remains a brilliant net-based SF novel.Even better it comes here with two other Brunner novels as a bonus (I read this in a SF Gateway collection I couldn't find here).
Mi pequeña cabecita alcanza a formular reflexiones pero no le da para desarrollarlas del todo; leyendo este libro me ha dado por preguntarme cómo es posible que alguien en los 70 fuera capaz de percibir la trampa y las falsas religiones que surgirían a partir del desarrollo de los ordenadores, pero no fuera más allá de imaginar un aparato que sería aún más engañoso: el smartphone.
Por el tinte del libro, en este caso me atrevo a aventurar que al escritor en realidad el cómo se la suda, y sólo le interesa describir los efectos sociológicos.
The Shockwave Rider is a book before its time, published in 1975, the book provides a vision for the future of computer networks today.
The term 'Web' was used in this book years before the Web as we know it emerged.
In other words: there are those around one who know things they shouldn't, are improperly profiting from it, and one can't do anything about it.
The protagonist is a government-trained programmer who becomes hacker extraordinaire.A far-reaching vision.
The book is worth reading to see how true it has become in certain senses.
Predicting the future is a hit or miss proposition.
-Muy visionaria en su momento.-Género.
Ciencia-Ficción.Lo que nos cuenta.
En el siglo XXI, un hombre que en este momento se llama Arthur Edward Lazarus y es ministro propietario de la Iglesia del Infinito Discernimiento, pero que ha sido antes muchas otras versiones de sí mismo con ocupaciones muy diferentes, está internado de nuevo en Tarnover, institución perteneciente a un programa gubernamental estadounidense de localización y adoctrinamiento de individuos especialmente dotados que resultan de interés para los dirigentes de los USA, un país con más de trescientos millones de habitantes que están conectados a una red integrada de datos y cuyos líderes no dudan en usar cualquier método para favorecer sus planes, normalmente de carácter ilegal en muchos sentidos.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
When you consider that this book was written in 1974 (or before) it is remarkably prescient in subject and anticipation of the internet and the concept of computers being omnipresence in our current lives. The sub story is interesting but not as interesting as Mr Brunner's ability to conceptualize our current lives. I really enjoyed this book and have read many of his other novels which I also enjoyed.
I could really get into the (pre) cyberpunk aspects of this, yet the plot and character development are not strong points. I'm giving this 3 stars because of the issues it foreshadowed back in the hey day of 1975 that are super relevant today, all implications of humanity barreling into the information age. These include the struggle for personal privacy, cyber warfare & hacking, the widening disparity between the haves and the have-nots, and the blowback and damage to society from the ever accelerating rate of change wrought by technology. Future Shock indeed.
It totes has a plot, it just kinda fizzles out in the end. I wouldn't recommend it and it is especially slow in the beginning.
Loads of speechy dialogue overwhelm the genuinely innovative proto-cyberpunk ideas. Reminded me of Gilliam's movie Brazil.
A great book about hacking, megacorps, evil government, and revolution through information... from 1975. It will sound terribly dated and so suprisingly damn relevant - trust me.
They travel there, but Nickie can only keep running for so long.Positives+Novel ideas the time of publishing Negatives+Confusing beginning+Light on character development+Bland story+Weird mother/daughter relationship+Lots of tell not showThe weakness of The Shockwave Rider is that is so focused on the ideas, rather than an engaging plot.
Much of the time characters are discussing things that have happened instead of actually doing them.
The book was conceptualizing the internet before most people had any exposure to it, and potential issues from it.
I found it weird Nickie sleeps with this one woman, and then later he dates her daughter.
The Shockwave Rider is the final installment in John Brunner's Club of Rome Quartet, and in many ways the most prescient of the lot.
Previously, Stand on Zanzibar drew from Paul Ehrlich to deal with over-population, The Sheep Look Up  covered Rachel Carson's Silent Spring and ecological breakdown, and (less successfully) The Jagged Orbit covered racial tensions and the medicalisation of everyday life by 'Big Pharma.'  The Shockwave Rider imagines a future that must have seemed a little...
Finally, and I think most-interestingly, Brunner makes a big deal about 'the new conformism' caused by the plug-in lifestyle.
Fun and frolicsome cyberpunk with an optimistic edge. Solidly written, with characters that grow on you even if they aren't immediately engaging. The Shockwave rider was thought provoking, currently terrifyingly relevant, and with a page count that doesn't outlive the narrative. Good stuff.
Just trash, ain't it
I think I just don't like "philosophical novels."People laud "The Shockwave Rider" for predicting stuff like the Internet.
Brunner's continental network is more like Ma Bell than the World Wide Web. Nothing really caught me as a gee-whiz prediction.The ethos of the story, on the other hand, is like a hippie version of Atlas Shrugged.
Stylistically, it's fine; except that Brunner has a thing for punny section headings that are sometimes plot relevant and sometimes not; in the end it seems too cute.Maybe 2 stars is too generous, but it's certainly better written than, say, "The Transhumanist Wager" (which has many similar story beats, just a slightly different political outlook) and that would be very bad company to keep.I have a couple more Brunner books on my shelf, but now I will tread wearily.
Obviously it’s hard to read this without comparing Brunner’s future vision with the internet as we know it today, but much of it is strikingly prophetic in terms of computer networks that provide an overload of mindless (and sometimes cruel) entertainment, gather information on people (personal details, bank info, medical records, work history, etc) and become so central to daily life as to make you vulnerable to attack (such as someone deciding to get petty revenge on you by going online and deleting your utility accounts, for example).
El jinete de la onda del shock no cae del todo en esos clichés porque es un poco más antiguo, porque en cierto modo es PRECURSOR de toda esa movida, pero eso no quita que aquí de vez en cuando aparezcan gusanos con cabezas de noséqué (virus informáticos) y códigos con letras y números difícilmente memorizables.
Y, además, es bastante impresionante que esta obra se escribiera en los 70.
Anticipa muchas cosas similares a internet (aquí es la "datarred"), aunque tiene ciertas anacronías inevitables cuando se lee ciencia-ficción antigua.
Un libro que gustará a los fans de la ciencia-ficción y de las revoluciones.
Re-read on 2016-07-10.For a book written 40+ years ago (1975), this holds up surprisingly well.
It was written when the Internet was still just a research project, but envisions it pretty well as we know it - its role in our lives, if not the technical details.
It feels a little dated, maybe more like mid-90s Cyberpunk, but that still puts it 20 years ahead of its time.Overall, it's still relevant because it's about people trying to adapt to ever-accelerating change, both technical and social.
Probably all issues of its day, but maybe more so now.
Could never finish it!
The book written in 1975 uses technological terms (IE: bandwidth) with a foresight unlike any before it. It's a up dated version of other "Big Brother" type stories but very readable.
I fought my way through half of it but that was enough. The 70's were a weird time and their sci-fi reflects that
All'interno di questa cornica, Brunner colloca una nazione divisa tra un governo corrotto (le cui mire sono poco più che uno sfondo dell'azione), una serie di comunità utopistiche sorte dopo il terremoto della Baia in cui si pratica l'astinenza tecnologica retribuita (il governo ti dà dei soldi se rinunci ad avere tutti i gadget tecnologici di ultimo grido), alcuni centri di formazione di talenti che oggi definiremmo transumanistici, intenzionati a trasformare l'agire umano basandolo esclusivamente su un modello razionale quasi computerizzato, e orde tribali di criminali vagamente post-punk alla Mad Max. Il tutto collegato da una rete informativa di dati che, tramite terminali personali e videofoni, mette in grado ogni singolo individuo di essere connesso a tutti gli altri, almeno virtualmente; prefigurando così l'Internet diciamo di metà anni '90.
Men sällan har det nog varit så träffande som när man talar om Cyberpunk och de som lade grunderna för den.
Liksom "Stand..." är den (ibland) uppbyggd av fragmentariska småkapitel och har inte egentligen ett riktigt slutklimax, den avslutas bara.
Men Brunner får sin poäng igenom och det känns inte som om man snuvats på någon konfekt av något slag, så att säga.
Det är, liksom i "Stand...", tematiken som lyser absolut starkast och han gör ett oerhört bra jobb med att få fram den.
Men trots allt ett nyckelverk som läsas, speciellt om man är intresserad av cyberpunk.
This book appeared as a reference in the Cyberpunk 2020 RPG.
Me of little faith!The Shockwave Rider is an intermediate step between the very classic dystopian novels (Brave New World, 1984, Fahrenheit 451), the Golden Age Asimov and Clark, and the later cyberpunk.
Strange at times, visionary at others, the book is a great read.
There is not a lot into character development or world building, and yet it is full of wonderful quotable sections.
I particularly enjoyed the "AN ALARMING...TO FIND ON..." sections, sort of doxing or Wikileaks I suppose.​
