https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/184594.The_Incredulity_of_Father_Brown
This collection contains eight short Father Brown mysteries.
Father Brown is as timid as they make them: from his description he looks even less prone to violence than a typical old maiden Miss Marple.
The resolution of the paradoxes are at times trivial (once they are explained), sometimes implausible, and sometimes why-the-hell-have-not-I-think-about-it type.
As an atheist the appropriate modern reaction would be to shout to the whole world (which really does not care) that I am offended and rate this book with 1 star.
I love Father Brown stories so muuuch! I remember reading all of the books in 2016 in one go (the short stories of course) and it was so exciting and clever; I was thinking about them for ages afterwards!
Just before it reached the bushes, the air seemed to grow colder and colder, as if he were approaching an icehouse or the North Pole.By the time he solves the mystery, which he does, as is usual with him, with his lightning intuition, the priest wends his way back down the hill -- but the ominous quality is all gone, because the moral Gordian knot has been cut by the Father Brown's intellect:When the priest went forth again and set his face homeward, the cold had grown more intense and yet was somehow intoxicating.
For whatever reason I didn’t get along that well with the previous collection featuring Mr Chesterton’s ecclesiastical detective – ‘The Wisdom of Father Brown’.
Here, as an example, is the opening sentence of the second story in this collection, 'The Arrow of Heaven': "It is to be feared that about a hundred detective stories have begun with the discovery that an American millionaire has been murdered; an event which is, for some reason, treated as a sort of calamity." A line I liked so much that I quoted it on this site about fifteen minutes after I read it.It’s a volume to dip into rather than take on a long train journey.
Starts exciting with Father Brown in a tropical village, recovering from his own "murder", then degenerates into quasi-philosphical maunderings.
Como llevaba ya algún tiempo queriendo leer algo de Chesterton y su sensacional Padre Brown, una sonrisa de triunfo se dibujó en mi cara al verlo en una de las estanterías —entendedlo, es un libro relativamente pequeño y estaba en una sección equivocada, por lo que fue toda una casualidad (y encima, a un precio casi regalado)—.
La caracterización también fue algo que me conquistó.
El énfasis en los rasgos más característicos de las víctimas o los sospechosos, hacía muy fácil no perderse cuando llegaba algún torrente de nombres.Espero poder leer más aventuras del sacerdote, sobre todo en inglés.
In ‘The Oracle of the Dog’, a murder is seemingly foreseen by a dog with psychic powers, but Brown shows that the dog’s behaviour was motivated by less lofty and more dog-like motives instead.‘The Miracle of Moon Crescent’ proves to be no such thing.
Actually many atheists including myself would share Father Brown’s scepticism about ghosts, curses, miracles and so on, and a number of religious people would be just as likely to accept those silly ideas as non-believers.If Chesterton wishes to tilt at the windmills of atheism, it would help if he played fair, and did not attribute bad qualities that are neither universal to all atheists nor exclusive to unbelievers.
The story has a well-told murder mystery, though I don't know why Father Brown put off the solution.There's not really a story I didn't like in the collection, although I do think, "Oracle of the Dog" may have a little too much literary criticism and not enough story.
Good stuff. I don't really subscribe to Chesterton's theology or politics, but I do adore his ethics and style: he wants a more sacred and kind world, in which people behave with kindness to each other. But the primary appeal of the Father Brown stories is always Father Brown himself, more Columbo than Holmes, more sensible than sensational; and the settings of the stories, which place this seemingly ordinary little cleric in fanciful and ridiculous murder scenes, like placing a ball bearing in a jeweled setting.
This collection of crime short stories makes for a fascinating read. Father Brown is an unusual but great choice for a detective.All the stories carry a supernatural element and Father Brown dislodges superstitious beliefs and solves crimes. My only grudge with Father Brown is that he never saves the victim who comes to him for help but it's always a post murder whodunnit.Forewarning, Chesterton's writing is laborious. It is difficult to read more than a story in one sitting.
Mysteries that confound the police, the doctors, and eyewitnesses, are no more than a matter of observation, intuition, and experience to Father Brown. He's gone where most haven't gone and seen what most haven't seen: the insides of men's souls. He uses these powers of his, for so shall we call them, in pursuit of righteousness and justice. Where others question, Father Brown provides answers, based on what he knows of men, and of what depths they can sink to in the rejection of their Creator.
Chesterton's language is beautiful. Father Brown has a keen mind and eyes with which to see.I'd warn that there is racism in the stories and that some solutions left me hanging. But the puzzles are very clever.
It comes from putting together two different Father Brown lines from two different stories.In The Oracle of the Dog, Father Brown says, “It’s the first effect of not believing in God that you lose your common sense and can’t see things as they are.” In the very next story, The Miracle of Moon Crescent, he tells the skeptics-turned-dupes, “You were all balanced on the very edge of belief – of belief in almost anything.” (And to give credit where credit is due, it was a couple of amateur detectives, Robin Rader and Pasquale Accardo, who solved this mystery.) (And one more parenthetical remark: these two stories, especially The Oracle of the Dog, are considered by many critics and anthologizers, to be among the very best Father Brown mysteries.)Father Brown travels to America in these stories, no doubt because Chesterton traveled there himself a few years before they were written.
“If I want any miracles,” says Father Brown, “I know where to get them.” It is natural to believe in the supernatural, he explains.
after lots of contemporary fiction and mystery, I had to use my brain differently to be able to read and enjoy this book. Once I got used to the rhythm of the storytelling (and the fact that it was completely different from the television series), I enjoyed reading each of the short stories.
I will never look at a coat rack the same way ever again. More great Chesterton cleverness.
Another fun set of stories from Chesterton. Fr Brown is a simple and humble little priest who is barely noticed. But he's the one who is sane. Wonderful writing from a master.
in each one, we encounter a scooby-doo like event, where many people are duped into believing that supernatural forces are at work.
father brown is like chesterton in that he is logical and quick witted.
it is a standard trope in the stories to have everyone expecting the priest to swallow all supernatural explanations because he's into spiritual things.
father brown absolutely believes in ghosts, but that's very different from believing in a particular ghost.
he absolutely believes in the devil, but that's a far cry from believing in the devil actually manifesting itself.i love chesterton's nonfiction attacks on his contemporaries and on the world in general.
This is one of those cases where I am REALLY REALLY "off" from the vast majority of readers.This is a collection of eight short stories, or cases, each one a separate bizarre mystery that is "solved" because (in all cases) Father Brown does not accept the generally accepted theory, or framework, of the case.
But I thought that essentially there's only one story here with eight minor variations.
Los primeros cuentos que leo escritos por el famoso G.K. Chesterton. Y me gustaron. Es precisamente porque sé un poco sobre mística que los mistagogos no pueden engañarme. Claro, como el personaje es el padre Brown, la fórmula del cuento de investigador privado es la misma, y aún así te logra sorprender en cada texto. Puesto que todavía queda mucho de ese gran Jefferson y esa cosa que los hombres llaman democracia, en este país, aunque los ricos gobiernan como tiranos, los pobres no hablan como
Los primeros cuentos que leo escritos por el famoso G.K. Chesterton.
Es precisamente porque sé un poco sobre mística que los mistagogos no pueden engañarme.
Puesto que todavía queda mucho de ese gran Jefferson y esa cosa que los hombres llaman democracia, en este país, aunque los ricos gobiernan como tiranos, los pobres no hablan como esclavos; y hay sinceridad entre opresor y el oprimido.
Siempre que me acerco a los libros de detectives, me digo que desperdicio mucho tiempo leyendo cosas "serías" sabiendo que lo que me gusta es la novela negra.
Chesterton, Peder Brown öykülerinde, normalde polisiye hikayelerde alışık olduğumuzdan farklı bir yol izlemiş. Önce şaşırtıcı olay, ilk açıklamalarıyla birlikte herkesin gözü önünde gerçekleşiyor. Peder Brown, ortaya çıkan ilk hikayeye şüpheyle yaklaşıyor, gerçekçi ve mantıklı nedenleri ortaya çıkarıp olayı çözüme kavuşturuyor. Hikayelerin sonunda bir yargılama yok, suçluların cezalandırılması anlatılmıyor. Aslında polisiye yerine dedektif öyküleri demek daha doğru belki de. Herşey tadında bırakılmış. Saçmalıkların algıyı nasıl bozduğunu, irrasyonelin sıkıcı rasyonelden daha çekici ve hipnotize edici olduğunu, insanın nedensellik oluşturma sürecindeki eksikliklerini bilen ve kendisini bu bozuklukların neden olduğu yanlışlıkları düzeltmeye adamış gösterişsiz bir düşünür-dedektif Peder Brown...
Yes, I keep reading the Father Brown stories even though I do not rate them very highly.
Two stars in the Goodreads system is "It was okay," and apparently it's okay enough to keep reading.
I like Chesterton's way with words, but his plots have become quite repetitive, and often do not come to any satisfactory conclusion (murderers do not get arrested), and there is no saving tongue-in-cheek sense of humor as can be found in other mystery writing.
Should let readers know that the stories are nothing like the TV series, and that Chesterton is no Rex Stout.
Although I still liked this third collection of short stories, it wasn't as satisfying or enjoyable as the previous two.
In these, Father Brown finds himself the object of some fame despite his deep preference for anonymity and humility, and has to deal with that.The stories are longer, by several times in some cases, than the previous books, but rarely does the mystery require this length.
Instead, ideas are developed at greater length.
For example in the story "The Miracle of Moon Crescent" Chesterton explores his idea that a man who rejects God does not thus reject religion, but instead tries to find it elsewhere.Each of these stories works very well and is interesting reading, but I found the shorter format and stories more enjoyable.
I think I prefer the tv-series. I thought it was one novel, but it consists of several short stories and I had trouble following his logic and reasoning sometimes. Okay, most of the time. Some stories were really good, some were confusing, but in general it was an okay read.Cover - 3Plot - 3Hero- 3Avoiding cliche - 4Fluency - 3Ending - 3-------------Overall -3.167
An enjoyable set of short stories in the detective mode, but with the twist that the detective is an unassuming Roman Catholic priest. Read carefully and pay attention to detail. The solutions are there, but the reader, like the characters other than Father Brown, are likely to miss them. My favorite story of the group is "The Oracle of the Dog."
Great summer fun read. The difficulty in reading books written in 1910 is dealing with the bigotry of the day so you spend some time cringing from the terminology and biases. The good part is that in this day and age we are cringing.
Easy to read with some clever and very humane passages, but not immensely noteworthy or memorable.
A bit repetitive, but a fun read.
Quite dated & not very well written. While I’m not a big fan of short stories, short mysteries are better, but I didn’t find the characters very well written or believable.
A very amusing, light, interesting read. Father Brown is a great, Miss Marple-like character. I just wish there was a full novel about him, since I feel the short stories didn't do him justice.I will definitely start reading another one soon.
(The book was published in 1926.) As I mentioned in my reviews of previous Father Brown books, I think their idea of "short" stories back then was a little different from mine today, since this group seemed to average about 50 screen pages each (which is actually a fair amount longer than in the earlier collections).
It almost seemed as if the publisher told the author "Make 'em longer!", so he did, but by adding maybe five pages of enhanced story and fifteen pages of filler.
Thus, I didn't enjoy this collection as much as the earlier ones.
