https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/452657.Paul_Revere_and_the_World_He_Lived_In
Esther Forbes brings the past to vibrant life-- I loved her descriptions of, for example, the smells of Boston in the 1770s, and the surprising cultural changes that occurred after the Revolutionary War (for the first time in history, young women began to be chaperoned!).
She sets straight all the myths about Paul Revere's legendary ride of April 18, 1775, that were perpetuated for centuries in Longfellow's poem.
Paul Revere had started on a ride which, in a way, has never ended."And I used to think history was boring!
He actually served as an officer in the Navy in Massachusetts and after the war began to develop a much needed heavy industry in New England by starting first an iron foundry and eventually casting the majority of bells used in the early days of the country.
The same can be said of the Revere Copper industries which also still exist today.
More than just a history, this is a slice of life as it was experienced by a city central to the events and its inhabitants as they go about their everyday affairs.
I like hearing specific things about the city I lived in for 10 years like "the British set sail from the corner of Boylston and Charles Streets" which of course was then under water before the landfill projects that changed the entire physicality of the city.
And it's even more fun to decipher the maps within the front and back covers (difficult, because someone who owned my copy before the junk store I bought it from put their "Ex Libris" sticker right over Somerville, grr...) and see how the city has changed even more since the book was written in 1942.She's also great at what I like to call the "If Only Quotient".
Many primary sources were used and the author was honest if they weren't.I must admit to finding it somewhat tedious only because I felt the need to further research people, phrases, items, traditions, etc...that I had not heard of before or didn't know much about.Did you know that Paul Revere only made it as far as Lexington and never arrived in Concord?
Did you know that he paid for the care/treatment of his former son-in-law who was mentally ill (his own family wouldn't) and raised his three children (his daughter had died)?I found Mr. Revere to be an extremely intelligent, hard-working, industrious, creative, warm, loving, family-oriented, patriot.
Esther Forbes wrote the novel "Johnny Tremaine" which used to be practically required reading in New England for decades, and was turned into a truly crap movie by Disney in the early 60s. She also wrote this Pulitzer-prize-winning history of the colonial and Revolutionary era, focusing on Paul Revere as her main subject but reaching into the back stories and biographies of many other players. A delight to read, it will not fail to stir patriotism in even the most jaded hearts.
A wonderful perspective of telling the story of the American Revolution and Boston and a man who was bigger than a ride into history. Esther Forbes weaves the contributions of a silversmith on the founding of the U.S. and then how he continued to make contributions to his country and to Boston. She has researched and written a wonderful book.
It avoids the trap of some biographies to fall into a dry recitation of facts, and instead managers to bring the 18th century to life.
Author Esther Forbes deftly weaves proven facts about Revere with what is known about life in Boston at that time period.
Daily life in Boston is recounted, including what would have been seen in local shops, what Revere's father's shop would have been like, probably relationships between residents, etc.
So much more than a history book, this one reads more like a historical novel; bonus points that it's all true!
In one word, charming.
Published in 1942 in the midst of a war that keeps creeping in around the edges, this book is in some ways sweetly vintage and genteel, and yet, it is still a remarkable work of scholarship.
The title is no exaggeration: this really is an exploration of Paul Revere's whole life, with full context and background.
Forbes drew on many contemporary primary sources to people the book with Revere's friends, family, and neighbors; with the local characters and notable events.
The style might throw some off; it has more the tone of a storybook than a serious biography, but those who would dismiss it for such are missing a treat.
This book isn't for everyone. Written by the author of my much-loved Johnny Tremain in 1942 (and winning a Pulitzer the same year), the vintage writing may turn some people off. I, however, adored every word. I could see, hear, and smell Boston. I got to know many familiar names beyond just Paul Revere. This is a rare book that will stay in my personal library.
Published in 1942, I imagine there were thousands of soldiers, sailors, marines and army air force personnel, serving in WWII, turning the pages of this exceptional book during their down time.Ester Forbes made a monumental effort with her research and for very good reason was awarded with the Pulitzer. This is a book I'll be recommending and passing along for years to come.
Her fiction is much better. Informative, but too much "he might have" or "he could have" for my taste. I would prefer the speculations to remain in fiction. But a good view of Boston before, during, and after the Revolution. She paints Revere as a true hero, but more importantly a good and honest and hard-working man.
There seems to be no doubt as to the immense amount of research Ms Forbes assimilated for this endeavor but some of the minutiae could have been omitted. I would have enjoyed a few more descriptions of the dress, furniture, and modes of entertainments but this is after all the story of Paul Revere and not a history of the time. All in all, well worth the hours spent reading and learning.
History. Interesting that Boston was originally about a third or a quarter of the size it is now, and it was on a tiny peninsula. Beacon Hill cut down to build up land.
I rarely give 5 stars! Well written. Beautiful use of language.
The book starts off with a little bit about Paul Revere's father, Apollos, who was sent to America from France at the age of 13 in 1715 and ends with Revere's death in 1818.
That gave me quite a thrill after being so immersed in his life for the last few weeks.Revere was a very enterprising man and he undertook to learn several trades that few, if any, people in America knew how to do at the time.
Revere had 8 children by his first wife and 8 more by his second wife.
"Her vocabulary was limited ('respectable' being her favorite adjective, with 'very pleasant' for alternative)...As she writes of the people who lived about North Square in Revere's time, they seem somehow to diminish in stature.
At Hannah's command little men pop out of little houses, hardly real people with real houses - and it is all so 'very pleasant' and everyone so 'respectable'..."It is a book that should only be read by folk who have a good working knowledge of the Revolution, though.
This book was not only about Paul Revere, but about the people who lived in Boston in the 1700's and the times in which they lived.
The engraved copper plates that Paul Revere made showed the events of the times, the Boston Massacre, the Boston Tea Party, and the Battle of Lexington.
“Paul Revere and the World He Lived In” by Esther Forbes was delightful and informative reading.
I liked the book, especially the treatment of “…the World He Lived In.” This tale puts you in the heart of Boston feeling the citizens’ slow-growing rancor with Britain…flashed by taxation.
The Boston Massacre, the Boston Tea Party, Retribution for the Tea Party, Lexington and Concord, the Continental Congress, all the way through the War of 1812…this narrative is really a tale of revolutionary era Boston with Paul Revere as the author’s access point…because he was born before it, participated in it, and lived through it (1735 – 1818).
Good reading that gets a bit slow in parts, but informative throughout.
Paul Revere and the World he Lived in is exactly what the title implies.
It is not quite a biography, although it does follow Paul from birth to death.
It is not quite a history, though it does describe the era along with its famous inhabitants, its lifestyles, its politics.
This is an accessible book, easy to read, easy to understand, full of well-drawn, interesting personages, set in a fascinating era.
Paul Revere was an artisan, not an intellectual, and didn’t leave behind voluminous diaries or memoirs.
When she must resort to speculation, she admits it freely, explaining her reasoning.This is a well-rounded and enjoyable history book.
To all of you who rated this book highly, I apologize for my disagreement.
I suppose it just wasn't my type of read.
I took the challenge because a friend of mine thought it was a great book.
My problem is that I'm simply not interested in American Revolutionary history...
nor Civil War history.
And, for me, this book was written in an extremely uninteresting fashion.
It reminded me, each time I picked it up, of reading a recipe book.
I think it was because I knew I was finally at the end of the book.
This was a long read for me, but I'm so glad that I stuck with it.
I haven't known much about Paul Revere except what he was famous for, his midnight ride.
What an amazing man!
I am humbled by his amazing abilities which he used to serve his country, neighbors and family.
I also marvel and am inspired by his integrity, generosity, resourcefulness and humility.
I highly recommend this book.The writing is more wordy than I'd want in parts that I didn't think added much.
But overall, the author did a great job of setting the scene of Paul Revere's Boston and the historical context.
This is one of THE best biographies around. Paul Revere comes across as a good citizen and a pretty mensch-y guy-- someone you're glad to know about. In addition, Ms. Forbes is extremely knowledgeable about 18th-century life, and treats you to Bostonian gossip of the era, and some fascinating details about food, work, clothing, etc. The chapter that tells about dentistry and false teeth is enough to make you glad you're alive... NOW.But seriously, this book was so engrossing that it started me on a serious trek through other Revolutionary-era bios.
I really enjoyed this biography. It gives a colorful picture of life in Boston before and after the Boston Tea Party and the first battles of the American Revolution. From letters, newspaper articles, and writings of other historians, Forbes draws an interesting picture of Paul Revere, his family life, his role in the revolution, and his life afterward. It was fun to read about certain people, their portraits, and engravings that depicted the events, and then look them up on the internet.
This book won the Pulitzer prize in 1942. I found out there was SO MUCH more to Paul Revere than just the midnight ride - he was the leader of many groups, had 16 children and lived to be 83 years old.I found the stories of his family and culture of the times so interesting, but some of the battle descriptions were tedious.
It took me months to get through this book, but by this time, Paul Revere was starting to feel like an old friend and I was disappointed to finish (he died!) I knew almost nothing about this man save his immortal, historic ride, but Forbes' carefully researched book brought him to life. A generous, hard-working, loyal man's man, yet still a family man, Revere is a patriot we can be proud of.
Wow that took a long time to read!! The reason I gave this book 3 stars is because of it's difficulty to read at times. It didn't flow very well and I found myself re-reading sentences CONSTANTLY. BUT, the book was VERY informative and really represented Paul Revere as a kind and generous man. He really helped out people and lived a good life. Definitley an informative read.
I often commented that Paul Revere was one of those characters who seemed to have done everything but who I knew little about so for Christmas a couple of years ago my girlfriends mother bought me this book. It goes beyond just telling the life story of Paul Revere and getrs into what Boston was like at the time.
Although long, this was such a good read. I learned a ton about American history, Paul Revere and the American Revolution. She also does a great job making it more than history so that you get an idea of what John Hancock and Revere were really like as people and a great idea of the city of Boston during his time. Loved it!
A well-rounded look at a man who most of us just know as the guy who rode a horse at night. I enjoyed learning about his family background, as well as the culture of 18th century Massachusetts. I know it's cheesy, but now when I go to look at his portrait at the Museum of Fine Arts (Boston), I feel like I'm looking at a friend. I always feel that way after reading a good biography. :-)
Excellent, Esther Forbes was a gifted writer on historical themes, whether fiction or non-fiction. Her book withstands the test of time. I believe she won the National Book Award for this book in 1939 o4 1940
