https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/920607.The_Arrival
Lovely and amazing. Re-read this In May 2016 with my little son. My thoughts? If I could buy everyone in America a copy of this book, I would.
The story was poignant and I loved how realistically it portrayed immigrants and how metaphorically and fantastically the author drew the world-building and settings.It didn’t actually speak to me to an obvious point, as I maybe predicted, since, even though I am an emigrant too (Romania -> Canada), I was very young at that time and we had someone to help us, unlike the main character who had to find help and shelter by himself.
To see this and other wordless picture book reviews, please visit www.readrantrockandroll.comThe Arrival  by Shaun Tan is a graphic novel and wordless story of illustrations highlighting an immigrant man's journey told through an imaginary world.I picked this up for my students a few years ago after hearing a special on NPR about it.
We enjoyed following along in the story as the illustrations send powerful messages and emotions.
This is a great eye-opening and thought-provoking story that will help children and adults think about immigration including the fears and difficulties that come along with being alone in a strange place.
This book is magnificent!A wordless graphic novel that the tells the familiar tale of an immigrant, and somehow makes the story new and exciting.A man says goodbye to his wife and daughter, and sets out, taking only a suitcase containing a precious photograph of his family.
The ship enters the harbor and a strange new world is revealed.
The monochromatic drawings are beautifully rendered in a style similar to Chris Van Allsburg, though I was reminded just a bit of M.C. Escher as well.Adults will appreciate the simple story of a stranger in a foreign land, while children will be enraptured by the amazing drawings of fantastical creatures that populate this magical world.This is just a wonderful book to be looked at again and again, and a powerful reminder that we are all immigrants here.
The concerns expressed by residents (and not just here in the U.S., of course) include such sentiments as "what does this have to do with us?" and "it's not my problem." Of course there is also a lot of generous sentiment for helping out people in need, as is also demonstrated across the world and will have to continue to be demonstrated for a long time.This book is dedicated to Tan's parents, who were once immigrants themselves.Steve Earle's Immigrant song: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=75H8J...This book sets aside the politics, mostly, and focuses on the psycho-socio effects of immigrating, the strangeness, the anxiety, the fear, evidenced brilliantly by Tan in sepia-toned and darker shadings, and (especially) the creation of small and large fantastical creatures the immigrants face, symbolic of the newness and strangeness.
This is a wondrous and wonderful book.
Beautifully designed 'in sepia', a weird and touching story.
About a man who leaves his wife and little daughter to emigrate to a new country, to find work and earn a living.
But it is no ordinary story, it is full of fantasy images, creatures and weird observations.
It seems to be symbolic for people going to another country to live, overcome by weird, scary but also beautiful new experiences.
This is translated into a surrealistic, also scifi surrounding with the weirdest animals, shapes and creatures, scary experiences and wonderful encounters.
A special book....highly recommended.
The Arrival  is more than real, because it is Art with a capital A - it is the distillation of the suffering, the alienation, the loneliness and the struggle of countless refugess into a poem without words, a sequence of sepia prints that borrows from Chaplin's silent movies, from Brueghel's fantastic imagination and from Italian neorealism to become more than the sum of its parts: a new medium for a new world, a historical manuscript, a cry for justice and compassion that is as relevant today as it was at the turn of the twentieth century, when the story is set.Shaun Tan spent four years working on this album, gathering personal histories from his family, poring over records on Ellis Island, studying faded photogrpahs in museums and interviewing refugee families from all over the world.
The Arrival begins with a heartbreaking parting, a man gives his wife and daughter a last kiss and boards a steamship to cross the ocean. We follow his struggles being away from home, and entering into a new life where not much is understood or explained. The Arrival tells a universal story of immigration.It was a little hard at first depicting each picture without text, but the more I got into the story, the more I understood.This book is a wordless story told through capturing images. It is be
The Arrival tells a universal story of immigration.It was a little hard at first depicting each picture without text, but the more I got into the story, the more I understood.This book is a wordless story told through capturing images.
It managed to capture solitude, wistfulness, and hopefulness in a little over 100 pages, and it was magical.*Note: I'm an Amazon Affiliate.
If you're interested in buying The Arrival, just click on the image below to go through my link.
Buy a Coffee for nat (bookspoils) with http://Ko-fi.com/bookspoils
UN GRAZIE SPECIALE AL PAPPAGALLO DIEGO PER AVER ISPIRATO MOLTE DELLE CREATURE PRESENTI IN QUESTO LIBRO Autentica meraviglia questi disegni, viene voglia di guardarli e riguardarli, pieni di dettagli da scoprire, di delicatezza, di struggimento, di umanità...Pieni di bellezza.Shaun Tan, nato nell'Australia dell'ovest (Perth, proprio da dove veniva Frank Dunne, il personaggio interpretato da Mel Gibson nel film “Gallipoli”, se può rendere l'idea), da genitori malesi, disegna in apparenza un film, in realtà 'incide' per immagini la storia eterna della migrazione.Il mondo vegetale e animale di Shaun Tan resterà nella mia memoria.
First of all, special thanks to Tukunjil Nayeera for recommending me this wonderful book.The Arrival is a wordless graphic-novel that tells the tale of an immigrant father who leaves his family to work in a foreign land.
The story is told in the form of sequential art with the mood being set with varying degrees of sepia-tone colored illustrations in multiple frames and panels.
The purpose of the novel is to generate empathy among readers for the immigrants and refugees who have been frowned-upon in a world ruled by bigotry, by giving the readers a glimpse of the bigger picture.Shaun Tan sets the mood of each scene with sepia-tone color schemes, ranging from grayscale to bright gold.
Not a single word here...........just a beautifully illustrated picture story that communicates to the reader the heartbreaking separation of an immigrant family.In one man's travels across the ocean to an unfamiliar land, the struggles are apparent to connect to an unknown people, to find work, and earn a living so a desperate father can provide for and be reunited with his wife and daughter.Wonderfully portrayed images induce the reader to envision a difficult life with hope for a better future.
  Touching.......
Wow, I just loved this one.
You do not need words when you have a talent as loud as this.Shaun Tan has, in fact, rocked the charts and souls alike with the poignant way of life of an immigrant.Working hard, toiling under the sun and those sorrowful nights are all acceptable - when you see your family smile.Believe me, it's that smile on your wife's face when you return home that makes you work harder.
It is a novel that holds you by the scruff of the neck and makes you read the mesmerizing pages until the very last.And all that - without speaking.Shaun Tan, you genius !
Shaun Tan`s Universal MasterpieceShaun Tan's graphic novel The Arrival tells the story of the refugee experience, depicting its sense of deprivation, danger, loneliness, discovery, and wonder.Rooted in the picture-story tradition that predates modern comics, the book's wordless language mirrors the protagonist's inability to communicate though words in his new environment; the surreal images provide the story with universal relevance.Brilliantly conceived and masterfully realized, The Arrival is the rare case of a graphic novel that can be recommended to just about anyone, regardless of age or cultural background.
Indisputably,  The Arrival  is a stunning wordless graphic novel that will attract readers because of  how brilliantly it narrated a story through illustrations.  It vividly describes the tale of an immigrant starting in a foreign land: how he struggled with communicating, adjusting to the new culture, the problem on seeking employment, and missing his family.This fiction depicts the true story of some foreigners who chose to leave their love ones, and trying their luck abroad in order to provid
It vividly describes the tale of an immigrant starting in a foreign land: how he struggled with communicating, adjusting to the new culture, the problem on seeking employment, and missing his family.This fiction depicts the true story of some foreigners who chose to leave their love ones, and trying their luck abroad in order to provide a comfortable life for those they left behind.
There are other stories of other characters in this graphic novel that is heart-rending, e.g. the old man who was a war veteran; he lost his other leg and when he return home, he saw that his hometown was destroyed and that there was no survivors.
is a worthy piece of graphic novel to check out because of its compelling story and captivating drawings.
Probably the most gorgeous book I've ever read.
The Arrival is a story told entirely in pictures about the experience of immigration.
It's a surrealistic story, meaning that the world he moves away from and then later into, is very fantastical with sci-fi elements.
This book provokes so much empathy and sadness, and just the angles of the pictures and the creativity behind it and all the otherworldy elements were so well thought through, it was amazing.Even though there were no words, this really tells a story, and I love that about it.
Captures the experience of immigrants in a surreal way that speaks to the wonder and fear of being in a new country - walking the tightrope between opportunity and alienation.
I'm glad that other people know how to put pictures of the pages of this book into their reviews because if I had that kind of knowledge, I fear my entire review would be page after page of the breathtaking artwork in this wordless graphic novel.
That description is so fitting, as this story has no words, yet you read it like you would read a novel.
I believe the author more than achieved what he set out to accomplish when he began the four year(!) process of researching and creating the art and the story.
When people recommended The Arrival to me, I thought it would be of academic interest.
So it took me a long time to pick it up, and I'm so glad that I did.The Arrival is a graphic novel (told in illustrations, not in comics) telling the story of an immigrant coming to a new land.
As someone who makes their living telling their stories with words, I was humbled by just how poignant and humorous and brilliant this book is, without a single word uttered.
Consider a novel's presence on my Goodreads bookshelf as a hearty endorsement.
The artwork is meticulous in this, the colour palette morphing from warm, rich sepia tones, to greys and blacks, matching the changing tone of the story.
The world drawn here is one almost entirely fantastical, yet the historical influences on this story are hard to miss, imagery from Ellis Island, steamships carrying refugees, scenes of war and chaos - are all mixed in with the strange language and animals of this fantasy land.
It is brilliantly done, making the "reader" feel as mystified by this new world as the protagonist of the story.
These feelings of empathy are something the world desperately needs more of.
I never expected to like this picture book.
In fact, I don't like many picture books.
But when I opened up THE ARRIVAL, I instantly knew there was something different about this book.
This is the story of what I can only imagine is the way millions of European immigrants felt as they left their homelands and ventured forth to become part of America.
For a time, as I looked at the pages, I could feel what my grandfather had felt: sadness, excitement, triumph.
As schmaltzy as that sounds, that is the only way I can adequately describe what this book did to me.
This country is certainly very foreign to Father (and me).Father remembers his family and admires the picture he’s hung on the wall of his new place.I don’t know if you can see Father’s little window, or not, but look for the little tail of the pet which is hanging out the window.
Father runs to meet them.After they arrive, they sit down for a happy family meal.Dinner “at home” with the family photo on the wall and the new pet at the table.Later, the little girl takes the “dog” for a walk around her new neighbourhood and finds an even more recent arrival trying to figure out where she is.The daughter helps a young woman read her map.The new migrant has a suitcase much like Father’s, and the daughter shows her where she wants to go.Full circle.
Wow - calling all goodreaders with Christmas present problems - look no further. Buy this one for anyone! They'll never have seen anything like it, and they'll love it. Flinty grandfathers and surly 9 year olds will all love this. It's an entirely wordless story about emigrating and trying to make a new life, with a twist of Jules Verne steampunk. Shaun Tan is absolutely brilliant. The world he creates is familiar and strange and heartbreaking too. Let the rest of this review be wordless too.
The lack of words really forces the "reader" to try to apprehend what is happening without any understanding of the full intent or meaning behind the characters' body language.
Of course, this puts the "reader" in the position of the main character, an immigrant who cannot understand the language of his new homeland and is unfamiliar with its customs.
I prefer the outrageously imaginative art of Lost and Found to the sepia tone nostalgia of The Arrival, though the latter book does carry more emotional impact.
It has found me now and I'm thankful for the experience.This book is wordless and yet it says to much with the extraordinary imagination of Shaun Tan. His vision is boundless.
His art work blows your brains out of your mind and your like, I knew there was more in this world.
I can't believe all the things I have never imagined before.
This world is so beautiful.This is an immigration story for safer lands to grow a family in peace and harmony.
The cities he envision, the plants, the things, the places are so incredible.
It is an amazing experience.
This is an experience.
رواية مصورة من 128 صفحة دون كلمة مكتوبة واحدةأسلوب الرسم شعرت على الفور أنه مألوف، قبل أن أعرف أن المؤلف/الرسام هو نفسه مؤلف/رسام الفيلم المتحرك القصير الحائز على جائزة الأوسكارThe Lost Thingرابط لمشاهدة الفيلم: https://www.facebook.com/Eddeeb/video...قصة شديدة الرقة والعذوبة عن رجل يترك أسرته الصغيرة مهاجرا لبلد آخر باحثا عن حياة أفضلتتوالى اللقطات - تماما كفيلم سينمائي صامت - في عالم صورته الخيال وحقيقته الواقع، تأخذ مشاعرك معها تماما حتى يذوب قلبك في النهاية دون أن تقرأ حرفا واحدا!تجربة شديدة الخصوصية، قدمها فنان عظيم الموهبة.أحمد الديبأبريل 2015
অ-সা-ধা-র-ণ !! গরাফিক নভেল সমপরকে আইডিয়া থাকলেও, সাইলেনট গরাফিক নভেল সমপরকে কিছুই শুনিনি আগে । কিনতু এই বইটা পড়ার(কিনবা দেখার?) পরে শুধু এটুকুই বলব - আমি মুগধ।  পুরো গলপটা বলা হয়েছে ছবির মাধযমে। কোন সংলাপ নেই। আর ছবিগুলোও একেকটা! আর এত সরল একটা গলপ এই ছবিগুলার মাধযমে এমন ভাবে বরণণা করা হয়েছে যে, তা গেথে যাবে মনে। একজন বাবা তার পরিবার রেখে পারি দেয় দূর এক দেশে। ভাগয পরিবরতনের আশায়। যেখানে সবই ভিনন। মানুষ, অদভুত কিছু পশুপাখি। জীবন যাতরার ধরণটাই অনযরকম। সেখানে এই বিরূপ অবসথায় পরিচয় হয় কয়েকজন বনধুভা

Alexandre O'Neill diz que "há palavras que nos beijam;Shaun Tan mostra que há imagens que nos abraçam...
This is one of the best books I have ever read!
His way of conveying emotions of the story to the reader only using pictures is totally out of the world!
It is a story of a man who leaves his country to find a better place for his family and ends up in a new place where things are pretty weird!
Basically it’s a story of immigrant people who face tons of problems in a new country.
The departure of the man leaving his family behind was heartbreaking.
But the ending just melted my heart!
Such a beautiful book.
I have read the pdf version for now.
După un început mai slab de an, încep să dau peste cărți de 5 stele.
Și peste 5, dacă s-ar putea!O minunăție de album grafic, fără niciun cuvânt, doar imagini desenate, unele cinematografice de parcă ar fi rolă de diafilm.
- și adaptarea stranie și dificilă la noua țară.
Evident, noua țară e o ciudățenie SF - metaforă kafkiană pentru orice limbă, obiceiuri și arhitecturi noi.
O ciudățenie cu ființe și clădiri și mașinării desprinse parcă din animațiile lui Miyazaki.
A, și să nu uit fructele și legumele :)5 stele meritate și imprintul Grafic de la Art devine din ce în ce mai serios.
