https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/159604.Woman_at_Point_Zero
This is my second El Saadawi book and I wish I’d written a review for the first book of hers that I read, The Innocence of the Devil, because I thought both books were excellent, similar in their approach and very powerful in how they portrayed patriarchy, sexism, hypocrisy, and misogyny.I love Firdaus, our protagonist, and I think she’s a character who’ll stay with me for a very long time.
Nawal El-Saadawi has been on my wish list for the Nobel Prize in Literature for many, many years, ever since she dragged me into the scary universe of Two Women in One, showing the double life of women in Egypt, conforming to rules set by men while letting their creativity and independence gain power within their own minds.The Swedish Academy being what it is, it would be completely unheard of to award women two years in a row, but I keep hoping!
I had trouble reading this book, mostly because I wanted to find a quiet place where I could read it all in one setting and digest this magnificent woman's life.Secondly, people seem to forget that they aren't reading a fictional story.
She couldn't give me an answer.So, in all honesty, I approached this book with a feminist point of view and I was sucked in.
By the end of the book, I realized two things that the people who reviewed before me had often missed.1) Firdaus is not the main character of the story.
It's a cautionary tale from a woman who lived her life like all of us, constantly seeking happiness.
Her political activism involves challenging FGM, arguing that women are oppressed by the patriarchal religions and highlighting a range of women’s issues.This novel is based on Saadawi’s meeting with a woman soon to be executed in prison in the early 1970s.
I sat down on it, and lifted my face to the refreshing breeze.”However the crux of the matter relates to choice and control, the lack of choices women have and the control men have:“How many were the years of my life that went by before my body, and my self became really mine, to do with them as I wished?
.. اما بالنسبه للمرأه فى مجتمعنا فهى ببساطه لن تكون -مهما بلغت- الا المعتوهة او الشيطانه التى عليها ان تتحمل اخطاء الجميع والسبب طبعا لانها امرأه وهذا سبب كافى جدا للومها واستغلالها وقهرها ولنفس السبب ايضا عليها ان تؤمن بشده انها الادنى لاسباب ليست علميه بيولوجيه ولا حتى دينيه..
ولا عجب ان مجتمعاتنا تعج بالكثير من الرجال الجشعين الانذال الماجنين و الكثير ايضا من النساء السلبيات المغفلات ممن اتبعوا قانون الذكر وهو الايمان بأجسادهن فقط دون عقولهن، جنسهن دون انسانيتهن..والمحصله مجتمع افراده ضائعون فاقدون لذاتهم الحقيقيه وقيمهم الساميه...
Tokat gibi çarpıyor insanın suratına.
Yazarın Mısır'da Kanatır cevaevinde görüştüğü idam mahkumu bir kadının hikayesi. Karar vermek zor; insan olarak mı yoksa kadın olarak mı daha çok etkilendim? Gerçekliğine inanmak istemeyeceğimiz kadar gerçek maalesef.
I've loved this slim novel since I read it for the first time in an undergrad literature class. It's beautifully written, addictive as heck and features a harrowing main character. It's simply written and that gives room for the complex narrative (this my favorite type of writing). This book was an enormous influence on my own novel Who Fears Death. And rereading it really reminded me why.
Firdevs, Mısırlı bir fahişe..Kitabı okurken kölelik, esaret, korku, güç, gerçek kavramlarını bir daha düşünmenize sebep oluyor..
Bu yalınlığın içinde de vahşi bir güç yatar.
Yaşamın vahşi, ilkel gerçeklerine ancak yıllar süren bir savaşımın sonunda varabildim.
Her ikisiyle de yüz yüze gelmek büyük bir cesaret gerektirdiğinden, ölümle gerçek birbirine benzer.
Gerçekler de insanı öldürdüğü için, ölüm gibidir.
Ben bir insanı öldürdüğüm zaman, onu bıçakla değil, gerçekle öldürdüm.
Bu yüzden korkuyorlar; beni yok etmek için bu yüzden acele ediyorlar.
Bu korkutucu gerçek bana güç veriyor.
Beni ölümden, yaşamdan, açlıktan, çıplaklıktan ya da yılgınlıktan koruyor.
Beni hükümdarlarla polisin zalimliğinden koruyan da bu korkutucu gerçektir."
O kadar çarpıcı bir kitaptı ki... Tokat gibiydi, mutlaka okuyun!
Ne diyeceğini bilmediği anlar, genelde söyleyecek çok şeyi olduğu anlar oluyor insanın. Şu kadarını diyeyim ki nice devrimci metinden, romandan, söylevden daha devrimci, çatır çatır bir hikaye Firdevs'in hikayesi. Bu fahişenin hikayesini okuyun lütfen. Okuyun ve söylediklerine gücünüz ve dürüstlüğünüz yetiyorsa cevap verin.
This review could probably just read: Men suck.But then that wouldn't cover the fact that sometimes women do too.
But:Men suck (and sometimes women as well)doesn't have the same punchiness.Really though, in this story by Nawal El-Saadawi men do suck.
Sometimes it will take some time for you to show us just how much you suck, but that only means when you do, you end up sucking twice as bad.
Does Ms El-Saadawi blame the specific environment of Egypt and the contaminating influence of Islamic religion used to praise the dehumanising of women?
And in that reality, men suck.
فبينما تدلي بدلوها فيما ليس لها فيه علم وتستخدم نظريات فرويدية عفا عليها الزمن وتكتب أدبا رديئا، يتم استغلالها لضرب قضية المرأة في مقتل، شأنها في ذلك شأن منى الطحاوي وآذر نفيسي وآيان حرسي علي.
فأقصى ما نتهم به الرجال ممن نختلف معهم هو الالحاد، وهو على ما فيه من إجحاف إلا أنه لا يسلبه العقلانية كما يحدث مع المرأة التي تناقشنا فيما لا نحب.
هذا لا يعني بالطبع أنه ليس لدينا مشاكل فيما يخص المرأة وكثير منها أثارته نوال السعداوي وغيرها وإن لم يوفقن في الطرح.للاطلاع على التقرير كاملا http://www3.weforum.org/docs/GGGR2015...
It’s a novel that plunges deep into the pit of patriarchy, abuse of power, failures of feminism, and the sex workers industry.El-Saawadi’s narration is clever and precise.
And this is not a novel where you want your imagination to chart it’s own course.Firdaus’s story is gut-wrenching and echoes a corner of society that we’d prefer not to acknowledge.
If feminism is ever to reach it’s potential, it needs to start working from the bottom.
Firdevs... Hiç de yabancı değilsin.İçerisinde çok iyi tespit edilmiş toplum eleştirileri bulunan bu kitabı okurken Cem Keçe hocamın sözleri devamlı aklımda uçuştu."Bu topraklarda çok fazla kız çocuğu var çok fazla anne var. Fakat nereyse yok denilecek kadar çok az kadın var. Toplumun yarısı kadınlardan, diğer yarısını da kadınların yetiştirdikleri erkeklerden oluşmakta. Yani anlayacağınız kadın demek toplum demektir. Eğer kadın sağlıksızsa, eğitimsizse, bilinçsizse toplum da sağlıksız, eğitimsiz ve bilinçsiztir. Hani Nazım Hikmet'in de;"Anamız, avradımız, yarimiz ve sanki hiç yaşamamış gibi ölen ve soframızdaki yeri öküzümüzden sonra gelen..."dediği, kadının kadın gibi yaşayamadığı/yaşatılmadığı topraklar sağlıksız topraklardır."

Firdaus was awaiting execution when Saadawi had an opportunity to meet and talk with her, to get the story directly from the inmate's mouth.The result turned into this slim novel based on what Firdaus told Saadawi.Understandably, there was not a lot of time between their meeting and the execution of Firdaus, but my biggest complaint about this novel is just how unemotional the connection appears to be.
My virtue, like the virtue of all those who are poor, could never be considered a quality, or an asset, but rather looked upon as a kind of stupidity, or simple-mindedness, to be despised even more than depravity or vice. Nearly three years between adding this and reading this was long enough to shift from being myopically proud of my "cultivated" tastes to becoming suspicious of why I'd want this author in particular to win the Nobel Prize for Lit without having even read them. There's nothing
Female genital mutilation, rape culture, sex work, the individual bootstrappist trapped in a conspiracy who, despite it all, rises above it in a feat of self-annihilating violence: in short, if you as a white person aren't self-reflexive as fuck in reading this, you're just another cog in the machine.
It's short, straightforward, contains enough circular thematic material to get the juices churning (the bisexual structure a much needed bonus), reinvigorates the lust for an increase in the 3% translation portion of the US reading market, does the always necessary work of representing women of color writers, takes the dusty mantles of modernist experimentation and pulls it inside out into a riot of fleshy brilliance, probes the divide between author and authored and back again, and, all in all, fulfills 600% of the goals that texts ten times the size more often than not scurry away from.
any way ; the author's style is a little bit boring & repetitive for my taste, that is why I did not manage to finish this small book quickly !The novel discusses males' abuse for females in all its (physical & psychological) formats ; through one main character (Fardus ) , she grown up in a totally unhealthy environment where all humanisticrelationships are distorted & have double standers , so Fadus is sick & pathetic , you get companionate with her , her defeating , her soul’s separation from her body , her loneliness , confusion & searching in the eyes for light and behind the gates for the security she hoped for , her passive resistance lead her to a revolution where white & black get mixed , her revolution to the system became against all men .I liked the way the author linked between woman’s defeat and the society’s , Despotic system leads to sick community that his woman is defeated , but in my opinion the case was analyzed superficially , meaning : the is system corrupted just because it is male related!
بعد اطالعك على سيرة نوال السعدوي ..
فيما يخص طفولتها وشبابها فيما بعد..لا داعي للسؤال ..
فالقارئ سيكتشف من خلال هذه الرواية أن السيدة نوال كانت تحاول نقل الحركة النسوية الى العالم العربي عن طريق الأدب .أدب يصور معانات المرأة العربية بسبب النظام الاجتماعي المفروض عليهاالتحليل النفسي لما يميز شخصية فردوس في الرواية، (الرغبة في السيطرة، كره الرجل والمرأة الضعيفة والقتل) والذي كان نتيجة لطفولتها القاسية في عائلة تجمع بين ضعف الأم واستبداد الأب والعم، يؤكد ابداع نوال في الدمج الجاد بين الأدب وعلم النفس..
عليها بمقاومة هذا العالم الرجالي والتمرد عليه مهما كان الثمن
Bu kitap için yorum yapmak beni zorluyor. Bunca şeyi gerçekten yaşamış bir kadın için ben ne diyebilirim ki? Gerçekten kadın olmak zor. Özellikle Mısır’da daha da zor bence. Daha çocukluğunda babasının ezmesi ve amcasının tacizleriyle başlayan hayatı hiç gün yüzğne çıkmayan bir kadın. Gerçekten yüreğim parçalandı okurken ve neredeyse kitabın yarısının altını çizdim. Şu an ben ne desem boş. Mutlaka alınıp okunması gereken bir kitap.
She would be executed by hanging, her story absorbed by El Saadawi who would eventually put it to paper, in this telling of Firdaus, Woman at Point Zero.From her early days, Firdaus was one who was noticed, though rarely looked out for, cruelty and neglect made up her childhood, rescued by an Uncle who'd already crossed filial boundaries, her one respite to be sent by him to school, his new wife further insisting she live there, perhaps the only paradisaical period of her life, the one time she was left alone to flourish, to evolve.Finding no place for her in her Uncle's home, still a teenager she is forced to marry the more than 60 yr old Uncle of her Aunt, runs from him and is taken in by another only to suffer worse abuse, a fate she seems destined to continue to live until she meets Sharifa, who takes her in and teaches her her value, a turning point in her awareness from which she will change her fate.'How is it possible to live?
This translation by an Egyptian female author gives us a traumatic picture of how a young woman is brutalized physically and mentally by just about every man, relative or stranger, that she runs into.
She runs away from a brutal husband and becomes a prostitute to survive.
She works her way up to being a prostitute who caters to the wealthy political and military elite of the society and she becomes wealthy herself.
This is a tragedy of course, and we can see why the author's works were banned.
"Bütün kadınlar, yalanların, dolanların kurbanıydı. Erkekler kadınları aldatır, aldandıkları için de onları cezalandırır; aşağılar, bu kadar düştükleri için cezalandırır; evlenmeye zorlar, sonra da ömür boyu hizmetçiliğe, küfürlere ya da dayağa mahkûm ederlerdi. En az aldatılan kadının fahişe olduğunu kavramıştım artık. Evliliğin kadınların en zalim şekilde acı çekmesine dayalı bir sistem olduğunu anlamıştım."Başından kalkamadan okuduğum nadir kitaplardan biri. Ne desem bilmiyorum. Okuyun, mutlaka okuyun.
اكتر من رائعة شخصية فردوس تجبر كل من يقرأ هذة الرواية ان ينحنى لها احتراما هى ليس مومس هى ببساطة ضحية مجتمع قذر مليىء بالوسخات
İdam edilen Mısırlı bir fahişenin öyküsünü anlatıyor yazar. Çok acıklı, çok vahim ve bence çok korkunç olaylar. Tabii bir de gerçek bir olayı anlatıyor.Kitapla ilgili incelemem: https://kitapokurum.blogspot.com/2018...
My first YA book for young girls, and had helped girls finish college and avoid early marriages and teen pregnancies."Firdaus" is its alternative title because it is based on a real character by that name, an Egyptian woman who was imprisoned and executed in 1974.
The novel sounds more like one, continuous rant against men ("all the men I did get to know, every single one of them, has filled me with but one desire: to lift my hand and bring it smashing down his face," intones Firdaus).A perfect gift for wives, girlfriends and lovers for this coming Valentine's Day.
This novel (described as 'creative non-fiction' in the Foreword) probably describes the grievous and appalling conditions facing millions of women and children around the world today.
The subject matter and message are important, but as a novel, it didn't hit the right spot for me.There are quite a few instances where entire passages are repeated or substantially reproduced with only some minor word changes.
Struck with a sense of deja vu, at first I thought I had somehow accidentally flipped to the wrong page, but nope, upon checking I realised they WERE being repeated.
I have seen dialogue lines repeated in other books for good reasons, but never entire paragraphs of narrative text.
"I have triumphed over both life and death because I no longer desire to live, nor do I any longer fear death. I want nothing. I hope for nothing. Therefore I am free. For during life it is our wants, our hopes, our fears that enslave us. The freedom I enjoy fills them (the patriarchy) with anger."  I could not help but make a strong connection between the main character Firdous and Camus's philosophical approach to The Myth of Sisyphus. Firdous truly is, as El Saadawi concludes, "more courageous than I."
Some themes may be triggering for readers. Rape, sexual, physical, mental, and domestic abuse are recurrent themes. Yet, this is a powerful and necessary book. Read at your own discretion.  Alright, kids, let's get down to business.Basically, this book made my feminist heart GLEE. And I'm a bundle of sorrow for our narrator Firdaus and a raging hellhound for the scumbags that call themselves "men" in this book (don't get me wrong, I know epic, wonderful men and they all hold a special place in
Firdaus is escorted out of her cell to her death and Saadawi walks away a changed woman.This very real story brings attention to one of the harrowing tools of oppression: systematic power, and how it impacts the female in every way possible.
This whole book is based on the life of a real woman who spoke these words to Saadawi in a prison cell in Egypt.
BUT YET AGAIN never take anything at face value but this is such an important novel ahhh idk man NOW, HERE'S THE LIST OF THINGS™:- Women joining forces and looking out for each other makes me so happy and when it happened in this book, on the rare occasions it did, I was jumping for joy- Firdaus' transformation is epic and inspiring and painful.
