https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/597.Killing_Yourself_to_Live
As a longtime admirer of Chuck Klosterman’s writing on pop music and culture, it pains me to report that his latest book, Killing Yourself to Live: 85% of a True Story, is a dismal, shoddy piece of work.
The premise is promising: Klosterman sets out on a cross-country road trip to visit all of the sites of rock ’n’ roll’s long, rich history of death.
...and Mr. Klosterman and I officially fall in love. If you're going to date me, you should read this book. If you want to learn how to smoke marijuana resin using parts of your car, you should read this. Don't read this book if you have epilepsy.
Bret Easton Ellis on Chuck Klosterman: 'I can't think of a more sheerly likeable writer...big-hearted ....optimistic and amiable'.
Not the same Chuck I met on this dead rock star ridden road trip.
In the beginning there was Chuck and his admirable road soundtrack - Drive-By-Trucker's Southern Rock Opera and Bowie's Hunky Dory.
It's about a love.
The love of several (if not many) women and a lonely, sad narcissist who believes Rod Stewart has the best male rock voice.
And yet, all bitterness aside there were times when Chuck was so relatable it became frightening to read on.
I wanted this book to be a Sarah Vowell's "Assassination Vacation"-style account of the US history of rock n roll deaths as narrated by the typically witty Chuck Klosterman.
But whatever, Chuck's world is not my world.Additionally, I find it totally disgusting and reprehensible that Klosterman says retarded people are unlikeable.p.120, Chuck's having an imaginary conversation with his ex-girlfriends: " 'What would happen if I stopped being funny?
What if I stopped listening to you whenever you talk about why you like shopping for boots?
What was recommended to me as a great "road trip book" soon seemed like a chore, drudging through all of his pop culture references and insipid bullshit about his own life history.
And I admit, I enjoyed some of Klosterman's other collections of essays because sometimes I am in the mood for his smarmy, spiteful, silly little shit-head takes on the world at large filtered through music and pop culture references.
So, in this, he connects even less to the pop culture he reveres and idolizes, and moves instead to make an even bigger pile of shit in this landfill I'll very loosely call "his work".
Both follow through on a preposterous, dubious quest (Klosterman visits the sites of rock star deaths, McElwee retraces Sherman's march to Atlanta) only to use it as a vehicle for visiting old girlfriends and then sitting in hotel rooms reminiscing about them.
McElwee is more insightful, but Klosterman is funnier and ultimately more human in the end.What's right about it is more important:1) He is funny as hell, up there with David Sedaris and John Waters as the funniest modern writers talking about their art/selves.2) This book makes me want to write more, and write more about writing, and then write more about that unafraid of how meta one can go before one finally implodes.
Why do we care about Chuck Klosterman?
As is the case with many young-ish writers today (to wit: Sarah Vowell), Klosterman’s book’s stated purpose serves merely as an ostensible vehicle for the author to write about himself, his life, his loves, etc.
One might be tempted to write this off as narcissism or myopia, but Klosterman somehow manages to wrest insights into the human condition out of the twisted, emotional menagerie that is his psyche.
Chuck Klosterman is an engaging writer--easy to understand, explicit, and simplistic. But he's also a pretentious rock critic who basically threw together a book from the a lackluster journal that was published solely on the coattails of the success of his earlier book, Sex, Drugs, and Cocoa Puffs. The premise of is that Chuck is going to travel to famous sites across America where rock 'n roll related deaths occurred: the Great White club fire, the crossroads where Duane Allman died on his moto
The premise of  is that Chuck is going to travel to famous sites across America where rock 'n roll related deaths occurred: the Great White club fire, the crossroads where Duane Allman died on his motorcycle, that kind of stuff.
And while that stuff is in there, it is almost a footnote.
His egotism and self-deprecation in order to avoid sounding egotistical was too much to take.
Even his initial description of how he came to go on this ambulance chasing road trip smacked of egotism and affectations.
What does it mean to be epic?
Once again, Chuck Klosterman reveals himself to be a boring, self-centered paragon of bad taste with horrible ideas about the relations between the sexes.
I just wish that he would go as far as he thinks he's going into genuine critique of cultural elitism and how callously it allows us to treat each other.
(A crowd-crushing fatality at a Smashing Pumpins concert a few years ago was treated with shocking cruelty by some of my fellows in the music industry for the same reason.) Klosterman hints at condemning this attitude but, perhaps realizing the extent his readership belong to the callous "elite" group, shies away.Classic Klosterman sexism abounds here as well.
So tiresome.Also classic Klosterman: boring-ass prose.
Somewhere, at some point, somehow, somebody decided that death equals credibility. I read Sex, Drugs, and Cocoa Puffs when it first came out, and even though that has lingered in my mind for a decade now as a funny and interesting skewering of pop culture, I didn't pick up another Chuck Klosterman book until now; and I think it would have been better if I had let him remain in my memory as a funny and interesting guy. Finishing Killing Yourself to Live, I can only report that this book felt for
Finishing Killing Yourself to Live, I can only report that this book felt forced and pointless, and even if Klosterman went on to write the next big thing, I don't know if I feel like giving him another chance.
Maybe in another ten years.The concept: Klosterman's editor at Spin magazine decides that he should write something epic, and she sends him on a road trip to the sites of famous Rock and Roll deaths, despite the fact that he hates driving, has contempt for sightseeing, and doesn't care very much about these particular dead rockers.
And frankly, I think we all feel that way sometimes.But I can also see how other people might not like Klosterman.
Its like Klosterman wrote a particularly funny diary for us about this road trip he went on and reading it made everyone feel a little better about the times they can be a little self-absorbed or monomaniacal or just plain bad at communication.Klosterman is a reflection of all of us at our most earnest and sometimes most awkward.Now, this book is ostensibly about rock star death but I really think its about the death of one's self throughout life.
He shouldn't have published this book.
I picked it up (or, rather, was given) thinking that it would be an exploration of sites where dead rockers perished.
Growing up in Seattle, I was bred with an intense love of Kurt Cobain.
Growing up goth, I have an intense love of death.
Maybe worth a read if you're a liberal arts major who watches Wes Anderson movies and thinks Ed Hardy is the most amazing form of popular art the fashion world has ever seen.
This book should be on "Stuff White People Like".
Book 20/150
I've never read a book that made me feel so intellectually stimulated.
I instantly wanted to tell everyone I knew to read this book so that we could have intellectual conversations about life, death, love.
(I don't know tons about the lives of the members of KISS or Lynyrd Skynyrd) However this didn't take too much away from my appreciation of the book.
If anything it made me want to learn more about these bands and their members so that I can have an even deeper appreciation for the book.
I cannot express how highly I recommend this book.
I just finished this book and I think a more accurate title for it would be "To all the manic pixie dream girls I've loved before".
The idea of driving across America to visit its most famous rock 'n roll death sites is interesting but it doesn't feel to me as if this author had the maturity or insight to really do the subject matter justice- the majority of the book consists of the author's narcissistic and adolescent rambling about his various boring relationships and encounters with women, none of whom seem very real.
This is a well written but ultimately a lazy, shallow and unrewarding book.
I have loved some of Klosterman's writing, but this book is really not for me. It's about Chuck spending 5 weeks driving around the country, mostly by himself, locating the places where famous rock musicians have died. And he has some tremendous one-liners thrown in there, but Chuck and I don't care for the same music, and I just never really got into his chapter after chapter of how this or that song/album/group moved him, and his thoughts on how/where that person died. If you are a serious music fiend, this is totally for you.
Witty, charming, hilarious and offbeat. Chuck Klosterman feels like the real life personification of Rob from High Fidelity. Eager to read more of his work!
The author goes on a road trip in search of actual places that famous rock musicians died.
If this was actually what the book was about I think it would have been interesting but he barely touches on his destinations and instead reverts to whining about the lost loves of his life and everything else that sucks in his life.
He also frequently gives his opinion about music and musicians, most of whom I have never heard of.
Interesting concept for a book.
I just think it could have been done better.
Yay. I'm FINALLY done.
As I wrote in my review of Sex, Drugs, and Cocoa Puffs, Klosterman is the poster child for postmodern American writers.
Unlike Sex, Drugs, and Cocoa Puffs which was a collection of unrelated essays, Killing Yourself to Live is a singular work.
Overall, it’s a much more focused and compelling read than Sex, Drugs, and Cocoa Puffs because the subject matter is deeper, and his usage of his relationships adds a level of humanity and emotion to the narrative.
On the other hand, most of his writing tics still annoyed me – like the inclusion of random tangents of his opinion.
Made it to page 54 before I felt like I just might throw this book into a dumpster. I can't understand someone who is fascinated and in awe of an author who wrote about what music she'd listen to if she ever was brave enough to slit her wrists and bleed to death to, and yet finds no majesty, beauty or history in seeing the Washington Monument (or any monument in DC) or the Grand Canyon. He finds these "things" pointless, but music-to-suicide-to worth writing an entire chapter about. No thanks.
If you want to learn about dead musicians and how they died, look elsewhere.
1/3 Into this book and I still haven't learned a thing.
The title of this book should be My Boring Life - it is all irrelevant rambles on the author's friends, relationships, drug use, and work.
I decided to pull the plug during a part in the book where he says, "I wonder how long it would take someone to find me if I died on top of this hill and who would care.
Tommy would call Billy who would call Timmy would call Suzy who would call..." STFU
There's really nothing I could say about this book that would make it sound appealing to anyone other than thirtysomething music nerds. Klosterman – on assignment from Spin magazine – travels cross-country visiting some of music most infamous death sites. In the course of his travels he ruminates on life, love, and KISS. Klosterman's takes on pop culture are unfailingly funny, usually right on the mark, and more often than not reflect things I wish I had said myself. The whole book was like catnip to me – but then again, I'm a thirtysomething music nerd.
I read this for a college class so that we could analyse it in terms of Ironic Living.
1. The depth of this book, and the material that it dealt with was very interesting and complex.
There was a lot of metaphor and a whole level of thought I did not see by just reading through casually.2.
there was a lot of inappropriate material for young adults in here--it is certainly an adult book.
But, in the end, I do would not recommend you read it, unless you have very specific reasons to do so, or if it is required for a college class.
Cool book. Fun non-fiction to breeze through, especially for a music lover. Don't read if you hate that pre/early millennial pretension.
Fun listening to a local boy and hearing about his "tour!"
I LOVED THIS!!!!!
I am a sucker for pop culture and I like to be entertained. This book fit the bill. And yet, I wish the author didn't come off as such a jerk. Enjoyed the narration and found this audiobook perfect for commuting.
For a better description of what is to hate about this book that serves also as a cautionary tale for would-be writers about what an audience most definitely ain't interested in reading about, read "Mike's" review here (he gives the book a star):Mike rated it: 12/05/07bookshelves: nonfiction Read in April, 2005As a longtime admirer of Chuck Klosterman’s writing on pop music and culture, it pains me to report that his latest book, Killing Yourself to Live: 85% of a True Story, is a dismal, shoddy piece of work.
I love how full of shit this guy is.For all of the people who hated this book because they thought Klosterman has 'terrible taste in music' I think they might have skimmed over this one part:So many of the rock concerts I've attended have been filled with people who were there only to be there, who just wanted to be seen by other people who were there only to be there...
Still, it mostly felt like he was dragging me behind him on this trip.
Sure, there are days where I show up and can't wait to go home, but in general, it's alright.
You just quit going to work one day?
And then you quit your job and went to work construction?
Because if not, I'm pretty sure that movie is not "about you." But ANYWAY, if I were to follow my Office Space journey it would not end with a burned down building and me shoveling crap into a wheelbarrow, it would end with me being Chuck Klosterman.
So thanks, Chuck, for following the dream that I am too lazy to.But, seriously, KISS?
