https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/435556.Enemy_at_the_Gates
Like World War II itself, it is like nothing else.William Craig, in his brilliant 1973 chronicle of the battle has recounted the meeting of an unstoppable force (the German blitzkrieg) and an immovable object (the stubborn and obstinate Communists) passionately defending their ground – in an action eerily similar to the American Civil War Battle of Gettysburg – where the initial goals were unrelated to the eventual conflict.
The November Soviet counter-offensive that surrounded the over extended Nazis is likely still studied today.Told with an eye towards objectivity and with the good, the bad, and the ugly of both sides; this is still more sympathetic to the Russians: the stolid defenders of the city.
This title was the catalyst for my enduring fascination with books covering the fighting on the Eastern Front during World War Two. This is a great story of the fighting at Stalingrad endured by the German and Russian armies. Although not as deeply researched as Glantz’s titles this book offers an insight into the soldier’s war and does it brilliantly. This is still one of my top ten books ever which isn’t bad considering it was first published in the early 1970’s. Recommended for anyone who loves a good historical account.
And the mighty Russian Winter also played a huge role in the German defeat.For example, the Dzerhezinsky Tractor Works in Stalingrad, the assembly point for thousands of farm machines, which since the war was one of the principal producers of T-34 tanks for the Red Army, ran for more than a mile along the main north-south road.
Dr. Ottmar Kohler, a surgeon in the German army, kept treating wounded soldiers even though he broke his upper jaw in Russian shelling.
The battle of Stalingrad had eventually degenerated into a personal struggle between the egos of Stalin and Hitler.Finally the combination of pincer tactics adopted by the mighty Red army and the great Russian winter proved too much for the Germans.
The author points out that Hitler’s imbecilic order would allow the Soviets to escape destruction, regroup, and live to fight another day.
The Germans could have destroyed two Soviet Armies on the open steppes just outside of Stalingrad.
With 6th Army bogged down in street fighting in the city, Stalin was able to launch the great Soviet counter attack against German flanks guarded by comparatively weaker Italian, Romanian, and Hungarian troops.
Stalingrad wasn’t the first time the Army had been cut off.
By the time Hitler’s chief of staff was able to convince Hitler to allow a withdrawal of 6th Army it was too late.
I knew the basics about Stalingrad before reading this book: that it was perhaps the most important battle of the war and a huge turning point, that it involved sniper battles, house-to-house fighting, huge casualties on both sides, and entire armies from Germany and Romania pretty much disappearing.
The movie stretches the duel out longer than it lasted in real life, but did keep some of the details—Koning’s last sniper nest, the fact that Koning thought he’d killed Zaitsev and was then killed when he went to check.
There was also a highly-educated woman named Tania in real life, and she and Vassili were lovers during Stalingrad.
Together, they make for a extremely readable and engrossing account--to the extent that in the middle of the book, when Field Marshal Manstein was making his doomed effort to relieve General Paulus' beleaguered Sixth Army, Craig was able to make it read as if the outcome were still in doubt, and I felt myself almost on tenterhooks as I read about events that happened seventy-five years ago.
If, for some reason though, I was never able to get to Beevor's book (and I'm not really ready to jump into another account of Stalingrad immediately) I think I've been well served by Craig.
An entirely sobering account of the epochal battle of Stalingrad.
Corpses abound – towards the end rotting bodies are stacked up in makeshift German hospitals.Stalingrad is what can happen to invaders.
When one seeks to destroy a city (and in the case of Russia this amounted to many cities) there will eventually be a terrible price to pay.
In the “World at War” documentary episode on Stalingrad a Russian comments: “These German soldiers are a funny lot with their shiny black boots attacking Stalingrad – did they think they were on a joy-ride?”This book should be viewed as manifesting the ultimate evil and destructiveness of war – millions paid a horrible price.
The German forces found themselves engaged in a door-to-door battle in a pile of rubble defended by Soviet soldiers who were committed to defend the city or die in the attempt.
The German commander, Paulus, did not receive permission from his superiors to break out of the trap, and he dithered until it was too late to act on a break-out effort.The most famous soldier to emerge from this battle undoubtably was the Russian sniper Vassili Zaitsev.
No more than five thousand German soldiers ever returned home, of the 91,000 remaining prisoners.William Craig provides an excellent history of the most costly battle, in terms of lives lost, ever.
Descriptive personal testimony of trauma, starvation, frostbite and even post-war follow up on many of the survivors.History will forever debate whether Paulus should have broken out of the kessel in December 1942 in defiance of Hitler's orders.
Both Manstein and Hoth admitted that Paulus was too subservant to Hitler and that Paulus should have broken out when he had the chance.
In Manstein's defense, he was a maverick and he did defy Hitler's orders more than once - and he was correct to do so.I would have given this book 5 Stars if it had more maps detailing the various troop movements.
Don't even harbor the thought that the film version of "Enemy at the Gates" bears anything but cursory relation to this book.
The sniper story that makes up the plot of the movie version only takes up a couple of pages in this book.
Craig doesn't spend much time on it; he only considered it a minor blip in the action and hard to verify as factual (and a lot of it was undoubtedly embellished for propaganda purposes).
This and Harrison Salisbury's massive "The 900 Days," about the siege of Leningrad (with its own litany of horrors), are my two favorite war books.
One of the best battle accounts incorporating both sides while keeping a fair perspective. Fascinating and bloody, the battle was a key turning point to the war and this one should be read. *Oct 2012 Reread* This book remains a "must-read" on Stalingrad. It ranges from the grand strategy of Hitler's invasion of the USSR down to the grunts in the cellars and rubble of the city. Horror, cruelty and suffering yet flashes of humanity and charity in a titanic battle. Excellent reading even if it is almost 40 years since it was first published.
The battle was critical to the fate of the Eastern Front.General Frederick von Paulus’s German Sixth Army was fresh from crushing the Ukraine.
Stalingrad, formerly called Tsaritsyn (now called Volgograd) was now the focal point of the German Army.Craig divided the book into two parts with part one detailing the German offensive and part two covering the Russian counteroffensive.
This was a costly battle with a well equipped German Army against a poorly equipped and trained Russian Army.
The German snipers with their scopes caused enormous loss for the Russians.
Tania Chebova a Russian sniper killed 80 Germans in three months.The book was meticulously researched.
Medjutim, ono sto je cini interesantnijom su i price pojedinaca, koje je Craig intervjuisao (knjiga je izasla 1973) i koji uspevaju da od velikog konflikta koji bi nas inace prenerazio "statistikom", visokim brojkama mrtvih, ranjenih i poslatih u logore, naprave licne price.
Takav fokus postize to da svaku od tih stotine hiljada zrtava mozemo da vidimo kao nekoga od desetina pojedinaca na koje se autor fokusira.
Jedna od tih prica je i snajperski dvoboj izmedju Vasilija Zajceva i nemackog majora, ali prica o Zajcevu je samo veoma mali deo ove monumentalne studije.Ono sto nisam ocekivao je da se knjiga, pogotovo u svom drugom delu, vise fokusira na nemacku stranu price.
I mean that, for the vast majority of the book, it is possible, and indeed encouraged, to forget that the German soldiers with whom we are asked to sympathize are in fact the tools of an abhorrent, genocidal ideology and government.
He's stacked the deck, in other words, and I don't find that acceptable.Do I think that the German soldiers and officers of the Sixth Army deserve sympathy?
But I don't think that the outcome of the battle of Stalingrad, and the suffering of the Sixth Army, somehow negates the reasons and the choices that put them there in the first place.
Published in 1973, Craig’s book is compiled from scores of survivor interviews, letters, communiqués and protagonist memoirs from both sides.
The reader is immersed in the freezing trenches and basements of privates and NCOs, the command bunkers of German and Russian generals and Führer headquarters at the Wolf’s Lair in East Prussia.
Craig also touches on the mismanagement of the German High Command, notably Hitler’s miscomprehension or indifference to a worsening situation and Goering’s assurance of resupply by air, doomed to failure from the outset.
His insistence to follow Hitler’s orders to the letter and not apply the initiative of a commander on the ground ultimately doomed the sixth army.
I watched the movie before reading the book; a mistake I'll never do again. The movie was a blockbuster but the novel was much more than that. William Craig knows how to get us attached to the characters and how to bring them to life. A true masterpiece describing the Eastern front in WWII.
This non-fiction book reads like a novel. It is very informative. Written from extensive interviews and diary accounts from both sides of the battle of Stalingrad. I could not put it down.
An objective reason for the preponderence of information from the German side can be found in the secrecy and propaganda that the Russians used in their later accounts of the battle and the difficulty of an American historian to penetrate the Soviet archives, but even so, after five years of intensive research he did for the book, I would have expected William Craig to be more balanced.On a personal note, the battle of Stalingrad is of particular interest for Romanians, because it caused the almost total destruction of our regular national army.
Heroism, courage, the almost maniacal will to survive, loyalty, patriotism- yep, all these things shone in this history of the World War Two battle for Stalingrad.
But what I both sadly and angrily take away from this is the sheer monstrous insanity of the worship, the deification, of orders to kill.
Do not question the order to kill, to maim, to destroy.
This horrendous battle took place over seventy years ago yet it could be today.
Fifteen hundred citizens of Stalingrad out of a half million emerged into a destroyed city.
The Battle of Stalingrad is acknowledged as one of the largest, bloodiest, and most important in history.
Author William Craig describes the battle (August 1942 to February 1943) mostly in very personal terms, following individual Russian, German, and Italian soldiers, officers, and generals through those six months.
He also gives the reader a good appreciation of the actions of Joseph Stalin and in particular, Adolph Hitler.
Human suffering and death on both sides was simply horrendous.
The results of this campaign effectively marked the beginning of a long decline for Nazi Germany.Author William Craig does a good job of teaching the reader about this battle.
Amazing read
Stalingrad took place in 1942-43, and D-Day was still over a year in the future.The book lays out all the strategy, tactics, and brings the battle and its aftermath home to the general reader with passages on individual soldiers and medical personnel on each side and civilians.
I wish the first map in the book had marked the Command Centers: that Tsaritsa Gorge, Mamaev Hill and Yama had been marked in red letters and the rivers in blue letters, to make them stand out.
Excellent account of THE critical battle of World War 2Not at all sensational, complete and thorough, never boring. This is an excellent account of the battles in and around Stalingrad. Highly recommended.
With that said this book is a titan of war history and a pleasure to read.Anyone who reads about this battle should realize that the Soviets did in Hitler and America and the rest of the Allies finished the job.
It was Stalin against Hitler in the grandest shit-heel vs shit-heel battle in world history.
Antony Beevor's book is probably better and if you are forced to read only one book on the subject I’d suggest Stalingrad: The Fateful Siege but this isn’t Russia; you can read more than one great book about this horrific battle.
Even though there were tons of military personnel from both sides to keep straight in this book, the author did a great job of helping the reader with that. If you like WWII history, this is a great book!
A very detailed account of the Battle of Stalingrad.
I've always heard that this battle was the turning point of the war but knew very little about it.
Now I feel like I have a decent comprehension of what happened (only because it was hard for me to keep track of everything, not for lack of information included).Although it is an interesting book it was so difficult for me to get through this book.
It was very difficult for me to keep track of the names and places.
I wish there was an extensive glossary of names and places as well as more maps.
This is a book that stays with you, making you remember the brutality of war. Whether you were German, you were sorrily sacrificed, or Russian you were driven to be sacrificed. The body counts and politics play off each other to show how decisions made behind the lines affect the men and women at the front. And in Russia the front was everywhere. And the movie of the same name, while very focussed, intense and realistic, it does only have to do with a small portion of the book.
This isn’t the first book I’ve read about the Battle of Stalingrad and it won’t be the last. This wasn’t the best book about the Battle of Stalingrad, and it wasn’t the worst. I probably learned a few new things and some of the personal stories, while slightly choppy, did add a perspective. I still get lost with some of the more military terms (how big is a battalion?), this is a decent read for anyone interested in WWII, written by an American but not about any American theater of war.
Living in Ukraine has given me an interest to read more about the Eastern Europe history. I feel like I know almost every inch of Stalingrad (Volograd now). I can't believe the audacity of Hitler and how blindly people followed the little corporal. Stalin was not saint either. The book was about as realistic as I would care to read about the horrors of war.
This was the first book I've read on the Eastern Front, and it was definitely a good one. The book presents a palpable view of the carnage and tragedy that occurred during the Battle for Stalingrad. It covers experiences ranging from German privates to Soviet generals to civilians and everyone in between. While this book has numerous positives, it's biggest detraction is the lack of maps.
