https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60707.A_Month_in_the_Country
"But then, inevitably, as happens to most of us, first through Saturday umpiring, later Sunday chapel, I was drawn into the changing picture of Oxgodby itself.
For a time."Tom Birken is summoned to the countryside from the teaming streets of London to practice his craft revealing a Medieval painting that was originally painted 500 years previously, and had been whitewashed over about a hundred years later.
"Carr died in 1994 and his funeral service in the Kettering parish church was, in the words of Byron Rogers, 'like the passing of a spymaster.' He had such disparate interests that there seem to have been many J.
Using stunning prose combined with well developed characters, Carr's novella is perfect for a leisurely summer morning.
It is through his and Alice's non relationship that allows Birkin to assess his own life situation.
Carr develops characters in Birkin and Moon who are non believers yet are employed by a church.
Carr's story is indeed appropriate for a lazy summer morning.
A Month in the Country is a relaxing novella with strong characters for a summer day, and, like Birkin, when I was finished reading it, it was time to get on with my everyday life.
Tom Birkin is hired to reveal and restore a Medieval church mural, covered up over four-hundred years earlier.
How, in 1920, a penniless survivor of shell-shock, whose wife has gone, finds peace and contentment in the ordinary.Yes, it describes a single month, with little backstory, even less afterstory, and not much happening, but Birkin emerges from Oxgodby changed for the better, and so did I, a little.
Employed to recover a concealed medieval painting on the wall of the local church, Thomas believes that a change of scenery will soothe the scars the bloodbath of war and a shattered marriage have imprinted on him.
The fallen man of the mural painting couldn’t have imagined that a fellow artist would recover his masterpiece, lost to the world under whitewash for more than five centuries.
Thomas Birkin never envisioned being haunted by happiness fifty years after a life-altering moment that presented itself wrapped in balustrades of washed-out color.
This will likely enter the list of my all-time favorite books.
(p42)I've experienced such moments but never seen it written so.And a longer evocation of the land he was coming to love:There was so much time that marvelous summer.
(p 61)Simply put, this book has given me all I look for: a cascade of words that ring so true and are beautifully written; wonderfully realised characters even though we know them so briefly; a perfect setting (especially for an Anglophile who loves art and archaeology); and a simple story about complex people.I would rated this more than 5 if I could.
And although it was a slow reveal, within the first few pages I saw many more signs of promise, a little brush stroke here so that a particular character came into better focus, a little sketch there so that I gained a clearer idea of the background, a little foreshadowing so that I could make a stab at guessing the main theme, a little mystery so that I knew there remained riches yet to be discovered.As I read on, my first impressions took definite shape and I was able to admire the craft with which the story unfolded.
Unconditional love was being hatched in my heart.Those moments are the jewels of life.J.L. Carr's novella explores such perfect times, through the character of Tom Birkin.
As he uncovers the painting, he is also uncovering the masterpiece of his self, his wonder at the world and whatever lies ahead.I had a feeling of immense content and, if I thought at all, it was that I'd like this to go on and on, no-one going, no-one coming, autumn and winter always loitering around the corner, the summer's ripeness lasting forever, nothing disturbing the even tenor of my way.The story is bittersweet though, and as much as my heart swells, it is also anguished.
But, the older Birkin is aware that perfect moments can stretch into an imperfect life.
'You're happy, Mr Birkin.
You're not on edge any more.
Is it because the work is going well?
Of course, she was right.
Anyway, partly right.
And to the south and north of the Vale, low hills, frontiers of a mysterious country...Beautifully written, poetic small story....
Slow start though, the story has to grow on you.A damaged survivor of the 1st World War, Tom Birkin finds refuge in the village church of Oxgodby where he is to spend the summer uncovering a huge medieval wall painting.
And gradually he finds himself again....
We went away together for a couple of weekends, and talked about past relationships; and most evenings in Ecuador ended with us on our balcony as the sun came up, finishing a bottle of rum and sharing stories.
You worry a lot about situations like that when you're in them, and then later you realize that you were worrying about exactly the wrong aspects of them.I have no room left to actually review this book, except to say that the situation I'm badly describing is one that novelists don't often try to address, preferring as they do to deal with actual, rather than potential, love affairs.
(*)There is an art in trying to uncover what time hides.
And the uncovering itself is also a process of multiple restorations, of bringing back to life, of claiming back from the past what could be foregone: beauty, suffering, happiness, fear, life, death, and hope.
One goes and the other one arrives.Images can be projected and recollections can be written.A calendar of memory can be read like a book.
Nature in its periodic seasons reanimates the life in us, the past and future life.
I admit that the subject was not of interest to me, life in the country does not feel too enticing.
Actually, three stars is the highest rating I gave to a novel about country life.
The setting was idyllic, rolling hills, sheep, a nice little church with a hidden painting waiting to be revealed by our main character.
The people were all so nice, some had a bit of mystery around them which could have been more explored, in my opinion.
A bit of unexpressed illicit love.
A nice little novel to fill an afternoon tucked cozily in an armchair, watching out the window how the flower blossom.
What does it take to be happy?
First of all it takes tranquility.
And so often the happiest days of our life are those when nothing crucial happened.So a month in the country was a real treat to the protagonist and A Month in the Country is a real treat to a reader…Well, we all see things with different eyes, and it gets you nowhere hoping that even one in a thousand will see things your way.The novel is also a deepest contemplation on the nature of art and history and the harmony of life…We can ask and ask but we can't have again what once seemed ours for ever – the way things looked, that church alone in the fields, a bed on a belfry floor, a remembered voice, a loved face.
They've gone and you can only wait for the pain to pass.Human kindness is the best cure for loneliness and melancholy.
Instead the narrator is a bantering almost Jack-the laddish character who refers to his backside as his bum and imagines the vicar and his wife having sex.
The narrator is a shellshocked World War One veteran who is hired to restore a fresco in a church that has mysteriously been painted over.
And instead of the fresco the focus of the novel turned to the narrator’s crush on the vicar’s wife.
Especially when we’re introduced to another potential love interest who, it turns out, will make one appearance in the narrative and then vanish.
When The Mookse and the Gripes group decided to revisit the 1980 Booker shortlist, this was the book I most looked forward to reading, and it did not disappoint, except that it was over too soon.The narrator is Tom Birkin, who is looking back after many years to his first summer of work after returning from the Great War. He arrives in Oxgodby, a small village in Yorkshire, because a bequest to the local church has stipulated that a medieval wall painting should be uncovered and he has accepted the commission.
According to Michael Holroyd’s introduction to the NYRB Classics edition, this wouldn’t have affected Carr one way or the other; he was in Holroyd’s words “an outsider, a man of integrity, who wrote from his sense of privacy.”In Carr’s forward, he tells us my idea was to write an easy-going story, a rural idyll along the lines of Thomas Hardy’s Under the Greenwood Tree.
And … I wanted its narrator to look back regretfully across forty or fifty years but, recalling a time irrecoverably lost, still feel a tug at the heart.Tom Birkin is a young man from the London area who has served an apprenticeship in the craft (and art) of restoring wall paintings in old churches.
He had little else to lose when he left for the northern village where the church is located.
While cleaning up the painting, he intensely experiences the joy and sorrows of the original artist, as though they were communicating across the centuries, even discovering how the unknown master died so many centuries ago.
His discoveries of the community, of himself, his new friends, during his month-long stay in the village, enables him to walk away and recover from his own emotional wasteland.The protagonist is intense in everything he does, think, and experience.
It is simply just a great book to read.
Living in the bell tower, surrounded by the resplendent countryside of high summer, and laboring each day to uncover an anonymous painter's depiction of the apocalypse, Birkin finds that he himself has been restored to a new, and hopeful, attachment to life.
Most of us come back from the vault with tatters and shreds; Carr, and others like him, come back with precious parures that flash a dazzle upon us commoners.The genius of this short novel, under 50,000 words, is that it doesn't tart up the glory of the images with overwrought settings.
But no: James Lloyd Carr was only three when war broke out; this novella, though clearly based on some of his real-life experiences, is an extraordinary feat of imagining himself back to an earlier time.Tom Birkin is a veteran of Passchendaele in WW1, and further reeling from his wife's desertion; a nervous twitch disfigures one side of his face.
Another visitor is the young daughter of the stationmaster, who involves Tom in the Sunday life of her father's Wesleyan chapel, which he finds more to his secular taste than the services in the dusty church.If Birkin was not always an unbeliever, his experiences in the Flanders mud have made him so.
Carr said he wanted the effect to be something like Hardy’s Under the Greenwood Tree in relation to the local characters.The novella is beautifully written.
It feels a little like Cider with Rosie; the end of an age.
The remoteness of the village means there is a lag with the changes taking place in society.
It feels like the end of something and Birkin feels that as well.
There is potential for Birkin to have a relationship, but that would have spoilt the subtlety of the whole thing.
Also, I believe that many writers who actually WROTE in the 1920s had a more modern voice and a more progressive feel than Mr. Carr did, writing this as a reflective novel, 60 years later.
I felt that Tom, as a character, goes nowhere, really, and even though nature and community and art help him to lose his post-war stammer and tic, when his story ends in autumn, it looks surprisingly similar to what it looked like in spring.There are some sad lines here, about what Tom thinks God looks like in the small town where he's working: “uncompromising.
Haunted by the Happiness of Halcyon Days, Waiting for the Pain to Pass"Now for a breath I tarry,Nor yet disperse apart--Take my hand quick and tell me,What have you in your heart."A.E. Housman, quoted in epigraph to A Month in the CountryAn extraordinary, heart-rending novel, written as a sort of twilight benediction to a pastoral place, time and people.
I have never read anything quite like this before. It was such a simple book, a simple story, yet so intrinsically beautiful that it almost moved me to tears. The story of a young man, bruised and emotionally battered from WW1 finding his way in the small village of Oxgodby is something to treasure. The people he meets, the things he sees and the lasting memories of one single month are just breath-taking. It feels completely immoral to actually rate this title, but I will give it the highest possible score anyhow.
The descriptions in 'A Month in the Country' do not draw particular attention to ambient sounds or noise (it is in any case a consistently subtle book in which everything occurs with a minimum of fuss), but I suspect that one of the major comforts of Tom Birkin's time in Oxgodby, and one of the reasons he is content for the work of restoration to take longer than he had intended, is that the rich, enveloping quite of the church - birdsong outside; the rhythmic tapping of his tools; the barely discernible sound of Moon digging - is a startling contrast to the uproar of war which assailed his ears so recently.That work of restoration is, of course, personal as well as practical.
They’ve gone and you can only wait for the pain to pass.An England that no longer exists - the dying embers of the horse age, Europe devastated by the First World War, and the annihilation of several generations of men.In a small Yorkshire church, a medieval mural has been discovered under layers of dirt and whitewash.
His experiences in the war left their mark - physically and mentally (how could they not?) - but he has been told that time is the only thing that will help to mend both the visible and invisible wounds.
Birkin, a World War I veteran, has been hired to remove layers of whitewash and grime from a religious mural in a village church.
Another war veteran, Charles Moon, was employed by a prominent family to find the tomb of an ancestor in the graveyard near the church.
As Birkin uncovers the mural of the Last Judgement and contemplates hell, he thinks back to Passchendaele--hell on earth.The enjoyment of his work, the acceptance of the village families, the friendship of Moon, the natural beauty of North Yorkshire, and the love he feels for the vicar's wife all bring Birkin a feeling of happiness.
This short book packs so much in: love, loss, social history, the way the past impinges on the present, ageing, war, nature, relationships, spirituality, religion, pain, healing, happiness, and disappointment.
Beyond that, the less you know about this book the better, suffice it to say it's a masterpiece and you should read it.We can ask and ask but we can't have again what once seemed ours for ever - the way things looked, that church alone in the fields, a bed on a belfry floor, a remembered voice, the touch of a hand, a loved face.
Other reviews here have told the story of Tom Birkin and his narration of the months he spent in Oxgodby recovering from his experiences in the Great War and the breakup of his marriage.
Tom Birkin has one great regret from the time he spent there.
I imagine that all of us have at least one great regret from some time in our lives.
I won't ask for any more from a book.I'd be remiss if I didn't comment on Michael Holroyd's introduction to the NYRB edition of A Month in the Country.
The rest of the introduction (especially the ending) lives up to its beginning.
We strive for happiness without really understanding what will make us happy.
In A Month in the Country, Tom Birkin looks back to an earlier time with both longing and regret.
He warns us that life is fleeting, and instructs us to "snatch at happiness as it flies".
How can we seize that which we cannot see until it's too late?A Month in the Country is barely a story.
It is instead a study of mortality, a reflection on the transience of life, the indelible impact of our actions within our lifetime, and the irrelevance of these questions in the long march of time.
Tom Birkin looks back on his life.He spends one summer after the war in Oxgodby uncovering a huge me
He was excited by the prospect of uncovering and restoring a recently discovered medieval wall-painting in the village church.
From the window, he beheld "the hills heaving like the back of some great sea-creature, dark woods washing down its sides into the Vale." There was an atmospheric beauty to the writing and humor in Birkin's observations of what was to be his home for a month in the country.
The hospitality of the village folks, Birkin's reluctant involvement in church life, often recounted with hilarity, made for delightful reading.
