https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1558779.Panzer_Battles
On page 101, we read concerning the Gazala battles that "The British armor had suffered heavily--once again their command failed to coordinate the tank brigades." (Once again, we read that the Germans had inadequate supplies to exploit their advantage--the second lesson) With regard to the eastern front, we read: "The fighting on the Chir river was made easier by the methods adopted by the command of the Russian Fifth Tank Army.
He feels he should hold his head up proudly to have done an honorable job as a German officer.
If it's true he never knew about Nazi atrocities until after the war (as seems to be the case of the vast majority of German personal narratives from WWII), he must certainly understand from what he learned later that rather than asking the question "could we have won?" he should have asked "should we have won?"Mellenthin, to my eyes, is that most dangerous of patriots: the man who says "my country, right or wrong".
If you want understand how WWII was fought in Africa & Europe with combined arms and specifically armor you must read this book.
He understood the high-level strategic command.He understood the field tactics.He took orders from and consulted with some of the most famous German commanders.Nothing really tells the story of the German thought process in WWII better than when he was always talking strategy and conducting the 'business of war' in Poland, France, and Africa, but upon arrival to Russia he learned to operate a tank & practiced basic marksmanship with a rifle.
An excellent, well-written account of the Second World War by an officer of the German General Staff who served on several different fronts & under several different legendary commanders during the course of the war. I found this book fascinating, and if I were an Armor-branch officer, and therefore likely to serve in the same types of roles as the author, I would make a point of trying to read it every other year or so.
I found the German perspective of the war in North Africa to be enlightening. Mellenthin was there and tells it how it was in the desert much as Speer does in "Inside the Third Reich".
Panzer Battles is a great account of tank warfare during WW2.
This portion of the book is "bracketed" by coverage of campaigns that von Mellenthin reports on rather poorly.
In the fashion of "this unit moved here and that unit moved there." This is a bit surprising as the final portions of the book do relate his personal experience against the Americans in Lorraine, but von Mellenthin seem reluctant to go into details about his actions against his eventual captures.Of particular oddness is von Mellenthin's focus on the Soviet menace as he obviously feels an important aspect of his work is to prepare the Western democracies to face the Soviets in World War III.All this having been said, when von Mellenthin's account shines, it shines brightly.
I just wish he'd focused more tightly on the campaigns he was willing / able to discuss from personal experience.
Very good book on a tactical strategy point of view. Written by a German officer who participated in all the various campaigns throughout the book... very interesting from a german army point of view.
Offers an excellent insight into warfare on the eastern front. Good analysis of manoeuvre warfare, although the author is a little one sided in his views and glosses over mistakes made by German commanders.
Most modern tank battles have been decidedly one-sided so I went looking farther back to World War II, with a particular interest for armored war in the vast spaces of north Africa and the Russian steppe.This book did not disappoint, in fact it was all that I could hope for in a paperback.
He had direct contact with some of the preeminent military minds of the German army at the time and went into considerable detail about what was done "right", what was done "wrong" and how the unexpected surprises in war can shift the progression of a battle.I found the discussion on armored tactics to be skillfully woven into the overall conversation the author was having.
His discourses on combined arms and the methods of German success using it under various conditions are of good use to any student of modern warfare, and the evolution of our own military doctrines can be easily seen to originate in the lessons learned by the Germans.The author's final chapter where he reflects on the war following his time in imprisonment and the many personal conversations he was able to have with various high-ranking German military and government officials was enlightening.The maps included with the text were helpful in their frequency, but not in their execution.
If ever you find yourself in a Panzer (or any tank) this is the book you need with you!Joking aside its a fantastic 1st hand account of battle field tactics on all fronts during the 2nd world war excluding Italy.
Also how each campaign was lost due to the Allies eventually emulating and improving on the German model of tank warfare along with the eventual exhausting of supply lines and material towards the end of the war.What sets this apart it is a soldiers view of the war .
This is a much better operational and tactical analysis of the German way of war than Guderian's work, and Mellenthin is a good writer, which makes this book exciting, something unexpected in an operational study. He participated in most of the major campaigns of the war, and looks beyond the political influences to strengths and weaknesses in tactics and logistics. This was a fascinating look inside the decision making and execution process of the German army, and is a good foundation for further study.
This was an excellent book on World War 2 strategy. Von Mellenthin is an engaging writer who very clearly tells the story from someone who lived on the front lines and fully understood the operational end of the war. It also illustrates how, even in this war, the average soldier was far removed from the politics of the day and just doing his duty.Was also very interesting to read about how Adolf Hitler, in the end, really defeated himself. Reminds me of another would-be dictator I know.Let us never forget the past....
This was one of the first books on WW2 that I read. years later I read it a second time and found it to be just as intriguing. it is from the perspective of one General, so you gain individual insights, which does provide a one sided view. But if you want to have a better understanding of warfare in the desert and Eastern Front in WW2, thus is a great place to start.
Great to read a first person account of many of these battles and the military/political intrigue behind the scenes - but towards the end of the book, I felt his bias coming through from being so close to the events. Still, you don't often get a narrative from such a senior officer at the frontline.
Great tactical overview of the use of tanks and mobile infantry forces during WWII on the Eastern Front. Too many contemporary Western historians overlook the massive battles waged in the Russian Steppe, which provided the nucleus for subsequent US armour theory in the postwar world. Great technical read, if you're into this kind of thing.
Autobiography of WWII experience. He fought in France, Africa, Russia and the Western Front at the end. Excellent tactical observations. Very much in favor of old-style German officer corps, but has telling opinions on the tactics of all sides. Well worth reading for a wargamer interested in small unit engagements, as well as some overall strategy. Afrika Korps the best part.
I loved reading this book! It is hard to put down! One has to recall that it was written in the 50s, after Korea and way before the "Ultra" revelation, so it spends a lot of time discussing Soviet intentions in Europe. And the man clearly is trying to distance himself from atrocities. But to get a real sense of how Heer tactics in WWII- this is a must read!
No-holds-barred, gnostic commentary covering both Ost and Westfronts, including some excellent commentary on both of Churchill's WW histories ( The World Crisis and  The Second World War).
Memoir of one of Rommels closest generals. Pretty good German account of the North African desert armor warfare of WWII.
vivid experiences
Very interesting Book. Excellent discussion of the advantages and disadvantages of Panzer strategy as the ground war played out.
One of the best books on military history. A must for those interested in the martial aspect of the Second World War, particularly the Western Theater.
pz battles is a must read book. it goes into fine detail about combined arms in africa and russia. in north africa it would say how with arty. at. and pz 3 they would beat more numerous grants.
Excellent! 5 stars!!!
I just finished re-reading this...
Nice insight of the German view of the Panzer offensives and mistakes. Nice personal view of the war as well.
A German officer's view of the tank battles of WWII.
