https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50186.Novels_and_Stories_1920_1922
I picked this up to read the short story "Curious Case of Benjamin Button" as I am interested in the movie. I plan to read the other stories also.
This book consists of several collections of short stories by Fitzgerald, namely ‘Flappers and Philosophers’ (1920), ‘Tales of the Jazz Age’ (1922), ‘All the Sad Young Men’ (1926), ‘Taps at Reveille’ (1935) and uncollected stories.As with all short stories, some are hugely enjoyable and others less so.
I prefer novels, where I can really get to know a character, but as short story writers go, Fitzgerald is up there with the best of them.
Mainly, just finished a reading of "Tales of the Jazz Age," and found them so interesting in a wartime-and-depression-era- time-sharing way. Scott Fitzgerald writes one liners that will make you stop and shake your head with the startling beauty they evoke. Please, find a volume or an ebook of these "Tales.." and read at least one for a Summer evening you can always remember. I recommend "Jellybean.." with a tall glass of lemonade w/mint.
Anthony was glad he wasn't going home to work on his book.
Out of the deep sophistication of Anthony an understanding formed, nothing atavistic or obscure, indeed scarcely physical at all, an understanding remembered from the romancing of many generations of minds that as she talked and caught his eyes and turned her lovely head, she moved him as he had never been moved before.
I felt like I was supposed to know Amory a lot better than I felt I did by the end of the novel.
I also felt like he just needed to grow up and move on with life, instead of roaming around looking for the next best thing or drinking himself into a stupor because of Rosalind.
But, I'm also not sure if I was supposed to like Amory.
However, I suppose for a first novel and one that's accepted as experimental, maybe I shouldn't be so harsh on Fitzgerald.
I think I mostly just felt like the story didn't go much of anywhere.
He still doesn't really know himself, even though he thinks he does.
I am really very fascinated with this author.
I am intrigued by the life he led and I feel compelled to read his stories.
However, I tend to hit a wall when reading his fiction.
While I am thoroughly engrossed in his narratives, I find myself offended and disgusted by the characters and I end up abandoning the book.
And yet, I keep coming back for more...I did read "Flappers and Philosophers" in it's entirety.
I cannot say the same for "This Side of Paradise" or "The Beautiful and the Damned" though.
I will get around to reading them after I finish Zelda's bio.
Only read "This Side of Paradise" which was part of the collection, but after reading this, I want to read the rest of the collection eventually. 6/8/10 - want to reread This Side of Paradise for better understanding.
First time to read his short stories and I particularly enjoyed them. F. Scott has a way of writing which brings realistic characters to life, and paints them into vivid scenes which transport you back to the 20's and 30's.
I checked this out from the library so that I could read "The Curious Case of Benjamin Button." The short story was almost as depressing as the movie. I tried reading some of the other stories in the collection, but I had a hard time getting into them.
Great writing, 'thou you can tell it's before his mature work. The ending was kind of jagged, but kind of funny, too unintentionally funny for a tragedy.
See my reviews for the individual novels and collections of stories contained in this volume.
THis collection includes "The Curius Case of Benjamin Button" don't know if I'll read the whole book or not.
Really enjoying it have to keep remembering Scott Fitzgerald was really only a boy writing these stories absolutley no Maturity always lived for the moment like many of his characters.
i want to read this.
Flappers and Philosophers - 07.23.11Tales of the Jazz Age - 01.08.12
A Great book. Library of America needs to continue on with compiling Fitzgerald's writing.
This a placeholder for the Project Gutenburg PDF of "The Beautiful and the Damned." God these characters are obnoxious!
I like Fitzgerald's short stories, even if he didn't think so highly of some of them himself. Charming and escapist, 1920s decadence at its best, with a few heart felt moments in between.
F. Scott Fitzgerald's short stories don't always have the happiest endings, but they are all consistently satisfying.
