https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/122781.A_Walk_Across_America
So when i was at the Anchor Archive in Halifax this Fall, I was poring over old National Geogrpahics and found this article about a young man in the 1970's who decides to walk across the USA with his trusty dog Cooper, his "forever friend." A few things that really caught my eye were that he spent some time at The Farm in Tennessee (of the New Farm Cookbook fame) and that he, a white dude, lived with a black family in rural Tennessee for several months.
A good story, it kept my attention, even if the way it was written was at times annoying...
The cameo stories within each chapter regaling communities, and cities, and towns and experiences along the way, from New York to Louisiana, gave me a sense of time, place, and culture in a broad sense.
The real jewels, though, that touched my heart deeply, and that of Jenkins too, were the stories featuring the wonderfully diverse people from all walks of life that he met and lived with along the way.
As is often the case with quests for truth, the reasons Jenkins chose to strike out across America transformed along the way.
(The sense I kept getting was that of reading a novel whose first-person narrator has, deliberately, not been given a slick way with words–because a slick narrator wouldn't work with this particular story.)Peter Jenkins, 22, raised in comfort in NYC-metro Connecticut, leaves the town where he has gone to college, with the idea of walking across America.
The story is earnest but moving; if it had been more wry or intellectual, it probably wouldn't work so well.
Like another successful travel book of a later generation—Eat, Pray, Love—A Walk Across America is an old-fashioned spiritual memoir dressed up as an individualistic modern quest.It also reads like a portrait of an America on the brink.
Chronicle of a 1973-1975 walk from New York to New Orleans.
For the entire trip (west), you have to buy the sequel.
Check your local library or buy from the quarter bin at a flea market.
Don’t even get me started on the dog.Here is what one reviewer said (I laugh and agree): “Guy walks across America, meets girl and God on the way, marries girl in the end.
Guy and girl walk across America again (The Walk West), meet with God constantly, make children and write about Him. Today, guy and girl write separately and are divorced and have since remarried.
Interesting characters like Homer the mountain man really enrich the book and remind you that the United States is an endlessly fascinating country, and Jenkins's time living with a black family and his willingness to work at a sawmill and as a tree surgeon give him rich experiences to talk about.
Jenkins closes his book with a major religious conversion and with the story of meeting his second wife (by the time he wrote Looking for Alaska he was married to someone else).
Love this story. The writing is passable, by which I mean that sometimes I cringe at the style, but am enough engaged in the drama and the cast of characters that I forgive it happily.

Had me contemplating what I wanna do with my life. Also restored my faith in people. Prejudice will always be part of society, but there will always be those few who turn those prejudices a full 180 degrees.
In a chapter mischievously titled "A Thousand Miles of Conventional Sentiment," she writes, "By the time Peter Jenkins set out to walk more than 3000 miles across the US in 1973 (with Nat Geo sponsorship), the cross-country expedition had become a kind of rite of passage of American manhood, though by that time the means were more often vehicular.
...Jenkins set out to have social encounters, the America he was looking for was, unlike Muir's, made up of people rather than places.
This book is very good because it has the mood of being free in the woods, which is every person's dream at one point or another.
The notion if being lost is impossible if you don't have a return point like Jenkins.
Jenkins shows his love for his dog after its death in, "Right now I really didn't care if I ended up with my own blanket of dirt since it would mean he and I could be together again" (212).
This book was written the year I was born and I remember a copy of my family bookshelf while growing up, but hadn't read it until my book club chose it.I hate spoilers but I looked through the pictures at the beginning and saw the one of him burying his dog Cooper (wahhhhh) so I knew that was coming.
He wrote so flowery and over the top about the dog and I wondered how that would have changed if he would survived the whole trip.
We’re leaving in the morning to back country pack Yosemite for 2 weeks. Last time I read this book, I was 18 and working the Summer there at Curry Village. This time, I’m doing it with my man! So I’m bringing this book with me! See you all in a couple weeks while I unplug and enjoy one of our amazing National Parks!Be good. :-)
So intriguing and simply written. It was hopeful, on both individual and cultural levels. Even now, decades later, I found myself drawn into the communities and lives depicted. Just a great memoir and story.
This book was very good. It was a lot of fun to follow peter Jenkins on his journey across America. He provided great detail and literary devices to enhance the readers experience and make it feel like we were there with him. It's a great book if you enjoy adventures.
Loved the book. I walk to my future mother in laws house listened to it every day.
He decided that he and his dog, Cooper, would give the country and its people one last chance and walk their way across the United States.
The determining factor and what becomes of the young couple is reveled before the end of the story, but I will not describe it here.In the end, Peter tells us: "...I started out searchig for myself and my country and found both..." I have read and re-read this book many times over the last thirty years and each time I do, I come away feeling renewed, refreshed and fulfilled over what Jenkins ahs found and I am living vicariously.
Peter Jenkins should be thankful that the saying's true, otherwise I would have felt like I wasted a lot of time.His journey was interesting.
He met a lot of actual unique people.
There were times I really loved this book while reading it, followed by a lot of groans.Peter Jenkins sets off to walk across America (see title of book).
Not to give away spoilers, but if you're anything like me, where he ends the book will make you roll your eyes and think to yourself, "well, I guess that happened."Another thing that threw me off about this one was his storytelling.
It's interesting to read this now, in the year 2016, given the author's walk took place in 1973-1975, without the benefit of GPS, mobile phones, credit and debit cards, etc.
How much has changed since then, yet I suspect many of the places he visited and people he encountered might remain as similar.
In response to his disillusionment with America at the time, the author sets out to walk across America (well, in this book he walks from New York State to New Orleans), along the way hoping to get to know America and its people in a way that gives him hope for his country.
So, I decided to live through Peter Jenkins and his epic tale of his walk across America.
As a recent college graduate, Peter is a young man disillusioned with his country.
One would think he is getting paid $100 every time he uses the phrase "walk across America." That drove me crazy.
He also spends some time at a commune called "The Farm." In North Carolina he finds a close-knit black family who takes him in as one of their own.
Mary Elizabeth, Zack and family have a huge impact on Peter.
(I'm assuming the author is trying to capture local and individual lingual styles but when he writes the patriarch of a black family as saying things like "Das fo sho", etc, it just feels so inappropriate.
Like your bigoted old auntie who swears she isn't, talking about and mimicking other races and ethnicities.) And don't even get me started about him subjecting a dog to his forced homelessness, hunger and hardship.
He writes of the dog as if they're partners on the journey, taking turns breaking down an building each other up.
I love this book. I love the authentic voice of Peter Jenkins. He has amazing stories to tell, and the focus is less on writing style than content, which is one of my favorite things about this book. Jenkins shares his experience about learning of and loving his neighbors - all across America. This book makes me think of a word so often used in yoga practice - connectedness. We are all connected, and this book celebrates that. Of course the fact that Kenkins travels with his best, forever friend, Cooper, is a heartwarming plus.
I really liked this book, except that I had to read it on paper since I couldn't find it in electronic form 8-)It's one of those books that makes you realize there still are good people out there willing to help a stranger.
It is about events that took place starting in 1973 and ending in 1975.
In spite of it being a different era from today, I would like to hope that there still are good people in the country that would help a person like the people Peter Jenkins met on his trek.I won't tell you the ending, but I didn't see if coming.
Loved this book! I finished it in a day and even stayed up past my bedtime. What a great story, what a great adventure! These books, the good ones anyway, always make me want to go off on an adventure somewhere. I felt like I was there, transported back in time to an era before I was born, the country in turmoil... not dissimilar from what is happening here today, which is what drew me to read it in the first place. Apparently he wrote some other books; I will be looking for them!
Read this book over 20 years ago and it had a profound effect on me...I think it planted the seed to make my cross country move. Reading it again I realized that the writing may not be the greatest, but the story of a young man walking across the country with his big, beautiful dog still touched my heart.
Loved this book. Read it while I was deployed to the first Gulf War. Had delusions of following in Jenkin's footsteps when I came home, but managed only a couple of days bakcpacking. Still, great inspiration for anyone looking for answers to what comes next in life.
read this as a teenager (think it's the same book) and it really helped carve me into the quasi-hippie i am today...when the kids are older, we're getting a van, painting it with peace signs and setting off accross country to california...just for the experience...yeah,man....
Mr. Jenkins walked through my hometown (and wrote a chapter on it) on his trek then returned after his book was published to speak at a local church. He was a very nice young man and this is a fascinating snapshot of America in the 1970s.
I loved this book. It made me want to pack by bags and go.. I was in 9th grade when I read it, pretty much the worst year of my life. I wanted to run away and was so sad when the book ended. I started to read the next one but I just remember being disappointed and never finished it...
this is my second reading after about 20 years.
Some interesting experiences here, but the writing blows.
