https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50837.The_Menace_from_Earth
They're kind of an odd collection, but good.
Not as good as The Green Hills of Earth collection, although there are a few really good stories in this one."The Year of the Jackpot" is overshadowed now by Big Data, but still an interesting premise."By His Bootstraps" is too long, although that does help make the point.
It's short & makes a wonderful point."The Menace from Earth" features one of the neatest ideas in SF - humans wearing wings & flying on the moon.
Again, I don't think he gets it right, although the idea is kind of interesting.
This is one of Heinlein's few story story collections.
There are 8 short stories from the late 1940's and early 1950's.The stories vary in quality--the title story "The Meance From Earth" is actually not bad--the descrition above does not do it justice.It also contants two really good Heinlein short stories that are not well known, but are favorites of mine.
One is "The Year of the Jackpot" and the other is "Goldfish Bowl".I like Heinlein's early work much better than his later work.
If you have never read any of his short stories, this collection would be a good start--all the stories---though a bit dated in spots--are still quitte readable.
1943 Retro Hugo Finalist for Best Novelette“Goldfish Bowl” by Anson MacDonald (Robert A.
3.5 stars• Project Nightmare • (1953) • novelette (start at timestamp 05:59:15) The best defense is a good paranormal Cold War offense.
3.5 stars• Water Is for Washing • (1947) • short story (start at timestamp 06:48:25) 3 stars
A collection of short stories/novellas by Heinlein between 1941 and 1957 (two years before Starship Troopers and four years before Stranger in a Strange Land).The Year of the Jackpot - A mathematician studies minor peculiar events around the world and plots them to determine when the world will likely end.
Much of the story takes place in Bats' Cave, a massive dome in which people can wear special wings and fly around (much like a skating rink or swimming pool on Earth).
Scientists Eisenberg and Graves are sent to investigate two mysterious and massive pillars of water that have appeared near Hawaii.
I just don't think any Heinlein short is of the same caliber as Asimov's "Nightfall" or "The Dead Past" or Clarke's "The Star" or "The Billion Names of God." But--it surprised me just how enjoyable these were.
The story I remembered best--and still like the best, is the title story, "The Menace from Earth." It's quite light-hearted and there's a lot here to like.
"By His Bootstraps," a time-loop story, is another one I found very memorable--although I don't think on first read decades ago I hated Bob Wilson oh so much.
"The Year of the Jackpot" is quite unsettling and like many of Heinlein's stories, features a nice little twist.
"The Menace From Earth" is a collection of short stories from the 1940s and 1950s by science-fiction master Robert A.
Nevertheless, it's valuable to go back and read material from seminal SF writers like Heinlein (along with Isaac Asimov and Arthur C.
Clarke).One thing I'm struck by is the variety of story ideas represented in this collection.
Heinlein does a good job of asking "what-if," building an interesting scenario, and placing characters into it, confronted by a challenge.I think my favorite story from this collection is the title story, "The Menace From Earth," which imagines what things might be like for human colonists on the moon.
I love science fiction short story collections, and this collection from Heinlein is a great example of how early sci-fi writers really let their imaginations go - something that is lost in today's sci-fi I think.
Written from 1941-1957, it totally captures both the anxiety and possibilities of the era including the jargon and slang of the 1950's.
We have nuclear end of the world stories with Project Nightmare and The Year of the Jackpot.
Lastly we have the awesome sci-fi "what if" stories about traveling through space or aliens manipulating our world in ways we never thought possible.
8 short stories published in the pulps between 1941 and 1957 are found in this 1959 compilation from the grandmaster Robert A.
The quality of the individual stories varies, but the title story and 'By His Bootstraps' are worth the price of admission and show the imagination for which RAH is regarded as one of the all-time best SF authors.'The Year of the Jackpot', end of the world romance.
'By His Bootstraps', ingenious time travel yarn.
'Columbus Was a Dope', cute short.
'The Menace From Earth', amusing technological romance.
'SkyLift', straightforward rocket pilot tale.
'Water Is For Washing', future action tale.
This is the first R.A.Heinlein book I ever read, and I must say it was great.
Looking back some of the stories weren't nearly as good as some of his other works, but it will always hold a special place in my heart.
The book is a great read with lots of fun, charm, and memorable stories.There is an interesting story "Fish Bowl" which posses some interesting concepts of how we think about pets..
if you are looking for some fun, light, Scifi, check this one out for sure.
I re-read the title essay again today.
While the story is great either on paper or in traditional narration, I have a copy produced by The Atlanta Radio Theater Company that is my favorite.
It's a short but sweet example of Heinlein's amazing style...
and the end turns me into a great big crybaby.
:-)2012: This is actually the first of Heinlein's I made it through with Alex (6).
He was incredibly touched by the story.
Heinlein tends to have a vocabulary that is still just a little bit tough for him, but we got through this one and he loves the story.
There are two stories in this collection that have stuck with me since I was about ten: The Year of the Jackpot and The Menace from Earth.
I still reread them on occasion.
Jackpot is the scariest story I've ever read since it starts off as a tale about oddball happenings that seem statistically impossible, moves onto nuclear war and then to the sun going supernova.
'Menace' I always loved because as a geeky awkward girl that there it a future of being smart and striving for achievement would not preclude finding someone to love.
Classic YA before there was YA.
A collection of Heinlein's stories from the 1940's & 1950's which I read back in the early/mid 1960's. "By His Bootstraps" is the one I remember best, a time travel story with a seeming paradox.
A secret team of psi-enhanced people must use their telekinetic and clairvoyant abilities to prevent the bombs from exploding until they are found and disarmed.‘Water Is For Washing’ — a man with a phobia of water finds himself fleeing for his life when an earthquake allows the Pacific to flood an area of California which is below sea level.Despite the age of these stories, they all hold up reasonably well, with none being unreadable.
You have to allow for the attitudes prevalent at the time of writing, especially with regard to the female characters, but even here, ‘The Menace From Earth’ gives us an unusually-strong-for-the-time female protagonist.‘By His Bootstraps’ was an entertaining romp, despite the ending being obvious a mile off, and ‘Project Nightmare’ was a genuinely tense thriller.All in all, a decent Heinlein collection.
After the seriousness of the last couple of stories in the Future History timeline, this is a more light-hearted read as a young woman on the Luna colony struggles with the fact that a beautiful tourist from Earth seems to be trying to steal her boyfriend. it ends in a bit cheesy/cliche way, but as i said, it's a more comedic read compared to some of the other stories in this collection.
A collection of mixed entertainment quality. Some very good short stories on the whole but I found the final few to have perhaps aged badly, being far more relevant to the period they were written than 2019.
A bit less condescending toward the female heroine for the time period it was written. This book is more along the lines of a pre-teen love interest. It was just a brief foray into the world of romance for this author? I did like the glimpses of everyday life in a moon habitat.Have a GoodReads.
An OK short story collection with few interesting ideas. However, all that I will remember is how ridiculous women are portrayed in these stories.
Heinlein fan since 1964.
Wikipedia cites "Year of the Jackpot," the first story featured in The Menace from Earth, as the first usage of the word "geek" to mean someone with a specialized knowledge.
In reality, it only appear in the brief epithet, "The poor geek!" In context, the definition is hardly clear, given the older meaning of fool, freak, or weirdo.Though "Year of the Jackpot," is an interesting look at the possibilities statistics might offer on a truly grand scale, it very well might be the weak link in the collection.
I had previously read the title story in the collection The Past through Tomorrow and it stuck with me more than 20 years later: geeky girl who wants to be a spaceship designer and isn't spending all her time looking for a boyfriend.
Although the relationship issue does become part of the story, it doesn't have the focus on sexuality that Heinlein's later female characters have, but neither does it relegate girls/women to second place.
The end of the story comes out of nowhere, as if an editor gave a maximum word count and Heinlein tried to come up with a climax that wasn't due for at least another chapter.
In addition to the Luna City cycle stories, the collection contains several stand-alone stories, including some of Heinlein’s best known short fiction - “The Year of the Jackpot,” “By His Bootstraps,” and “Goldfish Bowl.” These stories, and the two lesser known tales “Water is for Washing” and “Project Nightmare” interestingly enough, do share a common theme of menace - from the sun, from the waters, from the skies, from the future, from other humans.
Rereading these short stories reminds me of Heinlein’s great versatility, and of how very good a writer he was, and how modern his work still feels today, despite his being in many ways a man of his time.
I have to round down on this 3.5 (☆ ☆ ☆) book of short stories.
I saw a paperback edition in my garage, dusted it off a little and read the back cover.
(One of the best stories in the collection)Of the 8 short stories I did like that one quite a bit.
Mr. H., is a good writer, so the reading is quick, even in the “not so hot” stories.Try it out if you're looking for a golden age collection or RAH short stories.
If you've NOT read his first novel, For Us The Living, you stand a good chance of enjoying this edition.
Hell, when it name-drops Sierra Madre my brain queued up NewVegas musicBy His Bootstraps - mobius strip of a time-paradox, we meet again!Columbus Was a Dope - the final paragraph is right up there with O.
Henry for the punchline!The Menace from Earth ah yes, the cover story.
was kinda hoping the finale would be the 2 girls getting together...
Surprisingly, the main chara is not only a girl but one studying/planning her future in STEM fieldsSky Lift - kinda meh, like "could have used another few weeks in development"Goldfish Bowl - um..
"By His Bootstraps"--A confusing tale about time travel, in which a man comes across three different versions of himself, all of whom travel through time, from the 1950's through thirty thousand years in the future, bumping heads and occasionally attempting to work together in order to get out."Columbus Was a Dope"--A couple guys discuss the possibility futility or usefulness of traveling to distant planets."The Menace from Earth"--The "menace" of the title is a hotshot society girl from Earth competing with a lunar tourist guide for the heart of her co-worker.
Heinlein is a short story about life on the moon.
It’s a typical story, a girl is friendly with a boy, but the boy falls for someone else.
Rather than trying to make the love story the strongest point, Heinlein once again transplants the typical story to the moon to explore the enviornment.
What’s interesting is it’s not dissimilar from what people do with wingsuits today.
It wasn’t the most amazing tale, but the journey once again was more important than the end point, and I’d gladly read the story again to enjoy Heinlein’s description of wingsuits alone.
As a collection of shorts from Heinlein's early years, The Menace from Earth offers a wide range of stories touching on space science fiction, natural disasters, nuclear destruction, and more.
Fans of deep space stories should love "Sky Lift," a short but interesting look at the possible consequences of long-term, high acceleration resulting from rapid space travel.
"Project Nightmare" offers a dark look at a possible Cold War nuclear attack (I could do without the ridiculous telekinetic powers though).
Only "The Year of the Jackpot" fails to impress as Heinlein attempts to explain human and natural phenomenon by statistics (incorrectly I may add).
Heinlein is a master of short fiction.
This collection is a little off the beaten Heinlein fan path in that it is not completely a Future History sequence collection.
A large portion of these stories stray very far indeed and in the process reveal an empathy that is far beyond the technical correctness of some of his harder science fiction, or as RAH preferred, speculative fiction.
Water is for Washing is brilliant in its depth.The collection is best read slowly, one story at a time.
Do not rush it, though definitely read each story in a single sitting.
Occasionally, classic sci-fi has me scrambling to check original publication dates to justify blatant and horrifying racism.
The appropriate date isn't an excuse, but it is a reason.For future reference (in order to qualify as a decent human being), if you're rapidly escaping imminent death from some ridiculous sci-fi threat and you stop to save a white child, you can't not stop to save the non-white child.
Insert racial slur here.
To be fair, the protagonist eventually saves the non-white child, but only after the white child talks him into it.
Racial slurs and general late-40s / early 50s sexism aside, these are mostly pretty good stories.
While I love Heinlein as a novelist, I find that his short stories are hit-or-miss.
This collection leads off with my favorite Heinlein short of all, The Year of the Jackpot.
It's exciting.
It's original.
And like all of Heinlein's best, it makes you think.
The namesake story is excellent as well: how many teens have not felt the angst of a loved one taken under the spell of a witch?
Except this teen's got class and character!The other stories, unfortunately, are mediocre at best.
While I recommend Menace for the two I mentioned, the reader will not lose much by skipping the majority of the book, alas.
Mostly depressing stuff, partly because this is around where the timeline reaches Scudder and the general decline of the US, even if most of the stories are apart from the main Future History. The brighter stuff stands out. The titular short would be great except that RAH can't write teenage girls at all. By His Bootstraps is another fine time-travel story. Project Nightmare maintains a really good tension. Columbus Was A Dope is short, direct, and good for a grin, if a bit too smug in its cleverness.
