https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18844.Flush
Flush absorbs the mood of his mistress and vice versa, establishing a chord of communication that transcends language, the laws of nature and Victorian rationality.Flush rises above the concept of the spoiled pet dog and loyal companion.
He becomes the recipient of Elizabeth’s states of mind and the mysterious accord between these opposed beings, woman and animal, which culminates, with Shakespearean satire galore, into a rarefied but incredibly honest account of the poetess’ life, internalized and intensified by his doggish observations.It’s impossible to read “Flush” and not imagine Virginia’s own dog laying drowsily under the shade of a pear tree in the exotic garden of the Woolfs’ summer residence in East Sussex, taking in all the aromas of flowers and plants, the sound of swarming bees and the sweet scent of figs about to burst out with ripeness and wonder which experiences, those of dog or man, are closer to artistic sensibilities.
Or rather Flush is a parody of a biography of an eminent Victorian.
But not just any dog, an Eminent Dog, the pure bred Cocker Spaniel belonging to another eminent Victorian, the poet Elizabeth Barrett who eventually married Eminent Victorian Robert Browning after they’d exchanged an entire volume of love letters; they then went to live in Italy, taking Flush along with them.
In his biography of his aunt, her nephew Quentin Bell, tells us: Flush is not so much a book by a dog lover as a book by someone who would love to be a dog.
This is the biography of a dog, a cocker spaniel named Flush who was owned by Elizabeth Barrett Browning. And through the eyes of Flush, and the writing of Virginia Woolf, we get a look at the life of the poetess herself. It's an interesting way to write about someone, but the talented pen of VW is up to the challenge.
It was a nice trifle, though missing some of the emotional engagement that comes from direct knowledge of the animal by the author.Flush was a cocker Spaniel who grew up in the country, and then was brought to the London household of Barrett.
Then with one bound Flush sprang to the sofa and laid himself to where he was to lie ever after—on the rug at Miss Barrett’s feet.In fact Elizabeth Barrett did have a cocker spaniel look:For source material, Woolf had Barrett’s references to Flush in her poems and letters.
2018Rereading Woolf's least know book. A biography English poet Elizabeth Barrett Browning's red cocker spaniel. Woolf does an excellent job of telling the story from the Flush's perspective. 2012A good story. We lost our rescued Doberman yesterday to heart failure so a dog book seemed in order.
Dogs are color blind.
We see her with Flush as a puppy and she as a frail Miss Barrett, living in a respectable street in London.We see Flush as an adult dog in Italy with her now called Mrs Browning.
This is what happened here, in Orlando, and in a third biography, Roger Fry's (a friend of hers).Woolf drew her material from two poems written by Barrett Browning about her dog and her letters between her and her husband.If you like dogs, Victorian era, and biographies this is for you.
No entanto, embora sem o arrebatamento dos anteriores, gostei deste livro; porque aprendi um pouco sobre a vida da poetisa Elizabeth Barrett Browning e me enterneci com a história de Flush, o cocker spaniel que a acompanhou nas fases mais importantes da sua vida.
Talvez mais ainda porque também eu, há muitos anos, tive a ventura de amar e ser amada por um cocker spaniel - uns seres maravilhosos, meigos, inteligentes e de uma dedicação sem limites aos seus donos - e esta leitura ofereceu-me a alegria de o recordar, embora com muita saudade.
This is one of my wife's favorite books.
Prior to having children, when we used to go used book shopping together, she would buy any copy of this she came across to gift to friends.
Up until now I'd never read it (in my defense, she's read almost none of my favorite books, and I've read many of hers through the years, and will continue to do so).Flush is a sweet little book, beautifully written, about Elizabeth Barrett Browning's dog Flush (and, in the margins, it is also about EBB).
Fluxo de consciência em versão canina, para ir entrando de mansinho na escrita de Virgínia Woolf, an

This is how Elizabeth Barrett Browning described her English cocker spaniel, Flush: "Like a lady's ringlets brown,Flow thy silken ears adown Either side demurely,Of thy silver-suited breastShining out from all the rest Of thy body purely.Darkly brown thy body is,Till the sunshine, striking this, Alchemize its dulness, —When the sleek curls manifoldFlash all over into gold, With a burnished fulness."You can read the whole poem here: http://www.poetryfoundation.org/poem/...Browning wrote a second poem about Flush that closes out the biography's final, touching scenes:"You see this dog.
It was but yesterdayI mused, forgetful of his presence here..."http://www.poets.org/poetsorg/poem/fl...
A pretty little novel, but no more.The form is poetic but the story remains flat, without bouncing. The idea of placing his autobiography through the life of his dog is not badly done, but it lacks some notes that would connect us to the reality of the facts. However, the methods of Virgina Woolf of foreignization used by are interesting, the vision of Flush on our world is quite captivating and it was in his eyes we find the beauty of the author's lyricism.
This concise biography of Elizabeth Barrett-Browning's spaniel is super charming, surprisingly dramatic, and beautifully crafted. For fans of "Orlando," this is wonderful in a similarly fantastical vein. It's mostly known as a trifle today, though for many readers it might serve as an ideal introduction to Virginia Woolf.
For instance, 1 So Mrs Browning every day, as she tossed off her Chianti and broke another orange from the branch, praised Italy and lamented poor, dull, damp, sunless, joyless, expensive, conventional England.
104)From the Extracts 1-5 above, we can see that they are all brilliantly typical Virginia Woolf, in other words, she herself has long been the pioneer in writing creatively as her own since I have never encountered such writing like this before.
Aquello que al principio parece ser la biografía del perro de la poeta Elizabeth Barrett Browning termina siendo su historia de vida, pero a través de los ojos del simpático animalito.
Por supuesto, el que siempre permanece fiel y olvida las peleas más rápido es el perro.Amé este libro por muchas razones.
La combinación de las vidas de la mascota y de su dueña me resultó subrepticia e interesante, al igual que la sensación de que Barrett Browning fue una mujer intensa, algo que me dejó con muchas ganas de leerla, a pesar de que en algunas ocasiones me cayó mal, como autora y como persona (refiriéndome a su correspondencia).
Kraliçe Victoria döneminin önemli şairlerinden Elizabeth Barrett'in hastalığı ve evinden kaçışında her zaman yanında olan, sahibine enteresan bir şekilde çok benzeyen ve onun can yoldaşı olmak kısa yaşamındaki tek isteği olan Cocker köpeği Flush'ın öyküsünü okuma şanşı elde ediyoruz bu kitapta.
Hem de bizzat Flush'ın bakış açısından.Bu kadar ince düşünülüp işlenmiş bir hikaye de ancak Virginia Woolf tarafından yazılabilirdi.
Çünkü küçük detayları tahammül edebileceğinden daha fazla görebilen bir yazardı.
Bundan daha büyük bir fedakarlık örneği var mıdır?Flush üzerinden modernliğin insanı nasıl doğadan uzaklaştırdığına da bir eleştiri getirilmiş.
Gibi sorgulamalarla yine yazarlığını konuşturmuş.Elizabeth Barrett'ı hastalığından kurtaran mücadeleci ve başı dik ruhu ve de aşk olmuş.
No me siento digno de reseñar un libro de Virginia Woolf, simplemente diré que la pluma de esta mujer cada vez me enamora más.
Flush – for those who don’t know – is a biography of Elizabeth Barrett Browning’s dog, a cocker spaniel that was her constant companion, both before and after her marriage to Robert Browning.
The book is a combination of fiction and non-fiction, through which we meet the two nineteenth century poets, revealing something of the early years of their marriage.Although it appears so much lighter in tone than many of her other works, Flush does in fact consider social inequalities and the way that society treated and classified its women.
Formos prasme "Flašas" - neabejotinai keisčiausia iš visų mano skaitytų biografijų. Dar neteko skaityti žmogaus biografijos, išreikštos per jo šunio gyvenimą. Tikrai netradicinis, bet pasiteisinęs sprendimas. Woolf rašo gerai, stilius lengvas ir paprastas, nors gal kiek jaučiamas potraukis padaugiažodžiauti ten kur tai daryti nebūtina. Puikiai perteikti vietovių aprašymai - Londono lūšnynai nemaloniai nuteikė net namie, kita vertus Italijos aprašymai grweitai pakėlė ūpą ir norą atostogauti. Bendrai paėmus, knyga - nieko stebuklingo, bet skaitosi visai gerai.
I just read a biography of a dog, that’s how much I love Virginia Woolf. (I’m in too deep, help)
DE/UA Die Biographie eines Hundes.
Und obwohl das Buch sich ziemlich langsam lesen ließ, hat es mir sehr gut gefallen.
Flush, Spaniel der berühmten Dichterin Mrs. Barrett Browning ist eine sehr interessante Figur.
Und was mir sehr gut gefallen hat, ist, dass wir über das Leben von Ms Barrett und später Mrs Browning durch das Prisma des Flushs Lebens erfahren.
Höchst originell und einfach nur entzückend!
Це виявилося дуже незвичним, проте захопливим читанням.
Флаш - кокер-спанієль відомої поетеси Елізабет Баррет Браунінґ - дуже цікавий головний герой.
Дуже мені сподобалося те, що ми дізнаємося про життя поетеси через призму життя Флаша.
Щойно-щойно дочитала. Книжка маленька, але йшла довго. Напевно, тому, що мені бракувало екшену. Пес народився - пес жив - пес помер. Передмова називається «(не просто) життя і мета собаки у Великобританії 30-х» – не вірте, люди, це не «не просто», це взагалі не то))Але я так різко почала з негативу, а що ж доброго?1) дуже гарне видання – в плані якісного перекладу без помилок і усяких «непозбувних бентег»;2) окреме «вау» обкладинці – делікатний чорно-білий малюнок, все так, як я люблю сама малювати🙂;3) читайте виноски внизу сторінок: там буває цікавіше, ніж основний сюжет)))Сподобається тим, хто любить «Маленьких жінок» Олкотт😉
Okuduğum ilk hayvan biyografisi ve ilk Woolf kitabıydı.
Як завжди у Вірджинії Вулф - тонко, іронічно, психологічно. Обкладинка укр.видання надзвичайно естетична та мінімалістична - Love!А от ложка дьогтю - це численні радикальні фемінітиви, якими рясно всіяна передмова...Теоретикиня, критикиня, членкиня...Ну для чого, невже вони додають жінкам більше прав чи свобод?
woolf uses this biography of flush (a dog, albeit an impressively complex & well-bred one!) as a vehicle for social commentary, gorgeous language exercises, psychological investigations, existential ramblings, & an indirect biography of said dog's mistress, who happens to be elizabeth barrett browning (I KNOW).
Yet it was in the world of smell that Flush mostly lived.
"Flush," Mrs. Browning wrote to her sister, "is wise." She was thinking perhaps of the Greek saying that happiness is only to be reached through suffering.
The most fun read I've had in a while, along with Wise Blood.This book is a whole universe of sensations being described by a master of poetic prose.
The owner being, of course, Elizabeth Barret Browning.However, and even though I understand what she's getting at, I think Woolf focuses too much on the social status of dogs--which really does not exist materially except in our minds.
Dogs have simple natures.
I feel I am no longer alone.My very own border collie, Krusty, held his head raised in the most supercilious and lordly pose while I was reading this, and I will happily show it to you.
A delightful read, I am forced to give it five stars. I love Virginia Woolf's writing style, I have always been fascinated by the story of Elizabeth Barret Browning, and I have absolutely fallen in love with this little dog. My heart was in my mouth reading of some of his misadventures.
Luego de terminar la lectura de este libro me aventuré con algunos de sus poemas, pero no me gustaron especialmente.Vamos por partes, por lo que se da a entender primero en la introducción y luego en el resto de la obra, Virginia escribe la historia de Elizabeth basándose en la correspondencia mantenida por esta a lo largo de su vida, en ciertos momentos se puede observar este hecho con más detalles al aparecer citas de algunas de sus cartas.
But when I discovered that she used it to portray life through the eyes of a dog, I was curious to read this.I found it on Project Gutenberg (free e-books online) last night and decided to preview it to see if I could get into the writing.
If you've ever wanted to read a short and sweet book from the perspective of a dog, look no further.I also really loved the settings.
Throughout his life he watches his owner, famed poetess Elizabeth Barrett Browning, go through different stages of life - when she falls in love, has a baby, etc.
