https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35805.The_Capture
Mum: How many stars would you give this?LRN: I think a solid five.
Mum: So what happens in this book?
Mum: So what else?LRN: Then he's taken off to St Aegolios, academy for orphaned owls.
One of them is Pelletireum, which is disgusting, actually.Mum: Why is it disgusting?LRN: They have to pick out bones and stuff from the pellets.
Owls actually yarp up stuff after they eat it.
It's called a pellet.Mum: Gross.LRN: Also, another part: he meets Gylfie while being taken to St Aegolios.
Mum: Who would you recommend this book to?LRN: Probably to my best friend Luke.
He loves to read chapter books.
My husband and I had just finished one of Kenneth Oppel's "Silverwing" books when we saw the trailer for this adorable and very cool-looking owl movie.
Parts of it reminded me of "The Golden Compass" and parts even brought to mind "1984" (yeah-scary!) Yeah, there are some adorable owls in this book, but there are also a lot of creepy and evil ones and they want to take over the world by brainwashing young owls.
However, the older cover, brown with the close-up of the owl face/eye, has really cute illustrations of the main owl characters inside the front and back cover, something the movie tie-in is sorely lacking.
به نظر میرسد ما با جزء نخست و مقدمهی یک داستان بزرگ روبرو هستیم. داستانی که زوایای آن کاملاً روشن میشود. بوفچههای گوناگون از قلمروها و نژادهای گوناگون جغدها دزدیده میشوند و نیز تخمهای جغدها. آکادمی سنت ایگی که تحت سلطهی اسکنچ، جغد شاخدار بزرگ است، مقصد این تخمها و بوفچههای ربوده شده است. آنها میخواهند بزرگترین سلطهی جغدها را تشکیل دهند و این راه نامشروع را در پیش گرفتهاند.اما سورن، بچهجغدی که از سوی برادرِ شرور و حسوش، در نبود والدینش، از آشیانه به بیرون پرت میشود، نقش اول داستان ما است که در آغ
آن‌ها می‌خواهند بزرگ‌ترین سلطه‌ی جغدها را تشکیل دهند و این راه نامشروع را در پیش گرفته‌اند.اما سورن، بچه‌جغدی که از سوی برادرِ شرور و حسوش، در نبود والدینش، از آشیانه به بیرون پرت می‌شود، نقش اول داستان ما است که در آغاز ماجرا با گیلفی، جغد جنی همراه می‌شود و در ادامه و در حوالی پایان داستان دو همراه دیگر نیز پیدا می‌کند تا با هم راهی درختِ افسانه‌ای شوند که می‌گویند جغدهای گاهول، شوالیه‌های افسانه‌ای جغدها، در آن زندگی می‌کردند.
I trudged through three volumes before I told my daughter that we needed to find something else to read.
The world building is inconsistent and poorly thought out.
If, in this post-human world, stone castles are little more than tumbled ruins, how would any barn have survived well enough for barn owls to associate themselves with them?
The inexplicable knowledge of the owls regarding human buildings is strange compared to their complete lack of knowledge of humans themselves.2.
These books could benefit from a glossary of terms and slang in the back of each.
Its about a barn owl called SOREN who gets kidnapped and gets taken to an orphanage.Then he meets a friend called GYLFIE.
In their memories they meet a fully mature owl who has pretended to be kidnapped to save baby egg owls.
HORTENSE, the mature owl sits at the highest point of the orphanage and rolls owl eggs to eagles.
The eagles take the eggs back to the owl kingdom where they will hatch and be safe.
But when HORTENSE gets caught and SOREN and GYLFIE decide to escape but the only problem is, they don't know how to fly!
Rather, it seems like a great way for kids to start thinking about ideas like good vs.
There is also a small amount of religious symbolism or allusion, enough to lend some grandeur to the tale but not so much as to spark that conversation unless an adult points it out.The friend who recommended these books to me said that they'd prompted her son into doing additional research about owls and that it's become a real area of interest for him.
But I did enjoy learning more about the various owl species in the book and was prompted to do some extra research to verify some of the information and see additional photos about these fascinating creatures.
So these series weren't like AMAZING but they were worth reading.
They actually made me come to have a love for owls and have a big owl fetish haha.
My point is who cares if it's a world of talking owls don't give weird looks.
I did like these series and see the main little owl Soren come out of his comfort zone and become a great warrior when fighting for his new friends and loved ones.
But if you like owls anyway then read these.
I picked this book, even though it is a children's novel because I saw a preview for the movie, Guardians of Ga'Hoole.
After getting past the reader's various owl voices, some of which are quite overdone, I really enjoyed the book.It truly is a social commentary on the world and the evil in it...and the good.
I know children in third, fourth, and fifth grade would love it and not be disturbed by it.
I love the times when, despite their obvious differences, the good owls band together, accepting the strengths of each of them and helping overcome the disabilities of each.
As the Mom of a seven year old girl, I struggle to find "appropriate" books for us to read together.
These books are typically for older kids, but I feel exposing her to ideas and words beyond her reading level can only do her good!
I worried, at times, when I was reading this book to her, that she didn't really understand what was happening.
I would finish the chapter and ask her if she still liked the book.
Well, I could actually ask for a book that I, as an adult, would enjoy at the same time.
Padahal ia masih memiliki orang dua dan dua saudara Di tempat itu juga terdapat ribuan anak Burung Hantu yang menjadi korban penculikan.Soren dilahirkan di Hutan Tyto, tempat tinggal Burung Hantu Barn yang selama ribuan tahun hidup dalam damai.
Sebuah pertanyaan berarti hukuman.Ternyata pertempuran merebutkan kekuasan serta upaya membuat dunia tempat tinggalnya damai tidak hanya urusan manusia namun juga urusan vampire,Manusia Serigala, pemyihir dan sekarang giliran Burung Hantu!
"Para pemainnya bukan hanya terbang, juga saat mereka berberlomba terbang, menyerang dan mengembangkan kemampuan mereka untuk pengalaman yang lebih mendalam di seluruh lingkungan yang indah yang digambarkan dalam permainan." Penasaran, apa dalam video game ini, kita akan menjadi seorang eh seekor burung hantu.
Tapi dalam mitologi Yunani, Athena digambarkan dengan simbol burung hantu yang melambangkan pengetahuan dan kebijaksanaan.
Mulai dari pencurian telur, penculikan anak-anak burung hantu sebagai tenaga kerja, cuci otak aka pembingungan, sampai usaha mempersenjatai diri dengan cakar-cakar perang.
Kalo ada ga jadi cerita niy buku :pSoren, seekor burung hantu barn yang bersahabat dengan Gylfie, seekor burung hantu peri, berhasil menyelamatkan diri dari pembingungan.
Berdua mereka berusaha melarikan diri dari cengkeraman St. Aegolius dan menyelamatkan kerajaan burung hantu.
dan ternyata di Indonesia juga ada lho, burung hantu seperti si Soren ini.
Yang menyebalkan dari buku ini adalah banyaknya typo.
Set in a fierce fantasy world where owls gather, battle and take to the sky, The Capture is drenched inimagination and natural wonders.
In anticipation of the upcoming movie based on Kathryn Lasky’s GUARDIANS OF GA’HOOLE series, Scholastic has re-released the first book in the series, The Capture.
The Capture is less intense than Watership Down in terms of both reading level and violence level, however, and would be suited for readers who might be too young for Adams’ book.Soren, our protagonist, is growing up in a loving, comfortable barn owl family.
There are a few deaths, but the details are mostly glossed over.Soren and Gylfie are inspired to heroism, in part, by the legends of Ga’Hoole, which are kind of like the owl equivalent of the Arthurian cycle.
This is series is one instance when I have no problem being a gushing lolly-daydream. It might also just be the root of my love affair with the avian section in the bloom of my youth. Blood-letting beaks and flesh-lacerating talons. [image error]Yes, it's scandalous. But the honest thing to do.
Sebelum mereka sampai pada tujuan itu, Soren dan kawan-kawannya berniat untuk terbang menuju tempat dimana Pohon Ga’Hoole Agung tumbuh, tempat dimana hidup sebuah Legenda tentang para kasatria burung hantu yang akan terbang setiap malam untuk melaksanakan tugas-tugas mulia untuk menjaga kerajaan burung hantu dari niat jahat musuh-musuh mereka.Sebagai kisah fantasi remaja, dengan bijak Kathyrn Lasky menyisipkan beberapa pelajaran moral bagi pembacanya, misalnya dalam hal toleransi, Lasky menghidupkan tokoh Mrs. P , seekor ular buta yang menjadi pelayan sarang burung hantu di keluarga Soren.
57% on the Neil Scale.
I loved the movie when I saw it, but the books had been on my to-be-read list for a long time.
In this case it was a great surprise how wonderful the books were and they are so different from the movie that they are almost separate entities.This is the story of the Owl kingdoms, and of the classic battle between good and evil.
They meet up with Twilight and Digger, two owls that could not be more different and yet they form a band and journey towards Ga'Hoole together to warn them of the evil growing at St. Aggies.The story was stunning, the characters amazing.
I was disappointed that the book didn't really complete the story, but that's the only real fault I found.
Perhaps more, because he usually won the contest of who got to read the next one by shutting himself in the bathroom or staying up all night.The author really did her research on owls.
So you know ahead,one story arc takes multiple books to complete, and each leads into the next, so don't buy just the first book or you'll go yeep.
Neither my son nor I was happy when we came to the end of book 5 and didn't have 6 on hand, which ends the first story arc.
I've been telling a young reader I will get to this; now that I have I wish I had done so sooner.
I guess I expected something more run-of-the-mill, where Lasky's easy-to-read page-turner, about an heroic owlet who stands up to systematic thought control, is really quite profound.
It makes me want to recommend 'Animal Farm' and 'Watership Down' to that young reader.
And to read the next in the series.
A couple of Lasky's insights:'…[T:]he sweetest taste in the world…was a question on the tongue.
You look for a new way and clear your mind of the old way.
You try to feel new things….'
Ένα συγκινητικό και πολύ τρυφερό βιβλίο. Ένα βιβλίο ταξίδι στην ενηλικίωση και στην συνειδητοποίηση ότι ότι και να γίνει πρέπει να έχεις πίστη, πίστη και ελπίδα ότι και στο χειρότερο σκοτάδι θα βρεις ανθρωπιά και καλοσύνη, μα κυρίως πίστη στον εαυτό σου. Όλοι μπορούν να πετάξουν αρκεί να το πιστεύουν. Μα κυρίως όλοι αξίζουν ελευθερία, ελευθερία να σκέφτονται, να επιλέγουν, να πράττουν και να ονειρεύονται..."Αυτό που άφηνε την πιο γλυκά γεύση στο στόμα ήταν η ερώτηση. Ένας κόσμος που ξεκινούσε με εκείνη την υπέροχη ορμή που άφηναν τα τι και τα πως και τα γιατί."(Η Αιχμαλωσία, Kathryn Lasky)
OH MY GOD I USED TO BE OBSESSED WITH THIS SERIES IN ELEMENTARY SCHOOL OHGODHF HOW DID I FORGET ABOUT THESE BOOKS
I really liked this book. I remember seeing the movie a long time ago. It is a good fantasy book to read if you like action and suspense.
The story begins with a little barn owl named Soren falling to the ground and being snatched up and taken from his family.
Will they become part of the legend or will they become heroes?Kathryn Lasky, the author of The Capture, was able to develop this story through character interaction, personality development and conflict, of course.
The author used Soren’s knowledge of the Ga’hoolian legends to help to save both Soren and Gylfie as shown on page 94 where he begins talking to Gylfie so that they do not fall asleep to not get moon blinked.
Grimble’s character became Soren and Gylfie accomplice and has a big part in their escape from Saint Aggies!
Definitely a great start to what is now a 13 book series (WOW, what have I gotten myself into?) and I can see that this series will be full of adventure.
I felt like the pacing was right on and definitely a great adventure that my students will be digging into.
I love the sense of adventure and I really couldn't put this down for long.Characters: Soren is a great main character.
I really loved how Gylfie used long vocabulary and really was not the typical owl either.
I was super into these books when I was 9 or 10 years old.
I remember really enjoying them, and feeling nostalgic I decided to reread the series.
Soren is great, he's not the most interesting character, but he's a sweetie.
I love everyone, except for Kludd and Otulissa- a stereotypical villain and stereotypical know-it-all, respectively.I also think a series that anthropomorphizes owls is really unique!
I've read fantasy series with cats (Warriors), with rodents (Redwall)- but owls?
But I'm only on the third book, so probably it will be answered.Tl;dr version- This is an adorable middle-grade fantasy series, and I think it's absolutely worth the read.
To be honest I didn’t think I would like this book but I did. I’ll read the other books in this series soon.
Reviewed by Joan Stradling for TeensReadToo.comBorn in the peaceful forest of Tyto, Soren the barn owl looks forward to a life of eating bugs and learning to fly, but evil forces have another plan for the owls.When Soren is captured and taken to a mysterious place known as St. Aegolius Academy for Orphaned Owls, he discovers the orphanage has a darker purpose.
With the help of his friend, Gylfie, they set out to uncover the truth and find a way to escape.Unfortunately, the only way out is up, and the young owls will have to learn to fly if they have a hope of escape.I first read THE CAPTURE many years ago and looked forward to reacquainting myself with the world of the owls.
There are a lot of potentially exciting events in this story, but the writing style is so amateur and flat that I was practically bored to tears reading this.
It was like she was trying to make a complex novel like Game of Thrones or something but over simplified it or didn't know how to correctly go about it.
I understand that this is supposed to be a children's novel, but I've read many children's novels that just completely drew me into the story.
The Borrowers did a great job of that for example.Game of Thrones meets The Little Engine That Could

Summary: Soren, a young barn owl, is thrust from his nest by his evil brother, Kludd.
Together the four owls determine to fight the evil of St Aggies.
They must find help at from the guardians of Ga’Hoole at the Great Ga’Hoole Tree,if indeed they are more than a legend.My Review:It is like the warrior cats books by Erin hunter by it's owls!
I love and adored this book!
If you like owls or the warrior cat books, even you will enjoy this book as much as i did!
