https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11433277-the-story-of-a-common-soldier-of-army-life-in-the-civil-war-1861-1865
I enjoyed this book from cover to cover. I have always been interested in the history of the Civil War and this writer made the whole thing "real" to me. Read it!
Intenerito è lo sguardo che Stillwell anziano rivolge al suo io giovane: come dirà in più occasioni, quello è stato uno dei periodi più felici della sua vita e sicuramente cova anche un po' di rimpianto per il giovane che era allora (ancorché non troppo aitante, visti i problemi di salute che per un bel po' lo affliggono).Sempre pacato, poco propenso alle lamentele e attento a considerare le situazioni sotto più punti di vista, ho iniziato a provare sempre più curiosità per un periodo di cui non so poi molto, tanto da segnare su una cartina il maggior numero di posti in cui è passato durante le varie fasi della guerra.Ottima la traduzione, che ha saputo rendere l'atmosfera del periodo.
This book is a fascinating, in-depth look into the life (as it states in the title) of a common soldier during the Civil War. Mr. Stillwell relates many stories of the 61st Illinois Infantry, including their parts in battles such as Little Rock and Murfreesboro, as well as little anecdotes as concerns the everyday life of a soldier at that time. This is a great read for anyone interested in the Civil War, in particular the Army of the Cumberland in relation to the rebellious South. Highly recommended.
Amazing Book!I absolutely loved this book.
The author is just awesome.
Walk through this book as he leads you to what the soldier actually endured..
Lord I hope we never see another one!.
I cannot believe how many of them actually fought in the Civil War!.
Then the War of 1812 I found that George Armistead, the Commander of Ft. McHenry was actually a distant cousin!.
He was my 9th cousin 2x removed.
Thank the Lord for this author.
Thanks for sharing your Army life!
A book of humble heroismAlthough I am personally a southerner, this book is a wonderful account of a Soldiers life despite the politics of the government. As a retired Soldier myself of 4 wars, it was interesting to see how little our lives have really changed thru the ages. Thoroughly enjoyed this book... even as a woman Soldier.
A very interesting account of a common soldier's experiences in the Civil War. Explains the training, modes of travel, diet, hardships, emotions and more of a Civil War soldier from the midwest. Helps me better understand what it was like for my great-great grandfather who served in the Civil War and was from the same area in Illinois as this author.
Nicely doneEnjoyed the facts of the war for this young man written in good fashion. No one knows the true exsistance of the weariness of war on ones soul, lest he be there.
I really enjoyed this book. It was fascinating to read a first-hand account of so many events I recognized. The individual perspective vs the historians perspective.
Worth your timeEnjoyed this - love history and since the author was in the Civil War, his writings tell the actual historical action. Recommend you read this one.
I've read a lot of books by soldiers recounting war, and there are only a limited few who can write about such things in an emotionally moving manner; and yet still -somehow- manage to write a book that is not only emotional, but somehow also a book which comforts the sad emotions felt.
It's a book of war, of course, and you go through the emotions with him; from the pride yet sadness of leaving his family, the homesickness that seems to overwhelm him at times, and the natural way we as souls find to try and save our sanity when in waiting and when it is too wet for exercise as it was in his location, This part of the book will always stand out to me.
Writing in the early twentieth century (during WWI, in fact), with a methodical and yet easygoing style, Leander Stillwell vividly recounts the story of his days as a "common soldier" during some of the most tumultuous years of nineteenth century American history.The pacing is somewhat slow at times however, and besides the famous Battle of Shiloh, the author's regiment (the 61st Illinois Infantry) wasn't involved in most of the larger pitched battles of the American Civil War - yet there is definitely a wealth of fascinating historical detail within these carefully crafted pages.Of course, if you're not a history buff, or a Civil War enthusiast, you may not find this book all that exciting, but as a memoir at least, it somehow manages to be both effective and highly impressive.
Folks would crowd into the local post office when-the mail delivery arrived; the clerk would holler out the name of the addressee, then flip the letter to him or her through the air, which would be promptly read to the entire assemblage.
On one occasion when one of Stillwell's letters arrived, his father was not there, but volunteers quickly offered to gallop out to the Stillwell farm to deliver the letter, have it read, and return with news from the front.
Stillwell happens to meet up with them in the street when the stretcher bearers stop so the father can give his young son, who is clearly dying, an orange.
A first-hand account of the experiences of a Union soldier during the American Civil War--the battles he fought and the sicknesses he endured.
This is a fine account of the life of a Union soldier during the American Civil War. Much available to us in our reading about the ACW focuses on battles and leadership.
In fact, as another reviewer noted, one of the interesting aspects of the work is the author's discussion of his first battle and his realization that life and death on the battlefield was just a roll of the dice.
Few died from bayonet wounds; it was almost always (for battle casualties) rifle fire.Also, Stillwell's narrative gives proper deference to the greatest killer in the ACW, disease.
Written 50 years after the war, the book goes into a lot of detail about the more mundane aspects of the daily lives of soldiers, such as the food, or lack of, sleeping arrangements, and moving around.
He describes his frustration at not seeing a lot of action as far as battles were concerned, but he also knew early on how much survival in battle depended on pure luck and nothing else.
We don't get to read history from the point of view of the foot soldiers very often, but this is such a chance.
He writes well with a folksy humor and some serious reflection on what it all meant.I read the Project Gutenburg version of the book and it was quite good with many illustrations.
I also enjoyed having Google at hand to help look up things that caught my interest.A book that is still available in many editions almost a century after it was first published and a century and a half after the events must be worth reading, right?Here is a longer review from my blog.
The Story of a Common Soldier of Army Life in the Civil War, 1861-1865 by Leander Stillwell was a story all Americans and all history buffs should have at the top of their reading list.
It is the story of a boy that joins the Northern Army at the start of the Civil War and serves as a private, corporal, sergeant, first sergeant, second lieutenant and is finally mustered out with the rank of first lieutenant.
Although he wasn’t constantly in the heat of action throughout the war, his story rings true and I think gives a realistic view from the perspective of a common line soldier.
This book ended up being really good.
It's a memoir by a former Union soldier written several decades after the Civil War was over.
What I liked about it most was how Leander Stillwell goes through his experience in the war from his volunteer enlistment to his mustering out in 1865.
There are some cheesy parts since it's a memoir...
where he goes on and on about valour and fortitude, but those parts are few and far between.
I would recommend this book to any Civil War enthusiast or anyone interested in first-hand accounts of this kind.
This is the best soldier memoir I've read yet.
On the whole he gives the impression of absolute probity and deep contemplation on everything he mentions, and he's not afraid to stop the story and skip around in time if it'll help.There were so many interesting parts, but I thought the defense of the train was the most so.
It's interesting that his career as a soldier began in the impersonal mess of an enormous battle and ended with a far more personal skirmish.
This book is an account of the army life of Leander Stillwell from Leander Stillwell to his son Jerry.
My favorite part in the book was the first battle described, because he described his feelings of being in the middle of a battlefield for the first time.
This book is written talking directly to the reader, due to the fact that he was writing it for somebody.
This allows him to elaborate on things directly, making the book more understandable.
One of the best Civil War Memoirs I have ever read, and I have read many.
Leander Stillwell was a common solider perhaps, but clearly an uncommon man.
After the war he became an attorney then a judge.
His life crossed paths with some of the greats of his era, and gives a great view into the life of the common solider as promised.
Sometimes unintentionally funny, for instance the oft repeated memory of coming upon some liquor, getting drunk and then saying how he did not like it at all and never touched alcohol again for the rest of his life.
Stories of a common Soldier during the Civil War. The book was written some years after the Civil War, but he took a journal, and all the letters he wrote home to his family to during the War to help remember facts.Union Soldier, basic life situations, things he saw, and places they went.
What they ate, and weather they endured.A few interesting tales about seeing Gen. Grant, and meeting Gen. Sherman.He saw his share of the action, but was not in the "thick" of it most of the time.Over all I liked this book, I plan on looking for more book like it.
I was excited to read about the Civil War from a northern soldiers perspective. He spent an awful lot of time talking about the food that they constantly dreamt of eating and describing some of his favorite meals while being a soldier, so other than learning that company D was darn near starving (one common characteristic os starving people is dreaming continuously and uncontrollably about food), there was not a lot of insight that this book contributed. Co. Aytch is a much more interesting read on a common soldiers perspective of the civil war.
A surprisingly easy read devoid of much of the over the top ornamentation that accompanies a good portion of the prose of this era. Stillwell's accounts of his years in the 61st Illinois are enlightening and entertaining. I especially enjoyed accounts of often overlooked details that other civil war memoirs neglect. The description of the operations of the signal corps is but one example of these details that give this work a depth that makes it an engaging read. Highly recommended for any civil war aficionado.
Leander Stillwell claims to be a common soldier, but he shows uncommon communication skills.
The promotions he received during his time in the service also indicate high intelligence and uncommon ability and faithfulness.
He writes well, bringing the plight of the enlisted man to life and painting wonderful word pictures of the scenery, the people he met and worked with, the press of battle, the food he ate and conditions he lived under, and the hopelessness of the ill and infirm.
I'm not a civil war buff, and I don't even consider myself a history buff, but I loved this book.
This is a vivid description, written in 1916, of one man's experience in the Union army. I found it fascinating because it was more about camp life--disease, food and transportation, than about battles. It was interesting, however, to compare Stillwell's experience at Vicksburg with Grant's memoirs. After a while the book became somewhat tedious, as camp experiences happen again and again and Stillwell is forever unhappy that he isn't seeing more fighting. Having seen the film "Glory" recently, I must say that I find it hard to imagine someone feeling as eager to fight as Stillwell.
Interesting account written by Stillwell, who writes about his experiences during the Civil War as part of a regiment from his home state of Illinois. He wrote it later in life for his grandson, who he said continued to bug him to tell his story. Stillwell went on to become a lawyer and then judge and you can tell he was very well educated. The most interesting thing for me was reading about their day-to-day activities rather than the military things but on the whole it was quite interesting.
Very interesting read. This is a timeline journal of the mundane life of a union soldier told, for the most part, in the colloquial language of the day. Bravery is woven into the story as a matter of fact consequence of war, without grandiosity. The diary is peppered with terminology reflecting unselfconscious prejudices with honesty that has never encountered political correctness. Very refreshing. This book is an important addition to any library of Civil War enthusiasts, and should find a place next to the books by and about the political and military leaders of the time.
Excellent book recording his life as a soldier during the civil war. Leander Stillwell wrote this in the early 20th century from diaries and other sources assuring accuracy of his memories of life as a Union soldier. Haling from west central Illinois his accounts take him from his home to Springfield, IL then to many points in the western theatre and as far east as Nashville. He became a lawyer after the war which may account for this well written story.
This is a very good book. It tells the daily life of a Union soldier during the Civil War. The only major battle he was in was at Shiloh and most of the time his regiment was doing duty in Western Tennessee and Arkansas. So, the story does not focus on battles and other well-known incidents, but instead what the soldiers ate, thought, and what they felt during the years 1861-1865. It is well written and offers quite a bit of incite into what it was really like to be a soldier at that time.
