https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/209956.The_Warren_Buffett_Way
In the end, Buffett triumphed using the power of rational thinking and conservative investing principles. His foes perished by their own hands, victims of herd mentality and folly.
I am not an expert investment guy.
I wanted to find out more who Warren Buffet is and I was not disappointed.
Ultimately, Warren Buffett believes in research, research, research when BUYING a company.
When you buy a stock, you are purchasing shares in a company.
He looks at everything from quality leadership, past and potential future earnings, and most importantly, he asks anyone who is purchasing stock - do you understand the company and what they do.
If you don't, don't buy them.
Lots of great nuggets in this book and I have a better understanding of Buffett and investing overall.
يقدم الكتاب الطريقه الامثل للتعامل فى بورصات الأسهم وهى التى استطاع من خلالها وارن بافيت تحقيق ارباح قدرها 42 مليار دولارويمكن تلخيص تلك الطريق فى تحديد الشركات شديدة التميز ذات التاريخ الطويل فى تحقيق الارباح والتى تديرها ادارات قويه ومتميزه وانتظار تدهور اسعار اسهم تلك الشركات مع الهبوط الشديد فى الأسواق وعندئذ يتم شرائها ...
ثم الانتظار لبضعة سنوات لحين ارتفاع البورصه وعندئذ يتم البيع وفى ذلك الحين تكون قيمة الاسهم تضاعفت عدة مراتالكتاب جيد وانصح بقرائته لكل من يفكر فى التعامل فى بورصات الاسهممن الجدير بالذكر ان وارن بافت هو صاحب اكبر ثروه تم تكوينها من البورصه عبر التاريخكتبت هذا التعليق بعد اطلاعى على الطبعه العربيه من الكتاب المسماه ( الاستثمار فى الاسهم على طريقة وورن بفت) ...
Don't bother. I expected better from the practitioner who wrote this, Robert Hagstrom of Legg Mason Capital Management, but in its audio version it's dry, simplistic, and badly read by someone who gears his pace toward eighth graders. That's probably the best audience for this book. All others, especially anyone who has even a passing familiarity with Buffet, should skip this and read "The Essays of Warren Buffett" or Berkshire Hathaway's annual reports instead.
Each edition of The Warren Buffett Way has been widely regarded as the authoritative guide to how Warren Buffett selects the businesses he buys.It starts with a chapter on the people who taught Buffett how to think about investments, Benjamin Graham, Philip Fisher and Buffett’s business partner, Charlie Munger.Hagstrom then outlines 12 immutable tenets for buying a business and gives examples from Berkshire Hathaway’s portfolio.The remainder of the book explores the psychology of investing.
Similar books I’ve read have skimmed over the ideas they present, leaving you feel like you’ve snacked rather than digested a full meal.
This was a decent overview of the author's thoughts on Buffett's career and processes, but it provided no real insight outside of analyzing his moves through well known quotes and anecdotes.
The book is almost voyeuristic in that the author had no actual contact with Buffett or anyone in his circle, but was obsessed with every move he made, even admitting to having a dedicated file for newspaper clippings about Buffett.
After the book was written, Buffett met the author; I bet Buffett had bodyguards to protect him from this adoring fan.
There is now way one could be another Warren Buffet. But reading this great book and learning at least part of it, can make us better investors and more cautious regarding the risks involved. A few interesting principles and lessons, and that is it. Worth reading, no doubt.
Warren Buffett is a man focused on the job in hand that of making money from his investments.
When Hagstrom lays out the process in this book it appears worryingly straightforward - find a quality brand with few competitors in an industry you understand, look at the return on capital then buy the shares and let the good management have the time to prove their worth.
Anyway, if you are looking for a fascinating insight into how the 'Old Man of Omaha' operates, this book is a pretty good start.
Warren Buffet is an American hero in my opinion. Humble, down-home, ethical, charming and intensely brilliant. The book is part biographical; part descriptive of the Buffet investment philosophies. Since Warren Buffet invests in simple, easy-to-understand businesses, the description of the companies in his portfolios are pure "Americana". Robert Hagstrom did a fantastic job writing the book....well-written and totally engaging. I was not bored for a minute. I enthusiastically recommend, particularly if you are Warren Buffet fan.
The author, Robert Hagstrom, reveals in an intuitive manner the key aspects of Buffett's process, providing a great foundation for those interested in concentrated stock portfolio investing.Benjamin Graham, a pioneer in value investing and Buffett's most important mentor said that "Investing is most intelligent when it's most businesslike." Buffett considers these the "the nine most important words ever written about investing" and himself thinks of stocks as pieces of a business, rather than pieces of paper or lines on a chart.
His portfolio construction process is reasonably simple - find competitively advantaged franchises likely to generate materially higher earnings for many years into the future, wait for them to trade at a margin of safety to the discounted value of expected cash flows, and then buy with exceptional conviction.
The Warren Buffett’s Way - You want to smarter investment? well, then do it the Warren Buffet’s way. Warren Buffett is a man focused on the job in hand that of making money from his investments. This book is a part biographical; part classifying of the Buffet investment philosophies. I was not bored even a single minute. This is a book you will want to listen to several times. Simple, classic and elegant and completely makes sense. I would give this book a 4 stars.
Nick has been studying Warren Buffer by way of news articles and Berkshire's annual reports for many years. From these studies, the author has built what he thinks is the strategy that Warren uses to analyze and eventually purchase companies. The book explains how Buffet is part Ben Graham, part Philip Fisher and part Charlie Munger and explains how each of their theories has influenced Buffet's business purchasing techniques.
This book was fantastic. Not only did it teach readers some facts about investing and the history of several of the last century's successful investors, it also described the mindset that's so important to maintain as an investor. Understanding that mindset is almost more important than anything else. You're a business owner when you own shares in a company, therefore it's important to know the ins and outs of that company.
الكتاب جيد وانصح بقرائته لكل من يفكر فى التعامل فى أسواق الاسهمكتبت هذا التعليق بعد قراءة النسخة العربيه من الكتاب المسماه ( الاستثمار فى الاسهم على طريقة وورن بفت) ... من ترجمة مروان ابو جيب وهى الطبعه الأولى وصدرت عن مكتبة العبيكان.والحكمة تختصر ب الشراء في القيعان حينما يكون الناس في هلع من السوق والبيع في القمم. واختيار الشركات ذات الاستثمار.
وورن بفت من افضل العقول الاستثمارية في العالم يقوم الكاتب بتحليل طرق استثماره وكيفية شراءه للشركات ليقرب لنا طريقة تفكيره التي بناها بفت ببراعة بمزيج من الخبرة و دمج الاساليب العلمية من الكتب التي استمتعت بها و انصح بها كل شخص مقدم على اي نوع من انواع الاستثمارات
Took me two years to start reading this book, finally I read it at the same time I read a Damn right on the other person behind Warren Buffet "Damn Right" good book about how Buffet chooses a company to invest in
كتاب ممتع يغوص في عقلية بفت الاستثماريه ويستخلص منها الدرر والحكم واقتبس منه لاتكن كأي أحد تعلم وأقرأ عن الآخرين وابدأ من حيث انتهوا وكن أنت نفسك :) انصح به للمهتمين بسوق الأسهم والاستثمار وللمختصصين
Now this book is really good because it really tells what makes buffet genius in a very simple and sensible way.
Describes how the investment decision making process of the world's most successful investor. Good discussion of what makes a company valuable.
Simple, understated and makes complete sense.
Brilliant book.
No get rich quick scamThis is a book you will want to listen to several times. What is there to learn comes in several layers. th entertaining and insightful, this is well worth the money.
Fischer memiliki prinsip Less is good, Ia akan melakukan dialog ke setiap Manager yang ia temui.Buffet menggabungkan2 ide dasar dari Fischer dan Graham.
Beberapa hal sangat identik dengan Fischer, seperti Rational Manager, Understanding the Business Operation, Temperative Institution, dan Compare the Stock Company.Apa hal yang unik dari Buffet?
Hagstorm mengutip bagaimana buffet terhubung dengan online hanya berdasar pada tiga hal "He buy books, reading wall street journal, and playing bridges" Ketakutan saya adalah pendekatan yang digunakan Buffet untuk tidak membeli stock perusahaan berbasis teknologi tidak reliable lagi di era millenial saat ini.
For those who won’t, it will be because you get in your own way, not because the world doesn’t allow you.” 6 All who know him, and Buffett himself, agree: The driving force of Warren Buffett is rationality.
(p.264)Warren Buffett said many important things, none more profound than this: “When the price of a stock can be influenced by a ‘herd’ on Wall Street with prices set at the margin by the most emotional person, or the greediest person, or the most depressed person, it is hard to argue that the market always prices rationally.
It begins with some of the learning Buffett got from his role models and friends: Ben Graham (Margin-of-Safety), Philip Fisher (high Return on Equity), John Burr Williams (“A cow for her milk; a hen for her eggs; and a stock, by heck, for her dividends”) and long- time partner Charlie Munger (eg.
Together, they create a strong, disciplined investment process for the long-term investor that focuses on absolute return and is able to stand the pressure of sometimes quite high volatility and occasionally vastly negative relative return to a benchmark.Buffett’s business tenets are to answer these three questions: Is the business simple and understandable?
Intrinsic Value- Use DCF to estimate the true value -> Must know exactly the cash flow distribution of the company from now to a point in the future-> Use a reasonable discount ratio- Is the market price lower than the true value?Portfolio managament- Index Investing- Active Investing- Modern portfolio theory from Markowitz-> Limit from 10 - 20 kinds of stocks-> Be persistent and hold stocks for a long time-> Be calm and control emotions before fluctuation from the market
Fiquei muito espantado por ver a quantidade de empresas que WB é dono, mas também, ele é um dos mais ricos do mundo, era de se esperar.
E pelo que vi, se realmente WB aposta em dirigentes (CEOs) honestos, o segredo de uma empresa está directamente ligada com o nível de honestidade e integridade da sua gerencia.
WB, toca em conceitos muito simples, que não era de se esperar do número na área de investimentos, deve ser por isso que as estratégias dele funcionam.
WB teve os melhores mentores no que toca a investimento na bolsa.Acima de tudo, o homem é de uma simplicidade e genialidade fora do comum.
It appears that The Warren Buffett Way, Second Edition by Robert G.
However, The Warren Buffett Way Second edition may come close.
As I understand it, Buffett himself has read the book and agreed to its publication.This book is well-written and extremely well-researched.
Many people buy the highest price stock on the stock exchange just to get to read the annual reports written by this man.
I have never seen one.We give The Warren Buffett Way, Second Edition by Robert G.
We think if anyone is serious about investing, they should read this book.
The calculations are easier and worthy, however, I don't think it will be applicable in all of the cases.The author has also talked about the concept of 'Moat', which too becomes important when investing in the companies for a long term.And like this, there are many important things, concepts, formulae, calculations.The author has written about 4 important people in Warren Buffett's life, whose idea he follows, applies when investing.
Benjamin Graham and Charlie Munger are two of them.It's Charlie Munger who told Warren Buffett that sometimes, it's okay to pay a premium to some companies when investing because they're worth the premium, and will maintain that premium for a longer time.Yes, who can forget the importance of a better management?It's a must-read book.
The process for investing success outlined in the book is not for everyone.
I would recommend this book to anyone interested in actively investing.
It's just not necessary to do extraordinary things to get extraordinary results."- That which is difficult to measure can be badly measured.- Buy a company for less than two thirds of its net asset value and focus on stocks with loss price to earnings ratios.- The value of any investment is the discounted present value of its future cash flow.- Tenets of the Warren Buffets Way:Business tenets -1.
