https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/734928.The_Shy_Little_Kitten
My nephew wanted an extra story today.
He wanted to read an old favorite.
So he brought me the shy little kitten.
It was my first time reading it.
I don't know, the kitten seemed more independent than shy to me.
She made a lot of friends out in the world all on her own, so anyway.It's a cute story and it's a classic along with the Pokey little puppy in the Golden Book series.The nephew enjoyed the story.
I think getting a puppy has popped his dreams of wanting a cat, which he can't have, so maybe the book is enough.
It's just not my thing... I don't understand why the kitten is labelled shy when it heads out to explore the world while its siblings stay home, and, while I know it's wrong to compare novels such as this to other similar ones, I don't understand why the pokey little puppy got in trouble for running away and the shy little kitten didn't... Just screams discrimination to me... Might have to check spark notes for further analysis...
The enchanting mid century illustrations are the saving grace for this strange little story. The illustrations would make excellent wall paper for a children's room in a midcentury modern home... Exactly why was a kitten eating a carrot at the end? And what was so funny about a bee stinging a frog? I don't think that was funny, I think it sounds painful. Plus, they all laughed at him, and then he laughed along, but I doubt he found it amusing. I think they were all stoned at the end, particularly that pig.
I'm not sure what makes this kitten shy. She's the only kitten who leaves their mother and the only kitten who makes friends with other creatures; that seems pretty outgoing to me!
Hey look, someone wrote a book about me!!Okay, not really, buuuut...This book is so stinking cute. <3 Me love it.
When I was first able to read, I kept this book on hand at (nearly) all times.
I must've had one hundred books, but The Shy Little Kitten, The Poky Little Puppy, and the Frog and Toad Collections, were readily available in a basket in my room at all times.This came to mind because when I went to my sister's house yesterday, I discovered MY COPY of The Shy Little Kitten!!
My 42-year-old sister stole MY copy (the one in perfect condition) some time this year!!
So, I now have in my possession, my very own copy of Cathleen Schurr's, "The Shy Little Kitten.
In a little pile of books in the corner of my favorite bar in Barcelona was this one.I had forgotten
For the past few nights, my four-year-old son has been taking a few Little Golden Books to bed.
I'm not really sure if it is because of the stories or the shiny gold spines.
The Shy Little Kitten he seems especially fond of.
Not one of them was shy little kitten.
I think the story might have been written around the adorable illustrations, but it still works.
What is really great is not only is this book old enough for me to have read, it is also old enough for my parents to have read.
I do not like this book - the writing style is very outdated (published in 1946) and the 'shy little kitten' part makes me feel like the author is referring to girls in general, for some reason. But Kate seems to really enjoy it, so out it comes every night.
I was surprised by what good condition this was in, compared to other books from my childhood. then I realized that it wasn't from my childhood, it was a recent copy given to the girls. Man, that 1946 artwork is odd.
Troy picked up this book at a yard sale, and when I got a hold of it, I read this book out loud to my kitten. We both seemed to enjoy it.Strangely, I'm considering the illustration on the last page as a tattoo.Yes, I'm a crazy cat lady.
I really really liked this book because I had it since I was a baby and I really really like cats.
Classic that I love to read to my grandson.
We have neither, and I have recently renewed my acquaintance with these childhood favorites.It's true, the tales are simple: in this case, the shy little kitten bravely leaves her littermates and makes new friends.
This is a good lesson for small children about how to talk to new people.
He brings the simple tale to life with gorgeous paintings of the kitten, her littermates and mother, and the new animal friends she meets along the way.Many modern-day artists have been greatly influenced by the illustrations found in Little Golden Books, and it is always worth having a look at them.
Without giving away the story, I am unsure that the kitten is actually shy.
Actually, the more I reread the story in my head I think about how the kitten wondered away from her family and spent the day with animals she didn't know.
I am certainly not the type of person who thinks this will encourage children to talk to strangers but it was just a thought I had.
Anyway, this story falls in line with many of The Golden Books as far as illustrations go.
The drawings are somewhat detailed and certainly not modern, which is something I like about all of their books.
As an old classic, this story still proves its importance through its pages. I was a shy girl when I was little and used to do the things this little kitten does. That is why I love this story for I could connect to it. This is a lovely beginning read for those that are intimidated by others or reading in general. It really helps take the shyness away, and it even provides comprehension questions at the end too.
I read this while waiting for a table at the Swedish restaurant yesterday; it was at the Swedish shop across the street. The illustrator, Gustaf Tenggren, is Swedish-American. Anyway, I'm a sucker for cat books and the illustration of the shy little kitten looked very much like my big shy cat. The story was...well, for kids, but I did like the illustrations, which look like watercolor. The kittens just look so fuzzy! lol
A sweet story about a shy little kitten who goes on an adventure with the help of a mole, a frog, and a puppy dog. the end is a little strange and disjointed from the rest of the story with all the farm animals going on a picnic and then jumping into a pond after one of them gets stung by a bee, but it's still a sweet tale and makes my toddler smile
Another favorite from childhood that I'd forgotten about, but my mom found it while organizing some things! My brain exploded when I pulled this out of the pile of books she had given me to go through--I have such strong memories of reading this book as a child! The drawings and the story were one of my favorites to read (or have read to me) over and over. One of the best Golden Books ever!
This was part of the winter book collection at Chik-fil-a. This is probably my least favorite of the group. The watercolor drawings are a bit odd at times and the story makes women appear weak. That being said it is story about a female kitten who is lost and tries to find mother again. She meets a mole and frog along the way.
Short book about a little kitten who gets separated from her siblings and mama and has a little adventure before finding her way back home. Cute, colorful illustrations that seem to stand the test of time, since the book was written over 60 years ago.
I read this to my 2nd youngest daughter, aged four. I enjoyed it, mostly because the story is one of independence, where the kitten has an adventure, and it has a happy ending. This is how most things end in life, and I am glad the kitten had a nice adventure.
Mom picked this up for me from the drug store while waiting for our prescriptions (antibiotics, prednisone, and codeine syrup, yikes). The illustrations are very cute and the kitten goes on a nice adventure and makes new friends. :)
Even though this cute little kitten is a bit shy about being out of his normal space, the curiosity inside takes over. This book shows just how good it is to balance curiosity with that shyness and that overcoming fears can lead to wonders new experiences.
A very basic story that I only picked up because I love cats and the illustrations are fabulously vintage. I think once my little one is old enough to really understand what I'm reading (or able to read themselves) this one will start collecting dust on the shelf.
A shy kitten wanders away from her mom and her "bold and frisky" brothers and sisters and has an adventure with a chubby mole and shaggy puppy. It's hard to see the point of this book, but my 4-year-old daughter likes it.
This gentle little narrative describes a shy kitten who goes for a walk with a mole. She meets a frog, a puppy, and a squirrel. Along with her mother, siblings and some other farm animals, they have a picnic.
One of those must read children's books. Enjoyed reading it to my daughter. The old-fashioned illustrations are lovely. Text is starting to feel a bit tired, but, I'm sentimental enough to enjoy it anyways.
I have forgotten how enjoyable the Golden Books are. My son and I are reading them for our bedtime story. We really enjoyed this story, though it was a bit jumpy, the illustrations are lovely and it was a nice peaceful story before bed.
This book was about a shy kitten she went and met many animals. I liked this book because the kitten was cute. My favorite character was the shy little kitten because she's cute. I would recommend this book.
