https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/139668.Riding_in_Cars_with_Boys
We get it, it's hard, there is no one that will contradict that.The whiny tone that the book is written in feels like she's trying to elicit all of this understanding from the reader about her neglect of her son (she mentions that after her mother points out how dirty her kid is, she realizes she can't even remember the last time she bathed him).
She also occasionally reminds how sometimes she likes to be mean to her kid, because it's funny.
It felt, in the movies, like Beverly was struggling but doing the best she could while seemingly stuck in adolescence.
There was some growth in the character...The book was, sadly, not as compelling as the movie.
In the book, one could see that this wasn't the extent of it at all.
I feel bad saying this because it is her life's story, but it feels more like a repeated telling of how she used and manipulated those around her, including her child, to get where she is.
Perhaps if I wasn't expecting something more inspirational of this book, I would have liked it more.
I'm suprised that Ray, Beverly's ex husband did not have a bigger part in this memoir and I do think that the screen adaptation showed his story in a much more shocking way.Compared to the movie the book is quite different but not necessarily in a good way.
However, while Beverly is in hospital I didn't find it very funny which was a let down compared to the movie as I remember having to pause it just because I was laughing so hard.The book just fell a little flat for me and we don't really get much of a connection or feel for the characters like I hoped.
What comes next is a series of time periods in her life where you are convinced that at any moment, Beverly will grow up, quit whining and do what she must to raise her son, now on her own.
But with each passing year in her book, my realization grew stronger that Beverly was a selfish baby who should have done the right thing by her son and put him up for adoption and let responsible adults raise this child.
I was incredibly disappointed in this book and instead of sympathizing with Beverly and her situation, I wound up despising her and felt incredibly sorry for her poor son who had Beverly as his mother.
I wanted to read the actual memoir.Bev is an self-centered woman who regrets the conception, birth, and life of her son.
She only cares about herself, and there were moments where she seemed to glory in her child's misery.
She was a danger to herself and her son, though she didn't care.
Though I hope that Jason grew up to be a lovely, well-adjusted young man, I can't help but think he'll carry scars that will bleed over into his own child rearing.I read the book quickly, but I was angry throughout most of it.
This book was a wild ride (pun intended). I enjoyed it a bunch.
There’s a movie based on it with Drew Barrymore, but before I read the book I hadn’t seen it.
I must admit I did read the book because it had a movie to go along with it, but as usual, I liked the book better than the movie.To summarize briefly, Bev is a teenage girl living in the projects who gets into some “trouble”, meaning she gets knocked up.
She knows it, too, and tries to make the best of her life.I liked this book.
Usually biographies drag on with unnecessary information, but Riding in Cars with Boys isn’t like that.
I also really like the movie that is based on the novel, and I have seen many reviews claiming the movie is better than the book.
One of the things the book adds that is missing from the movie is how remarkably honest Donofrio is about herself.
Because Donofrio goes to a place that is true and real and fully reflects the experience of a working-class teen mother trying to grow up with a burden she never wanted and struggles to truly love.
I also felt like this book really helped me to fully understand my own mother and childhood more.
This is a great story.
I saw the movie years ago, and I am glad that the novel is absolutely nothing like it.
I almost wish the film directors hadn't taken such liberties with the story, because I would love to see a movie of this as written.
What I loved most about this book was the raw honesty of Beverly Donofrio.
This story was about her struggle with her own inadequacies, and how she rose above all of the things in her nature that kept her down.
I wish it had been a bit longer, but it was a great memoir.
3 STARS A memoir of a women remembering her teenage pregnancy and how it has come to shape her life. I enjoyed Drew Barrymore's role in the movie as much as I liked this novel - the movie and novel are different.
But with it all, the book is fresh and engaging.
But she drew me right in and kept me engaged through-out her story.
I loved one description, especially--she's just gotten some news- some very good news, and writes: I felt like Hester Prynne must've felt in the next chapter, the one that never got written, the one where she's in the woods on her way to the rest of her life andfinally rips off that ridiculous A and throws it in the camp fire.I created a new tag just because of this book -- "Yikes"
It was an honest account of a selfish kid who had a child and kind of raised it, but she never seemed to grow up herself.
Not even as she was writing this stuff did she seem to have any remorse...
She seems to be proud of what she did, even though, by her own account, she was a selfish, crappy mom.
Oh, yeah, by the way, I have a son that I really didn't want until he was old enough to take care of himself, but I'm proud of how he turned out.
This only gets 3-stars because the back story from the movie was embedded in my head.
If I had never seen the movie, this book would've come across completely flat.
Spacing was mid-word "im matterialy", "Si mone", etc and every single time the word "corner" was in the book it was written as "comer".
Every time.
This would be a book I'd say isn't really worth reading if you've seen the movie (or even if you haven't).
It only makes half-sense unless you have all the life and characters pumped in from the movie..
This book too a few pages to get into before it started to get interesting, but as it goes on, it becomes a memoir fueled by a rebellious main character who dreams of a better life, and by events that allow her to get there.
This book is the author's own story about being a young single mother to a little boy. It is sad in parts, and very funny in others!I really liked this book (and the movie too!).
The book starts and ends with her driving her son to college.
In junior high school she wants boys cruising in cars to pay attention to her.
This motif about men, cars, love and yearning for freedom (with the risk of mistakes looming) is I think a really nice touch.
She's realized her son was the best thing that ever happened to her in many ways, and she knows she's made lots of mistakes.So she does change, and she confesses many sins, and writes beautifully about it all.
Two obstacles overcome to get this book read -- my love/hate relationship with Drew Barrymore with this crappy photo on the cover, and the clunky, sentimental title.
After that, this book is a nice, quick read, with some important things to say about the experience of women in the last half of the 20th century.First off, our book group will be watching the movie together in the next week or so, and I'm braced for a Barrymore performance.
Of course there are mothers who don't love their sons, or don't show it, but it's not often a mother admits it, and then dedicates her book to him.
I really enjoyed this book a lot and thought it was well written, and not to sound like a cliche or anything but I however felt like I can relate to Beverly on certain things. I think it's a book for people who are interested in non fiction/biographies (but we all have differences in what we like in biographies), and I didn't think the movie did a good job on basing this on the film too. In my opinion the book is definitely way better than the movie.
A really easy read with interesting, though not particularly likeable characters. Beverley was obviously a smart girl who made a mistake by getting in with the wrong guy but turned things round (with major ups and downs along the way). The version of the book (audio book) that I had featured a lengthy interview with the author which was very interesting and shed a different light on some aspects of the story.
Bittersweet story unflinchingly told with utter honesty. This should actually be read by anyone studying the 60s. Working class familys message is Girls Dont Go to College. Friends talk of marriage. Boys go off to war. Girl pouts but then the Sixties and their Do What You Want To Do message hits. This means She Can Go To College! But, Girl gets pregnant. Much social commentary in this Girl Meets Boy/Boy Does Drugs/Girl Raises Son tale. Loved it.
Bittersweet story unflinchingly told with utter honesty. This should actually be read by anyone studying the 60s. Working class family´s message is Girls Don´t Go to College. Friends talk of marriage. Boys go off to war. Girl pouts but then the Sixties and their Do What You Want To Do message hits. This means She Can Go To College! But, Girl gets pregnant. Much social commentary in this Girl Meets Boy/Boy Does Drugs/Girl Raises Son tale. Loved it.
I thought this book was way better than the movie! This book shows how a girl who was doing well had dropped her high expectations and hopes and dreams due to her son. Her husband was a slob who was always in the way and late to pick up their son or made up lies and excuses as to where he was. This girl makes an amazing change to keep her and her son in the lead to success. She does not want her son to fail like she did in life. This book will enlighten you in many ways!
Not so much about riding in cars with boys, but the result of a rebellious girlhood, before abortion was legal. Though at times I was horrified at the narrator's/main characters indifference to her child, it was indeed a rather touching story. Not to mention a must-read for anyone studying or just plain interested in feminism.
This book is way better than the movie, and I liked the movie. I found Donofrio's voice authentic and interesting. I love reading stories about mothers who are not traditional, who articulate the dark side of having children. And who by association make me look half-way competent as a parent. An enjoyable read.
Moving memoir by a working- class Italian-American girl who gets pregnant in high school, marries the wretched guy, and eventually comes into her own. She is a neglectful, resentful, but nevertheless loving mother, and a rebel in a sexist family and community. Quite entertaining. I saw the movie some time back, which was miscast with Drew Barrymore starring.
Started out good - but I found it impossible to route for this woman who refused to learn from her mistakes. Instead she seemed to blame everyone else (the 'establishment,' her parents, her husband and most of all her son) for all of her poor choices and problems.
I picked this up because the movie is one of my (many many many) favourites, but I was dissapointed big time! The book is neither funny or interesting or... anything like the movie adaptation! Characters are not likeable, Bev is not amusing, witty, someone you'd like to read about more.:(
It's been awhile since I've read this but the fact that I don't still have it says something. I didn't really like Beverly. She was annoying, rude, and bitchy.
I absolutely LOVED this book!!!
I absolutely loved, loved, loved this book! It was very funny and great to read. I would recommend it to anyone!
I watched the movie first, years ago, and it's one of my favourites.
The writing was good, as was the story, it was just so different from the movie.
That's really the only problem I had with it.I actually really enjoyed how much more intense Beverly's character is in the book; she's a pot-smoking hippie who borderline neglects her son and doesn't wear bras in the name of equality.
Other than Ray's heroin addiction and the teen pregnancy, pretty much every aspect of the story was different from the movie.
Unfortunately, over the years, the movie had consolidated itself in my heart so I'll have to give that story line the edge.
