https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/204390.World_s_End
This is the first installment in Sinclair's "Lanny Budd" series.
It's excellent historical fiction that is thoroughly researched and offers an insight to American history you're not going to get in school.
The series begins in the early 1900s when Lanny is a young teen and follows his life in Europe leading up to and through WWI.
He lands a role in the peace process and Lanny's description of world events is incisive.But what is really amazing is the revelation that what the world was fighting over in WWI is exactly what we're fighting over now - Middle East oil.
This first installment takes us through the first world war and ends when the peace agreement is signed, June 28, 1919.Lanny Budd was born at the turn of the century, so it's easy to tell in which year the action takes place, as it is the same as his age.
Still, I think Sinclair found an interesting vehicle to write his historical fiction of this long and tumultuous period.There are no gripping scenes where I worried about one character or another.
The period covered in this novel saw the Russian Revolution, and I learned it affected the west immediately after the war that was new to me.
It has been out of print for years, but is finally back from a small publisher.
Now that there is a movie (There Will Be Blood) based loosely on Sinclair's novel Oil!, I hope there will be a resurgence of interest in this left-wing, socialist-minded novelist.
Here is what the publisher had to say (edited down somewhat):While this novel is fictional, it is probably one of the best historical views of the 20th Century.
It will give the reader a greater understanding of the world events during that period of time.
Upton Sincalir left us a truly vivid perspective of the world at this point in history.
Habia leido La Jungla anteriormente de Upton Sinclair, y aunque es magnifico, no tiene nada que ver con esta serie de Lanny Budd.
El fin del Mundo es casi un libro de aventuras, de esos que no puedes dejar de leer, que estás deseando retomarlo estés donde estés, una historia vital y entretenidísima y Lanny es un personaje maravilloso.
Muy invisible en nuestro país Upton Sinclair, quizás por lo que decía más arriba y la gente se piense que se puede parecer a La Jungla, que es casi la obra más conocida de Sinclair, y sin embargo, estoy segura de que cualquier acercamiento del lector a Lanny Budd ya es para siempre.
It is just plain good writing. An enjoyable story about a kid growing up with diverse influences. He learns to question everyone and to never say too much.You can enjoy the pleasantly simple story while absorbing the moral message re the intricate complex undercurrent of global business, and learn a little history too. I wish I would have read this a long time ago.I think everyone would like to think of themselves as been as open-minded and thoughtful as Lanny Budd. This is likely why I am so attracted to this storyline.
For the last month or so I spent my reading time in the rarefied world of Lanny Budd, the main character of Upton Sinclair's book World's End. The 599 page book (yes it was long) is the first of an eleven-book series with over 7,000 pages.
The story begins when Lanny is an eleven-year-old boy and concludes when he is 19 - in 1919 at the end of World War I.
The book is a means of relating the history of the time and the road leading up to the first world war and it aftermath.
The first of eleven books from the World's End series, also known as the Lanny Budd books. By far my favorite books of all time.
The book is long and it reads like it was initially a serial (though i don't think it was?)...a series of quandaries and dire straits which are resolved within a chapter or two but meanwhile a couple new ones have been introduced.
And in fact the end of the book is much the same, in that only some things are resolved, others are left cliffhung, and the first bit of the next in the series is included at the end of the ebook.
I'll keep reading this series for sure, and in fact it would probably make good TV show fodder for one of these long-run Netflix or Showtime series.
Sinclair also shows how, concurrent with this Great War, the working class rebellions worldwide were reaching the boiling point, and the Russian Bolsheviks were the noisiest, but far from the only ones fighting their own wars within the Great War, and wanted to take over every country as they did Russia.Lanny, at nineteen, was also involved in the long drawn-out peace negotiations, and thereby able to give his readers a window into the squabbles and demands of the various parties which finally resulted in such a punitive treaty as to guarantee the next war, even while progressive dreamers like Woodrow Wilson thought they were saving the world with such a treaty, and its new League of Nations.
Visit Unshelfish for more reviews & giveawaysSinclair dishes out a huge chunk of history in this book, his layout is appealing and it describes more than any textbook.
You can’t help but find yourself taken by Lanny.If you’re interested in history but avoid nonfiction, you will completely enjoy Sinclair’s historical fiction masterpiece with the nonfiction well presented and researched.
Sinclair offers the opportunity to enjoy history in an easy to read manner through the eyes of impressive Lanny Budd.
A wonderful prelude in an 11 book series.Sinclair’s story is told from the Socialist perspective which adds an interesting spin creating an enthralling read.
As much as I was excited about finding a new-to-me high-quality historical series, this book was a slog.
The widespread reader comment that Sinclair used Lanny Budd as a historical vehicle a la Forrest Gump more than a fully developed character is right on.
It's true that Sinclair covers an enormous amount of Treaty of Versailles political history in a way that would have been very difficult without placing Lanny conveniently at the center of, well, everything.
What most interested me is that these events occurred less than a decade before Sinclair wrote about them.
Not sure I'll give Lanny another go, though.
This series is considered historical fiction but at the time it was written it was mostly contemporary, at least, in the sense that Sinclair was writing about history that was contemporary to his life. Of course he had to do a lot of research about the Paris Peace Conference and the arms business. I enjoyed the book very much and I felt its only flaw comes from Upton Sinclair's innate ideological preachiness. Otherwise, I totally loved it.
Upton Sinclair is one of the most under-read and underappreciated (I won't say underrated, because most people who read him really enjoy him) authors around. All of his books teach me something and while they may not be the typical "page-turner", they are definitely entertaining.
The first book in the Lanny Budd series. This book shows how Lanny developed his political ideas. Great history about the political events concerning WW1. I have read this book 2 or 3 times in the past and am reading through the whole series again.
Made me want to read more of the Lanny Budd series.
Summary: First in a series of eleven novels, introducing the character of Lanny Budd, a precocious youth on the eve of World War 1, his German and English friends and their respective fates during the war while Lanny divides his time between his glamorous mother and artist step-father on the Riviera, and in New England with his father's Puritan munitions-making family, ending up as a secretary to a geographer at the Paris Peace Conference.Several months ago, I read and reviewed A World to Win, number seven in the Lanny Budd novels.
The main character is 13 year old American in France, Lanny Budd and follows him until at 19 years old when he served as an assistant to advisors at the Peace Conference in Paris, 1919.
It's saving grace was that it was very interesting with aspects and theories about the war and the peace conference that I'd never read or heard of before.
Lanny Budd becomes a kind of Forrest Gump type character, who seems to be around the important people of the times and on the edge of major events.
World's End is the first of ELEVEN (?!) novels by Upton Sinclair using a charming young Lanny Budd as a main character.In this first installment, Lanny is a young American teen living in a lovely French villa when Europe begins moving toward WWI.
We follow Lanny as he grows to adulthood and toward the signing of the second Treaty of Versailles (where he again has a front-row seat).Author Sinclair is able to put a few more nuances into his description of President Woodrow Wilson's 14 Points and the birth of the League of Nations than I received in my high school history class.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book.
I enjoyed meeting the protagonist, Lanny Budd.
While I have read a fair amount of WWII stories, I knew little to nothing about WWI.
I rarely like to read a series of novels but am making an exception for this series as I’ve already started the next book.
At almost 800 pages, there is a lot of history about the events leading to WWI and the War. It is presented in a style that is easy to read.
If you like historical novels, this is one of the best I’ve ever read.
The author did go into great detail about the affairs of the world powers at the end of WWI.
He did a good job but I have read too much about WWI and find it depressing.
The authors socialist feelings were not hidden which is ok with me considering the state of the world at the time.
Many parts of this book could be made into a dozen very good short stories in my opinion.
I am not glad that I read this.
But will try some other books by same author.
Well worth it!I had a teacher in high school who taught us about the Russian Revolution and WWI using the book Nicholas and Alexandra. It was a great teaching tool and got me hooked. This book does a similar service. The story follows Lanny from ages 13 through 19. Through his experiences, I learned a lot more about WWI, the Russian Revolution and the following "peace" treaty. I'm not talking about just facts. I learned about cause and effect, of the events of the time period. Decisions that still have ramifications today.
I discovered this Lanny Budd book through Kindle e-books. Upton Sinclair wrote this book in 1940 and Amazing has the book as an e-book only. there are eleven in this historic fiction series. The book read like very modern story which was a surprise to me as it was written 75 years ago. In this book, Lanny is a teenager to twenty years old and covers WWI through the peace talks after. I do want to read more of this series.
I’m now reading the first book of the series, called World’s End. The protagonist, Lanny Budd, is a young teenager with a European socialite mother and an arms-manufacturing father. It takes place in the months leading up to the outbreak of WWI. So far it is slow, but I’m keeping with it more as a history lesson than anything else
An excellent beginning to the Lanny Budd series. In addition to being a fine novel, it provides great historical insights into the times and personalities of the Pre - During - and Post World Ward one period
Sinclair is a terrific writerSinclair's writing is always readable -- wonderfully descriptive and laced with wry humor which helped tremendously getting through long, detailed passages covering historic events.
A fantastic premise to enlighten the reader of the inequalities in the world. An earnest boy raised in great wealth and elitist society oblivious to the hardship beneath his feet - slowly becomes aware. Great reading.
When I finish number 11, I'll reread 1,2,and 3 to see all that I missed. The best series ever.
Historically accurate and a great representation of the experiences of everyday people during WWI.
A little slow getting started, but very informative and entertaining.
There were parts of this book I loved and parts I slugged through. Will continue reading the series. Overall definitely engaging. Love Lannys mom, Beauty, she cracks me up
