https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/174374.You_Can_t_Win
This book, newly reissued in a very nice trade paperback edition by Feral House, was first published in 1926, written by Jack Black, a drifter, hobo, small-time criminal, drug addict and jailbird who finally went straight and wound up with a job at a newspaper in San Francisco.Black left home as a young boy and took to the road.
Falling in with other drifters, he was apprenticed in a life of crime that included valuable lessons in casing a job, breaking and entering, cracking safes, fencing stolen goods, coping with the law and other such skills.
This book is written by a reformed criminal known as Jack Black (1871-1932).
He had been a homeless vagrant, a burglar and a thief, had cracked safes and had been sentenced to a penitentiary five times.
Exactly how the burglaries, thefts, cracking of safes and prison escapes were planned and executed are meticulously described.
The message of the book being that trust and kindness breed further trust and kindness, that prisons breed brutality, violence and further criminality.
It is made clear that his life of criminality had become a habit.
It's kind of like a Jimmie Rodgers song in book form; hopping trains, "riding the rods," hobos, gambling, hold-ups, violent deaths, prison, duplicitous backstabbers, tried-and-true pals, pistol-packin' papas (and mamas); it's just about all in there.
Some critics have called into question the veracity of Black's "autobiography," but to me it just doesn't matter whether he told the absolute truth as it happened or if there were some "stretchers," as Huck Finn would say, or even if he just made it all up out of whole cloth (not bloody likely).
There is truth and value in his words, his prose is clear and true, and the book is both highly entertaining and highly edifying.
I read this book while tramping up and down the East Coast.
He bummed this book off a girl in Pittsburgh, a girl he got wet without ever touching her.
Pittsburgh to Philly to NYC to Boston, Providence, New Haven and back to New York just in time to go to Richmond, Virginia where we took a gaggle of fellow tramps on a train to Rocky Mount, North Carolina -- and there we met the fourth of our original crew and he took us to Chapel Hill, NC where we all got rip-roaring drunk for four days and then got kicked out of somebody's house.
I am not really getting why people are reviewing this book so highly.
I thought that it got a bit boring: In and out of jail and onto the next heist is most of the book.
I enjoyed the beginning and thought the book held promise.
Even when people died in the story, it didn't really engage me, emotionally.I suppose that just for the fact that it humanizes criminals and illustrates the unexpected morality in criminal subculture in a way that most of the population isn't really used to is a good thing.
I will probably always scramble for words to describe this epic.
Though I can say for sure that it will be the first book I'm going to recommend to anyone, for the foreseeable future.
Feelings and words are everywhere.
It wasn't until I reached the end that I noticed the text at the very bottom of the publication page: "Prisoners can receive this book by sending $10.00 to A.K. Press at the Oakland address noted above." A knot shot right to my throat and it's going to be a while before it goes away.
I didn't know before I starting reading You Can't Win that this was supposed to be William S.
But I was kind of disappointed because the narrative voice and style was eerily similar to Junkie, Burroughs' first novel.
I had the same feeling while reading John Fante's work - it sounded exactly like Bukowski.
But then I still think their work amazing - so does it matter?
I think of my own writing and wonder if I too am liberating someone else's style?
Yet, I read a lot - do I do it without knowing?
He wrote about a lot of things that I am curious about - riding the rails, tramping in general, being a thief, doing time in prison.
At times it was like Hollywood shows it, at other times completely different.He wrote a lot about the honor and friendship that he shared with others "on the road".
Many times he would hop off a train and walk into a town with nothing but his shirt and someone who knew him would feed him and hand him some money - knowing he was good for it.
He and others like him had "reputations" on the road with others like him.Other reviewers don't see this book as much better than mediocre.
You Can’t Win is a romance story, or at least it’s romantic.
On this second path, your responsibilities are governed only by a transactional code of honour between you and the person next to you; a compelling idea in the world of 2012.And that would be the entirety of the book – if you only skimmed the introduction by William S.
The book isn’t a roadmap to our own Walden Pond, but it’s an interesting rumination on our own personal obligations to what is expected of us, our responsibilities to our fellows and our role in the grander order.
A major inspiration for Burroughs, it seems, this is a book unlike many else. How many other stories are there of 19th Century vagabonds and junkies? Equal parts Genet and Deadwood, this shows the side of America at that time left out of conventional narratives, whether that narrative is the Hollywood Western or the Victorian novel of manners. Here is a uniquely filthy, depraved world, albeit one not without camaraderie and hope, depicted with grace and passion. For those of us who have an interest in the darker corners.
one of my favorite parts of this book is when the author describes the wino scene in turn-of-the-century san francisco. it's basically a large common room, everyone brings their own cup, there are people laid out along the walls, passed out drunk. there is a huge pot of stew, with ingredients coming from whatever scraps were on-hand. once a day the dead are culled from the sleepers and taken out to free up space for the next hopeless drunk.
I bought this book at a now defunct left wing bookstore. I bought because I felt guilty about browsing so long. A wonderful autobiography, and perhaps the best I've ever read by a nonprofessional writer. A fascinating life this guy lead.
I loved the window it gives into the late 19th century, a time before police radios, credit checks, and widespread fingerprinting.
The author's objectives (anonymity, recon, break-ins, secure drops) were analogous to those of a computer hacker and he came up with some ingenious hacks that are relevant to modern-day computer security.For example, he encountered an uncrackable safe that was due to have a lucrative payroll stored in it.
Instead of giving up, he disabled the safe so that nobody could use it.
The payroll money was then stored in a less secure place.
Bugün artık ne ifade ettiği bilinmeyen çok satar yeraltı edebiyatı soslu eserlerin yanında parıldayan güçlü bir kaybeden otobiyografisi, belki de kaybetmiyordur hem kim kazanıyorki hayat denen herzeyi.
Jack Black's amazing life story, filled with petty thievery, narrow escapes, prison breaks, and hobo jungles. An insider's look at transience and crime in Depression Era America. A truly unique book.
What an immensely tough life to have lead. Reading books from this era of life never ails to enthrall me. And specifically learning about hobos and the like, crime and the lower classes of this era is fully satiated from this read. What a point in history!
Anyone who has ever even broken the speed limit should read this. A bit too individualist and product of its time, but other than that...

A tie sú to najgeniálnejšie z celej dobrodružnej knihy.Napríklad táto skvelá analýza rodiny - dik, napísal to gangster bez vzdelania, ktorý nemal žiadny majetok a všetko, čo mal, mal v hlave:Často jsem se sám sebe tázal, o kolik lépe na tom je chlapec, který má vedle sebe matku do doby, než se postaví pevně na vlastní nohy, který má domov, pod jehož vlivem žije, dokud si nevštěpí nějakou pracovní filozofii, díky níž je schopen čelit světu.
Zdá se mi, že se tím vysvětluje, proč muž, který tak hrdě říká: Jo je moje matka," je v tolika ohledech jiný, než jsem já, je někým, kým já nikdy nemůžu být.
It presents itself as an evangelical testament to the evils of a life of lawlessness.The narrator describes his many misadventures as a professional thief.
It provides a description of the narrator's lapse from being a promising young man of a good family to degradation.
It does not read like the description of someone who really believes he has wasted his life and wants to dissuade others from following the same path.One of the book's most notable readers was the writer William S.
Burroughs, who read the book several times as a young man, and took it as a testament for lawlessness.
His reading of the book informed his desires for lawlessness with the highest ambition to be a Johnson.
There are no writing styles, no flashy gimmicks to wow lit agents, no dumbed down PC dialogue for the pampered YA market.
Black writes like a street fighter punches, and it is fucking refreshing.
At the end of the ride, you can take stock of your own sojourns and see how you measure up.My copy contains paintings and illustrations by low brow master, Joe Coleman, and an intro by William Burroughs, and is one of the few books I won’t retire to my free library for continued lending; I’m keeping it close, to remind me that in all things, the direct way is the best.
Burroughs introduces this & anyone familiar w/ his work can certainly see why!
Burroughs reused the characters in this bk freely.
Burroughs begins his foreword w/: "I first read You Can't Win in 1926, in an edition bound in red cardboard.
I learned about the Johnson Family of good bums and thieves, with a code of conduct that made more sense to me than the arbitrary, hypocritical rules that were taken for granted as being "right" by my peers." Exactly.
I take it for granted that it isn't though.
Even as a old hand himself he was still taken by surprise.
"Justice is a word that resides in the dictionary.
It occasionally makes its escape, but is promptly caught and put back where it belongs." Every bit as true today as it was when this book was written.
Probably even more true nowadays.
"My experience with short rations in many places has convinced me that we would all be healthier and better nourished if we ate half as much food and chewed it twice as long." Another bit of wisdom from Jack Black that has more relevance today than it did when he wrote it.
What would he think of our drive-thru, garbage-gobbling fast-food culture?
Was made aware of the title through reading The Place of Dead Roads by WSB and was delighted to see the passages that he had lifted from memory after all those years. This is a pulp style biography of a drifter and criminal and occasional addict who lived by a code of ethics that are probably higher than your average New York or London banker.Recommended historic yarn of a life of crime and punishment.
Having heard of this book through my studies of the Beat Generation writers (they were deeply inspired by it, especially Burroughs), imagine my surprise when I found a first edition copy in an antique shop in Morrison,CO for only $2.00! (It's been reprinted and is easily available now.) The sordid, autobiographical tale of a petty criminal and wanderer, You Can't Win is a fascinating book, and necessary reading for Beat Generation fans.
This is an actually a very amazing book. Written in the early 20th Century, William S. Burroughs took the 'voice' of this book and used it consistently through out his career. He admits that this was a blueprint to his own writing. But beyond that, "You Can't Win" is a great document of hobo life in the U.S. A truly classic book!
Written very plainly which makes it read realistically. It was an interesting story about being a criminal, but I found the stories from the prisons and jails to be the most memorable. While living outside the law sounds like a blast - those jail stories were scary. I heard they are making this into a movie. It would adapt to a script easily.
A fun book, I always wanted to know what a “highwayman” was. That said: most of it is bullshit. But fun bullshit. There is dialogue where some "highwayman" mentions “Psychology”. Considering when this book was written I find that hard to believe. Some of this book was written by someone other than “Jack Black”.
hobos, bulglarly, murder, prostitutes, prison, heroin.true story. amazing. An America I actually wish still existed. skip the last chapter (unless you want to read a 1920's version of the last five minutes of a full house episode), but read the epilogue about the author's death.
The way it kind of turns into a prison reform pamphlet toward the end is a little weird, but then again that's where they guy spent about a third of his life so, y'know, it's cool. I'm not gonna' sweat it.
