https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/487580.Voyage_in_the_Dark
Anna, coming from the West Indies and working as a chorus girl across England—much like Rhys herself, whose own experiences illuminate this emotionally charged novel—has her beautiful and youthful innocents trampled upon by the misogynistic society of men who willfully takes advantage of her to fulfill their carnal lusts.
Through her elegantly executed juxtaposition of England and the West Indies, as well as gender relations, Rhys creates a cutting compounded metaphor of English imperialism and misogyny that exposes the hardships a poor, young woman must face in a society that views them as nothing but material goods to be plundered and discarded while they struggle to etch out their own identity.
Jean Rhys, rediscovered treasure, gives us depression in all its gruesome splendor in "Voyage in the Dark."The hapless victim of said undiagnosed malady goes a 'lil bonkers living out her reclusive/bohemian lifestyle in dreary London of olde.
This novel seems like a natural companion to Kate Chopin's "The Awakening," Perkins Gillman's "The Yellow Wallpaper," or to anything by Sylvia Plath.
Rhys' literary voice is so authentic and compelling.
Her realistic depictions usually involve the constant repetition of feelings or notions of the lucid principal character, these in just the way they would perambulate the realms of the human mind.
I will seek out her novels now with a voracity that's pretty genuine.
First published in 1934, Voyage in the Dark was no doubt scandalous for its time – more so because it’s “autobiographically inspired” and features a (view spoiler)[botched illegal abortion* (hide spoiler)] – however, by today’s standards it’s just another episode of reality television.
The room had smelt musty and through the glass of a window that wouldn’t open you saw dark green tree.
I bet he’ll make me feel I’ve said something stupid.
-*Fun Fact: (view spoiler)[In its early iterations, Rhys concluded the book with Anna dying from the botched abortion.
I know it has a reputation of being all too sad and here I am feeling that it was a sad like it is hidden at the bottom of a well.
I didn't even want to dive into the book and save Anna like I usually do.
I wanted to be outside and not think about who could be in those happy pictures too.
Like you could know what thoughts burned those brains and there's nothing lonely about it.
(I'm going to read the others in my big Jean Rhys book.)
Now I recently read that women of various religious affiliations are having their hymens surgically replaced as a way of achieving "innocence" once again, offering a second virginity to be sacrificed on an altar bed with a future husband.
I do take issue with men like Walter and Lancey who prey on young women and believe that they are purchasing their charms at a fair market value.
When Anna/Jean both become (view spoiler)[pregnant by other men after they have been thrown aside Walter/Lancey do lend money and sympathy because both are much easier to give than responsibility.
I’ve also read that this was your favorite.
We all have our favorites, don’t we Jean?
So she became a chorus girl and she sought the company of wealthy men, daddy substitutes I suspect.
(Oh yes Jean, I know all about your daddy issues.) Who can fault her for how things ended up?
Here’s what I know about Anna (here’s what I know about you, Jean): she was just a child; she was lonely; she had needs: the need to be loved, the need to be heard, the need to be accepted...
And we get glimpses of that, don’t we Jean?
And when you'd had a drink you know it was the best way to live in the world, because anything might happen." That sounds like hollow happiness to me.FEMININITY, FASHION and MONEYThere is plenty of hypocritical hand-wringing in contemporary media about societal pressures for women and girls to look beautiful at all times, but that's not entirely new.
Anna agonises over the fact that "everything makes you want pretty clothes like hell", and sees people looking at the latest fashions, "Their eyes were fixed on the future, 'If I could buy this, then of course I'd be quite different.'"She realises that once you have a taste for such things, you have a taste for such things - and it changes your outlook, behaviour, and even your voice.
It was one of those days when you can see the ghosts of all the other lovely days. You drink a bit and watch the ghosts of all the lovely days that have ever been from behind a glass. I failed to understand Anna Morgan at first. It is easier to empathize with someone who would look back at the remains of their life and the fading flicker of its loveliness. I understand why they would care to make nothing out of it. But with Anna it is different. She is barely nineteen. And she is living a life
Anna doesn’t like England, cannot get used to the cold, she misses home.
Anna is white, and Francine cannot like her.
Men like Walter, Carl like young looking women.
Women like Anna can never be assimilated in the prescribed dictates of domestic respectability.
Even in the conversations between Walter and Anna there is no genuine interest in her memories, her inner life that she desires to share.
But when she drops her guard, those become moments of total risk, irretrievable damage—of those states of innocence when lust is mistaken for love, when one fails to adjust in a world where love can be a traded item that loses its sheen with time.
I am not sure why reading Jean Rhys’ “Voyage in the Dark” reminded me of one of my favourite novels, Somerset Maugham’s Of Human Bondage.
Maybe because both main characters – Philip in “Of Human Bondage” and Anna in “Voyage in the Dark” – are somehow outsiders who struggle to find meaning in their lives.
Nevertheless, I could feel Jean Rhys’ artistic talent emerging, and I therefore look forward to reading some of her later works, especially the critically acclaimed Wide Sargasso Sea. Whether it goes on to become one of my favourite novels, as was the case with Somerset Maugham’s “Of Human Bondage”, remains to be seen.
SOME NOTES ON THE AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL NOVELAutobiographical novels – they should all of them be loaded onto one of those huge barges that take garbagey rubbish out into the ocean and set on fire and the charred remains dumped somewhere ecologically safe, anywhere, so long as I don’t have to look at them anymore.
The ones with beastly lives.
Perhaps I’m going to be one of the ones with beastly lives.
This novel is continually stream-of-consciousing back into her childhood:I wanted to be black.
I always wanted to be black.
- When I told him he sat forward in his chair and stared at me, looking very fresh and clean and kind, his eyes clear and bright, like blue glass, and his long eyelashes never still for a second.
Call it Morgan's Folly I told him and you won't be far wrong" – Then he started talking about my being a virgin and it all went … the feeling of being on fire … and I was cold.
I thought, 'Anywhere will do, so long as its somewhere that nobody knows.' - The streets looked like black oilcloth through the taxi windows.
One of my favorite novels of all time. This book is like a great rock and roll band that's never been discovered by the masses. A gritty, poignant, modernist take on colonialism, loss and sexual deviance. Hail Jean Rhys. The coolest female voice in literature. Sultry, damaged and delicate... just like her last words on her death bed - "More rouge darling. Please apply more rouge." Indeed!
Introduction & Notes--Voyage in the Dark
Here, the civilized world that 19-year-old Anna has been dragged into and abandoned to by an itinerant step-mom (ever so proper and disapproving and ultimately careless with the fates of others) is contrasted sharply with the disorderly, supposedly improper lives of faded colonials in the West Indies of Anna's girlhood.
Its a sort of social horror novel of a terrifying inavailablity of options, all of society seemingly bent on shuffling its young ladies into one of two fates: shoe-horned into respectable life under the glass bell of domesticity, or frowned into oblivion under the sign of supposedly loose morals.
Doubly so, as he simply presents a ‘reboot’ of ‘Looking for Mr Goodbar’, and no one will call him on it.So, brownie points for Rhys, she’s going to show us what really, really, happens behind the scenes, from a female perspective.
To underline this point in pretty thick marker, she has heroine Anna Morgan reading ‘Nana’ early on, (note the alliteration.
I’m sure everyone already knows this, but Nana is Zola’s 19c French courtesan, risen from poverty to extol the virtues of stupidity and frivolity of the demi-monde.
Anna Morgan é uma jovem de dezoito anos de idade, órfã de pai, que trabalha como corista num grupo teatral em Londres, deslocando-se em digressão pelo interior de Inglaterra, nascida na Dominica, um pequeno Estado soberano insular constituído pela ilha homónima e que obteve a independência do Reino Unido em 1978, situado no mar das Caraíbas.
”Viagem no Escuro” é um envolvente e evocativo romance que retrata a vida de Anna Morgan associando fragmentos do passado na Dominica com a acção que decorre em Inglaterra no presente; sobre a tristeza, a incompreensão e a dependência.
À semelhança de uma época da vida de Jean Rhys, a personagem principal é uma jovem que vive em Paris e trabalha no teatro.
Aparentemente, Anna gostou de um, que a abandonou, mas não tenho a certeza; pareceu-me uma mulher, talvez deprimida, de poucos afectos, que queria estar sozinha, a dormir e a sonhar quando acordada.
================================="Mantém a esperança viva e poderás fazer tudo — é assim que o mundo gira, é dessa maneira que o fazem girar.
Mas que acontece se deixamos de esperar, se a nossa espinha se parte?
Que acontece então?"— 
Jean Rhys
It's like the mood established in Eliot's "Game of Chess," extended for a hundred pages, or a Clean, Well-Lighted Place for Georgy Girl.The story, briefly, is about a young woman, Anna Morgan (substitute Rhys if you like), who has a whiff of the exotic about her (she's from the Caribbean islands), trying to establish herself as a performer in England.
(But later, somewhat sloppily when it comes to Rhys, Anna tells another character she doesn't read books.
Zola is pretty heavy, especially for an 18 year old who doesn't read books.) Anna quickly catches the eye of an older man w/ money, and the relationship follows the normal death arc of such things.
Jean Rhys em 1975 por Bill Brandt“Quando as vozes deles se calaram, o raio de luz entrou de novo por baixo da porta, como a última investida da memória antes de tudo ser apagado.” (P.159)
Second read of this (first time was more than 15 years ago so really does not count...)Please see the many wonderful 5 star reviews already on here for reasons why you should read this (and her in general)
And how do you know what it's like to try to speak from under water when you're drowned?"Writers, usually male, have written often about female madness, feminine otherness has usually been the domain of feminist theory, but writers like Rhys, Leduc, Duras and some others manage to unflinchingly capture this gender experience without pandering to cliche, stereotypes of weakness: nerves, sensitivities, or by pointing fingers at the 'enemy' (or oppressor,etc) of the moment....Yes, the female protagonists are emotional, they are often in a condition of weakness, but these are conditions of circumstance which they themselves view practically from the status of aliens (albeit very human).
Their options, certainly, are limited by their gender depending upon the culture they inhabit, but Rhys and Leduc for example, present women who are as alien from their society as any man out of J.
Written in the most exquisitely controlled prose imaginable, Voyage in the Dark is a modernist classic by the talented, often ill-fated, and frequently self-destructive Jean Rhys; this one, like so many of her novels, is all too autobiographically situated within that tripartite nexus that seemed to leave her no other choice but to lead a dogged aesthetic resistance to her own life in her brutally honest self-revelatory fictions.
Jean Rhys’ Voyage in the Dark, published in 1934, is the third of her five novels.
Voyage features Anna, the same type of isolated, adrift, and impoverished young woman as featured in her two earlier novels.
I expect it’s because they feel I really like it’”But Voyage in the Dark also differs from and expands upon Rhys’ two earlier novels in two important ways.
First, Voyage provides Anna a backstory that’s greatly expanded upon from the backstories for Marya and Julia in Rhys’ earlier novels.
Second, the content of Anna’s backstory includes Rhys’ first exploration of a youth in a small, unnamed British colony in the West Indies.
Some classics are just not for me. Dull, sad and personal depiction of depression, loneliness and naivety in Edwardian London.
The first book I have read by Jean Rhys - and not the last.
Clearly biographical and very well written too.
The protagonist - Anna - arrives in England from the West Indies and has to adapt to a new country, a new culture, and a society that is changing fast.
Anna is ill equipped to deal with her life as a chorus girl travelling the country, and the characters she encounters.
Most of whom want something from her and in the process leave her more damaged.
I'm looking forward to reading more books by Jean Rhys.
"But in the daytime it was all right. And when you'd had a drink you knew it was the best way to live in the world because anything might happen. I don't know how people live when they know exactly what's going to happen to them each day." Bleak. Subtle. Poignant. This novel is beautiful because it's true. Jean Rhys pulls us into the darkness with Anna as she navigates--often drunkenly--the rough, lonely waters of adulthood.I love this girl.
Now, I discover that Rhys wrote two novels either side of this one; 'Quartet' in 1929, 'After leaving Mr Mackenzie' in 1931, 'Good Morning Midnight' 1939 and 'Wide Sargasso Sea' in 1966.
'Voyage in the dark' was published in 1934.'Voyage in the dark' is a stark journey.
Even the writing is stark.
Her voyage is not a bright and assured cruise, but rather more a frightened drifting through dark uncharted waters.I'm not sure how autobiographical this novel is.
The story is punctuated with images of her sun soaked West Indian childhood that juxtapose a life in a dark, cold England.
I felt like I didn't like this much, but then I couldn't stop reading until I was done, so there must've been something in it for me.
Abortion scene fits nicely into a montage with Joan Didion's from Play it as it Lays, a book that'd make for an interesting companion to this on the ole' women-and-gender-studies syllabus, if I ever had the chance to produce such a thing, which I won't.Yeah, I didn't love this or anything, but it was pretty good.
I think I'll read Good Morning, Midnight at some point.
I could say a little more about the plot, how Anna ends up slipping somewhat unconsciously into a state of dependency, turning to drink and sleeping with men in the hope of some much-needed comfort and warmth; but there are other, potentially more interesting aspects of the book that warrant discussion here.What is so impressive about Voyage is the way Rhys immerses the reader in Anna’s thoughts and emotions; we are completely inside this young girl’s mind, sensing everything with her, feeling her pain and desperation, her hopes and expectations as she is exploited by those around her.
I tried to see if I could sum up the story of Voyage in the Dark in one sentence and came up with this one: Jean Rhys takes a rather passive, unmotivated, displaced young woman and through lyrical stream of consciousness and direct declarative prose movingly shows how circumstances and depression lead this character to increasing personal difficulties in early twentieth century London.
That writing somehow puts us on the side of this unfortunately dependent, strangely irresolute young woman as romantic rejection, emotional exhaustion, and the need for money characterizes her London life.
