https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37619.Warlock
Let me count the ways.Obi wan Taita is so ridiculously overpowered I never felt like the "Good Guys" could fail.
:DThe sex scenes were so hilariously ludicrous I'm convinced that Mr Smith has never bedded a woman, esp a virgin.
Seriously, I want to hear from any woman that had three orgasms the first time she had sex.
Seriously, that might be one of Amazon's unique phrases for this book with how many times he mentions it.
There are other issues also, like the ridiculous cartoony villains and the severe lack of editing, but I don't really feel like bothering.
This book is a cross between an ancient Egyptian bodice-ripper and "The Return of the Jedi," with a little Marquis de Sade thrown in for good measure.
I had read the first two books in the series, "River God" and "The Seventh Scroll," and had found them interesting enough to carry on to the third, but as far as I am concerned Smith went completely off the track with this one.Taita, the eunuch slave, was an enormously talented MAN in the first book.
But this series, as far as I can tell, is pure fantasy, designed perhaps to appeal to the wet dreams of 14 year old boys.

Well, damn...All of you guys are saying you read the first two books, and that this one was horrible, basically. But i haven't read the other two book, this is my first time reading a book by Wilbur Smith, and i LOVED it. As far as I'm concerned, this was a well-written thought out book, couldn't have been better.I realize you might not agree with me, and in order to see where you guys are coming from, I'll go read his other books.
The third in a series of books about ancient Egypt, WARLOCK returns to Taita, an eunuch slave who has served several pharaohs.
Readers who met Taita in the first books of this series will love being able to read about him again in his latest mission.
After getting a vision from the deceased Lostris, the queen Taita faithfully served and loved, he returns from his solitary life in the desert to help her grandson, Nefer Seti.
I love Wilbur Smith.
He manages to write a book that espouses adventure, history, friendship and romance all at once.
The book is over a couple of hundred pages, but I got through it quickly as there is a plot behind every desert dune and it is very diffcult to put down.
I have been reading Wilbur Smith since I was 13 years old.
Whereas I have found that as an adult, I do not enjoy the style of writing of the other great story-telling authors that I read as a teenager, Wilbur Smith's style of writing is elegant and complements his story telling ability.
There is a new magician to be added to the pantheon where the likes of Merlin and Gandalf reside: his name is Taita, a former eunuch slave, who is now the mighty and much-feared warlock of ancient Egypt.Wilbur Smith, bestselling author from South Africa, brings us his compelling sequel to River God, a novel of Egypt’s past, where a pharaoh and her eunuch slave evaded capture to fight against an evil conspiracy.
A new pharaoh, the young prince Nefer, is about to take the throne, his father having been recently assassinated and the killers remaining unknown.
The show of miracle and authority as displayed by a slave turned magus Taita is simply astounding.
In the first installation of this book, Taita is seen as an underwhelming character and he has transformed into a legend who invokes awe and respect among the ancient kingdoms of lower and upper Eygpt.
As the story plot turns, Taita is known to be more than 200 years old and is a master adept at magic.
The Bedouins,Assyrians,Sumerians,Babylonians and all the ancient races are seen to be vassals of the mighty egyptians.
An amazing book and the author is a master weaver of words and magic.
No wonder Wilbur Smith was my mother's favorite writer, he is just awesome!
And that is what happened to me with this book.I read the two previous books of this saga long ago, and because one of my nephew gave me as a present, wonderful present!, the last book fo the saga, I decided to read it all over again.
About the book, I totally love the story.
because even when some twist and turns might be predictable, you just enjoy the story reading it.
So, if you like adventure, be my guess, read this wonderful book, you really won't regret it.
I really enjoyed the first book, 'River God'...couldn't put it down, and and was excited to read the next book which I think is 'Warlock' (which I can tell you in hindsight you should skip ...in fact you can go straight to what I think is book three).
Warlock is the sequel to River God that details the later life of Taita 60 years on from the death of Lostris - Taita drops all scientific ways and becomes more supernatural.
Don't get me wrong...I'm all over the supernatural, but Taita in this book is a *totally* different character.
Warlock is a painful, painful, painful read.
Third installment of the ancient Egyptian series by this author. I really liked this book. Mr. Smith writes with the depth and attention to detail that I think other authors should take into consideration. The continuing tale of the warlock Taita and his life through yet another Egyptian dynasty is just as attention holding as the first book "River God". Didn't want it to end but there is more out there to read.
I wish this could be made into a movie!!!
Absolutely brilliant. Smith at his best.
I loved it, everything he writes mesmerizes me!
THE WONDERFUL TAITA HAS LOST HIS CHARM I've read Wilbur Smith's novels, "River God" and "The Seventh Scroll", and although I thought both went on too long and tried to do too much, I loved them for their originality and the excellent drawing of the principal character and narrator, the eunuch Taita.
In Warlock, as in the two "Taita" novels mentioned above, Smith again tries to bite off a smidge too much scope but where the earlier stories were so strong I found myself able to overlook this flaw, now the novelty of the setting has worn off and this time the plot is less satisfying - much like Hollywood sequels that fail to measure up to the original films because they slavishly try to mimic the elements that made the original a success.
Taita il mago diventerà terra, acqua, aria e fuoco affrontando le ombre del male con riti arcani; Nefer il principe diventerà un guerriero, imparando che nulla è più potente di un animo fedele alla giustizia e nulla più prezioso dell'amore di una donna.Wilbur Smith ha scelto di ambientare i romanzi di questa saga tra le sabbie del grande paese africano, nell'antico Egitto dove i suoi misteri affascinano da sempre intere generazioni, creando un'avventura che, in bilico tra passato e presente, spazia dai campi archeologici alle magie, dagli amori appassionati alle lotte dinastiche.
Un punto di forza che può anche essere uno scoglio per il lettore poco interessato alla storia egizia in quanto può risultare un po' stancante la presenza di lunghe descrizioni.Per me un grande romanzo storico, degno seguito della saga dei faraoni di Wilbur Smith.
What a wonderful mystical adventure set in Ancient Egypt.
Our so-called "modern" society is so skeptical when it comes to spirituality and mysticism -- some are even hostile to it.
In Ancient Egypt, a society that in many ways was very superior to our own, a mystical meaning was seen in every facet of daily life.
If we could get rid of the myth that ancient people's were superstitious and somehow inferior to "modern" society, and recover that realization that there is a mystical element in all things, we all would be a lot better off.
I loved River God, but this one got disappointing reviews from others who loved River God. I will say that while I don't think it was nearly as good as River God, it's still a very good story, and well worth the time reading it.I liked the first person voice of Taita better in River God, but using this narrative form allowed the author to more easily be telling several different lines of narration at the same time, which was perfect for this story.It got a bit slow for a bit in the second half of the book, when the detail surrounding the preparation and running of the "Red Road" was being described, but with this exception, the story kept me engaged throughout.
I think I will pick up and try some of Wilbur Smith's other books though, as I think he's truly a master of storytelling.
Took me 2 years to get through this book.It was slow to start.
Rather dull.
Then when things finally got a bit exciting, it took a turn for the worse.
Disturbing to read how one sister kills another by stabbing a knife into her private parts.Sure, things like that may have happened at one time or another, by some sick individual, but it is uncomfortable to read it.
And seemingly perverse to write it.Not a book I felt comfortable keeping, donating, or selling to anyone else.
I destroyed my copy.I won't be reading anything from this author ever again.
Big turn off.
This was a truly enjoyable novel, and despite the elements of magic in it, this book still felt real, as far as descriptions of clothing, food, surroundings, etc went in this time and place of the ancient world. The author really managed to illustrate various settings, from the harsh clime of the desert to the lavish living of the royal courts, as well as how people of various classes were treated. Although this is written well, I'm just glad I didn't live in such a time and place where my life could be ended in a number of cruel ways.
As usual, Smith makes you feel as if you are right there along with the characters. I've read some reviews saying that he strays too much into the supernatural but he has done this before - the Umlimo in the Ballantyne books, for example. I have read this book three times now and still found it a page-turner every time. Taita has developed as a character in this book; he is still as wise as ever but has added magic to his repertoire. Ignore the sneerers; this is a great adventure story.
Im almost halfway through this third book of the series and IM LOVING IT! I SO Love the way Taita has spirited Pharaoh away under the illusion that is dead... I can not WAIT to find out how he "comes back" and gets revenge! Was really wishing he had gotten his God Bird right then too just as he was healed!
Once again, Wilber Smith shows great skill and craftman ship in tying together storyline with historical context and human inter-relations. Seemless! A long read but well worth it. The tension is raised in all the right places and the characters come alive. You are drawn into this ancient way of life and so colourful is Smiths writing that you can't help but get emotionally involved! Stunning!
On 20 CDs and narrated by Stephen Thorne this book takes on a whole new life and made even better the second time around. Heroic, heart-rending,romantic, barbaric, magical - indeed, the stuff of legend.Although the third book in the series built around Taita it is still a tale unto itself and I loved it!
I'm more a fan of Wilbur Smith's earlier novels, but this isn't bad, it is just that he has definitely done better. A rather drawn out, in need of editing down story from the ancient Egypt group of novels, this tells the story of life in Egypt after Lostris' death, and how Taita the slave saves the day. Would have been better if it was a bit shorter and more punchy.
Dit is pas het 2e boek uit de serie over Oud Egypte dat ik lees, kan dus niet veel vergelijken met de eerdere delen (Deel 1, Vallei der koningen, deel twee, Het koningsgraf)Het viel me heel erg op dat Taita, de magier in dit verhaal, wel heel erg de hand heeft in de loop van gebeurtenissen in dit verhaal.
Wat me een beetje stoorde, was het feit dat er heel slecht met de dieren werd omgesprongen.
Nu zal dat in de tijd waarin het verhaal zich afspeelde een heel ander ding zijn geweest dan tegenwoordig, maar het stoorde mij dus.Niet echt een aanrader.
This book is the third book in Wilbur Smith's ancient Egyptian series although, chronologically, it is a direct follow-up to the first book, "River God" which ranks among my all time favorite historical novels.
So now, here in the third novel, the author returns to the era of Taita, his protagonist of "River God", attempting to recreate the magic (and the hugely popular reviews) of that book.
The other main difference that makes this novel slightly inferior to "River God" is that it is told in third person point of view.
There is no getting away with the fact that Wilbur Smith is a great wordsmith and story teller, but this book fell short of the mark for me.The characters are all well formed to a point where you cheer the heroes on and the plot is woven well to maintain pace, in what is a lengthy novel (over 500 pages) and at times the imagery conjured up by smith is second to none, but it still left me feeling underwhelmed.
This book is like the second season of Spartacus, more blood, more gore, more sex and with another guy playing Spartacus.
I tried to watch the second season, which has just more of everything except the heart of the show, the original actor.
All the sex, gore and blood just couldn't make me respond enough to continue watching.So if you wanna enjoy this book, read the series in this sequence : Warlock, Seventh Scroll, River God.This way, you can enjoy all the books in increasing flavor without losing any joy.
Wilbur Smith is one of my favourite authors to listen to on audio book. He is not for the faint hearted or weak stomached. He doesn't hold back with any of the descriptions on anything, truly! He will take you on a journey thats full of riches to just basically disgusting. You can almost hear, see and smell each scene he describes, you want to reach out and touch the riches and shrink away from the filth. It's something we all need to experience, great listen/read!
