https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25065629-hunger-makes-me-a-modern-girl
It's a passable music memoir, certainly of interest to all the Sleater-Kinney fans out there, but even they will be disappointed (as I was) by a book that feels too thin.It takes a while for this work to hit its stride.
The book is riddled with big words that lack any real punch because they're the norm, and this is most evident as Brownstein talks about her childhood.Things get better once SK comes into the picture, as that's really what this book is--not the memoir of Carrie Brownstein, but the memoir of Sleater-Kinney.
The book closes with a brief discussion about SK's most recent tour and album.I'm a fan of Carrie Brownstein and of Sleater-Kinney, and I was disappointed.
In high school she started playing with bands, and eventually formed Sleater-Kinney, which Time magazine once described as America's best rock band.
The book covers Carrie's growth as a musician and her experiences with Sleater-Kinney.
If you are a Sleater-Kinney fan, or if you like punk rock or riot grrrl music, you will probably enjoy this book.
These songs and albums were the best ones because of how huge adolescence felt then, and how nostalgia recasts it now.""Everyone who plays music needs to have a moment that ignites and inspires them, calls them into the world of sound and urges them to make it.
“All we [Sleater-Kinney] ever wanted was just to play songs and shows that mattered to people, that mattered to us. Music that summed up the messiness of life, that mitigated that nagging fear of hopelessness, loneliness and death.” –Carrie Brownstein I’ve been floundering in my reading pool, trying to stay afloat and not sink into a reading slump. I can usually tell I’m headed that way when it takes me days to decide what to read next. I’m an unapologetic mood reader, and a very recent bout of
I’m an unapologetic mood reader, and a very recent bout of shingles has made me super impatient and fastidious about reading material.I had no intention of inflicting my bad mood on this book that I’ve been looking forward to for so long.
Though I’ve never listened to Sleater-Kinney, the band that put her on the map, I still found this book transportive and an iconic tribute to an important era.Her constant struggle to find a place and meaning in life really touched me; it made me feel like I wasn’t alone.
First, I LOVE SLEATER-KINNEY.
I was so excited to read this and what an excellent read!
Some might be disappointed- this is not a typical memoir.
Carrie Brownstein is one cerebral lady.
She tells a story that supports the idea that art saves lives.
She does not dish.
Instead she explains how Sleater-Kinney saved her.
She explains about tour.
And she tells us how she broke up the band.
The feminist punk scene & riot grrrl music was such a great time to live here in the Pacific Northwest.
This book pays homage to that time.LOVED.
Audiobook....
read by the author!I had never heard of Carrie Brownstein until I read Vanessa’s review.
( thank you Vanessa).Still jazzed from “Daisy Jones and The Six”, by Taylor Jenkins Reid, I thought it might be fun to listen to Carrie read her memoir....AND IT WAS!!!Carrie has a dynamite voice with a bubbly disposition.
We learn about her family - ( her escape from the toxicity), and her music.
It’s intimate- raw - honest.Wonderfully genuine.Universal themes of painful growing years break our hearts - yet with her natural funny bone gusto - Carrie’s strength - work dedication- and optimism shines!!!She is an absolute endearing young woman!!!!
I must say, having read a few musical memoirs and biographies this year, by artists I am very familiar with, I have been mostly disappointed.
Carrie Brownstein grew up right smack in the middle of the Seattle underground music scene that spread like wildfire during the nineties, which was a little fortuitous for her.
This book vividly portrays the music scene of the nineties, which was especially interesting to me, since I knew so little about it.
At once an honest depiction of otherness and an interesting examination of the 1990's music scene--especially punk rock in the PNW.
Instead she focuses on her music, her true passion, and all the experiences that come along with finding yourself as you find your place in the industry.
She didn't shy away from telling it like it is while maintaining a gentleness and respect for the topics she dives into.
I think if you're a particular fan of the 90's punk scene you'd be even more inspired and interested in this book.
I found it to be wonderfully written, insightful and pleasant to read, but didn't take away much from it.
This 2015 memoir by Carrie Brownstein, co-founder of grunge rock trio Sleater-Kinney (and known far and wide today for the IFC sketch comedy series Portlandia she acts in, writes and created with Fred Armisen) is devoted purely to Brownstein's emergence from uncool teenager and suburban music geek in Redmond, Washington to recording and touring with what a critic at Time Magazine called in 2002 the best rock 'n' roll band in America.
I totally ate this book up. Thanks Carrie for your brave honesty and intelligence. Your personality shines through so strongly, not only through your music but through this well written memoir. A perfect mix of her not so glamorous rock and roll life and her personal struggles. Her love for animals and her pets really won my heart over. I’m totally a fan after this.
I love Carrie but this was mad overwritten.
I so wanted to share my friends' love, and outwardly pretended to when accompanying them to a S-K gig in LA in 2003, but only went to secretly entertain my crush...and watch the Jon Spencer Blues Explosion, their opening act.) Eight years later, way after Sleater-Kinney disbanded, I was floored to discover Carrie Brownstein the sketch comedienne, whose  Portlandia made me swoon again, this time with giddy laughter.
(The most laughter elicited from sourpuss moi since SNL's mid-90s heyday.) So, yeah, it was pretty much imperative I read her memoir, despite my mixed feelings about Sleater-Kinney musically.Alas, there's nary a mention of the Portlandia era of Ms. Brownstein's life (perhaps her next memoir?
Terrific: sharp, smart, introspective, complex, funny, and sad. What you (I) want in a music memoir—a little creative process, a little zeitgeist of the times, a lot of self-awareness without too much self-indulgence. I guess it shouldn't be a surprise that Brownstein can really write, but it made me happy. Real review to follow.
Many people probably know Carrie Brownstein best as an actress on the TV sketch-comedy show "Portlandia." Prior to starring in this hit show, however, Brownstein was (and is) a successful guitarist and singer in the feminist punk rock band Sleater-Kinney, which emerged from the Pacific Northwest region that spawned a slew of alternative rock bands.In this memoir, Brownstein reveals a love of performing that began in childhood, when she would regale family gatherings with her acting and singing.
Though she reveals few names Brownstein mentions relationships with various women and the difficulty of maintaining a romance while touring for months at a time.Brownstein describes the formation of Sleater-Kinney, writing the songs, and coordinating the guitar and drum music.
If you listen to the audio, the Q&A at the end is great, because she talks about favorite authors, books, bands, etc.This is a long quote, which I transcribed, but I wanted an example of what she is able to capture about this era in music:“The noise they made in Heavens to Betsy was vicious and strange.
However, when ever I AM left to my own devices, I'm apt to binge watch Portlandia, revisit the Sleater--Kinney Spotify and You Tube catalog, reminisce about my grungy, nascent feminist, Oregonian youth by reading wonderful books like Sara Marcus's "Girls to the Front" and watching great documentaries like "The Punk Singer," both about Kathleen Hanna and the Riot Grrl movement.
Just as artisanal craftsmanship is trendy today in food and such, identity-crafting itself used to be a time-consuming artisanal process - one that was liberated by the virtue of not knowing what we didn't know: a lost luxury, these days.As much as I love my iDevices and whatnot today, I'm entirely unsure how I would have matured into anything remotely like myself if I'd had them at hand back then.
It feels like I might be going there in body this time).
I have a lot of “is this all there is?” fears and sometimes I am blessed enough to feel like all the bad times are going to go away sometimes.
This stampede of ravenous spirit animals doesn’t stampede, I don’t know if it is by some grace or what, but I feel unscathed like those times when the song lasts.
I’m fascinated a lot with their method of letting that happen in their living in music (one time Carrie thinks that she and drummer Janet pushed Corin too hard to get there when she didn’t want to).
Having loved Sleater-Kinney and collected 7"s from that band and her prior, Excuse 17, back in the 90s, I probably would've read this book anyway.
I'd fallen in love with Tucker's voice from her previous band, Heavens To Betsy.
It's about her journey, and wow, it turned out to be a hell of a ride!
Without giving away too much, she endured a youth that could easily have turned her into a societal nightmare, another soul damaged by upbringing that might have continued the cycle and spread the negative over others.
I'm a goth girl; none of this feels safe to me.-----I know Carrie Brownstein from Portlandia.
"Whisker Patrol" gets stuck in my head more often than I'd like to admit, but that's about the extent of my Carrie-Brownstein musical knowledge.
A veritable feast for those people who died of excitement when the band announced their reunion last year.I don't think I have ever heard a Sleater-Kinney song.I mean maybe one, but I wouldn't recognize it, and it hasn't stuck with me.I'm not a riot grrrl.
I'm a fan of Carrie Brownstein from Portlandia, as I think probably most of the readers of this book are, so I'd like to issue a general warning that there is no insight in to her comedy prowess here, nor the creation of Portlandia, nor her motivations, her fears, her beliefs-- in fact, there's barely anything in this book at all apart from an incomplete chronological list of events and the frequent repetition of the word "insular." Is my frustration evident already?
The entire book felt like she was irritated at being probed to explain herself when in fact she chose to write a memoir, the most personal and probing act of writing there is.
DNFI was listening to the audio of the book, read by the author.
I only picked this book up because it was in the GR group Our Shared Shelf.What really got me, as someone who loves animals was (view spoiler)[ the fact that she so casually admitted that no one in her family loved their old dog, all it wanted was love and hugs.
So the fucking family decided to have the dog put down, not because it was sick, but because none of them loved it anymore or wanted to bother it.
I read it last night - review forthcoming - undeniable Nietzschean expression of feminist life force. Really great.
So far, I've found Carrie to be a charismatic, compelling, authentic narrator.
I KNOW Carrie is a guitarist and singer, not a writer.
Like, we would be interested as readers to hear about your mom's leaving, which is such a formative event in your life, and about how you left your first band Excuse 17 to form Sleater Kinney.
I know they're tough to confront and frankly, it IS boring to write about the things that have played such a pivotal role in your life that you think about them all the time.
She didn't talk about working on Portlandia, which I also found weird because that has become a big part of her life and what she is known for by people who aren't familiar with her music.
I would find it difficult to recommend this book, but I have talked to other people about the writing style and it didn't bother them at all.
So I would say that if you are a big Sleater-Kinney fan, and are really interested, and you aren't as picky as I am, then you should go ahead and read it.
I've never been a fan of Sleater Kinney or Carrie Brownstein for that matter.
But, I have a close friend who is a fan, so I've heard them more often that I would like.
I like Fred Armisen but I think the show is very hit or miss.
I saw this book on the popular picks shelf at my library and I like biographies, so I thought I would give it a shot.
I think that Carrie comes off as self important and judgmental.
যারা মূলধারা থেকে সরে একটু অনযরকম কিছু করতে চান তাদের লড়াইটা কখনোই সহজ নয়। এবং তিনি যদি নারী হন তবে সে লড়াই আরও বেশ খানিকটা কঠিন হয়ে পড়ে। কোনো একটি কাজের বা পেশার পূরবে 'নারী/মহিলা' শবদটা জুড়ে দিয়ে তাকে কম মান সমপনন হিসেবে পরতিপনন করার একটা সূকষম পরয়াসও যুগ যুগ ধরে চলে আসছে। যেমন মহিলা-কবি (কোনো পুরুষ কবি হলে সে শুধুই কবি, কোনো নারী কবি হলে সে মহিলা-কবি, যেন পুরোপুরি কবি হতে পারলেন না)। 'দযা ভেরি বেসট' হয়ে গেলেও কদাচিৎই এইসব টযাগ থেকে মুকতি পাওয়া সমভব হয়। একজন নারী যখন একজন পুরুষের সাথে সাফলযের
যারা মূলধারা থেকে সরে একটু অন্যরকম কিছু করতে চান তাদের লড়াইটা কখনোই সহজ নয়। এবং তিনি যদি নারী হন তবে
Sleater-Kinney has long been one of those bands I've been itching to see for the last 20 years or so, but have never made it happen for one reason or another - lived in the wrong place, knew the wrong people, didn't have money, was too well-behaved, whatever.
There have been a lot of celebrity memoirs coming out in the past couple of years, and while I'm happy to see that a lot of my tribe has been publishing, I always have this certain anxiety that maybe they'll sound incredibly dumb or arrogant, and I'll lose respect for them.Luckily Carrie came through, just like I'd hoped she would.For those who are interested solely in the band, you won't be disappointed either.
Whether you know Carrie Brownstein from Portlandia or Sleater Kinney, or even if you don't know her, be prepared to embrace her weird wonderful frankness.
Emerging in the exciting, petticoat wearing eyeliner smudging, feminist polemic touting Riot Grrrl scene of the early 90s along with Bikini Girl, Babes in Toyland and L7, Sleater Kinney were raw, punk, fierce and fragile all at once.
I was never a big fan of Sleater Kinney but as a Portlandia fanatic, I had to know more about this bizarre and hilarious woman.
Get out your retro vinyl collection, settle in and embrace the full frontal frankness of Carrie Brownstein: riotgrrl, rockstar, writer.
Sleater-Kinney always stayed that weird apoplectic mix of things through the years and Carrie Brownstein's memoir backs that up by being the least rock n' roll memoir ever.
Carrie describes her coming to terms with herself through music, first as a fan then as a performer, and what it means to perform, to become someone else briefly on stage, then to step off stage and just be that same difficult person.
For me, it didn't transcend the genre in the way that Patti's Just Kids did, it took a few pages to get going and the prologue felt kinda trope-y, but it has tons of beauty, humour, wisdom, and it reminded me what i love about her music and how music grows with you and has magical transformative powers.
In Hunger Makes Me a Modern Girl, Carrie Brownstein strays from the normal parameters of the memoir format to give readers an insightful, raw look into her past and the moments that shaped her into the person who would later co-found one of the world’s most influential rock bands.
Navigating a past fraught with family turmoil, rejection from the music industry, and an unwavering determination to succeed, Brownstein shares the power of rock and roll, both as her catalyst to success and as a cultural barometer of the times we live in.
(4.5 stars, rounded up because I have a huge art crush on Carrie Brownstein) I'm not a huge fan of memoirs, but I read them when there is enough buzz about a book--or as in this case, I love the author. My only complaint with this book is that it wasn't longer because I didn't want it to end. Brownstein is smart, funny, witty, and totally kicks ass and this book is all those things.
