https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/671923.A_Clubbable_Woman
OMG this was awful... I was positively spellbound by its awfulness. It was dreadful on so many levels -- the prose, the plot, the very assumptions that oozed out of the woodwork. Normally I don't finish books that I truly dislike, but this was an exception as I found its awfulness positively riveting.
First published in 1970, the book shows its age in Hill's depiction of most of the women as sexual temptresses – surprising for someone who went on to write one of the most intriguingly feminist characters in crime fiction in Elly, Pete's future wife.
And the solution when it comes gives hints of the complex morality of the criminals Hill will introduce us to in future years.To be honest, if I were reading this for the first time with no knowledge of the series, I'd probably be saying it's a promising debut, better written than most but fairly standard otherwise.
I read the first third of this book and gave up. It is too much of its time for me. The sexism is casual and the women not very likable. It was such a slog to get past the detective's unpleasant personality I never got to the point of caring about the crime.
British mystery with a twist. Out in the hinterlands with the only writing I have recently encountered with a real effort to give us the Northlands manner of speaking. R. Hill is also talented at conveying smaller city manners, as well as, the nature and practice of the local police force. Definitely a page-turner.
A good enough entry to the Dalziel and Pascoe series.
I don't remember Pascoe having quite so many internal monologues in later works, but it's interesting to see them in a more rambly form.The case itself had decent twists and turns, but the atmosphere of the book was definitely saturated in rugby; the family at the heart of the case are involved with a rugby club.
Nevertheless, I did enjoy this book, but I would suggest that newcomers to Dalziel and Pascoe get a few of the more recent ones under their belt before going back to this one.
I their first case together, they investigate the murder of Mary Connon.
Mary Connon was a shrewish housewife married to a former local rugby star.
“Connie” is the obvious suspect but Dalziel disagrees.One of the most interesting things about this particular edition was the author’s note where Hill talks having had no intention of this being a series or of Dalziel being the focal character.
It’s always interesting to see how things develop.
The other thing I enjoyed was learned about Dalziel through Pascoe’s internal dialogue.
Eh. The first one in the series is usually fairly bad. Hopefully they get better.A slutty middle-aged woman of Yorkshire is found murdered and her husband, a rugby player, comes under suspicion. As does everyone at the Rugby Club. Hill's writing is not bad, but there's lots of vintage 1970 casual misogyny (starting with the double entendre title).
The book which introduces us to Andy Dalziel and Peter Pascoe, much seen on the TV version of the Hill books. First published in 1970, this is now a little dated and suffers from being too slow-moving. I hope the later books improve a little from this tale involving the local Rugby Club,
It's important to be aware of the period when reading the book, as many of the potential motivations for the characters revolve around sexual jealousy and flouting of mores.
Hill draws a detailed picture of life in a relatively small Yorkshire town in the 1970s, with its web of social obligations and friendships that can be exploited by both the police and those they're pursuing.[return][return]Not my favourite of the series, and the characters aren't yet fully developed, but well worth reading both in its own right and as an introduction to the series.
Stubborn, bloody-minded detectives are a regular feature of British detective mysteries (just think of Inspector Morse!).
Many get caught.Fat Andy’s partner is sergeant Peter Pascoe and, as is often the case in British mysteries, he’s Dalziel’s exact opposite: Young, educated, smooth, a gentleman and a thoroughly likeable chap.
But the woman has been a regular and flirtatious presence at the local rugby club and Dalziel believes the answers lie there.Fat Andy is the kind of cop who can’t pass a pub without a pint or three, but it never clouds his vision or weakens his resolve.

I read all the Dalziel and Pascoes years ago and loved the series, although some of them were downright odd.
I decided to pick up the debut book with an eye toward re-reading the series from book one.And at first, I didn't love it as much as I expected to.
And I admit, the casual sexist attitudes made this one feel dated.However, by the time I was halfway through, the old magic began to work and I enjoyed the last half.Plot: Old school troglydyte Andy Dalziel and his cop underling, the college-educated Peter Pascoe, are called on to investigate the murder of a local rugby player's wife.
The author was recommended to me by someone who knows I love British mysteries and series characters.
Boring, too many references that, I assume, must pertain to the UK or even that time period when the book was written.
Most of my reading is by foreign authors (British, Scottish, Norwegian, Swiss) and occasionally there may be a reference that I might not understand.
I mostly borrow books from the Philadelphia Library website and read them on my Kindle, but this one I bought on Amazon for a penny (and $3.99 shipping).
I doubt I'll read any others by this author and am sorry I purchased this one.
Not bad at all for a first work. Interesting side characters, if a little too many for me to remember (I was interrupted a few times), and I'm looking forward to reading more about Dalziel and Pascoe, our coppers. I also enjoyed a little time travel into early 70s Britain, which was really well described.And more nostalgia: gay meaning merry. Pascoe, quite one for the ladies, describes himself as "bachelor gay". ;)
Dated. Badly written, far too slow. Too much unnecessary build up. It just wasn't a pleasurable read. I enjoyed the TV show which is why I read this book. If you like retro reads you might like it, otherwise I suggest giving it a pass.
Very disappointing. The Woodcutter was really good, I thought, but this one was really weak. Don't know what the fuss is all about (unless he gets better in the next 21 volumes...)
I found this a thoroughly enjoyable read and look forward to reading more titles in this series along with other works by author Reginald Hill. A comfortable read.A police procedural that focuses on the characters and their interactions as much as the unwinding of the murder investigation.
Just beginning the series Dalziel & Pascoe, and have to admit I do love the relationship between them and will continue the series.
There aren't many complicated characters to ponder on, though there are complications in the plot itself which will keep you enticed to keep on reading further.
They bright up the proceedings wherever they go!The writing by Reginald Hill shifts from one person's point of view to another very quickly, and many times, very abruptly, which kills the fluidity of the narration.
Having said that, Hill builds up enough intrigue in the story, by exposing quite a few sub-plots linked to the main murder, so that overall it comes as a fine read for a rainy day!
Sometimes you just want some pulp fiction, a "whodunnit", an easy to read detective novel.
That's my excuse for spending time reading this book.
Really it's rubbish, but I have to admit I kept reading it to see "whodunnit?".I've only occasionally caught bits of TV episodes of "Dalziel and Pascoe", who are the detectives in this novel.
The eventual explanation of the murder was so ridiculous as to be laughable.The book served its purpose in keeping me occupied for a few evenings, but doesn't make me want to read any more by the author.
The first in Reginlad Hill's Dalziel & Pascoe series of novels.
The two protagonists are intorduced investigating a murder linked to a Rugby Club, where they both enjoy hanging around drinking with the players and their women.A highly entertaining series this is and not one that has to be read in sequence because, unlike some, there's little or no exposition on the main characters' personal lives.
The personal lives tends to grate for me, but with Dalziel & Pascoe, particularly the former, there isn't much of one to get in the way of the real business of the mystery.
Wow, times change!
I have to keep reminding myself that Hill started writing in the late 1960s and early 1970s, well before feminism changed EVERYTHING.
His early books are sexist in the extreme, but as a 65-year old woman I well remember the casual sexism of the era.
Hill seems to have progressed over the decades --- he is clearly an educated man --- but the early books, with their leering references to breasts and behinds, are hard to stomach.
Like all of us, he was a man of his times.
Re-read after about 10 years.The first of the Dalziel and Pascoe detective novels.
Very clever and entertaining, although this first one mightn't be his best.Having once been a contender, these days Connie struggles to line out for the rugby fourths.
After an onfield collision, he returns home to find his wife particularly uncommunicative in the lounge.
He retires to sleep it off; but, when he wakes he discovers that his wife isn't just unresponsive, she's dead.
The investigators are Dalziel - a gruff but clever detective superintendent and Pascoe - a social studies graduate and new breed of policeman.
#1 of the Superintendent Andrew Dalziel and Inspector Peter Pascoe series.
In this debut novel of the long running series, Pascoe is still a sergeant.
Although I tend to find British police procedurals podding by U.S. standards, the interaction between the two leads brings this series up a notch.Superintendent Andrew Dalziel and Sergeant Peter Pascoe investigate the murder of Mary Connon.
Her husband is the faded star of the local rugby club and much of the novel rotates around the politics and extra marital affairs of the club members.
The relationship between Dalziel and Pascoe is prickley, contentious and extremely well written.
I love the tv series so decided to delve into the audio books available around this series.
I was brought up in Yorkshire so had no difficulties relating to any of the colloquial references or the attitudes of the people in that era but can see how others may disengage from the story.A very easy book to listen to with a satisfactory outcome.
Enjoyed it as an alternative 'crime' novel to some of the more sophisticated offerings available.
I will be continuing with the series, especially if they're available on audio.
This was the first in the series and was originally published in 1970.
I first read it at the end of the 1970s and have read it again at least once before now.
In my mind this was one of the lesser books in the series and it must be more than twenty years since I last read it so apart from the ending which I remembered vividly I did not remember much of the story.
I was surprised this time around how much I enjoyed this as a story.
Dalziel and Pascoe are not the characters they will become over the series but this is still a great read.
A Northern England police procedural, and an introduction to Dalziel and Pascoe, the first in Hill's long running series. The book in itself is entertaining, and a solid work, but my rating is colored by the whole compendium of the series, and it is particularly enjoyable to revisit the beginning, and see the development of the continuing characters over time. For those who find Andy's scratching antics and politically incorrect comments crude, stay with these stories if you can, and you will find more and more glimpses of depths that you will grow to greatly appreciate.
Reginald Hill's award-winning Dalziel and Pascoe novels have been adapted into a BBC mini-series. Dalziel is the boor, the 'fatman' who doesn't care what he says or does. Pascoe is university educated, intelligent with a beautiful wife. They are described as Laurel & Hardy. The first in the series introduces these characters when a rugby star's wife is found murdered at the club.The two manage to investigate crime after crime, battling personality clashes and changes in their personal lives. One of the best police procedural series ever written.
Heard good things about this series and of course had to start with book number one. I presume it improves greatly. This novel is extremely dated, misogynistic and generally irritating. The two main characters are thoroughly unlikable. If found it difficult to care who done it by half way through. Will attempt further books at some stage but not today.
The first Dalziel novel and a great one! it perfectly captures northern England at a certain time and introduces us to one of crime fiction's best detectives. If this is the first time you have read any of Reginald Hill's books, you are in for such a treat because there are so many more waiting for you!
