https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12530.The_Writing_Life
This is a brief yet intense essay on the art, or as Dillard would say, the burden of writing that will delight readers and aspiring writers alike.
Her lucid ponderings on the obsessive nature of those who devote their lives to squeeze the world out into sentences, limited by expression and linguistic patterns, are as petrifying as they are eye-opening.Far from the romantic idea of a genius struck by sudden inspiration, incessantly scribbling away in otherworldly vision and transforming it into polished and clearly defined paragraphs, Dillard describes the endless struggle the writer has to undergo to put down a handful of fragmented sentences per day.
My full review can be found on my blog.In this short collection of essays on craft, Dillard meditates on what it means to become a writer as well as why someone might want to write in the first place: her seven essays, read in sequence, frame the writing life as a quasi-religious vocation that demands both hard work and curiosity, daring and endurance, from those drawn to it.
All this makes for a curious argument that mystifies the writing life, elevating it above other kinds of work, without idolizing the writer as celebrity.
The gist is that writing is agonizing work and those who are sane should probably avoid it.In her most dramatic moment, Dillard compares being a writer to being a stunt pilot.
Stunt pilots write poetry in the sky with their loops and spins.
To top it off, he can’t even see the art he’s creating.While I suspect this book will scare off some would-be writers (as is its intent) those of us familiar with the headaches and agony of creating sentences will probably find glorious inspiration in its pages.
I suspect most of us wonder if maybe we are crazy for doing it.
to think, children have innocence that adults have lost - I hadn't considered that.So I sit there in that class and I try to appreciate that my reaction to all of this writing I'm hearing is a harsh and unwarranted, critique on a group of people that are sincerely trying to do something they enjoy or feel compelled to do for whatever reason.

Other notes:- The tendency and pressure upon writers these days is to churn out several books per year.
Dillard advises the opposite: “The reason not to perfect a work as it progresses is that original work fashions a form the true shape of which it discovers only as it proceeds, so the early strokes are useless, however fine their sheen."- And finally, these words of warning: "The writer is careful of what he read, for that is what he will write.
Brilliant book, beautiful excerpts with many examples corelating with how to writewhy to write what urge you to write, emphasizing the importance of words.
Otherwise the book is epic.
WHEN YOU WRITE, you lay out a line of words.
The line of words is a miner’s pick, a woodcarver’s gouge, a surgeon’s probe.
Who will teach me to write?
Every paragraph is stunning, and I especially like the previous owner's occasional marginalia in my hardback copy.On page 14, Dillard writes: "Flaubert wrote steadily, with only the usual, appalling, strains.
For twenty-five years he finished a big book every five to seven years.
My guess is that full-time writers average a book every five years; seventy-three usable pages a year, or a usable fifth of a page a day.
On plenty of days the writer can write three or four pages, and on plenty of other days he concludes he must throw them away."To which the previous owner exclaims, incredulous, "?
I have a love/hate thing with this book. On the one hand, it's a brilliant poetic evocation of the creative process. On the other, the process is so romanticized and the examples exalt such a rarified form of extreme self-sacrifice that I half-suspect Dillard is trying to discourage and/or sabotage future generations. It's a five star meal with a dash of arsenic. Approach with caution.
Annie Dillard's impassioned plea for the writing life is as hypnotic as it is tangible.
She will take you to writing desks in remote cabins and isolated studies (keep the world out, as much as you can) to evoke the various stages of writing (elation, excitement, despair, immobility, doubt).
Time will slow down and expand in electrified sentences that you will want to highlight and write down, word for word, in your own writing notebooks.
Line by line, paragraph by paragraph, Annie Dillard distills the elements that make writing as alive, elemental and necessary as it can be.
If you read my five status updates, you will see quotes from the book.
Now you may not write an award winning novel but if you read reviews on Goodreads, you know that there are some pretty good writers here.
Maybe this is simply a memior by Annie telling what being a writer is like for her.
Because the message is "Write your butt off and prepare to fail!" I would just say, "Don't quit your day job but if you enjoy writing remember that there are places like Goodreads and blog sites where you can be published rather than punished." Have a good time writing and have a good time reading this book while you are at it.
This 111 page book took me three days to read (normally I would have finished in 30 minutes) however I wanted to absorb each gem of knowledge, and so kept reading intently, taking breaks hoping it would get better the next time I picked it up.
Most writers seem to spend an inordinate amount of time doing anything to avoid writing Dillard seemed to spend most of her time avoiding writing about writing, and if that was not annoying enough _ I wanted the good stuff - the time she did spend on the writing life was so depressing that if I was reading this book in hopes of becoming a writer I'd have probably gone a slit my wrists.
“One of the things I know about writing is this: spend it all, shoot it, play it, lose it, all, right away, every time.
Do not hoard what seems good for a later place in the book or for another book; give it, give it all, give it now.
The impulse to save something good for a better place later is the signal to spend it now.
Something more will arise for later, something better.
These things fill from behind, from beneath, like well water.
Similarly, the impulse to keep to yourself what you have learned is not only shameful, it is destructive.
I think if I had read this book out of curiosity, and not in the middle of a class where I am writing and having to revise that writing (the hardest part for me), I may not have rated it so highly.
I think anyone who writes or dreams of writing should read this book."You must demolish the work and start over.
But a life spent reading - that is a good life.""I do not so much write a book as sit up with it, as with a dying friend...
If you want to be a novelist, you read novels for the sheer joy of it.
Otherwise, you are (my words) a poser, and for some reason, the writer pose is one a certain breed of person can't help but strike.I'll leave you with some Dillard-style advice:Write as if you were dying.
They were filthy rich (coal = source of the filth) and had an outdoor cabin at the edge of a field overlooking woods where Clemens escaped to write every day.Speaking of, Dillard also insists you avoid a view.
annie dillard? more like annie dullard. two big thumbs down.
Appreciated this little treasure every bit as much the second time around. Dillard is a miner of meaningful truths from the ordinary world—her prose is fierce, invigorating, and unrelentingly beautiful._________Original review (2013)A short, wonderful, straight-to-the-point book. Read it for sympathy in your struggles as a writer:  I do not so much write a book as sit up with it, as with a dying friend. During visiting hours, I enter its room with dread and sympathy for its many disorders. I hol
Perfecting the work inch by inch, writing from the first word toward the last, displays the courage and fear this method induces.
Though she presents reasons for the opposite approach as well—writing the book straight through, beginning to end, before returning to perfect the bits and pieces (in other words, cranking out the first draft in a mad rush, as Stephen King and many other masters of the craft advise)—it’s worth noting that Dillard herself seems to prefer the first method: laying the story one brick at a time.
The time it takes to breeze through this little book is well spent indeed.
Sometime after the excitement of beginning her book a serious writer will discover her work’s own “intrinsic impossibility,” says Annie Dillard in The Writing Life.
A project that takes five years will accumulate those years’ inventions and richnesses.”There’s a lot of reading: a writer must study literature, must know what’s been done so she can try to exceed it.
He is careful of what he learns, for that is what he will know.”She’s on record elsewhere as advising writers to read history.
Sometime during the two to ten years it takes someone to write a decent book (another precept) the writer should read The Writing Life.
This is a book that speaks directly to those who live "with one foot in fatal salt water and one foot on a billion grains of sand."Beautiful and personal and absolutely recommended.

I had to read this for a course and my professor said that some people will love Annie Dillard, while others will hate her.
I am of the latter camp.I'm not sure what I was expecting from reading this book.
Maybe some kind of interesting wisdom about writing?
What I got, though, was a highly pretentious piece of work that read like a self-help book.
most of the book) were a few interesting bits of wisdom, such as using good ideas in your writing as soon as they strike you rather than saving them for later.
If you're looking for a book about insights and struggles of a writing life, this is NOT it.I got this book as a present from my partner.
He knows I love books about writing craft, always looking for ways to hone and improve my skills.I read this book on a flight.
I had to put it down several times and it took another 6 hour flight to finish it.
It didn't.I'm always respectful and supportive of other authors.
With all do respect to Annie Dillard, I often wondered if she was high?
This is the first book I've read by Dillard, but it won't be the last. Her writing is forceful, muscular and insightful, and I'd love to see how that translates into her fiction. The only reason I'm giving this 4 stars instead of 5 is because I got bogged down in the last chapter about her experiences flying with the stunt pilot, which probably says much more about me than it does her. Anyone interested in knowing how a writer works and thinks should read this.
As a fledgling fiction writer, I really liked the author's descriptions of the challenges, heartaches and joys of writing. Some of her passages made me laugh and others made me realize I was not alone. I would have preferred if the whole book were observations on writing as I did not find the memoir parts particularly interesting, thus the 3-star rating.
J'ai découvert Annie Dillard à travers l'un de mes livres fétiches : "Le monde sur le flanc de la truite" de Robert Lalonde. À travers son carnet, Lalonde cite Dillard à plusieurs reprises, tissant des liens à travers leurs pratiques de l'écriture. Les notes de Robert Lalonde sur "l'art de voir, de lire et d'écrire" sont pour moi intimement liées à ce livre de Dillard.
Many quotable sections in this piece, and I am forcing myself to select only one: "Anything you do not give freely and abundantly becomes lost to you."Like Stephen King in On Writing, Dillard has useful observations on revisions and on input/output issues (what you read becomes what you write).
What I really like about her text here is that she doesn't moralize on the craft; she describes it.
A kind of stream of consciousness on the writing process and memories of various writing haunts Annie Dillard has prowled around in procrastination, waiting for sentences to arrive unbidden.One of the most compelling part of the book were its latter pages when she talks about art and the aviator Dave Rahm, something that for most artists exists outside themselves and canbe viewed by the artist and for him, it was something he was part of, inside of, pure creation in a moment."When Rahm flew, he sat down in the middle of art, and strapped himself in.
Rahm must have felt it happen, that fusion of vision and metal, motion and idea."
This is one of those quirky books that take you inside a particular world, in this case, Annie Dillard's life as a writer.
The book is not stuffed with advice on how to develop character or plot.
Instead, it offers a series of days and experiences, a memoir circling around writing.
One of the most amusing chapters, barely two pages, is about the day when her typewriter erupted.
Just as she looks into her life, she is looking into the lives of other writers.
It is a gently intimate book about friends and fellow travelers on their respective solitary paths.
This book is soooo boring. There are two or three paragraphs of beautiful and inspirational writing about writing (which I copied down onto index cards), and a couple of things to remember: Annie Dillard is not a fan of shitty first drafts or re-reading your work too often. But the rest of the book is an autobiography of the mind; mostly her mind while she's sitting in her office in the woods or on an island, freezing her fingers off, not having a day job, and not necessarily writing, or if writing, not writing anything anyone understands.
I loved this book! I'm not sure I could stand having a writing life as isolated and agonizing as Dillard's, but boy she produces amazing prose out of it. And it was wonderful hearing about her process. Highly recommended for writers . . .
