https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/135216.Passenger_to_Teheran
A colorful account of a woman's travel from England through Egypt, India, Iraq, Iran, and back home through Russia and Europe. It is pretty impressive that a unaccompanied woman traveled through the Middle East at that time. Wonderful imagery of the travels and sights and people. Even the barren desert seems welcoming. If the authors name was not given it would be impossible to determine that it was written by a woman (until the closing pages when a customs agent proposes marriage).
مسافر تهران که سفر نامه سکویل وست است به مصر و عراق و ایران در 1925 البته قسمت عمده سفرنامه مربوط به ایران است که بعد از عبور از مرز عراق شروع میشود با یک تاکسی که راه ناهموار تا تهران را سکویل وست در میان خواب و بیداری توصیف منظره میکند...
گاهی از احوال درونش میگوید و گاه از کوه و برف و کندی حرکت....
از زندگی مردم کوچه و بازار گرفته تا تاجگذاری رضا خان و تشریفات درباری و تجملات به فنا رفته و پسمانده قجری...
از سفر تهران تا اصفهان و عبور از قم وبیتوته در خانه کدخدا و خصوصن آن بوته گل زرد...
مسافر تهران که سفر نامه سکویل وست است به مصر و عراق و ایران در 1925 البته قسمت عمده سفرنامه مربوط به ایران است که بعد از عبور از مرز عراق شروع میشود با یک تاکسی که راه ناهموار تا تهران را سکویل وست در میان خواب و بیداری توصیف منظره میکند...
از سفر تهران تا اصفهان و عبور از قم وبیتوته در خانه کدخدا و خصوصن آن بوته گل زرد...
یک چیزهایی هست که هیچوقت نمی‌شود با عکس و فیلم ثبتش کرد...
نعععععع یک چیزهایی هست که فقط باید نوشت فقط باید خواند....
فقط باید لمس کرد....
Witty, self-deprecating, intimate and full of the light one only sees along the way if one lifts one's eyes from the road ahead to the far horizon.Not our contemporary, Vita holds and expresses some opinions and judgements that we might find politically incorrect. But there is no substitute for the writer who can truly transport us: she went there, she paid attention, she tells us about it.
I read this a few months ago, so, it's hard to write about it now. I do remember that I loved it. Not only is it one of my favorite genres, vintage travel, but it impressed me as one of the most beautifully written travelogues I've read.It really made me want to read more of Vita Sackville-Wes's work. I haven't done so yet, but her work is defnitely on my radar.
I feel reading a poetry rather than a travelogue.Not a very informative source if one looks for information about Persia of 1920's or 30's.Her notes of Reza shah's coronation were interesting for me.
However, if you stick with it, you get to hear about the attitudes of a people who aren't really so very different.
You also learn about the great natural beauty.Many of the areas that she travels thru, I had place-marked in my brain as outcroppings of dirt-coloured rock, followed by deserts of rocky dirt, followed by hills of dirt and rocks.
Instead, she describes the bright & changing colours at different times of the day.
Indeed, it is towards the end of the book that she finally seems really involved and the story picks up a great deal.
Sackville-West begins her travel narrative by suggesting the futility of presenting readers with a just account of what the traveler encounters.
She then goes on to create powerful, vivid images of hills covered with lovingly, accurately observed wildflowers, multicolored rock described with a painterly vocabulary, and the glowing, snow covered peak of a mountain observed from Teheran.
Her vivid images are enjoyable and so are her reflections on travel.
Her husband appears in a number of photos but only vaguely in the narrative as part of a "we." It was also disconcerting to get some patronizing accounts of the Iranians from this otherwise keenly observant and sympathetic traveler.
Has all the usual and expected hallmarks of the imperialist encountering the natives. However, Sackville-West is aware of this aspect of herself, and comments on it, which is a bit different. Still manages to transport you to an imaginary, exotic and far-flung outpost of the Empire, with all the romanticism in description you could want. You only wish she'd written more. The prologue is fairly annoying, seeing as she spends pretty much all of it explaining that travel writing is stupid and no one should bother, which takes up probably a good 12% of the total book.
I'd like to try this again one day, but I just couldn't get into it right now... and since it was a library book, and inter-library loan, I couldn't renew it to keep trying.
A single british woman travels through the middle eastern desert.
People just don't write as they once did. So far a stunning book of language surrounding an English woman's 1925 journey to Teheran.
good for its beautiful bits and analysis of traveling and wanderlust in general—but not really specifically about the middle east (even for the time period)
An interesting travelogue.
Estoy MUY enfadada porque de este libro no se habla nada y Sackville-West tiene una voz limpia, lúcida y reflexiva que deberíais estar leyendo todas. Su narración de un viaje por Asia da cuenta de los contrastes con Occidente desde una perspectiva cercana, racional y emotiva. Es inteligente, es perspicaz, una observadora divertida e inteligente... por favor, leed esta obra.
