https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/712313.Barefoot
I bought this book after returning from the beach in Martha’s Vineyard this past summer.
I thought it was about girlfriends at the beach…What I didn’t know was that none of the female characters were likable.
I think this is an important hook for any book – likable characters…instead we are presented with the worst of feminine traits – martyr, hysteria, anxiety, selfish…Ughh.
Honestly I couldn’t get over the beginning when they head to the beach and all hell breaks lose – a child goes missing, cancer illness, pathetic behaviors of so-called “dear” friends…I made myself finish the book in hopes that I might like one of the women, but alas no.
The lives of Brenda, Vicki, Melanie, and Josh are so captivating and genuine, making it hard not to become invested.
The setting is summer on Nantucket, and Hilderbrand's artful use of descriptive language truly made me feel as if I was there, providing yet another reason for why I couldn't put this novel down.While there is a certain, underlying thread of sadness that runs through the story, there are also comical, sentimental, and bittersweet moments sprinkled in abundance.
The characterization is top-notch, making it easy to identify with all of the major characters on many levels.Barefoot is a quick and easy read, and perfect for those warm and lazy days.
*My review will contain some spoilers*I could say that Barefoot is my least favorite book by Elin so far. Even the epilogue didn't answer all my questions about the characters' future. Yet, I still enjoyed the story about these three women spending their summer in Nantucket. The first woman is Victoria Lyndon Stowe. Vicki has been recently diagnosed with lung cancer despite never smoking. She decides to leave her life in Connecticut and take her two young kids, Blaine and Porter, to spend the s
Chemo is never easy and Vicki will have to deal with her feelings about her own mortality.
He's one year older than her but a relationship with him will cost Brenda her beloved job and plenty of legal issues.The third woman is Melanie Patchen, Vicki's best friend who's escaping with them in order to avoid her own problems.
By serendipity, they meet a few more times and Josh ends up becoming their nanny for the summer.
She behaved childishly and never really helped Vicki throughout the summer.
I love her two kids.I thought Josh had a rotten deal.
BAREFOOT ~ A beach house, two sisters, and a girlfriend...Sounds heavenly--relaxing, even with a couple kids in tow…Now, I can handle a bit of vomit and lost luggage, but Hilderbrand mercilessly tugs at all of my feminine heartstrings; marriage, motherhood, sisterhood, and friendship…oh, and that pesky fear-of-death thing.Meet the Girls: Melanie deals with infertility overshadowed by infidelity, and then further complicated with pregnancy — “POW!”Brenda’s promising academic career hangs in jeopardy due to an entirely separate affair—this one seemingly harmless, except for the minor detail that it was with one of her students — "ZING!” And then there’s Vicki hit with every woman’s worst nightmare—a cancer diagnosis with two small children to raise — “BAM!”Pan to the dark clouds parting, casting light down upon the crown of an attractive college student, Josh, who ends up being so much more to these conflicted women then a “Guy Friday” (Hence, Self magazine’s “Beaches meets The Graduate” review).And this is all just in the first chapter…Phew!
It really upset me and made me wish I had left this book on the discount rack at B&N and not bothered paying the $6.00 for it.
I left the price sticker on the back of the book to remind me how much money I wasted.
It angered me and not only did I waste my time reading it all but now I just feel sad about how it all ended.
I want a book that is going to make me feel good when I'm done with it, not like the love train ran over me.
What the back of the book doesn't tell you is that from the very first chapter, the 3 main characters are annoying and never get any better.There is a martyr sister with lung cancer, a selfish professor sister and a poor-miserable-me friend who escapes because her husband cheated on her then ends up cheating on him.
There was not a single character I felt any compassion or sympathy for, including a woman with lung cancer!!
I thought maybe if I already knew their stories, I'd have more feelings for them.
This was the first book I've read by Elin Hilderbrand, and I really enjoyed it. While I would initially classify it as a chick lit beach read, it deals with some serious issues that make it a little less fluff. There's the gorgeous "Sconset setting, the women and the beach house, marital and family issues. But there's also cancer. The characters are really well developed, all different and compelling in their own ways. Hilderbrand's writing is flawless and easy, I couldn't put this book down.
Alright, if you would delete all pages from about 30% to 75% this book might have gotten 4 stars.
I understand that sometimes life gets you down and occasionally you might feel like there's nothing left except despair, but seriously, I just hate people who hide all their problems inside and then are surprised when they get sick physically.
I don't even know where Nantucket it...
The only time I've ever even heard of the island were those bottled juice drinks they sold at specialty high-level stores and breakfast places made by Nantucket...
presumably from the island but who knows?
Twenty pages in, you'll be ready to drop everything and head for the beach yourself." I was only expecting fluff.So when I ended up neglecting all chores around the house for an entire day while I devoted all my spare, non-parenting time to reading this book that I was hard-pressed to put down, I was really surprised.
This book is, indeed, the story of three women who travel to the beaches of Nantucket for a summer, but it's also about so much more than that.
To me, those are books that are picked up and easily put down.
Melanie, after several failed attempted to conceive, discovers she is pregnant.
Right after her husband tells her he is cheating on her with his co-worker.Brenda , a prominent professor, has a scandalous affair with an older student that got her fired from her job Vickie, mother to two small boys, has been diagnosed with lung cancer.
Brenda was an awful woman and I hated her chapters.
I think my eyes got stuck in my head from rolling so much.
Melanie was a huge whiner and I was not happy with the direction that her story went.
It is about these three ladies in their 30’s that go to Nantucket to get away from their life issues from CT and NY.
Then we have Melanie, who is a sweet, gentle, caring, loving lady but has her own issues to deal with.
She packs up her things and leaves for Nantucket with her friend Vickie (who you’ll meet) to run away from her husband for the summer, but finds out while she’s there, she is pregnant with a baby girl.
You can’t help but to think, he just wants motherly love in his life and he’ll find it with Vickie!
This is the story of three women and the trials that life brings to them. It is a bittersweet novel depicting the importance of family and friends when life hits a rough patch. It also demonstrates that one never knows where help might come from. This was a well written fluff novel. It dragged slowly by in certain parts. I felt the end wrapped up too nicely and too neatly for all of the characters. It would be great if life worked in such wonderful ways, but alas I found the ending unrealistic.
It's summer, and even lovers of YA books need a beach read sometimes!
She doesn't know how to handle it--but at least her two boys can play at the beach if she's at the family cabin.
Brenda is running away--she was just fired as a university professor for sleeping with one of her lit students, even though he was older than her.
Melanie, however, knows that after years of trying, she is now finally pregnant.All three women have some stories to tell and I was fascinated.
Josh, the boys' babysitter, adds in the romance/intrigue, but also has a great story to read about.
Maybe I don't like "chick lit" or a "great beach read" but Barefoot doesn't even come remotely close to either of these.
I realize this is fiction, but I personally like fiction to have a story line that at least makes sense.
Sadly, Barefoot fails there also.
Not many lung cancer patients are out dining, drinking and dancing after receiving chemo.
I would fire my baby sitter if he was drinking while he was responsible for my children, not give him coffee to sober up.
I couldn't find any developed characters, good story line, or elegant prose in Barefoot.
A college student home for the summer meets the women upon their arrival at the airport and eventually ends up working for them to watch Vicki's 2 boys each day.
His presence in the story seems to confirm the fact that Brenda and Melanie are very self centered women, because instead of helping Vicki out as they were intended to do, they instead let a stranger do it, while they wallow in their own pain.
But I like this type of story, because it is realistic.I recommend that women who are reading Romance Novels or like Chick Lit put Elin Hilderbrand books on their list of things to read.
This was my first Elin Hilderbrand novel and frankly, I will never read another one.
Can someone please tell me why this book was a national bestseller?
It read like a soap opera would if it were a novel.
The characters were one dimensional, at best.
I kept waiting for a climax to the book and there never was one.
And Josh, he might have been the only character that had potential but he just goes away in the end and we don't even know what happened to him.
It was an awful book.
Are all her books this horrible???
I never fail to shed a few tears when reading any novel by EH.
The tale is entertaining enough, but I think that the author has failed to fully develop the characters in the story.
Josh was not portrayed in depth, and as a result, I had difficulty in understanding his attraction or interest in these three older women.
I think that I would have become significantly involved as a reader if Josh had been developed as a more complex character and if I could have understood him better.
I failed to understand the need for this repetition.
It was not, in my opinion, Elin Hilderbrand's best work, as I did prefer 'A Summer Affair' as an entertaining, light read.
The story of three women and their young, male babysitter unfurls during the hot summer in Nantucket.
Vicki has lung cancer, Brenda, Vicki’s younger sister is in disgrace after having an affair with one of her students and Melanie, Vicki’s friend, is newly pregnant with a long fought for baby, only to discover her husband is having an affair.
Josh is a twenty one year old writing student on his summer holidays in the right place at the right time.Vicki and Brenda have inherited a little cottage on the island so have decided to spend the summer there whilst Vicki has her chemotherapy treatment and Brenda sorts herself out emotionally whilst alsoTo read the rest of this review (and more!), please visit Trashionista
The criticisms of this book may be true but Hilderbrand writes beach books that are like candy. I love them!
This is about 3 friends that have had catastrophic recent events in their lives, who escape for the summer to Nantucket. Very good character/relationship study.
Lovely book. Heart wrenching at times. Definitely deals with real life situations.
I really enjoyed this book.
I love this author and I appreciate her work for exactly what it is. I can always count on her books to be the escape to Nantucket I often need but never actually do.
Rated 3.5
Not my favorite of this author's beachy books (but not my least favorite either), but still very readable.
I did really identify with one of the characters (Brenda), who was regrouping from a situation in which she had been judged for making a decision that was deemed inappropriate and this resulted in irreparable injury to the life she had worked for years to build for herself.
A reminder that, no matter what other obstacles you are facing personally at the time and no matter how well you may have proven yourself in the past, people can turn on you at the drop of the hat if you don't live up to expectations 100% of the time.

This is the second book by Elin Hilderbrand that I’ve read, and truly, this was again an enjoyable and interesting read.
I am torn between giving this book 3,5 - or 4 stars.
The characters are likeable & quite realistic, often making the wrong choices, but learning from it.
The story’s absolutely nicely written and it flows easily.My favorite character was Josh without a doubt; I adored that young man!
I also liked his Dad. Vicki was the best developed female character of this summer story.
Her unspoken message to Brenda regarding her boys towards the end of the book was very touching and inspiring.
"Oh poor us! We are just so fabulously wealthy and have so many problems! We just have to spend the summer on an island doing nothing but wallowing in our sorrow! And even though we aren't, like, working or anything we are still going to hire someone to watch the kids! And it's a boy, isn't that so funny? Hahahaha a guy watching kids, just imagine that! And we will drag him into all our rich people problems and ruin his happy summer too!"Ugh. Just awful.
Don't bother. There are too many good books to waste time on this one. I picked up the book because of the cover. Sea, sand, beach, Nantucket. . . ahh. I gave it 167 pages, skimming due to it's dull, slow pace. Pathetic, no, these women aren't even pathetic, just flat, uninteresting women. Can't take another page.
