https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/213843.Is_Paris_Burning_
You get your money’s worth from these two, every chapter greets you with irony, tragedy, comedy, pathos or joy in a fast-paced tale.The Allies did not want to go to Paris for a simple reason, once they took Paris they would have to feed and fuel the city, taking valuable resources away from the fighting forces.
There is some repetition…the battle only lasts 6 days after all.It was a bit frustrating to see DeGaulle claim the credit for liberating Paris but the French 2nd Armored Division did their fair share of the fighting.
Hitler’s plan was to reduce the city to rubble if Allied troops got too close.
He didn’t know that the Allies were planning to bypass Paris, and of course the resistance fighters didn’t know Paris was rigged to blow up.
Throw into the mix the unlikely hero of the story: General Dietrich von Choltitz, the newly-appointed military governor of Paris.
You'll have to read the book to see how he helped keep the different incendiary elements from blowing up long enough to keep Paris from blowing up.You get a truly gripping account of living in occupied Paris, and a sense of just how close the world came to losing it.
Awesome
Collins & Lapierre were successful writers of popular history in the mid 20th century.
the memories of Paris's last year under the Nazis were less than 20 years old.From the attempts of downtrodden Parisians to find food, to German officers who were later willing to reminisce with the authors, to the ruthless maneuvering between the forces of de Gaulle and the Communist French Resistance, our view is moving and memorable.
I was reading about Liberation Day on the bus, and had to keep wiping my eyes because Collins & Lapierre had recreated the relief and joy so richly.My favorite non-fiction reread of 2014.
Here is a true and well researched account of the last days of the occupation of Paris and its liberation told in a gripping and fast paced tone.
The authors are really successful in their true life account of the spontaneous outbursts of joys of a populace on the liberation of a beautiful city which groaned under the rigid occupation of German forces for more than four years.
In the true life account there were no heroes and villains but only winners and losers.
But ultimately the monuments of Paris survived and stand a mute testimony to the courageous acts, sacrifices, tragedies and triumphs of a generation.
An entertaining read.
An historical account written by two journalists.
The book is now fifty-two years old and might be rather dated since several decades of historical research has occurred since it's initial publication.
However I don't believe it's as important since most of the book is made up of first hand accounts.
The writers do take some "poetic license" when it comes to such details as internal thoughts and colorful details that they fail to document, but at the time the book was written such details were just part of the craft.
Keep that in mind when reading this book.
Even with such minor quibbles it's an excellent read.
Difficult, emotional read.
It is an amazing account of the final days of nazi rule but you will need to read up on French history a bit too and the political implications of allied forces to save Paris.. the main characters are very well portrayed and speaks of the underlying history.. Good read!
I enjoyed the first hand accounts, but since this book was written in the 60s one has to wonder how much spin people were giving them.
It's probably best read either by someone like me, with only a passing familiarity with what happened, or patient historically minded types who are willing to overlook the sometimes excessive liberty taken with the narrative by the authors-we occasionally get the dying thoughts of people-to get to some first hand accounts.
I will say though, if you don't already know the story of the liberation of Paris the book is at times frustrating because it's easy to get lost in the "stories strung together to tell you what happened" style of the book.
I saw the movie version of this book years before getting around to reading it.
Like all of the Collins-Lapierre collaborations, it's an engrossing, fast-going read.
Apparently Mom wasn't too interested in movies, but I, like the dog, was always willing to go out and, so, saw many dozens of films with him through the years.The most memorable scene of the film was of an American tank stopped somewhere in downtown Paris.
The crew takes a break, everyone lighting cigarettes.
At this point Dad interrupts my absorption in the film to point out an anachronism: some of the cigarettes have filters!
¿Quieren saber qué pasó en París en agosto de 1944? La gran responsabilidad de detallar cada paso de la liberación de París recae en esta magnífica novela. Cada plaza, cada grupo de la resistencia, cada foto, anécdotas impresionantes, parióticas, desgarradoras, se encuentran en este libro. Al terminar de leerlo, descubrirás que ya conoces esta hermosa ciudad y agradeces que no haya sido destruida. ¡Vive la France!Oh La la París!! Después la hicieron película, en una muy buena pero lamentablemente reducida versión.
This historical thriller explains in great detail what happened when German Nazis retreated from France - well, they were pushed out. Compared to Follett’s The Fall Of Giants, another historical warfare work, the point of view of Lapierre and Collins’ work is closer to the action. That may stem from their first-hand battlefield experience in more recent conflicts, either as journalists or serving their country. The result is five star plus.
Every few years I read this book again. It's not the writing that I give a 5: it's the comprehensive (non-fiction) telling of what life was like in occupied Paris that I can never get enough of. Makes my imagination go wild.
I've read a history of the Resistance and a biography of De Gaulle but this book is the best I have found to pull together this particular piece of history.
It gives a very hands-on picture of the Resistance infighting between Communists, Gaullists and those who just wanted the Germans gone, by whatever means, who were caught in the middle.
And given the series of astonishing coincidences that led to the eventual liberation of Paris, one can only conclude that God wanted to save it!
"Is Paris Burning?" is both a large scale and intimate recounting of the 3 weeks just before and after the liberation of Paris in August of 1944.
On the large scale is the story of negotiations among the Allies, DeGaulle's supporters and the communist led resistance movement as well as communications between high ranking German officials.
Of additional large scale interest is the conflict between the supporters of DeGaulle and the communist led faction in their attempts to seize control of the French government.
It was interesting as history and as a look at life in Paris near the end of the war, but as an audiobook it was challenging trying to follow all of the various characters, some with names that sounded (to my ears at least) alike or unrecognizable as distinct words my brain could latch onto.
What's funny is that the film did help some, but if I hadn't been listening to the audiobook I might not have been able to follow the implications of some of what was going on in the film.
The film concentrates more on his role to help political prisoners and pointing out the obvious to von Choltitz.
Collins and Dominique LaPierre have put together a history that follows some of the participants on both sides and that makes it more personal and interesting.
Adolph Hitler had ordered Paris leveled and its bridges bombed.
He continually asked "Is Paris Burning?" How Paris avoided being burned to the ground the the world losing all the beautiful history and architecture of the Louvre, Palais du Luxembourg, Eiffel Tower and its bridges may surprise some readers.
This is a completely absorbing history for anyone who is interested in World War II and the liberation of Paris from Nazi control.
-Interesante en los detalles que rodean al evento principal.-Género.
Novela Histórica (pero especial, porque se acerca más al ensayo y la historia que a la propia novela).Lo que nos cuenta.
Narración en tercera persona y en pasado de los acontecimientos que llevaron al responsable militar alemán de la zona del gran París, el general Dietrich von Choltitz, a tomar la actitud que tomó frente al avance aliado hacia la capital francesa en verano de 1944, además de muchos pequeños eventos en los que participaron personas más o menos anónimas durante esos días tan importantes para París durante la Segunda Guerra Mundial.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
If Hitler couldn't have Paris, he didn't want anyone else to have it either.
So he instructed his commander, General Cholnitz, to destroy the city in the event of impending liberation by the Allies.
The hero of this book is this German commander, who decided to wait it out, day-by-day, to see whether the Allies or the SS would get there first.
The race, as it is seen from all sides, is full of incident and drama.
I came away with real admiration for Cholnitz, who defied Hitler and saved the Louvre, the Eiffel Tower and Notre Dame.
This is such a fabulous book. It puts such a human face on WW2. Eisenhour is running out of "petrol" and has to decide whether to by-pass Paris so he can get to Germany faster, and Hitler has told one of his general to torch Paris. The German general decides to send a fellow thru the German lines to Eisenhour and explain to him what is happening, and the guy has a heart attack. Really a great book. It is old.The general said I keep getting messages from Hitler--"Is Paris Burning?"
I liked the book as it gave me info about what was happening in Paris near the close of WWll. While it was an interesting book, I experienced a lot frustration trying to remember the various French and German characters and what they did. As usual for books with lots of characters, I make a brief list of the character as I go along to remember who does what. That helped!
A really good documentary, regarding (Adolf Hitler's) chosen second in command General Dietrich von Choltitz to defend and destroy the city of Paris. For four years of seizure, since June 14, 1940 until August 25, 1944 from the Nazi's, the Parisian secretly communicating their allies (the U.S/England)for help, and the happy day of liberation.
This book was recommended with an American I met in Paris. It provides a fascinating look at the Vichy occupation. While obviously our forebears here in the USA suffered during WWII, it is something else entirely to read about what was happening overseas, in the actual theaters of war.
So many characters to keep track of. The second half of the book was much more focused and as a result, more interesting than the first part. Interesting subject, but not as well written (to me at least) as Freedom at Midnight.
A history fictionalized so that it reads like a gripping exciting novel. I read this many years ago, not long after it first came out and have never forgotten it.
For example, the allies originally planned to bypass Paris and proceed directly to Germany thinking that would end the war earlier.
But through some unforeseen circumstances including pressure from Charles de Gaulle and his political plans and verbal signals from the German General in Paris who was reluctant to carry out Hitler’s orders to destroy the city, the allies were practically forced into liberating Paris earlier and may have added some delay in ending the war.This was very well researched and provided more details than I will ever remember.
This is a painstakingly researched book.
The author has deemed no tiny detail irrelevant enough to eclipse a historic event such as the Liberation of Paris.
Dive into a colorful parade of enough characters to fill up a telephone directory, who get (maybe) a paragraph each.
Them they disappear, and just when you think you have got rid of them (just like you distant relatives) they surface and expect you to remember evrything about them.But oh god, this book is better than fiction.
The god-like ability of the narration to peak into every avenue of Paris and stream out a frustratingly concise description of everything happening is outstanding.Highly recommended!
Il libro affranta la liberazione di Parigi con uno stile asciutto e incalzante.Il libro non manca di presentare il lato emotivo dei personaggi, condendo i fatti con opinioni e pensieri degli attori coinvolti.I lati migliori del romanzo sono la sensazione di aderenza storica, l'efficacia nel ricostruire sia i personaggi chiave che i comuni cittadini, ed infine l'approfondimento di un evento decisamente d'impatto.La grande quantità di nomi rende quasi impossibile memorizzare e riconoscere tutti i personaggi, ma questa potrebbe essere una scelta voluta degli autori.
A just brilliant description of liberation of Paris with the suspense, intrigue, courage & heroism in full glory. The sense of anticipation & the research is simply mind boggling. My head is in dizzy after reading this in a sharp. burst of 3 days.WWII did not feel so real, so vivid before. An outstanding chronicle covering all angles of the momentous allied victory, only 1 point of complain is that the author did not give a brief description of political & military happenings post liberation of Paris.
I found it absolutely compelling reading. It's not just an account of the "significant" people and places in this story, but also interspersed with many poignant incidents involving ordinary people. In fact, there are a lot of people and places to keep track of in the book, and I am in awe of the research that these two young men (35 and 33 at the time of the book's publication in 1965) did in order to write this fascinating book.
