https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41325.The_Sculptress
A writer, who is dealing with emotional damages of her own, is assigned by her publisher to write a book about the affair.
She uncovers several discrepancies between the confession and the facts in the case which lead her to dig ever deeper until she finally reveals the truth and sets a great miscarriage of justice right.
With Ms. Walters we are never sure.
In this particular case, we are left with the uneasy feeling that maybe the truth is still hidden, or has been twisted to suit.
Part of the joy of reading Ms Walters is becoming acquainted with her protagonist.
I don't care what anyone thinks, I LOVE this author's work! Disturbing, yup. Gory, yup. Dark, dark, dark! Does this mean I'm mentally sick, probably, but I don't mind because this woman knows her ____! Could not put this book down! Thought about it for days afterwards! That my friend are the signs of a great book.
Rosalind Leigh is commissioned to write a book about Olive Martin, an obese woman known as The Sculptress, after hacking up her mother and sister with an ax and rearranging the pieces.
Olive convinces Rosalind that she did not commit the crime, in spite of her own confession and a mountain of evidence.
Initially, I was quite interested in Olive and her mindset, the reasons as to why she may or may not have committed the atrocity, and the influences on her.
Towards the end, when the tension should be building, it becomes confusing and the story oddly boring.
In early 1990's England author Roz Leigh investigates the gruesome murders of a mother and daughter six years before.
All the journalists' "W's" have been answered except WHY the murders were committed.
So at the behest of her boss, Roz sets out to find motivation.
She plans to write a book on this case.
Roz finds inconsistencies and niggling questions.
She sets out to prove the girl's innocence and that Olive has been wrongly imprisoned, with the aid of a retired policeman turned restauranteur.
I liked the psychological aspect, revealed gradually through Roz's interviews for her book.
Olive, The Sculptress of the title almost vanished from the book as we were dragged along by rather tedius, predictable and utterly unnecessary sub plots.I would have enjoyed the book alot more if it had focussed entirely on The Sculptress and Ros instead of shifting focus to a banal "failing resturant" storyline and an eye rollingly dull love story.
Rather than feeling like Ros had been submerged by the mind of a psychopath and was tackling the personal psychological trauma this would inevitably bring, it was more like watching someone skip about on a Famous Five adventure, bungling burglars and all, ending up with the dream man, dream house and dream book deal at the end of it.
Se va este libro para mi top 10 de este año 2016.La verdad se encuentra en un radio muy limitado, pero los errores son inmensos.¿Para qué leer la escultora?1.
Las personajes protagónicas, tienen una personalidad firme y eso hacen que tengan carácter.
3. La crítica que hace a las apariencias en la sociedad y a las minorías es muy bien sustentado.4.
Los elementos detectivescos y de novela negra al principio te pueden desconcertar, pero son importantes para esos giros de tramas que te dejaran helado.5.
Las escenas de asesinato son frías y monstruosas.6.
Chilling. If this book doesn't frighten you, then you don't know that many monsters who just happens to be humans.
Minette Walters' second novel. This author is a natural storyteller and hardly puts a single foot wrong in her complex, psychological plotting. Her characterisation has tightened up considerably with this second book. A riveting read; I romped through it in an afternoon, unfortunately. Yet another case of wishing I could learn, somehow, how to read more slowly.
Una novela en la que no todo es lo que parece o sí?Olive ha confesado un crimen horrible: ha matado a su madre y a su hermana. una familia modélica, una hermana hermosa y caritativa, ella mentirosa y horrible.Y entra en escena Roz: con una vida personal turbulenta y en la que para seguir trabajando se le exige escribir un libro sobre la matanza cometida por Olive.Un misterio que se adentra en la psicología tenebrosa de Olive y que las apariencias son solo apariencias.trepidante, un libro de 4,5 estrellas.
The Sculptress, by Minette Walters, follows Roz's investigation, a bit of amateur detecting that leaves many a closet bereft of its skeletons.
Walters gives Roz and her new beau a break in the end, letting them have a view of the ocean as they make love, but given the darkness pervading all relationships in the novel, it is questionable that this love, like the others, is any more lasting or less corrosive than the salty spray coming in off of the ocean.
The Sculptress is the first novel I've read by Minette Walters, and I will be reading more.
GOLDEN OLDIE THE SCULPTRESSMinette WaltersA very dear friend wanted to share one of her favorite books with me and I couldn't be more pleased to be sharing it with you! A journalist has been assigned to write a book about the woman named the Sculptress. She was found with her mother and sister dead in her arms and pled guilty to the murders. There's a lot more to the story and I'm sure you will enjoy it.Thank you Alice!! You're the best!!
I decided to try a Minette Walters - found it to be well written - interesting characters, the autobio writer and 'the Sculptress', an immensely obese woman, falsely accused of murder.As far as murder-mystery goes - it's extremely well done - if you like that kind of thing.
Walters introduces her characters early on, throws in a number of suspects, an irrelevant but intriguing subplot, and a few clues, and then allows the reader to form a conclusion which, while seeming rational (and allowing the reader to think "man, am I smart for figuring this out in the first sixty pages!"), turns out to be utterly absurd, and as the book comes to a close the plot twists come fast and furious.
Not that they weren't always there, we were just lulled into a false sense of security.While I consider The Breaker a superior novel, this isn't to say that Walters' more visible manipulations in The Sculptress makes the latter a bad novel.
Walters' books are characterized as psychological thrillers, and they certainly do have many of the traits of that subgenre.
In The Sculptress a non-fiction writer, still reeling from the death of her young daughter, is being pressed by her agent to get busy and write another book.
She decides to interview a woman known as The Sculptress who is in prison for the murder and dismemberment of her mother and sister several years before.
As she gets to know the prisoner, she begins to doubt the guilt of the self-confessed murderer.
(This is fairly unusual for a mystery novel and one of the caliber of Minette Walters' works.)Years before, Olive Martin confessed to the horrific crime of killing her mother and sister and then trying to dissect them in time to hide the evidence from her father.
Enter into the story, Roz Leigh, a former best-selling author in need of a book to keep her publishing career alive.
Readers will realize there's something more to Roz than within the first few chapters and Walters shows and doesn't tell what's occurred to audience.
One of the early works by Walters, "The Sculptress" shows the mystery writer on the top of her game.
From Google Books: Everyone knows about Olive Martin, the huge and menacing woman who was found five years ago with the carved-up bodies of her mother and younger sister.
And everyone knows not to anger "the Sculptress" even now that she is safely locked in prison for a minimum of twenty-five years.
When journalist Rosalind Leigh accepts a commission to write a book about Olive, she finds herself wondering what lies behind all these facts that everyone knows.
When Roz first visits her in prison, she finds that Olive is not quite what she expected.
One of the best mystery novels I've read!
If you want a richly complex mystery novel for summer beach reading, I would recommend this book.
In this novel, Rosalind Lee (Roz) has been advised by her publisher to write a book on a convicted murderer, Olive Martin, or be dropped.
After her first meeting with Olive, Roz is convinced that something is amiss.
The woman she meets in no way fits the image of a woman who would brutally slaughter her own mother and sister.
This book is a Crime Choice of the Year awardee, and well deserved!It has a very intricate plot but you won't be confused with the story.The character of the sculptress is very real.
Sometimes i hate her.
But there are times i took pity on her.
Her character evolved so beautifully from the first page up to the last one.
the author is a superb storyteller.
but once the story behind the killing is revealed, you'll see the light, that he/she is capable of such a horrific crime.i recommend this book to those who want to be shocked.
I picked up a couple books by this author some time ago, based entirely on her name (my sister-in-law is also named Minette, and she is the only other one I know).
I didn't originally expect to become attached to these characters or this book, but I finished reading it at 2 in the morning and realized I had basically not put it down most of the day.
The mystery aspect is well done -- did Olive Martin really hack her mother and sister to death?
Plenty of red herrings and confusing psychology in the book, with plenty of clues to follow.
I thought it all came together nicely and I developed a real affection for Sister Bridget.
It passed the time and held my interest for the most part, so I'd continue reading books by this author (I've read a few previously).I listened to the audiobook, and the narration was odd.
I've never heard a book that takes place entirely in England be narrated by an American (or at least not one that was speaking in their native American accent).
It was jarring to keep going back and forth between the American narration of action and thought and the various British accents of dialogue.
A lot of time they came out New Zealand, New England, or American Southern.
I have not read as many Minette Walters novels as I should.
I am reminded of this whenever I start one.
This novel is surely one of the best of its genre - a fascinating psychological crime thriller.
It is very much of its time, the 90s realism of criminal psychology, full-bodied characters, sub-texts and twists.
Walters gets the characters so correct, so believable, that one almost wonders if she is not a bit of a close psychopath herself.
Her understanding of the human condition, and of the secrets we all keep, is nothing short of amazing.
It is a superbly written and thoroughly enjoyable novel.
There are some authors who have embraced their dark sides. In fact they've embraced humanity's shadow, looked it in the eye and dissected it.Olive Martin is a grotesquely obese woman who has been imprisoned for murdering, and dismembering the bodies of, her mother and sister. Rosalind Leigh is a best-selling author who has been asked to write Olive's story. Rosalind is dealing with her own problems, but she realises that there are discrepancies between the facts of the murders and Olive's confession.Minette Walters is a twisted Barbara Vine, and if that doesn't scare you, nothing will.
This mystery is riveting to the end. I literally could not put it down until I read the last page. Along with the satisfying mystery, the characters' development and the depth of their personalities made this a total winner. This is only my second Minette Walters novel, and I can't wait to read more!
A great mystery with depth in characterization and with enough twists and turns to keep you on edge of the seat.I loved Walter's writing and loved the ending where enough clues were left out to keep the readers guessing what really happened and the possibility of an alternate ending..
Fantastic! I can't wait to check out her other books because this was one of the best mystery/thrillers I've read. Its great strength is its depiction of the psychological ambiguities that reside in all of us.
Walters is amazing at setting the reader up to think one thing, then switching it all around to show you something else entirely. And from then on, you're pretty much screwed and will never be able to decide what's really gone on. I love that.
I am really starting to like this author.This book was exactly what I needed from a crime mystery book.I liked the main character and I enjoyed the romance.I also liked that the end was kinda open to intepretation.Wll definitely read.more of Walters.
I was requires to read this book in high school for English class. I loved the book and have been reading Minette Walters' books ever since. I consider her to be one of my favourite authors.
Yay! Just what I was looking for. So dark.
Intriguing psychological mystery from beginning to end.
