https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16158558-dark-witch
Well, as a Nora Roberts fan, this is going to be really painful to write…When I found out that the new work of one of my favorite authors of all time was a trilogy placed in the magic green mountains of of Erin (Ireland), I was sooo excited!
My favorite trilogy by Nora is “Gallaghers of Ardmore” where I first met the amazing Ireland setting, and those who know Nora’s work can tell that she have a talent for portraying scenarios.
I love that country to bits and I don’t think any modern author can fully describe Ireland’s geography, culture and people like Nora Roberts.
I thought this book was boring as hell.
I've never struggled so much to get through a Nora Roberts book before in my life, but this took me a week to finish.
It was different, and had high hopes for the rest of it.
But, after we got back to the present time, and met Iona and all the rest of the gang, I just kept feeling that I'd read it all before in several of her other trilogies, and this was just more like a re-read.
I found myself just skimming through much of the book because I was just so bored with it.
The writing was sloppy, there was barely any plot, and the characters were all flat.Iona, the female lead, literally says anything and everything she thinks!
It felt like the author assumes we have read all her previous witch based books and therefore we know what this struggle is about.
At times, I found myself imputing motives and emotions from her other books that were similar just to fill in the gaps.All in all, a real disappointment as a read.
There was no chemistry between the leads, no real climax to the story, and no caring on my part whether they lived or died!
Full review can be found here: http://skizzles22hu.blogspot.com/2013...*** My Review: 5 Magickal Stars!There is just something so enchanting about Nora Roberts' writing. The way she weaves together a story always has me captivated. It'd been awhile since I read one of her books, but nothing had changed about her writing style. It, and the magical story-line, still had the power to enchant me.The prologue excellently brought me into the story, and I was immediately intrigued to see where this mag
"Love shouldn't be hard." -Iona "There I think you're wrong.
And that's what she did with Iona and Boyle (as well as the rest of the characters).
I loved Boyle's protectiveness, his total understanding of her craft and the magick, and his alpha-male gruffness.
I loved the relationships between the characters.
From the strong, familial bond with Branna and Connor to the deep, passionate love between Iona and Boyle, I loved watching all of them interact with each other.
I love reading about close friendships and circles, and they each had their own personalities and strengths, their own mishaps and weaknesses.
This entire portion goes on for 40 pages, but that's not a bad thing- it was pretty interesting, and I'm hoping she touches on the history of Cabhan and the Dark Witch a little more in the next books.Iona learns how to harness and control her magick through working with Branna, and she grows both in her job and relationship.
I don't know if it was just that Boyle is a harder male character than I've read from Nora in awhile, or if there was little to no chemistry- I just wasn't happy when they finally got together.
It smacks of being a poor rewrite of her Three Sisters Island trilogy.::Possible Spoiler Alert::From the beginning of the book, it was a rewrite of Dance Upon the Air (which I adore.) I should have known I was in for disappointment when she reused the wolf, and then branded it with the same pentagram that Mia used in the Three Sisters Island trilogy.Iona (Nell) makes a huge life change (Jude, Jewels of the Sun - also sent by her Gran) and moves to Ireland.
I'm betting she has also reused the Shawn/Brenna (Tears of the Moon) relationship - the two that grew up like siblings that will discover their love is not just platonic.Worst of it is that I don't even feel invested in the characters.
Great world-building, weak romance, but still worth the read.
Sprinkled throughout the book are a few scenes where Iona and Boyle meet, chat, wink at each, flirt some more, sleep together, have a misunderstanding, make up, and then profess their undying love.
The meat of this book is far more focused on the story of the Dark witch and her magically-gifted descendants living in Ireland.
I think the book is probably better for it, because the romance itself was pretty lackluster stuff.I absolutely plan to stick with this series as I enjoyed the world building, loved the Ireland setting, and was intrigued by all of the secondary characters.
3.5 StarsThere’s just something about reading a magic themed story by Nora Roberts that always makes me want to dance naked under a full moon chanting ‘as we will, so mote it be.’ I just can’t help myself.If I’ve learned anything in my years reading Nora, it’s that I tend to enjoy her fantasy/PNR themed stories more than their contemporary counterparts, and my experience was no different here.
I also adored the Irish setting and I enjoyed the overall premise of the story at large, which kept me engaged and intrigued enough to want more.Ultimately, this was not my favourite Nora book (by far) but it was still a solid start to another magical trilogy.
One word describes this book.
WEAK.
The characters were weak, the storyline was weak.
The book started out GREAT, then boom just fell apart and reading it was like watching paint dry!
I've always been a huge fan of the authors trilogies but wow, this book was just a mess.
It seemed rushed and just a rewritten version of 2 other trilogies shes written.
Never read a Nora Roberts book where I didn't connect with the characters, UNTIL NOW.
Sad this book was such a let down after waiting months for it to come out.
:( 3 stars is being generous.
Iona gets more than she ever hoped for when her cousins embrace her and help her get a job with their friend Boyle McGrath, doing what she loves...caring for and riding horses.
With Iona's arrival, the circle is now complete and the cousins must now contend with what evil remains from Cabhan.
What worked for meI absolutely loved that this story takes place in Ireland, complete with the vernacular in the dialogue between the characters.
The book set the stage for the next stories in this trilogy and I'm anxiously anticipating them.
Five magickal stars for Dark Witch, the first book in Nora Roberts' The Cousins O'Dwyer TrilogyCurling up with a Nora Roberts' novel has the same effect on me as nibbling on a chocolate bar: I go into a state of bliss.
Now Ms. Roberts has released the first book, Dark Witch, in a new series, The Cousins O'Dwyer Trilogy, and I feel like someone just gave me a bar of fabulous and sinfully rich French dark chocolate.
This series follows Irish-American Iona Sheehan back to her Irish roots, where she discovers the magic she embodies, her two cousins, and their circle of friends.The book opens with the story of the Dark Witch and her persecutor back in the Middle Ages of Ireland.
And that, my friends is why I love her stories.They never cease to give me chills, leave me looking behind my shoulder, shuddering, and yet simultaneously melting at all the sweet tender and sometimes, heated, moments between the characters.They always bring out an array of feelings and emotions and give me those good old witchy moments I crave for.
When I saw this trilogy, I just knew it was one that I would not only love, but devour and I couldn't have been more right.Roberts sweeps us away to Ireland, to the beautiful lush countryside.
Iona keeps whining how she was lonely and unloved - we know nothing about her!
She mentions her parents being cold - we didn't get any examples, so I don't really know what she means!
- The ending made no sense, as they were preparing to attack the evil sorcerer, at no point did the reader find out exactly what their plan was!
The author kept saying things like "as they went over their plan..." etc...
The kept mentioning some circle, all of them fighting, combining their strengths, but when it came to it, Iona rode alone on her horse, to meet the sorcerer alone!!
Perhaps I'd be in a more forgiving mood if I didn't feel like I paid for and read this story already as part of the Three Sisters trilogy Dance Upon the Air. This is very much a condensed version of that one.Why bother with providing the MC with anymore than a cursory back story when you can skip all that and set things up in the 1200's.
There's no joy here, it's all very rote and checking ticks off in the boxes.This is a fine story if you've never read any other Roberts PNR book.
I'd rather re-read the Three Sisters.
I was eagerly looking forward to Dark Witch, and though there have been hints that her writing is slipping, I can't believe how bad this book is.
Cian from the Circle trilogy owns the conflicted anti-hero role; Fin is nothing but a pale (ha, ha) substitute.
Horses do not wear bridles while out to pasture.
And the name Darling for a horse is just too, too precious, as well as being used before, in the Dream trilogy.
Hmmm, seems to be a pattern here...and I will not be finishing the Dark Witch trilogy.
Finally! Nora Roberts' paranormal trilogies are my favorite books of hers. I've been waiting for another.
Find a short review for this on GracelingAccountant.
The main character moves from America to Ireland where everything conveniently falls into place – she is straight away offered a place to live, a job she loves and meets a man she instantly falls in love with.
There is a ‘bad guy’ who is bad and wants to attack her.
There is no reason why he is bad, it’s just an ancient grudge and he wants power.
He randomly attacks her, and she easily fights him off every time.The ‘climax’ was so rushed and lame it was actually cringe-worthy but I think the worst part of this book was how bad the romance was.
I'm an avid Nora Roberts fan, but it was a struggle to complete this book.
The prologue was promising, but the rest of the book disappointed on several levels.
It is difficult to decide who was more annoying, Iona or Branna.
Iona has no filters when she interacts with others, while Branna is locked in her rigid views of the past.
Connor was approachable but Meara was so boring, I kept hoping she would be killed off at some point as a casualty of war.Fin was the only likeable character, but even at his best he is a shadow of Cian from the Circle Trilogy.
Now in the present time, Iona Sheehan, Connor and Branna O'Dwyer, descendants of the Dark Witch must try to stop the evil Cabhan for good.
It’s my second Nora Roberts book I read (Yes I have only managed to read one before and that was years ago) and Dark Witch really don’t make me eager to read another one for a long time.
But I was so sick and tired of this book when I read it then my first review got lost when I was about to save it in Microsoft office Word.
No. Will I ever read a Nora Roberts book again?
Well, when I saw she had a new trilogy coming out about witches I was excited to read her again because her Three Sisters Island (another series she wrote about witches) is one of my favorite series.
My poor managing editor here at The Window Seat had to take my call of disappointment when I finished this book!
If you are a Robert’s fan and you read, Dark Witch, book one of the Cousins O’Dwyer Trilogy, you will find yourself thinking… isn't this book just Three Sisters Island with the Gallagher’s of Ardmore mixed in?For the full review, please go to http://www.thewindowseat13.com/2013/1...
She lies in wait for the sorcerer, to finish him off before she dies.Moving ahead to the present, we have Connor and Branna who are brother and sister descended from Sorcha.
Besides Connor, Branna and Iona, there are also their friends Boyle, Fin and Meara.
She has feelings for Connor, but he's oblivious.Then we have Iona and Boyle, the focus of this book.
I loved seeing the effect of that personality on Boyle, who is pretty serious.
I really enjoyed seeing Iona come into her own as Branna and the others trained her in the magick she needed to know.
Well, this was my first Nora Roberts book that I've ever read.
Which is something considering that she's written 200 books!
I liked the magical element to the story, it's different to other books I normally read.
She kind of grated on my nerves a little with her immaturity.
Roberts never did mention how old she is but I just didn't warm to her.
The romance between her and Boyle wasn't filled with chemistry either.
So I was little disappointed in the romance portion.
I did like the overall story and the other characters so I probably, eventually, will proceed to the next book in the trilogy.
I had taken a break from Nora Roberts' trilogies.
I think this is what allowed me to so enjoy Dark Witch.Too much of the same writing style eventually turns me against an author.
So I have found that taking a calculated break,reading other styles then eventually coming back has kept me interested and the reading fresh and entertaining.
I enjoyed Dark Witch.A wonderful Halloween month read with all the requisite witches,spells,romance, and family drama.The only thing standing in the way of a five star was that the showdown between good and evil was a little anticlimactic.
Which I will read...eventually.
The problem is that we're way past that now and the ideas and ways to present them continuously seem to be recycled.Let me count the ways in just this book/series: there are witches (see also the Three Sisters Island trilogy, and the Key and Circle Trilogies, actually), and Ireland (see also the Born In Trilogy, and Gallaghers of Ardmore Trilogy).
I take LONG breaks between reading any Roberts books anymore.
*Seriously, it feels like it.**Well, will a million books written, the ideas have to stop being original sometime, I suppose.
I always thoroughly enjoy anything by Nora Roberts and this book was no different. I loved that it was set in Ireland, it really was the perfect setting for this story. Add in some magic, witches and a cute love story and I'm sold! I also really loved the beginning that was set in the past and set up the rest of the story for us. And with the way it ended, I'm itching to start the second in the series because I need to know how it all plays out!
The set up is an unknown (Iona, a witch with little knowledge of her craft) comes to Ireland and falls in with a set of friends already established (Conner, Branna, Meara).
I'm assuming the second book will pair Conner with Meara which relates to other trilogies of Roberts' in which the lifetime friends become a couple.
All of these trilogies were well done and the plot (although similar) felt fresh and new in the set-up that Roberts created.The Dark Witch just felt repetitive throughout and I have to say, I was disappointed as an avid Nora Roberts fan.
★★★★ Audiobook has excellent narration, if a bit dramatic at times with the spells. Really enjoyed the book. A perfect March read. Lyrical and descriptive; made me wish I was in Ireland.
★★★★½ Audiobook has excellent narration, if a bit dramatic at times with the spells. Really enjoyed the book. A perfect March read. Lyrical and descriptive; made me wish I was in Ireland.
Readers of "Dark Witch" will continue to follow Iona Sheehan rollercoaster ride to discover the truth about the family secret and on the way found love with Boyle McGrath.Readers of "Dark Witch" will enjoy the way Nora Roberts entwine witches with non-witches characters throughout the book.
By reading "Dark Witch," you will learn how to make candles, soap and natural medicines.I like the way Nora Roberts writes her magical trilogies and always entwines romance.
Also, I like the way Nora Roberts portrays her characters.
Readers would like the way Nora Roberts describes the way Iona learns to use her powers.I recommend this book.
The book starts off in Ireland in the 1200s (if Ireland was called Ireland that long ago) with the story of Sorcha, a dark witch, and how she defeats, but does not destroy, her nemesis, the sorcerer Cabhan.
Then the story switches to present day Ireland, where newly-arrived American Iona connects with her Irish cousins Branna and Connor.
Because they are all magical and directly descended from Sorcha, they instantly know their coming together completes a trilogy, and that means Cabhan is going to rise again, and they must defeat him once and for all.
