https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40881738-red-clocks
Red Clocks would be a horror story for many women, including myself, and yet I felt so emotionally-distanced from the story and all four (or you could say five) perspectives.I have to assume the emotional distance is intentional.
Zumas refers to the four main characters as "The Biographer" (Ro), "The Wife" (Susan), "The Daughter" (Mattie) and "The Mender" (Gin), with the fifth perspective being that of fictional explorer, Eivør Minervudottir, who "The Biographer" is writing a book about.Each of the main four are dealing with womanhood issues that are threatened by the new laws.
DNFed at 20%. I just couldn't get into it!
Red Clocks can be described as a dystopian novel, but it feels entirely contemporary.
Where do larger concepts of woman- and motherhood come into play when discussing women's health?The author asks all these big questions in the grand scheme of things, while also maintaining a certain closeness to its four (arguably, five) main characters.
Another recent release that this book is destined to be compared to is The Power by Naomi Alderman, which I also read this year and really enjoyed, but which for me lacked a sort of emotional intimacy to its characters.
Red Clocks however, reads like both a deeply intimate and emotional character study and a highly complex portrait of a near-future society.
The book proposes a future in which, lacking the assistance of either state or church and in the wake of the ultimate ineffectiveness of public activism and demonstration, women turn increasingly toward the more personal aspects of the political, and toward one another, going underground if necessary, to survive and sustain and maintain some level of empowerment.Also, I just want to comment that so many reviews of recent feminist dystopian fictions basically say something along the lines of “Ho hum, not another one of these, we already have The Handmaid’s Tale and it was perfect” - I really hope you’ve changed your minds now.
I have mixed feelings about “Red Clocks”.......disturbing issues ......disturbing ‘choice’ vagina dialogues...yet all in the context of brilliance- timely & important.
My review reflects my thoughts and feelings which came from reading “Red Clocks”.
WOULD WE EVER ***REALLY*** TURN BACK THE CLOCKS?It’s just so hard to believe our world could feel SO STRONG against women’s rights to the extremes presented in this book.
The only people working their ass off - NOT COMPLACENT- were people fighting like hell to make ‘sure’ gays would ‘not’ be allowed to marry.
how does what I write relate to this book?SAME THING.Are we too complacent to think that we will never turn back the clocks?
It's like a bunch of books got intermixed along with some other material, probably (including oversized to-do lists, random thoughts and all sorts of notes by different people).
Why do we need to see stylised female parts on a book cover?
(*just an afterthought*)Q:Two years ago the United States Congress ratified the Personhood Amendment, which gives the constitutional right to life, liberty, and property to a fertilized egg at the moment of conception.
At her age, not much better than a turkey baster.She was placed on the adoption wait-list three years ago.
“Red Clocks” might sound like a dystopian novel, but plenty of conservative politicians are plotting to make it a work of nonfiction.
Feminist writers of speculative fiction don’t need the bizarre rituals of Margaret Atwood’s 1985 classic, “The Handmaid’s Tale,” or even the fantastical elements of Naomi Alderman’s terrific recent novel, “The Power.” Bridles designed for women’s bodies are already hanging in legislators’ barns, just waiting for Ruth Bader Ginsburg to die.The ordinariness of the world that Zumas imagines is perhaps the most unsettling aspect of “Red Clocks,” her second novel.
”The sea does not ask permission or wait for instruction. It doesn’t suffer from not knowing what on earth, exactly, it is meant to do. Today its walls are high, white lather torn, crashing hard at the sea stacks. ‘Angry sea,’ people say, but to the biographer the ascribing of human feeling to a body so inhumanly itself is wrong. The water heaves up for reasons they don’t have names for.”   ”She was just quietly teaching history when it happened. Woke up one morning to a president-elect she had
In addition to valid marriage licenses, all adoptions will require approval through a federally regulated agency, rendering private transactions criminal.”We see this story unfold through the eyes of four women, The Biographer – Ro, who is writing a book about Eivør Mínervudottír, The Daughter – Mattie, a student, adopted, with dreams of attending an esteemed math school finds herself pregnant around the time her boyfriend has moved on to another girl, The Wife – Susan, whose thoughts are about her dissatisfaction with her life, her marriage, the distance she feels between what she has and what she wants, and The Mender – Gin, a woman who the townspeople think of as a bit of a hermit who might be a witch, a woman who lives alone in the forest and provides “cures” for ailments and assorted other troubles, for those who come seeking.
It is absolutely brilliant, and I expect to see it not only on "Best Books of the Year" lists, but also "Best Books of the Decade." It's that good.We follow five different women whose lives interweave in a small coastal town in Oregon.
The most obvious repercussion of this is that abortion is now illegal, but Zumas dives deep into the actual implications of such an amendment.
Much of the book is dedicated to the varied ways in which these women don't have control over their own lives, don't have agency, and by removing them as the subjects of sentences, Zumas creates a beautiful syntactical construction that mirrors the themes of the book.
The women even start off being unnamed, but that overused means of creating a nonperson or every-person is then quickly undermined by them being identified by other characters.
Perhaps their choices in this new world are supposed to set them apart, but none of their challenges could be linked to the dystopian theme of the book in any real sense- their conflicts are all happening right now to women in apparently civilised, enlightened countries, so what's the point in creating this near-future world?
I mean, just read The Handmaid's Tale for a start.
Told through multiple perspectives (all female), this is a near future dystopia with very probably legislation that outlaws abortion, IVF, and adoption outside of straight married couples for the entire country.
The female characters are known first as these new archetypes - the Mender, the Wife, the Biographer, the Daughter, etc.
I had one question - the partner of The Mender, is he known as a different name to someone else?
Dystopia is now....
I could just not get on board and I am not quite sure where my problems lie.I love the plausibility of the world Leni Zumas has created here, it feels organic in a way that is scary and frustrating.
Her world is plausible and aggrevating and often feels contemporary rather than speculative.My main problem were the characters that often felt underdeveloped and not particularly fleshed-out.
I do think that the storylines converged nicely in the end and that the character development if slight did work.I enjoyed Leni Zumas’ particular prose a whole lot and thought it added a nice layer of urgency and intimacy to an otherwise distant book.
Yes, it’s feminist—in the sense that these women rule their own lives within the confines of the law.
But, this story was the most realistic dystopian novel I’ve ever read.
As you read, you observe how these women deal with these laws as they apply to their own lives.
I enjoyed reading about each of these women as they led their very different lives.
I recommend this book to everyone but especially people who love dystopia, feminist reads, or who are just curious how the world would look if women lost their reproductive rights.
Other than that, it feels like popular fiction, complete with disgruntled housewives, teachers who dream of having children but are denied, little girls who get pregnant and must suffer all kinds of horrors in this realistic world of insanity.
It says nothing more than what I already believe, that women should not have to suffer, either economically or legally or socially, for the desire NOT to be saddled with a real and true burden.
Not unless they're able and willing to take care of said burden.And yet, what makes this novel popular is the fear that this little freedom will soon go away.
This book is so good precisely because it is not dismissible science fiction but rather feels more like a cautionary tale of what could happen tomorrow if we don't keep a close watch on things.
Just read this recent chilling opinion piece from the NY Times to see just how close to reality this novel actually is.All this makes this book sound like a polemic on reproductive rights but the experience of reading it is much more nuanced character study.
I underlined countless sentences and dogeared dozens of pages because I was so thrilled by her unpredictable words.“She doesn't want to skip the Math Academy.(She kicks Nouri’s gothsickle ass at calculus.)Or to push it out.
Why not use it?”Dystopian and speculative fiction aspects aside, Red Clocks is primarily a story about the lives of four interweaving women who want four very different things.
The Mender wants to live a quiet life alone with her animals.
Red Clocks is a beautiful novel about what it’s like to be a woman in a world that takes away your choice.
While I liked the detached, disjointed writing style that Zumas employs, referring to her female protagonists by their title -- The Biographer, The Wife, The Daughter, and The Mender -- to highlight how difficult it can be for women to define themselves as individuals, I do think Zumas could have leaned into this theme a little harder and plumbed the women's stories with a little more depth.
There are so many books that do lean in that way, including The Handmaid's Tale, of course, but also, more recently, Forty Rooms and Hausfrau.
On the downside the characters's story arcs were not particularly interesting and their reactions to menstrual-related events never strayed much beyond the obvious, with the exception of the mender, whom I adored.
Too bad her dramatic arc was wrapped up in a B movie plot.
The person who designed this cover should get a medal.
Brava--I'm assuming you are a woman--forgive me if you're not, and my admiration for you has grown all the more strong--and shame on Hachette for not giving you a named credit on the jacket you designed.
It took me a bit to figure out how this book worked. But once I did, I liked it. It's a story about a VERY possible near future where single women can't adopt, or get in vitro, and no one can get safe abortions because they're illegal. So basically, it's the US pre-1973. And that is frightening.
Red Clocks is no romance or “beach read.” Instead, it is a frightening dystopian novel about what happens when politicians successfully manage to push back on women’s reproductive rights little by little, until none are left at all.In Lena Zumas’s near-future America, The Personhood Amendment has made both abortion and in-vitro fertilization illegal, and the Every Child Needs Two Act is about to make it impossible for unmarried people to adopt children.
This is a story of 5 woman there day to day life, their dreams and goals, there desires and struggles.
It shows the choices we make may mean the laying down of other choices- Babies verses having a career, being tied down to living in freedom, and accepting thoes choices or changing direction.
I liked each of these woman following along in their lives and seeing their joys and heartaches their fears and sorrows and their struggles and imperfections.
It's who we are, we are woman and we are important, we need to encourage each other and support each other through the ups and downs in our lives.We are woman hear us roar.
Red Clocks is a dystopian novel, though I could see this future happening with a few wrong turns.
Similar to The Handmaid's Tale, women find themselves in an inequitable society where the Personhood Amendment has granted rights to embryos, IVF is illegal, and of course, abortion is universally banned.This novel features an experimental writing style, which may not be for everyone.
I enjoyed the writing style once I got used to it after a few chapters.
This approach reminds me of favorite dystopian reads--I find it in line with the genre.
But I would argue that in many ways the relatively small step from our world to this world if anything makes the book ultimately more powerful than a fully-fledged dystopia.The bulk of the book is set in a small Oregon coastal town and told from the alternating third party viewpoint of four characters – who in their own chapters are given a label but who are named in the other characters’ chapters.Ro/The Biographer is in her early 40s – an unmarried high school teacher she is unsuccessfully trying artificial insemination, knowing her adoption and fostering chances are disappearing.
Due to the subject matter, Red Clocks is reminiscent of The Handmaid's Tale and other dystopian feminist works; male-supremacist legislation, reversal of Roe v.
Red Clocks will stay with me for a long time.
I personally loved the biographer's frame story about the Faroese arctic explorer Eivør Mínervudottír and felt that it added an interesting layer of perspective to the novel.
The windows into her life really piqued my interest, and I'm having a hard time finding any information about her, which is ironic (if she was in fact a real historical figure).*Mínervudottír wasn't based on an actual person.
This is a really interesting BookPage interview with Zumas about Red Clocks https://bookpage.com/interviews/22184...
Instead of a BIOLOGIST, let's have your main character be a BIOGRAPHER!") and I really hope having a bunch of unnamed women characters is not going to become a trend in near-future dystopian lit.
Who?" There must be some symbolism here that I'm missing as to why they were referred to by name at some parts but not others, but I can't figure it out.Honestly, the book is more conceptual than story-driven, and I think that focus made me less interested in what was going on.
It's great that we are getting literature in response to the government's attacks on women; hopefully something else will come along with fleshed out characters who I can actually care about.
When I recently heard that Leni Zumas’ new novel “Red Clocks” was partly inspired by Virginia Woolf’s “The Waves” I felt I had to read it.
The plot of Zumas’ novel doesn’t directly relate to Woolf’s writing but it gives several nods to it and pays tribute to her predecessor so part of the great pleasure of reading this book was knowing I was in the company of a fellow Woolf lover.
Of course, their characters are really much more complex than these parts and the story dramatically shows the way women can work together under a political regime that seeks to suppress and control them.Read my full review of Red Clocks by Leni Zumas on LonesomeReader
Incredibly interesting topic. Loved the characters and the writing style (although I see how not everyone would love it).
Most of these books are societies where things suddenly turn on a dime, where the change happens so quickly, and where the real repercussions of that kind of change don't actually seem to penetrate.
They feel like the kind of thing that could happen, that could happen soon, that could happen even with the hurdles it would require.
To me, that makes it much more scary and affecting than a book with a horrific patriarchal system that feels farther away from my own reality.The structure of the novel is basically perfect.
The book stays zoomed in on these women's lives, letting us see how they intertwine and react.
Having passed a Personhood Amendment which recognizes embryos as full citizens, women who seek abortion are convicted of conspiracy to commit murder.
Zumas tries to capture the essence of such an amendment as these 5 try to conceive or to end a pregnancy after our government takes the right to control their own body away from women.
Zumas gives us a bird's eye view of what could easily become our current day policies, if left in the hands of pro-life government officials.
However each of the 4 narrating voices are clear - each is following their own path and trying to navigate a world that has become limiting to women.
DNF @ 28%Wish I could’ve enjoyed this enough to finish it but alas. I was having a hard time following what was going on and didn’t feel emotionally invested in any of the characters. Unfortunately too rambling and experimental for me personally.
