https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/81511.Corydon
The book that shaped my life to the very inch.
When I was reading this marvellous dialogue and thesis in defence of homosexuality, I was completely mesmerised by the clarity of the arguments, the variation of philosophical and scientific opinions, the unprecedented compassion and acknowledgement of the Human Nature.
This very small volume makes you see Homosexuality and Love in general with a more mature, down-to -earth perspective, as a natural selection of the living species on Earth.
What is more, you can fathom and perceive the hypocricy and the inhuman social policy of the Human Society and Civilization, through the ages.
3,5*
A "period piece" from a period that's way-back-when in modernism. The Socratic argument is weak and, I think, unnecessary. Gide takes the wrong approach here--but he was a writer of his time.Of interest are his comments on Proust--his explanation of why Charlus is such a superior creation than Albertine.And amusing that Gide feels offended when accused of not making his homosexuality explicit soon enough. His great works, "The Immoralist" and "The Counterfeiters" puts that accusation immediately to rest.Read "The Immoralist."
Despite his eloquence, I just can't bring myself to read beautiful sentences if they're in defense of pederasty.It's remarkable how beautifully crafted his journal is, even when writing about sex with underage boys. He doesn't even apologize!What a waste. Wonder if I should just toss the rest of his books as well... There's so many other books I could read.
Considerando que este libro fue publicado por primera vez hace casi un siglo, es sorprendente comprobar que la homofobia y la intolerancia no han cambiado prácticamente en nada sus argumentos y razones.
En cuanto a la tolerancia a la homosexualidad, a pesar de notables avances en todo el mundo, es obvio que todavía falta mucho, y el hecho de que los argumentos a favor y en contra sigan siendo prácticamente los mismos que hace un siglo debería llevarnos a reflexionar acerca del motivo de esa "parálisis".
Un libro que se lee fácilmente, rápido y que se disfruta mucho.
Some of the dialogues are more interesting and effective than others (the first is the best, and I can see why his friends encouraged him to stop while he was "ahead"), and the overall piece is certainly outdated; still, and unfortunately, much of the argument made here remains relevant.
This is also an excellent example of the political, social, legal, and philosophical arguments surrounding homosexuality in the early-1900s.
Gide makes a truly troubling slip at the very end of the final dialogue, but perhaps that was unavoidable given the time.
The Socratic dialogues aren't necessarily very sophisticated, but they're not without value.
It doesn't have the same meaning as our word "pedophile", which denotes an attraction to very young children who have not entered puberty.
What he's talking about is a relationship between a man in his twenties or thirties and a boy in his teens.
(They didn't have the word teenager then; the concept had yet to be invented.) This is in France, which until just a few years ago had no such thing as a legal age of consent, and men were free to diddle 12 year girls all day long.
Corydon, in his argument, is simply asking for the same rules to apply to boys.
The issue regarding my reviewing this book is that some sections, as usual with my reading a french text, slip by me.
I am glad that I read this.
I am glad, also, that I read it in French.
Although I have an interest in reading more gay literature, I would likely not have sought out this book as I had never heard of it.
I was given a free French copy at a local book repository.
This book, although he considered it his most important according to what I read, does not have the fame of the counterfeiters.
I did like the counterfeiters a lot.
Lecture plutôt éprouvante (normal, c'est Gide, ça n'allait tout de même pas être agréable) et tout de même très interessante ! Dommage que les termes techniques et les références aux quelques scientifiques ou écrivains soit très précises et spécifiques car elles nécéssitent de nombreux quarts d'heures de recherches complémentaires. Le discours tenu me semble assez cohérent, actuel et raisonné ; je ressors de cette lecture grandi. Je le relierai.
A shockingly relevant piece of work, given its publication nearly a century ago. Gide poses a number of questions our cultural and moral arbiters still refuse to engage with, namely a self-righteous tendency to deem non-normative behaviors as immoral (excusing the tenuous and relativistic existence of norms in the first place).
Más una pieza histórica que una lectura sugerente para hoy, aunque el estilo elegante y persuasivo de Gide siempre es una lección. “El inmoralista” pone en acción las ideas de este diálogo “socrático” sin tanta vuelta poco plausible.
"The important thing is not to know whether I have special interests in defending the cause, but whether it is worth defending."
An interesting defense of being gay from the early 20th century, when you could still be jailed for such a thing.
Corydon, both a title and an allusion to a shepherd who loves a fellow shepherd, is André Gide’s defense of “uranist desires,” or what we call male homosexuality.
Dialogue Two is again between the two friends, but this time focuses on explaining nature, and in particular animals.
Dialogue Three and Four focuses on humans, and in particular the arts, humanities, and customs of humans.
Gide also notes that gay people are everywhere, and that it is desire/love and not sex that makes people gay (“chastity can still exist”).Gide’s Corydon is a fast read, filled with reference to famous people and documents.
I had been curious about reading Corydon for a while, due to its fame.
I had read some of André Gide's books, and liked them, but had never been particularly impressed, except by Les Caves du Vatican, that featured some remarkable characters and daring moral questions for its day.
Corydon is somewhat dated, but it is nevertheless interesting, especially because I think it is the first time in modern literature that someone talked about homosexuality as something natural, not as a vice or as a peculiar proclivity.
For that alone, it deserves great praise, not to speak of the courage it took for someone to publish it in the early 20th century.

The first dialogue was interesting because the arguments were so like modern arguments about homosexuality.
The second dialogue, consisting mostly of descriptions of animal mating habits, I found rather unfortunate and far too long.
The third and fourth I felt included some of that depressing brand of gay male misogyny, which again one sometimes hears today.
This was a formative text for early 20th century discussions of homosexuality, but it definitely doesn't last because Gide doesn't really transcend his own time.
Gide also doesn't do much for me in general, which is why having to read so much of him for my thesis is a drag.
First and foremost I admired Gide’s frankness: To write this exquisite dialogue pro homosexuality; The way he uses arguments from the fields of biology, philosophy, history in order to point out the liquidity of the sexual instinct and the force of social imperative that leads to the delusion of its certainty.
Unsure how to rate this; in terms of literary intrigue, there isn't much-- but then again, that's not what the book was designed for. What I find fascinating is that this piece, written ca. 100 years ago, could probably still be brought into the contemporary debate on gender preferences.
Comprado em Paris, há uns anos atrás, tal como 'Giovanni's Room', na língua original (francês!). Comecei e pousei. O meu francês não está lá muito bem, neste momento, e não sei se melhorará com o tempo, mesmo depois de 8 anos de (algum) estudo...
Poderia passar sem misoginia e antissemitismo. "A sinfonia pastoral" continua sendo uma introdução melhor.
