https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/226448.Return_to_Peyton_Place
Plutôt un 3,5. J'étais ravie de retrouver Peyton Place et ses habitants mais il m'a manqué le plaisir de la découverte et j'ai eu l'impression que certaines histoires étaient un peu bâclées.
Život u gradiću kojeg će autorica u romanu opisati kao 'zgodan, miran i daleko od svakog meteža' je zasigurno sve samo ne to.
''(David Noyes)''Suviše se toga događa i kada se što dogodi ljudi uvijek kažu ''ovo neću nikada zaboraviti, a zatim se slika s vremenom zamagli, pa se napokon ničeg više dobro ne sjećaju.''''Svatko od nas ima svoje razloge za svoje osjećaje, ali su osjećaji ti i mi se ne možemo izbaviti od njih.'' (Brad Holmes)''Muškarac je star tek kad istoši svu zalihu svoje ljubavi.''''Kad se ljudi u nekom gradiću raspale, oni mogu prilično zagorčati život svakome tko ih je razbjesnio.''''Ali mi ne biramo objekte svoje ljubavi, ljubav bira nas.
While I do love this old classic, Connie Mackenzie's new husbands name in Peyton Place was Tomas Makris and in Return to Peyton Place his name is Michael Rossi....this was confusing until I did a little research about the reason for this...apparently the character of Tomas Makris, bore the name and description of a resident and co-worker of Metalious's school teacher husband...he sued for libel and won an out-of-court settlement for $60,000...Tom Makris was renamed Michael Rossi....
Helpful hint: If you're running a decrepit used bookstore in an out-of-the-way strip mall in Palm Springs, you should be grateful anyone's coming in at all, not making fun of their taste and then looking up the value of the book online to be sure you don't accidentally sell someone a collectible for $1.50.
Yes, we do get a few subplots, but they feel a little bit tacked on, like the publisher sent it back to Metalious with notes saying "More shocking!" "More salacious!" etc.
Mostly, this is interesting though as Metalious' sort of note back to her publisher, and to her readers, and to the media, and to the American public at large.
Just read an article about Grace Metalious and she wrote this book solely because she needed the money.
But as she was drinking a fifth of liquor a day, the first manuscript was so unintelligible a ghostwriter had to be hired to clean it up.
Some of the story is autobiographical, how a small town reacts to the author of a salacious book about a small town (her teacher husband really did lose his job the way her step-father in the book does) and how she dealt with the Hollywood adaptation.
But it does all feel sort of unnecessary, and the side plot of an attempted murder and the (very predictable) fate of Alison's lover are just plain silly.
E' probabile che l'autrice stesse cercando di dire la sua con questo libro: a quanto pare lo scrisse solo perché la 20th Century Fox, che aveve già girato il film basato sul primo libro, decise di farne un seguito.
Grace Metalious non era d'accordo ma lo studio decise comunque di proseguire e a lei non restò che l'opzione di raccontare la sua versione.
Ho anche trovato un'altra versione: ovvero che l'autrice accettò di scrivere questo seguito solo perché era senza soldi a causa del suo alcolismo e della sua vita sfrenata, e che consegnò un manoscritto di 96 pagine che venne rimpolpato da un ghost writer.robertabookshelf.blogspot.it/2013/11/...
Thought I'd keep going and see what happened next. :-) Picked this up when I renewed my Chicago Public Library card. Appropriate since it was in celebration of my Return to Chicago. Not as great as the original, and I know it was written to be made into the film, but fun to see where Grace took the characters and all that. Good fun.
The place, the characters are the same (except for Tom who is became Mike Rossi, which is a very greek name if you wanna know) but the intentions of the book are completely different.
For me, at least.It's the story of Allison, not of the city...but maybe I was expecting too much because I've just finished to read the first one and I've deeply loved it.As I said it's not a bad book, it's enjoyable and funny and gossipfull (t's not even a word I think), but I prefer to consider Return to Peyton Place a completely differnt story, not the sequel of the first one.
My advice don't read the foreword it is full of spoilers, I only read half before moving on to the novel.
The first novel had us meeting the town characters and uncovering their secrets and weaknesses whereas this one has less of the town members and is totally focused on Allison as the main character who sells her book and discovers what publishing really is like.
To me this seemed like Grace Metalious' chance to speak about her disappointment of the TV series and films based on her books.
I did enjoy this book but it wasn't as good as the first in my opinion.
I am glad that this one is over because holy crap, I don't think my poor bones can handle any more drama. This one read a little more like an auto-biography of the author, but I didn't mind. I was happy to see my characters again, and more than a little troubled at some of the freak men they apparently had walking around in 1950's New Hampshire.
More secret shenanigans in the town but this time with the authoress being targeted for telling the world about them. Good, juicy goings-on partially tempered by a "been there, done that" sense. Made into a movie which eliminated one of the key plot points (attempted murder that backfires.)
Definitely not as good as the first novel. It felt at some points as if the author was writing the book because she had to, not so much to tell the further stories of characters in the first novel. Grace Metalious certainly did not have much love for Hollywood, as expressed through Allison, although she tried to understand the industry. I'll read her other works, though.
More of the same.....wrapped up the unanswered questions from the first book. Why did Constance's husband have a name change?
Not nearly as good as the first book but still a good read.
Yes, I know the first book blew the lid off small New England town life when it was published, much in the way the town gets turned upside down in THE HELP (another non-favorite of mine), but I can't help thinking Metalious kept a paper bag full of Horrible Things People Do or Have Done to Them beside her typewriter, and she would just reach in when inspiration was required.
RETURN has the added detraction of having character Alison become, like Metalious herself, a successful bestselling author whose book causes a stir and gets made into a movie.
Double bleh.On the plus side, Metalious is lovely with the setting and seasons of her sorta-fictional town, and I enjoyed those bits.
I had actually seen the film sequel--which is awful--before I read this book and somehow this played in both stories' favor.
Once you know that Metalious never meant to write a sequel and only did so because the film studio owned the name "Peyton Place" and was doing another film with or without her.This book is her response.
I did like the Serena story if it wasn't as balanced out as it could have been.
And the Ted Carter storyline was more than just a little bit justified.But what makes me enjoy this book is Metalious' writing style.
I read this shortly after it first came out in the early 1960's.
We follow Allison to New York and her adventures in publishing a best seller, a plot obviously based on her own experiences with "Peyton Place," called "Samuel's Castle" in this book.
I was a fan of the original "Peyton Place," which I thought was much better written than its critics would have it.
For those who don't know, Grace Metalious died an alcoholic and never wrote another successful book.
"Return to Peyton Place" was a pretty good effort, though, whoever actually wrote it.
no where near as ridiculous or as hilarious as the first one.edit: Well, there's some ridiculousness, and certain elements are very autobiographical (the publishing of a novel on a scandalous small town, and the reaction to the author by the decent folks.
Allison is practically Grace Metalious in this novel, only younger and sleeps around a bit more), but Peyton Place was a much more enjoyable novel to read, especially if you treat it as a black comedy.
It's well written, and it did entertain in certain parts , but it was a bit of a letdown.
That’s the prize I’ve won from life.Matt was haunted by nothing but loneliness, and he had decided he was too old to take the cure.[T]oo much sex wasn’t good for a man who had to keep his mind on his books.“David, for Heaven’s sake, can’t we leave things the way they are?
Can’t we be friends without this everlasting talk of turning it into something else?”“I told you before, Allison.
I want you, and I want you any way I can get you.
I want to live with you if I can, but if I can’t, I want you anyway.”“Oh David,” she sighed.
If--like me--you wanted to know what happened to the women of Peyton Place after that novel's end, you'll greatly enjoy the sequel.
Constance and Mike (a name change from the first book's "Tom") have settled into a lusty domesticity.
However, Allison's newly published novel about the town she grew up in becomes a bombshell that leaves nobody in Peyton Place untouched.
And another woman comes back to town with a few scores to settle.This is a quick read, and perhaps not quite the force of nature that the first book was, but still a very good time.
It was another good story, and it definitely needs to be read (if one reads Peyton Place) to get the full story.I wish Grace Metalious had written more stories about the families of Peyton Place before her death.
WOW - I just started this and I can't believe how quickly I forgot the plot and characters from Peyton Place! I had to go look at some reviews before I could remember what was what and who is who. Hopefully it will all come back to me before I get too much further! Ok - unless I forgot, this one was a little more risque than the original. Per the intro, Allison's story is a reflection of the author's climb to fame. I enjoyed it.
Snap heel goed dat dit boek (en het eerste deel hiervan) destijds in de jaren '50 heel wat stof op deed waaien. Grappig dat de in de jaren '60 zo keurige tv-serie (de allereerste soap waar mijn moeder en oma zo van genoten) op een boek is gebaseerd dat tegen zoveel heilige huisjes trapte. Anno nu is het uiteraard niet echt schokkend meer, zeker niet in de erotische passsages waar kwistig met het woord "lieveling" wordt gestrooid.
Did not expect this to be as good as the original and it wasn't. Seems like Metalious struggled at times to write it but that's ok. Book starts out in Peyton Place so seems familiar but then gets thin, especially when Allison strikes out on her own to Hollywood. Not to be petty, but some of the love scene dialogues are really bad. The ending in Peyton Place has some surprises that bring everything to a page-turning but not altogether satisfying end.
Return to Peyton Place was a fast and easy book to read. While some of the plot seems forced, it was still entertaining. I think that readers can tell that this isn't one of those stories that are born in the writer and are just waiting to come out, but more so the writer making an effort to put together a decent story. I had fun reading it anyway though, even though it doesn't quite hold up to its predecessor.
Not quite as good as Peyton Place, this follow-up novel covers the adult lives of the children in the original novel and the consequences of having all those secrets out in the open. An interesting look at how our decisions and actions impact the lives of others, how we all need forgiveness, and how the place where we grow up stays with us throughout our lives.
Allison says at one point that she's glad she lives in the advanced 50s and not in the 30s like her mother, where one couldn't take a lover without guilt. It's so easy to forget that the early 50s were dissimilar to the late 50s that we generally think of. And Metalious never ceases to fascinate me.
I enjoyed Peyton Place better. I'm glad I read the forward for this one because it helped me to understand Grace Metalious' motivation for writing the sequel and how she didn't have control over it like she would have liked. It was pretty clear that this was a book written for the sake of making money, which I know she resisted heartily.
Short StoryThe introduction at the beginning is almost as long as the story. The tale itself is quick, and it's not necessary to have read Peyton Place to enjoy it. Characters are basically the same, but not as well developed as those in its predecessor.
Not nearly as good as the original, but read them back-to-back, so it was kind of one long story, I wanted more, and enjoyed staying in Peyton Place longer, but the second half strayed a bit and didn't really wrap up like I'd hoped for all the characters.
