https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76248.Sherlock_Holmes_of_Baker_Street
For a biography of a fictional person it really wasn't very interesting. The narritave is largely just paraphrasing of Doyle's adventures with a lot of speculation thrown in. If you do decide to read this do try to find a copy of "Profile By Gaslight: an irregular reader about the private life of Sherlock Holmes" Edited by: Edgar W. Smith Published by: Simon & Schuster NY 1944. "Profile By Gaslight" is referenced a lot in Baring-Gould's foot notes and is on it's own a much more interesting read.
(Given somewhat short shrift is oldest Holmes brother Sherrinford, a country squire.) Baring-Gould's work clearly laid the groundwork for so many of the "fictional biographies" that came later, including Baring-Gould's own Nero Wolfe of West Thirty-Fourth Street (which I intend to read in the next few days) but perhaps most notably the great Philip Jose Farmer's Tarzan Alive!
Baring-Gould does an excellent job of untangling Watson's obfuscations, reading between the lines, and catching odd clues left by the Detective's biographer.Unfortunately, the conclusion left something to be desired.
One would think that so respected a Holmesian scholar would have noted that, to date, The Times has yet to publish an obituary for Sherlock Holmes.
I credit The Times' editorial staff with both the resources and the integrity to ensure such publication in the event of the Detective's death; since no such notice has been yet been posted, it seems unlikely that Mr. Holmes has yet shuffled off this mortal coil.
Late last night, I finished this singular title from Holmesian studies: Sherlock Holmes of Baker Street by the late W.S. Baring-Gould, a Holmesian scholar of note.
It’s a complete biography of Holmes, using the canon (extensively) and weaving in interstitial details from the fertile minds of Baring-Gould and other writers.It’s actually kind of a disturbing read, since it does portray the death of the World’s Greatest Consulting Detective (1957), even going so far as having his last words be “Irene.
This is a pastiche biography of Sherlock Holmes which maps out a chronology of all of his adventures and includes Baring-Gould's headcanons about Holmes.
I mostly read this for research purposes.
Since this book was so influential among Sherlockians, I figured it was required reading.
Props to this guy for doing the hard work of putting together a timeline, but the reading was a bit of a slog at times, since it was more or less a summary of the canon.
Baring-Gould's headcanons also wildly diverge from my own.
If you're a fan of the worlds first consulting detective then you might want to read this wonderful book, Sherlock Holmes of Baker Street by William S.
Baring-Gould.
The book was published in 1962 so it may be hard to find but it is the most definitive of the Holmes books.
Baring-Gould spent 20 years researching all the aspects of the Conan-Doyle stories to either prove or disprove many of the aspects of the Holmes stories that have been adopted by other authors.
Its a fascinating look into a character that, by the end of the book, you'll swear really lived.
I've been reading the entire Holmes collection chronologically by publication date; Baring-Gould has written this biography using the chronology of the cases themselves. This makes me want to start over -- but I won't since B-G has provided sufficient detail to remind me of the tale he briefly, and without spoilers, describes. He also reveals some hitherto unknown facets of Holmes' life after Reichenbach and before the adventure of the empty house. (Rex Stout would neither confirm nor deny...)
How can a story that's basically a clever compilation of "facts" from many other stories be so fascinating? My favorite part was reading the info on Holmes' dad that was actually lifted directly from The Lost World's description of Professor Challenger. Uh-huh, origin of Holmes' neuroticism, check. Can I add to this review hearts and flutters and stars for the "biographer"? *~*~<3~*~* Mr. Baring-Gould *~*~<3~*~*
A ‘biography’ of a fictional character has a certain meta feel to it, and this measures up, with footnotes and references to other fictional characters and novels, and a deep comprehension of the writings of Dr. Watson. To any fan of Sherlock Holmes this book will be both indispensable and delightful. Oh, and Baring-Gould even solves the mystery of Jack the Ripper.
(ironie)Anybref, vu le prix de l'ouvrage qui est rare, vu que l'on est face à une fausse biographie, vu que le néophyte ne saura pas trier le bon grain de l'ivraie, et vu qu'on remplit des pages et des pages avec des véritables extraits canoniques, je n'ai qu'un mot à vous dire…PASSEZ VOTRE CHEMIN !!!Sauf si, comme moi, vous être collectionneuse dans l'âme et à l'affut du moindre ouvrage consacré à votre détective préféré ou si, comme moi aussi, vous voulez juste informer les pauvres lecteurs/lectrices innocents qui seraient prêt à tomber dans les filets racoleurs de cet ouvrage.
About two thirds of the text is simply lifted from the original stories, including whole reams of speech - not in any inventive way, but simply cut-up and/or paraphrased.
What's left after that are chunks of pure speculation and invention dressed-up as real fact, with very little evidence put forward to back-up the author's claims.
He even feels the need to invent stories and dialogue, splicing them into the original texts without once stating that they are his own creations.
And nowhere is it said explicitly that Holmes is purely fictional: the whole book is written straight, with no tinge of humour, with no knowing wink.
All the respect for the hardcore Sherlock Holmes fans that love this book. But I personally don't understand its existence. I couldn't get through it. And I tried. Multiple times.
Para além de elevar a arte de detective particular a patamares nunca alcançados, Doyle conseguiu criar uma vedeta internacional e o mais curioso é que essa personagem nunca existiu.Mesmo mais de 100 anos depois do fim das suas aventuras, é impossível não nos deixarmos entusiasmar e impressionar pelos casos criados e pelo carisma da personagem, facto que quanto a mim, é um dos principais razões do sucesso.No entanto o fascínio de milhões de leitores fez com que a obra de Conan Doyle começasse a ser analisada ao pormenor.
Once you read all of the novels and short stories about Sherlock Holmes written by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, you want more.
Yes, it's influential and was the first to try and write a straight "biography" of Sherlock Holmes (Playing the Game by pretending that he actually lived all the way) but half of this book is direct quotes from the Sir Arthur Conan Doyle stories.
Usually when there is an un-Canonical "fact" added to the Holmes legend, it's based on something in the Conan Doyle stories.
This is the second attempt at a Sherlock Holmes biography that I've read, and I ended up being slightly bored by both of them.
I guess the problem is that at some point both authors can't do much else than retell the canon stories.
Baring-Gould did this to the point where he paraphrased or just quoted looooong passages from the canon, which was not necessary and didn't even fit with the style of the rest of the book.
Why would you have extensive dialogue in a (fictional) biography?
I loved the description of Holmes's family and his early life, as well as the account of the Ripper killings.
A demora deste livro em nada se deve à história, mas sim à falta de tempo.
Mas o certo é que nos tempos que tinhas disponível para avançar na leitura, não deixei pousar o livro e ler, ler o máximo que conseguir.
Nunca tinha ouvido falar deste livro, mas ainda bem que me veio parar às mãos!
Muito descobri sobre essa personagem mítica, Sr. Sherlock Holmes, que sempre me fascinou.
Mas não só sobre ele, também sobre o sei companheiro, Dr. Watson.
Um livro que recomendo para quem queira saber mais sobre Sherlock Holmes.
Fun, But Oh So SeriousI loved "Sherlock Holmes Of Baker Street" tremendously.
I know my statements are probably offensive to the "died in the wool" Sherlockian!
But to the I think, majority of Sherlock Holmes fans, who enjoy without obsession, this is masterpiece to be enjoyed, both for a better understanding and appreciation of the Sherlock Holmes stories, and for the creativity of such a writing.
I know that those "died in the wool" fans will dismiss this review as they dismissed Rex Stout's insightful and playful speech "Watson Was a Woman." I think those folks should stop and count the commas.
I'd been looking forward to reading this for months. Not as much as I'd been looking forward to Game of Shadows, but then Robert Downey Jr's very liberal interpretation of Holmes is the sexiest thing I've ever seen in a film, and this is just a geeky old book about Conan Doyle's original character.Three interesting speculative chapters about Sherlock's pre-detecting life make a decent opener, but later only the obligatory Jack The Ripper digression interleaves a sheaf of unoriginal case synopses, which feature multi-paragraph quotations from the Holmes stories. This is a revision aid, not high-class fanfic.
At first I couldn't believe I hadn't read this sooner.
But now I'm glad I waited a couple of years after I finished the canon.
This amazing fictional biography in part acts as a sort of canon refresher.
It's really fun to read about many of the cases from a biographical perspective.
I love how Baring-Gould filled in ACD's gaping plot holes and makes sense of the radical inconsistencies Sherlockians are always discussing.
Of COURSE Watson had three wives!
Everything makes sense now.
Oh, THAT's what happened with Irene Adler!
And Sherlock and Mycroft MUST have another brother, why didn't I think of that?
Loved it.
This is a biography of Sherlock Holmes, written as if he'd been a real person. In the first several chapters, the author creates a backstory for him that has been riffed off of in fanon ever since. The events of the adventures that Watson chronicled in the Canon are rearranged chronologically to create an interesting and coherent narrative that helps make sense out of Conan Doyle's cavalier approach to continuity. I really enjoyed this, and as soon as I finished this library book, I ordered a copy online. Worth having for a Sherlock fan.
Completely bonkers and therefore entirely loveable. A work of Serious Biography about Actual Real Person, Sherlock Holmes of Baker Street. Did you know that Sherlock Holmes was prrooobbbabbly hunting the yeti during his three year "Great Hiatus"? Or that Professor Moriarty may well be dozens of other famous fictional characters, including Fu Manchu and Captain Nemo? Well now you do. Thanks, William S. Baring-Gould! (Basically, Sherlockian scholarship is BANANAS.)
A thoroughly enjoyable "biography" of a fictional character. Baring-Gould would have a better book had he resisted the temptations to supply so many plot synopsis from Conan Doyle stories as if they are the events of Holmes's life. The ending is every bit as silly as it tries to be moving, but overall this is a very readable and fun book of the "Holmes was real" variety. This conceit is silly to its core, but many like it.
un libro cariñosísimo, en parte estudio del canon holmesiano, en parte novela, en parte fanfic. la habilidad de baring-gould --y su tremendo conocimiento de las aventuras de holmes-- le permite emparejar y ordenar el canon y, al mismo tiempo, llenar sus huecos con un montón de historias --¡holmes buscando al yeti! ¡holmes peleando con un pterodáctilo!-- que, en este conjunto, no pueden sino parecer la consecuencia natural del desarrollo del personaje. una auténtica maravilla.
I read this book as a teen (lent by my brother) and loved it. I recently got my hands on acopy and have re-read it. This very first attempt of a biography of the Great detective is still delightful, and my better knowledge as an adult of the characters and historical facts mentioned has but added to the delight. A piece of joy.
The most prominent of the now several fictional Holmesian biographies, Baring-Gould delves into the canon established by Conan Doyle with aplomb, creating links with other fictional detectives and other figures and suggesting a background for the gentleman detective. A must-read for any fan of Holmes, in any iteration.
now i am hooked. This was such a great, easy and creative book. i was hooked after the first page. The characters were easy to fall in love with and follow, along with the story. the author made the mental visions so easy and vivid of the surroundings and the characters actions felt so real.i would highly recommend this author and this book.
Not a mystery or a pastiche per se but a biography of Sherlock Holmes. Very good. Includes Holmes involvement in the Jack The Ripper case (and the identity of the murderer-you'll never guess who!), as well as the time and manner of Holmes' death.
This was the first Writing about the Writings that I had ever seen, found on a remainder table way way back when I was in college. It will always have a place in my heart, although I think some of his deductions and conclusions are wrong. Do Sherlockians ever agree on some of these things?
I adored this! It's like the unauthorised biography of Sherlock Holmes, and piece of convincing semi-fiction that seems to have influenced a lot of modern Sherlockian writers.
A really good, documented and complete fictional biography of the great Sherlock Holmes!
