https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15839976-red-rising
Actual rating: 2.5  “Darrow. Come here. Come.” He grabs my shoulder and pulls me in. “Others may have failed. But you’ll be different, Darrow. I feel it in my bones.”  I'm sorry, was I supposed to feel something?I suppose boredom is a feeling. Not a single tear was shed. Not for a single instance was a single emotion heightened. It was by no means a bad book, but the message got lost in the telling, and there is just. So. Much. Telling. The writing is fantastic, but the plot just didn't work for
It read like a rousing Communist propaganda, the sort that would get a crowd of common men fired up, ready to launch an uprising to bring down the almighty ruling class that has long oppressed them.Wait, this book is trying to make a political message?
No. It is a story about how Darrow is better than everyone else at everything because he is The One. His life is saved by the act of God, or shall I say, the act of deus ex fucking machina every single fucking time.It wants to be the story of a common laborer, a sheep, one who is content with his hard-working life, who is proud of the products of his toil because it supposedly means something.
I BLOODYDAMN LOVED IT*You think you’ve read a dystopian book?
Nope, those were one dimensional villains that will look cartoony compared the assholes in this book.You think you’ve seen hurt and suffering and despair and heartache?
Don’t get me wrong, I loved The Hunger Games and there are a few parallels between that series and this book.
Because the book blurb mentions this, I don’t feel like I’m spoiling anything by saying that when she dies, a little piece of you may die too, drained away with the tears that will spill from your eyes.
(Minor spoilers follow) Red Rising introduces us to Darrow, a sixteen-year-old miner who toils deep in the mines of Mars a few hundred years in the future.
In Darrow's world, humanity has spread across the solar system, and has been organized into a strict caste system of colors, with Gold at the top and Red at the bottom.
Darrow's job is to rise as high as he can within the Gold ranks so he can assist the Sons of Ares in their eventual revolution.
The book is satisfying in itself, but it leaves a lot of tantalizing questions for the second volume, which I have already started reading.
I picked up Red Rising because a *lot* of the people at Worldbuilders were goofy over the books, and, by extension, the author Pierce Brown.Earlier this year, when I went to a convention where he was going to be in attendance, the Worldbuilders team told me that if I didn't capture Pierce like a Pokemon and bring him back to the office with me, I shouldn't bother coming home at all....I got to hang out with Pierce there, and he was irritatingly polite, witty, and charming.
“I am the Reaper and death is my shadow.”  2 1/2 stars. Red Rising isn't really a bad book - 2.5 stars still means halfway between "it was ok" and "I liked it", after all. And many other reviews will tell you how amazing most people found it, but I struggled to locate the magic that so many other people seem to have found within its pages. Red Rising is considered and marketed as dystopian/sci-fi, which technically it is, but it reads with a dense wordiness that is reminiscent of high fantasy n
Red Rising isn't really a bad book - 2.5 stars still means halfway between "it was ok" and "I liked it", after all.
but I am surprised to see quite so many five star reviews.One final thing I want to say is about the language.
You know in kids' films when it gets to the climax and it looks like the bad guys are going to win?
Then the hero makes a big emotional, dramatic speech about why they're going to beat the bad guys with epic music playing in the background?
This whole book felt a bit like one of those speeches.
BIGGGGGG DNFHoly effing hell, people.Or should.
Effing.
My local library must have accidentally supplied me with the staccato-speak, melodramatic version of this thing instead of the real one......although I had a sneaking suspicion this book and I were not meant to be when I cracked this bad boy open and saw these two nuggets of brilliance in the dedication/acknowledgement sections:"To Father, who taught me to walk."...or trying to be "ironic."Followed by this little ditty:"And to the reader, thank you.
You're going to bloodydamn love these books."Well...actually...Because I most definitely did not.
This was a little bit difficult for me to get into--lots of world building and unique vocab--but once I settled into the story, I started to really enjoy it!
I definitely get the comparison to The Hunger Games, and thought it also felt similar to Divergent and even The Son of Neptune at times, but it's still very different and original.
I didn't really connect emotionally to the main character, but I did still like watching his journey.
A strong start to this trilogy.
Will definitely be continuing with Golden Son ASAP!Check out my booktalk for more of my thoughts - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NxwS2...
The narrator nails it and there is a song in the book and a woman sings it at the end and I got freaking chills people.
Darrow is turned from a Red into a Gold.
Darrow is knows as the Reaper....This is a freaking awesome book and I will read it many times.
I thought it was going to be a cool underground Mars weird thing.
There are all kinds of colors on in this world and I'm not going into all of them because they have a lot but the ones that are jerks are the Golds.
You're caught up in the NOW, survival depends on the present, and little thought is given to the past or the future.And you're experiencing this so vividly b/c Darrow is too.RED RISING is about a world run by a caste system.
But the eugenics are not limited to the color of an individual’s iris, oh no, they have Obsidian elite soldiers that are twice the size of normal men, Violet artists with twelve fingers on each hand to better art with, and Pinks whose only job is to provide pleasure *waggles eyebrows* for the high-color castes (mostly Golds and Silvers).
*snorts*It should be noted that there are worse things than death.Enter Darrow, a Red from the lowest-level caste.
I think that speaks for itself, but let's elaborate further just for the sake of my sanity shall we??I want to first of all point out what really gripped me in this book, because even though I liked it very much, I was 30% confusion, 20% outrage, 50% admiration.
The gripping part to me was not the romance( which was pretty good, oh and that shocking last minute turn), or the action, or even the admirable albeit familiar setting, it was simply the touch of reality in Darrow's character.
4.5/5 Stars Buddy reading this with my favorites:Sweet Mary, Sister Sarah, Tweebie, Jennymort, Innocent MayLet’s get the two most asked questions about this book out of the way first.1. Is this book geared towards YA audience?No, it’s not. The only thing that fits the YA genre on this book is that Darrow’s (The MC) age starts at 16 years old in the beginning, that’s it. Everything else from the writing, plot, world building is definitely in adult territory.2. Is this book really similar to The H
Conflicted with his main mission and love towards his new friends, I really can’t wait to see how his character will develop further and see the progress of his relationships with the other fantastic side characters, Eo, Mustang, Cassius, onDancer, Mickey, Roque, Pax and especially my favorite (and probably everyone) Sevro.None of the things I mentioned above will make the book worked for me without Pierce Brown’s writing style.
Words like hatred, vengeance, justice, rage are often used that it really reminds me of a video game series I really loved following Kratos in his tale of revenge called God of War.The only minor problems I have with this book are in its World-building aspect.
Julian’s death, Titus’ resistance, Cassius' betrayal, Pax’s unconditional loyalty that cost him his life… They were all pieces of a puzzle that formed him into something new and if I’m entirely honest I don’t even want to know how much he’s going to suffer in the next book.
After he put a sword in my belly, I pity him.Roque:”And violent hearts set harshest flame,” Roque murmurs from his knee.I liked that boy right from the beginning and I think he was the perfect counterweight to Darrow and Cassius.
I don’t even want to know what he’s going to do in the next book and I’m afraid I might get nightmares if I think about it all too much!
Red Rising reads like a 12 year old boy’s fever script for an action movie.
Both have a society split up into different fractions, depending on what they provide the world.
Okay, the “Red Queen is a ripoff of Red Rising!!!” comments are 
. Yes, there is a color-coded society in both.
However, Red Queen has 2 colors: Red and Silver.
Red Rising has a rainbow of colors to choose from, but here’s the most important distinction: THERE ARE NO POWERS IN RED RISING.
Why does the Red Queen/Red Rising similarity bother me so much?
2nd read:I'm a dumbass. I fully admit to being a dumbass. I don't know what the hell I was doing the first time I read this book..because I gave it 3.5 stars. After reading so many shitty books this year I know now what a great book this really is.This time it gets it's full five stars. Five frigging, huge, screaming stars. Stars for SeVRo, Pax, Mustang and the rest of these characters. 1st read: When I was a dumbass.Unpopular opinion time. I'm sorry fangirls. I just didn't love this book. I did
2nd read:I'm a dumbass.
I fully admit to being a dumbass.
I don't know what the hell I was doing the first time I read this book..because I gave it 3.5 stars.
After reading so many shitty books this year I know now what a great book this really is.This time it gets it's full five stars.
Five frigging, huge, screaming stars.
Stars for SeVRo, Pax, Mustang and the rest of these characters.
1st read: When I was a dumbass.Unpopular opinion time.
I'm sorry fangirls.
I just didn't love this book.
Then there were times when my eyes just glazed over.
From the bones of his body to the colour of his eyes, from the place he lives to the way he talks.
I watched Red Rising go from underrated to hyped and now that the final installment of the series was released, I had to give it a try as well.I first started the book and put it down again after around 50 pages.
I had a hard time imagining the fictional world and the time it took to read those few pages discouraged me.A few weeks later I had more spare time and decided to give it another try.
❝I will rise. I will attend the Academy. I will learn to lead fleets. I will win. I will sharpen myself into a sword. I will give my soul. I will dive to hell in hopes of one day rising to freedom. I will sacrifice.❞  HOLY CRAP. What a ride. I don't even know where to begin! I knew there had to be a reason why everyone was talking about this series but WOW. Red Rising was really something else. I expected a typical YA "chosen one" type of fantasy novel but this book was so much more complex th
I was a bit wary about him in the beginning but the more the story progressed, the more I grew attached to his character.
I can't wait to see their development as the series progresses.The only real complaint I had with Red Rising was the world building, and a bit of the pacing as well.
I can't wait to get through the rest of the series and binge read the next two books.
And his wife...oh dear, I went re-reading the parts she were in since she’s the kind of character that brigs a wonderful atmosphere inside a story.Again, before the ‘battle’ began, a developed world-building was presented, one that I only wanted to know more of.
He became...a God. He wasn’t like that at all before and I liked the fact that, for once, a male main character isn’t perfect or hasn’t the strength to ‘save the world.’ Of course, character development is not a bad thing but has to be moderated.
The writing.Things didn't start well between Red Rising and me since I tend to have a hard time with first person/present tense narratives.
It's exhausting to read and makes me feel like I'm choking.Brown tries too hard.
Not only is his writing not poetic, it is completely flat and unemotional.The way Brown force feeds the reader with Greek and Latin names in the first part of the book?
To make things worse, part of the plot resolution made me feel like Brown was out of ideas and chose the easy way out.
That's about it.The problem with Red Rising is that Brown tries too hard to write an epic story.
This book you guys.
(view spoiler)[When you don’t want your wife to die: Avoid pulling her feet down when her neck is attached to a rope.
When you don’t want to be discovered as a Red: Avoid yelling BLOODYDAMN when you’re stabbing someone in the eyeball.
When you don’t want someone to escape: Avoid saying you’ll set them free if they cut their own hand.
I'm sure you can do it, Darrow.
My favorite character in this book was definitely Pax and we all know what that means.(view spoiler)[ Of course he HAD to die.
(hide spoiler)]If you're considering reading this book.
Darn this book is GOOD! Pierce Brown is a freaking mastermind. Red Rising is a blend of science-fiction and dystopia with reference to History's greatest conquerors and Greek mythology, and the result is savage.   “I would have lived in peace. But my enemies brought me war.”  Darrow is a Red, working in the mines below the surface of Mars in order to make Mars inhabitable and secure the future of mankind. Reds are mostly slaves, but he has accepted his fate, thinking he's making sacrifices for t
Darrow is determined to excel, to rise as a Gold only to bring them down as a Red. For his people.
The first thing you need to know about Red Rising is that it is ranked among YA books due to the age of the main characters, but it's not a typical YA book.
The second thing you need to know about Red Rising is that the blurbs compare it to the Hunger Games, which, to be candid, is a poor comparison.
One of the most exciting books I've read in awhile! So glad I finished it now I can talk to Pierce about his book! Book talk coming soon on my channel!
Well. That was a hell of a ride! Fantastic. Action-packed. Love to love, and sometimes hate, all of the characters we meet. I need MORE!I can't believe it has taken me SO long to get to this series, but I'm so glad I finally have.
I was not impressed.Ah, but I was so veryvery wrong.After that initial chapter introducing you to Darrow and his life, this book starts to get really interesting...really fast.
To help realize her dream, he eventually agrees to join the Red's rebellion.
The End.I wanted to see some sort of spark of life in her, but it seemed (to me) like she was just a depressed puddle of skin, who would occasionally snap out of it and do something extraordinary.Darrow, on the other hand, grew and changed throughout the entire book.
He started out as a Katniss-like character, but ended up a different person entirely.
Sale Alert 18Dec17: I really enjoyed this entire series and today the first book in it is on sale for $1.99 HereI might have liked this even more the second time through. Fantastic.  Dystopian novels seem to be a dime a dozen lately, some good, some horrible, so it is great to see a book set itself apart and really capture my imagination. Red Rising is a combination of The Hunger Games and Lord of the Flies if you turned the volume up to 11. I am the spark that will set the worlds afire. I am th
When Darrow finds out his entire life has been a lie, that mars is already terraformed and has been for generations he is recruited to rebel against the system by transforming from a lowly Red into a Gold, the rulers of the worlds who believe themselves to be Gods among men.
Now he must infiltrate their system and become the best Gold possible so that in the future he can destroy them from the inside.Red Rising is dark and intense, full of intrigues and betrayals.
I can’t wait to see how Brown follows Red Rising up.
Told in first-person present, the story was largely composed of short, straightforward sentences.
But the choppy sentences just made me feel so disconnected from the story.
It made the story feel boring, even when exciting stuff was happening.
He was straight-up Mary-Sue:-	Told to stop drilling as it’s dangerous.
Can we please stop with these disposable female characters who exist only to motivate some bland hero into action?
In Conclusion I can see how others would enjoy this, as it combines elements from fantasy, dystopia and sci-fic to create a dark, fast-paced story—but the characters, sentence structure and plot just didn’t work for me.
THIS WAS SUPPOSED TO BE AS GOOD AS THE AUTHORS FACE.I am so disappointed and was not expecting to be DYING OF BOREDOM.○●○●○●○●○●○●○●○●○●○●○●○●○●○●○●○●○●○●○●○●○●○●○●○●○●○●○●○●○●○●○●○●○●Here is my rant:I really enjoyed the beginning of this book, but when it hit around the 80 page mark, I started to lose interest and get bored.
I wanted so badly to love this, but what I got was an extremely angry dude filled with hate pretending to be someone else and just trying to live like them and NOT DO ANYTHING.
Like, all I read about was Darrow becoming a Gold, living their life, doing what they do, and not actually trying to do something about helping the Red's.
➽ Part II: Darrow wakes up and meets with the Sons of Ares, and starts his transformation to enhance his body, so he can pass as a Gold and infiltrate their ranks by performing well enough at their military school, the Institute.
I feel like the book community really paints this as a YA SFF coming of age story, which I guess it is, but it is so much darker than I ever imaged.
I also hated how this story used rape to make Darrow look like a savior constantly.
READ #2 = Dec 2017In honour of Iron Gold coming in like...a month (!!) I decided I absolutely needed to reread this.
Do you know how HARD it is to write a review for a book that smothered you with brilliance?
I wanted to scream to Darrow, “Stop loving your wife!” Which is mean of me, buuuut, he should have listened.I’ll slip in a word about the names too.
Since I’ve read a lot, I can guess a lot of plot twists ahead of time, which takes the glory out of a book for me.
✨THIS WAS AND IS AWESOME!!!! Oh man, why didn’t I read this before? ✨ My heart broke not even 10 chapters in! What that hell? I don’t think I will survive the other books!✨ I feel like some characters that I REALLY LIKE are going to die in the following books, and I’m so not ready for that.✨Oh well, what’s another broken heart, right?Ps: SEVRO don’t you dare die on me!!!!!! BEST CHARACTER ever!! I’m going to be really pissed if he dies 😤.
Definitely surprised me with how good this book was.
