https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78428.Your_Money_or_Your_Life
I could and will read and re-read this book, not for its literary value but for its simple explanations of concrete ways to observe your own connection with the material world.
Yet, just the act of seriously studying this book and hence becoming intentional with my finances has relieved me of debt, anxiety about money, made me more in touch with what is really valuable and joyful to me, and inspired me to look toward a career as a financial counselor.
The prose is laughably hokey at the most inopportune times, but the message is worth slogging through the mantras and the affirmations.
By the time, a year-and-a-half later, I faced the last maudlin step (calculating how much time you have left in your life), I found it so thoroughly shocking (in my case, less than half a million hours based on average life expectancy) that I realized staying in a job that made me miserable wasn't worth it, so I quit.
I guess, in that sense, this book delivers on its hokey promise to change your life.
I'm kind of squeamish about the 5 stars I'm giving this, because I don't think this is a well-written book.
The tone is nearly unbearable at times: think of the most stereotypical motivational speaker you've ever heard.
However, the ideas in this book are impressive, and I find myself thinking about them, rather against my will, even 3 years after having read the book.
However, there's a cycle of spending that I can get hooked into, where I'm blowing hundreds of dollars in 3-5 dollar increments.
Reading this book helped me interrupt that cycle.
As the author says, "who you are is far greater than what you do for money, and your true work is far greater than your paid employment." I thought this was a pretty powerful quote:"Indeed, in terms of sheer hours, we may be more wedded to our jobs than our mates.
The vows for better for worse, richer or poorer, in sickness and health-and often until death do us part-may be better applied to our jobs than our wives and husband."I suppose my only gripe with the book is the utopia of financial independence it paints where a person is able to live off the interest from their investments.
Track every cent you spend.This is a useful step showing how commuting (time and money), buying work clothes, and eating out add to the cost of working for a living.
Show spending in terms of "life energy" spent.An illuminating step.4) Did you like what you bought?The book uses the phrase "gazingus pin" as a term for something you enjoy buying, but don't need.My "gazingus pins" are Legos and DVDs. Who knows how many unopened "cheap" DVDs I've bought!
"Your Money or Life" notes that you only live once, you don't want to spend your life working a job you hate to buy stuff you don't need.
Guides you (gently, gingerly) into reevaluating you preconceived notions about money, how much is enough, and whether you really want to work in a conventional job track for 30+ years (hint: if you don't, there are other options!) The basic idea is that every day you go to work you are choosing to trade your (precious, limited) life energy for money.
But if you dream of doing other things with your life than staring at your monitor at work, or even if you love your job but would do it differently if money weren't an issue, this book is for you!
Could you be doing something you love and be happier if your finances were in order and you appreciated living in a state of "enough"?- When you buy something, buy high quality and take care of it to prolong its life.
than decide if you want to keep working or not.- Investing in index funds and treasury bonds.
Index funds are not managed by expensive managers and tend to have low fees.
By saving on fees (as compared to mutual funds) your money can grow faster and you can have more money in the end.
In the sense that it is actively challenging the reader to basically change her entire life.
It's not the typical finance book that gives tips and tricks, and you can pick among them for those that are easy to work into your life (you know the drill: "cancel cable?
This book tells you to track what you're spending, not to find easy things to cut out, but to ask yourself, about every purchase: was this worth what I paid for it, in terms of the life energy* it takes me to earn that amount of money?
3 stars for the audiobook, but I'm holding my review until I can get a physical copy because people have told me they're much different experiences and the content is more in the physical copy.
I took a month to read this bc I wanted to absorb the book and think about the lessons.
I appreciate my parents' hard work and love them but I also grew up with their habits and views on money.
Just looking at things differently.
This book has made me look at advertising and joy differently.
I see that my buying things just bc I can I am using my husbands life energy into the equation and ruining the planet at the same time.
I want financial freedom and to save money, not be a penny pincher and deny myself things I need.
This book holds so much good advice, it's really a shame that it's written in such a silly fashion.
Also, they try to convince you that surfers will be using the word "frugal" to describe good waves, i.e.
At first I was unsure what good some of the exercises would be -- do I really need to know how much money I've made in my whole life to know that I'm broke now?
My final thought is that, although this book is written in a silly tone, by the time I finished reading it, I had quit my job and gotten a new one that excited me a lot more, had knocked a good chunk off my debt, and had proposed to my girlfriend.
I read the 2008 edition, which I couldn't find when I searched GoodReads.For those who are struggling to save or just get a better understanding of how to handle money, YOUR MONEY OR YOUR LIFE may seem like more than you need to know.The book was actually written with debt-saddled people in mind--seriously debt-saddled, that is.
Therefore, the money you're making not only represents a net value of earnings minus job-related costs--it also represents the life you've sacrificed to maintain that job.Once you understand that money actually represents time in your life, you can start to view spending differently.
It has a spiritual focus but is also immensely practical at the same time, providing you w/ a step-by-step way of figuring out where you are and a way to chart your progress.The only caveats were that this book encourages investments in bonds and I don't know that bonds are a good investment, I'd have to do more research on that.
However, I thought owning your own business was also a viable alternative; I don't know that I completely agree w/ his focus on interest income.
This book really makes you re-examine what it means to have money. It will make you change the way you look at earning money and the way you look at spending money.For those who are interested in not competing with their neighbors in the endless rat-race of social finance, this will teach you how to evaluate your spending habits and spend on those things that bring real value to you - independent of what your family, friends, or neighbors value.
I would think most people who need help managing their money would get frustrated at the amount of time and detail needed to record every cent they make or spend ("even the quarter you find in the vending machine!") and give up before getting to the helpful parts.I almost threw the book away in frustration when the author tried to argue that inflation doesn't exist.
And I cringed at some of the "feel-good" examples of people who followed the program and now spend their days helping the homeless and treating AIDS in Africa.
Despite the silly title and the very outdated information about investing in government bonds (which may have been corrected in later editions - I read this book several years ago), this would be my top recommendation to anyone looking for a good personal finance book.You don't have to use everything in the book or agree with all of the authors' points to get something out of this book.
This is not a "get rich quick" book, which would be appealing to anyone who is turned off by those sorts of titles and/or has another reason for wanting to get more organized with their finances other than wanting money for expensive consumer goods.
(This is your Depression-era grandparents' personal finance book.
A really radical, anti-consumerist, deeply challenging book.
Reading this was like an exercise in seeing how resistant Inder can become - at times, I felt so threatened, I wanted to physically put it aside.
As I told Linda, "It's good to know that this book exists, in case I ever decide to develop a functional, healthy relationship with money." But right now, I'd rather go bungee-cord jumping off an Indiana Jones-style rope bridge (but well-atired, to be sure).

Sobering. I’m interested in the psychology of money and the writing feels old-fashioned at times, but the message is clear. Money is not the end and it shouldn’t control how one lives one’s life.
and how do we get to a place where we're better aligned?
How do we get out of this ridiculous rat race, of "making a dying," and get somewhere much, much better?Combine all of these questions with a concrete program for tracking your money and making sure it's working for you -- and you've got the type of book that you end up reading over and over again, because it works.
Yes, it's another money book, another self-help book, but you know what?
An incredible book and roadmap for people looking to improve their financial control and their ability to enjoy their lives.
Vicki Robin deconstructs many contemporary myths and habits of the typical American consumer (including "more is better," etc.), helps us gain emotional stability over our financial lives, and shows us how to align our relationship with money to achieve our dreams.
For anyone wanting their lives back from endless consumption and the 9-5 schedule, this book literally gives you the blueprint to retire early and spend the rest of your life on your terms.
Anyway, I didn't do it to save money, but because I had too many things.
I read this book on a friend's recommendation--not because I need to save money, but because I wanted to learn something.
My point is that even if your goal isn't to save more money, this book is really useful.
It's useful because it forces you to think about your money.
I feel very lucky and blessed that I love my job so I don't feel like I work just to make money, but I certainly do need to think a lot more about investment and spending.
A little preachy and the investment advice is cursory at best, but wow - some major AH-HAs about how to think about the money you spend and your life’s purpose.
So, the view the book gives into a world where you don't hate your job is a pretty nice one, and it offers encouragement to take risks to feel more satisfied by your work and subsequently the way you are spending your life-hours.Another thing I took from the book is the idea of working with a purpose -- not just working to fill the minutes of the day or because it's "what you do" or even to mindlessly collect money for no other reason than to pay bills and buy stupid shit.
The book was okay, but I've given it a middle of the road rating because I found it excessively wordy.
I would distill the contents of this book to two points: (1) track _all_ of your money (e.g. Quicken or Excel), and (2) understand your cash flow and make sure that your spending aligns with your life goals.
While I don't think highly of the book personally given my background and experiences, it is not a bad book and the information contained therein is applicable to the novice who quite possibly never tracked their personal finances before or put a currency value on their time.
To follow its steps will most certainly be a lot of work, but I am excited to start the program and I look forward to the freedom that will inevitably come from figuring out how much money we really need to survive and thrive.
I have loved other personal finance authors, my favorite being David Bach for his quick and easy advice to becoming financially secure (how to pay off debt, how much to invest in retirement, how and where to save your money), but this book is not just about steps.
It is much more introspective, more therapeutic and most certainly life changing.
:-)^Click to Watch my review (CC included!)^ הספר הכסף שלך או החיים שלך מדבר על אחד הנושאים הכי רגישים בחיים שלנו: הכסףשלנו - ומבטיח 9 צעדים בדרך לעצמאות כלכלית שהיא: לא לעבוד למחייתך דרך ניהול פיננסי חכם והבנת הפסיכולוגיה שמאחורי הניהול הכלכלי.
הוא מדבר על ניצני מרוץ ההנאה ומסביר למה הוא האויב הכי גדול בדרך אל החופשעל מניעים פסיכולוגים שלא משחררים אותנו מהעבודה, הרצון לעבוד מעבר למה שאנחנובאמת צריכים ואיך לקחת את המושכות לשנות את התפיסה לגבי הכסף ולהתחיל לחיות.הספר מדבר על חופש ועצמאות כלכלית אבל לי הוא מאוד עזר בקבלת אומץ.
טוב, אני מניח שכל אחד והמספיק שלו :-)כדי לשמוע אותי מדבר עליו:מוזמנים לצפות בסיקור בערוץ שלי^Click to Watch my review (CC included!)^ מומלץ מאוד!
(It originally came out in the '70s, I believe, and was updated in the mid-90s.) Basically it's a nine-step plan to early retirement, based on determining your optimal comfort level in life, and what sort of income is required to sustain that.
I don't currently have any plans to follow the entire program, but I did think that the sections where they talked about determining the real value of something you buy -- both in terms of how many hours you had to work to afford it, as well as in terms of how much enjoyment you'll get out of it.
There's also an interesting visual method for charting income and expenses that I might adopt.
Probably everyone should read this book. Retirement has nothing to do with age and everything to do with financial independence. In our culture we tend to think retirement just happens automatically, but most older people are finding it harder to retire, and some younger people (like Mr. Money Mustache) are starting to find that they can retire much earlier.After completing the first reading, I'm starting to read through this again to go through the nine steps.
Different than any other financial planning book you've read. Teaches a more holistic way to think about how you feel about life changes the context of your money. Talks about changing the way you think about money and the value you get out of the hours of your life to make your life and bank account feel more full. While partly ideological - has very practical tips you can put to use today to make a difference in your finances. One of the books I wish I could make everyone read.
