https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/760702.Goodbye_to_Berlin
Sexual life may have its satisfactions, but Isherwood appears to fear the power of the emotions, I wonder if in part this is because 'Peter Wilkinson' and 'Sally Bowles' are alter egos of Isherwood rather than real people.
Peace is indivisible, as Molotov said, without a cocktail in his hand.Why, I wondered did Isherwood stay so long in Berlin - he doesn't seem to have liked it, not even the gay bar and the nightclub, but then the whole book comes down to performance and staging, the art of being a photographer perhaps is in knowing when to take a picture, and I suspect at some point he is staying to collect stories.
Goodbye to Berlin indeed!, at least as it was, and the rest of Europe for that matter, as storm is growing within the German establishment, a storm that will go on to wreak havoc across the land and neighboring Poland as Hilter sets in motion the beginning of the darkest time for humanity in the twentieth century.
Isherwood's "Mr Norris Changes Trains" was also to be part of "The Lost", and there are contradicting overlaps between that and "Goodbye to Berlin" which would have come together had he decided on the full length novel.
"Even now I cant altogether believe that any of this has really happened ..."But it did happen. All of it. Although the Goodbye to Berlin is only semi autobiographic it gives a fine picture of Berlin between wars. The poor staying poor, the rich getting richer, the intellectuals turning communists and the working class looking for a strong leader to set everything right.In between the class struggle is "Herr Christoph", a foreigner, an upcoming writer, teaching English to spoiled upper class kid
The poor staying poor, the rich getting richer, the intellectuals turning communists and the working class looking for a strong leader to set everything right.In between the class struggle is "Herr Christoph", a foreigner, an upcoming writer, teaching English to spoiled upper class kids for a penny and once in a while free riding in high society.It´s not that easy to make a lasting impression as a writer in your threadbare clothes and old shoes, when your last (and only) novel sold just 5 copies.So why are you here, Herr Christoph?
I was recently reading “Eminent Outlaws: The Gay Writers Who Changed America” by Christopher Bram; in it he discussed Christopher Isherwood and “Goodbye to Berlin.” Ironically my online book group was reading it at the same time.
Instead she seems content to sleep her way to success, only the poor creature hasn’t the good sense to sleep with the appropriate people.
The scenes with Chris, Peter and Otto on the island were truly inspired.
Sally, Otto, Peter, Bernhard…does Christopher seek out neurotic, wayward people because he “likes” them or because as a writer he finds them fascinating?
But I did expect to be reading about Sally Bowles and her exploits at the Kit Kat Club – after all, in Dickens Fagin doesn’t sing "You’ve Got to Pick a Pocket or Two" but he is there for the duration - so what a disappointment when Sally turns up only for 66 pages and it’s just kind of mentioned that she’s a got a 2 week gig as a nightclub singer and there’s no Kit Kat Club at all, so no outrageous MC and no camp drag acts, and after 66 pages no Sally Bowles.
So we just get a dreary succession of Berlin characters who are kind of there for a bit and then not there, just like people are in life.
Isherwood knows that his naivete only takes him so far-- he seeks out experience and we are all the richer for it."Goodbye to Berlin" is a twofold title in personal and historic terms.
Isherwood never left Berlin-- he entertains and proves to be an astute, intrepid travel companion.
But when his physical person DID manage to get out, it was just in the nick of time: Hitler's rise is seen as the very death of German bohemia.
Isherwood is present at this pivotal & revelatory instant of the 20th century, but only at the margins; this is a compelling, fascinating, far-more-than-just-"interesting" travelogue.
Όχι.Ακόμα και τώρα δεν μπορώ να πιστέψω πως κάτι από όλα αυτά συνέβη στ’ αλήθεια…Μ’ αυτή την πρόταση κλείνει ο συγγραφέας αυτό το γλυκόπικρο,νοσταλγικό-και εν μέρει αυτοαναφορικό-βιβλίο.Ένα βιβλίο που προϊδεάζει για τα πρώτα σημάδια του ναζισμού που έρχεται το 1933 και θα ταράξει όχι μόνο την Γερμανία,μα και ολόκληρη την Ευρώπη.Άνθρωποι που έχουν κλειστεί σε μια γυάλα (ψευτο)ευτυχίας νιώθουν κάτι ν’αλλάζει.Ο συγγραφέας φωτογραφίζει τους έρωτές τους,τα όνειρά τους,τις αδυναμίες τους.Όλα αυτά σ’έν
Όχι.Ακόμα και τώρα δεν μπορώ να πιστέψω πως κάτι από όλα αυτά συνέβη στ’ αλήθεια…Μ’ αυτή την πρόταση
This was not quite what I expected and I wish I had ended up liking it more than I did.
The famous sentence from the first page is “I am a camera with its shutter open, quite passive, recording, not thinking".
Christopher Isherwood created the novel out of his diaries he kept in Berlin in the early 1930s.
Towards the end, Hitler was rising, the city gradually changing and the writer decided to leave Berlin for good.
This is the section I really liked.
I acknowledge the writing, honest and clear, but the camera was way too passive and distant.

Christopher Isherwood lived in Berlin in the early 1930s, recorded his experiences in his diaries, and later created the fictional "Goodbye to Berlin".
There were clashes between different political factions.His characters are unforgettable, and often sleazy, unlikable people.
Isherwood uses very different dialogue for each character so they seem like unique individuals.Isherwood left Berlin in 1933 as the city became dangerous and violent.
It was the end of an era, and time to say "goodbye" to Berlin.
It's a grey day here in Montreal, and this book made it even more grey and gloomy.
But as I was walking through town this morning, I thought of the characters of Isherwood's Berlin of the thirties and thought how sad that a city so full of glitz and art and culture and promise could be wrecked and turned into the heart of a beast in a matter of a few years.It could happen here.
Even Sally, the "Upper Class Waif" is terribly tragic in her own funny way.Well, Goodbye to Berlin and Goodbye to sad, lonely books.
Christopher Isherwood lived in Berlin from 1929 to 1933 and kept detailed diaries, from which he created this novel.
It's a slow mover, but it has a sense of reality that tells you Isherwood didn't stray too far from his diaries to create it.
Knowing of the horrors to come, I could not keep the tears from flowing as I read of Isherwood's last morning in Berlin: "To-day the sun is brilliantly shining; it is quite mild and warm.
The sun shines, and Hitler is master of this city."
Εξ ου και οι ζωντανές εικόνες μιας πόλης στην πλέον παρακμάζουσα εκδοχή της καταρρέοντας οικονομικά και κοινωνικά την ίδια στιγμή που ο φασισμός εξαπλώνεται δημιουργώντας το μοναδικό συναίσθημα που ούτως ή άλλως επεδίωκε: τον φόβο.Στα διηγήματα του Isherwood συναντάμε τα πάντα: καταπιεσμένους από κάθε άποψη κυρίους της καλής κοινωνίας, νεαρές αμφιβόλου ηθικής αλλά και από εκείνες της αυστηρής ανατροφής, ηθικά διλήμματα, κρυμμένες και συνεπώς καταπιεσμένες σεξουαλικότητες, κλασσικά πρότυπα ανδρών και γυναικών αλλά και τα αντίθετά τους καθώς και όλους τους κοινωνικούς, ηθικούς και όχι μόνο κανόνες και τις εξαιρέσεις τους.
Maybe it has to do with British reserve, or with things changing in the eighty years or so since Isherwood was collecting this material, but his character seems oddly diffident and detached at times.
Maybe that shouldn't be a surprise in a book whose major focus is not Berlin, or Sally Bowles, but a young writer's search for a voice, search for a subject appropriate to his attentions.
Here's a passage from an intentionally confusing scene in which a member of the wealthy merchant family, Bernhard, invites "Christopher Isherwood" for a drive: "The car whirled along the black Avus, into the immense darkness of the winter countryside.
It all makes for an eclectic mix, especially given the fact that Bobby and Frl. Kost are having an affair, a development that may well explain Frl. Schroeder’s jealousy over the girl.Without a doubt, the standout piece in this novel is the second story, Sally Bowles.
269, The Berlin Novels)I love that passage as it seems to capture the essence of Sally’s character – in particular, her alluring voice and provocative behaviour.Fairly soon after their first meeting, Sally invites Christopher to tea at her lodgings a gloomy semi-furnished place presided over by a rather eccentric old landlady.
Whilst in Berlin recently we went to see Cabaret in German in a spiegeltent. Splendid. Naturally I was looking forward to reading about the very same Sally Bowles in this book, but it turns out that Sally Bowles is a complete English Arse. Utterly unbearable. I think it would be fair to say she's been thoroughly fixed up for the musical and bravo for that decision. Certainly this book improves on the pages in which she is not to be found. There is much to separate this book from Kästner's  Going
Whilst in Berlin recently we went to see Cabaret in German in a spiegeltent.
Naturally I was looking forward to reading about the very same Sally Bowles in this book, but it turns out that Sally Bowles is a complete English Arse.
Certainly this book improves on the pages in which she is not to be found.
There is much to separate this book from Kästner's 
. Partly it is a matter of style - Isherwood's humour, when it arises, is entirely ordinary, whilst Kästner's is odd to say the least.
What didn’t work for me was the excessively detached style and the fact that references to the political situation appeared mostly as exposition, lacking the subtlety and nuance that Cabaret delivered so well.Despite having raved about the setting, I can safely say that this was the only redemptive quality.
I don’t think that the vignette style entirely worked given that there was very little by way of compelling relationships or characters, elements that might otherwise have drawn some emotional investment.
I thoroughly, thoroughly enjoyed the accounts of wild raves and Isherwood’s uncanny prescience, but ultimately I expected more from a time so enriched with flourishing creativity and political instability.
Temo sempre ser injusta com o livro, com a história ou histórias, com o autor (ainda que eu não conheça pessoalmente este última e, na maioria das vezes, nem venha a conhecer).
E o pior disso tudo foi a sensação de culpa que se instalou em mim por não conseguir "aderir" ao estilo de escrita e à história em si mesma.
Pensei estar diante de um livro uno e não de um conjunto de histórias que o autor vai contando acerca da sua passagem por Berlim entre meados dos anos 20-30, nas quais não encontrei um fio condutor que me conseguisse cativar a atenção.
La vita al tempo della Repubblica di Weimar scorre perfino lieta, anche brillante tra café, locali notturni, gite sul Wannsee, i resti della Belle Époque che stenta a cedere il passo all'austerità da inflazione, ma Isherwood rende perfettamente la cappa di terrore impotente che, senz'altro, aleggiava allora su Berlino e la Germania tutta.
Eccelso pittore che tratteggia in modo scarno, perfetto, quasi giornalistico il terrore montante, l'accettazione passiva, la mancanza quasi generale di ribellione dei cittadini ariani e l'adattamento silenzioso alle nuove, mortifere leggi.
En forma de breves relatos, Isherwood nos muestra algunos aspectos del Berlín de los primeros años del nacismo. La capacidad narrativa refleja personajes que cautivan y otros que desagradan, pero que son atractivos...Y el autor actúa como una cámara que registra todo lo que ocurre, exponiéndolo ante nosotros como un gran friso que retrata la ciudad.
"Ti sei stancato di Berlino alla fine?""Oh no ...Più che altro, direi, è Berlino che si è stancata di me.""Allora tornerai?""Sì immagino di sì.""Secondo me tornerai sempre , Christopher: questa sembra proprio la tua città""Forse hai ragione""È strano come ogni persona sembri avete un luogo suo...Specialmente se non ci è nata.
"It is strange how people seem to belong to places — especially to places where they were not born..." Christopher Isherwood brings us fragments of his time in lost Berlin. The odd, bewildered people that he met along the way, the friends who somehow naturally dissolved in and out of each page, the magnitude of the city as it moved within them as their stories unfolded. Sally Bowles was my favourite, Capote's Holly Golightly couldn't even touch her. The book is divided into sections that give a
"It is strange how people seem to belong to places — especially to places where they were not born..."
Christopher Isherwood brings us fragments of his time in lost Berlin.
The odd, bewildered people that he met along the way, the friends who somehow naturally dissolved in and out of each page, the magnitude of the city as it moved within them as their stories unfolded.
Sally Bowles was my favourite, Capote's Holly Golightly couldn't even touch her.
The book is divided into sections that give a somewhat chronological perspective on a pre-Hitler era and a time of decadence once the Nazis took over.
Bernhard Landauer was Gatsby, particularly in the scene where he has a garden party and plays as though he's having a good time, tries to fit in with the rest, but is clearly not up to the occasion and unable to really let loose.
Many of his guests are described as coming to talk to other guests, not to see him, which was sort of the way of Gatsby's parties, wasn't it?
Then there's this speech, given after a character asks what another thinks of Lord Byron being charged with incest:"Shall we allow that the man of genius is an exceptional person who may do exceptional things?
2.5 stars rounded up to 3This novel, which is more like short stories (but it's called a novel where I read about it) is based on Isherwood's years in Berlin (he was there from 1929-1933) and people he knew.
I found this sad and at times rather tragic, which is in part due to the times this is set (the Nazis rise to power happened during this time) and in part to the lives of some of the people (not always directly related to the politics).
He certainly knew some colourful people, and perhaps I will finally watch the movie Cabaret.
Anyway, I didn't think about this book once while I was lounging by the pool or frolicking in the surf like the good little Australian that I am (the stereotype broke down when I took out my copy of Great Expectations, but it was nice while it lasted), which goes to show that it wasn't really that great.
I think perhaps I was trying too hard to read it as a historical document, or even historical fiction written with the benefit of hindsight, but all it is really is an account of some dull writer guy's fairly incomprehensible behaviour.
Οι ιστορίες είναι γοητευτικες και κυρίως το τελευταίο κομμάτι του βιβλίου όπου περιγράφει το θανάσιμο δίλημμα του Εβραίου Μπερχαρντ με την ολοφάνερη δυσκαμπτη και καταπιεσμενη σεξουαλικη στάση απέναντι στον συγγραφέα, αλλά και τα δύο κομμάτια του ημερολογίου του για τα γεγονότα των ημερών, τα οποία πραγματικά δίνουν μια δημοσιογραφική εικόνα της καθημερινότητας λίγο πριν την 30η Ιανουαρίου 1933, ημέρα που ο Χίτλερ έλαβε εντολή σχηματισμού Κυβέρνησης.
Η ιστορία της Σάλι Μποουλ είναι αδιάφορη για μένα· όμως τόσο η ιστορία των Πίτερ και Ότο όσο και των Νόβακ και Λανταουερ αναπαράγουν μια πραγματική εικόνα της εποχής, λίγο σκληρή, λίγο στιφή αλλά πραγματικά τόσο μα τόσο ρεαλιστική!Διαβάζεται γρήγορα...
Perhaps the impassive setting down of observable facts and behaviours allowed Isherwood to add both depth and resonance to this episode and its characters but also made it palatable for a less tolerant readership at that time."The Landauers" 'chapter' imposes itself on the reader in a more startling way than the previous 'chapters' because of how it openly portrays the building menace of Nazism where previously it was an undertone.
In fact, very few of the characters in this novel are truly likable."Berlin Diary II" closes the story.
Basically, in a very short space of time, Goodbye to Berlin and Isherwood more generally went from not even being on my radar to being MUST READ IMMEDIATELY.
You conclude this book feeling like something is going to happen after you turn the final page, and of course, as history tells us, it did.If you, like me, come to reading this book because of Cabaret, be aware that there are stark differences.
I certainly feel that I got a much better grasp of the social context after reading it, even though I think the film gets the lingering menace of Nazism and casual decline of values better than Isherwood does.
Addio a Berlino: un doppio addio, l’addio di una partenza e l’addio ad una città che non sarà mai più la stessa.Nel libro sono raccolti sei frammenti dell’esperienza di Isherwood a Berlino, città in cui visse dal 1930 al 1933Un libro quadro che ritrae personaggi e luoghi con una bravura eccezionale, attraverso le caratteristiche fisiche, i gesti, le manie e gli abiti le persone descritte sembrano saltare fuori dalle pagine, sono vivide, reali.Accompagniati da Isherwood siamo immersi per un breve periodo nella vita di queste persone.
Engaging collection of connected short stories showing life in 1930-32 Berlin from the perspective of a relatively poor Englishman. The section on Sally Bowles was of course familiar to me from the musical Cabaret though I got a slightly different impression of her character from the book.Isherwood's writing is engaging and I look forward to reading another of his books.
