https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6526.Book_of_the_Dead
Book Review  3+ of 5 stars for Book of the Dead, the 15th book in the "Kay Scarpetta" thriller series, written in 2007 by Patricia Cornwell. When I saw the title and read the description, I had very high expectations of this book. I really enjoy the series and hoped it would explore a bit of the occult side, perhaps venturing a little into historical Egyptian themes like the movie "The Mummy," which I love. I won't spoil anything, but it wasn't exactly what I thought it would be. Still a decen
3+ of 5 stars for Book of the Dead, the 15th book in the "Kay Scarpetta" thriller series, written in 2007 by Patricia Cornwell.
When I saw the title and read the description, I had very high expectations of this book.
Still a decent book in the series, and worth a read for a fan of Scarpetta, it was not without issues.
Characters are always memorable, and Cornwell does a great job at showing the crazed personalities of these serial killers.
For those new to me or my reviews...
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
Many thanks to their original creators.
This book was terrible!
Last winter I got turned onto Cornwell and I read all of her books in order.
This book however showed a complete melt down of all the characters.
Kay has been completely shrunk down and doesn't seem like the same person she was in the beginning.
The switch to third person was a terrible move.
I liked it better when it was just the body and the evidence and they had to go from there.
I don't enjoy reading about torture and the actual killing.
I'd rather start with the body.
I doubt I will ever read her again.
Ugh.Why is it that when an author becomes as famous as Patricia C.
that suddenly the editors are afraid to say when something is awful???Even if they didn't love the book and thought the plot was ridiculous and the characters unbelievable, you'd think at LEAST they'd make the author eliminate some of the repetitive comments (if all the repetition in this book were eliminated, it would be cut by at least a third.
(Maybe the same could be said of Patricia herself?).This group of people takes the fun right out of dysfunction.
When did Marino morph from a fifty-something pot-bellied detective into (a dozen books later) a fifty-something muscle-bound biker dude?
And leaving the book with Marino MIA is a cheap trick.Oh, and did I say it was repetitive?
Repetitive.
This book gets a three because I like the series as a whole, will probably always like it, and will keep reading until she either dies or ends the series.
I liked the fact that there was new Kay Scarpetta material, I guess.
I also like that she has her own office and facility again - that whole Florida episode was just odd.What I don't like is the fact that Cornwell insists on making every single major character completely miserable all the time.
PC had the perfect chance with this book, this storyline to bring the characters full circle.
The team of Scarpetta, Marino, Lucy and Wesley is coming apart at the seams.
Using Dr Self and the animous she has for Kay (kept waiting for that to blow...never happened), and manipulating Marino.....Rose being so prominent.
What's with Scarpetta crying for the bird that flys into the window but lets her longtime friend and partner sink.
This was the time for BENTON WESLEY uber shrink to step up.
Damn I sure wish she'd go back to the 1st person narrative and bring the characters back from the dark side.
But I read 200 pages of it, so I feel somewhat qualified to say that this book fails in many ways.I love old-school Patricia Cornwell.
We no longer have that integral connection to the main character.
The murders are still interesting, but the characters have become boring and repetitive.
In Book of the Dead, we see Cornwell's characters reciting the same old lines and engaging in the same old behaviors from books from years past - few of the characters seem to have grown in any positive or redemptive way at all.
Rich finally asked me why I was still reading it after i exclaimed aloud for the umpteenth time about how awful it was, and all I could do to explain was talk about how much I enjoyed the early books she wrote and how I couldn't believe how it kept getting worse and I had to see how it panned out.
As I read I kept thinking about how many cardinal signs of mental illness were present in different elements of the book - rampant paranoia by some characters, weird fixations, hypersexualization, hugely disordered thinking.
I read this book because I've read the whole Kay Scarpetta series, but I'm a little dismayed.
I dunno if Cornwell is tired of these characters or is having a hard time in her own life, but she's turned these characters into such bitter, screwed up freaks that the books are getting depressing.
If I hadn't invested myself in these people several books ago, there's no way I would've bothered to finish this, I think.
The murder mystery part of it was interesting, but it wasn't enough to distract from the empty and painful lives Cornwell's visited upon all her main charcters.
Το ότι από 430κάτι σελίδες με ιντρίγκαρε μόνο η τύχη του Μαρίνο στο τέλος, λέει από μόνο του πολλά. Ίσως η χειρότερη απογοήτευση όλων, γιατί από τον τίτλο του περίμενα πολλά. Κρίμα, πραγματικά.
No More Cornwell.In my opinion this has got to be one of the worst books Cornwell has written.Ok, I understand that the story have to do with people who have serious psychological problems but it seems that Cornwell decided to make all the characters …….
really mad.Kay Scarpetta is an unhappy and boring woman.
everything it’s her mama’s fault.The men, lets see how I can describe some of the main characters.
And the Italian carabiniero look more like a “no brain model” whose only concern is to flirt with Scarpetta.Boring…… boring…..boring.I really struggled on through to the end, but it is not that bad if you want to read something easy on the airplane, like me, or in the beach.
I gave up reading the Scarpetta series 20 pages into this book when I realized I didn't give a you-know-what about the fate of the characters--didn't care if they lived or died. I gave it 1 star just to give it a rating, but in my opinion, it doesn't even deserve that.
I fear even an autopsy would struggle to uncover anything new here.
I have loved the Kay Scarpetta series since its inception but have been disappointed in the last three and this one I am adding to that list.
The ending was something of a damp squib and it isn't the first time I have felt this from Cornwell's recent Scarpetta novels.
I still hope for a return to form but from now on I shall wait and not buy in the first flush of excitment about the arrival of a new Scarpetta novel unless highly reviewed.Cornwell's campaign to get her ratings on Amazon and Barnes & Noble higher haven't impressed me either.
Rose puts it all in perspective when she makes this comment to Kay.."You don't confront people about their feelings and all it does is make things..."This was by far one of the worst books of the Scarpetta series ever.
Another reviewer commented on the characters and asked “Why do the characters have to be angry all the time?” I second that.
Benton and Scarpetta are together but their relationship is distant, but that’s nothing new.
I appreciate the fact the author has changed this series to keep things interesting, but I honestly think she choose the wrong path.
I do think Cornwell has lost her touch - or more probably, doesn't care enough anymore.
Nonetheless, the book was an enjoyable read, although I thought the ending was disappointing.
And the gratuitous technical descriptions, whether of computers or chemicals, just amuse me in a way they probably shouldn't.
And you spelt out all the numbers in case we didn't understand what 256 meant.I'll probably still read her next book, because I know they're diverting enough for me to find interesting, but it's with much less enjoyment and much less suspense than was true for her earlier books.
Patricia Cornwell's newest book opens with a graphic chapter on a woman who is being tortured.
Throughout the book, they were spatting.
Pete has gone through a lot of things, but this last iteration of his "love" for Scarpeta is a little over the top.I also felt the ending was a little pushed - wrapping everything up in a hurry with not much attention on the murderer.
But still, it was a nice read and kept my attention - I got through most of it on my two two-hour plane flights when we went to Florida.

This is Cornwell's 15th Kay Scarpetta book.
And finally Marino is dating a horny skank who is getting him to rub testosterone gel on his body so he can take care of her needs.
Marino steps way over the line with Kay and then disappears.Oh yeah, the murder....well, the Sandman has killed some women including a young tennis star Drew Martin in Rome.
He has also been getting psychiatric help from media star Dr. Marilyn Self as was Drew Martin.
Oh yeah...Marino was too.
See, Dr. Self hates Dr. Scarpetta based on the book prior to this one.Hopefully the murder will someday be the focus of Cornwell's books again.
And in the spirit of throwing myself on a grenade (reading it so you don't have to) I will review this one.First of all, Cornwell continues her de-evolution of her characters that started somewhere about "The Body Farm." She totally jumps the shark when she resurrected Benton several books back and “The Book of the Dead” continues her new tradition of incomprehensible plot, incomprehensible character motivation, dialogue that lies flat as road kill, and a world populated exclusively by misogynists, racists, bigots, psychopaths, sociopaths, homicidal maniacs, thugs, morons, and, in general, all-around misanthropes.
But the worst is Marino.
Patricia hates him, apparently.
Cornwell shifts her Scarpetta series away from the balmy clime of south Florida to the enchanting streets of Charleston, South Carolina.
While it is hard to keep things fresh this far into a series, the continual change and pitfalls makes it a little harder to rein in, especially for readers who consider themselves great fans, as I do.
I seek some stability, while Cornwell seeks to keep things unstable and on thin ice, in hopes that major change will produce new and exciting paths down which Scarpetta can travel.
Y hablando de personajes la verdad es que todos me sorprendieron, son increíblemente complejos y están muy bien desarrollados, aunque algunos no me agradaron del todo, reconozco que la autora tiene bien desarrollada esa parte y se agradece, porque al ser en serie pudiese resultar tedioso o que al no conocer la historia de todos simplemente no te intereses, pero la verdad es que sucede lo contrario, te dan ganas de leer más sobre ellos :D Así que eso me lleva al estilo narrativo, que no es complejo, pero que logra atraparte desde el principio, no hay momentos flojos o innecesarios y la historia se va desarrollando a un ritmo agradable que no se siente lento y que al llegar a la parte final todo cobra sentido y entonces lo que hacen a lo largo de la historia empieza a conectarse y así te encuentras con una historia interesante, que si bien no es una rueda de la fortuna en emociones, tiene la increíble característica de hacer que quieras saber más, no se va por las ramas y tampoco tiene cosas que no van.
I came to the conclusion that Kay, Benton, Lucy, and in his own way, Marino, are all highly intelligent people that lack emotional and social smarts.
I want Kay and Marino to resume the relationship they used to have back in the best books of Patricia Cornwell's career, The Body Farm and From Potter's Field.
I don't know if that is intentional based on their intelligence and relationships; like married people who can finish each other's sentences and have to only say a short phrase or word to know what the other is thinking.
I find books about murdering psychopaths interesting, I admit that, but in this case it felt like the murder story was hidden way too far behind the crappy behaviour of the main characters and that the story definitely did not get to the bottom with the actual "mystery" of the book.I read this book in EnglishSvensk titelDE DÖDAS BOKAbsolut inte min favorit bland böckerna om Scarpetta.
Det känns som att de bara blir sämre och sämre, och jag är så less på att allting centreras kring Scarpetta.
The focus was on science, one upmanship and computer toys, not the victims.It may be that Ms Cornwall also came to the same conclusion; one moment I thought I was reading the climax of the whole story, when no!
the climax appears to be abandoned and the final chapter crawls on describing the dire, miserable relationship between Benton and Scarpetta.Personally, I think Ms Scarpetta (or perhaps Ms Cornwall?) should read some good ol' bodice rippers and get some life in the woman!
I am so angry, I decided not to continue reading -- and I very, very rarely fail to finish a book.
One thing I can't stand is when authors use characters to express and advance their own personal political viewpoints.
I read fiction -- especially mysteries, thrillers, etc., to be entertained, not to have anyone's personal and political agenda crammed down my throat.
The worst part is that Cornwell's political viewpoint as expressed in this book is so typical of people who are incapable of engaging in independent, critical thought.
Personally I will never pick up another Cornwell book again.
Anyone relatively close *coughs* Facebook/Tumblr/Twitter friends *coughs* knows how much I am fascinated with murder mystery plots because of my not-so-fleeting interest with criminology, crime psychology and criminal profiling. That is probably why I had a hard time comprehending why I didn't like this book.The accurate descriptions were there. The serial killer plot was there. The unrelenting search is ever present.Then I realized, BAM, her characters suck. Not they suck as in they are despica
That is probably why I had a hard time comprehending why I didn't like this book.The accurate descriptions were there.
The serial killer plot was there.
The unrelenting search is ever present.Then I realized, BAM, her characters suck.
Not they suck as in they are despicable people that should not have lived.
No, they suck as in they are unlovable people and the way they are presented in the book annoys me to no end.
They ramble and their issues take too much time away from what's really important ‎-‎-‎- finding the serial killer.I guess dealing with any of Cornwell's books is a gamble.
I've read and loved all the Scarpetta books but this one was terrible.
The story is told very erratically.
She uses unfamiliar vocabulary and abbreviations, discusses procedures in unnecessary detail, and gives minute descriptions that are not pertinent to the story.
People I used to like refuse to talk to each other and now find their lives a total mess.
Even more aggravating is that the plot was interesting but did not live up to its promise.
I already own the next book in the series so will probably give her one more chance.
I AM DONE WITH THESE!I mistakenly bought a four book set and have been picking my way year by year up to the number in the series.The plot is ludicrous, but the plot is always crazy. Hannibal Lecter-meets a soap opera with a fine skim of a comic book.For a writer, what Cornwell does is show you the incredible amount of bull shit people will read and believe - at least enough to make you millions of dollars. It's truly astounding.
[I don't remember this plot at all, except a vague recollection of this book. Re-read.]
i started this one this morning after feeding my cat.
