https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/68634.War_as_I_Knew_It
I read this books and simultaneously watched a few films about Patton.
-- (The 'd' word.) It was a perfectly good Patton word to use.
I would really give this book 3 1/2 stars---I liked the beginning and the end, but the middle got a little dry.
Throughout the book there were plenty of anecdotes teaching leadership skills.
Patton was so educated and an excellent writer.
This book contained his letters to his wife, from Africa, and the history and culture he shares is fascinating.
I would recommend this to any WWII fan, history buffs, and those wishing to learn more leadership skills!
One of my great uncles was part of Patton's 3rd Army, and when he died, his rotten f-ing grandkids attacked his house like locusts, tossing out 80+ years of keepsakes & antiques that they couldn't pawn or sell on ebay. One of my little treasures that my mom snagged was his copy of "War as I Knew It". The only truly charasmatic person I've ever been in the presence of was Pope John Paul II, and that was simply stunning. I cant imagine what it was like to be around Patton. The man truly was larger than life.
Published in 1947 just two years after his death, General George S. Patton's "War As I Knew It" was assembled and edited from his wartime diary. It is fascinating reading, but needs to be read as a diary, not an autobiography, and if the reader has a knowledge of events beyond what is in the diary it helps.
This reads like a travel log through the eyes of one the greatest generals as he treks through war stricken land during WWII.
When he stops in Sicily, Patton spends pages admiring the ancient ruins.
It is hard not to wonder how Patton would have fared against some of those Ancient generals who were know for their innovative tactics.
Hannibal or Alexander The Great or Scipio versus Patton all with ancient equipment or modern all with modern equipment.
If you're interested in military history or war tactics, you probably have read this book, but if you haven't, it is worth your time.
This was a surprising good read. I'm definitely not a Patton fan, but his widow who was instrumental in getting this book published kept some of Patton's more hairbrained ideas out of this work and significantly toned down portrayal of his famous ego. I recommend this book to anyone with even a casual interest in World War II.
He was much more than a general who "slapped" a soldier. We need more like him.
Patton's memoirs of WWII are interesting on many levels.
Second, Patton includes his lessons on war toward the end of his memoirs.
It is far easier to withdraw if necessary than to make an opposed crossing against a determined enemy.Third, the final section of the memoirs is Pattons collection of instances in which he feels that he "earned his pay." These are circumstances in which he feels that made a difference in an event that produced a positive benefit.

George S. Patton, Jr., in spite of his weaknesses and propensity to enrage General Eisenhower from time to time, whether by comments or actions, was World War II's most brilliant field commander. His near total recall of of battles fought, from North Africa to Sicily to Italy, France and Germany is remarkable. Patton describes his wartime experiences in a way that makes the reader feel as if he or she is sitting with him and hearing about the war in great detail...as General Patton perceived it.
Great words from an even Greater man!
Patton's own eloquent words, hard to put it down.
non-fiction. excellent and highly relevant
One of our greatest generals indeed.
What a strange and funky little book!
Patton's "memoir" published first in 1947 .
But since he passed in 1945 in a vehicle accident, it's not the smooth finished product it might be to make it truly comparable to most other WWII memoirs.
It's rough and seems to be a hodge-podge of extant materials cobbled together for a quick book profit.
The book covers the whole American European Campaign from Operation Torch in North Africa to the end in Central Germany/The Czech Republic, with plenty of fun stops along the way.
Plenty of anecdotes to improve both Dioramas and Scenarios, and some good directives to guide the gamer/tactician.
Even if you aren’t interested in military history, War as I Knew It is a must-read simply for the quintessential Patton quotes, entertaining anecdotes, and guidance on leadership.
Further, I think it preserves General Patton’s true beliefs.
The fact that he died shortly after the conclusion of World War II, with War As I Knew It being published after his death, prevents the book from becoming biased or overly critical of others on account of hindsight.
I read this immediately following a biography on Generals Eisenhower, Patton, and Bradley, and War As I Knew It complimented this bigger-picture book nicely.
This should be read as a companion piece to other non-autobiographical versions for a more rounded picture of GSPj. However, it's still a brilliant work on it's own. He does shade over some of his worse moments, but he also shades the failures of others.A complex book by a complex man.
An interesting take by Patton and should be read by historians and military enthusiast for his observations and comments.
For a book published more than 70 years ago, still an interesting read
A very good book on the way Patton fought and worked. Recommended for any one interested in the most unique man in World War II
But sprinkled throughout are Patton's philosophies, personal stories, jokes, and historical reflections that make it worthwhile.Much of the beginning of the book, the North Africa campaign, isn't about fighting but rather about the people he met and visited.
He reads the Norman Invasion as he prepares to take the Third Army across Europe.The last chapter deals with personal stories from war, including serving under General Pershing while chasing Poncho Villa into Mexico.
Patton only mentions such an incident in the last chapter, and never suggests any repercussions from it.The man probably never intended for his journals to be published as they were, but they're historically great.
In this book, Patton reflects on his military career from the invasion of Morocco to the end of the war in Europe (he died shortly after the war ended).
Early on, in the chapters on Morocco, he spends much time talking about the architecture, the landscape, the trees, the clothing, the customs of the royal leaders, and so on.
His description of Africa early on, and also his thoughts on the performance of his soldiers (good and bad), as well as the tactical decisions made in the war, are all illuminating and reveal a different side of Patton than you might expect.
One must look elsewhere for a realization that the relationships between Patton and Eisenhower and Bradley were crucial and changed as the war progressed.I read this book in the hopes of getting a better understanding of Patton's approach to the war which he led.
As a first hand report on the war, I do not rate it up with Eisenhower's "Crusade in Europe" (see my Amazon review).
For an understanding of Patton, I recommend "Patton: Ordeal and Triumph" by Ladislas Farago (see my Amazon review) as a starting point with "War As I Knew It" as a supplemental work.
I've long admired GEN Patton, and find him imminently quotable.
When I saw this book on my dad's bookshelf, I thought - I can't believe I've never read this.
You don't get a sense for what he thought, how he felt, or how the war changed him.
Perhaps it's because Patton was a man born to be a soldier and a leader, and the war didn't change him at all.
Without extensive knowledge of WWII units and battlefield geography, though, this is a pretty difficult read without anything that connects you emotionally to the man himself.
I learned a lot about Patton himself and a lot about the inside details of a war.
A good thing for me, since I'm not really a history or military buff!There were parts where he wrote about statics that were very boring to me.
. .You'll especially like it if you like war strategy.
Lots of which division was being controlled by which general and all that kind of stuff is in there as well.I was surprised that in his writing he sounds like a demur and humble man.
He got things done, but doesn't write as bombastically as it sounded like he was.
He was very matter-of-fact about things, which surprised me.
If anybody was unclear on the matter, George Patton was a pyscho.
An excellent soldier, but a pyscho all the same.
True, Patton had a genius for the attack and a relentless drive that he somehow imparted to his corps and division commanders, and eventually to the grunts, but he also had one of the best supplied and most technologically advanced armies in existence (fuel shortages in September-November of 1944 aside.)War as Patton knew it was a grand game: with parades, visits from dignitaries, cocktails at lunch, and only occasional shelling by the Germans.
I was inspired to read this after I saw George C Scott play Patton (for about the 3000th time).
I had wondered about many of the incidents that were included in the movie.
In fact, the movie did a remarkable job of being true to the book.
Some incidents were rearranged but the conversational, this-is-how-it-happened details were quite true to this book.
When I reread this (and I will reread this one), I plan to have a fairly detailed map of North Africa, Italy and France and Germany available for my own reference.
An amazing, clear account of the Northwestern European campaign of the the US III Army under the command of Gen. George S.
Patton, Jr. Any person with even a passing interest in the second world war should read this book as the mixture of memorable anecdotes and keen observations by Gen. Patton could easily cause one to highlight 90% of the book.
I rarely reread books, as if I find a particular subject interesting I will attempt to find another well-reviewed work and read it to appreciate a different perspective.
However, I believe this brief work might join The Killer Angels and Ender's Game and definite rereads.

This book was recommended to me by one of the numerous "without home" Key West locals. I picked it up because he was well spoken and provided an interesting review of Patton's exploits and narrative tone. At first, I was quite interested; however, my attention waned once military tactics and maneuvers replaced local assessment and pith. I gave up reading during the counter-offensive to The Bulge. Military history does not interest me. People and characters interest me. All war does is end characters and people.
General Patton's view of war "from the top". Interesting perspective/biography as the General holds nothing back - of course - and the original editing was handled by the General's wife, Beatrice.While I enjoyed the General's commentary, I could not help but think of other books I have read more recently published than this which have been written by the every day soldiers in Patton's army and the perspectives brought to light in those tales as opposed to this. A must read for anyone interested in the European theater of WWII as well those interested in the Generals career.
