https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53343.On_Writing_Well
Brilliant book!I definitely learned a lot of extremely useful advice from this book. I learned about the writing mistakes that I was making, and also how to enrich my own writing. Zinsser's tone and sense of humour made reading the book fun and interesting. This is the kind of book I would re-read every now and then for inspiration.
Lucky for me, I am a creature with little shame, so I’ll let my prose all hang out.After reading Pragmatism by the American philosopher William James, I’ve realized that some American qualities cut deep.
Whatever it is, it’s on full display here.What Zinsser is doing in this book is applying a capitalist sensibility to prose.
What bothers me is that Zinsser doesn’t seem realize how provincial are his ideas.What you will learn in this book is how to do a specific type of writing: journalistic nonfiction.
And Zinsser is a good writer, not a great one.
The advice given by the author is creative and his examples of good writing are informative and insightful.
And because good writing is always connected to the inner life and moral depth of the author, much of what he says applies to the ultimate source of the written word: the writer's attitude, her attention and integrity.
Don't let the "nonfiction" in the title deter you from reading this if you write fiction.
Read slowly, let the humor and common sense of the author seep into your writing blood so that it may flow out spontaneously in your words.
A straightforward guide to writing solid nonfiction.
William Zinsser offers sound advice, including how to eliminate clutter and ways to target your audience.
He spans several genres within nonfiction, ranging from sports writing to travel articles to memoir.
He incorporates several example passages from his favorite writers and from his own work.On Writing Well provided tangible, quality writing tips.
Zinsser has a somewhat eurocentric perspective and his writing selections often come from white men.
Still, I give this book four stars based on its content, even if its voice did not stand out.
Overall, recommended to those searching for a pragmatic, more technical book about writing nonfiction.
Part of my training at this job required reading a quintessential work on nonfiction writing, William Zinsser's "On Writing Well" (30th Anniversary edition).
I was warned that it's a slow burn--perhaps the opposite of the other book I've read on the writing process, Anne Lamott's "Bird by Bird." Zinsser's isn't littered with quirky anecdotes about his son's parasailing adventures or Buddhist friends or dreadlocks (only said with fondness, Annie).
What Zinsser's book offered instead was practical and precise guidance on how to make the English language sing in your nonfiction writing.
Most of all, I wish Zinsser followed his own advice - simplify, and trust your material (don't feel the need to explain almost every single principle; we get it).
The book, however, offered sound advice which I was lucky to dig out from the rest of the nonsense:"Be yourself.""Forget the competition and go at your own pace.""Your only contest is with yourself.""Never let anything go out into the world that you don’t understand.""Never forget where you left your reader in the previous paragraph and what they want to know next.""Your best credential is yourself.""Decide what you want to do.
This book may have a few valuable suggestions throughout, but it is difficult to reap Zinsser's lessons through his sexism and eurocentrism.
His use of language is definitely presenting his personae (something Zinsser encourages every writer to do), unfortunately his personae is a bourgeois anglophile.
Like I said, this book MAY have a few valuable suggestions, but there was nothing in it that I had not heard before and thus could probably find somewhere else where I would not have to endure Zinsser's sexist and eurocentric "humor".
Though, at first, Zinsser’s advice may seem anal–retentive and persnickety, it is great for keeping your work focused and making your sentences sharper.
Zinsser provides a hand-edited page of his own On Writing Well manuscript as an example of how to cut down on useless words, and it is truly amazing to see how much even an expert writer like him can remove from his work without its losing any meaning or artistic merit.
Reading Zinsser’s book is pretty discouraging in that it focuses mostly on the aspects of writing that people find most boring, however important they may be.
One of the oldest ways to master a craft is through imitation and writing well is no different.
Zinsser's book stands alongside Strunk & White's "Elements of Style" as one of the best guides on how to write clearly and effectively.
The book's tone and style is much like a series of lectures from a professor who projects a sense of knowledge, warmth, and passion.Zinsser illustrates many of his points through the use of personal anecdotes and examples culled from writers of different disciplines.
They all point to two of writing's main sources of inspiration: people and places.
A must read for those whose works relate to writing: students, teachers, businessmen, reporters, and of course, writers. Very useful tips along with very witty style. And above all, a man with high passion, virtue and responsibility with his job.
Writing a sufficiently well-written review for a well-written book about how to write well is a lot to write well.So I'll write it well later.
In my opinion this book, compared to Elements of Style, is like being transported to an entirely different world in itself.
I still love you.) slapping a ruler against the board, directing you what verbs to use and which tenses sound best, what constitutes as good language compared to language that is gaudy and overrated, only putting the ruler down by the last few minutes of class to speak calmly with you; if White and Strunk truly taught that way, then Zinsser's style is simple.
Not that Strunk and White weren't already amazing teachers--Elements of Style is a brilliant guide.
Một trong những quyển sách về Viết lách hay nhất mình từng đọc.
Chính vì vậy mà mình đánh giá 4 sao thôi.On Writing Well là quyển sách không phải chỉ đọc một lần, mà đọc xong đặt lên kệ, rồi thi thoảng lại lấy xuống đọc lại và nghiền ngẫm tiếp.
Đặt con chữ vào nhau, và thăng hoa, rỉ máu.Những quyển sách về chủ đề Viết lách mà mình đã đọc và yêu thích nhất: - On Writing Well, William Zinsser- On Writing, Stephen King- Letters to A Young Poet, Rainer Maria Rilke
Really great practical advice on writing--be clear, be truthful, and don't get cocky. I should re-read this one again and again
In many ways, it's better than Strunk and White, which tends to focus on grammar and the actual mechanics of writing as opposed to how a writer should think and approach things.
This is a book about the craft of writing and every writer would do well to read it periodically.
I never fail to find new insights or discover new ways to approach the problems of writing.It seems to me that writers who don't read and study this book along with a few others (The Elements of Style, On Writing, among others) are really just playing at being a writer.
This book is written "well" by a man who knows how to "Write Well." It is by no means a compliment to tell Zinser that anybody can write and we all can take up writing on the side.
Therefore, to write is always to rewrite over and over and once again we rewrite what we have written.
I liked the fact that Zinser would give examples of his own writing (see pages 9 and 10) and how he would show us how what written in the first eidition of On Writing Well had already been rewritten and retyped four or five times.
Книга 5 из 52 #однакнигавнеделю Я увидел рецензию на книгу, кажется, у Дениса Довгополого и сразу ее купил в электронной версии для Kindle и в бумажной, чтобы оставить в офисе.
Зинсер пишет просто и убедительно.
На своем примере и отрывках из текстов других авторов он показывает, как писать просто, без словесного мусора, как подбирать нужные слова и следить за логикой текста.
Не знаю, буду ли я при встрече благодарить Дениса за рекомендацию.
Простой пост или короткий текст теперь я пишу вдвое дольше, переставляя местами слова и отслеживая ритм.
Пожалуй, в офис закажу еще одну бумажную книгу в офис, а этот экземпляр пускай постоит у меня на полке.
Aside from his advice about usage—which made me deeply grateful for the more rigorously empirical and linguistically accurate advice of Steven Pinker’s *Style*—this book was a delight.
The advice was sage, drawing as it did from a multi-decade depth and breadth of experience both in writing and in teaching writing.
The excerpts singled out for praise and analysis were excellent, paragons of prose.
I will return to this book.
Every writer at Faithlife should read this book (and Pinker’s).
A tiny bit of the advice (and most of Zinsser's own excerpts, but not his expository prose) was dated.
This book introduced me to helpful concepts in a clear, concise manner, which was exactly what I expected.
I didn’t expect something riveting—if that’s what you want, look elsewhere.
Still, despite its lack of excitement, the book was definitely engaging.
It kept my attention through fairly long chapters, even chapters about topics I have no interest in.
I’d say this book is a practical time investment.
The downside is that unfortunately the book isn’t always as clean it should be; also, I disagree with this author’s worldview.
Hence three stars.
I’d give my clean, edited edition a solid four stars.
With Steve's review, I was reminded that I had read this years ago and it's in my "book closet" where I have all my writing reference books. When did I read it? Well, I would have to think back and I can figure it out but it will take a while and I would rather be reading than go down that particular "memory lane." Five stars indicates what I thought of this book and glad to know that it's contents are still valid today.
This distinction was earned by Zinsser’s incomparable usefulness to the Writer that Would Be. Many “accomplished authors” have assumed the task of sharpening our nibs, and showed themselves little more than grammarians, or seized the chance to flaunt their cloying style and terribly terrific wit—without saying anything about the actual process of writing.
All your clear and pleasing sentences will fall apart if you don’t keep remembering that writing is linear and sequential, that logic is the glue that holds it together, that tension must be maintained from one sentence to the next and from one paragraph to the next and from one section to the next, and that narrative—good old-fashioned storytelling—is what should pull your readers along without them noticing the tug.
What can I say about Zinsser that hasn't already been said? I read my first version of this book in the eighties as a side-text for a university comp class. And this is the third edition I've read. The core material stays the same, but this edition includes writing clear, concise prose for electronic media and meetings in addition to the paper-writing skills I focused on at 18. Five stars. A classic. Plus.
I first read On Writing Well years ago when I was assigned to co-teach a writing course for Duke University’s Talent Identification Program (TIP) the summer of 2000.
It was the best book I ever read in my lifetime, and I made sure I purchased the new edition once it was published.
As Zinsser clearly and magnificently tells us, “Good writing has an aliveness that keeps the reader reading from one paragraph to the next, ant it’s not a question of gimmicks to “personalize” the author.
On Writing Well is a must read for all who love to write!Zinsser, William.
Stephen King's "On Writing" is my favorite on the subject, but Zinsser might be even more useful. A classic for good reason.
I once told a friend that "I try to write lightly and cleanly, expressing the things I want to say in few and pastel-colored words, but I do try to move the reader as well, and add in little things that make it come alive." William Zinsser's On Writing Well was a healthy dose of affirmation and encouragement in this regards; the first writing book I've ever finished and could recommend.
But to get the meat of the writing instruction you don't have to read these sections, so feel free to skim.My favorite point in Zinsser's book is the confidence he encourages writers to have.
I got some very useful tips from this book for improving my writing skills. I enjoyed the first half of the book more than the second - it contained more advice that I could put into practice. The second half made me a harsher critic of all nonfictional pieces that I'll read.
Not only because it’s full of good advice about the craft of writing, but also because of what it reveals about the pleasures of reading books that have been written by writers who know what they’re doing.
. .and if, having found the scalawag and the scapegrace, you want to know how they differ, then go to the dictionary.” Zinsser reminds us that it is a gift to be literate because of the pleasure to be found both in writing as well as reading.
Её автор, Уильям Зинсер, — успешный американский писатель нон-фикшн и журналист с почти семидесятилетним стажем.Если бы мне нужно было рассказать о книге в одном предложении, я бы сказала, что это интересно и доступно написанное руководство, повествующее о том, как писать интересно и доступно.Две первые части книги будут полезны всем, кому приходится что-то писать.
Или, как найти свой уникальный «голос», по которому вас всегда будут узнавать.Оставшаяся третья часть книги — это настоящий набор уроков по написанию текстов на все случаи жизни: о себе и других людях, о путешествиях, о научных открытиях и изобретениях, об искусстве и спорте.
The rest of the book - that is, 70% - is uneven and can be skipped without missing out on anything important.The only chapters I found worth reading are those on "Science and Technology," "Business Writing," and "Writing About Arts," all of which are in Part III.
Other than these, none of the chapters say anything that hasn't been said already and can be skimmed or skipped, according to your interest in the particular subject of each chapter.One nugget of advice I found extremely helpful and would like to share is this: "Forget the competition and go at your own pace.
Everyone who has to write for their job should read this book.
Even if that writing I just emails, some memos and an occasional formal letter.
I am the perfect target for this book, since I tend to be include far too much detail in my writing and as a result an email that should be 3 paragraphs becomes a bloated 10 paragraphs -- and often I am sure I lose my readers.
Though there is much more I could say about this book, I will take its lesson and end my review here.
