https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1363590.The_Mystery_of_the_Invisible_Thief
Now this was the real thing―a “proper” complicated mystery, plenty of food, disguises galore, and a battle of wits with Mr Goon but no unnecessary baiting or tricks.
Meanwhile Goon comes back and gets on the case.
So begins a battle of wits against the findouters and a battle of disguises against Fatty, both Goon and Fatty using disguises to follow up on clues and solve the mystery.
But yet again, it is the findouters who come out victorious at the end but not before the wily burglar gets the better of them even managing to rob Fatty himself.This was a really enjoyable instalment in the series.
Gostei do livro, embora fosse demasiado previsível, pois sabia quem era o ladrão quase desde o início da história. Se tivesse lido isto quando era mais nova, de certeza que me tinha cativado mais.
Didn't have this one among my old collection, so read it for the first time. Not bad at all, but I found the culprit far too easily. Maybe I'd have been more enthralled if I'd read it as a kid for the first time.
Vuelta a mis lecturas de adolescencia, Los Cinco Pesquisidores y el perro según la traductora C.
Peraire del Molino o los Cinco Indagadores según la también traductora María Dolores Raich Ullán lamentan que después de 4 semanas de vacaciones de verano todavía no ha aparecido el siempre ansiado misterio.
El Misterio aparece naturalmente y una vez las dotes de Fatty, líder natural del grupo, tras un acto inconsciente de otro de los niños del grupo, resuelve el caso.
Diría que para los avezados en el género sí.
Naturalmente el juicio de un adulto al releer las lecturas de su infancia y adolescencia esta desprovisto de cualquier rigor.
How about her book series for kids called The Five Found-Outers?My daughter my dtold me there was a book that she started reading but quit because it was kinda boring and because she didn’t understand some of it.I was really curious about this because she LOVES to read and even reads stuff that I know she doesn’t really like all that much just to be reading.
I suggested that my daughter give it another try and I explained some of the vocabulary and themes to her.She gave it another try and really liked the book and would like to find the other books in the series and read them too.
Enjoyed the feeling of nostalgia that hit once I started reading about The Five Find-Outers and Dog trying to solve a mystery! And not forgetting the grumpy Mr Goon.Read my review: http://www.booksloveme.com/2012/09/th...
Not as fantastic as the Famous Five. But I figured out the mystery first. :P
Buku ini kuambil secara acak dari koleksi Pasukan Mau Tahu ku. Ya, aku membaca ulang buku ini sembari berkelana ke masa kanak-kanak dulu. Ceritanya simple namun tetap berkesan. Aku lupa apa aku berhasil menebak pencuri silumannya ketika aku membaca buku ini pertama kalinya.Ketika membaca lagi buat yang kedua kali aku dengan mudah menebak siapa pencuri itu. Mungkin faktor kebanyakan baca buku misteri/detektif. Lagian ini kan buat anak-anak sebenarnya :DAnyway, aku selalu membayangkan ada versi film untuk The Famous Five dan The Find-Outer nya Enid Blyton. Bukunya kan berseri.. Nah kalau filmnya dibuat berseri atau sekuel kan seru juga tu.
This one was just too predictable. I knew from the start whom the thief was, and it was so annoying that it took the clever Fatty so long to find that out.But the Swedish copy of the book that I borrowed from the library was a treat to read because it was an old copy from a local school in 1958. Waterdamaged and all.
Enjoyable re-read of a classic Blyton on my Kindle :-)
it was very good and very very exciting and I loved it sooooo much!👍😺😻👩🏻
my favourite book of the series!
Then the 10-year-old suggested I re-read the Five Find-Outers series so his brother could love them too.And he does.The five children have the innate manners of English schoolchildren of the 1950s, with just enough mischief to keep them current.
My older son is still just as captivated by them as his brother, and 4 o'clock tea time has been revived as a tradition in our house just because it's what Pip, Bets, Daisy, Larry, Fatty and Buster the dog do in their summer house or at the bottom of the garden.Here's the thing about reading a book I love out loud to my kids: I enjoy it.
The story is the from the types of adventurous mysteries as it talks about the robberies that took place but strangely with clear clues.
The baker would go in houses wearing big shoes and gloves so the detectives would predict a huge man.
When the kids came to investigate, they asked about any exits, and there wasn't any except a small window, so they were puzzled for how a huge man would go out without being seen.
Moreover, that explains why he was called the invisible thief, but he was later caught after they found out about his sneaky clear clues which were oddly placed at the robberies.
This book is about the five finder outers (Fatty, Larry, Daisy, Bets, Pip and buster the dog) on the case about finding out who the thief is.
Fatty the leader and Mr Goon the town Policeman don't really get along well and they sometimes end up racing each other to find out who the thief is.
There has been two robberies so far and the only clues they have found is glove marks, foot prints and a X- shaped dent in the ground.
There is another robbery, but there are the same witnesses the bread delivery man, cleaner and the mailman, no-one saw the thief but only heard.
Amazing story.Amazing mystery....The five find outers have another mystery to solve when an invisibl
Ada tiga pencurian, pencurinya meninggalkan jejak yang sama.
Tapi tak ada saksi mata yang melihat pencurinya.Tragisnya, pencurian ketiga dilakukan di rumah Fatty!
Pencuri itu sudah mengirim surat ke Pak Goon, polisi desa yang menjadi musuh bebuyutan Fatty.
Pak Goon sudah memperingatkan ibu Fatty, namun pencurian tetap terjadi.
Siapakah yang mencuri?Buku ini asyik dibaca, lucu dan menghibur.
Sayang saya tak setuju dengan umpatan Fatty, ia mengejek Pak Goon "otak udang".
Di Indonesia, hal nii tentu saja sangat tidak sopan.Tapi salut untuk penerjemah buku ini, Bapak Agus Setiadi.
Seolah-olah buku ini ditulisa dalam bahasa Indonesia, bukanterjemahan bahasa Inggris.
I was never a huge fan of the Five Find-Outers, give me Secret Seven and Famous Five any day. Still this is an enjoyable tale and it killed a couple of hours this afternoon.That said, having now re-read six Enid Blyton books for the first time in 10 years this was the only one which I very quickly recalled the plot point - and in fact I recalled the villain as soon as he was introduced. I'm sure children will enjoy this book, but I would say its re-read value is low in comparison to other books by this author.
Some books you read as a child and have no recollection, this one I clearly recalled as I read it, nit the minute details, but the big picture and certainly how the bad guy did it. It is however interesting to read this through adult eyes and see the relationships in a different light, that Bets and Fatty relationship is certainly interesting isn't it? Also as an older reader I think you have more empathy for Good and less tolerance for the children. Anyway this was another mystery solved, and more Blyton fun to be had.
Another day, another mystery to solve with Enid Blyton. I think the Find Outers are growing on me, especially Fatty. He really is a toad of a boy, but still fun to read about. He sounds like a good friend, with plenty of faults to keep him grounded. I read this one pretty quickly, mainly while standing out and waiting for the bus. I'll have to see how many more in this series I have, and see about acquiring the others.
This is the best in the Five Find Outers series, in my opinion. There's a line somewhere Bets says "this seems a very grown up mystery" (or something to that effect) and it's true - this was a difficult mystery and the story is well told. All loose ends are tied up very neatly in the end and not to mention, we see Mr Good in THREE disguises. Lot of humour as well. This was the first one I read in the series and it has remained the best, after ALL this time.
The Mystery of the Invisible Thief by Enid Blyton had lots of funny moments as the Find-Outers were always one step ahead of Mr. Goon. The mystery was good with some fine sleuthing. As usual, the motivation of the perp was lacking unless that fact that the perp was working class is motivation enough. For Blyton, this is often too true.
Agent Goon volgt bijscholing en denkt niet alleen na maar gaat ook nog eens zelf vermommingen gebruiken. Dat leidt tot enkele grappige situaties. Opnieuw een mysterie waar niet echt vooruitgang wordt geboekt. Tot Pip een grap uithaalt die tot het juiste inzicht leidt. Leest vlot.
A slight improvement on recent entries in the series, although the Find-Outers yet again set off blindly on a whole load of false leads without actually bothering to think about the logistics of a solution that is obvious from the start!
The Five Find - Outers find a mystery about a robbery,, where the thief gets out without being seen, when they are bored. They give it up, and goes until the robber meddles with Fatty's shed. A brainwave strucks Fatty, when Pip plays a trick on them all, which solves the mystery.
This book is a real mystery. It also is really funny. I really enjoy reading this. Four thumbs up to Enid Blyton.
ss
Ihan samaa tasoa edelleenkin kuin muutkin sarjan kirjat.
69 - 2015
yoyo
