https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31098.Swapping_Lives
Swapping Lives is a standalone women's fiction novel written by author Jane Green.
I was very optimistic about this title when I read the book synopsis- who wouldn't want to swap lives with someone else for a while??- but unfortunately I was disappointed.
The second half was a little better (when the two women finally swapped lives) but it wasn't good enough to make up for the overall somewhat dull experience.
I wouldn't discourage fans of women's fiction from reading it though because I have read Jane Green before and absolutely loved it even though the overall goodreads ratings were pretty low.
Amber Winslow the American social climber, full time wife and mother and Vicky Townsley the single successful English girl leading a tough but hectic life as Features Director of a magazine.
The theme of the novel is as the title implys a Life Swap between these two women neither of whom is satisfied with her life.
I suppose I just kept hoping it might improve, but it didn't, in fact the ending was as much of a let down as the rest of the book.I have read three other titles by Jane Green of which I have no recollection at all, somehow I do not think I will be going out of my way to read any more of her novels.
I hated, hated, hated this book.
The character of Amber is the biggest Mary Sue I've ever read.
She's such a horrible person, always competing with her "friends", lying to her husband about spending, ignoring her kids, etc, but the author tells us numerous times that everyone just loves her and they understand that she's such a great person and that she really does love her kids.
I kept thinking the author was being sarcastic placing all the fake praise on Amber, but no, she really means it.
This book had so many inconsistencies and eye-rolling scenes that it was ridiculous.
I will for sure not read any more of this author's works.
I downright despised Amber and felt that Green's attempt to give her some depth and credibility by giving her a history in law was laughable.
Green obviously just tossed that in to fill a bit of Amber's vapidness but to have literally wrote nothing other than "she went to law school and became a lawyer for a few years" multiple times just doesn't cut it.
What a complete contradiction to everything we'd seen of Amber at that point.
Lightweight stories should still have at least a miniscule amount of character depth / growth and for god sakes a bit of mystery...
A brilliant story about two women who decide to 'swap lives' for a month. Vicky works for a fashion magazine in London and as part of a feature article, decides to swap lives with an American mother and social climber, Amber. Neither women are happy with their lives and think they need a change, and wonder if 'the grass is greener on the other side'. Some hilarious moments ensue and the story gave me a lot of laughs. Easy to identify with both women, and a really fun story. I thoroughly enjoyed this one!
I really enjoyed reading this book.
I was delighted to see the main topics tackled, especially as it's considered "chick lit", were not about attaining the perfect guy or finding the perfect "shag" or following some bumbling female who doesn't do her job properly but somehow finds true love and sucess suddenly, and predictibly, at the end of the book...
but rather about substantial and relevent stuff that we all deal with in our day to day lives: like what the most important things to have in your life in order to acheive true peace and happiness we all seem to be yearning for and addressing our every day snap judgements.
So, if this sounds good to you grab a copy and enjoy!
Yikes, this book was a total mess.
It was 3/4 back story!
The actual plot didn't start until disc 6, and it was a 10-disc audio book!
You got into every character's head and life story while two characters were in the middle of a conversation, making it incredibly confusing once the author jumped back into the present moment.
Usually, I don't mind that writing technique, but when you're doing it for every character, rather than the main, and jumping between them all, it feels bogged down and slow.
No humor either, which is disappointing, given Green's stellar work on "Mr. Maybe" and "Jemima J." This one was just...bad.
Vickie is the features director at Poise magazine in England and is living the life of an urban, single woman in her mid-thirties.
Maybe some wealthy people really are that clueless to how regular people live but Amber’s character grew up in a trailer park so I found it hard to believe in her case.One thing that irritated me about this book is the lack of editing of the American dialogue.
This book is written by an English woman and I would think someone would check the dialogue of the American characters to make sure it’s authentic.
Anyway, I read this ridiculous book cover to cover and I swear I've dumbened for it (nod to Lisa S).I'm not going to go into the story as it has been covered more than adequately by others but honestly this book felt like such a waste of my time and whoever's money paid for it that I feel compelled to rate it.In fairness the premise was OK.
By all accounts her other books are pretty readable and enjoyable (not that I'll read any of them now - I've been burned) but this one seems to have slipped through the cracks.
First of all, this book was terrible.
In defense of this terrible, terrible book, with the terrible cliche plot and the two dimensional characters and the sickly pink cover and the author photo that looks like a knock off Sarah Jessica Parker who never heard the 90s were over, I knew it was going to be a terrible book when I bought it for $2 (I overpaid) at the local library, but sometimes you get tired of reading big important books and decide to settle for something UNGODLY TERRIBLE.
Also the fact that she couldn't convincingly switch back and forth between a character who uses London slang and a woman from Connecticut basically tells you the writer is crap, if you somehow managed to overlook every single other red flag, which was all of it.
I'm going to give it just a bit longer and see if I get into it more, but when I avoid reading because I'm not that into a book, then I know that it's almost time to find something different to read.
I have a heap of other books from the library to read, so if I'm not 'taken' in the next chapter or so, I'll be giving up on this one!Well I've just read reviews from other readers, and I don't think I'll even bother trying to finish this one.
Another book to add to my 'started, but not finished' shelf!!
I have to say I really enjoyed this book. Who would not fantasize over living someone else's life? For a chick lit book, it was detailed with enough info about the different characters and what motivated them to want a change. I was glad I read it even after reading some not so nice reviews.Funny, heartfelt, and fairly true enough.
Ugh! A waste of my precious reading time. This book was given to me by a co-worker as it is one of her favorites. Note to self: politely decline next time she approaches with a book.
Ho trovato il libro eccessivamente pesante nonostante lo argomento.I pensieri della protagonista sono sempre gli stessi, fissata col trovare un marito a tutti i costi.
Sono dovuta arrivare al sesto capito per trovare qualcosa d’interessante che mi convincesse ad arrivare alla fine del libro che poi l'unica cosa che mi ha sorpreso veramente è stato un meleto!
La delusione totale è stata lo scambio tra le due protagoniste doveva durare un mese e invece hanno fatto quindici giorni, non so perché ma ho avuto la sensazione che la scrittrice non sapesse che altro scrivere per coprire le ultime due settimane, oltre che quei quindici giorni scritti sono stati rapidi e frettolosi.Secondo me, non vale la pena leggerlo, salvo che non piacciano parecchio gli stereotipi e le cose ridondanti.
Pretty sure I read this years ago.....
Easy read, chic lit style book
- debatable characterisation of american family- a few errors regarding names - intriguing plot, although fairly predictable - was expecting a bit more drama in regards to certain actions - depiction of Highfield was enticing and vivid - probably wouldnt read again
This was a great story with a very interesting idea. I loved what happened (mostly) but I thought it was a tad bit unbelievable at times. Still -- a solid Jane Green book!
I liked it.
I brought a huge stack of Jane Green books recently, mainly ones I have previously read but one wasn't available and was substituted for life swap.
I have fallen out of love a little bit with Jane Green.
However of course Vicky couldn't swap with a normal woman, who didn't have staff, etc, because I do feel like all Jane Green can write about is spoilt little rich girls.
I would love to see her write about a different character because she is so good at keeping you hooked throughout a story.I wouldn't recommend you go out and buy this.
I've not read any of her stuff before, and after this, which i haven't even finished yet, am not sure whether I will.It's not badly written, but there are just glaring inconsistencies in the plot and the character that just don't ring true at all!We're led to believe the swappers are to wear each other's clothes.
Er, surely she should have been wearing Amber's swimsuits too?
The character of Vicky just has far too many inconsistencies for my liking!I persevered as I always do, and finally finished this book.
I did like it, and I breezed through it like all the other chick-lit books I ever read.
I really like Jane Green, and I like her style.
This book narrates a little differently, and I enjoyed that.
It felt almost like we were watching things unfold, it was a little different than I'm used to and a pleasant change.One thing really annoyed me: TWO characters named Deborah?
UGH.Otherwise, the premise was actually believable - a mid-30s single London magazine editor swaps lives with a mid-30s American rich housewife to see if the grass is actually greener.
This is all for an article in the magazine..
Another job well done, Jane Green!!!
The actual "swap" (the supposed plot of the book) takes place very far in, and only for an extremely short amount of time/pages.
Show, don't tell!For most of the book, Ms. Green employs odd time jumps, the character Vicky might be sitting at the breakfast table, then it jumps back to the night before, then an hour before, then back to the table, with no cues to help piece together the timing.
It very much felt like Ms Green was trying to round out the characters, but it didn't work, it just threw me out of the story to have the omniscient third person give me long winded explanations.
OK, so once I was past all that and into the actual meat and potatoes of the story, everything was fine and I enjoyed this easy read.
Sometimes I felt like I was reading the book version of the movie The Holiday (which was fine with me because who doesn't like visualizing Jude Law?).
I didn't regret reading it if that is what you are thinking.
I think if some of the repetitive parts were cut and the stuff about what they did each day was gone then the story would have had better flow.
So I wanted a chick book late this summer — just an easy little read for the lazy days on the boat — so I picked up Switching Lives by Jane Green off the bargain rack at Borders.
Yes. Funny in a predicatable, poorly written book for adults?
Um, not so much.Oh, and least I fail to mention, this book was so poorly written that what should have been a quick little read got drawn out over three months because of my utter lack of engagement with and caring for the characters!
By comparing mid-30's women, one who is single and career successful, the other married with kids and queen bee in her suburb, swapping lives helps them appreciate themselves and their own lives better, and helps them figure out what they really want in life.
In reading this book, it is something I feel every woman does, starting in their mid-20s.
We start thinking about the lives we are leading, where it is heading and unfortunately compare ourselves and where we are on our journey with others.
This book really examines those thought processes and how we can learn to appreciate what we have and who we are.
Si comparamos esta novela con Hechizada, la diferencia es MUY grande, y admito que esta novela es menos deprimente.
Esta novela recrea el show televisivo en el que dos mujeres intercambian sus vidas, el problema viene en que una de ellas es soltera y la otra esta casada y tiene varios hijos y con este experimento la soltera casi le roba el marido a la casada.El chick lit me resulta muy aburrido y la trama de esta novela, aunque era en cierto modo novedosa, no me gustó porque odie la actitud y los actos de sus personajes.
This was a good book, but after the initial swap things started to drag a little. There were some valuable lessons to be learned regarding the old saying about grass being greener on the other side. Basically the book reiterates the importance of being fully content with your life at that moment in order for more things to come.
I was a little disappointed in this, having just completed her other book, didn't enjoy the story or the characters and it was too lengthy and verbose. I noticed that in 'Second Chance' as well but I was more willing to forgive in that case.
I just finished this book and it was okay. I could relate to the "mom" in some ways. I think it is true that we tend to think life is always better for someone else, but the reality is that no matter how much money, talent,etc. someone has, they still have difficulties.
