https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/372385.Back_Spin
Myron didn't quite do it for me this time round, folks.
A one liner that says it all 'One man's opinion.' Suave, I think?
He just says it how it is, doesn't he.
I liked another little conversation he had with a messy teen, a girl that was headed for trouble.
She comments on wanting to look as good as Esperenza and he tells her she should aspire to be like her.
I liked that.
We also get a lot more back story on the elusive Win. Looking forward to seeing more of the Cool Myron in number 5.
Another quality Myron Bolitar mystery! Twisty and turny throughout. Lots of humor, suspense, and snarky dialogue. It always amazes me how a sport agent can keep getting involved in these crazy scenarios (the suspension of disbelief is strong here) - but, as unbelievable as it would seem, Coben always keeps it fresh and interesting.Golf is the sport of focus in this one, and Coben has himself an Eagle (if not a hole-in-one)!
My very first Harlen Coben book and I enjoyed it very much. It appears I have started at number four in a series but that did not seem to matter as the story was stand alone. I liked the main character very much and smiled often at his attempts at humour. This particular book was not the most exciting mystery I have read but is was okay and I am keen to read more of this author's work. I know it comes highly recommended by many people whose opinions I trust:)
About halfway through the book we learn more about Win's past and childhood which I thought was interesting, and it explains his dark, warped sense of humor, why he's very protective of Myron and is extremely violent to those he believes is a threat.Funny thing is one of the subplots of this story involves Golf, and I hate Golf, hate it with a passion, (no offense to those who do like it, HAHA)!
But it doesn't interfere with the rest of the story even in the slightest.Another great edge-of-your-seat mystery/thriller by one of the best!
Published way back  in 1997,  if Back  Spin was read today by someone born in that decade, that person might not understand some of Myron Bolitar's wit or his references to TV shows popular back then.
The material is definitely dated, but I didn't mind too much because I'm dated too!The kidnapping case Myron is asked to work on took one turn after another, eventually solved by none other, but not until every character in the book was looked at as suspects.
You forget completely about some characters/suspects, and then they're back again at the top of the list.
Com o retorno à ribalta do marido de Linda, o golfista profissional Jack Coldren, volta a participar no US Open, um dos maiores torneios mundiais de golfe, um dos quatro “Majors”, no magnífico campo de golfe “Merion Golf Club”, na proximidade de Filadélfia, os fantasmas do passado regressam.Harlan Coben retrata admiravelmente o “cenário” desportivo do golfe de competição profissional, os seus aspectos negativos associados a uma intensa e desenfreada rivalidade, onde os prémios e os valores monetários associados são altíssimos, numa atmosfera de riqueza e discriminação social e económica.
”Tacada Mortal” é uma excelente leitura, sobre o submundo do golfe e das “tacadas” menos leais num emocionante thriller assinado por Harlan Coben.“Merion Golf Club”
I love all Harlen Coben novels!!!
This one was no exception!
Fast paced, all the familiar characters you love, and lots of drama, and twist and turns.
For some reason this book must have fallen through the cracks for me because I thought I had read all of his novels, but I have no memory of having read this one.
If you keep up with his books you will already know the latest development with the characters, but it was a good refresher of what went down in their personal relationships in the past.
Never miss a Harlen Coben novel!!
Secretly, and just like Win's mother Cissy, Esme blames Jack Coldren for ruining her family, and it is her intension to sabotage Jack's second attempt at winning the U.S. Open.Then, the author throws a huge and totally unnecessary red herring/monkey wrench into his story.
This would please Esme as it would forever ruin Jack Coldren for good, AND it would help her big star client Tad Crispin win the U.S. Open, and put her company Zoom on the map for all things golf.
And what was the payoff, some vague story about Jack Coldren being directly or indirectly responsible for ruining Win's family?
her zamanki gibi süperdi,Coben'in en sevdiğim serisi zaten :) Sherlock-Watson sevenler kesinlikle bayılacaklar Myrion-Win ikilisine.Myrion'un kafa sesleri çok eğlendiriyor beni :D Martı sırayla yayınlasaydı iyiydi ama olsun,böylesi de zevkli :D Kitapta beni üzen tek şey Jess-Myrion ilişkisinin gidişatıydı,lanet olsun :(
I think Harlan Coben should stick with the more serious side of murder mystery and leave the crazy/witty/caper type to authors more along the line of Janet Evanovitch.
Plus- and I should have known this- but a mystery about GOLFERS?!
The biggest mystery surrounding golf is why anyone would play it...
I have two more of his 'sports' mysteries already in the 'on deck' circle (notice my clever use of sports lingo?) so I'll finish them but I don't imagine I'll miss them when they're gone.http://bibliofilesbookrating.blogspot...
Two-haiku review:Golfers' son kidnappedNo cops, but Myron will helpIs it real or staged?Lots of theoriesAll wrapped up neatly at endVery good mystery
Some really awkward moves all through the middle. Endless pages of plot-dump. Less snappy dialogue. Are the wheels falling off? The sports agent detective thing is good, and Win could have been good, but the plot got in the way.
Always a good read.
The Myron Bolitar novels are not only full of clever plot twists and mysterious secrets (usually from someone's deep dark past)..
from almost any source?Honestly, Coben manages to slide all of this together into a nail-biting mystery.
The story is fill of the type of twists and turns we have come to expect from Coben's writing-- and Coben drops the clues right in front of the reader, very carefully..
just like a little bread trail in the Hansel and Gretel story.
The clues are there because Coben plays fair with the reader..
Coben remains one of my favorite mystery writers..
A former friend (and relative through marriage) of Win's is in contention for the U.S. Open.
And just when it looks like he's a shoe-in for this Open, his son is kidnapped.
Win's mother is dying and Win has not spoken to her in years.
He refuses to have anything to do with the missing boy case because it involves his mother's family.
Despite the fact that Win is already a very dynamic character, Coben throws in some new layers to further develop his character.
The 4th book in the Myron Bolitar series by Harlan Coben. I am a big fan of Harlan Coben and this series in particular and enjoy his fast paced novels that have more than a touch of humour. This book was no exception and was a delight to read. He brings the characters to life and I have pictures of them in my head while I am reading the novels. Great plots and so well paced.
Back Spin is the fourth novel in Mr. Coben's series of the cocky crime solver and sports agent, Myron Bolitar.
Back Spin features the usual cast of Myron Bolitar, the explosive Windsor Lockwood Home III and the trite Esperanza.What’s unique about this installment is that you won’t get to see Win getting involved at all (by choice) while the plot IS all about Win. You will miss the Windsor Lockwood III “explosions” in this book for sure though he is there in the story.
With every installment, the author showcases a new side to the deep friendship of Myron, Win and Esperenza.
Not my favourite Myron Bolitar novel.
Myron and Win weren't working together on the case, so I think to me it lost a bit of that magic.
Myron is at the US Open, hoping to score some clients.
One of the leaders of the tournament has had their son kidnapped and is hoping that Myron can get his son back without letting the police know.
I felt that the novel didn't get really good until the last 50 pages or so.
Up until that point, there was a lot of Myron just hanging out at different places hoping to catch a lucky break.
There's a large cast of supporting characters for a book of this genre, and by the end all of them figure into the crime in one way or another.
Granted, I'm only three books in, but it seems that Bolitar and Coben agree on the same point: For the good of the series, or for Bolitar (which is saying the same thing), a little less of Win may be more.
In fact, Coben's characters go out of their way--even more than Parker's did, which is saying something--to point out cliches and to downplay them.
Myron agrees to help them and, as usual, gets embroiled in the middle of a plethera of suspects, lies and twists.There were any number of suspects that could have been involved in this case and after awhile, I just stopped trying to guess and sat back and enjoyed the story.
The case involved his family and we learned a lot more about him and what helped shaped who he is today.By the end of the story, there were so many twists and revelations my head was spinning so I guess the book was aptly named.
Myron is a sports rep who doubles as a detective, usually having to drag one of clients out of trouble In this case, Myron investigates the kidnapping of Chad Jack (the “Choker”) and Linda Coldran’s son.
Here “he was writing about an activity [golf] he enjoys as much as sticking his tongue in a fan.” Myron’s friends and associates are characters in their own right: His assistant Esperanza, (who often steals the scenes) had a “glare that construction crews would have liked to hire to break up rock formations.”Listened to this on audio read by a favorite reader: Jonathan Marosz Lots of fun.
Not the best Myron Bolitar book - they just aren't the same without Win going psycho - but you're always in for a good time with Coben and Bolitar.For those who don't know the series, this is number four of ten (Sounds like a Borg designation...).
He also does some private investigating on the side with his kick-ass psycho friend Win. Myron wisecracks his way through danger and trouble like a classic 1940s hardboiled detective, and it's a lot of fun.If you haven't checked out the series, give it a whirl for a not too heavy thriller.
Not a bad plot and fairly good character development, but I just couldn't get past all the dated references. The thought of a golfer being paid for the logo on his hat as novel? When was this written, 1970? An Internet search description that might be informative for anyone older than 70. And dialogue attributed to teenage girls that is so over the top it makes you cringe. Sorry, but too many distractions to give this more than two stars.
Hm, bây giờ mình mới để ý, phần Acknowledgments nguyên văn thế này:  [Tên những người Harlan Coben đã tìm đến để tham khảo] Như mọi khi, những lỗi sai trong thực tế hay gì đi chăng nữa đều thuộc về bọn họ. Đừng đổ lỗi cho tác giả. Myron và tôi đã cố hết sức rồi. Xin lỗi chứ, cháu thay mặt Win và Esperanza khinh bỉ hai người :))Vẫn như mọi khi, 3 sao cho quyển sách, 1 sao cho Win và 0.5 sao cho tác giả :))
I enjoyed this book- so much more than I enjoy the game of golf.
God, I love these books!
And funny.
Hilariously funny.
I read this in swedish, and the translation is impeccable, but I still believe they are even funnier in english, which is saying something.The things I have issues with, regarding this book; Golf (God, I hate golf!) and the lack of Win. Yes, there's a good reason for his "absence" but it's still not satisfactory.
Myron's scathing remarks regarding this "sport" that so many people unfathomably enjoy makes the book a lot more tolerable.
Good job waving the culprit right in my face.
A quick read on an unplanned road trip.
I do enjoy the character dynamics and unique series storyline: basically a former athlete turned sports agent who moonlights as a faux criminal investigator.
Personally I don’t know why I continue to read whodunnits when I can never remember the boatload of characters (a.k.a. suspects) available.
It’s the old Agatha Christie formula necessary for a game of Clue.
I think this is either my second or third read in the series but it’s the first one in which I may need someone to actually explain that last chapter to me...
Normally, I make it a rule not to read two books by the same author back-to-back.
Prior to reading this installment (#4) in the Myron Bolitar series, I'd read #5.
Even though the novels in the Bolitar series stand alone, this novel filled in some of Myron/Win/Esperanza personal background details.
As for the 'main' story, I got to the end and thought, "Huh?
Dude, I don't get it." I followed the threads; but taken as a whole, it was convoluted.
I was starting to feel like I had some sort of comprehension disorder, until I read Paul Lyons' review (it has spoilers)….YES!!!
Bizarre, entertaining, and very enjoyable.
This time Myron has to solve this one without assistance from his friend, Win. Mr.
Coben takes you through many intricate scenarios before bringing the story into focus and all the while keeping the reader's attention and wondering who did it.
This story deals with kidnapping, secrets, dysfunctional family members and the mob.
It's a fine line the author balances on; humor/murder & satire/drama, and he does a good job in description, characters, locations, and plot.
This story goes in several directions and will stir you in one direction and push you the opposite way.
Although I didn't love this one as much as number 3 in the series, it was still a good, fun mystery.
This series requires the reader to suspend their disbelief and go for the ride, but somehow Coben makes that easy.
The premise is a fun one.
I like that Myron is a sports agent and is embroiled in mysteries by clients and prospective clients, even though this is one of the things that makes the stories unbelievable it is also part of what makes the series unique and fun to read.
