https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6613.Four_Blondes
The back of the book claims, "She chronicles the lives of four beautiful women [...] as they face turning points in which each must choose between her passions." I don't know what book they read to make that blurb, but what I read was a heap of self-absorbed drivel that relied heavily on stereotypes.
Everyone is too fat and too thin all at once and there is just constant attention brought to how women look in these stories.
This book doesn't feel like it has a point.
Beautiful women are stupid because they don't have to try.) She is five-seven and weighs 125 pounds.
This has to be one of the worst books that I've ever read in my life.
I only kept reading it in the ridiculous (and futile) hope that it surely would have to get better at some point.
Surely the women who came up with the idea for Sex in the City couldn't possibly suck THAT bad as an author.Well as it turns out, she can.
Don't waste your time or anyone else's with this book.
It's about 4 stupid women who make ridiculous choices and live lives consumed by selfishness and boredom.
I wouldn't even let my dog read this book.
I'm not quite sure what the author was going for with this one.
This was published after her previous book, Sex and the City and maybe she was hoping to catch lightning in a bottle twice.
This book is missing heart, substance, and whatever else that gives you a compelling urge to flip the pages to find out more.
To be honest, if I didn't have an annoying habit of having to finish books I paid for even when in this case I picked it up for a dollar at a thrift store, I wouldn't have bothered reading til the end.
Bushnell is one of the worse writers of all time. I hope she wakes up every morning and thanks whichever god she believes in because however she got Sex in the City published is supernatural. That someone saw past her schlocky prose to an award-winning television series is beyond me. Four Blondes is a trite story about four women you couldn't care about if they were on fire on the midtown bus. Their stories, remarkably, are less interesting. Read this book only if you are being threatened with death. Or worse.
Terrible. I finally followed the 50 page rule, where if it's not good by the first 50 pages, dump it. This was the worst book I have ever attempted. I picked it up at a garage sale for a quarter because I enjoy "chick-lit", and Sex and The City was a hit show, I thought the author would at least have something worthwhile. Big mistake! The storyline and characters were so unrealistic, fake, and BORING! Don't bother.
" ----Liz TaylorCandace Bushnell, an international best-selling author, has penned a sassy tale of four blond women from Manhattan, in her book, Four Blondes that narrates the tale of four different women, independent and strong-willed, who pave their way in the jungle called life by standing strong along with the men, fashion, age, needs and fame and to claim fame, they would do anything for it.Synopsis: Four Blondes charts the romantic intrigues, liaisons, betrayals and victories of four modern women: a beautiful B-list model scams rent-free summerhouses in the Hamptons from her lovers until she discovers she can get a man but can't get what she wants; a high-powered magazine columnist's floundering marriage to a literary journalist is thrown into crisis when her husband's career fails to live up to her expectations; a 'Cinderella' records her descent into paranoia in her journal as she realizes she wants anybody's life except her own; an artist and an ageing 'It girl' - who fears that her time for finding a man has run out - travels to London in search of the kind of love and devotion she can't find in Manhattan.
This book is not good.
It is divided into four sections about four women with barely any brains and their stories never connect.
At first I felt like I was missing some big secret underlying message about society while I was reading it, but then I thought that it was just about four stupid rich women.
The writing style of the second section almost made me quit reading.
Sentence length averages 6 words and every other sentence is in parentheses which I think was meant for humor but ended up being the final straw.
You can read this book in approximately 3 hours and be none the wiser.
And now we have a real dilemma: how do you honestly review a book that's so bad that you didn't real
page 166: He's sitting in the living room in a red-and-white-striped shirt, suspenders still looped over his shoulders, drinking a beer with his buddies from the network whose names I still can't be bothered to remember, when I come down the stairs, wearing a white brocade dress with grey mink trim and long grey gloves. My mother is married to a fishmonger. My father is gay and lives in Paris. I am going to the ballet.
Admittedly, this book has little redeeming social value, beyond being humorous. And that said, it's probably only entertaining to readers who recognize that "it's funny because it's true" - even without being in the social circles of people like these characters, you would need to realize that they exist. If you must respect the protagonist in order to enjoy a book, then don't pick up this one. Leave it for those who will laugh out loud in recognition of someone they know.
I purposefully didn't rate this book, because it's the worst book I have EVER read. I only finished it on principle. Awful, awful, awful. In fact, when I go to Barnes & Noble, I actually consider placing a note on the shelf that holds this book, warning people!
Okay this book is disgusting - but i was trying to get a feel for the popularity of Candace Bushnell (of sex in the city fame)without watching sex in the city.
High "Ick" factor.
As in the normalization of deviant sex ick.However, i happened to be reading Ibsen's A Doll's House at the same time and it made a fascinating comparative study re: women's roles and what women have done with the freedoms they've fought for.
Hopefully fewer women than Candace Bushnell would have us believe...So, we now have the right to eat macaroons as we please, and women from every social strata can prostitute themselves freely - yipee!You've come a long way baby!
The quintessential Carrie candor was a creation of the show’s writers alone; if you read Bushnell’s newspaper columns from which the show is derived (there is an archive of all of them somewhere on the Internet), you will notice that her writing is nothing like the show’s script.Now, if we see Four Blondes as Four Blondes and nothing else, it is clearly a winner.
The book tells the stories of four New York blondes- a former model (Janie Wilcox) who dates a new boyfriend every summer to sponsor her Hamptons vacation, an editor (Winnie) who, a princess (Cecelia) and a journalist.
En suostu antamaan tälle kirjalle yhtään tähteä, sillä a) hukkasin elämästäni kallisarvoisia tunteja lukiessani tätä, b) kirjoitustyyli on hirveä, c) naiskuva kirjassa on hirveä ja d) tämä on ehkä ällöttävin, paskin, huonoin, surkein ja turhin kirja ikinä!
Don't judge...its awesome. Very well written and easy to read :) Very different from the show.
After absolutely hating Sex and the City, I was quite sceptic about this novel.
Candice actually created brand new characters that felt very much alike.
This book seemed up to a good start, but by the time I finished it, I already felt rather tired of it.
It might have been a good book.
The problem is that Candice still doesn't know how to write.
Novel is something that is beyond her writing range.
Maybe a short story would be more up her alley....or would it?
Short stories are not as easy as they might seem.
You see this book was pretty shallow as well.
I hated the way it was written...The second story I could not stand all the parentheses and the third story the intitials bothered me also...I felt that the characters kind of sucked and you really could care less about them.
I also did not like how the third story mentioned some characters from the first and the second but they were not really intertwined or related...it was kind of just thrown in.
I usually enjoy stories where the characters are linked and that would have redeemed this book just a little but the way she did it really just kind of annoyed me more than anything...all-in-all...I did not like this book and would not recommend it to anyone...ever
The main reason I bought it was because it was written by the author of Sex and the City and I thought it was going to be interesting or at least follow characters that were similar to the ones in the TV series but I was dead wrong.
I kept reading only hoping (assuming) that at some point it may get interesting.
It’s NOT a novel like I expected, its set up as short stories (none of which end up being connected) that follow 4 woman who are basically complaining the whole time about the bad choices they made in their lives.
Of all the bad books I have read, this is pobably the one that I can say was the worst. I actually threw it across the room after reading it because I was so disgusted. Can't even give it a star.
Bushnell really shows how "educated" white women from schools like Barnard and Wellesley sneer at minorities while aping their victim rhetoric.
(One part where the "smart" heroine is shocked because on AMAZON anyone can trash a book by an "important" feminist author left me smiling for days.)On the other hand, as irreverent and clear-sighted as Candace Bushnell can be about important things, there's also a certain amount of silliness and snobbery that seems to come directly from the author, not the characters.
When she wants to be, Candace Bushnell can be one smart cookie.
This book took me two years to finish! I wish for the life of me I could have one positive remark on anything but truthfully this book is horrendous. I have never seen a cast that is so self-absorbed, manipulative, and downright one dimensional before in my life! There's only one character that comes to mind who might rival their superficiality. Its sad when Gaston is considered a well-rounded character compared to these bitches. Not only are they selfish they are a downright disgusting portraya
I have never seen a cast that is so self-absorbed, manipulative, and downright one dimensional before in my life!
In Bushnell's mind, all blonde haired women are either beautiful or whorish.
Actually since I've used Gaston, then I might as well use the most perfect example of what these characters remind me of-
Only one of the characters was interesting to read and didn't make me want to rip my hair out.
This book looks like it was written by a high school student who wanted to bash the blonde girls who picked on her.
Don't pick up this book!!
The protagonists of these stories are connected not only by their blonde hair but also by their isolation and desire for change.
Some of her characters exist in more than one of the stories.
Bushnell does this to show that everyone, both in her stories and in the real wold, is connected in some way.
These stories could in fact be real.
Bushnell uses these stories to give readers an inside look at the lives of the wealthy and the elite.
I must add that these stories do describe vulgar acts in vulgar language, but everything Bushnell writes is necessary.
In her first book since the cultural phenomenon Sex and the City, Candace Bushnell triumphantly returned with the national best-seller Four Blondes, which The New York Times says "chronicles the glittering lives of semicelebrities, social aspirants, and moneyed folk ...WTF did I just read?
Candace Bushnell, I know Manhattan has some vain and money/career driven people living there but please, let's not scare anyone away.
I feel like I should be ashamed to live and love NYC.
Yes, we are the city that loves money, hot careers, and hard to get into restaurants but we do have a heart.
I was hard in to the TV series Sex and the City and when I hear d about Candace Bushnell, I decided to read more books from her.
The four women had one thing in common they are relatively rich and very beautiful, however it is not much in the city jungle, where you can always find someone younger and more beautiful.
It is fine book if you look at it as whole, but when you try to take it in to the pieces and think about it too much it started to be dull and over cliched.
Before I launch into another diatribe about the enormous amount of crap that is this book, let me say that chick-lit CAN be smart, it can be fun and it can YES PLEASE have a protagonist that, while interested in dating and mating, isn't obsessed over it or derive ALL of her self-esteem from it.
...the problem is that's ALL this novel is about.
I get the Sex and the City thing- I even loved the show for the first few seasons before they became walking cliches of superficiality and excess, but that's exactly what this book is about.
Spare yourself this or any of Bushnell's tripe and go read some Marian Keyes.
I like watching Sex and the City, a funny and interesting television show about four female friends and their love lives in the city. This book, however, is dreadful. I had a hard time getting through it. The characters and stories are not funny nor are they in any way interesting. You don't care about the characters, but almost sort of want them to wander into city traffic and get run over. Luckily I borrowed this from the library and didn't actually squander any of my hard-earned money on it.
Good? Eh. Entertaining? Mostly. This book was like reading an episode of Sex and the City, except that the characters are less fun, more emotionally messed up and often married. They do have similar taste in shoes, drink a lot of cocktails and talk about sex a lot. It was a quick read -- good for the beach, airplane or anywhere you won't be embarrassed to be seen reading it.
But stories are not reality, no matter how much we might wish them so.And that's not so bad.And then, because it would be too bad ass to end the book on that note, Bushnell has this character meet the love of her life on the flight back home.
I almost felt okay not ever getting married or whatever.I think the best thing that can be taken away from reading Bushnell is that she is, in fact, trying to honestly chronicle how shitty it feels to run around looking for love, looking for sex, looking for a non-jerk and having that ever-persistent feeling, that, in the end, you might not have your best friend waking up next to you every morning.
I actually remember reading this years ago and going through the worst rated titles on goodreads the awful book springs back to my mind.
I picked it up in a charity shop so many years ago because of the author and it was just terrible, I mean I was really young but still I was young enough the realise how self absorbed these characters are and how dull this book was as well.
Generally awful and so much body shaming and really bad ideals which could really harm a reader.
Tā arī neizlasīju līdz galam. Varones liek zaudēt interesi jau pēc 2 rindkopām, un, lai gan gribēju 4 varoņu mijiedarbību, dabūju 4 atsevišķus un seklus stāstiņus.
