https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1170613.The_Fuzzy_Duckling
I remember my sis and I had a copy of this book, so I know I've read it (probably a couple hundred times), but I'll be damned if I can remember a single thing about the plot or main character. This one was not a favorite.
Love the illustrations! The board book format of some of these classic Little Golden Books is really great.
“The Fuzzy Duckling” by Jane Werner Watson (Little Golden Books)Sweet story about how “... no one would come for a walk with the fuzzy duckling. So on he went, all by his lone.”- - -
A counting book about a duckling who wanders from home trying to find someone who will walk with him. After a long search through some classic farm animals, he finally finds his family... ducks who want to walk, too! Great illustrations and a good introduction to counting and farm animals for toddlers.
I expected more from this book; I just think the story could have been better. Fuzzy duckling meets different animals (in numerical order - ex: 4 noisy turkeys, 5 white geese), but no one will walk with him. Finally he finds his family and falls in line with the other ducklings.
GB 51 (2)
This little ducky just wants to make some friends. Will he find someone to play with?
Sweet story
Cute story of a duckling trying to find some animals to walk with it. Teaches counting and animal recognition. Sweet, somewhat predictable, ending.
Another favorite from the Golden Books collection.
JESmall-GolW
I used to own this one as a kid, but don't really have much of a memory of it. I'm sure I liked it, because it had animals in it.
When I was very little, this was one of my favorite books. I called it "The Fuzzling Duck" :)
I remember the cover just not the story.
This may possibly have been the first book I read on my own at the end of first grade, when I realized I could read on my own. After that I never stopped.
I read this book over and over every night to my oldest son. To this day, I can still recite the story by memory. I now have 2 copies waiting for when my sons have children of their own
3* writing - the sentences do not flow as well as they could, however the pictures are lovely and the story is perfect for my 18 month old. He likes it quite a lot.
Jude Book #242: A fuzzy little duck gets no help
This book in a new paperback would cost $53.93, if used paperback it would cost $0.01. if you buy a new Board book it would cost $0.14, if used Board book it would cost $0.01. On Amazon.
