https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/239509.Women_Who_Love_Too_Much
Women who love too much: when you keep wishing, Robin NorwoodWomen Who Love Too Much is a self-help book by Robin Norwood published in 1985.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز چهارم ماه سپتامبر سال 1999 میلادیعنوان: زنان شیفته؛ نویسنده: رابین نوروود؛ مترجم: مهدی قراچه داغی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، ذهن آویز، 1378، در 175 ص، شابک: 9649206914؛ چاپ سوم 1380؛ چهارم 1383؛ ششم 1386؛ هفتم 1388؛ چاپ بعدی، تهران، پیکان، 1389؛ چهاردهم 1394؛ موضوع: روان درمانی گروهی، بهداشت روانی، عشقیک خودآموز کمکی است برای از بین بردن مشک
‎Women who love too much: when you keep wishing, Robin NorwoodWomen Who Love Too Much is a self-help book by Robin Norwood published in 1985.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز چهارم ماه سپتامبر سال 1999 میلادیعنوان: زنان شیفته؛ نویسنده: رابین نوروود؛ مترجم: مهدی قراچه داغی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، ذهن آویز، 1378، در 175 ص، شابک: 9649206914؛ چاپ سوم 1380؛ چهارم 1383؛ ششم 1386؛ هفتم 1388؛ چاپ بعدی، تهران، پیکان، 1389؛ چهاردهم 1394؛ موضوع: روان درمانی گروهی، بهداشت روانی، عشقیک خودآموز کمکی است برای از بین بردن مشکلات زنان در رابطه‌ شان با همسرشان. ا. شربیانی
I think this book is a necessary to be read by all women not because we are in same situation with women mentioned in this book, but because the nature of all women is to be kind and pleasing others. Then we can understand how much kindness is logical in relationships. For me my mom is the God of kindness but even in our relationship I always ask her to be kind to herself first then others and I think this is the best and healthier way to connect others by a woman.
There have been many "Ohhhhh...yeah, I remember reading that" moments for me.It's not going to change your life or save you from falling into your darkest places, but it's a good book for women to read if only to understand certain patterns of behavior that either we, individually or collectively, put into our relationships.
While I don't remember it to be preachy, it does a good job of explaining why we may do certain things and why we shouldn't.Yes, it's kitschy and you might be embarrassed if someone sees that you're reading it, but I'd recommend this for all women.
changed my life.....again. My sister gave this to me, the first time i read it, I got mad. the second time I read it, I cried. the 3rd time I read it, I left my husband......but be warned, unless God changes you inside, if we don't learn from our past, we WILL repest it...in bad relationships...that's why i am single.
Honestly, this book allowed me to realize what I personally was(is) doing wrong in relationships.
This book states how our childhood can affect our future relationships with partners and friends, stories from women with different traumas they've experienced in their life, the problems they encountered with their destructive partners, and the reasons why they are attracted to them.
I recommend this to all types of women who have discovered themselves in turbulence relationships with the same pattern of unhealthy, agonizing emotions.
This book affirms us of our own self-worth, how to seek help and not be ashamed of loving too much, and how you can continue a healthy lifestyle of trying to make yourself happy first.
Reading Women Who Love Too Much has definitely opened my wounds that have already long been healed.The reason why I bought this book, and why I got astonished and excited when I stumbled upon it, is because I've always thought I AM a woman who loves too much (as evidenced by my past relationship/s, ages ago).
and that's the best part of reading the book -- it cracks you open, it compels you to stop, let go, live, love and accept yourself...
I hated the book, threw it in a corner, picked it up again and weeped until the end....
Very insightful book.
I appreciated the ideas that you cannot change your partner, you only can change yourself.
When you focus on all of your partner's "flaws" and think that if they change you will be happy, you are using that as an excuse not to address your own problems.
Also that being "selfless" can be a form of manipulation.
There is definitely truth in that if we focus on ourselves and strive to be better and give less focus on our partner's issues by trying to control or change them, that leads to a healthier life and a healthier relationship dynamic.
Или какво всъщност значи да си добър родител...Аз съм доста емоционално повреден човек, голяма част от описаните ситуации са ми се случвали и благодарение на книгата направих връзка с неща от детството си, примерно - винаги са ми се карали, ако плача и като цяло изразяването на чувства не беше приемливо.
Беше ми особено любопитно да прочета главата "Красавицата и звяра", защото това ми е любимото детско филмче, а там анализират как може да бъде интерпретирана приказката.
This book changed my life. I've never believed in self-help books, but this book is just unbelievable! It makes you feel as if someone just entered your mind, read every word and then put it down in a way that almost makes you shiver. It's so perceptive, it's almost uncanny. If you are or ever have been in a relationship that's meant more pain than love, more tears than joy and more giving than what you're getting in return, this book is for you. It's the biggest wake up call you'll ever get. I cannot recommend it enough!
Дуже хороша книжка, причому корисна незалежно від того чи перебуваєте ви в стосунках чи ні. Безвідносно до вашого сімейного стану, вона може дати можливість подивитися на себе та своє життя трішечки інакше, проаналізувати свої стосунки з оточуючими людьми, та навчитися краще турбуватися про себе. Корисна книжка, шкода, що не потрабпила мені до рук раніше.
I am not a fan of self-help books generally speaking, so when a friend who'd been in a situation similar to mine suggested I read this book, I blew it off for almost a year.
I was pretty sure I'd be too busy rolling my eyes at it to actually absorb anything written on the page.
As it turns out, this book spurred me to take a long look at myself and the choices I'd made- both healthy and un- and to ask myself a lot of questions I hadn't thought to ask myself in a very long time, if ever.
Мисля, че към книгите тип приложна психология трябва до се подхожда доста внимателно и само ако можеш да отсееш зърното от плявата. Не бих погледнала тази книга, ако не ми я бяха изрично препоръчали. Хареса ми, че обяснява моделите на "прекомерно обичане' с примери. На мен беше полезна, защото нарича нещата с истинските им имена- нещо което е важно за такъв тип книги.
Її авторка Робін Норвуд — знана у світі і дуже досвідчена психотерапевтка, яка спеціалізується на проблемах залежності, співзалежності, компульсивного переїдання і нездорових моделях любовних стосунків.
Тому авторка радить жінкам: дбайте про себе, спрямовуйте енергію на те, щоб покращити своє життя, а не змінити чиєсь, проблеми чоловіка (навіть коли це законний муж) — це його проблеми, і йому ж буде ліпше і корисніше, якщо він вирішуватиме їх сам.Насправді, це досить скорочений і спрощений виклад головних меседжів книжки.
Ao longo do livro encontramos vários testemunhos sobre casos de mulheres que amam de mais, normalmente mulheres com fortes problemas que tiveram inicio na sua infância colmatando em fortes défices emocionais que, de alguma forma, elas desejam preencher através do "amor".Contudo, todas elas parecem ter uma forte atracção, não por homens que de facto as amem, mas sim por homens problemáticos pelos quais se "apaixonam" controlam ou ficam obcecadas.
E, apesar de verem os problemas deles (ex: álcool ou infidelidade) o «posso salvá-lo» torna-se mais forte arrastando-as para relações destrutivas e que apenas lhes causam mais dor e sofrimento.
I picked this up on the way out of my sons' head start during a separation with my husband. I didn't think I would get very far into it but thought I should try considering my situation. The first 60+ pages flew by and I had learned an incredible amount. Sometimes God sends us little signs, like the lonely old book sitting on the table next to the door!
Of course, this is set up for disaster and heart ache, but women keep repeating this sick pattern over and over.I learned the most from the first and last quarters of the book, but would have appreciated more attention to recovery than the repetitive anecdotes from women who suffer with addiction.
The anecdotes from women who suffer from relationship addiction were helpful, but after reading so many depressing, cyclical stories I decided I needed to skim, or skip over some of them because they didn't really apply to what I was interested in taking away from this book.
Do any of us even know what love is?This book teaches that love shouldn't be about suffering, no matter what overly-popular television programmes and movies would like to tell us, but should be about a mutual caring and respect, and one that doesn't leave us feeling forced to smother another in our attempts to "help" them, make them better.I have always found myself drawn to relationships where I have felt that I have needed to be the "carer".
This hasn't, in my mind, been because I've necessarily been drawn to bad people, like some people are, but partly because I don't feel like I'm useful, or needed, if I can't fulfill a role where I can show that I care.
I now understand myself so much better and I am so grateful for the inspiration and recommendation of my friend to read this book.
I think that every woman should read this book, because even if she doesn't personally suffer from the "disease" of "Loving Too Much", I guarantee that she has a best friend, sister, mother, cousin, or another female in her life that does.
I think that relationships would last longer and be more healthy and happy if every person read this book.
Please share this book with anyone that you know is struggling with relationships in any way!
This is an amazing book that helped me get through a huge break up, and to look at how I had dealt with intimate relationships over the years. I also got the opportunity to dig into the deep emotional avenues of my soul, and look at my father issues face to face. I highly recommend it to any woman who has noticed unhealthy relationship patterns in their life. This books helps you to see "why," rather than blame yourself.
For many years this book was suggested to me, until I finally read it, ... again and again.It holds the key to a completely new self, to a better, a satisfactory and healthy life.Wheras the main content of the book simpy is be more selfish, make yourself happy, and every one else will be;it shows relationship structures and the origin of certain behaviours.You deserve to be loved for who you are, and not for your sacrifices. For some it takes a book (this book) to understand this.
For many years this book was suggested to me, until I finally read it, ... again and again.It holds the key to a completely new self, to a better, a satisfactory and healthy life.Wheras the main content of the book simpy is ¨be more selfish¨, ¨make yourself happy, and every one else will be¨;it shows relationship structures and the origin of certain behaviours.You deserve to be loved for who you are, and not for your sacrifices. For some it takes a book (this book) to understand this.
If you are prone to give your all in relationships only to be left high and dry when it's all said and done this is an insightful book.If you are eager to give your love this is for you to men that use it and abuse it, read this.If you for any reason are not sure if you should read this boon then READ it. Obviously if you weren't interested in some aspect you wouldn't be researching it. You wouldn't even notice it if you aren't interested.
This book was required reading for my SisterCare group. Reading this book probably saved my life. It forced me to examine myself and change some of my weak ways. I am not the same woman I once was thanks to this book.
Можете корить себя, что ввязались в провальные отношения - особенно, если это не впервой - но брать на себя всю ответственность, сводить всё к "я сама такого выбрала" и "видимо я просто люблю страдать" - уж не знаю, как Норвуд, а я думаю, что это лишь очередное проявление той самой низкой самооценки.
Туда же добавляем общество анонимных клептоманов и людей, страдающих пищевыми расстройствами - ведь если вам попался козел, значит вы точно спились, украли тампоны в аптеке или развили у себя булимию.Интересно, что во всех примерах Норвуд те девушки, которые со своими баранами вроде как устаканивали проблемы, затем сами же начинали портить отношения с партнером.
Слаще всех конфет, халвы и брауни — подспудное и мерзкое желание страдать. Да, да, не надо мне вашей любви. И уважать меня не надо, кормите меня, пожалуйста, нечуткостью, слепотой и злостью. На это всё у меня хоть наработаны ферменты. А любовь, что любовь? Такую дичь я не переварю.Словом, да, всем читать и по пунктикам, как зайчики, выполнять предписания.
I am all for learning about yourself, even reading one of Oprah's self help books once in a while but this was awful. If you are going to read a book about codependency or women who need to respect themselves more, I would not suggest this one.
I found the first chapter really interesting, but the rest was a series of incredibly repetitive case studies that were incredibly dull. I got the point from the first chapter and there didn't seem to be much reason to keep reading it after that.
Plenty of good advice for those seeking it.
Книга, где очень хорошо написано, как перестать считать отношения главным делом жизни и перестать всеми руководить и всех контролировать, очень славно
Очаквах, че авторката опитва да утеши жените, хленчещи за това, че се „раздават“ до последната капка, а все не попадат на подходящи мъже, и да ги насърчи да търсят този, който наистина ги „заслужава“.
Ако не осъзнае повторението на нещастието, което сама си причинява, това може да продължи през целия ѝ живот.Да смениш моделите, които са отпечатани дълбоко в теб, е много трудно, защото това е фундаментална промяна, която размества всичко теб, преструктурира те… Моделите, на които си бил свидетел, не просто са те научили на това какво е жена и какво е мъж и как успешно да се адаптираш към трудностите във взаимоотношенията между тях, а са формирали вкусовете ти, т.е.
