https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14033.First_Snow_on_Fuji
A male actor in a travelling troupe plays women’s roles so well and for so long that he starts to become a woman.In Raindrops, an auto accident leads to a man bringing his young woman assistant home, leading his wife to question “are they or aren’t they?”In The Chrysanthemum in the Rock, an old ghost story leads a man to mediate on death and the type of memorial he wants.Silence features and elderly author who has determined to stop writing and speaking.
(Kawabata’s obituary included his quote “A silent death is an endless word.”)In Her Husband Didn’t, a young man is having an affair with an older married woman.
The “I” in me seems to have disappeared. Or perhaps I ought to say that a different “I” has been living inside me.” This book was supposed to be my very first Kawabata. But as fate or rather a clumsy and lethargic online courier service would have it, I had to somehow make peace with his full length novels. Nonetheless, I’m glad at these destined turn of events, for if it had not been Kawabata’s elaborate prose, I would have never found the mysticism of silence that subtly encompassed his liter
The “I” dissolving in the vortex of time, the soul of its individuality lost in the responses of the past and an altered “I” labouring through a sea of words, the vulnerable emotions crippled by the veracity of the present and the chimerical future.The mind is most powerful in the sanctuary of its silence; the still waters are the deepest and in the gloomy calmness of the chest, the vigorous thumping of the heart deafening the present voices with the sinister shadows of the past.
The language of words, the world of communication caught between the conflict of past and present, memories disseminating through the flirting powers of silence encumbering the fleeting beauty of life.
I think that sometime before I die I would like to get inside silence, at least for a while." .........My favorite story in First Snow on Fuji is "Silence".
Kawabata must feel that way too, despite that he MUST have been the married man with the mistress with the glorious past and prematurely nostalgic future.
'First Snow on Fuji' felt like the almost comfort of knowing you were once loved.
The way that it can feel like you're trying to hold onto the idea of honest in other people.
Non amo molto i finali aperti, ma penso comunque che queste storie esprimono tutto ciò che l'autore avrebbe voluto dire, il finale aperto non toglie nulla.
Perché sono storie fin troppo lente e noiose, mi hanno comunicato poco, non sono riuscita a relazionarmi con nessuno dei protagonisti e non mi hanno emozionato.EnglishDidn't like this that much.
I usually like short stories, but I wasn't in the right mood, I really needed a good fiction into lose myself.Most part of the stories deal with marital infidelity and I liked how the author was able to look into female psychology with only a few words.
I'm a man, of course, and "Are you a virgin?" isn't a question one asks actors in traveling troupes – it's the sort of thing that might have made me burst out laughing, but I was so startled that my voice wouldn't come.
What do you suppose he gave me as a memento?''What did he give you?''Cyanide.''Cyanide?''Yes. His girlfriend had been conscripted to work in a factory, and she had asked for cyanide – as preparation for the worst.
Of course at the time that sort of thing was quite popular among young women working in the factories.
2nd reading.
Kawabata is more famous in Japan for his very short stories, such as those in 'Palm of the Hand Stories', and more famous in the West for his novels.
They are between 10 and 50 pages, and you can tell that this length is not Kawabata's strongest form.
Some stories do suffer from either having too much or too little information in them in this book (Chrysanthemum on the Rock, Yumimura), but most of the others were successful.The standout stories were Raindrops, Her Husband Didn't, and Silence.
Kawabata is one of my favorite authors, this collection, as a whole, impressed me.P.S.
With this I round out all of Kawabata's works currently in English translation and I'm a little sad since he is so wonderful.
Hopefully, the future will hold some translations of some of his other stuff ('Dandelions' comes out in December).These are shorter works Kawabata wrote in the late 1950s, pre-House of the Sleeping Beauties.
The title story, 'Yumiura', and 'Silence' are all supreme writing.
'Nature', a disturbing tale of a transvestite actor who hid as a woman during the war, stands out as well.
Let me put it this way: you're better off for reading everything this guy wrote.
Just read something beautiful.
There's a sparseness about these stories. And subtlety. It surprised me to learn they were written in the fifties, but since there are references to post-war Japan, not so surprising. My favourite was First Snow on Fuji where infidelity plays a part. A number of his stories are about husbands or wives stepping out.
Japanesse literature is a contradiction....you do not understand sometimes some situations but only the japanesse books shows the world with a very sutile touch....is something familiar to sit down on a hill and to look at the dawn for a few moments
The beauty of spare prose combined with the complications of conflicted emotions is the way I would describe the titular story in this collection.
Yasunari Kawabata, whose novel Thousand Cranes moved me some years ago, manages to convey the sorrows of Japan through a chance meeting between two former lovers in the short story "First Snow on Fuji".
In this spare story, as with much of the prose this very modern author, the chance meeting leads to a planned encounter.
A trip to the country yields much about the lives of the two lovers, Jiro and Utake, but leaves even more unsaid, hidden between the lines.

I love Kawabata, this is a collection of short stories. Kawabata purposely write sparsely and with precision. It is a style that lends it's self to the genre, sadly there are not a lot of his stories in english translation. As a bonus, there is a dance drama at the end of the collection which I always seeing. "Nature" is probably the best story in the group. It's about a man who became a female actress to escape enlisting for the war. The gender identities explored are fairly shocking considering the story was written in the 50s.
Overwhelmed by student writing and all the things I assign people to read, I had a need to read something for pleasure. I remembered "Silence," in this book, a sweet ghost story, and tracked it down to read... So amazing, and then I read another, and another. These late stories often catch Kawabata in a more reflective mode; his subtle observations, especially how landscape descriptions cast emotions and atmosphere, are more powerful to me than any other writer's bombast.
The first Kawabata I read, I particularly like the title story, "A Row of Trees" and "Yumiura". They are subtle short stories and, while each has a particular theme, memory, its mutability and loss are a common theme (is this mono no aware?). For me they relate to Proust, Modiano, Murakami and Auster.
What I loved about this was the emotionality that Kawabata captures about so many regular but rarely discussed challenges in life. It is all very cerebral and you imagine his characters living more in their head than they do in their lives. Just like Murakami, most, if not all of the characters are struggling to have meaningful relationships and establish connections with others.
These stories are pieces of life, beautifully written. I just wish I had enjoyed them more, instead of feeling frustrated wondering after I finished each story: "and then?". "Silence" and "First Snow on Fuji" were really great ... even with my questions at the end.
3.5/5I really loved it. After Snow Country, I wanted to read more of Kawabata, and after this book, I want to read even more !
Leer a Kawabata siempre me deja con cierta sensación de nostalgia y tristeza mezcladas. Hay algo muy japonés en eso, aunque no sabría decir por qué. Quizás tenga que ver con aquella consciencia de la brevedad, de que cada momento es el último y que a medida que transcurren los años nuestros ojos se vuelven más y más hacia el pasado. En ese sentido, las historias que escribió Kawabata son el testimonio de una época que no volverá y es precisamente ahí donde radica su belleza.
Not a consistent collection, but there are a few gems here. The titular story is one, as well as "This Country, That Country," "A Row of Trees," "Silence," and "Her Husband Didn't."
Es literatura pensada no sólo para entretener, sino también para abotargar los sentidos, inflamarlos de belleza; asaltar nuestra percepción con infinidad de pequeños destellos de genialidad capaces de llevarnos hasta un estado en el cual, de algún modo, somos asaltados emocionalmente sin haber sabido verlo venir.Si algo diferencia al arte japonés del de cualquier otra nacionalidad es su forma de mirar.
Si hemos leído atentamente, en ambos casos atesoraremos la misma sensación: el placer intenso de estar ante algo mágico, único, que no podría haber escrito de ese modo ningún otro escritor del mundo.Es la forma de mirar, no lo observado.


Meh. These short stories did not have much of an arch. It was more like, "Let's just watch these people for a few days...OK, and we're done." I did like the story that the book is named after, and the first one was nice too. Prettily written, but just not my cup o'tea.
Read again Oct 5-6 ----Loved all the stories in this book, even the play at the end was great (loved the setting). This collection would be a perfect introduction to his style and works.
In addition, he was born in 1899, so forgive me if it feels like there’s a sense that his writing perfectly tracks the 20th century, as I understand it, in Japan, with a real tension about Japan’s role in the new American century post-war, along with Japan’s post-war sensibility and modernity, and then Kawabata’s win for the Nobel Prize representing a kind of acceptance in the West.This collection is mostly made up of stories taking place in Kawabata’s contemporary Japan–modern society, modern values.
And so a lot of the understood morality of divorce, infidelity, is tracked along the changing mores in these stories.
Nevertheless, I still cherish this collection of short stories, for it provides me with another look at Yasunari Kawabata's familiar thoughts, from his eternal loneliness, his cherished yet painful feelings about loves between man and woman, or his hatred of war, his melancholic longings for the years that already passed, and his premonition of his own ultimate demise.
The more I know and understand about one of my favorite authors, the better, and of course I could not expect to read another "Snow Country", another "The Old Capital", the only thing I can do is rereading them, and savoring them through reading other satisfying works by Yasunari Kawabata, like this one.
Didn’t feel like a race to read a page long story.
On the whole I enjoyed the book, the only bit I didn’t enjoy because it is not cup of tea was the final script The Boat Women, I didn’t really absorb that one.On the whole a good read, I have rated it 4 but would actually rated 3.5/5.
Individual ratings for the storiesThis Country, That Country: 3A Row of Trees: 3Nature: 4Chrysanthemum in The Rock: 3First Snow On Fuji: 4.5Slence: 3Her Husband Didn’t: 3Yumiura: 3The Boat Women: 2
Come antiche rocce nascoste nei recessi delle montagne, non hanno forse una bellezza che cattura lo sguardo a prima vista. Eppure, ogni volta che una di esse penetrava nel mio campo visivo, la forte bellezza di cui esse erano impregnate si trasmetteva a me, comunicandomi un senso d'inesprimibile intimità nei confronti dell'antico Giappone. (pagina 101)Lungo la via del mare sospesa sulle ondeVedenti e ciechiNella stessa naveSospinti verso un solo destino.(pagina 187)Sul mare la neve non si accumulaSolo i pensieri delle donne si accumulano.(pagina 201)
Excellent translations by Michael Emmerich. Nine short stories, nicely varied in voice and atmosphere. The collection also contains “The Boat-Women: a Dance-drama’ based freely on the medieval war tale The Tale of the Heike and the noh play Kagekiyo. The original title is FUNA YŪJO 舟遊女. Googling this title, I see that the piece has been revived for the theatre on a number of occasions and has also been adapted and staged as a kabuki play.(In a rare error, Emmerich misreads the part of Kagekiyo’s full name 景清悪七兵衛 as Aku Nanahei rather than Akj Shichibyōe.)
