https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1825858.My_Gun_Is_Quick
By pure accident he met a prostitute who is drop-dead gorgeous like every single woman in the series.
She was instantly drawn to him like every single woman in the series.
For those unfamiliar with the character I can give a very simple and easy explanation of what pissed off Make Hammer looks like.
Do not even try to start your acquaintance with noir mystery by reading this.
Read anything by the three classics of the genre I mentioned above.
But while other hardboiled writers like Hammett, Chandler, Cain, Jim Thompson and Horace McCoy have gained at least a small degree of acceptance by the literary establishment Spillane is still generally reviled.
There’s the same passionate outrage against corruption that you find in Chandler, and Spillane certainly can’t be accused of being naïve about the seamy underside of the American Dream.
Surprisingly enough Spillane only published thirteen Mike Hammer books.
That’s something one doesn’t quite expect, given Spillane’s reputation.Spillane’s style might lack the polish of Chandler’s but like Mike Hammer’s detective methods it gets the job done.
If you can’t accept it you won’t like Spillane.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Or, then again you'll be dead." That practically totals up Mike Hammer's reasoning of life in New York City all through the majority of his appearances in Mickey Spillane books.
Be that as it may, in My Gun Is Quick, Spillane's singing 1950 story of retribution, Hammer really says this to the peruser.
As in numerous other Hammer books, he commits himself to discovering her executioner and administering his own particular image of equity before the framework can mess it up.
The peruser will feel Hammer's hot cravings as he strokes the stripped skin of a lovely lady.
Lock up your daughters, Mike Hammer's in town!
A look of adoration directed at our man Mike is apparently enough to wipe away all trace of a life of sin and degradation and venereal disease; after all, he says as much.
One of the call girls tells him that other guys have to pay for sex...he'll never have to, of course, "it's the women who pay" when they have it away with our man Mike.
I will say it was an extremely quick read, and made me laugh in all the wrong places.
Why did I read it?
Really enjoying this series - this one was even better than the first one.Mike Hammer is such a great character !
He'll stop at nothing until justice is served.CHARACTERS=5: Mike Hammer: think a big, strong Bond on steroids but no gimmicks to help him nail the bad guys.
How would you like to go for a ride and sober up a little?" (Mike never takes advantage of drunk ladies.)Lola: "Umm. You got a nice shiny convertible for Lola to ride in?
There's only one way to get it off".Mike thinks: A devil was making love to me...My fingers closed over the silk and I ripped it away with a hissing, tearing sound.Spillane knows how to start a sex scene, but even better, he knows (like any great artist) when to stop.
I had this figured out within about 40 pages. Either Mike Hammer is as stupid as a sack of hammers or MIckey Spillane thought his readers were. But Mike's too busy getting the crap beaten out of him at regular intervals (but he's so supernaturally tough that he can just shake it off) and bedding every pulsating female (because every woman secretly loves a brute, you know) to think for two seconds about what's going on. A fantasy for 12-year-olds and bored office workers who like to fantasize about tough guys with quick guns (phallic imagery absolutely intended).
Continuing my tour through mid 20th century private detective fiction, this second volume of Mickey Spillane's series featuring Mike Hammer is the juiciest yet. There's more sex, more violence and the first person POV allows for great tough guy inner monologue, compared to Dashiell Hammett and Raymond Chandler's books. It is delightfully over the top, right down to the gruesome vengeance at the end.
Another strong detective story, and while the ending is a bit telegraphed and the logic a bit tenuous, the denouement is arguably Shakespearean in its structure and presentation. Really. The final 5 pages are that good.
Though this is the 2nd Mike Hammer Novel, it is my first experience with the famed character.
The dialogue is usually strong, except when Hammer is talking to a "skirt" and then it becomes melodramatic and is hard to take seriously.
Like more modern incarnations of the private eye, such as Parker's Spenser, Hammer is a tough guy, able to take his licks while getting in a few of his own.
Of course, it was a pleasure to watch Mike Hammer reach that conclusion as well, it just left me wondering what took him so long.
Hammer has a soft spot for all the people who get ripped apart by life, who have their dreams torn to tiny little bits as each gray day goes on.Though he doesn’t learn her name till halfway through the book, Hammer tries to figure out what happened to “Red” as he takes to calling her and, on the way, steps into a web of corruption and blackmail and greed.What’s great about this book isn’t necessarily the plot, which is typical of hardboiled fifties stories, but the great Spillane writing in it.
That left me with the custom-built tweed that was made to be worn over a rod, so I slapped on the shoulder holster and filled it with the .45, then slipped on the jacket.
Downstairs I got a shave and a haircut, which left me enough time to get to the office in a few minutes before the old gent."The plot was predictable, the violence improbable, and the dialogue just laughable...but there was enough there to make me want to finish the ride, even though I knew I'd been there before.
Hammett and Chandler can be bad enough, but Mickey Spillane's misogynism really got my goat in a way they didn't do (almost made worse by Velda being a decent woman, because of all the jokes about Hammer marrying her).Hammer is a good name for him, because he really is a blunt instrument.
If you've got the same omnibus, and you sort of guiltily enjoyed the first two books, the third is worth hanging on for (because Velda is awesome).
This book has the same general plot as the last Mike Hammer book: someone kills one of Mike's friends and he goes out looking for revenge.
There is more action and the violence is much more gruesome (at one point Mike smashes someone's head to a meaty pulp) and the mystery is deeper.
By the end of the novel Mike practically goes insane with revenge and people start dropping left and right.
The lessons that we learn from this novel are:1.
If you are a dame, stay away from Mike Hammer2.
If you are not Mike Hammer, don't piss off Mike Hammer
Второто книжно приключение на Майк Хамър е по-сурово, по-предвидимо и по-перверзно от "Аз, съдникът". С няколко готини момента и повече бутафория, отколкото е по вкуса на порасналата версия на някогашното хлапе, трепетно посягащо към парцаливите книжлета с почти порнографски корици, романчето е идеално за убиване на 2 часа по бързата процедура.Усещам, че ако моделът и цикличността са неотменна част и от следващите серии, трудно ще докарам до култовата 13-а част - последната, която Спилейн завършва сам преди смъртта си.
"You have to be quick, and you have to be able, or you become one of the devoured, and if you kill first, no matter who, you can live and return to the comfortable chair and the comfortable fire. But you have to be quick. And able. Or you'll be dead." Enjoyed this a lot more than 'I, the Jury' for some reason, which i read a couple of years ago.
Another tough guy Mike Hammer fantasy from Mickey Spillane. I actually likd this more than "I, The Jury".
That was my first introduction to Mike Hammer and to be honest I wasn't sure I'd read any others.However I am glad that I picked up 'My Gun Is Quick'.
There is a softer side to Hammer's character this time around and there is a greater humour to the writing - which makes it an easier read.Okay some of the prose tips over almost into parody of the hard boiled genre, none of the female characters are that well definied and it's not too hard to figure out whodunnit.
But for a quick and entertaining read I would thoroughly recommend it.
mickey spillane to me is under rated, he should be in the same group as ross macdonald and raymond chandler. but I think as most of his writing was during the mass detective era for movies and tv . the masses were getting burnt out and over saturated . I suggest anyone read the first few mickey novels.in this book I grew to be fond of character lola as I never have reading other (dick) novels. for that i give this a 5 stars
http://dsdmona1.blogspot.com.es/2015/...
When a hoodlum named Feeney Last enters the joint and demands she come with him, Hammer slaps the thug down and draws on him as he reaches for his gun."Just touch that rod you got and I'll blow your damned greasy head off," the private eye snarls, adding in a line reminiscent of "Sudden Impact's" "Dirty Harry" Callahan: "Go ahead, just make one lousy move toward it."Hammer disarms the goon and turns him over to some uniformed cops; then, in an uncharacteristic act of altruism, he gives Red money enough to buy a decent outfit and make a new start.
When Hammer is discussing Red's death with his cop chum, Pat Chambers, for example, Spillane inserts the words "kid" or "kids" twice in one paragraph, giving the entire passage a yawn-inducing dullness.He also has a ham-handed way of using slang that can be like fingernails on a blackboard.
The second instalment of the series is grittier, seedier and completely overflowing with the typical passion and brutality that can only exude from a Mike Hammer story.
I shoot them like the mad dogs they are and society drags me to court to explain the whys and wherefores of the extermination." Unlike any other protagonist Mike Hammer displays a vicious rage against any violent crime.
It’s interesting to note that anti-communism was a very big thing during 1947 to capture the mass sentiment in the USA.This story is Mike Hammer walking through the darkest side of prostitution.
I imagine myself with a crew-cut, sitting down with a six-pack of Schlitz and a pack of unfiltered luckies in a grimy downtown hotel to spend an evening reading some Mike Hammer tale.Mickey Spillane was NOT a great writer, his plots are simplistic (it was pretty easy to figure out who the brains were behind the crimes in this novel), filled with cartoon characters, chessy dialogues and with a splash of some macho sex and violence.
But if you want to escape to a fantasy macho world for a few hours, this book might not be the worst choice.
My Gun is Quick is a solid sophomore effort from Mickey Spillane, featuring his famed private detective protagonist Mike Hammer.Where I, The Jury revolved around the mysterious murder of his war buddy; My Gun is Quick revolves around the death of a redhead that wasn't Hammer's friend very long.
Mysterious button men try their hardest to silence him, but Mike Hammer is hard to kill.
This time, he is also helped by Lola, a former working lady who's jumped the racket and who knew the redhead.The plotting is a little better than in I, The Jury, but it can still be seen clearly that Spillane's trying to hit his stride.
A good-looking hooker. Mike likes her. Murdered thinks Mike who seeks retribution of the lethal kind. Incompetent police only get in his way. Beautiful women have to be fought off as he chases down and brutally kills those responsible for the hooker's death and more. Occasional cringeworthy dialogue but if you like raw noir from a different society over sixty years ago, Mickey Spillane's your author.
This is not the best classic hard-boiled detective novel you will read. Some of the prose is downright awful, which I wouldn't have said about I, The Jury... the first Mike Hammer story I read. Still, Spillane is like no one else from the era when writing about bloodlust. There's a gripping quality to the words because you do not get the sense that they were written by a man trying to imagine what it is like to have something like that in his heart. And if he was, it's a very convincing ruse.
This one was slightly better than "I, the Jury" and I suspect that is because there was an editor involved. You still know who did it in the first twenty pages but at least this one, for the most part, doesn't feel like something written in the back of science class by a horny eighth grader.
This was just a fun quick listen as it was only like 2 hours and 30 minutes. I had never read/listened to a Mike Hammer book before but I remember my grandfather talking about them so when I seen it on overdrive I gave it a try.
Pathetic, cliche-ridden male fantasy, where every woman is buxom and willing, and every man is a mere bug on Mike Hammer's windshield.
