https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9850443-the-sisters-brothers
Saddle up and ride along with Charlie and Eli Sisters down a trail of dark comedy.The horses are accustomed to gun fire but all your laughing out loud may spook'um a bit. From what I've heard the production of this movie has finished and it should hit the theaters some time this year, 2018. Staring John C. Reilly, Joaquin Phoenix, Rutger Hauer and Jake Gyllenhaal.
What’s great, though, is that the coolness doesn’t end there.Charlie and Eli sisters are Gold Rush–era contract killers.
They’re hired for what Eli hopes to be their last job, as he’d much prefer to hang his holster and settle down with a nice girl—or failing that, the first trollop that crosses his path.
It’d be tougher to convince him to make sound retirement plans, what with the allure of all that cash and booze that accompanies “the job.”Sounds like the makings of some brilliant Coen brothers film, doesn’t it?
In fact, this book is brilliant.
P.S. Don’t pretend this book doesn’t remind you of Seth Bullock.
In the course of their journey from Oregon to California, at the height of the gold rush, they meet a panoply of misfits and losers who provide a steady stream of often humorous incidents that help to explicate the brother's relationship.
Add to this set-up, a narrative voice, provided by Eli, the younger of the two gunslinging brothers, that has a deadpan simplicity that is oddly appealing.
Things happen and some of them are funny, but they don't lay the groundwork for growth in Eli's character that the form demands.
It doesn't help that once the brothers find their target that the plot twist that leads to the climax of the book is singularly flat and generates no tension.
Satirical The Sisters Brothers is a truly original novel.
The writing style is lyrical and the dialogue flows so effortlessly with its satirical interweaving of humour, brotherhood, intrigue and murder, which makes this an exceptional read.
The two Sisters brothers, Charlie and Eli are hitmen for the Commodore, who has contracted them to assassinate Hermann Kermit Warm.
His volatile and less sensitive elder brother doesn’t have the same outlook.
Perhaps the characters took on a life of their own that Patrick deWitt struggled to contain.It was a joy to just lift this book and let the words flow.
This was a strange, quirky and oddly captivating book that I simply could not put down.Eli and Charlie Sisters are not only brothers, but they are assassins put to the task of killing Hermann Kermit Warm.
Along the way they will wet Charlie's taste for Whiskey, Eli will discover the joys of toothpaste, decide to go on a diet, and question what he wants out of life.
It's imaginative, unique and a western without really being a western (huh?) It's peculiar and enjoyable!Don't take my word for it, read the book!See more of my reviews at www.openbookpost.com
اووووف پسرررر این دیگه چی بود! :Dبرادران سیسترز جدا از تکنیکهای ناب نویسندهش در دیالوگنویسی، شخصیتپردازی، پایانبندی و چارچوبِ کلی داستان، یه طنز سیاهِ قلقلکدهنده و در عین حال، یه جاهایی تلخ و گزنده داشت که بیاندازه آدمو به فکر فرو میبرد. غیر از خودِ سوژه و داستان دوتا داداشِ آدمکش- که به قدر کافی دیوونهوار هستن که دیوونههایی مث من خوششون بیاد :دی - کنشهای بین دوبرادر و سوژه فرعیهای داستان چقدر ماهرانه کاشته شده بودن. از جریان عاشقشدنهای پی در پیِ ایلای تا فلشبکهای اندک اما به جا و مهندسیشدهش، بر
اووووف پسرررر این دیگه چی بود!
و یه جاهایی ایلای احساساتی می‌شه، یه جوری که انتظار نمی‌ره یه آدم‌کش مثلاً برا اسبش غصه بخوره.
با این‌که زاویه‌دید مال ایلای بود.
اما تصویر چارلی هم فوق‌العاده ارائه داده بود.
بازم سایه " داداش بزرگه" رو می‌بینی که با همه غرورش خودشو سپر بلای داداش کوچیکه‌ش می‌کنه و احساس مسئولیت داره.در نهایت، چیزی که خیلی بیشتر از همه به دلم نشست، این بود که داستان یه خروج از ریلِ بزرگ و دوست‌داشتنی داشت که با همه تلخی‌ش، شیرین بود و البته غیرقابل انتظار.
تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و دوم فوریه سال 2013 میلادیعنوان: برادران سیسترز؛ نویسنده: پاتریک دویت؛ مترجم: پیمان خاکسار؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، به نگار، چاپ دوم 1391، در 279 ص، اندازه 5/14 در 5/21 س.م.، شابک: 9789646332850؛ چاپ سوم: تهران، زاوش، 1392؛ شابک: 9786007283196؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، نشر چشمه، 1393؛ شابک: 9786002294937؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکای شمالی، داستانهای نویسندگان کانادایی، قرن 21 مپیشتر از این کتاب بنوشته بودم، دیگری را خوش نیامده، و حذف شده، شاید هم به مقصد نرسیده باشد، در کامپیوترم بود، اما دوباره آن نوشته را نکاشتم، برادران سیسترز وسترنی سیاه، تفکربرانگیز و در عین حال کمیک است.
When the Commodore orders the Sisters brothers to kill Herman Kermit Warm and take his mysterious formula, they have no idea the series of misadventures they will endure in the undertaking.I've been interested in this book forever and nabbed it on the cheap when it popped up on one of my ebook newsletter things.
It's also not a very interesting one for long stretches at a time.
I've never before been torn between my admiration for writing and my desire to toss a book back on the unread pile for something more interesting.I did like it more than I thought it was bland, though.
My original review may still be missing...but this but this book is a $1.99 Kindle special today.
It's TERRIFIC....
If this historical FUN fiction...
about two brothers has been on readers TBR list -- this is a great price.I remember saying in my "lost review".
It was the best 'dude' book I had read.
Great 'dude' book that any female will adore.
I was 'liking' a new friends review on this book --and notice my review was missing in action (Iris??)....a Standing joke for all the times she has found my lost reviews!I loved this book --I thought it was a blast!!
Great read, I love it...
Avoid it if you’re looking for a traditional western, no white hats, no riding happily off into the sunset.
A couple of hired guns Eli and brother Charlie Sisters aren’t particularly likeable unless you have a soft spot for psychopaths, Eli’s border-line and brother Charlie full-blown.
Read this if like me you’re not particularly into westerns, you just like books that are different, original.
He consorts with whores "I knew in my heart it was false, and afterward always felt remote and caved in."  He'd rather be with a lady but really needs to work on his come-on lines.
Like, The Sisters Brothers by Patrick deWitt, published in 2011, I had said.
These books were The Sisters Brothers for me and some Russian novelists for him.
Charlie drinks a lot and is apt to shoot anyone who gives him what he thinks is a good reason.
I would say Charlie is psychotic, but that Eli is idiotic.
Kind of like this book report.
This sounds like something Eli might say.
The Sisters Brothers is the type of book that Larry McMurtry's characters would use as a doorstop.
Most people are dirt poor and lots of them headed west to try and make their fortune, but ended up starving to death, getting murdered, or died by some other sickness or disease.
When he got mad at someone, he sent the Sisters Brothers to "get rid of them." In this one, the Commodore wants Charlie and Eli to kill someone named Hermann Warm because he created a liquid substance that, when poured into water, illuminated the gold in rivers, and the Commodore wanted it for himself.
The thing about Charlie and Eli is that you wondered how they made it so far and for so long.
I am so not the target audience for this story.I mean it’s a western.Right?Still the cover art kept 
The Sisters Brothers is the son of True Grit, a funny, heartbreaking 5 star novel from 1968.
No error, this is the story of two guns for hire whose surname is Sisters, and is narrated by the frankly fat one (he goes on a diet around page 50) Eli Sisters.
He doesn’t want to shoot all these people but he finds he seems to have to.
Well, Eli Sisters is a compelling narrator all right but him and his brother are a tough sell.
Don’t feel bad Mr DeWitt, I don’t never hardly give out 4.5 stars.

This ho-hum review of a ho-hum book got tricked up a bit and stuffed in a corner at Expendable Mudge Muses Aloud.Oh, and if for some odd reason you have an opinion about my moving reviews off Goodreads, do feel free to keep it to yourself.  This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License.
This rating is purely for the audiobook publisher, which I would've given negative stars if I could have. I didn't finish this book -- how can an audiobook publisher sell in good conscience an audiobook with only one track to a cd?!
برادران سیسترز دو تا آدمکش حرفه ای، خشن و دوست داشتنی هستن که با هم کار می کنن.رابطشون غریب اما مستحکم.داستان کشش خوبی داره، پر از خشونت و طنز.خیلی حس دیدن یه فیلم تارانتینو رو به خواننده می ده، یه جاهایی مرگ های بی دلیل و خنده دار، دیالوگ های بی ربط ولی جذاب.کتاب به تازگی توسط ژاک اودیار تبدیل به فیلم شده با بازی خواکین فینیکس، جان سی رایلی و جیک جیلنهال که تا یک ماه دیگه اکران میشه و انتخاب بازیگرها واقعا عالیه. این فیلم نامزد جایزه بهترین فیلم جشنواره ی ونیز امسال هست.
The 'New World' was a brutal, vicious battleground, where every random encounter between strangers would very likely end violently.Patrick DeWitt has joined this impressive company with `The Sisters Brothers', a novel that combines the flawlessly crafted prose of fellow Canadian Michael Ondaatje or Charles Frazier, with a darkly comical tale that suggests Charles Portis and James Carlos Blake - particularly his brutal masterpiece `In the Rogue Blood'.
Like the latter, DeWitt's book is a story about brothers who are born killers made for a bloody world; like the former, it has a darkly comedic intelligence.
The Sisters who kill together stay together.Eli Sisters and his older brother Charley are a couple of killers working for the Commodore in 1850s Oregon.
Along the way they kill some people and Eli learns how to brush his teeth.I’d been meaning to read this one for years, and the trailer for the movie finally got me off my ass.
There’s plenty of dark stuff in this genre that I love such as the aforementioned Lonesome Dove, Blood Meridian, Clint Eastwood’s Unforgiven, and the HBO series Deadwood.
And, lest we jump to conclusions, it's not because I'm a bad person myself (at least not in the torture or kill people kind of way; no, the sins in which I dabble are much more pedestrian than that), but it's because I like peering into those dark little corners of their brains.
The brothers are sent by The Commodore on an errand to kill Hermann Kermit Warm, a prospector who has crossed The Commodore in ways unknown to the brothers.
میخوام به یه چیزی اعتراف کنم ، من یه عادتهایی توی کتابخونی دارم که بعضی وقتا به نظرم خیلی مسخره است 
Masterful storytelling highlights this deceptively simple tale of the Sisters brothers, two lowly paid assassins on their way to commit murder and collect their wages. While Eli yearns for a different life and serves as the conscience of the duo, Charlie is the trigger finger. He is violent, remorseless and prone to destructive habits. I've read very few westerns. This one puts me in mind of Pete Dexter's "Deadwood." Gritty and realistic - you can smell the mud and blood.It's sometimes hard to tell the good guys from the bad, as hats tend to be gray, not black and white.
The narrator and main character is Eli Sisters, a hired killer on the American west coast in 1851, around the time of the Gold Rush in the Sierra Nevada mountains.
The Sisters Brothers relates their odyssey and, like all odysseys, it is full of both strange adventures, strong liquor, shoot-outs and hidden revelations.Don't want to go into details on the plot, as not to give too much away, but it involves gold, and let's just say Eli and Charlie are in the habit of killing people, and they are surrounded by killers.
Initially we are given little information regarding this pair, but we soon glean that they are prone to violent acts and have been dispatched to California to hunt down, and kill, a man named Hermann Kermit Warn, at the behest of someone referred to as the Commodore.
Yet he’s always been the junior partner in this working relationship – is it possible he can convince his brother that they should take a different path?For the most part this story felt like a cold and somewhat offbeat account of life in this part of the world at that particular time.
I love the cover of this book. Simply love it. And I'd hoped that I'd be as excited by the words inside the pages. Unfortunately, not so much. It wasn't bad, it just never quite grabbed me, never convinced me of the genius that existed between the covers that had it nominated for so many awards.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
FRICKIN AWESOME!!!!!The Best **DUDE** book 'ever' My 'girlie' friends might even enjoy this whimsical-wonderful-change-of-pace!!!
De Witt's offering for the Man Booker 2011 nominations.
It's very difficult to directly compare and contrast such a widely varied set of novels and then pick the best...
a bit like arguing which is best, legs or arms.
So for that reason I wouldn't want to be on the Man Booker 2011 committee (time travel permitting) but if I was I'd have chosen The Sisters Brothers because I bloody loved it.
The Sisters Brother, Eli and Charlie are a much feared two-man clean up operation, for an enigmatic gentleman known only as the Commodore.
This is the Wild West like you've never read it before.
Jake Gyllenhaal will portray Warm (great casting), Joaquin Phoenix as Charlie and John C.
Reilly as Eli (GREAT casting!)So what’s all the fuss about?
Patrick deWitt’s 2011 novel pays playful homage to the literary western in this delicious dark comedy.Infamous western hitmen Charlie and Eli Sisters are on their latest assignment from the mysterious Commodore.
They are to track down Hermann Kermit Warm, who has somehow wronged their employer.But our narrator Eli is having an angst filled frontier conundrum and he’s just not sure if killing for profit is what he’s meant for.
