https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33300.Reasons_to_Live
A very fine book of short stories. The shorter pieces are spare and elliptical--sort of like Raymond Carver, but without the self-destructive power. But the better longer pieces--"Nashville Gone to Ashes," "In The Cemetery Where Al Jolson is Buried," "Today Will Be a Quiet Day" are excellent. In their classical, restrained, deeply human way they remind me of Tillie Olsen at her best--and that is high praise indeed.
Right now though, I am reading because I enjoy knowing the lives of other people, the situations they are into and I appreciate good writing styles.
Reading Hempel is like pausing after each sentence because each sentence is like a piece of jigsaw puzzle.
How a sentence can mean to others you've already read and those that you will still read.They say that the most anthologized story in this book, Hempel's first, is this In the Cemetery Where Al Jolson is Buried.
The ones that I enjoyed are "In a Tub" (the first story), "San Francisco" (this is puzzling) and "Beg, Sl Tog, Inc, Cont, Rep" (if you wonder what are these, you don't know about knitting).
The Wall Street Journal said of this, "One of the delights of these stories is that they approach the usual cliches of real life and fiction at an unexpected oblique angel." I couldn't say it better if I tried. There's so many reasons to live, but Hempel reminds you of one major one, which is to read work like this.
If you’ve been keeping track of my reviews thus far, you know I don’t rate very highly, but Amy Hempel’s Reasons to Live is the standard to which all other fiction books must rise.
I can’t say all that makes a five-star book, but I know that with Amy Hempel I was simultaneously glad and disappointed when she got popular.
Whatever equates to a five-star book, Reasons to Live is it for me.
i'll make a list of things that make this book better than anything that will ever make it into the top ten of the bestseller lists:[1] minimalist (or "miniaturist," if you ask hempel) writing style that is unique and moves at a rapid clip[2] emotional displacement[3] subtlety.
that last one is particularly important, since i think one of the more difficult challenges any writer faces when wanting to express a complex emotion is how to do it without coming across as manipulative or phony.
if you want to write, please read this book.
i'd rather we have 1,000 hempel clones than 1,000 jk rowling clones.
Death and tragedy haunt the short, short stories in Amy Hempel’s first story collection Reasons to Live (1985) like empty chairs at the table.
(Dogs trot through these stories in the comfortable and presumptuous way any well-loved pet wanders a home.) But, it boils down to the sentence for Hempel.
It’s as if she’s softly tickling her reader’s subconscious, light fingers tapping to awaken a profound consciousness of death and tragedy and the human condition.
The sentences she will repeat over and over in her mind for the sheer pleasure of reliving them.
I feel like an idiot for not appreciating Amy Hempel's Reasons to Live as much as expected to.
Especially Nashville Gone to Ashes and Beg, Sl Tog, Inc, Cont, Rep. Hempel's writing is feminine in a way that's it's not flowery, or (extremely) passive, but of feminine things like knitting, laundry and being a wife.
The stories were straight-forward; though, I wouldn't call them honest, as much I would would call them fictional glimpses into the lives of random women who are bored and have suffered some form of tragedy that they gloom upon on the inside, reflecting in infinity.
I'm used to appreciating more straight-forward writing, writing that takes more risks.
As with Carver, Hempel is only a minimalist when read shallowly and with certain misperceptions in mind about what detail consists of, and, most probably, already bent on affixing reductive labels on writers rather that appreciating their essence. It doesn't surprise me that she is more popular now than when this collection first came out: The quirky juxtapositions, the stand-up comic lines, and the staggering emotions under the surface that are suppressed in words but not affect, all seem so now, which means these stories were ahead of their time when first published in the early 1980's.
uuuggggghhhhhhhhhMy heart hurts.
This is actually the first section of her collected stories, so I'm still reading.
But this really took me by surprise and like Lindsay said, made me feel like I got hit by a truck.
It's harder for me to read and hear stories about parents and children, or would-be children, now that I have kids.
I'm too busy to feel this much.
My heart is too full to be flooded like this.
But here I go, continuing to read for more pain, more beauty, more flooding and fire and death.

The stories in this collection are short (which I do like), usually first-person, rarely name characters, and bounce around from action to memories.
They don't have "plots," so the stories just meander around vague situations and characters.I liked a few (maybe 3) of them okay, but most of the time I was confused, wondering what the point of each story was.
If the book hadn't been just 100 pages, I would have abandoned it.But to be clear-- I'm not much of a short story person and Hempel is adored by many who are.Find more book reviews at A Quick Red Fox.
The pieces in this collection are often so short that they veer towards gestural sketches. Rarely do we know things about Hempel's characters such as name, age, and sometimes even gender beyond a reasonable guess. However, the writing is so taut that these stories hum with energy and often build to a blow-like ending, painful and revelatory. While a few lines of dialogue come across as preciously precocious, these stories dazzle with their humor as well. Particular favorites were "In the Cemetery Where Al Jolson Is Buried" and "Pool Night."
Amy Hempel is why I want to write. She makes an art out of this botched and awkward language known as English. And even the most juvenile speaker of our language can appreciate the poetry of her style. The woman must spend hours scrutinizing every single word that she puts in a sentence. And for good reason. Her writing is simply flawless. She is a master in creating atmosphere. She paints moments in time better than a dream can. I'll forever aspire to create images like Amy Hempel can. So much can be said in so little. What an inspiration.
Funny and some detailed impressions on seemingly rudimentary daily items, but something was missing for me. I never got any moral from any story, except the one about the gal visiting the other gal in hospital, that one I really liked, and the monkey stories were grand! All together though I cant believe this is on the 1001 books to read before you die, but I am an insensitive guy so there is always that reason for missing the main point.
"In the Cemetery Where Al Jolson is Buried" is the only story I had previously read from this collection. Not surprising, since it's the most anthologized one. It is definitely the standout story, although I did also really love "Nashville Gone to Ashes" and "The Man in Bogota". These stories are very quiet, very subtle. Some were too subtle for me to really understand, but it also could be I just didn't spend enough time on them. Amy Hempel writes the way every college kid taking a creative writing class wishes they could write.
The Great: "Tonight is a Favor to Holly"; "Nashville Gone to Ashes"; "In the Cemetery"; "Beg, Sl Tog, Inc, Cont, Rep"; "Pool Night"; "Three Popes"The Pretty Darn Good: "When It's Human"; "Today Will Be a Quiet Day"The Forgettable: the restI'm not entirely sure what this tells you about a short fiction collection comprised of fifteen stories ranging from one-page to no more than twelve or thirteen in length.
I guess my point is that the stories FEEL like stories, all written by the same woman.
You're supposed to glean a greater series of events from a few little details, and it is a neat technique employed by others like Carver or Robison, but some of these stories come across as a little too obvious.
As a writerly technique, this approach is brilliant (if not overdone in the last 25 years); however, the stories do not bloom at all, and feel as if their entire purpose is to allow the writer a space to tease out the borderline details of a traditional narrative.
Fellow Amy Hempel crushing fanboy Chuck Palahniuk writes in his essay "Not Chasing Amy", "I once gave At the Gates of the Animal Kingdom: Stories to a friend and said, 'If you don't love this, we have nothing in common.'" Hempel has that effect on her readers: you don't come away from her stories having read them - you walk away a snarling, gauntlet throwing, lit-beast.Hempel's minimalist style feels anything but; her sentences are so packed with meaning and nuance.
You get the feeling that words aren't chosen, they're hewn, chiseled and polished from the essence of language.
The stories can be a bit hard to decipher, but there are emotional wallops that are amazing.
I particularly loved the story about the narrator's best friend dying from cancer.
It had one of the most profoundly beautiful endings I have read.
A few of the stories are a bit slight and/or abstract for my taste, and, according to Rick Moody in a wonderful preface, this becomes less the case as she moved on in her career.
He claims that each of her sets of stories are better than the last.
I look forward to reading the rest of her amassed collection of stories.
I was not prepared for Hempel the first time I picked up this collection from the library several years ago. Now I am and I was pretty much floored with every story, how she's able to encapsulate so much so economically, but not feel prosaic or forced. These stories just are, with all the multiple interpretations and manifestations the reader can project onto them. They are thematically strung together as well and fit so well together in the collection. "The Man in Bogota" is perhaps the most perfect, and the shortest, at less than 250 words.
i love short stories and i love how one can read them with such ease.
these stories were darker then i had anticipated and it took me longer to read.
i was sad reading them with the exception of the last story about a father.
the reason to live in these stories always seemed to be about death.
the juxtaposition between life and death and the choices people make in order to live or to die whether that be in the form of an abortion, succumbing to a house fire or illness.
a great book, probably more like 3 1/2 stars, but also less optimistic then i expected.
Anything short of five stars seemed inadequate. Beautiful, reductive, minimalist, economical, haunting, compelling--these works of, essentially, micro fiction (some stories are a page or two in length) brim with feeling and pathos and probably should not be read from start to finish in a single sitting, as I couldn't help but do, but instead savored, bit by bit, while remembering to come up for air. Floored me.
The stories toward the end started to resonate more with me, but in general I found myself recoiling a little from what felt to me like mannered and gimmicky story-telling. I know Hempel is widely admired and I'm not eager to check in with a dissenting opinion, but as a matter of personal taste, I don't react well to what feels like look-at-me writing. If that makes me cool to "experimental" writing, that's probably a factor in Hempel not being one of my favorites.
I read Reasons to Live on an airplane in what seemed like no time at all. This collection includes some of Hempel's most celebrated stories including "In the Cemetery where Al Jolson is Buried." While I think some of her later stories are stronger, all of the stories in this collection do showcase her careful sentence construction. Even the shortest story leaves a real emotional imprint on your mind.
The stories are brief and the language clear, so you would think this would be a quick read. But you'll want to make it last a week, so you can learn to breathe like this. There is some well of generousity here; all the characters feel forgiven. Not Gratuitously! Some stories were like poems -- playing off one key metaphor. Others reminded me of improv, and how you might start a scene with one "what if" and build it by believing it, and then keep it going by believing it elaborately.
I didn't want to like this book. All these short, seemingly unfinished stories... but, I did. I liked it. It filled my chest with that anxious, grieving, dreadful feeling. And, the characters made me laugh in spite of that.One example: A character that let her friend take the first sip of her Tab so HE would be the person getting that one calorie.
4.5 stars. Since I'm doing a paper on "the Harvest" I thought it'd be good to go through other short stories of Hempel. The book altogether is difficult to put down but that doesn't mean there wasn't anything saggy. Not each story is a "Harvest" but your eyes get to feast on the best kind of the minimalist literature. Very roots of Palahniuk's creativity.
I read In the Cemetery Where Al Jolson is Buried at some point in college or graduate school and thought it was great, but for some reason I didn't buy and finish this collection. This is the kind of book that makes me want to be a short story writer forever, no novels, no poetry, just these perfect stories. Plus, the narrators all like dogs.
a couple perfect stories, and some forgettable ones. worth reading.
I'm giving this five stars solely for the story (not that the rest weren't good) "In the cemetary where Al Jolson is buried". That story blew my mind.
