https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107773.Mercy
Mercy by Julie Garwood is such an elaborate story of lies and deceit, murder and trickery.
The story starts with meeting the sewing club.
A group that is working to skim funds any way they can to reach their financial goal.
When John's wife becomes to annoying for him, he arranges with the others to hit someone for a mercy killing.
The romance of Theo and Mike, now known as Michelle, is adorable.
I laughed at the way the family acted about Theo being in town.
However, when the story got intense the writing was just as good in the serious and dangerous telling.
Ms. Traister does a wonderful job on the southern Louisiana Cajun accents.
I am sure they would be much thicker in Real Life, but they do need to be understandable on audio.
I really felt Michelle’s father came alive in the audio, much more than on the printed page.
I think Michelle’s voice as a little girl didn’t sound childish enough, but why quibble?
I think most people do this in Real Life.
I also didn’t even think to put Theo Buchanan, attorney for the Justice Department, with a Boston accent, but **smacks forehead** surely he’d have one.
I love Julie Garwood! In this book we have a little girl in the Bayou who grows up to be a brilliant surgeon. And we have a lawyer who has lost his passion. In the middle of their love story is murder and mayhem.  A really good book, but skip the audio. The narrator tries to do a Cajun accent and fails. Bless her heart.😁
I'm revisiting one of my favorite Julie Garwood series, I've forgotten how much I love Michelle "Mike" Renard and Theo Buchanan. Such a great read! The narrator Christina Traister for this book does a fantastic job! I'm not going to write a detailed review since there are many great reviews posted here on Goodreads already. But, I will say I loved this book!!! *Originally read: June 2011
Descriptive setting.This book's got Garwood's signature sense of humor and some of her most heartwarming characters.
Some vivid scenes when the Sowing Club and their accomplice The Monk hunted down Michelle and Theo in the twisty-turny swamp.
Memorable, poignant, and vivid scene when Michelle performs immediate surgery on a critically wounded little patient.Textured secondary characters: I got a kick out of Big Daddy Jake Renard, Michelle's managing, shrewd, and softhearted father.
Also loved John Paul Renard, her antisocial big brother, so reminiscent of grumpy old Brodick, in Ransom.
Well done romantic suspense.
Engaging characters.
Neat things happened.I read the physical book a few years ago and just now listened to the audiobook.
I had forgotten some of the events, and I’m glad because it made the current read better - not knowing.
I loved the first scene that John Paul was in -- what an intriguing character.
Suspense was good.
And no stupidity.AUDIOBOOK NARRATOR:Christina Traister did a great job.
She used a weird accent for the cajun characters.
Swearing language: strong including religious swear words, but rarely used.
Sexual language: mild with the f-word once.
Genre: romantic suspense.
Dr. Michelle Renard returns home to her hometown of Bowen, Louisiana to open a clinic for the small town.
He decided to take some time off after his recuperation and took her father, Big Daddy Jake, up on his offer for some great fishing.
Garwood has crafted an excellent story of romance, suspense and out and out hilarity in this second installment of the Buchanan-Renard series.
Michelle and Theo make a great couple and the people of Bowen work hard to make their relationship a reality.
It's well written with great dialogue and perfect timing.
Moreover, as he decides to investigate and help her,the town people start thinking of him as a coach and everyone wants his legal advice (all thanks to big daddy Jake's boasting) ,ferocious alligators swamp the fertile land (and snakes too!), and he soon realizes Jake might be matchmaking him with his daughter..The secondary plot is of a well executed murder by four individuals known as "The Sowing Club" with the help of "The Ghost", aka the silent killer Monk- and a letter mailed by the victim to Mike connects the two stories.Entertaining read filled with suspense, humor and love, this completely captivated me since early on and the mystery was worth the wait, even though the bad guy technically got away (but we have so many more books to go!).
Theo Buchanan, an attorney for the Justice Department, is in New Orleans, attending a charity black-tie affair, when Dr Michelle "Mike" Renard sees him and notices he is not feeling good.
Well, while in the hospital, Theo meets Michelle's dad and gets invited to the small town of Bowen, LA to go fishing.
Theo takes him up on it.
Meanwhile, a group called the Sowing Club has discovered that a package with incriminating evidence against them was sent to Michelle and they will do anything it takes to get it back!Theo and Michelle were perfect for each other.
I really enjoyed this book, it's about Theo Buchanan the brother of FBI Agent Nick Buchanan from book one Heartbreaker, and god was it ever funny.
The banter between him and Michelle (Dr. Mike) Renard were priceless.
Oh and good lord could you get a better character than Big Daddy, well there was Noah and Noah to me is a priceless character, and I greatly enjoyed seeing him again.
I liked that Theo wasn't broken, he had scars but he wasn't broken and neither was Michelle, it was a given to both of them that they would end up in bed and they fought as two normal people with scars would but it wasn't over done or silly.
I listened to this as an audiobook and it was a great listen. It had very endearing characters with sweet chemistry. Also the plot was strong and it kept my interest as well as gave me a few laughs. I am not a huge romantic suspense fan, but this Garwood story I would definitely recommend.The narrator did wonderful job with both Boston and Cajun accents. She was very easy to listen too.
This is my favorite of the Garwood Suspense books. Theo is definately my hero. I love the way he reacts to the situation in the Louisiana backwoods. Michelle and her family are great. Their crazy personality's and the local element have you laughing, but the hot tension between Michelle and Theo is terrific. A Great book!
He would certainly make for a very yummy, broody hero which we girls in the world of romance tend to swoon over.Mercy is a novel that is very highly recommended for fans of Julie Garwood and fans of romantic suspense.I will finish off my review with one of the sweetest moments in the story which takes place right after Theo and Michelle first make love, moments that just took my breathe away.(view spoiler)[ She pulled the sheet up as she rolled onto her back and closed her eyes.
The heroine, Mike, wasvery smart (she's a doctor) very beautiful (of course) very kind and altruistic (she'sgoing back to practice in her little dinky old town).
The hero, Theo, is handsome,smart (he can take down the unscrupulous owners of the local mill between breakfast and lunch) , kind and altruistic (he will use his own money to buy a fence so a little boy can play in his backyard and the alligator won't eat him).
Not only does the author stretch the limits of reality,but her characters are perfect to the point of nausea.The mystery part of the book started out to be quite interesting.
Exciting and passionate, this a romantic suspense novel you’ll kill to get your hands on!Justice Department attorney and Boston native Theo Buchanan is at the highlight of his career.
Which means the Sowing Club will stop at nothing to reclaim those documents, even if they have to eliminate Theo and Michelle....permanently.
As they work to discover who is after them Theo and Michelle begin to develop a very close relationship.
Both worry if they can actually stand a future together when they live worlds apart.Truly an awesome and stunning read, Mercy by Julie Garwood is not a book to be look at lightly.
Loved this book! Lots of action, mystery, and a little romance. Great storyline!
And that's why I didn't care much for the romance.Jake and John Paul were quite interesting.
And Monk, one of the bad guys was interesting as well.
Which makes me want to read the next book, since its John Paul's book, with Monk still the bad guy.Noah also makes an appearance which only made me like him more, I want to reach his book quickly.Overall not a bad read, but not enough suspense.
There wasn't much about this book I didn't enjoy. The characters were truly likable, with both of them coming from decent hard-working families instead of some tortured past. The suspense plot was well-done and kept me guessing on a few things. I thought Michelle was a little stubborn, but there were no "big misunderstandings" in the plot. I look forward to the next in the series about Michelle's reclusive brother, John Paul.
Girl meets boy. Boy throws up on girl and ruins her very expensive dress. Boy needs surgery. Girl does surgery. ♥♥ L-O-V-E ♥♥. There is also someone else out to get her as well for what they think she knows or has. Good story. I give it ★★★★'s.
I think I get how this series work. Gun wearing hero. Insta love.Long legged heroine. Who is so beautiful but doesn't know it of course. One main criminal/mystery story and one minor. I already picked up next one because I was intrigued with the hero who is side character in this book. Will I continue with the series after.... I really don't see the point...Copy / paste ....same pattern.
3,5 *
Ok, now I DO wanna be a bitch. Waste of time and money. The author definitely should stick to historical romance.
His family is worried about him as he's pulled away from them, but after falling sick at a party and being treated by Michelle "Mike" Renard, he suddenly sees the sort of passion in her that's long gone out in him.
Michelle is such a great characters.
Her brother John Paul is a bit of a mystery, but the entire Renard family is fiercely loyal and protective of each other.
It's so easy to fall in love with these two, and the locale is great.
Theo Buchanan, workaholic brother of Nick from Heartbreaker, gets his own story.Having ignored pain 
Unfortunately, instead of relaxing, Theo ends up protecting Michelle from a killer while trying to locate a package that may have the clue to why someone wants her dead.MERCY, Julie Garwood's second contemporary thriller, is an action-packed, page-turner filled with lovable characters and scenes that are so descriptive, you may actually hear the alligator snapping in the distance.Though some of the characters, like Big Daddy, may be a bit over-the-top with their antics, Garwood managed to develop them so you cannot help but fall in love with them.As with her previous novel, Garwood allowed her hero to have flaws, including a workaholic personality, a love for junk food, and his less than accurate shooting skills.
The characters are as large as life, crafted with a professional pen and an author's humor.
From coaching a football team to emergency surgery in a backdrop of crime, scam, intrigue and wonderful twist that most readers would have even thought a twist was necessary or was coming - but it made the novel.
I found this book and to be intriguing and thrilling, but what really made was the humor and the love story.
Without spoiling anything - I must say that the addition of Louise was cute and absolutely a good component of the novel giving veracity to what life must be like in the Bayou.
Set in a podunk town in the bayou of Louisiana, the cadence of speech and sayings were really fun.
The author went to the trouble of making the people of this small town likable, and delved into what a tight community small towns can be.
You're not just seeing a bunch of rednecks living in the swamp.
You are seeing kind and generous people.
It helps when an author makes the surrounding characters as much fun as the main characters.
The chemistry between the Hero and Heroine was great, as were their separate personalities.
Garwood is great at spinning tales from different perspectives so they interweave seamlessly.
great mystery!
2nd in a series and it surpassed the first novel.
there was one big surprise for me, revealed at the end, that taught me that in a mystery one should assume nothing (talking about Dallas, here - and you'll know what i mean, if you've read it too)i'm happy i read this one.
i may go on in the series, i liked it that much.
they'd be all: "Thank God she died - this chick was dark and crazy!Disclaimer: i'm not dark.
also, crazy is a matter of degree.
Me encantan las historias que ocurren en pueblos pequeños, y este es genial.En el libro anterior el pueblacho de Laurant no me convenció, pero este tiene un encanto en sus raíces que enamora.
Está genial que Theo haya visto su potencial.Estoy medio enamorada de Jake Renard, ese hombre es tan lindo.Le pongo 4,5/5 porque todavía no compro el paquete de Me-siento-enamorada-a-pesar-de-haberlo-conocido-ayer, pero la relación de ellos es muy divertida, entretenida, simpática, sus idas y venidas me han hecho reir de lo lindo.La única pega es que el 25% de este libro se basa en la descripción y desarrollo de los villanos.
More so than I did "Shadow Dance" and maybe a smidge more than "Slow Burn".Solid storyline, fairly good romance and characters - I LOVED John Paul - and it kept me wanting to keep reading.
I'm not often surprised by that kind of thing.
There were a couple of details I thought were neglected, but they didn't kill the story.I'm quite looking forward to reading the next book in the unofficial set, Killjoy, which features John Paul.
He's a fascinating character and I can't wait to see how things play out for him.
