https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/289866.The_Dot_and_the_Line
Not as well-known as Norman Juster's The Phantom Tollbooth, but much more to-the-point.This book concerns a line.
Our line is trying to get the attention of the dot he loves.
The dot falls in love with a squiggle.It is, in short, a classic love triangle.
back to the review.The book's point is about the line's self-concept and self-esteem.
Give it to kids and read it yourself if you're feeling down or lost.
And reading it with my girlfriend always reminds us how to share ourselves with each other.
This is a short children's book from the author of the spectacular children's classic The Phantom Tollbooth which tells the love story between a Dot and a Line. It is simply magic and your kids will ask you to read it to them time and time again. Perfect for a bedtime story due to its short length, it is a wonderful addition to your kid's bookshelf.
The only book I can think of that is similar is Flatland by Edwin Abbot - but this book has much more romance.
Aw, come on, Line.
Why didn't you outgrow Dot?
I finished it with similar feelings to how I feel about Shel Silverstein's sweet story of codependency The Missing Piece Meets the Big O--a nagging suspicion that I was supposed to find it charming and romantic but instead feeling pity and a mild revulsion to the dynamic.Why everyone should read this anyway: (a) it's Norton Juster, (b) it involves math jokes, and (c) what do you need a (c) for?
It's Norton Juster and makes math jokes.
Line's friends were concerned about "how terribly thin and drawn he had become"?
Author of the The Phantom Tollbooth has written a tongue-in-cheek love story, complete with mandatory love triangle: a straight (and boring?) line loves a beautiful dot who fancies herself in love with the madly captivating squiggle. What is the straight line to do to win his lady fair? That is the question!Through all sorts of clever and maybe painfully not-so-clever but still cute puns, Juster spins his mathematical tale. Unique. Fun. Illustrated throughout and a quick read. Could be read to children but not really appreciated until one is a little older.
A wedding present from one of Tyler's friends and, I must admit, absolutely perfect for him!
;-> It's a bit off-beat, quirky, slightly silly yet at the same time being very witty and thoughtful--while managing to be a good romance.
The pictures are great and fit well with the text, adding more humor.
It's a very quick read and, while I'm not sure I would recommend it to absolutely everyone--if you're in the mood for a fun and surprisingly well-written little tale about all the ways in which a Line finds his true innermost nature to woo his beloved Dot (who is enamored with the Squiggle) then do be sure to give it a whirl.
Genius.That would be my one word review, but for those of you who want more I would call this one of the best picture books I've ever read. The story is both simple and complex, much like mathematics. It's the story of a line who's in love with a dot and the plot is filled with all the agony of unrequited love for the entire 80 pages, which will take less than 15 minutes to read. But these will be the most amusing 15 minutes of your day as you explore the theme of love through lower mathematics.
I love it. It's for adults and children. My mother, me, an 8-year-old boy, and a 5-year-old boy all enjoyed this at the same time. My husband even chimed in from across the room as I was reading it aloud that it sounded like that Phantom Tollbooth book. Sure did!Readers should know it is a picture-book length. Plenty of words and illustrations to enjoy, but not a chapter book. Our edition is a small size for a picture book.Entirely enjoyable.
A book I wish someone had read to me when I was a child. A cute love story between a dot, a squiggle and a line where mathematics and romance meet. This was made to a short animation film. Find it here

A Love Story for the Ages!
Her husband (currently a Ph.D student in mathematics) had given it to her for Valentine's Day. I don't think our kids got it, but we were sure laughing hard.Okay, I had to come back and edit this review after I read some of the other reviews saying how this sends a terrible message.
That terrible message being that we should never have to change for someone else to like us.
But really, would I be interested in or want to marry some guy who lives with his parents, never went to college, plays video games all day, and works at McDonald's?

Loved the fanciful/mathematical drawings with lines - also liked the word selection -I did not like the way the line changed himself for the dot - although it could be argued that the line went on a journey of self discovery.The problem is, the dot was not worthy of the line to begin with - and in the end, the line has a great depth of character, and the dot is - a dot.Still, a very cute picture book -
Witty and true to heart! Because good people can and will fall for selfish balls.
Cute and clever story with a good message. Instead of trying to be like someone else, be the best You can be! Whether you like Math or not, I think everyone could relate to this book somehow.
A poignant, absolutely wonderful tale.
“The Dot and the Line” by Norton Juster is one such book.
“The Dot and the Line” as the title suggests is about a dot and a line.
It is about a line who loves a dot who loves a squiggle and does not think much of the line.
I don’t even know if I can place it any single genre as it deserves to be a part of so many.
“The Dot and the Line” is the kind of book you must read with your better-half or loved one for the impact to be doubled.
More of a picture book than anything else.
It's by the author of  The Phantom Tollbooth, which I LOVE, but this one is written as though for an even younger audience (I qualify with the "as though" because I think it's really meant for adults but is laid out like a toddler's picture book) and is mostly just silly, although sweet.
It's about a line that falls in love with a dot, but the dot is in love with a squiggle.
The line teaches himself to bend into various other shapes to impress her, and of course wins her over in the end.
This is probably one of the cutest math humor books I've read.I love the concept for the little "love triangle" and how complex but simple the book can be, the only thing I would have to complain about is the "moral" of the story.*Spoiler* he does win the girl in the end, but instead he should have ended up with someone who actually deserves him, not just randomly like "wow you impressed me so much we should get together now".Overall great kids book and totally recommend for both children and adults :D
Recently I had occasion to re-read one of my most favorite children’s book, Norton Juster’s The Phantom Tollbooth. Out of curiosity, I checked the Internet to see if he ever wrote anything else & I was pleasantly surprised that he had done a picture book entitled The Dot & the Line: A Romance in Lower Mathematics. It’s a delightful, although very short read (took me about 10 minutes or so), with quirky humor, visual puns and word play which extends to the author blurb. I re-read it several times to enjoy the illustrations.
By the same author as my childhood favorite The Phantom Tollbooth, this is a picture book that Juster illustrated himself, although it also includes some stock photographs. The story, likely inspired at least partially by Flatland, concerns a line who's in love with a dot, but she prefers an uncouth scribble. Eventually, the line wins the dot's love by learning to form angles, leading up to a punch line presented as a moral. It's a quite clever work that was made into an animated short directed by Chuck Jones.
There's no denying the charm of this book, even for people not enamored with Mathematics. More than that it actually makes a good Philosophic and Scientific point. More than that, the illustrations are often absolutely lovely and copying them would probably make for a really satisfying doodle while you're bored in Math class. However, part of me can't get over how judgmental the characters are toward each other! I felt certain the author must have been British given how snarky, calloused, and ill-wishing the very protagonists were--but no, he's American. Humph.
I just read this short little book by the author of the great The Phantom Tollbooth, about a line's unrequited love for a dot and how he wins her over. Like that book, this is on the surface for kids (although for younger than Phantom Tollbooth), but there's more going on, in particular the same atrocious (in a good way) use of puns ("'She is more beautiful than any straight line I've seen', he sighed..Even allowing for his feelings they felt this was stretching a point", "Moral: To the vector belongs the spoils"), and good points about drawing and creativity.
This book made me smile. I liked how the Line solved his problems, but at the same time, I thought that the Dot was a little lacking in luster and personality. The illustrations were pretty cool as well. I'd recommend this book for math majors or people who just love math in general because then you would get a kick out of this book.*Taken from my book reviews blog: http://reviewsatmse.blogspot.com/2008...
I first encountered "The Dot and the Line" as a kid, watching the MGM cartoon adaptation. The short film is a very faithful - if not direct - adaptation of this work.Without spoiling much, this is basically a love triangle expressed in geometry. The artwork is brilliant; the turns of phrase are funny and witty. The message rings true and clear for children and adults. Cute, adorable, and meaningful. Perhaps the most charming book I ever read.
Very cute mathematical romantic fable, complete with clever moral.
Funny punny little book from Norton Juster, author of my very favorite book The Phantom Tollbooth. I love the 60's graphic visual style too. I wish we had a copy in good condition, but alas my library only has a super beat up first edition.
You want to be serious, this book provides a great life lesson. If you are in the mood for giggles, this book is very funny.
i love this author - his humour is my humourwish he wrote moreparticularly liked the summaries and the About Me
