https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/255262.The_Individual_Psychology_of_Alfred_Adler
I already knew Jung very well and Freud pretty well, but Alfred Adler was pretty much just a name from the early psychoanalytic movement.
Both Freud and Jung were grand theorists, albeit in very different ways.
Indeed, years later I worked for an agency which employed Adlerian techniques with a population of supposedly psychotic adolescent boys and found it to work well.Finally, it is noteworthy that Adler differs from Freud and Jung in another way as well.
I think that "individual psychology" has the best theory of personality,better than Freud and Jung,Adler was much more explenatory clear about things that Freud didn't focused.Well the best theory yes,but not the best therapy.Anyway there is no perfect therapy.
Unlike Freud, however, Adler believed that neurosis is caused by socially useless attempts to compensate for inferiority feelings.
This is true, he argued, on both a physiological and psychological level (indeed, his early work had much more to do with feelings of inferiority resulting from faulty organs, whereas he reversed the order in his later work).Compensating well, for Adler, involves cultivating what he refers to as "social feeling" or "social interest," and involves taking one's focus off of one's own inferiority and instead throwing oneself into contributing to the welfare of others.
This took me forever to get through. Though I'm still in love with most of the basic Adlerian ideas and principles, there were definitely some dated ideas in this book (mainly when Adler was making comparisons with Freud). It seems fitting though that I finished this the day after the Adlerian Play Therapy workshop that I went to. I'm pretty sure that when I finish my program next year, I will still basically be an Adlerian at heart.
Skaitant į lietuvių kalbą išverstas paties Adlerio knygas labai sunku (jeigu apskritai įmanoma) sulipdyti vienalytį Individualiosios Psichologijos teorijos paveikslą.
Kartais galima netgi pamiršti, jog autorius kalba tam tikros psichologinės asmenybės teorijos rėmuose, o ne tiesiog dalina šiais laikais pop-psich literatūroje nuvalkiotus gyvenimiškus, buitinius patarimus.
Tie patys to paties autoriaus žodžiai įgauna visai kitokį atspalvį ir nuosekliai skaitant šią knygą kaip mozaika susiklijuoja tolygus ir vientisas individualiosios psichologijos teorijos paveikslas su visais jo intakais, ištakomis bei sąsajomis su tuometinėmis psichologinėmis pažiūromis.
Tiems, kas paklausti "kas yra IP teorija?" arba "kas yra Alfredas Adleris?" norėtų atsakyti į šiuos klausimus, rekomenduoju pasiryžti šiai knygai.
Say yayınlarından okudum. Türkçeye çevirilirken ne yazık ki her iki yayınevinde de kısaltılmış.Adler'ı Freud'dan daha haklı bulduğumu söyleyebilirim.
By now describing goals and the future as fictional, he expressed in effect that this future was not the objective future but a subjective future as experienced in the present.
Although the objective factors of heredity and environment, organ inferiorities, and past experiences are utilized by the individual in the process of forming his final goal, the latter is still a fiction, a fabrication, the individual's own creation.
Adler was not aware of the term "soft" determinism, nor of Jaspers' distinction between external, objective causation and internal, subjective causation ( see pp.
I finally found all the answers that I've been looking for. Freud and Jung are kids compared to Adler.
He listed a number of traits of Freud's theory which he adapted for his Individual Psychology: (1) 'The affective or mental attitudes in a dream indicate more nearly its real meaning than do the purely figurative or verbal elements'; (2) 'The distinction between the manifest and the latent contents of the dream.
They employ the same mental dynamisms as are used in slips of the tongue, daydreams, fantasies and other waking behavior.' Adler referred to insomnia as only occurring in situations where the individual is confronted with a situation he is not prepared for, and thought that dreams only occur in those whom to some degree try to 'escape reality' as they don't feel they can accept it.
After "Understanding Human Nature", this is the second book of Adler I read.
In this book, I have learned that Adler is the founder of the school of individual psychology which is a kind of criticising of psychoanalysis of Freud in some points.
Although Adler had studied with Freud for some years, then he started to be suspicious with psychoanalysis and broke with Freud.
Thus, Adler lived many problems, but again he persisted in his theory.
Anyway, this book became a good preliminary at the point of knowing Adler and his theory.
Gives gist of theories from Adler, arguably one of the top 3 clinical psychologists ever born. Must read for those researching the question- what is the basic need of man?
All you need to know about my buddy, Alfred and his work!
http://www.idefix.com/kitap/bireysel-...
My Bible in my younger years...
My favorite is "Striving for Superiority". Superb studies and insight to individual psychology.
I am going to read this book....i think I can read this book...
