https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1209527.Portrait_of_Jennie
Robert Nathan imbued this story with some intangible magic that either touches our heart when it is still open to love and romance, or falls flat and shames us because our heart has already moved into winter, and can no longer embrace its romantic purity.While it is somewhat more protracted than many of Nathan’s other wonderful stories, it is still incredibly lovely, with passages and sentiments so touching they are never forgotten by the reader.
I love reading books where I have seen the movie and anytime I see one I add it to my list.
First in the movie Jennie was only seen by Eben so it seemed like she was more of a unreality to others but in the book she is seen and felt.
Also in the movie she was more out of sync to Eben's time, but in the book especially the ending it was clear to be around that time.
I loved the book more than the movie which is a beloved classic of mine.
I am pleased to agree that Mr. Nathan is a wonderful writer.PORTRAIT OF JENNIE is probably his most famous book, owing to a very high-profile motion picture made of it from the Selznick studios.
As is so often the case, the movie is no substitute for the book.This is a romantic fantasy in a similar style of later writer Richard Matheson's BID TIME RETURN (also made into a film called SOMEWHERE IN TIME.) If you enjoyed Matheson's tale, you owe it to yourself to seek out this book.A struggling artist finds an ideal subject for his canvas in a young girl he meets one evening in the park in New York City.
Seit ich vor zwanzig Jahren zum ersten Mal William Dieterles Verfilmung von "Portrait of Jennie" sah, übt diese sonderbare Geschichte noch immer die gleiche Faszination auf mich aus.Allerdings macht mir dieser Umstand es auch schwer, die literarische Vorlage angemessen zu beurteilen.
Dennoch übt die melancholische Handlung ihren Reiz auf mich aus und wenn sich Eben an Jennys trauriges Lied "Nobody knows" erinnert, spukte mir prompt die Melodie im Kopf.
First line - There is such a thing as hunger for more than food, and that was the hunger I fed on.There was a song by Nat King Cole inspired by this story - A portrait of Jennie (1948). And more surprisingly, one by  Madness . Also, the film is there on YouTube too - I kid you not. RE-VISIT 2015 is via the filmhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Df-zi...
He’s poor, never pays rent on time, and can barely sell any of his paintings around the city.
He’s strolling through the park one day, and here he meets a young girl named Jennie.
She also talks about having a best friend named Cecelia.
Later, Eben asks Jennie when her friend died, and she says two years ago.
Eben paints a huge portrait of Jennie this time, and once done, she says she’ll come visit him again soon and that he should wait for her.
Eben is able to sell his portrait of Jennie to the museum in New York.
A lot of people seem to want more explanation from this story: how does Jennie show up in Eben's life at different points?
If those questions were addressed and answered this would be a different book.
We're just supposed to go on the emotional journey with Eben and Jennie.
From the very beginning, in the young Jennie's song we're told that: "The wind blows/ the sea flows/ and nobody knows".
The true significance of those lyrics isn't learned until the end of the book, but we're told right from the start not to expect explanations.
I've had this gem of a book on my shelf for years, and I finally read it. Great story.
I first read this book years ago and wondered if it would hold up to a reread. It did although I did not remember the ending. The writing is poetic and the story is haunting. I wish I knew where I heard about this book originally. Now I need to pursue some of his other books!
Years ago, I saw an old black and white film on television, called Portrait of Jennie.
Recently, I found out that the film was based on a novel by Robert Nathan, so I decided to read it, and I am glad that I did.
I was not surprised to learn that Robert Nathan wrote poetry as well as prose, for his short novel Portrait of Jennie is a poetic work.
Portrait of Jennie is a powerful love story.
Its supernatural element high lights how disturbing love is when it comes out of nowhere to upset and change the routine of ordinary life.
An intriguing take on time travel. The whole "true love across time" trope seems well covered at this point, but "Portrait of Jennie," coming out in 1940, could be one of the first times it appeared. Unfortunately, however, I found the book boring. I feel it would have been better as a short story.
Economically and elegantly told in only 125 pages; Nathan captures an ethereal and wistful mood.
The Time Traveler's Wife has nothing on this 1939 novel."How beautiful the world is...It was never made for anything but beauty--whether we lived now, or long ago."
I saw the movie many years ago and remembered loving it and finding it quite intriguing.
A little girl from another time keeps crossing paths with an impoverished artist trying to find his Mojo.
Every time he sees her she is alone and seems to be several years older.
After a brief while she is an alluringly beautiful adult and he asks her if she'll sit for a portrait.
She does and that portrait makes him famous and wealthy.
His way with words is almost Capote-esque and the story is so fascinating and compelling I read this book in two sittings.
Beautiful, romantic, and melancholy. Much better than the movie.
I find it interesting that there seems so much ink spelled on discussing whether this is a ghost story, or a time-travelling romance.
But the idea of a time-traveler, a ghost, a haunting is really one in the same.
We have a person here, Jennie, who is from another time, and has ended up in the present, somehow, of 1930s New York City and Cape Cod. In the hands of a lesser writer, this story could so easily fall apart.
A few stories could be as true, simple or haunting as this one.“Summer is the worst time of all to be alone.
I bought Portrait of Jennie around the same time that I bought The Time Traveler's Wife because I read some reviews of the latter that said "This isn't your parents' Portrait of Jennie" and so I was curious what my parents' Portrait of Jennie was.
She becomes something like a muse for him, and he comes to realize that she's visiting him from various points in time, while the Jennie in his time would actually be about the same age as him.
Jennie seems to know that she's headed toward tragedy from the beginning, and the sad end somewhat parallels The Time Traveler's Wife, although the latter was much more complex and intricate.
I do not know why this book has always gripped me. I first read it when I was rather young and had a more romantic view, but even as an older person there is something that holds me to the story. Nathan wastes no words...every scene and every syllable count.
I really enjoyed this little book. I especially reading about the main character being an artist and the difficulties of being creative. I always loved the movie and I was curious about the book, it did not disappoint. I was pleasantly surprised by the spiritual references.
A favorite book. I reread it from time to time.
Classic Robert Nathan!A haunting and romantic tale where true love transcends time and space.I highly recommend.
Hard to classify. This is a short and sweet love story with supernatural aspects. Worth the read.
Highly recommended
A charming fantasy romance and one of my all-time favorites.
Beautifully written, a love story that spans time itself.
This was a surreal story about time travel written in 1940. A fun read. It's somewhat creepy and the reader is left with no answers.
I cried like a baby.
The sweet and beautiful version of The Time Traveler's Wife.Originally read in 1972.
It's let down by a lack of explanation, but it's a sweet book that I bet inspired a lot of people.Eben is a struggling artist in the city.
Spoiler-(view spoiler)[The Jennie Eben sees are actually slices of the real Jennie taken somehow out of time.
As Eben encounters the girl that grows, the real Jennie is currently in France, on her way to meet a sad destiny.
(hide spoiler)] It's a wonderful idea, but without the explanation being anything more than oblique (view spoiler)[There's a subtext from Gus the cabbie that maybe God is trying to show Eben something.
In the hands of a better writer, these thematic elements might have made for a very good story.* Star-crossed (time traveling?) love: Robert Nathan's interesting conceit doesn't work because he doesn't explain it.
It's like, wow, I'm already an emo starving artist; maybe I'll make my life as miserable as possible by falling in love with a ghost/time traveler who shows up in the form of a little girl so I can complain about it to everyone!
Oh, and I'm going to yell at my nosy landlady because she implied that I'm a pedophile when clearly, I'm not, because Jennie's actually a ghost/time traveler, remember?* The artistic mind: I did not believe for a moment that Eben is an artist.
