https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/867650.The_Little_Red_Hen
Another great story  which I had heard before but didn't know the name. Now I have properly read it. I loved the story a lot. It is soo beautifully written. You are probably familiar with the idea I think. STORY IN SHORT  Every day the Little Red Hen collects worms for her children to feed. One day she accidentally finds a seed of wheat during her search for worms. She doesn't know what it is but she finds out that it is a seed of wheat and can be grown into a wheat and can be made into bread a
STORY IN SHORT   Every day the Little Red Hen collects worms for her children to feed.
She doesn't know what it is but she finds out that it is a seed of wheat and can be grown into a wheat and can be made into bread after.On the barnyard where she lives, lives a Rat, a Pig and a Cat also.
Red Hen wants to grow the wheat.
It is difficult for her to manage because of her children's responsibility but she manages to grow the wheat and makes the bread out of it.
But whenever she asked everyone to help in growing the wheat or cutting the wheat or making the bread nobody was ready to help.
One day the little red hen finds a grain of wheat and asks the other farmyard animals to help her with the various processes involved in growing it like the planting, harvesting and threshing of the grain and then the milling the wheat into flour and baking of the flour into bread.
Eventually the little red hen sees the product of her process complete in that the bread is freshly baked and ready to eat.
I enjoyed this book as I thought it was interesting seeing the process in relation to how bread is baked.
Hilarious. Borrowed it from my little nephew. Still enjoy it after lo those many years ago from my childhood.
The Duck, Cat and Dog all said “not I” so the little Red Hen did all the work.
When the bread was done and the animals smelt the appetizing aroma she finally said, “Who will eat the bread, I will” shouted her friends “I will” said the little Red Hen and so she did.I first read this story as part of a farming topic to my year 2 class.
The little Red Hen is an excellent book for children interaction.
The continuous repetition makes it easy for them to follow and participate.This book can also be used as a literacy lesson as part of creative writing task.
It is always a good idea to demonstrate to our children the spirit of giving and helping.
This book shows the adverse effects from friends who aren't willing to help when asked.
Helping others builds character and initially may be met with unseen rewards, in the book's case - some tasty bread.
Once a child is thanked or hugged when they help others they get to experience something possibly greater than a tangible reward - a sense of pride and wholesome goodness which is extremely gratifying.
Each time I read this book I can't help but think of Capt.
The hen does most of the work around the house as the other animals are very lazy.During the story, the hen decides to make a loaf of bread.
At each stage of the bread-making process, she requests help from the other animals.
Each animal refuses to help throughout the whole process as they are too busy doing what they enjoy doing, leaving then hen to do all of the work.
I really was not a fan of this Golden Book when I was growing up.
This is a nice book, that is good for reading with a friend.- Ms. Togeretz
This book was far more moralistic than I remember it being as a kid. Still a wonderful and enduring children's book.
They all answer "not I." and she plants the grain of wheat, tends it and harvests it, all the while the pig, cat and duck say "not I" and want nothing to do with any of the work.
The Hen bakes bread with the wheat she has harvested and the pig, cat and duck smell it and when the hen asks "Who will eat the bread?" they all come running saying " I will!" since they did not want to help plant it, tend it ,harvest it or bake it the hen tells them all no and eats it all herself.
I like how the Red Hen gave several chances for her friends to help her but they refused.
I do not like how the Duck, the Goose, the Cat, and the Big did not help the Red Hen to plant the grain of wheat, reap it, carry it, and dough, but when was the time to eat it, they came.Read aloud for children from K to three years old.
It helps them learn about types of animals like Duck, Goose, Cat, and the Big. Also, they will learn how to plant wheat and make bread from it, and what materials they need to plant it.
The Little Red Hen is a classic children's book which teaches many life lessons.
There is no moral of the story stated in the book; but the principles come across as the story unfolds.
The same group refuses to aid her as she processes the grain through various stages of development.
When the time comes to eat the fruit of her labors, everyone wants to participate at that point in the process.
However, those who did not work, were not allowed to reap the rewards of her efforts.
Work ethic, responsibility, and reaping what has been sown earlier are all lessons which are taught in this short story.
This book is suitable for early years and Key Stage 1 children.
The story follows Little Red Hen and her quest to make bread without the help of her lazy friends, the rat, the cat and the pig.
Children were engaged throughout the story, and loved acting out the different animals in the story.
The story is good for topics such as plants and growing.
The children especially liked the ending of the story, where the Hen, after all her hard work eats the bread ‘all by herself!’ The book has a good morale, and shows children how hard work does pay off.
This was the first LIttle Golden Book I bought for my now five-year-old son. One of the reasons I bought it because I remembered using it for a story time at the library. Of all the versions of The Little Red Hen, this one really shows how much work the hen did between the finding of the grain of wheat and the eating of the bread. Even my son understands the injustice of the hen doing all the work, and the other animals expecting to eat the bread. The other reason I bought it was for the delightfully timeless illustrations.
This book worked very well for me in a reception class, with the children really being able to understand that the way the other characters refused to help the little red hen was wrong. A fantastic story for early years debating as some children will believe the little red hen should have shared with the others, while other children will vehemently argue the point that she should not have to as no one helped her to make it in the first place. Beautiful illustrations and a fun read for adults and children.
My son read a readers' theater version as his homework tonight and it is a great story for young readers to practice reading with expression. And of course, the ending always causes some giggles but the message is so true...you can't expect to get anything good if you don't put in the work to make the good thing happen.
A classic capitalist fable, only slightly altered from the original. Too bad my daughter doesn't seem to understand why the hen is "being mean" and "not sharing." However, this has remained one of her most requested stories for a year, and she loves to say all of the "Not I" parts, and she is slowly starting to get the point.
This is a good book because it teaches that if you want something, you should always help to get it. Participation is key in life and children will learn this while they read this book.
Summary: The story tells of the little red hen demonstrating hard work and strength to get what she wants.
Evaluation: The plot of The Little Ren Hen is important because it teaches the lesson of hard work and to some extent a lesson about friendship.
The illustrations are important because it helps visualize and for the reader to be more understanding of why Hen didn't share her bread with any of her friends.
It also shows that you don't want friends who are going to treat you they way they treated Hen. Rather than help her out a few times so everyone could share the bread they decided to watch.
But when it is time to eat the bread all the animals want to help her eat it but she explains that "Who will help me plant the seeds, who will help me cut down the wheat, who will help me grind the wheat and who will help me make the bread" and they all said "Not I" so she explained it was all her hard work so she ate the bread all by herself.Review- I really think this is a great book that teaches children that they will get what they put into things.
I rated The Little Red Hen five stars because not only does this book teach a great life lesson, the use of language and illustrations are appropriate for the intended age group.
When reading this book to a group of four year olds, the questions, “How do you think Hen feel, none of her friends want to help her plant the wheat?” “How would you feel?” were asked.Each response was surprising quite similar, “Sad, because no one will help her”.
“I would feel sad if my friends did not want to help or play with me.”The Little Red Hen teaches children about friendship, cooperation, sharing, and respect.
I read this when I was only about 2 1/2 or 3 years old - it was the first book I learned to read by myself, so it holds a very special place in my heart and history.
I still love this book - my family and friends who know me well know my deep (and perhaps weird) love for chickens (not to eat them - I don't eat poultry!; I find them incredibly fascinating as sentient beings), so it's not strange to understand my love for this book.
It is about an ambitious little, red hen who wants to grow wheat and asks her friends to help her.
Her friends still do not wish to help.
Now it is time to eat and enjoy the bread and wouldn’t you know, her friends do wish to help.
The little red hen replies, “no, no I will do that.” And she did.Children love this story being read to them especially when you do all the different voices to the animals.
Also, asking this children if they can see a pattern and what they think the next animals is going to say.
When the red hen finds a grain of wheat, she tries to ask her fellow farmyard animals for help in planting it, but they all decline - instead wanting to sleep or do nothing.
From this, the red hen spends much time working and figuring out how to plant the grain, which she does successfully and manages to bake bread, for her and her chicks.
This book is really great at showing persistence, from the hen who is determined to figure out how to plant the grain of wheat so she can feed her chicks.
During the process of making the bread, the hen asks the other animals if they would help in the making of it which they declined each time.
But when the bread is finally made and the hen asks who will help her eat it the animals all say they will to which the hen responds no because they didn't help before.
I liked the lesson told in the story and see use for it in the lower grades of elementary.
I also think it could be both fun and beneficial to read Burro's Tortillas as well to compare the two stories identifying the similarities and differences.
The Little Red Hen is a golden book.
It is for children 4+.
The little red hen wanted help to plant her wheat, carry the wheat, make the dough, bake the bread, and eat the bread.No one wanted to help but everyone wanted to eat the bread once it was finished.
This book will teach children about teamwork and helping each other.
I like this book because it can help teach a valuable lesson and I really like the illustrations.
This book can be used in the classroom to have the children help each other.
The Little Red Hen is a great book that can teach children a valuable lesson about contribution.
This book is about a hen that finds a seed one day that can be used for making wheat and then when it's time the little red hen can make bread out of the wheat.
By the time the bread is ready to be eaten all the animals want some but the hen doesn't share because no one helped.
Lesson taught: if you want to get a piece of the pie (bread in this case) then you need to help and not expect It to be handed to u.
Classic Folktale story of the Little Red Hen. I owned this book as child and had forgot about it until I came across it today.
She asks all her friends to help her but they all say no.
She asked her friends to her harvest it when it is time to take it to the mill but her friends all say no.
Not until it is time to eat the bread does her friends say yes they will help.
The little Red Hen tells then all "NO." She did all the work so she will be the one to eat all of the bread.
This is a classic story of the little red hen.
This story is all about helping out and doing the right thing, that way you can get the benefits of helping.
Little red hen is just trying to make some bread but none of her friends will help with it.
However, by the end when she is done making the bread and it is ready to eat, all her friends want some, but because they didn't help her they don't get any.
This picture book has a great lesson tied into it.
Elementary students will love the pictures and the easier read.
Classic tale of the little red hen who bakes and eats her own bread, with no help from her lazy friends!Language: Great, lots of repetition and description. 4/5Artwork: Lovely. 4/5Fun: The tasks are mundane but toddlers actually like that kind of thing. 4/5Morals: If you want something done right, do it yourself! 3/5Feminism: I think all the lazy friends were men? So we have a female character performing historically female duties while men laze around? On the plus side, she enjoys the fruits of her work and doesn't see any need to donate to the patriarchy. 4/5
