https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/594970.The_Family_from_One_End_Street
(Both in the writing and the adorable and funny illustrations!) I loved learning, as an adult, that this beloved book was ground-breaking for being the first British children's book to depict the everyday lives of normal working-class kids, instead of the polished "desirable" lives of upper-class children.
I desired their lives pretty wildly as a kid.
I'm sure several generations of children by now have dreamed about that cake.
and their stories are all so funny and engaging!It's funny.
The older British kids' books I loved were mostly the magic-filled adventures of E.
I have always very much enjoyed reading what I call and label slice-of-life descriptions and depictions, and The Family From One End Street absolutely and glowingly has fit the proverbial bill for me, presenting a realistic portrait of 1930's England from the point of view of not the upper but the lower echelons of society (a much rewarding and also appreciatively entertaining reading experience, as long as one also strives to remember that the various episodic antics and adventures, the general themes are shown through the filter of the author, of Eve Garnett, who due to the fact that she definitely was of a considerably higher social status than the Ruggles family, than her featured characters, of course lacks the immediacy of personal experience and also does at least sometimes show an attitude that while always sympathetic also has the unfortunate but realistic tendency to come across as a trifle superior, not in any way enough to actively reject The Family From One End Street as a novel, but enough to make one think, ponder and discuss).
Imagine if you will,~ bird-chirping weather.~ the fragrance of warm, sun dried cotton clothes.~ lying on a beach with your talkative family and wriggling your toes in the sand as you snarfed down sandwiches and slabs of fruit cake.~ the nervous excitement of visiting your first ever unsupervised birthday party and then returning home with that pleasant tiredness.~ your utter awe of the darkened movie theatre and the smell of popcorn tantalising your senses.~ the small thrill of curling up in bed with an old, dog-eared book.~ facing mum’s wrath when you came home with scabby knees, unravelling pigtails and a huge grin on your face.Now tie all that up and what you have is a childhood that didn’t have much technology but what it did have was a tremendous capacity to create happy memories.
As book-finder chance would have it, not long after reading about these childhood favourites of Mangan’s - featuring the working class Ruggles family, with their seven children - I discovered this book (and its follow-up) in vintage 1970s Puffin editions at the Oxfam bookshop I volunteer at.
These are the books that I should have been reading as a child: how I would have adored them, with their English style, dialect and setting.
As Mangan points out, this was one of the first books to realistically, humorously and lovingly portray a decidedly ‘not’ posh (or even middle-class) family.
I read only one chapter, the one where Lily Rose irons a silk petticoat with a hot iron, in a magazine, when I was a child.
Now, some fifty years later, I found the book, and one glance at the contents and my childhood days were back.
I had never quite forgotten Lily Rose.A sense of contentment steals over you as you read through the simple pleasures that life holds for this family.
They are so perfectly happy in their genteel poverty, the children create their own adventures (I love the way, each chapter is devoted to one child, and they are all so different, yet so real).
We loved reading about this large family, struggling to make ends meet in the 1930s.
I read this as a child about 30 years ago and it didn't seem to be talking about an era so far from my own.
Reading it today makes me realise that the way of life in the book really has gone into history.
We loved reading how Mrs Ruggles took in washing, to a child now this was incomprehensible that even the wealthy didn't have a washing machine !
We enjoyed working out what a £1 was worth then, as the book gives some examples of what other things cost.
British working class family. Really good stories. Realistic and fun. I'm delighted to have found this author.I loved it again upon a second reading for my book group. We read it because I bought everyone copies. They couldn't say no. I hope they liked it too.Turns out everyone liked it. Sparked lots of discussion of the way things were. Remembering our childhoods and made us think of the documentary series 7-Up.
Just started it.
It's not unlike Elizabeth Enright's 'Melendy Books'.
Set a little earlier - 1930s not 40s - but some similar humour and sympathetic, well-drawn characters.Finished it while on holiday.
Delightful, funny, warm, and would be a great book to read aloud to older children.
So refreshing to read a book so unconcerned with the 'wow' factor and a slew of marketing behind it, but relies simply on characterisation to keep you reading.
If you liked 'The Penderwicks' by Jeanne Birdsall, or if you enjoy the books of Edward Eager, you'll probably like this too.
A bold step back in time!
I'm very much in the minority on this one. To me, it was a perfect fable designed to keep children of the lower classes contently in their Place. Desperately poor? Buck up - it's not so bad, and there's always a kind rich person to act as beneficent angel when you land in the soup (if you're kind and respectful enough). The utter lack of a villain or an adversary of any sort in this novel makes it feel less like a story and more and more like a tract. Give me a good Roald Dahl any day.
This is a depression-era children's novel about a working class family struggling to make ends meet; the father, Jo, is a dustman, and with his partner combs trash for valuables after collecting it. Rose, the mother, does laundry. Their seven children have realistic adventures that could have happened at that time. Overall the book has a glow of love and happiness despite various scrapes and problems along the way.
Seven kids and lots of adventures.
I want to avoid a mindset that irritates me in others, that there is inherent value in something that merely serves as a prompt for memories of times past.
Especially if rose-tinted memories may seem more attractive than the mixed experience of living in the present.I'm also a bit hesitant about (unaccompanied) adults who value children's books, or music, TV programmes or days out, above adult-experiences.
It attempts to portray life of a working class family with seven children.
which event sounds like the kind of thing that would be considered not in the best of taste these days, yet a hell of a lot better for all concerned than 5-year-olds in beauty pageants.i hadn't read this as a child, and as an adult am happily surprised by how vivid, funny and convincingly written it is, although the writer is clearly middle-class (looking up her wiki entry, she was an artist who had attended a progressive girls boarding school).
The mother, Rose, is a laundress, and the father, Old Jo, is a dustman (garbage man), and they love their life and their seven children (although the wife does comment that that is plenty).
Rose says early on in the book that where would the world be without a laundress and a dustman?
Rose tells Old Jo not to wave with his left arm because he has a slit under the sleeve!Although there are plenty of adventures, extremely dangerous ones too, there are no bad guys in the entire book except for snooty people, and only three of them.
Love penetrates the entire book.
What if we only read books like this?
3.5What a charming little book. We follow the trials and tribulations of a large working class family, the Ruggles, in an episodic-like narration, full of anecdotes, mixing humour with pathos. All this is enhanced by the lovely line illustrations made by the author.
One of my favorite childhood reads!! This book is just packed with nostalgia💛💛
I first heard about The Family from One End Street: and Some of Their Adventures by Eve Garnett from the BBC television special, "Picture Book: An Illustrated History of Children's Literature", which my husband and I watched together a few years ago.
Rather, the Ruggles have just as much fun - and get into just as much trouble - as any Melendy, Pye, Moffat or other literary heroine found in the children's books of the 1930s and 1940s.Garnett has a wonderful ear for dialogue and a true understanding of the way kids' minds work.
An excellent evening read for children or adults who love kids' books.
The adventures are funny without being silly, heartwarming without being sentimental sludge.
Mr and Mrs Ruggles are working-class parents of a large family; he is a dustman (garbage collector in the US) while she is a washerwoman.
I had to laugh at the adventure of the Green Silk Petticoat, as something very similar happened to me with a clothes dryer when I was first married!
The author wanted to write stories that working-class English kids could relate to, and I believe she achieved that.
One of the most enjoyable childhood books I've ever read!
It tells the tale of an obscenely poor family who are catching their asses to provide for their seven children, three girls; and four boys, one of which is a baby, a pair of twins, and one lone boy who was often found on his own, looking for a way to earn money to feed his addiction for Walt Disney cinema cartoons.
A wonderful tale.
I believe I've read this about 15 times.
Please, read it for you or your kids.
Nice, nice, nice. Another book I would have loved when I was younger. Very reminiscent of The Moffats or The Gilbreths (even though they were a real family) from Cheaper by the Dozen if those families had been British. Very wholesome, humorous, and entertaining in a really nice way. Now I've got to see about finding a copy of those sequels: Further Adventures of the Family from One End Street and Holiday at the Dew Drop Inn.
The first book in another series I absolutely loved; it chronicles the adventures of the working-class Ruggles family and -- I learned recently -- was groundbreaking at the time because children's books before this tended to be about upper-class kids living safe, sterile lives. Not so the Ruggles kids, although these are still children's books so don't expect anything *too* terrible to happen to them. At least they get dirty and worry about money.
I just had to re-read this book from my childhood. And the fact that I could remember whole chapters of it and even some of the dialogue word for word shows how much of an impression it had made on me, and it was lovely to read again. A lovely old fashioned children's book.
To my surprise I didn't really enjoy this one, I found it boring and fairly "meh". The only parts that I felt emotionally invested in were the parts where I was appalled by the horribly neglectful parenting (even taking into consideration the obvious differences between the 1930's and today)
Remember reading this book when I was very young. Loved it and it's follow ups. Reminded me of a book version of the Broons (a Scottish comic strip).
A re-read.
Heart Heart Heart
iseenesest on see suht lihtsakoeline lasteraamatuke - igas peatükis juhtub ühe lapsega pere seitsme hulgast midagi veidi täbarat, lõpuks laabub kõik kenasti ja elukvaliteet saab paremgi kui enne pisiseiklust (tavaliselt jäädakse plussi rahaliselt, aga minimaalselt annab keegi hea inimene kommi ja kooki, ja ikka kõigi õdede-vendade jagu varuga).huvitav on hoopis see, kuidas tegu on inglise lasteraamatuskene läbimurdelise teosega - väidetavalt esimene raamat, kus seiklevad vaesed, töölisklassist pärit lapsed, mitte privilegeeritud erakoolipõngerjad, väikesed printsessid ega lord fauntleroyd.
see ilmus aastal 1937 ja võitis tol aastal Carnegie medali (aasta parim uus briti laste- või noorteraamat), kusjuures nomineeritud oli ka "Kääbik".
eestis, muide, ilmus samal aastal Jüri Parijõe "Teraspoiss", nii et ajastu vaib oligi vist pigem agulilaste kui mäekollide poole kaldu.
jangan tanya ke gua soal umur mereka, ahahahaa :pSang ayah bernama Josiah, bekerja sebagai tukang sampah dan istrinya yang bernama Rosie bekerja sebagai tukang cuci dan membuka binatu di rumah mereka yang pencuciannya masih secara manual.Putri sulung mereka bernama Lily Rose, anak berikutnya masih seorang perempuan bernama Kate disusul oleh si kembar James and John yang mempunyai adik laki2 yang dinamai nama ayah mereka, Jo(siah?), lalu kembali lahir anak perempuan lainnya bernama Margareth Rosie serta William melengkapi formasi keluarga Ruggles.Itu semua terangkum dari bab 1 yang berjudul "Penamaan".Bab kedua menceritakan tentang "Lily Rose & Selendang Sutra Hijau" yang mana niatan baik tidak selalu berujung pada hasil yang baik pula, hahaha..Bab ketiga tentang anak kedua, "Kate, Sebelas Plus - Sekaligus Minus" yang masih dalam tahap pembacaan jadi I can't tell you much about her :p~.*.~Masih May 22, 2011Kisah Kate menceritakan tentang anak kedua keluarga Ruggles yang mendapatkan beasiswa!
Of it's time, but I enjoyed this.
Judul : 4/5Sampul : 3/5Pembuka : 5/5Cerita : 4/5Penceritaan : 3/5Bahasa : 3/5Penutup : 4/5Layout : 4/5Blurb : 5/5TOTAL : (-) 4/5*Rekomendasi : 5/5
