https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41697.Cyclops
So the book somehow manages to combine a secret moon base, a massive lost golden statue (La Dorada), a missing millionaire, CIA agents, and a terroristic plot against communist Cuba and Fidel Castro personally.
But I'm not one to abandon books, generally, so I finished the danged thing, but wow, it never got better, and Jessie LeBaron (Ms. Richy-Rich herself) just got more ridiculous and whimpering helpless woman the farther I read.
If this were the only Cussler book I had ever read, I'd think he'd never met an actual woman.
After a couple of days the blimp passes over Florida where our hero Dirk Pitt is taking part in a race stops the blimp and later the body inside the blimp are not of Raymond Le Baron.Plot 3 : The President of United States comes to know the fact that there is a Moon base called Jersey Colony developed behind the ruling elite by the Inner core consisting of brilliant young scientists, corporate businessman, engineers and politicians.
The chapters relating to the torture chamber in Cayo Santa Maria, the author cleverly uses Pitt's wit and sarcastic comments to mask the unpleasant situation.Did Pitt finds out the treasure from the Cyclops?
An old blimp is restored and then disappears off the shores of Cuba with its billionaire owner. Two weeks later it reappears in Miami with the frozen bodies of three Russian cosmonauts aboard. Dirk Pitt is persuaded to retrace the airship's route and discovers a secret Russian base in Cuba. Meanwhile, American civilians have built a secret base on the moon that is about to be attacked by the Russians.
So cool.===There's a big gold statue in the story and the head is carved from a massive emerald.
But the book cover designer went freestyle and drew a big gold head with emerald eyes.I think Clive had three stories on the go.
A moon base shoot-out, a search for an ugly gold statue with a big emerald head and a Cuban spy drama.
But for most of this book, Dirk's "off-piste" and doing a Bond in Cuba.Everyone's happy at the end, as per.
But I think Dirk's friend should face murder charges for downing that Cuban military helicopter.
Dopo aver letto alcuni degli ultimi libri della serie di Dirk Pitt, non posso che essere felice di e
Clive Cussler does it again with another captivating, thrilling, NUMA story involving politics, adventure, and mystery intertwined. Thanks for making reading your stories such fun, Mr. Cussler!
With such snapping writing as Bad Guy: "Dirk. May I call you Dirk? Dirk replies "That's my name", like he is a 6yr on the playground. I don't know how to think about this. I enjoy Cussler's writing but it can be so cheesy and I don't know if its because this is from the 1980's or that's just how he writes. I will learn as I continue this series.
I always enjoy the reading of a Clive Cussler novel.
While the plot points were interesting, there were too many for one book.
A secret colony on the moon; the lost El Dorada statue; several concurrent plots by the Communists in Russia to attack said secret moon colony, have their one secret manned island near Cuba that was basically a giant antenna with a beach, assassinate Fidel Castro, and then blame the CIA for it; secret talks between the Fidel and the American president with some very unconventional and extremely inefficient communication methods - and it all culminates in three ships exploding in a harbor in Havana, the aftermath of which leads Cuba to sever its ties with Russia and the US to drop the trade embargo.
Or possibly just confused because it was difficult to keep track of which plot point we were on.
Dirk Pitt has been beaten to death, swam in the middle of the night across a vast body of water, arrived on the beaches of Cuba with no hope of survival and first thing in the morning he had sex in a drainage pipe?????
I like Clive Cussler's adventures, especially Dirk Pitt's, but this has been the most weird and outlandish one yet.
As a typical Cussler book, it has multiple weak plots to reach the 500 pages Cussler likes to write.
The only way I was able to keep reading was because I support his books.
It just baffles me how Cussler finds a way to take us around the globe with his brilliant adventures. I'll admit that these adventures are no brain teasers but they certainly have unexpected elements that render them very entertaining in my taste.
Great adventure/thriller. Another Dirk Pitt novel that will keep you enthralled through out the entire book. Not really believable and a bit on the sci-fi side, but Cussler tells such a great story that it just doesn’t matter.
Another great Dirk Pitt novel, you really can't go wrong with this series. This is also the book where he gets his prized bathtub, so it's worth reading for that. All in all, just another in the same mold. Cussler has a good formula here, why mung it up?
Not my favorite Dirk Pitt book. Needs more Giordino!
It was time for some cinematic adventure....Dirk Pitt fills that need for me. The eighth Pitt came out in '86, so he's battling those "evil" Russians again. Another fun action adventure.
Can't bring myself to finish it. It's making "Raise the Titanic" look good.
Pretty fun
We come to find out that Jessie's husband was a part of the secret cabal AND on a secret mission on behalf of the President to meet with the Castros [Fidel and Raul] to see if they might leave the Russian fold and become American allies.
He eventually discovers the secret communications compound for the moon colony.Upon Dirk's return to the United States, he works with a CIA strike team composed of Cubans to plan an attack on the secret Soviet site.
Mr. Cussler weaves a tale involving a billionaire using an airship to search for the wreckage of the Cyclops and Pitt is on hand when the airship makes an appearance after vanishing itself, complete with a dead crew who turn out not to be the men who took off with it from Miami.
To say more should be spoiling the story, which is addicting and a true global spanning epic.Like each Cussler novel, this early Pitt adventure is highly recommended for good old fashioned adventure.
Cyclops, by Clive Cussler, is one of many books in the Dirk Pitt series.
The story goes from an antique blimp vanishing over the open ocean, to a sunken ship with a priceless statue, to a battle for a space shuttle and a moon colony, and everywhere in between.
I would recommend this book for those who like fast paced, edge of your seat action, but also those of you who appreciate attention to detail, because Cussler places intricate detail everywhere, but without interrupting the flow of the story.
This story also contains a mystery aspect, as the U.S. President tracks down the ‘Inner Circle’, the mysterious group behind the moon colony.
Cyclops is a Dirk Pitt yarn which includes not only far-reaching places, but far-out plots.
Cussler extends the action across the world to Russia and out of this world in to space too.
Dirk however is caught up in the domestic end of these elements, with action centred off the US coast and in to Cuba.
The scope of Cyclops is it's undoing though - there's so much plot the characters are poorly conceived and the whole book becomes farcical rather than thrilling.
That said, it has plenty of action and you will want to see it through until the end.
I could only get about halfway through this one.
I'd read about ten Cussler books in the distant past and enjoyed them, but my tastes have evidently changed.
I'd remembered Clive as a good writer, and when describing setting, history, etc., he is.
But there is simply too much detail, and none of the characters act or speak realistically.
The book was written in the mid-80's, when devil-may-care heroes spouted one-liners every other sentence.
Most folks who read Cussler know what they're getting into.
A bit more knowing, and a bit less on the nose.
Dirk is again being a hero and saving the world and nations again and again, beating the bad guys again and again, surviving hardest situations again and again.
Apart from that he is showing US as very right country but USSR and Cuba as bad.
I can see he was just acting according to US nationalism and really hoping to find nice story after USSR break up.PS: it's a great irony that he was writing for Russian guys as they are having ridiculous Soviet thoughts that CIA is behind everything and in the stories bad Russian guys are behind everything.
Thoroughly entertaining, enjoyable, and packed full of the outlandish Cussler plot schemes you would expect. A secret American space colony on the moon, a long sought after lost treasure harvested from the Brazilian jungle and lost at sea, a Russian plot to overthrow the Castro government in Cuba, and a media tycoon's mysterious disappearance following a blimp adventure... these all sound like they could each be their own story, but somehow Clive Cussler has neatly wrapped it all into one ambitious Dirk Pitt story.
Dirk Pitt gets involved with a rich wife of a rich man.
The husband had disappeared while searching for treasure - that was the cover story.
Castro is tired of the Russians in Cuba and is trying to secretly contact the US President.
His wife takes over the mission when her husband disappears.
Dirk, Giordano, and Gunn are roped into the mission - thinking it was a treasure hunt.
Instead they end up shipwrecked on a Cuban island with an ultrasecret Russian communications base.
He brings back CIA and Cuban soldiers and destroy the base.
Then Dirk locates the treasure.
I can't get enough of Dirk Pitt! Pitt starts out looking for Cyclops, a missing freighter from the early 1900s that sank with a massive gold statue aboard. During his quest he gets imprisoned in Cuba along with his crew. Meanwhile, the President of the US finds out that there's a secret moon colonization program run by the US happening and the Russians are trying to take control of the program. It sounds like a lot and it is! Great read!
Typical Dirk Pitt. Enjoyable with a hint of ridiculousness and a dash of misogyny, but in the end a fun little story that no kidding involved a shootout on the moon. I can hear the physicists crying in their sleep over that idea. These stories are actually getting better with the chest thumping he-man stuff getting toned down a bit. A bit.
Not one of my favorites, but I read it. I liked it. By the time I read this one I was 33 years old. That was 25 years ago. Already, the steamier the book the more I liked it. The problem I remember about this one was the 'Steam' factor. The adventure part was good. But, I remember being just 'Okay' with this one.
Oh My... Where to start... This is one of the best Dirk Pitt books I have read. If not one of the best books I have read ever. Or yet. Lol. I love to get lost in an adventure. And this one had it all... Loved it...
1918 de Karayip Denizinde bir heykelle birlikte batan geminin peşinden Zeplinle hazine arayan bir zengin ,uzay gemileri, NASA..... Zeplin, küvetten yaptığı motor, Romork gemisi kullanan Dirk Pitt Havana limanında son bulan bir macera.......
