https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/263466.Dragon_s_Egg
Classic Hardcore Hard-SF.
Think about the extended growth of a people from hunters and gatherers all the way to a massively accomplished civilization in the space of a single novel and add a little wrinkle: this happens in the space of how long it takes us for apes to notice a neutron star passing through our Solar System, to put together an expedition, and then to throw scientists at it.This alien civilization is on the surface of the neutron star.
:) They live fast, think fast, and pass through generations really fast.
:)I'm so glad to have caught this classic!
"I have acquired some facility in the Slow Ones' language since our last meeting, and maybe I will grasp it better."Sky-Talker slid the crystalline taste-sheets towards the other cheela, and Cautious-Careful methodically began to move his tread over them.
Though I am still unsure of a few things--""And what would they be?" asked Sky-Talker."Well," said Cautious-Careful diffidently, "I flatten myself before your greater knowledge of Slow One culture.
I must confess that I have never understood what they are, but the Slow Ones seem to set great store by them.""They are unimportant," replied Sky-Talker dismissively.
Also, Forward asks us how would humans be able to get near and to observe the goings on on the surface of such an inhospitable planetoid / star.I learned back in highschool from one of the best physics professors in the country that there are two types of atomic interactions : weak betwwen electrons and strong between protons and neutrons.
Earlier this year I read an excellent novel that has an almost identical structure (accelerated alien development, human observation station in orbit, multi-generational narrative) by Adrian Tchaikovsky -   Children of Time   .
As it happens, the surface of the star has a "crust" of highly degenerate nuclear material, at densities and pressures that enable exotic nucleochemistry to occur -- nuclei with extended shape and structure that are "weakly" bound, sources of free energy.
Fast life -- nuclear reactions proceed at least five or six orders of magnitude faster than electronic ones, so a "year" of life on the surface is order of a minute of life to the human watchers.The laser light acts as a source of free energy -- rich "food" for the primitive life forms -- and competition for that food spurs evolution and a series of social revolutions.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.High Gauss EM Field: "Dragon's Egg" by Robert L.
Forward(Original Review, 1991)I just got around to reading DRAGON'S EGG.
I thought the human characterization was weak in places (not enough introspection, lack of diversity of characters), but clearly Bob knows about the scientific establishment!
Actually, I thought that the alien characters were better drawn.[2018 EDIT: This review was written at the time as I was running my own personal BBS server.
Much of the language of this and other reviews written in 1980 reflect a very particular kind of language: what I call now in retrospect a “BBS language”.]
Of all of the greatest science-fiction books written at the time of this novel, this one seems to be one that is not as popular, or as read as it should be.
It is a novel that explores so much more than many popular series.
Now that that is out of the way let us get something else out of the way too, this book is neither about eggs, nor is it about dragons, it is about a scientific discovery of a race called the cheela who live in a neutron star, the surface gravity it has, leads for them to be the size of a sesame seed, and therefore develop much faster than humans.
What an interesting concept!It is magnificently written, the plot is brilliant, and that is all we need to know.
In science fiction there is only a handful of books that stretch the mind - and this is one of them!" my thoughts are and feelings are summed up much better than I can possibly hope to achieve.Dragon's Egg is not a mediocre fantasy novel, it is a classic of hard science fiction, a study of the evolution of life on a neutron star, a premise borrowed for an episode of Star Trek Voyager that I saw recently, humans go to observe the star and their presence in the sky of a people whose lives are lived at one million times the speed of humanity inspires generations of thinkers to evolve their society from "cavemen" to potential lords of the universe in the matter of a human day.The sense of wonder alluded to owes everything to the approach taken by Forward in his writing, he is both technical and romantic in his view of his wondrous creations, painting vivid capsules of important moments and people in Cheela history, not all of them legendary or moral but all individuals who made decision or saw something that others didn't for the betterment of their species.
I don't read much Sci-fi, but my brother bought me this book for my birthday, so I gave it a go. Aside from the setting being on a distant star and the main characters being tiny alien creatures, this book is really a study about the evolution of a species and its society. I was rapt by the developments these beings made as they progressed through their ultra short lifespans, creating religions, laws, philosophies and superstitions. A fascinating read!
New Year Resolution2018Avoid Roger Penrose's 'I loved this' shelf.I dare say all the positive reviews of this are right, but it's not for me.
My favorite aspect of this book is the time compression between the humans and the Cheela.
It reminds me of a passage in The Indian in the Cupboard where "normal" sized Omri prepares a campfire for the tiny Indian with which to warm himself and to cook a tiny chunk of meat.
RLF really nailed the time compression scenario in this book and the rest of the science in Dragon's Egg seems fairly legit.
And a minor quibble...why exactly did the humans decide to visit Dragon's Egg?
Alright, here's the basic gist: intelligent life lives on a planet that rotates five times per second.
For each Earthling 15 minute period, a generation passes on their planet.During a very brief researching period, the astronauts watch as this strange and quick culture develops from barely using a number system to...well, doing much more than add numbers.
But, the individual characters in this book are secondary to the relationship between these two vastly different cultures.
What the book lacks in character development it makes up for with the immensely creative world that Forward has created.
“Go in a direction others do not go.” I'm ashamed to say that I'd never heard of Robert Forward before being introduced to this wonderful book. Huge thanks to my friend Cassy for dragging me out of that hole of ignorance!Dragon’s Egg is the story of the cheela, a civilization of tiny beings that evolved on the surface of Egg, a neutron star.The 67-billion-g surface gravity of Egg and its spin rate of over 1000 revolutions per second pose unique difficulties for the inhabitants of the star. Weig
The extreme gravity makes it almost impossible for them to climb a ‘mountain’ that is only a few millimeters high, and anything that drops onto the surface of the star disintegrates in an instant.The compounds in cheela bodies (and in everything else on Egg) are held together by nuclear forces, unlike the electromagnetic forces that keep our atoms together here on Earth.
An entire lifetime for a cheela is a mere 15 human minutes!Despite all of these complications, Robert Forward somehow manages to make this a Hard Sci-Fi story, and for that I give him 5 million (neutron) stars.The characters in this book, tiny as they are, are extremely well crafted.
Why is their math apparently base 10 when (IIRC) they have 12 appendixes and 12 eyes?) There's a couple of really cool ideas, for example when humans (unaware of intelligent life at that point) start to use lasers for a few minutes to map the planet, the beings on the surface quickly develop a religion around the lasers.
It's kind of creepy to have the woman's beauty described every time she says something intelligent.
One million times ours in fact - so that we get to see in just a few human days a society advance from a bronze age type culture to surpassing human knowledge of physics and engineering (inspired by us, but we take so long to tell them anything that they have plenty of time to take our ideas and run with them).
How do we appear to such creatures who live out their entire life in a 30 minute time span?
I won't spoil the story by saying, but this is one of the most thought inspiring sci-fi novels I've read in a long time.
A classic "hard" sf novel and a very unique first contact novel. Over 30 years old it is still an amazing read.
4 stars
On the one hand, here we've got an extremely interesting high-concept sci-fi story — quite "hard" sci-fi up until they get so advanced as to be incomprehensible — written by a real physicist and aerospace engineer.On the other hand … well, it also reads like it was written by a physicist, and not by an author.
It's more an exercise in discussing gravity gradients than a real plot aspect.The aliens, meanwhile, read a lot better under this writing style.
Overall a very enjoyable hard scifi read, but if I had to critique some things, it would be: 1) the aliens are slightly annoyingly too human-like (would have appreciated an attempt at something more perplexing / foreign), 2) some parts of the book drag on for a very long time without being interesting (e.g. the various escapades of the cheela that take up a large portion of the book), 3) the cheela civilization is not imagined in a satisfying detail, and 4) the ending is a little too abrupt and naive for my tastes.
I read this book probably 20 years ago (funny how I keep remembering books I read a long time ago as I try to catalog them all on Goodreads).
I can't say I remember the plot in detail, but it was a really fascinating hard SF novel about intelligent life forms who live on the surface of a star.
It was a good read, though I don't know well it would stand up twenty years later.
This is "hard" science fiction, my favorite kind.The plot is driven by believable, yet imaginative, consequences of physical laws.What's important to me in an SF novel is that things make sense.I love it when I get the feeling that the story is how it has to be.This book is a perfect example.Astrophysics sets the scene, and the characters do the discovering along side the reader.It's so much fun!
That is the essence of this book : to imagine how life might evolve in the Dragon's Egg and how it might interact with human contact.
I can imagine how they evolve and how they interact with each other the way they're depicted in the book to be exactly the case if we (homo sapiens) ever encountered an intelligent life like Cheela.
I can also believe that the human-Cheela contact could occur the way it happens in the book.
Discovery of a neutron star and discovery of alien that is unique in a very extreme way. Is it possible for life to form in an environment with a few BILLION Gs? It is apparently. I must say I'm very impressed by the author's creativity.
Maybe the best hard scifi I've ever read. Starts off a bit slow, but the crazy, well thought out detail of the alien world is downright exhilarating by the end.
Great concept but the clunky writing and a gloss over of how exactly human language could be deciphered irks me just a bit.
and then there's what's happening on the surface of the neutron star, which proceeds through several different arcs.That last, of course, is where the main imaginative elements of the novel come from.
Incredibly, this is an exercise in hard SF, with the main speculative part dealing with the idea of the surface of the star hasn't quite collapsed all the way to neutronium, allowing for complex interactions (and the evolution of life) utilizing the strong nuclear force.
A suitably strange-seeming idea is proposed (what would life on a neutron star look like?), and then a story explores the ramifications of the idea.
This was such a surprise!
One of the major benefits of being in a book club - I read books I would never have picked up on my own.
I've already recommended it to a few people.The alien society was a little too "human" for my taste, but the concept was intriguing and executed perfectly.
At one point a human on the spaceship, Amalita, says something like "These 15 minute friendships really do a number on the emotions." And they really do.
Apparently, the humans in this future have never heard of the prime directive.The last 3 pages or so of the book sells it completely.
I loved it.
This book really blew me away. It is one of the most imaginative and amazing stories I have read. Furthermore, Forward is a scientist with JPL so his science in the story is right on. His follow up, Star Quake was also pretty good, but nothing he wrote after that did much for me.
Reading twice, finally it's intriguing!
Probably my favourite book this year, although it's not for everyone.
Most distinctly there is a lack of character, yet it was an original & enjoyable tale.
The finishing chapter is a lot of fun.
Times have progressed from Mr. Forward's then-contemporary audience, and he pays proud homage to the cultural dynamic between science fiction & fact.
His writing searches for and finds some fun with neutron-beasts living in 60,000,000,000 'gees' bound by extreme magnetism living one million times faster on a travelling sun.
Let me repeat myself, the final chapter is a lot of fun.
While there, the humans discover there is an intelligent species living on the neutron star.The book hops back and forth between what humans are doing (observing the neutron star from Earth, preparing the space mission, studying the star, and communicating with the other species) and what the aliens are doing.
Because of the high energy on the neutron star and because of the compressed matter from which the aliens are composed, they live a million times faster than humans.
