https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/143675.A_Path_with_Heart
(Besides, I don’t want a master; I want a teacher or guide or good friend, but I digress…) To make a long story short: Kornfield is heavy on the “fufu jargon,” and for a spiritual curmudgeon like me it just doesn’t fly.This kind of writing is unabashedly “popular,” politically correct, and “nice.” The above is symptomatic of this, but his willingness to water down passages quoted from other (especially traditional) sources, to massage them into accordance with his way of presentation, also points to this tendency.
The title of this book emphasizes Kornfield's favorite theme that love is what life is ultimately all about and whatever path one follows in life, one must be sure that it is a "path with heart," one that will lead a person at the end of his/her life to be able to answer positively to the question "Did I love well?" I also have enjoyed some of Korfield's audio CDs such as his six-CD set called Buddhist Meditation for Beginners, a collection of his lectures that emphasize the main tenets of Buddism--the four noble truths, (suffering, the cause of suffering, letting go of suffering, an end to suffering)and the eight-fold path to peace, etc.,  A Path with Heart contains chapter after chapter of Kornfield's calm, loving wisdom, and each has a detailed guided meditation such as lovingkindness, "stopping the war within," "a meditative visit to the healing temple," "transforming sorrow into compassion," forgiveness meditation, and many more.
Have read it 3 times. Takes me to a beautiful place everytime.
This is a Kornfield's attempt at a general guide book to Buddhist spiritual inquiry.
It makes an attempt to draw parallels between Buddhism and other spiritual traditions, but in general it's intended audience is practicing Buddhists with some familiarity with the tradition.
First the pros: Kornfield does a good job of addressing some of the pitfalls that one can fall into during spiritual practice.
Secondly, Kornfield uses the word faith throughout the book.
At least the kind of Buddhism I practice doesn't.So, overall, a worthwhile read, but a few things that irritated me that I had to overlook in finding what was helpful about this book.
(Is it a coincidence that all of these have a Jewish background?)Kornfield's book is one of my favorites partly because he backs up his 'lessons' with numerous examples from his numerous teachers from across the different Eastern forms of Buddhism, his own life and practice as well as from those whom he has lead in meditation sessions.
Typically in this IM tradition, the religious forms of Buddhism that have accreted around the practice of meditation are de-emphasized (Rosenberg is fond of telling beginners in his classes that he is not a Buddhist!) making is very accessible to a Westerner.
Found at the laundry room free shelf at the apartment where I'm staying in Vancouver...
It is a fairly basic book if you already have some detailed knowledge of (particularly western) Buddhism.
The walkthrough it gives on how to actually do that meditation is better than any ive found online, so that is probably the most valuable part of the book.
I'd say, if you need a reminder of how to apply Buddhist meditative practices to generating mental health for yourself, pick this up or download the audiobook.
But if you already do these meditative practices on a daily basis, and feel like you are out of the Buddhism 101 stage, then its probably not for you.
“People with opinions just go around bothering one another” says Buddha) and genuine, if therapeutic, insights, I couldn’t help feel Buddhism (the author’s specialty) is horribly complicated.
As one chapter heading warns: “As Achuan Chan put it, ‘If you haven’t cried a number of times, your meditation hasn’t really begun.’” While it may be true, who knew that bawling is the key to the universe?
But I read and benefitted from the book, and as the Buddha says, “One need not carry the raft on one’s head after crossing the stream.” Amen.
This took me a long time to read as its so big and so dense. I really loved it tho - wise, kind and full of love, there was so much in here to write down, re-read and revisit. It's a book about spiritual practice, but it's also about how you take that practice into the world and how you relate to others. Definitely reading more by Kornfield.
I've been reading this book for a long time. I read a chapter, put it down. Pick it up months later. Not because it is bad or poorly written--it's not. It's just something I do with some books. I have learned from it...and I'm sure I will learn more in the future.
Unfortunately I didn't even finish this book. It was hard to get through. I love spiritual books but this one was boring. Life is too short to finish bad books :)
It contains the basics of loving compassion for those who still might be doubtful.
It contains heart's advice for those who might have had a dawn of awakening as well as warnings for those who might have stopped seeking and are just trying to escape the world in meditation.
If you have questions about how to proceed in your practice, then this is the guide for you.About the Finnish edition:Työnimi teokselle oli ilmeisesti "Sydämen polulla", mutta lopulta päädyttiin (ennakkokansista päätellen aika viime hetkillä) tähän kieliopillisesti jännään nimeen.
Alussa se häiritsi minua kovasti ja irvisti jokaisen aukeaman vasemmassa yläkulmassa, mutta lopulta asennoiduin siihen kuin zen koaniin: Ehkä sydän ei ohjaa matkaa, ehkä se ohjaa tietä...
i'm unsure how well this book would read if you didn't have a meditation practice already, but i'm finding it to be a fantastic support for my current practice.
he lays out the key obstacles that people find as they build their spiritual practice, as well as how to support yourself when you come up against these roadblocks.
gentle, wise, funny, sometimes weird, i'm finding that this book is very much reflecting the challenges i'm currently in the midst of.
i'd be interested to hear what people say about this book if they *don't* have a solid practice already.

"Compassion is the heart's response to sorrow. We share in the beauty of life and ocean of tears, Sorrow in life is part of each of our hearts and what connects us to one another. It brings tenderness, mercy, and all embracing kindness that has the ability to touch every being"."Our compassioned heart can untangle our sorrow"."The temple bell stopsbut the sound keeps coming out of the flowers".
This is one of my all time favorite metaphysical/spiritual books. Well written and full of heart.
Intelligent, pragmatic and "enlightening" book about healing yourself, the world and all our relationships past, present and future. Highly recommended for seekers of inner and outer peace.
This book put into words much of what I've been experiencing in the past year or so through my yoga practice. It's a must.
I have been enthralled with everything I have read by Jack Kornfield.
Jack Kornfield, a teacher, psychologist and meditation master, takes us through his spiritual life journey, which is based on the practice of Buddhism.
196) Jack asks to “Envision how your sense of the sacred could grow, to include this in your practice with full attention and compassion, honoring these people, places or activities.
It’s a good practice to try and open your heart to those around you in your daily life.Other meditations in this book include one called Who Am I?, where you and a partner take turns asking each other that question.
Before I read about Kornfield's description of the dark night, I thought "oh these are nice pointers from a sincere guy on meditation and kindness but I don't really see how this relates to spirituality," but afterwards, my perspective of spirituality shifted a bit.
It was especially humbling to read Kornfield's stories about people who have changed in their life, either by a bit or dramatically, and to see his take on them.
I recommend "A Path With Heart" for people interested in realizing subtle meanings of life, Buddhism, connections between meditation and waking life, or spirituality in general.
An approachable (and in-depth) introduction to meditation, the power of the mind, and how thinking in certain ways can truly change your life.
I've read other meditation books, and this one was more approachable than some.
It had a lot of examples of people using meditative practice to help their daily and personal lives.
I have a feeling this is the kind of book you can read again and again and get something new from it every time.
Recommended for people at any stage in their own meditation journey - you'll get something from at least part of this book.
It's a bit short on the nitty gritty details of meditation, but that is not its purpose and there are many other books out there for that aspect of things (such as Mastering the Core Teachings Of The Buddha, or The Mind Illuminated).
This book has become more and more important as my mediation practice has gotten more mature.
It's also a book you could give to anybody, of any religon, even if they are not interested in meditation, and they would find it valuable.
It's taken me way too long to realize that I just don't relate to Jack Kornfield and his whole style.
It's basically the epitome of woo-woo baby boomer, through the lens of Western Buddhism.
If that's your thing, cool.
It is most definitely not my thing.
I couldn't finish it.
And honestly, I think his style might be impeding some folks' meditative progress.Also he does this thing where he'll tell a feel-good story that's only tangentially related to his topic at hand, but happens to be really cloyingly "heart-warming," and then uses that tenuous connection to go back to his original topic.
I love the way Jack Kornfield writes but this book takes a lot of time to read and digest. It's kind of book that you'd like to read 20 mins in the morning and 20 mins before sleep to set the mood for the day or sleep. It's a good book which deserves 4-5 stars for general but for me, it was hard to read due to repetition and discontinuous narrative. Kornfield's The Wise Heart: A Guide to the Universal Teachings of Buddhist Psychology is still his most eye-opening book.
Kornfield seems to be a very wise man. His work balances a realistic view of the individual’s journey in creating meaning in today’s society. I love the balance of psychology with Buddhist and spiritual teachings to offer insight about ones own suffering, and how to walk the middle path. I think this is a great read for anyone seeking meaning.
One of the best books you could read if you’re interested in what Buddhism means in a healthy, daily life. It’s not doctrinaire, it’s full of real-life examples, it’s inspiring and written plainly but with such joy. Whether you are interested in starting a meditation practice or interested in just living a more present, meaningful, mindful life, this is the place to start.
Amazing and inspiring. A clsssic. One of the best and most inspiring books not only about meditation and mindfulness but about a way of being. So easy to read and also so profound.
Amazing book that you could read over and over again and still discover something new every time you have it in your hands. Also would be nice to have it at home as it contains many beautiful meditations, that kind of book you want to read again from time to time.
I can't say enough about Jack Kornfield. If you want to remember the love that is within, listen to Jack. His teachings and voice is the reflection of loving awareness, or as I would say: our eternal love. A must read for anyone interested in ending suffering and living in their love.
