https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/208324.Means_of_Ascent
This was the time between his first failed senate run, during a special election, and his second, successful senate run, which culminated in the famed "87 votes that changed America." During these 7 years, LBJ, the ambitious, over-weaning, butt-kissing, glad-handing, lying, cajoling, cheating, adulterous power-seeker was backed into a corner.
However, as Caro notes in his forward to volume 3, LBJ was shifting throughout his life in order to gain power.
History may show that Coke never stole an election, but it also shows - and Caro FAILS to mention - that he didn't care one whit for blacks.
Caro, Means of Ascent, quoting Coke StephensonThis was a different book from Caro's Vol. 1 of the Years of Lyndon Johnson: The Path to Power.
It ended as LBJ lost the 1941 election for the US Senate to W.
The last half of the book details the 1948 Senate election when LBJ ran against Coke Stephenson for the Texas Senate seat.
But it is hard, too, not to admire LBJ's work ethic and his ability to take enormous risks and sometimes his brilliant ability to read and use people.The book is also a lesson on how we are also suckered by the exact things we think we want badly.
But it's almost as if Caro thinks that Johnson wasn't being fair to the old boy; that instead of flying around the state meeting as many voters as he possibly could, Johnson should have been knocking around Texas in an old beater pickup, talking to people one at a time as a show of deference to his older opponent.In the end, in Caro's view, the runoff election was decided by several thousand votes that were manipulated in Johnson's favor in a few south Texas counties, principally Duval, which was under the firm control of political boss, George Parr, the "Duke" of Duval.
Certainly, Stevenson's supporters were manipulating votes as well, correcting and updating their totals for several days, just as the Johnson camp was doing.Moreover, Caro leaves the reader with the impression that Parr, the "Duke of Duval," was clearly in Johnson's pocket.
I have read every word Caro has written, but I had imagined I could skip this one because nothing really happened and I'd already read the over 200o pages of the Johnson series.
Duh. The man is the best writer I've ever read and I have fully atoned for my error in believing that it was a good idea to skip a book.
In fact, I was so parched for Caro that I read the introduction to this book 3 times just to relish the brilliance of the master.
It is an utter delight to read about Johnson's corruption in this narrative.
A biography researched and documented, yes; but a narrative stranger than fiction.“Means of Ascent” covers seven years of Johnson’s life, comprising his brief (and greatly aggrandized) career in the Navy in World War II and the beginnings of his considerable fortune through ownership of Austin radio station KTBC, which was held in his wife’s name but closely monitored by Johnson and benefitting from his useful contacts in and out of government.But the second half of the book is the dramatic heart of this book, which is considerably shorter than his other volumes (just over 400 pages).
Caro is currently working on the fifth (and, presumably, final) volume in his LBJ series.Published in 1990, “Means of Ascent” covers seven difficult years of LBJ’s life – from shortly after his 1941 loss in a special election for the U.S. Senate (while a congressman) to his controversial 1948 Senate victory over former Texas governor Coke Stevenson.
Also familiar: his use of captivating mini-biographies to introduce important supporting characters.The most important of these introductions is aimed at Coke Stevenson (Johnson’s primary opponent in his 1948 Senate bid) who receives an entire chapter – much like Sam Rayburn in the previous volume.
Caro makes this election campaign the poignant part of this volume, spending a great deal of time on the issue and looking at it, both in-depth and from a variety of perspectives.
Not being American, I was not as aware of his moment is history as some may be (and it seems the US media really picked up on it after LBJ’s death in 1973), but the 87 votes that changed the world really is a key event in both the progression of this biography and the life of LBJ.
Caro's massive, unending biography of Lyndon Johnson's life continues in spectacular fashion in this book, the second volume in his Years of Lyndon Johnson series.
This volume covers the years in between Johnson's first (failed) attempt at a Senate position and his eventual victory over Coke Stevenson to earn one in 1949.
These were the years in which he took a backseat to politics and built up a fortune, strengthened his political ties, and prepared himself for his diabolical return to the campaign trail.As the first volume in this series hinted at, Johnson's story is a tale of manipulation, vigilance, ingenuity, political brilliance, insecurity, power, and absolute control.
Caro did the research and uncovered facts that had been buried for decades.Coming in at 412 actual reading pages (not counting notes and index) this volume is approximately half the length of Volume 1, The Path to Power.
This is Caro's thesis about the man.I have been discussing POTUS 35 with various friends and acquaintances ever since I finished the first volume in August.
I get it that being President is a hard job and they all make mistakes.The next volume, Master of the Senate, should be another eye-opener regarding how our upper legislative body works.
The second volume of The Years of Lyndon Johnson tells the story of LBJ's rise from a mere Congressman, one with little hope for significant advancement, to his unlikely election to the U.S. Senate.
The ability of Pulitzer Prize winning author Robert Caro to describe in such amazing detail the political maneuverings and the interwoven lives and activities of all the players kept me enthralled from start to finish.The Years of Lyndon Johnson is so much more than just a biography.
The Means of Ascent, the shortest volume of Robert Caro's LBJ series by far (at "just" 500 pages), continues in this vein, describing Johnson's WWII service (an uneventful term as a naval inspector and intelligence officer, capped by a single combat mission he blew into an act of epochal heroism), his struggle to find a footing in postwar, post-FDR Washington (he did not get along with Truman at all), and most of all his successful Senate run against Coke Stevenson in 1948.
It's hard to come away from this volume, in particular, without thinking Johnson a cad, though in fairness Caro's careful to frame his actions as relatively normal for its time and place.

In my view the best of the 3 Caro books on Johnson. (All are great.) He made me care about Coke Stephenson someone I'd never heard of before. I'm just hopefully Caro stays healthy enough to finish this wonderful series.
I loved this book. I was halfway through a long review when I inadvertently obliterated it with the heel of my hand. I'm too frustrated right now to reconstruct my work.
While this book does explore his work in the House as well as his "service" (such as it was) during World War II, most of the book is about the Senate Democratic party primary elections in Texas in 1948 where LBJ ran against former Texas governor and old-fashioned political figure Coke Stevenson.
In almost excruciating detail, Caro shows how, bit by bit, using absolutely any means, legal and illegal, LBJ destroyed what had been Stevenson's golden reputation as a man who could not be bought and, in the process, managed to "buy" for himself the Democratic nomination, insuring he would win the US Senate election in Texas which essentially had only one party in those days).
Stevenson's allies may have cheated in their own districts, but it is clear from Caro's research that Johnson won the election only because of very clear and fairly inept fraud in South Western Texas, the kingdom of the Duke of Duvall (a corrupt local politician out of Robert Penn Warren's "All the King's Men" who used patronage and corruption to maintain power for decades).
Obviously, the Johnson-Stevenson clash could not but appeal to William Hague, after having been trounced by the most successful practitioner of "new" politics in the UK, Tony Blair.Although the heart of the book is the 1948 election, Caro reveals much about Johnson's military service and business activities.
Finished: 19.08.2018Genre: non-fictionRating: C+#ccspin nr 18Conclusion:This book was about LBJ but it did spur me on...to learn more about the defeated candidate in the 1948 race for Texas senator...'Coke' Stevens and the democratic political bossthat put LBJ in the 1948 senate:The Duke of Duval...George Berham Parr #MeanerThanABarnyardDogReview
Enthralling and disturbing book, which covers the period from 1941 until the 1948 Texas Democratic senatorial primary, between Lyndon Johnson and Coke Stevenson. Caro chronicles Johnson’s “utter ruthlessness . . . and a seemingly bottomless capacity for deceit, deception and betrayal.” The title brilliant captures not just how LBJ ascended to power, but also on the age-old debate over ends and means—how the dark features of LBJ’s character meshed with and ran parallel to virtuous initiatives. The Vietnam War along with the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965 are clear examples.
(Sometimes entire paragraphs are listed from the previous book.) Caro did this to remind the reader of crucial aspects of Johnson’s character but, when reading the books back to bad, it really feels repetitive and slows the pace.Chapter 6 is a terrific look at crony capitalism.
“He was also the only man in the state’s history who had held all three of the top political posts in state government: Speaker, Lieutenant Governor, Governor.” And he served an unprecedented two consecutive terms as Speaker: the only man in Texas to ever succeed himself as Speaker.This mini-biography alone is nearly worth the entire purchase of the entire book.Chapters 9–16 chronicle the 1948 Senate election.
Like all great biographies, "Means of Ascent" puts the Senate race in its proper historical context and the reader will learn a lot about the passage of history through the modernization of political campaigns.
LBJ was born to run a political campaign in Texas in 1948.
He spends incredible amounts of money on radio ads, where he smears Stevenson constantly.
Caro responded to that essay in the same publication but I didn't find it convincing that Coke Stevenson was the last moral politician in Texas.
You know that he's telling you how LBJ made money in the radio business for a reason.
Caro then spends a few chapters basically summarizing what happened in volume I The Path to Power.
This includes a chapter on Lady Bird and Johnson's despicable and harsh treatment of her.
Great work by Caro showing exactly how Johnson used his influence with the FCC to get favorable rulings and then using his connections with the firm of Brown and Root to line up advertisers for the station.
The bulk of the book focuses on Johnson's blatant theft of the 1948 Texas Senatorial primary election from former Governor Coke Stevenson.
As Caro painstakingly shows, in reality Johnson lost by several thousand votes.
Even with another projected volume added, it’s still too much, especially with 5/8 of the book devoted just to LBJ’s Senate run.Caro’s biography remains thematically about power, and Means of Ascent demonstrates just how far LBJ would go for it and how much it meant to him.
This harshness is even more apparent in Caro’s coverage of LBJ’s Senate race against popular governor Coke Stevenson.
One could certainly come to the view that LBJ was not appreciably better than Stevenson on matters of race (although as Caro as ably shown us, LBJ’s personal views were never as deplorable as his record).
But who also wages a negative campaign against his rival knowing he can get away with smears and lies because Stevenson won't engage.But then he is also prepared to utilise the corruption of Texas elections of the era to get him over the line.Whereas in Volume 1 Johnson's ruthless unpleasantness was balanced with what he achieved for those he represented, in Means of Ascent, it's all about personal ambition and his breathtaking ruthlessness.Somehow though there's still something compelling about Johnson - and I found myself willing him to succeed despite his amorality.Some of the events of 1948 are breathtaking - at one point one of LBJ's staff gets a Democratic Party Committee member to sign over a proxy vote for his boss during what appears to be a heart attack.
This is the third book I've read of the four Caro has, to date, written on Lyndon B.
Collectively, these books go far beyond telling the story of the life of Lyndon B.
They tell the story of an era through the lens of the life of LBJ.
In this one, it is Coke Stevenson, LBJ's opponent in the 1948 race for US Senator.
This provided context for the campaign for and the subsequent controversy of the 1948 Senate Democrat primary election, which Caro concludes (with pretty persuasive documentation) was stolen from Stevenson.
There can't be much still to be said about Robert A Caro's multi-volume study of Lyndon Johnson.
We now know so much about the life and times of LBJ that all other such surveys of America's Chief Executives feel skimpy by comparison - even A Scott Berg's 800 page opus on the life of Woodrow Wilson.
It feels as if we either know too much about Lyndon Johnson or not enough about everyone else.
If the former doesn't strike you as one of the finest encapsulations of biographical writing and the latter doesn't grab your attention like a finely wrought thriller then - unlike Robert A Caro's prodigious output - I am lost for words.
The race itself is fascinating, as LBJ brought modern politics and tactics (and money) to Texas for the first time, and the examination of all the different ways Johnson used these opportunities to bring his message and personality to the voters, along with tearing down the generally perfect image of Stevenson is incredibly interesting.Of course the most interesting about the election of '48 is the rampant corruption that was flowing around it: votes were bought and sold with abandon, in ways a modern reader will have trouble fully understanding.
Again I find myself amused by what Johnson is capable of doing to get power and his differences with his opponent Coke Stevenson who is the opposite of the pragmatism and ruthlessness of LBJ.The old vs the new is a current theme in this book and also it amazes me to know how close was LBJ from a complete failure in his political career, he took huge risks to his senatorial chance by using innovating methods (radio-helicopter), breaking the law and investing lots of money.What I get from R.
Caro books is not only a really well told story but also an understanding on how power really works and human nature.
Ch4 - Lady Bird (1933-1942) (P55 - 71) (Day 1: 05.21.2018)* She is the most interesting woman I have seen.
But she ate it, acted like she was treated with dignity.
* Her husband treated her bad.
I don’t know how that I want you to take, and see the people in the evening that you must see, but I guess with your methodical planning you can work it out.“* Maybe when it comes to personality, it is like xx said: the qualities are always there, it just was not allowed out.
Johnson belongs to that category was already striking in its first volume, The Path to Power, which over the course of its almost 1,000 pages paints a vivid and detailed portrait of the United States during the Depression era, a portrait which, while centred around the early career of an aspiring politician from Texas, provided a sharp-eyed analysis of the society and the political system Johnson lived and worked in.Means of Ascent continues in that vein, although the emphasis is somewhat different here: Not only does this second volume concern itself with only seven years in Johnson's life from 1941 to 1948 but he also sets out to make and prove a very specific point; where the first volume was a grand, panoramic painting, this one more resembles a narrative.To narrow the focus even more, Caro really only treats of two major events during the period of Johnson's life under scrutiny here.
Lyndon Johnson stole the election that made him a senator.
His dirty dealings changed the course of history; without this theft, the war in Vietnam, Medicare, voting rights, civil rights, and more would have had completely different outcomes.
The first chunk of this book, which covers Johnson's WWII "service," and post-war political career, is the best part.
The back chunk of the book, which deals with the courtroom shenanigans following the stolen election, are a little more dull, with long, detailed chapters in which Johnson barely figures as a character in his own narrative.
