https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1243899._
''ফরকের ভাঁজ আর রিবনগুলো ঠিকঠাক করে নিয়ে বুরাতিনোর হাত ধরে মেয়েটি তাকে নিয়ে এলো বাড়ির ভেতরে, মানুষ করার পালা শুরু। এক টুকরো খড়ি নিলো মেয়েটি, অংক শেখানো হবে। তোমার পকেটে দুটো আপেল..--বাজে কথা, একটিও নেই।আগে শোনো, ধৈরয ধরে বললো মেয়েটি। ধরে নাও, তোমার পকেটে দুটো আছে। কেউ তা থেকে একটা নিলো। কটা আপেল রইলো তোমার?--দুটো।ভাল করে ভাবো।বুরাতিনো এতোই ভাল করে ভাবলো যে কপাল কুঁচকে উঠলো তার। --দুটো..কেন?--আমি যে কোন 'কেউ'-কেই আপেল নিতে দেব না!''বুঝুন, কী বিচছু ছেলে! বিচছু তো বটেই। বুড়ো কারলোর ছেলে ছিলো বুরাতি
''ফ্রকের ভাঁজ আর রিবনগুলো ঠিকঠাক করে নিয়ে বুরাতিনোর হাত ধরে মেয়েটি তাকে নিয়ে এলো বাড়ির ভেতরে, মানুষ করার পালা শুরু। এক টুকরো খড়ি নিলো মেয়েটি, অংক শেখানো হবে। তোমার পকেটে দুটো আপেল..--বাজে কথা, একটিও নেই।আগে শোনো, ধৈর্য ধরে বললো মেয়েটি। ধরে নাও, তোমার পকেটে দুটো আছে। কেউ তা থেকে একটা নিলো। কটা আপেল রইলো তোমার?--দুটো।ভাল করে ভাবো।বুরাতিনো এতোই ভাল করে ভাবলো যে কপাল কুঁচকে উঠলো তার। --দুটো..কেন?--আমি যে কোন 'কেউ'-কেই আপেল নিতে দেব না!''বুঝুন, কী বিচ্ছু ছেলে!
বিচ্ছু তো বটেই। বুড়ো কার্লোর ছেলে ছিলো বুরাতিনো, থাকতো সিঁড়ির তলার একটা খুপরিতে। ছেলেকে বানিয়েছিল সে বন্ধু জুসেপ্পের দেওয়া এক টুকরো কাঠ থেকে। সেই কাঠের ছেলের ছিলো ভীষণ লম্বা, ছুঁচালো একটা নাক। কি, চেনা চেনা লাগছে?
According to the author, as a child, he had read the famous Italian fairy tale book Pinocchio by Carlo Collodithen having lost his book, he has started re-imagining it many years later for bedside stories for his children.
I don't know what it is but, the story is super cute, you want to read it again and again, it's a gift for my nephew to read when he gets older, but poor me, I still have it in my bookshelf :)  Buratino and Malvina (yes, there's an animated movie!) **Highly recommended to anyone and specially for those who enjoy children's fiction, fairy tales.
Приключения Буратино я прочел раз десять. А может пятнадцать)))У меня даже любимый анекдот из Приключения Буратино: Ещё 10 000 ведер, и золотой ключик наш! -- Дуремар
Una din cărțile mele de suflet, pentru că a fost probabil cartea pe care am recitit-o de cele mai multe ori în prima copilărie.
Da, e “doar” o repovestire a lui Pinocchio, dar pentru mine Cheița de Aur a fost întotdeauna cartea mai bună.
Și din cauza ei am ajuns la Căluțul Cocoșat, Aventurile lui Habarnam, Doctorul Aumădoare și câte altele (da, rușii se pricep de minune la literatura pentru copii).Am recitit-o și cred că ingredientele esențiale care au transformat-o într-o poveste clasică sunt 1.
Книгата е изплагиатствана напълно от "Приключенията на Пинокио" на Карло Колоди. :(Като малък много се чудех, как е възможно, една и съща книга да има двама различни автори.Сега вече знам, защо и как, за съжаление...
Моя первая самостоятельно прочитанная книга.
My dream of becoming a writer of adventure stories germinated in my mind upon reading this book at the age of eight. It provided me a panoramic view of an adventurous life. I was completely thrilled by A.Tolstoy's narrative style, his richly drawn characters and his fertile imagination.This book has exposed me with exhilerating feelings and engenderd my passion for literature.
Ok, Buratino seamana groaznic de tare cu Pinochio. asa ca am si euo intrebare: cine pe cine a copiat?
The first 16 chapters of “The Little Gold Key” are a retelling of the first 19 chapters of Carlo Collodi’s “Pinocchio”. After that, the Adventures of Burattino revolve around the little gold key and the rest of the story is quite different from that of “Pinocchio”. The other major difference is the absence of any moralizing that is such a strong feature of “Pinocchio”, making it simply an exciting adventure. Great illustrations by Alexander Koshkin.
Безумовно це одна з головних дитячих книжок радянського дитинства.
What an amazing Children's adventure novel! This was so much fun, it was just the exact amount of surreal that it was still kind of believable. I liked how it was written, how all of the characters were really dramatic or very dumb or extremely old. It was very fast and easy, I loved the illustrations. I also liked all of the fighting scenes, which weren't epic but funny, because it was dolls against humans and talking animals. A lot of fun, epic adventure and a happy ending to make up a wonderful children's book!
charming but doesn't compare to olesha's 'three fat men'
One of the positives memories from my childhood!
O altă variantă a lui Pinocchio . O carte draguță !
Aceasta a fost una din cărțile mele favorite din copilărie și chiar dacă acum ,la 19 , nu mi se mai par atât de fantastice, aceste cărți ,ca pe vremuri tot mă bucur să le lecturez.
Ένας μικρός ξύλινος Μπουραττίνο στην θέση ενός άλλου Πινόκιο και μια εναλλακτική εκδοχή του παραμυθιού με απίστευτα γλαφυρές περιγραφές και ευφάνταστες λεπτομέρειες.Ο συγγραφέας, τελικά, του " Ιβάν του τρομερού," κρύβει ένα υπέροχα ταλαντούχο παιδί μέσα του και κάνει και όλους όσους το επιθυμούν να μοιραστούν τα συναισθήματα και να ονειρευτούν μαζί του.
Pinochio in varianta ruseasca.Chiar am indragit aceasta carte.
jiju
Truyện con nít :)
A great read for children between 5 and 13, this book is fast-paced and entertaining and ends with an unexpected twist.
...read ~10 times I think when I was 5 - loved it.
Προτιμώ τον άλλο Πινόκιο. Και τον άλλο Τολστόι.
Very interesting tale. Russian Pinochio so to speak.
Haha, Goodreads suggested this as a book I might like and it turns out, I already do.
როდის ან რატომ უნდა მოგბეზრდეს :D *_*
Tolstoy's version of Collodi's Pinocchio. It has always been one of my favourites when I was a child. <3
Bērnam pirms miega, lasot tika izlaisti vai pamainīti vairāki parupji vārdi (bet nu īsti vienalga nepatika :D)
