https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/221319.Lanterns_on_the_Levee
Later he attended college in Sewanee and the Harvard Law School, eventually following his father into the life of a country lawyer and civic leader.Bravely answering the call of WWI, he sought service on the front, and, after trying months spent fighting the bureaucracy that would have had him spend the war as an instructor, found it.
Being as lack of resources and education denied the black Delta folk the chance to record their own stories, Percy did a great service to posterity in putting a number of them in his book; they form some of its most entertaining portions.
For years, my family boasted that we are related to William Alexander Percy, "famous writer and poet of the South," but I didn't know anyone who had read any of his work.
This is the kind of material that inspires me to write - now if I only had a smidge of Percy's gift of prose!
Having grown up in the Louisiana Delta, I feel a connection with Percy's experiences, though he published this 19 years before my birth.
Read this book for a Southern plantation owner's perspective and enjoy remarkable imagery in Percy's writing.
A fine elegiac piece by a one of the last of his class... A memoir of growing up in the Mississippi as a member of a dying planter class--- by a scion of a liberal Southern family whose biography (poet, planter, decorated combat soldier, sometime lawyer, traveler, admirer of beautiful boys) is worth a novel and and a film...
Percy dynastyWilliam Percy writes about his life in Greenville, Mississippi as part of a well known dynasty. A southern white supremacist poet and world traveler in the early 20th century, he shares in a sensitive style.
Contains much truth, yet definitely antiquated: "[O]n the other hand, it is hardly proper to judge a man's views on the issues of his day by the ideological fashions of another age." Percy saw the modern age as the Götterdämmerung of Western (and particularly Southern) values.
A snapshot of a different time with a doc view on life.
Percy, in fact, talks quite fondly of several specific blacks that he associated with during his younger years and well into his adult life.
Even when he was well into his fifties, while writing the autobiography, he harks upon several acquaintances, I doubt he would ever call them close friends or family, that were African Americans.The book is dated now, only a few decades away from 100 years old, but still belongs on any historians shelf or any person that wonders as to why or how humans beings justified such a horrid condition as slavery and then segregation.
Percy writes a long poetic chapter about Sewanee that makes its way into every publication that the University releases.
Percy is a poet, and his sentimental turns of phrase are simply beautiful.
I think that I have probably lost some of my love for the book since I have moved back to Colorado, and since I realized that I was not going to be a poet.
If you can realize that that chapter is a product of the author’s time, I think that you will enjoy the book.
A beautiful and elegiac memoir from a confessed "planter's son." Percy's evocative prose creates a vivid picture of a certain time and place, the Mississippi Delta of the late 19th and early 20th century, and the characters who inhabited it.
Although his racial attitudes were considered moderate and even liberal for the time, from the vantage point of the 21st century, they are stereotypical and condescending.
Percy's view of his own actions during the Flood of 1927 should be compared with historical accounts such as Rising Tide.
This heartfelt, beautifully written, and sometimes touching memoir by a self-described Mississippi aristocrat makes exasperating reading today because of its condescending racial attitudes. Percy's family's courageous fight against the KKK and his disingenuous presentation of his role in historical events like the flood of 1927 should invite further reading to illuminate the book and its author in the context of their times. The excellent forward by Percy's renowned nephew, Walker, goes a long way in doing this. John M. Barry's Rising Tide is a worthwhile companion piece.
A Southern memoir full of insights from the poetic mind of a man writing from his Mississippi life in the early 20thC. A must read simple for the southern prose. The turn of phrases hardly found north of Atlanta are 5 stars.Some telling of strife between Whites and Blacks is authentic and sad- the times they are achangin.
A book to be read slowly, an autobiography of a southern aristocrat and his philosophies on life, World War I, southern life, slavery, and the future, note originally published in 1941, so the future as seen at that time. Recommended to me as a favorite from others, a very good read, thought provoking with good, subtle humor.
Lanterns on the Levee is the autobiography of William Alexander Percy. He gives a very interesting look at life in Mississippi in post civil war times through the early 1900's. The book was published in 1941. He has some different ideas on civil rights. I enjoyed the book and the insights he has. At times I didn't understand everything he was saying.
The parts about the 1927 flood were what I was after. I wasn’t looking for genteel and elegant writing, but its presence was enough to hold my interest reading about the South and his early-life. The end of the book, after the flood, sinks into white supremacy and is best skipped.
Though rationalized as consistent with the era in which he grew up, this memoir is notable for the paternalism toward African-Americans and outright racism presented as sociological insights. Sadly, the views expressed by Percy are still pervasive in the South.
A true giant of Southern fiction.
this is a great memoir of living along the Mississipp in the 20s-30s. even contains a recipe for mint juleps!
Probably 3.5. Will write a longer review soon.
The final two chapters deserve a rating of "5"!
I could read and re-read this one. In fact, I would love to own the 1941 edition.
reading this is part of being a Mississippian
