https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1549150.No_Mean_City
I would complain, like the lazy, chubby little American boy that I was, but I nonetheless enjoyed accompanying him as he stopped and chatted with the people around the city and shared his days with me.Despite my fond memories of visiting Glasgow as a youngster, I never became truly fascinated by its history and culture until the death of my mother a few years ago.
Even those characters like Peter who attempt to achieve respectability through hard work ultimately end up succumbing to their socialization, resorting to violence and drunkenness when things don't go their way.
It describes the gritty Gorbals slums of the pre-war era (1920s/ 30s) and the razor gangs therein.
The struggles of those who live in the slums and their desire to move onto better things and how they seem to be thwarted by the collective consciousness that you’re somehow a ‘snob’ if you want to get on in life.
I’m a child of the 80s Thatcher era, which had it’s own fair share of struggles for some, but this book still hugely appeals to me and I have read it several times and will continue to do so throughout my life.
I found it to be quite horrendous in places, particularly in the gang mentalities and how difficult it was for people to get into an education or a career which would be good enough to allow them to escape the slums.
Very few people have ambitions; many are content to just soldier on with what they have been given.I didn't find this to be well written, but I think it overcomes this with its brutal and frank social observations.This is definitely worth a look, particularly if you are familiar with the Glasgow area.
It's harrowing in places, and definitely cutting edge, but I’d recommend it.
No Mean City is a 1935 work of fiction that tells of life in The Gorbals district of Glasgow, Scotland.
The main character, Johnnie Stark, sees no future beyond The Gorbals and instead fashions his life around being 'top dog' in the dank and miserable arenas that are the tenement buildings and miserable public houses.
I waited for a worthy adversary and thought several times that I was going to get one, but instead read what often feels more like an education in Gorbals life of low-level crime, hooliganism and down-trodden women.
The books insights into Gorbals life in the 20s and 30s make it an interesting but not an exceptional read.
I did not finish this book, not because of the story line or writing because what I did read of it was very good, I just could not understand or get away with the very broad Scottish dialect which made the continuity of reading very difficult. I may come back to it one day - it's a shame because the story was rolling along quite nicely.
Having grown up in Maryhill In Glasgow and spent 25 years in the city I recognise the culture but not the time. Glasgow has moved on but you could still find this aspect if you so wished. I love Glasgow it' is a hard city but with a big heart.
An exciting enough story from a historically fascinating time in Glaswegian history but unfortunately flawed in that it feels more like an anthropological study by an outsider than it does a recounting of the author's own life as a Glaswegian. Where a more modern Scottish author like Irvine Welsh is unapologetic in his language and the culture, here it comes with translation for a more Anglo-friendly reading. Although it might sound trivial, this problem was quite symbolic of the book. I felt the characters were looked down upon slightly and never really redeemed from their flaws and misfortunes.
This book at been on my radar for years now and I have finally gotten around to reading it.
It is a brutal account of the Stark family's life in the poverty stricken slums of Govan, Glasgow.
The 2 Stark brothers Peter and Johnnies rise to power in the most different ways.
It's a horrifying and disturbing look at life less than 100 years ago in Glasgow.
"The Razor King" fights and slashes his way through life, men, women he has no regard to who comes under his razor.
That aside it gives a glimpse into life at that time, dance halls, cinemas, pubs and illegal drinking dens.
Set in the Gorbals of Glasgow in 1920's, this is a quite horrendous insight into the gang mentallity especially of their leader, the Razor King, truely a product of his environment.
A few tried to escape through education and hard work.
Johnnie the Razor King and his wife Lizzie must have been the 'neighbours from Hell' with their gang who could put 2000 men on the street for the 'big fight' and yet his eventual end brought a feeling of 'there but for the grace of God goes I'.
Would we have escaped their fate any better?
A family of eleven sharing a two roomed apartment in Glasgow is hopefully consigned to history.
More’s the pity however there is still much to identify with in the protagonists.
The class conscious attitudes to ambition, respect and politics remain familiar to Glasgow 100 years later."Whit dies it matter to the heid yins what happens in Gorbals or Bridgeton of Garngad or Anderston, or in any other bliddy slum in Glasgow for that matter, so long as we keep quiet?
No biddy fears!
They need waking’ up once in a while, and it’s fellows like Razor King that makes them remember we’re alive.”
A rather depressing book dealing with the dark side of Glasgow's slum world, in one of it's most infamous and toughest neighbourhoods, the Gorbals. Johnnie "the Razor King" Starks is the despicable gangster who loves to fight with razor blades and pummelling every woman in his life, a real charmer. Glasgow has its hard history, and this book goes out of its way to glorify it.
No book is more associated with the city of Glasgow than No Mean City. First published in 1935, it is the story of Johnnie Stark, son of a violent father and a downtrodden mother, the "Razor King" of Glasgow's pre-war slum underworld, the Gorbals. The savage, near-truth descriptions, the raw character portrayals, bring to life a story that is facinating, authentic and convincing
Very interesting insight to Glaswegian culture in the 1920s and beyond.
A strong evocation of a time and a place, while also a timeless depiction of the harsh, hopeless nature of poverty.
Gritty & hopeless. I thought the story was quite fascinating and love the depictions of life in the slums. It was a real eye opener. The whole book left me feeling sad though.
One of my all time favorite reads.
Glasgow as it was, and sometimes still is. If you love hard city with a soft heart then you must read this classic book.
Unsavoury and sensational. An exercise in naturalism without artistic pretensions but of documentary interest.
Ugh, badly written and sensationalist.
