https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/736350.The_Little_Red_Hen
When the idea had been developed, the little red hen asked her friends, "Who will help me implement the code?""Not I," barked the lazy dog."Not I," purred the sleepy cat."Not I," quacked the noisy yellow duck."Then I will," said the little red hen.
When the experiments had all been run, the little red hen asked her friends, "Who will help me write the paper?""Not I," barked the lazy dog."Not I," purred the sleepy cat."Not I," quacked the noisy yellow duck."Then I will," said the little red hen.
First sentence: Once upon a time there was a little red hen who shared her tiny cottage with a goose, a cat, and a dog.
Premise/plot: This is a traditional telling of The Little Red Hen illustrated by Lucinda McQueen.
I like the illustrations very much.
I particularly love the illustrations of the cat and the dog.
The text is traditional.
There are no big surprises with the text.
The Little Red Hen doesn't have a change of heart, she doesn't decide to share with the cat and the dog.
Text: 3 out of 5Illustrations: 4 out of 5Total: 7 out of 10
Summarize the book:This is the classic story about a little red hen who works hard to make a loaf of bread.
Identify specific concepts that could be integrated into the classroom:Reading this story in the classroom, we can talk about the importance of jobs and what types of jobs the little red hen had to complete by herself.
Children can talk about the different types of jobs they help their parents with at home.Offer any other suggestions that would be useful regarding literary content, reading level, and other ways in which the book might be integrated.You can also incorporate writing by having children write about whether or not they would help the little red hen and have them explain their reasoning.
-I don't care for the moral all that much, what a passive aggressive brat this hen is--as in--this book does not teach children to assert their needs and communicate their needs clearly so that they can get their needs met.-This book is more entertaining than some of the other versions of this story so 1 1/2 stars!
The classic tale of the Little Red Hen is known by many, but never gets old.
The tale captures a Little Red Hen who works hard to make bread and asks her friends to help her.
Time and time again the hen asks who will help her and time and time again she completes the work herself.
In the end, she asks who will help her eat the bread.
The Little Red Hen learns just want friendships should be about.
In this tale the friendship virtue that is portrayed is that friends are always there for you.
We are looking at this book in the Nursery setting I’m in.
It’s a good book for engaging nursery children as there is a lot of repetition which helps the children pick the story up quicker and helps with engagement too.
There is also quite a nice storyline behind it which helps children to understand that if you don’t help/ take part in something you can’t expect to reap the benefits of that work.
In this edition there are three friends who the hen asks, the dog, cat and goose which helps simplify it for use of storytelling and story mapping.
This is a classic folk tale that has been told for years. This story is always good to read to young children to teach them a lesson through story telling. This story goes to show that you shouldn't ask for a hand out and that if you want something, then you must work to go get it. The basic motto of this story is if you don't do the work, then you won't get the prize!
It teaches hard work, sure. But it fails to teach sharing. And also fails to teach communication of needs.
"I will just have to eat this bread by myself"Doesn't she deserve the same?
Great book! Shows kids that they need to work to get a reward! I love this book!
Great valuable lesson for students to understand the meaning of being a helper
This is the story of a lazy dog, cat, and goose who take advantage of their friend the hen. I would recommend this book for k-2. The story teaches children that if they do not help with something then they will not be able to reap the awards. It also teaches them to work with one another and to be responsible. This story would be a good tool for teaching sequencing, with the steps of making bread.
At each stage the little red hen requests te help of her friends but they all refuse.
However when it comes to eating the bread, she asks them once again and the cat, goose and dog all want to eat the bread but the hen at this point refuses and eats the bread all by herself.One of the most enjoyable parts of the book for the children is when each animal’s say ‘Not I…’ because it gives the class the chance to join in by saying ‘Not I’ along with the teacher.
The hen gives her friends multiple opportunities to help her bake the bread but each time she asks for help, everyone just tells her no.
When the hen finally bakes the bread, all of her friends want to eat some of it.
The hen doesn’t share her bread with them though because nobody helped her make it; however, she says if they help next time then she will share with them.
The e-book does engage the reading further by having the option to have words read aloud.
This would help the young readers when they’re having trouble knowing what a word says.
Goose, dog and cat all refused to help Little Red Hen do the work, but they want to eat the bread.
Little Red Hen explains that since she did all the work she would eat the bread herself.This book would be appropriate to share as a read aloud or an early reader with Spanish speakers between the ages of three and six.
Children will enjoy the repetition in the story and will enjoy Little Red Hen's response to her lazy room mates.
The book would be appropriate to develop narrative skills in young readers.
This classic Russian Folktale is an excellent addition to my K folktale text set.
Looking at the lesson of how working hard pays off in the end, the little red hen asks all her friends for help only to do all the work on her own.
In the end when the bread is ready they are all willing to "help" her eat the bread but she teaches them a lesson by saying that because she did all the work on her own, she will eat the bread all on her own as well.
This is a story about 4 animals who are all different than each other.
The cat is very vain, the dog is very sleepy, the hen who is willing to put the work in, and the duck.
In this story the dog, cat and duck will not help hen to do anything with the wheat or bake the bread but once it comes time to eat the bread, everyone wants to participate.
Hen doesn't let any of the three animals eat any because they didn't help.
this is about a hen that is making a loaf of bread and asks her friends for help.
All of her friends say no to her so she does it by herself.
When the loaf is done all her friends want a piece.
I gave this book four stars because I remember reading this in grade school.
I love the illustrations and the themes which include sharing and helping others.
this book would be a perfect read out loud for first graders and good for them to think about helping others and sharing.
The Little Red Hen always asks her friends(dog, cat, mouse) for help before she does anything. But they all refused to help and once the hen made a delicious bread and asked who would like to help her eat it, everyone volunteered. But then, the Hen said no and ate it all by herself. I can read this book in class and have students talk about what the dog, cat, and mouse could have done instead of not helping. So we can discuss about different ways we can help other students in class to build a community.
I feel this is a more simplified version compared to the golden book series. There are three simple characters that do each have distinguished characteristics that play into why they wont help the little red hen. As the story goes, reap what you sow. The little red hen eats all the bread that she made and doesn't share it with the other because they didn't help. This is a great story to use for plot, setting, problem/solution, etc. It is also a great story that shows the value of working hard.
The Little Red Hen is geared towards young children to teach them that helping is important. The pictures are colorful and easy to follow the story line. In this book Hen does all the work while her friends keep telling her that they will not help, but once the bread is ready to be eaten they all want some. Hen decides to tell her friends that because they did not help in the making of the bread they do not get any and she will eat it all by herself.
This book teaches children that they should always help their friends. Shows children that even when our friends don't help us we can still do the work ourselves. Also it teaches that if we want to eat the bread then we need to help our friends in the process of making the bread. This book is good because it teaches children the process of making bread and how you have to follow each step to make the bread.
I prefer a new version were everybody works together to make a delicious breed. The animals and the chicken, at the end, all together eat and have a good reward for their hard work. Or maybe, the animals will decide one by one to help the red chicken with all the hard work. During the history when they see her work just because is ok to change your mind.
This is a great book for sequencing the way wheat is harvested/how bread is made. can be interesting because its a common food, relevant. Book also shows how it is important to work together, being a part, and being fair. little red hen worked hard to plant, harvest and baked the bread with no help from her friends so she did not share with them in the end.
This is a great book about friendship, little fed hen was nice enough to share his room with the cat, dog and goose, but they never returned his kindness. But they want to eat the bread when she was done with all the hard work.This is just like a family or community, every one should be responsible and helpful.
This classic book tells the story of the little red hen and all her hard work to make some bread. The little red hen wants to make some bread but no one wants to help. After the bread is made and her not-so-helpful friends come knocking, should the little red hen share her bread? This is a great story to teach sequencing to students. It's also great to show that hard work pays off.
A hen, goose, dog, and cat live on a farm. All but the hen is lazy and does not want to help do anything. The hen is left to do everything herself. When she is finished and has a huge reward for all her hard work all the other animals want to share with her. But she does not share because they did not help.
Great discussion starter about the value and importance of work. How life is better overall when you do the hard work up front (do the hard work of school etc..., relatively easier time at life in the long run as opposed to lazy with school and prep for life, very hard time getting through life in long run)
Loved the story of the Little Red Hen when I was a child. Great moral to the story. If you want something you work for it, or learn when growing up. It could be the smallest task, but you will get rewarded.
This is the classic story of a hard-working hen and her lazy friends. This story is a great story for teaching character traits. It can also be used for students to predict what will happen when the hen bakes the bread.
