https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/376494.Herself_Surprised
”A good cook will always find work, even without a character, and can get a new character in twelve months, and better herself, which, God helping me, I shall do, and keep a more watchful eye, next time, on my flesh, now I know it better.” The Dell paperback cover. The poor lass will catch a chill.Sara will be known by many names in her lifetime, but the one that seems to stick is Mrs. Sara Monday. She is writing her story from a prison cell, and though she admits some fault in her circumstances
BOOM!In a few years, Sara is known as Mrs. Jimson, though she is not really Mrs. Jimson, but then that is a whole other story for you to read about.
After her husband dies and she has froliced around a bit with Mr. Jimson, she eventually finds herself working as a domestic again.
Joyce CaryI was putting the John Franklin Bardin book I’d just finished reading back on the shelf in my library when my eye caught the dust jacket of First Trilogyby Joyce Cary.
The second book, To Be a Pilgrim, focuses on the life of Tom Wilcher, otherwise known as the maid pincher.
The first time I read this book, I didn't think I liked it very much because it contains the character of Gulley Jimson, so captivating in The Horse's Mouth, but he isn't the focus of Herself Surprised, and I thought I wanted him to be.
I think it's funny, and very true-to-life, how she is constantly indulging herself in any way she likes while pretending that she has been trying to resist every sensual temptation.
Joyce Cary knows how to make profound character explorations & personality observations more delightful to read than anything in any more overtly humorous book I've ever read.
I remember being surprised that a man could create such a completely female character as Sara Monday, protagonist of the first novel in Cary's First Trilogy.
The interplay of the three central characters in the First Trilogy is the real payoff in reading Cary.
In this novel, Sara's view of Gulley is often at odds with the view of the first-person Gulley of The Horse's Mouth.
I've reread Herself Surprised and The Horse's Mouth several times, though I think the latter is my favorite of the three books.
"I thought that there were as many traps in humility as pride, and that the Devil's best hook was baited with confession."Sara constantly looks beyond others' transgressions and surface expression to find the good soul within, but never manages to see her own.
Still, she accepts what comes her way and makes the best and most of it.She has been sent to prison; the book begins and ends with her ruminations about this fact; and in the between of her own story and confessions, she tries to make sense of how she became criminalized.
Sara never blames others in her straightforward telling, even when the failures and faults of others put her in bad situations that lead her to trouble.
Sarah Monday, the protagonist of Herself Surprised is a wonderful character. She is everyman/woman in her loves, dishonesties and irrationality. Who couldn't relate to her while she does things she doesn't understand herself and hurts people she loves and only wants the best for? There are also beautiful passages where she loves and appreciates her life in the simplest things--her job as a cook with a well stocked kitchen, a beautiful garden. Cary has portrayed a wonderful, true-to-life-in-all-its-complexities woman.
His writing is beautiful, some examples -"For the sea itself, though gloomy from a boat, is always lively from the land.
Even if it should be flat, on a hot day, yet it always has a sparkle.
It never stops winking sunshine.
But when it has waves, then it is like a whole ballroom full of heads bobbing up and down, and you would think the waves falling on the sand were the swish of skirts in the old grand waltz, not too quick, but always turning."or"'So here I am,' I thought 'mistress of my own world in my own kitchen,' and I looked at the shining steel of the range and the china on the dresser glittering like jewels...
This is a joy of a book. Sara Monday is one of the most honestly created characters in English literature. She is at her most loveable when she is at her most despicable. I just couldn't help but love her, warts and all. She is probably more an Everywoman character more than most would like to admit.
An amazing character study showing the complexity of human nature... including how our world view influences how we see ourselves and others.
The judge, when he sent me to prison, said that I had behaved like a woman without any moral sense.Brilliant - the craic. 4.5*
Perhaps it's because I'm in love with the character of Gulley Jimson, who is central to The Horse's Mouth, but I felt that even though Cary's prose in wonderful in this book from the very beginning, it didn't really come alive until Gulley showed up.
Maybe that's because Sara, the central character of this book, is brought to life by her love for Gulley, and I think that's something which many readers and commentators miss.
(view spoiler)[ Her second married name, Jimson, suggests how she is ensnared by the evil forces of the world--Jimson weed is also known as Devil's weed, and is known for making people crazy if they consume it.
However, his temptations to her could not worked had she not had an inclination to evil to begin with; her realization of her own culpability (original sin?) is evidenced by her admission "that the seed of sin was in me from the time when I ran about wild in a pigtail and flirted with three boys at the same time, because I could not refuse any pleasure." (hide spoiler)] Yet, like Moll Flanders, she is admirable in her ability to keep going even when terrible things happen to her, and never to blame the world or other people for her troubles.
** SPOILERS**This book was very frustrating.
the writing is very good and the story is interesting but the the ideas behind the story are what frustrate me.
The story is about a woman who has three main relationships in her lifetime.
The first man was good to her but accused her of cheating on him which was not true.
The second man beat her and she thought she deserved it.
And the third man was her employer employer and took advantage of her sexually and she was okay with it.
She ended up in jail and thought she deserved it.
Wonderful distillation of the historical difficulties experienced by women. There is very little overly dramatic or melodramatic problems that arise here, but the everyday mundane issues that require constant compromise are shrewdly described and feel realistic. The realist aspect does however contribute to a fairly tedious read, and there is a bit of repetition with the cyclical return of an abusive lover which adds an unfortunate frustration.
book one of a trilogy... on to the next!
In this first book of Cary's First Trilogy, Sara Monday tells the story of her bumpy life with great verve. From the secure life with her husband to becoming the mistress of an obsessively selfish painter, Gulley Jimson, and on to housekeeping for a miserly lawyer, Sara rolls with the punches and never loses faith.
A clever character study written in an old-fashioned style that is highly readable and fluid. I was surprised, myself, at my capacity for appreciating and enjoying this book. I immediately got caught up in the fate of Sara. What a great character! She's a complicated mix of self-indulgence, accommodation and restraint. She's treated unjustly but she also takes advantage of others. (It's been decades since I read Moll Flanders, but there lingered in my mind a sense that there is some similarity?)
I expected more depth from this character. I didn't trust the author's voice about the character's motivation for her behavior. I suppose there are women who do things for the reasons Sara does, but I've never known anyone like her. It's part of a triptych - three novels that show the same events from three different perspectives, and perhaps the author just doesn't relate to her from inside her head. I thought I"d read the other two, but I'm not really motivated after this one.
I wasn't sure what to expect from this book as I was given it from someone getting rid of old books. Although it wasn't the most enjoyable read, it still contained some literary merit. But I do believe that a male author didn't quite grasp the female perspective with this one. What about her children? She hardly mentions them but to most women, it would be discussed much more than a broke, artistic bum...
Picked this up on the basis of the title, which I loved. Good read, although it felt a little dated. It was nice to read a novel wherein the heroine accepts responsibility for what befalls her. She is no-nonsense in that respect. You cannot always understand her motivations, but you respect her because she is honest and true to who she is.
Sara Monday tells us via Joyce Cary's lovely prose all about her vigorous, full, fun and foolish life. For example: 'She was a queer girl, a lady by her rights and as pretty as a supplement, though gypsy in her color, but as helpless as a sheep on her back, turning its eyes at the sky and bleating for the moon to drop grass into its mouth.'
The story in Herself Surprised will carry you along - there are some passages that are artfully descriptive but not always keeping with the character of Sarah through whom the story is told. Seems to accurately capture a time and place and way of life.
I loved this book... Mr. Johnson is one of the most memorable characters ever... Civil servant in Nigeria in the 50's... utterly corrupt and hilarious...Must read!!
unforgettable, heartbreaking and hilarious. Sounds like a cover blurb, but accurate.
lived up to expectations. on to #2 in the trilogy
