https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/192955.The_Proud_Tower
The Proud Tower, the chronological follow-up to The Guns of August, is a collection of eight previously-published essays written by Tuchman.
This isn’t like picking up Lawrence Wright’s newest book and finding out it’s just his New Yorker articles, which I read as they were originally printed.In terms of being a satisfying book, though, I’m not sure The Proud Tower entirely succeeds.
The Guns of August focused intently on August 1914 and the opening weeks of the Great War. The Proud Tower, on the other hand, is all over the place, hopping, skipping, and jumping from one topic to the next.
While from a proud tower in the townDeath looks gigantically down The City in the Sea – Poe. This book is really a collection of essays published separately in various journals. Any book tackling the social, political and artistic situation of the world in the couple of decades before it entered its first global war, could only offer a partial view. These essays offer a series of selected aspects of this bellicose universe seen through shifting points of view.There are considerable absences. Fo
Any book tackling the social, political and artistic situation of the world in the couple of decades before it entered its first global war, could only offer a partial view.
These essays offer a series of selected aspects of this bellicose universe seen through shifting points of view.There are considerable absences.
But the view also offers the realization that if these social tensions were felt in parallel in the countries Tuchman has selected, their logical international relevancy was poisoned by distorting nationalisms.
What could have been a series of revolutionary and coetaneous changes in domestic social pacts, marched instead into a political war against other nations.
The Proud Tower: Barbara Tuchman's View of the World on the Road to WarChannel FiringBY THOMAS HARDYThat night your great guns, unawares,Shook all our coffins as we lay,And broke the chancel window-squares,We thought it was the Judgment-dayAnd sat upright.
It is highly likely that we will find the need of a Beatrice for the war we will eventually explore was not a paradise, but a Hell as fiery as the first book of The Human Comedy.As we speak of Virgil we must think of a world of epic stature, that grew as great as Rome and fell just as surely as Rome.
The line between crusading progressive and mustachioed blowhard gets a little blurry after awhile, and it's hard to tell who the good guys are: Still needing a slide-rule to work out who the heroes were in the Dreyfus Affair, France's multi-tentacled meta-nationalist trial-of-the-century.
Kaiser Wilhelm II just knew this war was gonna be awesome.Clever trick author pulls by saving her socialism section for the end, unwinding the tale of irascibly brilliant cadre men and women dedicating their significant mental resources to the liberation of the international worker; taking Marx's admonishment against nationhood to heart, French, German, British and American intellectuals brainstorm for decades about the best way to improve the plight of the bottom strata of society.
The Proud Tower: A Portrait of the World Before the War 1890-1914 does not even bother to mention the First and Second Balkan Wars that took place in 1912-13 and radically altered the map of Europe.
Still and all, The Proud Tower is not only an essential book, but verges on being a great one.
Her chapters on the Dreyfus affair in France, the anarchists of Europe, on the rise and fall of the patrician politicians of England, and the strangeness of Kaiser Wilhelm II's Germany are classics.The title of the book comes from a poem by Edgar Allan Poe called "The City in the Sea":While from a proud tower in the townDeath looks gigantically down.This is the second time I've read The Proud Tower, which remains the classical study of the long, slow march to the War To End All Wars.
I remember this as an accessible account of the subject, with nice vignettes like Lord Salisbury being scooted around his garden in his bath chair.
The chapters of her stew include: 1) the status of the aristocracy in England, 2) the evolution of the anarchist movement, 3) America’s political struggles over its transition toward imperialism, 4) the Dreyfus Affair in France, 5) the attempt of the Hague peace conferences to establish as international court, 6) the ferment of culture and the arts in Germany, 7) the growth in power by the Liberal and Labor Parties in England, 8) the evolution of socialism in France, England, and Germany.
The war was so terrible (in the sense of striking terror in all who witnessed it) that rather than putting a clarifying lens on what had come before, it instead put rose coloured glasses on the nose of the world and people could only look back in wonder at what they now knew had been a golden age.
and how it fits with the problems for the Socialist movement in these pre-War years.The distinction between hope and despair is an interesting one, although as I've thought about it I’m starting to think it might not be a very useful distinction.
I had not previously read The Proud Tower probably because the era prior to World War I is of limited interest to me.
What better way to prepare myself for those books than to read Tuchman's nonfiction account of the era.World War I was so horrible that it causes many to look back on the pre-war era as being a Golden Age. The book's Foreword indicates that, "It did not seem so golden ...
The terror caused to this end by Anarchists of this era are summarized in the following quotation from the book:"...six heads of state were assassinated for its sake in the twenty years before 1914.
It paints a vivid and fascinating picture of the world in the period before World War 1.
We tend to forget just how many political leaders were assassinated during that period, and the important effect these actions had on society.My only real complaint is that she focuses almost exclusively on Europe and the US.
However, given where WW1 would take place and the actors involved, it's not surprising that she focuses where she does.All in all this is a fascinating book and one that should ideally be read by anyone planning on opining about the period or its cultural and historical heritage.
For me, the surprise in this essay was how many people were willing to martyr themselves for such a nebulous and seemingly aimless cause – under the gilding, the wood was rotting.End of a Dream – The United States: 1890-1902The focus of this chapter is the political shift in U.S. politics from isolationism to a player on the world stage.
The incident was an international embarrassment for France, as other European powers couldn’t believe that the French government would allow an obviously innocent man to languish in prison for life just so its military leaders could save face.
Written in 1962 about the period, approximately 1890-1914, leading to the start of WWI. Reading it now is at once surprising, and yet not, that despite the passage of 120+ years, two world wars as well as other numerous conflicts, many of the same issues and fights covered by Barbara Tuchman's excellent history still persist today. Nationalism, terrorism, the battles for a living wage, the richest in society against the rest, income inequality, us versus the foreigner, the blind stumbles into conflict; it's still with us.
Fascinating, authoritative, relevant, sweeping, insightful, well written, magisterial, and far too long.
THE PROUD TOWER. (1966). Barbara W. Tuchman. ****. In this highly researched and very readable book, the author examines what was going on in several countries just prior to WW I. Although she claims that other countries could have been picked, she decided on the final grouping using no real set of criteria other than interest to the general reader. “This book is an attempt to discover the quality of the world from which the Great War came...I have tried to concentrate on society rather than the
In this highly researched and very readable book, the author examines what was going on in several countries just prior to WW I.
“This book is an attempt to discover the quality of the world from which the Great War came...I have tried to concentrate on society rather than the state.” In her first chapter, “The Patricians: England 1895-1902, she examines the state of British government; who was running it and its constituency.
At the end, however, you will get an excellent picture of a country on the brink of a change that would be forced upon it by those not in power.
She examines the roots of the Spanish-American War and its consequences.
The last chapter is on “International Communism” with a good exposition of the trumping of nationalist borders over the Marxist myth of the “unity of the working class”.The section on the emergence of the Labour Party in England along with the fading of the English aristocracy was also of interest.The discussion of internal opposition to U.S. expansionism and imperialism to Cuba, the Philippines and Hawaii seemed to miss an essential point that the U.S. has always been expansionist.
I finished this book mostly out of moral obligation. You get to read about the anarchists, socialists, and upper 1% right before WWI. The Dreyfus affair was kind of interesting. It was like each, very long, chapter was a book in itself. I was hoping to get insight into Eastern-Europe (e.g. the Austrian Empire and Bohemia and Poland), but there was nothing there.
The reaction to these wrongs is covered in Tuchman's chapters on Anarchism and Socialism.In fact, by this time all of Christendom was in tension between two opposite ways of life.
The aristocracy had come into existence in the Middle Ages, assuming naturally the role of governing over (and for) the lower classes.
When the industrial revolution and the rise of the middle class came along, the stable system of peasantry, after a millennia or more, disappeared.
Prophets of doom like Marx sounded the trumpet, and laborers by the thousands joined the standard of Socialism.
"The worker" Marx said, "has no Fatherland." Actually, he did.
Tuchman seems best, to me, when she's describing an event, as in The Zimmermann Telegram; and although the individual chapters of The Proud Tower occasionally had the same kind of narrative thrust, overall, the 'portrait' style that she uses here does not seem to maximize her talent as an author.The fact is, there is no single 'story' to tell when covering this period.
Those who have already read very much covering this time period may find it too much of a glancing overview.
Anywhere you turned brilliance abounded.This past week on Bill McGlaughlins classical music program (NPR) his subject was primarily Richard Strauss (a God in the pantheon of Post Romantic composers) and his contemporaries.
At that point I still had no clue ‘The Proud Tower’ was by Barbara Tuchman whose only book I’d read was ‘The Distant Mirror.’ I was 20 and promptly dropped her from my litany of authors I want to pursue.While ‘The Proud Tower’ doesn’t fit my favorite year category, it comes close.
Each chapter deals with a thing centered in a specific country, whether it be the decline of the aristocracy in England, the political career of the Speaker of the House in the US, or culture in Germany.
If meant to show the lead-up to World War I, I would have thought Japan should at least merit a chapter.
It's also more English-centric than its billing suggests, but I'll forgive that as a fault endemic to most historians, who view things through their country's lens.The chapters are wildly uneven.
Out of all the political battles, brush fire wars, cultural events, why these specific ones?
Tuchman is famous for "guns of august" which probably established the concept of the popular history work.
I write "myth" because of course the world in 1890-1914 was composed of millions of unprotected workers, rather than the two hundred people at Le jardin de Luxembourg .
To some degree, this work is marred by an over-emphasis on Tuchman's specific concerns.
Further, other historians have done better coverage of the incipient decline of the great English aristocracy, and Dadism seems less examined than it might have been, also Tuchman does cover some aspects.Overall, a fine essay and examination of a world on the brink.
I don't know if just anyone will enjoy "The Proud Tower," since it deals with a very precise period in history, the Victorian Age in Britain, or the time leading up to the First World War. However, for me Tuchman's book, while not actually revelatory (her book on the origins of W.
W. I - "The Guns of August" - definitely was), proved well worth reading.
The period of world and particularly European history leading up to those August guns is endlessly interesting, since here was a world which in many ways, was closer to that of the 10th century, than the 20th.
Not a comprehensive "big-man" history of Europe before World War One, but a series of highly illuminating essays in Barbara Tuchman's inimitable erudite, yet accessible style.
Topics include the rise of Socialism and Anarchism; the tug-of-war between the culture of fin-de-siecle Vienna and the emergent political power of Berlin; trade unionism in the UK and how the English upper class preserved itself in a highly industrialized country.
Tuchman fans will love this one; if you aren't a Tuchman fan already, perhaps better to start off with a more standard history like The Guns of August or The Zimmermann Telegram, both of which take place chronologically just after this one.

It's a sound scholarly look at the period 1890-1914, focusing on the social movements within the powerful European nations & the United States that, according to Tuchman, set the stage for the outbreak of WWI.
Unfortuantely, Tuchman doesn't obviously tie her thesis (presented in the introduction) to the rest of the book, and thus her admirable work on issues such as international Socialism, the Dreyfus Affair, and the transition of power in Britain from the aristocracy to the middle classes all seems much more descriptive than analytical.
The book was not quite as fascinating to me as Guns of August has been, but then, that is really not much of a criticism, as Guns of August is a book one produces once a lifetime.This book surveys the portrait of Europe and America before the First World War; it presents chapters on England, the Socialists, the Anarchists, a chapter on the Dreyfus affair, and another on German music and culture.
Tuchman manages to bring it to life without sparing anyone or anything one of the funniest and most precise wits in the historical profession.
It amazes me that every time I read one of Tuchman's books I realize how utterly ignorant I am oh history.
How it seems that most of these documentaries seem to only focus on wars and school history books don't teach one must of anything.
After reading Tuchman's books I realize that school history books are made to go through the motions of teaching, without upsetting carefully contrived political believes that are easily shattered if one actually knows history.
These will make you realize how little you truly know and thus become educated as happened to me.
The Proud Tower is a series of loosely connected summaries of key political, economic and cultural movements of the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
She deftly jumps from the world of English aristocrats to the subversive movements of anarchists and socialists; from a who’s who of the world’s military and political elite at the Hague Conferences to the influence of the prominent musical composers of the age; from the intrigue of the Dreyfus Affair to intricate battles over parliamentary reform.
The Proud Tower offers a menu of delicious appetizers that while enjoyable, leave the reader tempted to explore the era’s events and prominent figures more thoroughly.
Tuchman knew her stuff, but this was fairly dry and thus a bit uneven. I found the chapters concerning the Dreyfus affair in France and Strauss and Germany much more interesting than the others (although the anarchist one was fairly interesting as well). Some of that is my problem; parliamentary/congressional politics don't interest me as much as social history or autocratic rulers.
This was the first book I ever read about Europe just prior to the first world war. Tuchman's accessible style and choice of topics representative of the period inspired the reading of her book about the onset of the war itself, The Guns of August, immediately thereafter.Decades later, in 1990, I reread the thing.
