https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/836512.Ageless_Body_Timeless_Mind

For someone who is conscious only of the material world, power is limited to material forces..." OK I find this very reasonable both intellectually, psychologically and even spiritually.
Immortality dawns when you realize that you deserve your place in the eternal flow." This seems more anthropocentric and to be honest an unsuccessful attempt to fuse science and spirituality which is like trying to join a solid to a liquid or drink soup with a fork.Yes the way we think and our emotional lives have an effect of our physical bodies.
Yes faith and belief has an effect on us both physically and emotionally.
إنها حالة على جانب كبير من الأهمية يمكن أن يتوصل إليها الإنسان إذا آمن بأن الزمن لا ينتهي أو يتوقف، و بث هذا الشعور في خلايا جسمه، فبعث فيها حيوية جديدة و سعادة غامرة بعيداً عن القلق و الخوف اللذين يأتي بهما الوقت الإمتدادي - نهرم ثم نموت -!)).
I enjoy Chopra's books. As a western trained medical doctor (that specialized in endocrinology) I like his take on eastern & western philosophy. This book defines the mind/body/spirit connection and that "you are what you think".... Biostat 29 baby!!!
I started reading this book hoping this one will be a little bit better than his other books.
To go through the routine he suggested, one must be wealthy enough to support two maids or have a slave-like wife who does nothing but her husbands biddings.
I doubt any husband will do the same for his wife.
Secondly,I grew up in India and met plenty of men who followed similar regimens with the help of maids, wives, and daughters.
I doubt that they lived any longer or had respect of others.
Most of them were cranky old men obsessed with themselves.
Deepak Chopra offers us nothing new in this book. He simply reinforces practical ideals for living a long, healthy life, body and soul. Great book to read and discuss.
What a treasure of a book!
Chopra is a wise man of our times and presents his thoughts/ideas in such a practical way.
It was timely to read this book as John and I are now in the older generation.
He reminds us that yes, the years go on but disease is what makes us older and much disease is preventable.
He also reminds us that all of our life experiences are stored in our cells and there are many ways to bring healing and restoration to old "tapes", etc.
2)Every Tuesday morning I will devote to writing my memoirs and a book.
This is slightly a different type of self-help book where he is specifically dealing with the concept of aging of human body and how we can have better control over it.He has used research results from various fields as well as examples of societies from all over the world to show that aging process is not same for everybody.
His thoughts are that we human beings should be aware of our own aging process and being in touch with our own self and making some slight adjustments to our life-style itself can improve our health and help us to age better.
In this wonderful book (a must!), Deepak Chopra explains in a very understandable way and from A to Z, the difference between growing old and growing sick, being the last one, the accepted condition in our Western cultures for anyone over 45 years old, but amazingly, this does not have to be...
The moment we understand that the nature of our awareness is timeless, this process of growing old can stop and even reverse.
من البداية ضُحك علي حين ذهبت للبيت ودققت النظر قليلاً تحت العنوان الرئيس؛ "....
البديل الثوري لمكافحة الشيخوخة و التقدم في السن" هكذا فعلوا بي و بالسن على غرار مكافحة الحشرات!!
نسيت أمراً وجدتني قد كتبت على جبهة الكتاب قبل الإبحار على متنه: " شدني كثيراً هذا العنوان والمؤلف معاً، العنوان الذي يشبه عناوين كتب الإدارة المملة والمبتذلة ولكن هذا طب و تلك إدارة، إذا احتملت الإدارة وجهات النظر فالطب لا، لا يفعلها كما أظن ، و المؤلف بعتبار أول مرة اقرأ له ، و عبارة " الأكثر مبيعاً" دعاية رخيصة لا تنطلي علي ،،، العنوان ذو ترف فكري والمؤلف هنا يعرض دواء غير منطقي إلا إذا أوقف الزمن و فعله أو أن أكون عشريني في السبعين ...
This is an exceptional book, at least for me. I read this book around ten years ago and the book made great impression on me. Once I started the book, I could not leave it before I finished. The connection between science and spirituality, body and mind has never been written better. I still use many of the principles in my articles and books.
Today is a turning point in my life. Today I finished this guide.I'll remember today, the day everything changed.This isn't a book, it's a legacy of wisdom, handed down from the ancient sages, expressed through the eloquence and clarity of Deepak Chopra's words.
A new way of looking at aging but a bit too much quantum physics for me!

Cleared the myth that suffering is necessary. It is a part of reality. We are inevitable victims of sickness, aging and death. Changing our consciousness changes our reality and one can create a healthy being by our own consciousness--the interaction of the mind.
Interesting and fun way to grow young forever. Gives an insight of consciousness and being able to love. And want love means in real sense.
I love this book , so many great information
Además de tratar aspectos de la salud y vitalidad desde el punto de vista físico, biológico y también metafísico (bueno, al fin y al cabo es Chopra), de lo mas interesante es una serie de técnicas para mantener la vitalidad, salud y fuerza de vida. Los cuestionarios y ejercicios que presentan son muy sencillos de realizar. Lo difícil es la voluntad para hacerlos y cambiar de malos hábitos. Me parece muy acertado desde el punto de vista psicológico y biofísico. Ha que tener una vida equilibrada, buenos alimentos, socialización, un trabajo apasionante, no stress. Me encantó.
Written in '93 and still relevant today, Dr Chopra opens the mind to view our bodies and our relationship to the universe in a wholly different way than most of us have been taught for our entire lives. Being a doctor and scientist, he backs his revelations with quantum physics and scientific theory. He includes simple exercises to help each of us reach our best health and full potential in this lifetime. I consider this a primer for a long, happy and healthy life.
محاولات عبثية لاكتشاف سر الخلود، الكتاب مليء بالأبحاث والتجارب التي لم تكتشف سر الحياة وسر الموت ... وذلك لأن سره العمر بكل اختصار لا يعلم به إلا الله إلا أن الكتاب مفيد في التعريج على ما يضمن لك حياة صحية خالية من الأمراض، فلو فرضنا أنه مقدر لك أن تموت بعمر السبعين اتباع نصائح الكتاب لن تزيد في عمرك المكتوب يوما واحد ولكن بدلا من أن تموت منهكا بالأمراض .. ستموت وأنت بكامل صحتك
This book is great. I learned that you can basically live for ever because the cells in your body regenerate. After 7 years all of the cells in your body are brand new, even your bones and teeth. So take care of yourself and live a long and happy life-
Chopra expounds on quantum physics and how it is believed to influence aging. One thought-provoking idea: part of the reason we age as we do is because we are watching others age. Expectations of what age brings helps in fact to manifest those very things.
Good book. Reminds us to slow down, eat real food, and remember our thoughts can be powerful. Positive thoughts are keys to happiness and longevity.
The theory that you can live forever...if you want to...okay....
love his books... always!
A must for anyone who knows there is more to it but hasn't quite figured it all out yet.
That is good
Before it gets trained, awareness is just a field of energy and information, it is the mind's faculty for having thought before thought is actually present.
Compared to any single expression of matter and energy, whether one atom or one galaxy, the quantum field is incomparably more powerful, because it has the potential to generate infinite combinations of space-time events that have never occurred before."I do agree with his basic premise, which is that one's mental attitude has a huge effect on one's physical health and its decline with age.
Interesting book, especially after reading Being Mortal but Atul Gawande.
Both books raise evidence and theories about how aging and death are heavily influenced by our mental state, but his book speculates a bit more on why and to what extent.This book also delves into the physical, arguing that our bodies do not actually age in a linear fashion and that often times it's just a self-fulfilling prophecy.
I.e. You expect to not be able to do the same exercise, so you stop, and then you actually can't..
Thought provoking stuff.
Made me want to live more in the present.
This is a short book but I think is worth to read since it is a good reminder about the immense power of our mind. We can control our body, we can heal it and even decide when to age by just thinking about it. I recommend everyone to read this book with an open mind and the most important thing is to believe. If you don’t believe in something, no matter how many books you read, you are already setting yourself to fail since you are not believing. First you believe, then you see; not the opposite.
