https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1107457.Time_Will_Darken_It
Maxwell seems to understand us all, from the petty resentments we feel when our good deeds are misunderstood to those tenuous, fleeting moments when we feel truly connected to another.Not until near the end does anything much seem to happen (which was fine with me, I loved the beginning and middle too), but that's deceptive, and perhaps a typical misunderstanding of life in a small town, because within its people resides a wide range of emotions that lead to quiet, though not necessarily benign, actions, and sometimes non-actions.
It likes me; it is not entirely sure that love exists, but it is warm toward me, from a distance — the world is a harsh place but it projects more indifference than malice.William Maxwell was one of America's clearest, sparest, most graceful writers, and "Time Will Darken It" is his masterpiece.
King and his family (wife, Martha; young daughter) take in these people they don't really know, the Potters, including the idealistic Nora, who falls in love with Austin.
I have this in a volume with two other of Maxwell's works, The Chateau and So Long, See You Tomorrow.
I fish it out of its hiding place tonight, and find a bookmark at the start of the former of those, that is, after Time Will Darken It. So that says I've read it, and I vaguely remember doing so, but can't remember when, probably sometime in the late '90s of the last millennium.So many unread books I have - and it seems that some I have read are masquerading as unread in the corners of my mind..
Maxwell is the gentlest of writers. No filler here--spare but yet so descriptive. Each sentence being so precise and controlled that you don't even realize where he's quietly taking you until you've suddenly arrived.
I come away from every William Maxwell book more stunned that hasn't become part of the American cannon. His writing is flawless. This is a book all about unrequited love, and, as is always the case, he deals with the subject honestly and sensitively. I can't say a single bad thing about this book it's wonderful. I'll never stopped being amazed by his ability to define and contextualize life's experiences and the people we share them with.
Amazing writing. Compassion. Heart. We need more of this in contemporary fiction. More compassion. What an amazing writer. His insight, detail and careful prose grabbed me. His empathy and grace would not let me go.I could not put this down.
Maxwell's Time Will Darken It is among the most rewarding and satisfying reading experiences I have ever had. His characters are wonderfully made. With sparse style and grace he captures the quiet spaces of day-to-day living, the in-between areas in which lives unfold. The novel is also among the best depictions of the interiors of marriage I have encountered, with the intricacies of the interatctions between Nora and Austin, awaiting their second child and besieged by the visitation of distant relatives, rendered simply and movingly. A fine, fine novel.
Maxwell can do no wrong in my eyes. I was absolutely swept away by this gorgeously written novel, and found it incredibly rich, both psychologically and emotionally. Remarkably taut and unexpected.
Maxwell's ability to limn incisive character portraits may be second to none. I felt I got to know these 1912 characters and their small town very well, and they often felt quite contemporary despite having been created in 1948. In the end, I guess I was expecting more of a payoff story-wise. Maxwell may be a little too subtle for me, but he's a pleasure to read nonetheless.

Although perhaps best known for the award winning So Long, See You Tomorrow, Maxwell's masterpiece may be this novel about the effect a visiting set of relatives has on a family, their friends and neighbors.
Maxwell is a master at creating characters, both male and female.
He also has a deft hand in placing these characters in a certain time and place.
I felt I could walk through the door of the King house on Elm Street in 1912 to enjoy the buffet supper and be a first hand observer of how the Southern relatives begin to charm the natives of Draperville, a small city in the midwwest.

A fantastic book! Maxwell's power lies in his ability to transition between the specific and the general, moving from the domestic minutia of a family in early 20th century Draperville, Illinois to thrilling abstractions that link these intimacies to general truths on a much larger scale. Totally impressed by this book and excited to read more of what Maxwell has to offer.
I just had one of those moments when you pick up a book by chance, written by an author you've never heard of, and the results are quietly astonishing.
Maxwell's powers of description are transporting, and the characters he creates indelible.
This is a quiet book, set in turn-of-the-last century Illinois, about a small-town lawyer living in his father's shadow, who invites his shirt-tail southern relatives to stay with him and his newly-pregnant wife, one summer before the war to end all wars.
Complications ensue, in what is to me a melding of Cormac McCarthy's flowing power of describing both interior and exterior states with Stella Gibbons' incisive and darkly comic view of human nature.
There's something about this author - he just sets a mood, time, and place that I am immediately drawn into.
The author would set up a scene and then leave it to the reader's imagination, or he would commence a new scene and refer to something that happened, but which he doesn't fully explain.
I can go along with a certain amount of that, but there were one or two times I really wanted to be there when this dramatic stuff happened.
I wanted him to write the moment.I have one more book of his on my list to read.
A wonderful read that I could not put down. His characters are never truly one thing or another. Like many of us in the world they have shades of good, bad, petulance, tolerance, and pasts that shape them. And like real life, we never truly know where it is going. Why did it take a bookseller to tell me about this novel? Why isn't Maxwell ranked up there with other great American writers of the 20th century?
I think the only people who will appreciate this book are writers, or character study enthusiasts. I am neither and was completely bored the entire book. Maybe this is a representation of the inner workings of traditional family life? Who knows....all I know is that I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone I know. Not to say the author isn't talented...simply I don't appreciate this kind of story telling.
William Maxwell needs a better publicist. He can really paint a place and its people with words. Movingly to boot.
Randolph, the son of the Mississippi relatives, visiting Austin, his wife, Martha, and four-year-old daughter, Ab. He charms them all, including the little girl.
He charms people, including little children, but dogs love him too.
She talks with Randolph, who feels comfortable with her, and she asks him about the incident with the dogs.
This was true for Maxwell’s characters, particularly Nora and Austin.“People often ask themselves the right questions.
It brings me back to The Fallen Leaf and the main character who was always the nice friend, devoted to the popular friend, asking for nothing.
It turns out, though, Austin needs people to see him as nice.
This is a beautifully (and masterfully) rendered tale of a year or so in the life of a married couple, Austin and Martha King, who live in a mid-sized north midwest town in the early part of the twentieth century.
On the surface their life seems to be ordinary and happy.
They have a small daughter, and Austin makes a good living as junior partner in a law firm.
Austin finds himself attracted to Nora, a distant cousin, who falls in love with him.
He finds himself questioning his marriage, which has never been one of wild passions or deep proclamations of love.
I also very much enjoyed reading a story set in Illinois in 1912 and felt transported to another time.
However, my main grumble personally is that nothing very major happened throughout (with the exception of the end, but even this was unsatisfactory personally).
Minor characters (like Rachel) were introduced but never fully explored and this left left me wondering why they had been given the stage in the first place (if someone can please illuminate me, I would be so grateful).
Also, a lot of the action happens in hindsight with the author alluding to but never fully explaining.
I still enjoyed however due to the beautiful thought provoking prose.
Social customs are observed, racial lines are respected, and the differences between men and women are poignant and quietly, patiently tragic.
They didn't always fall in love with the right people.
They didn't always love the people they married.
William Maxwell writes for a modern 1948 audience -- but he is SUCH a gifted writer and keen observer that the work might have been written yesterday.This is a lovely book for a hot August day in Illinois, on a screened porch with an iced tea at hand.
Perhaps a Boston fern or two to muffle the keening of the locusts.
Set in the early part of the twentieth century, this is the story of a man who unwittingly unleashes devastating results on his personal and professional life. When the Potters, who are very, very distantly related to Austin King, invite themselves to travel from Mississippi to Illinois to visit the King family for an extended stay, he reluctantly agrees. William Maxwell is able to portray the characters and the subtle plot development with the clarity that defines his skill as a writer. The ending is haunting.
An overlooked classic, period. To borrow from Eudora Welty's review of the book: "Maxwell's sensitive prose is the good and careful tool of an artist who is always doing exactly what he means to do. The careful, meditative examination of unfolding relationships among people of several sorts and ages - all interesting - has Mr. Maxwell's expected integrity, and the story's quiet and accumulating power a dark and disturbing beauty that has some of its roots, at least, in fine restraint."If you enjoyed Revolutionary Road by Richard Yates then you're sure to enjoy Time Will Darken It.
Story about a man and his little family in the early 1900's - relatives from the South come to pay a visit and everything changes. I had ambivalent feelings towards this book. It was a well-written case study of human flaws. Kind of a cross between Tennessee Williams and Jane Austen. A bit slow-moving at times. Just so many parts made me squirm with impatience and a restlessness born of stress. I don't know - probably just me....
A very moving book that will stay with me for a long time.Set in a time when Women and Men had their own roles and knew how to behave.Class and cultural divide.How a marriage suffered by the Southern relatives who stay one summer never to be the same again.''Women are never ready to let go of love at the point where men are satisfied and able to turn to something else.It is the fault of timing.''A new author to me and I'll certainly be reading more.
Great book, great book.
Having thoroughly enjoyed two other novels by William Maxwell (They Came Like Swallows and So Long, See You Tomorrow), I’ve been looking forward to reading both Time Will Darken It and The Folded Leaf.
In Time Will Darken It, the simple life in small town Draperville, Illinois in the year 1912 is depicted in great detail, from presenting the differences between the haves and the have-nots, between blacks and whites, and between men and women.
The town of Draperville and its residents come alive on the page.
Towards the end of the novel, each of the primary characters comes to some eye-opening revelation about themselves.
i discovered William Maxwell in the epigraph of a John Irving novel (that i never ended up reading).
the quote resonated so much that i dropped the Irving novel and immediately found the Maxwell novel which bore the quote ( So Long, See You Tomorrow).
Time Will Darken It is the second Maxwell novel i have read and i can already detect a theme.
if you do read it, which you absolutely should, please take note of Maxwell's epigraph.
i recently read an old New Yorker article (written by John Updike) about how Maxwell, as editor-in-chief of that magazine for nearly 40 years was famous for developing young authors, like Updike and Cheever.
4.5 stars. I very much enjoyed this book, and it ended up some place other than I thought it would. Maxwell is a great writer. There's not much action until the end, but the sympathy with which all the characters are portrayed and the sense of place makes it an engaging read nonetheless. A little knock in the rating because there is a bit too much exposition in the end.
