https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2145340.The_Triangle_at_Rhodes
Dead Man's Mirror and Triangle at Rhodes, Agatha ChristieTriangle at Rhodes: Wishing for a quiet holiday free from crime, Poirot goes to Rhodes during the low season in October where there are but a few guests. Aside from the young Pamela Lyall and Sarah Blake there is Valentine Chantry, a consciously beautiful woman who seems to swoon under the attentions of Douglas Gold. This is done at the expense of his own wife, Marjorie, a mildly attractive woman, and Valentine's husband Tony Chantry. This
Aside from the young Pamela Lyall and Sarah Blake there is Valentine Chantry, a consciously beautiful woman who seems to swoon under the attentions of Douglas Gold.
When Poirot first arrives at the Chevenix-Gore's house, he meets Chevenix's wife Vanda, an eccentric who believes she is a reincarnation of an Egyptian woman, his adopted daughter Ruth and her cousin Hugo, and Miss Lingard, a secretary helping Chevenix research a family history.
It is revealed that Hugo is engaged to Susan (another guest at the house) and Ruth has already married Lake (Chevenix-Gore's agent) in secret.
Poirot says that Ruth killed Chevenix, but Ms Lingard confesses in the murder.
Meh. Quick. Uninspired. AC's been here, done that. I feel almost certain I've read this plot before.
This story was first published in The Strand in 1936 and, in book form, included in, “Murder in the Mews,” in 1937.
However, this short story is certainly worth reading in its own right.Poirot is on holiday in Rhodes, hoping for a relaxing time away from crime.
There are only a few residents, including two new couples.
The second couple is Douglas Gold and his mousy wife, Marjorie.
When Douglas Gold becomes infatuated with Valentine Chantry, jealousy leads – as Poirot predicted – to murder… This story has a nice setting, good characters and a good twist at the end.
This short story really got to me.I was passionately hating on some of the character thinking that this was the stereotypical character/plot type.
For once I thought that Agatha Christie was going to serve up some clichesBut dang that got me good.
I was questioning whether I would enjoy such a short story (especially when half of it was actually a description and not murder --> Im accustomed to a death occurring at the beginning and the rest of the novel being centred around analysis and solving the crime) so it was a surprise when I got to the end.Final Opinion: Definitely should read!
I dunno, it's just always been a pattern with the Agatha Christie Poirot novels and TV Series yet I don't mind, as long a my 'grey mass' is working inside of my head (I think Poirot is really starting to get to me, in a good way)Hum, the way this story was set I was carefully running back and forth between the characetrs trying to understand who was honest and who wasn't, and I was wrong on my whole theory.The thing that scares me is the rapid speed I'm consuming this whole series at - I only have a few episodes of season 11 left and have to then desperately wait for the next season.
يجب أن أذكر شيء هناأنالا تستهويني روايات أغاثا، مطلقا..لكن في عدة مجموعات قراءة، كانوا يتحدثون عن روعة رواياتيها، أردت التأكد بنفسي ، و أعتقد، أني على حق..بقى لها رواية، أو اثنتين، ولن أعود لها ، بعد ذلكـ أبدا..
We believe what we are lead to believe. So true. Christie really does understand the human race, doesn't she? Their twisted ideas, their ignorance and naivety. What a very clever, twisted crime. If not for Poirot, they would have gotten away. No one is too clever for our little Belgian.
The triangle at RhodesThe incredible theftMurder in the mewsDead man's mirror
Poirot goes to an island off of the Italian coast, hoping to stay away from murder. He sees a love triangle play out before him and warns a party to leave the island. They do not and then a member of the triangle is murdered. Poirot explains everything to another vacationer who says he could have done something.Who done it? (view spoiler)[ Commander Chantry. He poisoned his wife and framed Douglas Gold so that he could get with Marjorie Gold. Poirot had warned Marjorie to leave before she was caught and punished for murder. Marjorie did not.  (hide spoiler)]
This is not like the Bermuda triangle; this is a love triangle. The author shows how deceiving appearances can be at times. And also how easily people can be tricked into believing something that is inaccurate to say the least.
حدود بیست سال پیش بود، از یک دکه روزنامه فروشی در مشهد خریدمش
A fun shortThis is an extremely short story, but I it was a quick and fun read. The shorts are so tightly drawn neatly plotted that at 99 cents you can’t go wrong.
Puts you on your toes... Another great mystery but needed more scenes like the movie had. Nonetheless I enjoyed it very much. Good quick read as well.
Very short, but very interesting. The characterization wasn't deep, but I still haven't been able to figure it out before they revealed the truth. I enjoyed it very much.
I remember reading this story before in Arabic, so I basically had an idea about the crime. However, the murderer was still a mystery to me. I have, therefore, enjoyed this story so much.
This is almost identical to Evil Under the Sun. Still good, but the extended version is better.
این کتاب از کتابهای دوره نوجوانیم بود. به رسم اون دوران فکر کنم این کتاب رو هم چند دور خوندم :-D
3.5 stars
Fun short story of brilliant Poirot.
Triangle at Rhodes (Urlaub in Rhodos) [Mai]23 SeitenPoirot's hopes for a holiday from crime prove over-optimistic.Poirot möchte Urlaub auf Rhodos machen und rutscht direkt wieder in einen Mord. Auf 23 Seiten kann ja nicht all zu viel passieren. Der Todesfall ist das Ende des einen Kapitels, die Lösung beginnt sofort im 1. Satz des nächsten Kapitels... Okay eine Kurzgeschichte aber absolut nicht Christie-Like...Bekommt von mir leider nur 2/5 Lesezeichen.
About the only one of hers I've thought was really bad. I never did understand how he knew beforehand. Usually she tells you how. This time it didn't make sense what she DID say.
Enough of a distraction when waiting at the DMV
Quick and clever read.
Fun, quick, sleight-of-hand mystery. Exotic locale, unfortunately, it was not sufficiently incorporated into the story. Still Hercule is Hercule and the Dame is the Dame, 4 stars.
At first it seems like a rehash of another story, but the twist at the end will trip you up.
Poirot shows that he understands affairs of the heart... he is not swayed by misdirection or red herrings; as an astute observer, he sees the triangle at Rhodes....
I've read it a 2nd time (July 20, 2017.) I was surprised at the twist at the end.It's a short story under the title "Dead Man's Mirror."
Good little read as usual.
For a short story, it was pretty good. I realized after I've started I had watched the movie.
