https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/981463.The_Relatives_Came
I enjoyed this sweet story about a group of demonstrative relatives visiting family in the summer.
Cynthia Rylant is one of my favorites and I appreciated all the details in the illustrations that added so much to the story.
I loved, for example, the family all sleeping on the floor together, and how it was kind of hard to sleep with all that extra breathing around ;-) The illustrations are nice, but sometimes I wished I could tell more easily which folks were "the relatives" vs.
I can't help but think of Diane Goode and Cynthia Rylant teaming up on "When I Was Young in the Mountains" and wishing Goode had illustrated this, too--but that's just because I'm a huge Goode fan ;-)
Summary: From School Library JournalThe title of Rylant's exuberant tale is an understatement, for when "those relatives" came, they came en masse and they came for an extended stay.
The relatives are depicted as a support system to help a fatherless family with all the things that need to be done in and around their house.
In down-to-earth language that harbors strong emotion, Rylant recounts the festive celebration of the relatives' stay and the ensuing sadness when they depart.
The relatives in question are a large rural brood, depicted, in Gammell's joyous color pencil drawings, as running the gamut from porcine to scrawny, old to young and rowdy to silent.
I love the warm and happy reunion of family...it reminds me a great deal of our annual visits from AZ (where we lived) to Utah (where my maternal grandparents lived).
Or even of family gatherings at my paternal grandparents' home.
I love the description of them sleeping, with arms draped across each other and that "It was different, going to sleep with all that new breathing in the house." Rylant has a way with words, expressing a great deal in just a few well placed words.
The author starts out the book describing one family (from Virgina) packing up their things and piling into a car together to drive all day and night to see the other part of their family.
The auther describes the different things the families help each other with and how they help enhance each others lives.
This author made it seem like it was a delight and that both the host family and the visiting family were lucky to have each other.
When I read this book to my students this week they not only thought it was hilarious but they were also able to relate in many different ways.
I read The Relatives Came for the realistic/contemporary book.
The Relatives Came is about a family who has family members that travel to visit and stay for the whole summer.
The story has a nice rhythm when reading it.
I love the pictures and the way they make the families seem up beat and chaotic.
I feel like this book is a very realistic representation of what it would be like to have so much family come to visit for an entire summer, it would be very chaotic and crowded.
Then finally the relatives leave after they have eaten all the melons and strawberries and promise to return next summer.
The first time I heard this book, I was in a class about using literature in the classroom, and our professor read it aloud to us. The lively illustrations enhance the story about relatives coming to visit, and it brings to mind my own childhood memories of visiting distant family. I like to read this book with my children at the open and close of summer vacation especially. It captures the anticipation of visiting loved ones and the satisfaction found in returning home.
Read this in Kindergarten today and loved the illustrations -- no wonder it's a Caldecott book. The story itself was not that great, though.
3.5 out of 5The colorful and comical artwork not only illustrates the story but also expands it:The Relatives Came captures the joys of a big family reunion perfectly: all the hugging, talking, eating and slightly uncomfortable sleeping arrangements, as well as the emptiness of the house when the relatives finally leave. Ahh, I wish my relatives came...
This book is great if you need to read some thing about what you are thankful for
Driving from Virginia in an old station wagon with an ice chest full of pop and bologna sandwiches, a carload of relatives drive all day and night to arrive at their destination, where they are heartily welcomed by…their relatives.
After lots of hugs and even a few tears, the relatives go inside the house, welcomed with a big family style feast.
This has been a favorite in my family since my Kiddo was little and there was a lots of relative visiting back and forth, and all so reminiscent of this book.
But as the impending doom of my relatives' visit approaches, I thought it was time to check it out from the library, and so placed it on hold.
It is still nice to know that such families are out there enjoying the company of one another.In "The Relatives Came" the cousins from Virginia pack themselves into their rainbow colored station wagon at 4am and drive straight through to the next evening when they arrive at their relatives' home on the other side of the mountain.
It is definitely a must read for the next time your relatives come a calling.
The Relatives Came is a story about a family who packs up their station wagon from Virginia to visit relatives.
After a long visit, the relatives packed up their car and drove back to Virginia and once they returned they all dreamt about the next summer.
I would definitely use this book in my classroom.
The book has a great story line that keeps young readers intrigued to find out what happens on the family's trip to visit relatives.
A teaching idea for this book would be to use it for a connections lesson.
When the relatives left the house was quiet and empty, everyone had gotten used to the crowd of people, but vacations have to end.
Have children find out where some of their relatives live and then take a map and have the children see if they can locate where on the map they live.
Depending on age they might need help, afterwords you can discuss items, such as, what state the relatives lives in, how far/close they live to you, even how long it would take to drive, fly, or even walk.
This is one of my all time favorite books.
It should be found in every classroom library.
It tells the story of a very memorable visit from some relatives.
Stephen Gammell's Caldecott Honor winning pictures are vibrant and whimsical and give a feeling of fun to the story.
The pictures by themselves could tell the story, but Cynthia Rylant's descriptive language makes you feel like you are there.
You can really imagine all the hugging, eating and extra breathing in the house.
They are always excited to tell you when someone is coming for a visit from out of town.
I love this celebration of family. I use to show the filmstrip, when we did those during story time. However, my group at story time was just as entranced with the book. (Though the illustrations of the moon were a huge hit with one boy.)7/11/12Used in story time again this year. 6/26/13Used in story time, but the crowd was a bit young. I guess I should have gone with One Summer Day 6/9/15Used with a PreK 4 class and they seemed entranced, one asked if we could read it again.
I have been reading-and rereading-The Relatives Came repeatedly over the past week. Cynthia Rylant's prose is like simple poetry both lyrical and humorous. It has been a pleasant release from the stress of the holidays. I've read a number of other similar books as well by other authors this week but this was the one that "worked" for me.
Having family that visits can be either good or bad but at the end of the day they are still family.
A lyrical, rollicking celebration of big family get togethers.
I like that they're going to visit someone. I like the old station wagon and the food that they have and the way they sleep.
I loved the message about family reunions and cousins playing with each other. We love getting our extended family together for these very reasons.
First sentence: It was in the summer of the year when the relatives came.
They left when their grapes were nearly purple enough to pick, but not quite.Premise/plot: The Relatives Came is a celebration of family, and, in part a celebration of summer.
In this picture book, relatives come to visit, come to stay for a few weeks of FUN and LAUGHTER.My thoughts: I enjoyed this one very much.
Then it was hugging time.
Talk about hugging!
They hugged us for hours.
The Relatives Came earned a Caldecott Honor.
The illustrations are well worth a closer look.
One example of an imagined extension results from examining the multicolored station wagon that has a red roof, yellow body, and green fenders.
The curved roads allow the artist to draw the station wagon in two or more places within the same scene.
The text mentions that on the way the relatives saw “strange houses and different mountains.” We are told from the beginning of the story that they left their home in Virginia, and after looking back the house they left behind had a couple of steps to a front porch, and the road only seemed slightly hilly.
I loved this book in school and I still love it now
Caldecott Honor 1986
I am actually not positive whether or not most kids would like this, but I found it really poignant.
A delightful feel good story about family. Reading this is like being wrapped up in one of the many hugs mentioned in this book!
The Relatives Came is another great children's book of Cynthia Rylant's many works.
Almost anyone who reads this book can relate to it in any way.
When I read this book, i wouldn't say i directly connected with it.
However, i've seen different movies and have known people who have had relatives come visit from far away.
All their stories are similar in that they all just enjoy having family time together.
Whether it's sleeping, eating dinner, or just sitting outside, they all seem to enjoy their time they have because they are with family and that is all that matters.
Picture Book
Summary: This book is about a family who has a family reunion and relatives from Virginia come to visit.
However, they knew that gloom wouldn't last--- they would see each other next summer!Evaluation: This book has good ideas that follow a sequence such as the family traveling from far away to visit them.
This story heavily focuses on positive family time.
Teaching evaluation: I would use this book as a read aloud.
While reading the book I would teach the students about sequence.
The students could talk about themselves, their family and what they did over the summer or school break.
This book would be an exemplary read aloud for primary elementary grades at the beginning of the year to introduce a writer’s workshop where students will be writing narratives about their own experiences taking a road trip or visiting family over the summer.
Here, the teacher could also introduce letter writing formatting and have student write a letter to their relatives as well!
This novel would also be a good mentor text to demonstrate the writing trait of ideas, for students during writing workshop mini lessons.
