https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29737.My_Life_as_a_Man
This is the first published, in 1974, though it sort of doesn’t quite qualify: In this book, Roth writes three different stories, two of them short stories in a section entitled “Useful Fictions;” one ,“Salad Days,” a comic story of a sexual romp featuring Zuck with several women, and the second, “Courting Disaster,“ also featuring Zuckerman with women, but far more serious.
Zuckerman/Tarnapol is depicted as a writer who just wants to write, damn it (in the book he mostly writes checks, alimony checks) and to be with a woman who is as interestingly complex as the novels he loves.
I was nearing the end and set to give this extremely autobiographical novel, the twelfth by Roth that I have read, two stars - not exactly respectable, but short of "running out to the dumpster now to burn this." Then Roth caused his fictional wife to crap her pants - in the middle of a scene in which she is already getting the crap beat out of her by her husband.
Or maybe that Roth only writes and rewrites one book?It's not even that a pants-crapping character is the worst thing that could happen in a novel.
Farle nel modo sbagliato, figliolo, non ha alcun senso!Peter Tarnopol è un giovane scrittore emergente figlio amatissimo di orgogliosi genitori ebrei.
La storia ruota intorno al suo matrimonio non voluto con Maureen, reduce da due matrimoni falliti, una psicopatica che occuperà, provocando devastazioni e disastri, la vita di Tarnopol, per renderla la “vita di uomo di Maureen”, non più figlio amato, scrittore emergente, fratello affettuoso, professore preparato di letteratura inglese, ma soltanto … marito di Maureen travolto da lei e con lei nella nevrosi e infine nella follia.
Отне ми доста време да го завърша, но четенето му не е лесно - като се започне от двата начални разказа, премине се през прекалено откровените разкрития на главния герой, безкрайните препратки към всички други писатели и техни произведения, за да се стигне до финала, до този финал!Рот не случайно е определян за съвременен класик, колкото и претенциозно и клиширано да звучи това.
Факт е, че борави еднакво добре с иронията и автоиронията и тези му любими изразни средства са най-мощното оръжие, което насочва към читателите, за да ги изправи сами пред себе си."Животът ми като мъж" всъщност не е роман за мъжеството.

WTF?!?Една от безспорно най-откачените книги, които съм чела. И в същото време притежава изключителна, несравнима аналитична дълбочина. Ярък пример за съвременна белетристика от най-разюздан вид.Изобщо не бях се докоснала до същността на "лудостта" във "Възмущение" на Филип Рот. Но тази книга ме изуми по всички показатели. Велика!
Ricorsivo Il romanzo si compone:1) di due racconti il cui protagonista è Nathan Zuckerman, alter ego di Roth;2) del romanzo vero e proprio in cui il protagonista è Peter Tarnapol o meglio il rapporto tra Peter e la moglie Maureen .I racconti di cui al punto 1) sono, nella finzione letteraria, la modalità che usa Peter per meglio comprendere ciò che sta dietro il conflittualissimo rapporto con la moglie Maureen.Quindi Roth, scrittore, scrive di uno scrittore (Peter) che, come Roth stesso, ha un r
Ricorsivo Il romanzo si compone:1) di due racconti il cui protagonista è Nathan Zuckerman, alter ego di Roth;2) del romanzo vero e proprio in cui il protagonista è Peter Tarnapol o meglio il rapporto tra Peter e la moglie Maureen .I racconti di cui al punto 1) sono, nella finzione letteraria, la modalità che usa Peter per meglio comprendere ciò che­­­­ sta dietro il conflittualissimo rapporto con la moglie Maureen.Quindi Roth, scrittore, scrive di uno scrittore (Peter) che, come Roth stesso, ha un rapporto problematico con la moglie.
Ciò che tale formula non riesce a spiegare, fra milioni di altre cose, è perchè così tanti fra i "padroni" appaiono essere in uno stato di servitù, spesso a beneficio delle loro "schiave"]Quindi la ricorsività dell'intreccio si viene a ritrovare nella ricorsività "senza soluzione di felicità" del rapporto tra Peter e Maureen.
On the other hand, there's his tendency to create problems for himself.
Although he all but admits this to himself, he still seems bewildered by the whole thing.In part, as he realizes, his difficulties stem from his "literary" frame of mind, from his tendency to approach a problem as if he were a character in a novel confronting a grave moral quandary of profound significance.
The fact that the book begins with two of Tarnopol's own semi-autobiographical short stories both provides another metafictional layer and, perhaps, in the discrepancy between the stories and Tarnopol's autobiography, gives us some clues as to how much Tarnopol's life deviates from Roth's.
Roth started with 2 novels which, as it turned out, were published stories of the protagonist, Peter, and then the end, where he is writing alone in a retreat in Vermont, recovering from the attempted suicide of his estranged girlfriend.
It appears that Peter has had a bad streak of luck with women, a hysterically failed marriage to Maureen who dies in a mysterious accident after, herself, attempting suicide.
Indeed, we were led to believe by the defenders of womankind of our era that we were exploiting and degrading the women we didn’t marry, rather than the ones we did.
Kniha tak prelezená ufrflaným negativizmom a horekujúcou sebaľútosťou, že ju radšej ukladám do karantény, nieže mi to chytí nejaký Bukowski.
I often find myself having to take a break, a long walk or find something to completely distract me for a while.The author uses various characters that speak in the first person; it appears that they are thinly disguised versions of himself.
Sometimes, he tells similar stories from the POV of different characters, which include variations on a theme.Until I read the description of the main character's marriage to (Lydia/Maureen in this book/Lucy in When She Was Good), I thought nobody could ever fathom the kind of person I had been married to.
Roth at his best: ironic, sharp, cynical. The book deals with the typical Roth's themes: the difficult relations with women, hebraism and the writer's ego. The narrative scheme is brilliant: the first two chapters are two short stories written by the author who is the protagonist of the following chapters.The writing style, as usual, is amazingly polished.
La vita vera e le sue variantiRomanzo per rothiani incalliti, “La mia vita di uomo” è conseguentemente sconsigliabile per un primo approccio all’autore.
Si tratta infatti di un’opera in cui la linearità del racconto è ripetutamente deviata, contraddetta, frammentata da digressioni, salti temporali e riflessioni, tanto che a volte sembra che Roth si stia quasi esercitando a sviluppare la narrazione in diversi modi, sperimentando varianti, personaggi e situazioni, facendo addirittura precedere il romanzo (“la mia vera storia”) da due “racconti” attribuiti a Peter Tarnopol, lo scrittore protagonista, che vanno a rimestare, pur con un diverso approccio, nelle medesime vicende pseudo biografiche.
Una historia contada de una forma totalmente inverosímil, y a la vez de una autenticidad tan descarnada que por fuerza tiene que contener elementos autobiográficos reales.El narrador-protagonista (sea Nathan Zuckerman o Peter Tarnopol) nos cuenta con todo detalle cómo vivia una existencia completamente literaria que le hacía feliz, y cómo ese afán por la literatura le llevó a elegir una esposa como un personaje de ficción.
Una cattiva annata - Eppure Roth mi piace tanto Riproporre scritti precedenti non è sempre una buona idea: questa operazione editoriale non è riuscita.Certo, il primo racconto “Anni Verdi” è molto bello, trabocca di quel che più affascina in Roth: la sua scintillante intelligenza che trasforma parole, frasi e racconti di vita in altro, in storia, personaggi e pensieri.Ma non è quel che fa ogni grande scrittore?Ora, dopo aver letto tanto “buon” Roth, diventa quasi insopportabile il lungo resoconto sadomasochista del matrimonio perverso tra Peter Tarnopol e Maureen. Insano e ripetitivo.Sapore di vino acido, cattiva annata.
Un po' indispettito dalla cronologia delle traduzioni (tali per cui mi trovo a leggere ora la prima apparizione di Zuckerman dopo che ne ho gia' letta l'ultima) non posso tuttavia che scivolare lietamente tra questi dialoghi e questa New York cosi' cinematografica - almeno, nella mia immaginazione. Non c'e' trama da salvare; non rimango piacevolmente stupito dagli intrecci dei tre racconti: dal meta-intreccio tra i tre racconti invece si'. Una bella capacita': ma d'altronde, lo si sapeva gia'. Altro tassello dell'opera omnia di Roth, da accostare agli altri, con sempre sommo piacere.
I don't know off hand how many Roth books I've read now, but I suspect it's easily in the two digits.
I've also read more essays, reviews and entire books of criticism of Roth than any sane person should.
While I have considered that it would be nice if he'd occasionally write about a more balanced woman, I don't think that every book I read has to incorporate every type of person ever, so I mostly scoff and roll my eyes at the more feminist criticisms of his work.Then, I read this book.Stop the presses, it's true : Philip Roth hates women.
The second part of the novel is a hysterical, uneasy, unpleasant read; it lacks the wry humour of Roth's best work, and My Life as a Man seems an acknowledged antithesis of Roth's later historically confronting novels (his best work, from my perspective), as it is wraps itself up to such an extent in the relationship of the main character, his wife, his analyst and his girlfriend that ignores the outside world, until the best part of the second half where Tarnopol runs down a list of the tragedies of the American 1960s and what his focus was on at that time.
philip roth is one of my favourite writers and i always thought him very consistent.
to be clear, this novel is as semantically superb as any other penned by roth but it's just tediously overanalytic.
what we get instead is three hundred pages of excruciatingly detailed self-evaluation, practiced by roth's thinly-veiled literary double.
on the whole, this is an intricate work of life-inspired fiction (or, to be accurate, life-inspired fiction within fiction).
it can very well serve to illustrate the relationship between the writer and his work and in that respect it proved to be of my much interest to me.
Все се чудя какво толкова има в тоя Филип Рот, че е така увлекателен, когато не би следвало да бъде - твърде е подробен в някаква скучна задълбоченост, имаш чувството, че си говори сам и хич не му дреме за читателя, сюжетите му не са нито шашкащи, нито особено иновативни, направо са си обикновени и има малко нещо снобско в твърде подобните му герои, които така си приличат в повечето книги (поне от това, което съм чела).
Обаче въпреки това продължава да се чете лесно и увлекателно.
Tough going in the beginning -- but work through it. It gets much easier, much more enjoyable. If you like Roth, that is. And goddammit you should!
I was really interested in reading Philip Roth after watching American Pastoral and Indignation last year and enjoying them both very much.
Obviously Roth is hailed as a novelist that is among the modern classics so I figured I should expand my literary horizons and give him a try.
I can appreciate that the writing was good but it also seemed quite ludicrous and I didn't enjoy the overpowering racism and misogyny that was a continual theme throughout the book.
Not sure if Roth is worthy of the title of 'modern classic'.
"My Life as Man" is reckless in inviting us to review the man rather than the writer, which is part of its appeal.
To get the story out Roth is willing to look not only ignoble and self‐centered, but also foolish, helpless, even moderately (to majorly) misogynistic.
However, if the personal‐confessional mode highlights Roth's limitations it also returns him to the day‐to‐day funhouse of psychoanalytic construed human folly that he can describe so ringingly, so comically, even as it goes on tormenting him.
For all its egotism “My Life as a Man” is a very vulnerable and affecting work.
Reads like an alternative ending sequel to When She Was Good. Much of the same ground covered but brings in a Freudian psychoanalyst to inject a note of Portnoy.
It feels so honest of him, knowing that he is probably a disturbed and narcissistic person in a real life, to read about highly intellectual men having believable problems that are all caused basically by their own intellect.The main character becomes angry when women start to actually want something other than sex.
He hates that he is expected to give up his egoism to be able to love and it's really sad reading about a stubborn writer refusing to do what he's supposed to do (as a man) while the reader knows it would be the best decision(in general) but understands doing things you're supposed to do make writers feel like a caged birds.
While I was reading this book, I kept telling people that the gist of it was "bitches be crazy." It's true that the only sane woman in Peter Tarnopol's life is his mother (oh, wait, but his therapist dismisses her as the castrating source of his narcissism).
At least Peter/Roth realizes that it takes a crazy bitch to know one.
(It didn't help that I listened to the audio version, and the actor gave all the women screechy, hysterical voices.) But watching them all torture each other makes for somewhat torturous reading.
So this was a useful book, I guess, just not a remotely enjoyable one.
FIRST LINE REVIEW: "First, foremost, the puppyish, protected upbringing above his father's show store in Camden." Always interesting to go back to the first line after finishing a book. In this case, the book ends where it began, with the narrator (author?) reflecting back on his childhood where he has come to believe that all his troubles began (or where his salvation lay). This was a twisted, messed up book with truly unlikeable characters throughout. While I loved the writing, I wanted to yell at the characters. Ultimately, unsatisfying...but strong enough to keep me turning to the next Roth book.
With some regret, I give this one two stars. In the end, my apathy/mild hate for the main character (as intended) was too overwhelming to enjoy this book. It was well-written but perhaps more complex than strictly necessary; the two short stories at start provide more than enough fodder for the remainder of the plot, but then the plot jumps around chronologically in a dizzying and ultimately uninteresting way. A disappointing Philip Roth.
wanna know a man who's a drama queen? har har har, no, i said "queen", annoyingly funny
Deft, and with shades of Human Stain and Mickey Sabbath, but ultimately not his best and, sadly, tied to its time.
