https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/845651.Darker_Than_You_Think
Aldiss (Sci-fi), Peter Straub (Horror), and Poul Anderson (Fantasy / Sci-fi), who went so far as to write his own short story sequel, Inside Passage, continuing the strong themes that are the backdrop to both, Wolves of Darkness and Darker Than You Think, published in The Williamson Effect edited by Roger Zelazny with an introduction by David Brin.For those not familiar with pulp or serial writing, be aware of a few repeat phrases or overused words, as verbiage was habitually more common then from one magazine issue to another, and decidedly, to help you refamiliarize yourself from where you left off.
masters of atomic probability: turning metal into mist and walking through walls; picking just the right place for an unfortunate accident, be it bloody car crash or a great fall from a high place.
Fantastic Plotexpert pacing: the plot moves like it has someplace to go and should have been there yesterday.
Williamson gets right in there.
this idiot mewls like a kitten to a beyond-eye-rolling degree.
well apparently nine-tenths of a novel's worth.
Tedious ProtagonistI really didn't enjoy how the novel rationalizes the burning of witches, the burning of Joan of Arc, and the Inquisition.
The expedition has informed the press that they have made a discovery that will "change everything" and effect all of mankind and they plan to make their discovery known immediately as they fear they may be in danger from what they describe as "the ancient enemy." The expedition was led by Will's old professor and the other members of the expedition are all close friends of Wills.
At the airport, Will meets April Bell, a reporter from another paper there to cover the same story.
Bottom-line, I thought this was an incredible read from start to finish and clearly is among the top two books that Jack Williamson ever wrote (The Humanoids: A Novel being the only other possible choice).
"Darker Than You Think by Jack Williamson, originally a novelette, was expanded into novel length and published by Fantasy Press in 1948.
The short version was published in Unknown in 1940."I'm pretty sure that I actually read the 1948 novel-length version.
However, while waiting for them to meet the press, he finds himself next to a young woman, April Bell, who introduces herself as a budding journalist and is eager for him to give her professional tips.
The press conference ends up being prevented due to a shocking tragedy - and Barbee's feelings toward April begin to include a suspicion that she might somehow be guilty of a terrible crime.
I reserve the right to give this one three and a half stars.Ooh boy!
This is a toughie.Early on at least, I enjoyed the 'pulpy' style of the writing in Darker Than You Think.
I also thoroughly enjoyed the pseudo scientific theories used to explain much of the plot.
Furthermore, I hated Will Barbee with a vengeance.
Our protagonist (Barbee) is presented as a spineless, gullible, dumb-ass moron, who is all to easily persuaded to turn against his friends and dear ones.Could have been five stars, but unfortunately fell waaayyy(!) short.
Darker Than You Think is well-written but dull, and its characters seem really fake for the most part, for lack of a better word.
A gripping story from start to finish that provides a different take on the idea of lycanthropy drawing together strands from quantum mechanics, freudian psycology and evolutionary theory.
One of my favorite werewolf stories.
Despite being identified as “one of the best werewolf novels”, I found this book to be a crashing disappointment. Why? The reasons are as under: -1. The protagonist is the worst one that I have EVER encountered in a book, in terms of believability. My arguments are:a. In a style bitterly reminiscent of Hamlet and his procrastinations but without any of the literary paraphernalia that had made those lines so special, he spends the whole length of the novel without doing anything in his persona.b.
again, you get the drift.I can go on & on, but for a book that I strongly recommend TO STAY AWAY FROM, I think I have written more than enough.
I was surprised when I checked this out from the library that it was written in 1948. It is a dark tale and must be one of the earliest examples of urban fantasy.It is a tale of lycanthropy rather than werewolves alone. It is pulp fiction that has quite stereotypical characters such as April Bell the femme fatale. It is great fun and a quick read with some interesting twists. While it is of its time period it has aged well.
This book about a race of people (creatures?) with astral traveling abilities has a fantastic plot, and a frenetic pace and pulpy feel to the writing which drives the storytelling along; I loved it.
Even when it becomes apparent people are dying horribly, still he refuses to accept the truth of his situation.Even once Mr. Slackjaw finally accepts the truth about who is the Queen Evil-Bitch, still he acts to protect her and her despicable actions.Honestly, I absolutely loved the plot, the pace, and the pulp feel of this novel, but it was let down badly by the ineptitude of the protagonist.
Originally written at the very end of the 1930s and published in 1948, this is a remarkable dream-like (or rather nightmarish) paranoid fantasy about were-people taking over the world - it is also very sexy in that subdued way of the mid-twentieth century.I can imagine this being filmed in 'noir', a greyscale of airports, small town life, redheads in apartments, cocktail bars and insane asylums, with the 'dream' or 'madness' or 'enhanced existence' sequences (it is not clear what they are and I will not spoil your own conclusions) in vivid technicolour.The 'dream' sequences (let's leave it at that to make it simple) are embedded in the sort of psychoanalytic and scientific narrative that you might expect in a book of this era but they are 'darker than you think'.
For me the novel has four big problems: the writing is bad, okay it's pulpy, it hasn't dated well, the main character who tells the story from a first person perspective is a fool that we NEVER sympathize with, and lycanthropy is my least favorite horror trope, so it already had a poor chance to do more than show with me.As far as being dated one might say "it is of its time." but so is The Colour Out of Space but we don't feel that about the story while reading it.
Werewolves and shape-shifters just don't work for me, never have.
Early on the writing was a bit clunky, and with an abundance of oft repeated phrases. Thankfully it smoothed out a little as the story progressed.This was an interesting tale about a secret race of shape-shifters - allegedly out for world domination, although there was little sign of that. I did enjoy the rather novel approach Williamson took with regards the creatures shape changing abilities, but felt the story was let down by the unlikely actions of a somewhat deplorable protagonist. Nevertheless, an entertaining slice of hokum.
Those transformation scenes are some of the book's strongest, as they allow Williamson to indulge in a little sense-based (scent/sound) atmospherics during the character's wild, passionate stalkings through the night (although the actual details of the transformations are clumsily deployed at first - I like the detail that the forms remain invisible to mankind unless the transformed wishes to be seen, but we can only assume that they are "talking" through telepathy, and the fact that they leave their bodies behind is not made clear until later).Similarly, the race-war aspect of the narrative is potentially interesting (Barbee's secret nature fighting against enculturated social training), with an initial flirting with a question of whether the Lycanthropes are inherently evil, but for the plot to continue, that question gets settled fairly easily, which makes Barbee's continued waffling frustrating, as I said (he basically seems driven to continue to question it simply because of his lust for April and his deep-seated enjoyment of his exciting new form's freedoms - only that latter part seems justifiable).
Jack Williamson's "Darker Than You Think" is a one-shot horror-novel excursion for this science fiction Grand Master, but has nonetheless been described as not only the author's finest work, but also one of the best treatments of the werewolf in modern literature.
It has been chosen for inclusion in David Pringle's overview volume "Modern Fantasy: The Hundred Best Novels" ("a relatively disciplined and thoughtful work," Pringle writes, in comparing it to the author's earlier space operas) as well as in Jones & Newman's "Horror: Another 100 Best Books" ("the most unique and original take written on...lycanthropy," illustrator Randy Broecker tells us).
Given the amount of sf/horror/dark fantasy in my reading list, I was predisposed to believe a supernatural explanation and more than willing to accept an alternate species, but I was never quite sure where the novel was going.Overall I thought Darker Than You Think was excellent; well worth reading, even 60+ years after its original book publication (70+ years after the publication of the magazine version in Unknown Fantasy Fiction, December 1940).For some reason, I’ve not read much (if any) Williamson before this.
This book is to the werewolf story what "I Am Legend" is to the vampire story. That is high praise and I enjoyed this book immensely.The intermingled themes of folklore, anthropology, Indiana-Jonesesque archeology, quantum physics, pulp-noir detective, witchcraft, psychological and supernatural murder are handled expertly. As has been said by another reviewer, it is more a story of shapeshifters than a classic werewolf tale.Settle down with this book and a hot drink, but first check the doors and windows are locked - not that that would protect you!
An interesting story where "were" creatures are not confined to wolves. Though they are definitely dark and in conflict with humans. We see a weak man torn between the beautiful new woman of his acquaintance and the life-long friendships of those on the side of good. At stake? Oh - only the fate of all humanity!It was a bit of seasonal reading for me since Halloween is in a week and enjoyable enough.
I need to remind myself that a lot of the cliches in this book weren't as cliched when it was written.There is a scene early in the book that is written in the standard heavy dark portentous manner that left me in stitches.
The professor has already sent word that he needs to be protected and guarded until he makes his huge announcement.
I was laughing so hard at the scene (which has been in movies, comic books, novels, short stories etc.
so often ).The book was well written and a good story.
Darker Than You Think is the story of WILL BARBEE, a heavy drinking newspaper reporter assigned to cover the story of an archaeological teams' mysterious dig in the Gobi Desert.
When Dr. Mondrick, the leader of the expedition, tries to explain what they found in the desert, which includes a secret enemy awaiting the coming of the "Child of the Night," he falls dead at reporters' feet, the apparent victim of a heart attack.As for April Bell, a fellow reporter Will should see as his opposition, he finds he is intensely attracted to her, even though he senses she might have had something to do with Dr. Mondrick's death.
DARKER THAN YOU THINK, by Jack Williamson, is a classic old-school shapeshifter novel originally published in the 1940s.
He thinks it may be the alcohol fueling these incredible dreams.
The writing of Barbee's internal turmoil is great.The novel sounds very much like something written in the 1940s – I could visualize it being a black and white film as I was reading.
This made it just that much more wonderful to read!Any horror fan would appreciate this early rendition of a vampire/shapeshifter story.
Williamson won many awards over his writing career, including a Grand Master Nebula and a Horror Writers Association Lifetime Achievement Award.This is a book that will stay in my library.
I'm no werewolf expert, so far be it from me to judge the wolves in this 1948 horror classic.
When they shift, they act exactly as they would in their human form, which makes for hilarious scenes such as this: "She trotted past the fallen chair, sprang lightly to the desk and grasped the dead man's pencil in her pliant paws".
Werewolf lady then proceeds to write a note while chatting companionably and ignoring her lack of opposable thumbs.
It's good pulpy fun, but not exactly horrifying.
One of the first fiction books i read. Found it in a cafe selling used books in Toronto called bookworm fell in love with the cover and later on with the story. Great dark atmosphere, well written and seductive.
Darker Than You Think (1940) a remarkable speculative novel about lycanthropy and other forms of Shapeshifting which early presented the thesis that Werewolves are genetic throwbacks to a species cognate with Homo sapiens (Supernatural Creatures).
A gripping,humane story that arent dated at all. Its about a very intresting and different take on lycanthropy. The best story about Lycanthropy i have read or seen.A true masterwork.
This could be the only trace of verifiable fact Williamson brings to his novel.) Along with the press are family members of the four returning explorers, including the elderly, stately Rowena Mondrick, blind since a panther ripped out her eyes in Nigeria some years before.Mark Barbee is there, an old friend of the explorers and now an alcoholic reporter for the Clarendon Star.
Tidd, until two years later when money ran out and he and his doctor agreed there was nowhere further to go at the time.In Darker Than You Think Topeka becomes Clarendon.
Written in the 1940s, this is considered one of the first “modern” supernatural novels involving iconic folklore such as the witch, werewolf, and vampire. Also written in the time of Sigmund Freud, who is referenced several times in the book, it was interesting to see folklore juxtaposed with early modern psychology. Pretty cool experience, overall, and I’m glad I got a copy of it!
From then on, the novel got increasingly frustrating.The main character is insufferable and unbelievable.
For a moment, I thought that this was one of those novels that lead the reader into thinking they knew for certain what was going on, only to crush those expectations and blow their mind with new information.
All great mythical stories are linked back to this theory.
Many descriptions were great.
The descriptions of the violence were perfectly gruesome.
After a certain point, every time I read “sleek white bitch” or “linkage of probability” I wanted to fling the book against the wall.
Why people consider this one of the best werewolf novels is beyond me.
Jack Williamson is an author who often hits all these genres, and Darker Than You Think is a novel which nails all three.Main character Will Barbee is a newspaper reporter and former student of anthropologist Dr. Mondrick.
As the professor and his protégés are returning from a two year expedition, Barbee meets the mysterious red head April Bell.
Most characters are fairly flat, with Barbee and Bell the main focus of change here.
I found this and the pseudo-science discussions of probability to be particularly creative in context of this tale.My prior exposure to Jack Williamson was through short stories.
