https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/152661.The_Big_Sea
For my best poems were all written when I felt the worst.   Recall the boom of the 1920s, the one we think about when we remember the splash of Fitzgerald's The Great Gatsby. Now think of how those years affected the Harlem Renaissance, an era which brought with it important contributions to American literature, an era we don't hear about too often. Alongside Hemingway, Fitzgerald, Stein, and others, were: Hughes, Thurman, Fauset, Locke, Hurston, Toomer, McKay, and others. Some were African Am
There I was, sitting in an American Lit II class in undergrad, fuming because I had a headache and my professor was droning, until finally he got to the point and told us to open the text to this Hughes poem; my pulse quickened:The Negro Speaks of RiversI've known rivers:I've known rivers ancient as the world and older than the flow of human blood in human veins.My soul has grown deep like the rivers.I bathed in the Euphrates when dawns were young.I built my hut near the Congo and it lulled me to sleep.I looked upon the Nile and raised the pyramids above it.
So from meeting Hughes as a mature and established writer, poet, and traveller in I Wonder as I Wander, I went backwards and met him as a teenager starting off on his career.
Hughes, from his writing, seems like such a personable man and it was fun to read about his adventures: how will he survive in Paris with no money?
Apart from accidentally reading books in order, I also have the gift of somehow knowing which books to read in tandem that will increase my knowledge.
The first of two autobiographies by Langston Hughes, this one was published in 1940 and covers the poet's childhood and life through the decade of the 20's.
I had heard of Langston Hughes before, but had never read his work.
I saw his name mentioned as an influence on the author of a book I read a few years ago and became curious enough to order his two autobiographies, thinking I wanted to get to know the man before I tried his poetry.
Angry about the way Negroes were treated at the time, angry about society in general.
Time alone will tell.
It was interesting to hear about Langston's life from his perspective. His travels, joys, and heartaches allow us to understand how his life influenced his works.
Quick and fabulously readable memoir-introduction to Langston Hughes' journey as a writer and his life as it unfolded through the 1920's and the Harlem Renaissance. What a brave, honest and talented human! Favorite quote: "I always do as I want, preferring to kill myself in my own way rather than die of boredom trying to live according to somebody else's 'good advice'."
Fascinating witness account of the 1910s and 1920s interspersed with Hughes' beautiful poems and occasionally sprinkled with of-its-time sexism and patronising essentialist accounts of "primitive Africa" to keep your eye muscles exercised.
It belongs in the neighborhood of A Moveable Feast, though with less spite or regretful nostalgia, and perhaps not quite as finely written but very close.The memoir covers a relatively short period of Hughes’s life, primarily as a high school and college student to the point he establishes himself as a poet and journalist in the mid-1930s.
The book is filled with wonderful descriptions of people, places, music, conflicts, life at sea, and writing.
It has a memorable beginning, Hughes departing New York as a cook on a freighter dumping a sack of books into the harbor, signifying the end of one form of education and the beginning of another, and concludes with chapters on the rise and fall of the Harlem Renaissance.
This, after feeling abandoned by a wayward father and a selfish mother, having graduated from college and on a merchant ship to feel "at home" for once in the old country, only to be once again, "left out in the cold" from "Empty House" in Simple's Uncle Sam. There is so much out there left to be seen, some of it can be learned from Hughes because there hasn't been anyone to come along like him in more than 40 years.May 5Finished earlier this weekend, some awesome insights into "black"lash when some major black critics of his day panned his second book of poems, New Clothes For the Jew, which he admitted was inappropriately mis-titled, but appropos to the downtrodden pawning their clothing to get money for food.
The pieces of his life included in this book reflect a bit on the hardships of his time, when racism was still strongly condoned legally as well as socially, but it's clear the push these struggles have had on him to press on and follow his dreams and the beauty he had found in coming to know himself for who he was.I feel so inspired by this book, but I also can't help but feel disconnected.
This book certainly doesn't create, but rather illuminates to me the feeling and realization that I will never in all my life be able to truly empathize with those who were and are victims of racism.I feel that this book is important.
His life seemed pretty interesting but it bored me to read the way he wrote about it.
I've always wondered what the story behind the rift between him and Zora Neale Hurston was, and still, I feel like he was evading the issue with vagueness and subtle misogyny.
Actually, he was pretty vague on just about everything in his life.
On the other hand, it was like having a friend who babbles nonstop and the only reason to put up with it is because on many occasions that friend will say something brilliant and amazing.
This is basically a chronological list of the places Hughes went. There is little perspective on the times and really very little self analysis. The part of this book that I expected to be the most interesting to me was the last third about the Harlem Renaissance. However, even that was primarily name dropping.
There were many times during the book where I really did not like him.
I have wanted to learn more about him after reading a short story he wrote during his time in Paris.
This book was written when it was still very much a man's world.
And then of course there were the times when he lived off the money of two white women and one black woman.
The one thing I liked was how it portrayed a time where you could travel with $7 in your pocket and survive and experience the world.
I guess you have to look at this book as just one man's path.
Of course I had to add my non-artistic drawings to it in color, including clouds and trees and stars...I wish I had that piece of paper still.When I heard about the Autobiography of Langston Hughes I was very excited to learn more about the man I so respected.I didn't really know what to expect...would it be about poetry, the Harlem Renaissance, New York?What I found is a true 'must-read' for anyone who has an affinity to Langston.He tells of his 'adventures' as a youth and how they led him to become one of the greatest poets the world has produced.It was funny.
I don't want this autobiography to end.
I wish I could write like Langston Hughes.
This autobiography tells of his earlier years and his far travels.
it is especially wonderful in how it talks about the cities he has lived in and the people he met.
It makes the black world of the 1920s come alive.
I feel like it was a travelogue of where to stay and what to do of that time.
I let down my nets and pulled.
I'm still pulling."p.310"For bread how much of the spirit must one give away?"
Langston Hughes wrote an autobiography of his life. This book is the first half of his life. I learned so much about him that I did not know such as his time in the military traveling to Africa. His time at Lincoln University (a black college in Pennsylvania) and his time at Columbia University. He never goes into this personal relationships but his views from public transportation to his views on the every day rituals.I love Langston Hughes!
I knew his mother was from the Lawrence area but not that he spent part of his childhood there. Cool.
This is for everyone who ever doubted their own greatness. It takes a bit of struggle and pain, but you can make it. It's a great big sea out there, waiting for you.
This book really flowed, so was a pleasure to read. I had forgotten how much I loved Hughes poetry. Reading about his life and also reading some of his poetry was a delight.
Very interesting and pleasant to read.
A brilliant autobiography which exposes both the horrors of growing up African-American in the early 20th century and the triumph of art over hate.
This was an amazing story of his life! I love him even more now.
This lovely stroll back in history reveals courage, compassion, and joy (it's no accident that Hughes called his first novel "Not Without Laughter").
I am not a big fan of Hughes's poetry, but his style works beautifully for short stories and this memoir.
Along the way are chapters about misery and chapters of just plain fun, such as Hughes's account of attending a historically black college.According to the introduction by Arnold Rampersand in the edition I read, Hughes's publisher got bored by the references to African-American stars and their events in 1920s Harlem.
Now that section is recognized as an invaluable account of an important moment in American history.
I read this book for a course I am currently taking on Langston Hughes and it was interesting to learn more about him as a person.
Throughout the course of this book I became immersed in the moving within Hughes mind as he travels around the world.
One thing that can truly be said about Hughes is that he loved the atmosphere of Harlem and the African American culture there.
H e really appreciated the Harlem Renaissance culture and totally fitted in there more than anywhere else he had been to in his life.
This is a book everyone, especially young African Americans should read.
I wanted to read more from "classic" authors, particularly classic black authors, this year, and so I picked up this book by Langston Hughes, since I had not read anything by him, aside from a few quotes or short poetry.
Although Hughes led an interesting and extraordinary life, I found this book lackluster and a bit boring in many times.
In one of the chapters, Hughes quotes a critic of his short-lived magazine, "Fire Magazine", saying that he often has nothing to say, but says nothing in many words.
I was particularly into his class/material analysis, with specific reference to his experiences in Harlem and DC.
He set the scene for the reader to his life in these, and other, areas in a deeply nuanced fashion, as he was openly critical of other black folks in these scenes (particularly those who amassed wealth, were highly educated, and often judgemental of the raw aspects of Lang's art which truly represented a more explicit view of black living in America, from his eyes and ears).
This is an excellent book for those interested in his life and attitudes that formed his work.
No claustrophobic sense of self here, only openness to what was really going on at any given moment and a curiosity unbound.
I felt like I was along for the ride the whole way.
It was fascinating to see through his eyes and it helped me adjust my own historical sense.
On top of all that, it was cool to have a protagonist who was more like me than not, racially but also in terms of point of view.
As much as I love to read other people's perspectives, I also crave (and rarely receive) the gift of a like-minded protagonist.
The first half of this book is interesting and filled with what were unknown parts of Hughes' life (to me, anyway) about his childhood and his time as a sailor.
The book actually seems to stall out a little when Hughes begins writing about his time in Harlem.
Much like Zora Neale Hurston's Dust Tracks on a Road, the book is worthwhile for fans but not of much general interest due to the excessive participants whose names are listed for posterity, but who have all but faded in our memories over the course of the last 80 years.
I read this book for a lit class about Langston Hughes.
Hughes' travels and the perspective it gives him, which he shares with us, are profound and and interesting.
His prose is stark, every words feels like it has meaning to maximize effect, with no extraneous distractions.
I felt like he was a man who didn't quite know where he fit in and this offered him unique insights, even perhaps the stuff he glosses over such as his break with Charlotte Mason and his fight with Zora Neale Hurston.
I recommend this work and Hughes' poetry also.
I look forward to reading more of his prose.
Langston Hughes certainly led an interesting enough life to write about, though he wrote his biography at the young age of 38. But his telling of these events are too sparing of his own analysis of their impacts. A conspicuous positive for history buffs is Hughes accounts of the "who's who" of Harlem artists--writers, singers, entertainers, and others. In some ways, these chapters read too much like a catalog of people, but again their historical value for who was at what party and when cannot be overstated.
If you can get past the group rape that he casually discusses while working on the boats and often underpaying sex workers... then.... those were the times I guess. Otherwise, definitely great book. I'm inspired by his ability to follow his passions with a lack of knowing where his income was coming from next. Loved learning more about Zora Hurston, the start of rent parties, etc.
