https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1034605.The_Country_Mouse_and_the_City_Mouse_The_Fox_and_the_Crow_The_Dog_and_His_Bone
Wonderful, whimsical stories that are perfect for even very young children.
I really enjoyed the three stories in this book illustrated by Richard Scarry - of course, I enjoy pretty much any children's book illustrated by Richard Scarry! The stories were easy to read the illustrations vibrant.
89 cents 207-55
This delightful tale of a country and city mouse discovering new things together is beautifully tied together in The Country Mouse and the City Mouse; The Fox and the Crow; The Dog and His Bone.
The main message of this book is that despite differences, there are always new perspectives and things to learn from others.
Young readers can better appreciate other people after reading this book, which makes it an excellent instructional book for the classroom.
Diversity can be introduced to young students through this book, as they learn the uniqueness of different beliefs, customs, and cultures.
In our summer reading quest of country mouse vs city mouse, this is the second review in the books.
We debated on this one 4 / 5 stars.
Little said 5 mama said 4 ...
so 4 1/2 would be the best ...
This story gave more about the scary part of the city for the country mouse visit.
The mice were female,which while the 2nd in so many books for this summer, female mice have not been the norm in this story.
This book had more stories but we stayed just int he country and city.
Did a little babysitting tonight and I had this delightful little story read to me by my good friend's little 3 year old boy. He did a great job of conveying the spirit of the story. It was a great bedtime story and I loved having it read to me. This is the wonderful power of reading stories at bedtime; it releases the wonder of being a child and the true "magic" of imagination. Great read; sweet and simple.
The country mouse and the city mouse told a story about always trying something new even if you don't like it. It's okay. At least you tried it. The fox and the crow told a story about not always believing what you hear because it may be a lie. I didn't really like this story. The dog and the bone tells a story about not being greedy because it is never a good thing. Be happy with what you have.
I loved this 3 story-storybook when I was a kid in the sixties. I had one of those "TV's" where you put the film strip in and it showed a picture one frame at a time on the screen. The strip would advance on it's own and as it did, you put on a record to coincide with the pictures. I also read along with a book. And the book was this one! so cute. I wish I had it for my grandkids.
Ah niin nostalgista, mutta toisaalta ärsyttävän päälleliimattuja opetuksia, joissa ahneus ja turhamaisuus saavat palkkansa ja maalla on niiiin paljon paremmin asiat kuin kaupungissa. Ja paskat!Mutta nostalgian voimin se toinen tähti.
Talk about a page turner!
A cute little jaunt with fairy animals by Scarry, with the moral usually attached to such fables.
quite funny and adorable.
I read this one many times when I was little.
I loved the comparison between a country and city mouse. They had so much exploring new things together.
Great Learning to Read book.
I loved this book as a child.
great storiesThis would make a lovely addition to anyone's personal library.
Like Aesop's fables, each story in this collection has a moral to teach a young reader. It's an easy recommendation to any parent.
This is one of the first books I remember my parents reading to me when I was a child. I consider myself a "country mouse", however, I do like to visit the city. :)
Nice stories.
