https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/359090.Upstairs_at_the_White_House
It covers life in the White House under the administrations of FDR, Truman, Eisenhower, Kennedy, Johnson and finally the first six weeks of Nixon's first term.
(For example, costs for a State Dinner are not to be charged to the Executive Residence.) They supervise the White House staff.
In bed, in the dark, she thought she grabbed Vicks Vapor Rub but instead.....read the book.
The Roosevelts were distant, the Trumans loving and discrete, the Eisenhowers visibly affectionate.
For full details of the goings-on in the White House under the Roosevelts read: No Ordinary Time: Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt: The Home Front in World War II instead.
Following a career as a civilian officer in the US Navy and then in the Veterans Association, he served as Chief Usher in the White House from 1941 to his retirement in 1969.
The post of Chief Usher may not sound very important, but in effect it meant that he ran the White House and was once called “the most powerful man in Washington next to the President”.
He was there when Roosevelt died and when Kennedy was assassinated.
This memoir, first published in 1973, remains a unique glimpse behind the scenes during the presidencies of the Roosevelts, Trumans, Eisenhowers, Kennedys, Johnsons and Nixons.
This book gives insight into who several of the first ladies of the twentieth century were as individuals and how their personalities and values contributed to the way they filled their roles within the While House.
As a reader I felt like I was learning history by chatting with someone who knew them personally.
B. West, chief usher of the White House, who worked with first ladies from the time of the Roosevelt administration to the first weeks of the Nixon presidency.
He gives a unique insight into the mentality of those working in the White House from one administration to another.
I really loved this book, it was fascinating. I would have given it 5 stars except it wasn't a page turning novel. I now want to read about the last 5 president's wives. I'm not sure I would be as impressed with their character.
His engrossing bestseller about his years as a White House usher is packed with gossipy tidbits about America's First Ladies.
President Kennedy used the White House pool to skinny dip twice a day, after which he padded up to his bed chamber clad only in his robe.
He accepts the changes which accompanied the arrival of each new family, but he also laments the consequences of some of their decisions:"The house “belongs” to whoever lives there.
The book covers the time from the Roosevelt (FDR) to the early part of the Nixon PresidencyThe Chief Usher is the manager of the Executive mansion.
The book provides the behind the scenes peek at the running of the White House.
Some Presidents and first ladies were incredibly demanding, while some were as gracious and pleasant as a friend.The book is packed with information about the needs and running of the White House.
As a trivia fan I found this book a delight as it is so packed with unusual and little known facts.I missed out on all the photographs because I read this as an audio book.
West served as White House Usher (the department responsible for the managing of White House operations) from late in the Roosevelt administration until a few weeks after the inauguration of Nixon.
This is a memoir of his 30 years serving in that post, focusing on his interactions with the First Ladies.
This is definitely NOT a kiss and tell; he is extremely deferential to the presidential families.
His overall impression of these families was completely consistent with everything I have read.
If this were not a book group choice, I would not have read it.
This book was an unexpected treat.
My favorite period in American history is the mid-20th century, which is right where this book starts off.
Chief Usher J.B. West begins working at the White House while the Roosevelt family was living there and he shares snippets of his experiences with first families through the early Nixon administration.
The authors did a marvelous job of taking me back in time and making the White House come to life.
Not once did they overstep or over-share any details that I think would embarrass any of the first families, yet they still managed to humanize each family.
Anyone who likes history and our presidents or is curious about life inside the White House will enjoy this book. It was a fascinating look at our first ladies, mostly, but also gave some glimpses of our leaders Roosevelt through the first month of the Nixon administration.
This was a thoroughly enjoyable listen. I learned SO MANY fun facts about the first ladies and the presidents served by J.B. West. The workings of the White House are fascinating.
He described the role of CH as the White House mansion general mgrwho saw to supervising / hiring/ firing 100 employeesIE maids, cooks, carpenters, engineers, gardeners, etc.
lived several yrs in Blair House (across the street) while the White House needed all but it's outside walls gutted.
The Trumans had more privacy @Blair House than in the WH.
Each POTUS, by tradition, hosted the Supreme Ct Justices in Sept, before the court came into session in Oct. The White House cooks & butlers got off work at 8PM, the exception being state dinners.
This is a very entertaining read about the White House and the families who live there. I truly enjoyed learning the role of the Chief Usher! The photographs were great, especially for this Canadian who has never visited the White House. (4 stars, KUYH November BOTM)
a very interesting book by J.B. West.
Mr. West was an usher at the White House from 1941-1969.
His job was to be of service an usher to the first ladies.
Every time a new president came in it was clear it was First Ladies "job" to decorate the White house and the rooms they occupied.
He shared about which rooms were occupied as bedrooms, others for entertaining.
I every much enjoyed reading what Mr. West had to share about working for the first ladies.
each lady being different from each other.
Mr. West always showed great respect about his experiences working with the first ladies.
This was a fascinating look behind the scenes of the lives of several First Ladies between the 1940s and 1960s. This wasn't a salacious, rumor-filled tell-all, but rather a personal and non-partisan view of what life was like for these women in the White House. The most riveting part was about Jackie Kennedy, but I enjoyed learning about each of these women, their preferences, and personalities.
Each president conducted their social and personal lives so differently, and West’s incredible recollections of 28 years offered an interesting portrait of each.
I love how he described the transition between Kennedy and Johnson: “The house looked the same, but slowly the Kennedy style was erased, just as the Eisenhower style had been erased previously.
Beginning with the departure of Boudin [the Kennedy designer], the gulf between Texas and Paris widened even further at the White House.” If you love hearing about the non-political life of our great leaders, this is for you!
Interesting book about the families that occupied in the White House from Presidents Roosevelt to Nixon.
Fascinating on many levels, it's a unique microcosm of our changing society.
The shift in social status and the way things are done, as the Roosevelt's upper crust lifestyle exits, compared to the bread and butter of Harry Truman's middle America.
Mami Eisenhower's velvet gloves fifties style housewife, contrasts Jackie Kennedy's upper crust finishing school style that brought a new elegance to the White House.
Everything is lovingly detailed from the strange requests, the guest and parties, births and deaths, making each First Family unique.
This book was just lovely.
I was worried this book would be gossipy but it's not at all!
J.B. West did a wonderful job describing each first Lady (Roosevelt-Nixon) and making her seem spectacular in her own right.
My favorite part is that presidents and other important people are mentioned when relevant, but the first ladies are the star.
His focus is with who they were at home with their families and working with the staff, not their public persona.
I'd never heard of J.B. West before, but I'm so glad I had the opportunity to appreciate and learn from his hard work and kind heart.
Wonderful book.
Fascinating look at the lives of the First Ladies in the White House. Memoir of Chief Usher throughout his 30 years of service, from Roosevelts to Nixons. An amazing view of things that changed our worlds.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book! The author worked in the White House during 5 presidents which is just amazing in and of itself. I loved reading about how the White House operates and how the changes in administration impacted those operations. The author, J.B. West, was one classy gentleman!
Fabulous!!Thoroughly enjoyable perspective on life in the White House. Well written and I loved the sheer amount of info about each First Lady's personality.
JB West worked as an assistant usher and then, later, as chief usher at the White House from 1941 until 1969.
In Upstairs at the White House, he tells many amusing and interesting anecdotes about his time managing the residence and working closely with the first ladies.
The book is split into sections about the Roosevelts, Trumans, Eisenhowers, Kennedys, Johnsons, and Nixons (though he only worked with Pat Nixon for about 6 weeks before he retired so that is a very short section).
It’s well-written and told in a laid back, storytelling way.
I highly recommend it to anyone interested in presidents.
Really interesting, but it began to feel a bit redundant by the end.
To be honest, this book, though it focuses exclusively on the domestic arrangements of Presidents Roosevelt through Nixon, this is also a good depiction of how any federal agency functions.
J.B. West presided over the circus that was the White House for 28 years and with the pre-Reagan civil service pension was able to retire after only 30 years of government service.
West was only on hand for two months of the Nixon White House, but for those of us who know how that story ends, there are a number of ironic passages.
JB West, the assistant then chief usher at the White House for 28 years, had some great stories to share.
The First Ladies from FDR to Nixon were all described with great respect.
What an incredible amount of work for the entire staff.
I'm sure that he could have chosen to put a different spin on some of the events but I'm glad he allowed us as the readers to read between the lines--if we chose to.
There certainly is a huge staff at the White House and, if they're all as patient as JB West, they must all wish for longer terms.
This is an absolutely fascinating, delightful book by the Chief Usher of the White House from FDR to the beginning days of the Nixon administration.
He gets free rent and an amount for the upkeep of the house, but the cost of many of those lavish parties are borne by the President himself.
I also never knew that there was an assassination attempt on Truman, that the White House had to be practically rebuilt during the Truman administration because it was literally falling apart.
I really loved how Mr. West had such unique comments to sum up each First Lady - they're always admiring but specific, showing how different people with opposite personality traits can be effective and excellent BECAUSE of their opposing personalities.
(For example, he'll show how social and gracious and grandiose one First Lady was and extol the virtues of their openness and flair, and then he'll turn around and show how private and unassuming another First Lady is and extol the virtues of their unapologetically very opposite approach.) So many great details and stories.
Loved this book and I wish there was one like it that included every First Family.
Mr. J.B. West was a very remarkable man.
He portrays the day to day lives of the families and especially the First Ladies.
I had no idea everything that went on in the White House and also how busy the First Ladies are while living in it.
I highly recommend this book, it is so well written and provides a glimpse into all that goes on in the White House and the roles that the First Ladies play in it.
After reading this book, I would like to have known Mr. West.
Such an interesting book!
Factual writing, but the memoir or historical account is truly elegant.
The author did well by everyone in the book, and the subject matter is one that could go many ways.
Details of the White House over 5 Presidencies, the First Ladies and their relationships with staff and their own families and how they changed the White House during their stays.
This is a wonderful book!
Plenty of historical information for fans of such details.
Reading it on kindle just now brought it home more than usual since a new President will take office soon.
This was a very interesting book to read.
J.B. West was usher and then Chief Usher in the White House from 1941 - 1969 with memories from the Roosevelts to the Nixons.
He basically ran the White House, especially the East Wing, which was the domain of the First Ladies.
His insights into their personalities, marriages, and other relationships were very interesting.
I've never been a big Jackie Kennedy fan, but my esteem of her went up and my esteem of Mamie Eisenhower went down.
I loved reading about the White House "lovebirds," Harry and Bess Truman.
If you like history and find human relationships interesting, you'll enjoy this book.
The author must have led a fascinating life but you really won't get a glimpse of that in this book. You have to give the guy credit, no secrets or scandals were discussed or even hinted at in this book. If you are looking for an in-depth look, personalities and deep, dark secrets, this is not the book for you. If you are instead looking for brief glimpses into the running of the white house, the superficial differences in the first families, and an easy read, this is it!
