https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3367148-child-of-all-nations
Though I am no expert on ten year old girls, Keun's Kully was convincing, even touching as the reader reinterprets her slender grasp of the larger events that chased Kully and her parents through all of Germany's neighboring countries in steadily tightening financial and legal straits, as well as her natural inclination to put a positive spin on her father's irresponsible profligacy that left Kully and her mother penniless, hungry and ashamed for weeks and months on end, imprisoned in expensive hotels whose mounting charges they could not possibly pay, while the author father hastened through the capitals of Europe - purportedly raising money from editors and publishers for articles, plays and novels that never quite came into being.

Die zehnjährige Kully ist wahrlich ein Kind aller Länder, sie reist mit ihren Eltern durch Tschechien, Österreich, Polen , Frankreich, Belgien, Holland, die Familie ist auf der Flucht aus Nazideutschland, Vaters Bücher wurden dort verbrannt.
Um die Schriftstellerin und ihre eigene Flucht aus Deutschland - ihre Bücher wurden 1933 beschlagnahmt - richtig erfassen, richtig würdigen zu können, ist nach meiner Meinung weiterführende Lektüre nötig.Ich empfehle hierzu Volker Weidermanns „Ostende 1936“ und „Verbrannte Bücher“ sowie von Irmgard Keun „Nach Mitternacht“.
We are left behind as surety, and my father says we’ve got as much riding on us as if we’d been fur coats or diamonds.Then the waiters in the hotel restaurant no longer brandish their napkins in that jolly way; instead they flick them at our table.
I absolutely adored Irmgard Keun's Gilgi which I read at the back end of last year, and purchased Child of All Nations upon the strength of it.
Our child narrator, Kully, roams all over Europe with her nervous mother and impoverished father, a writer who is always flitting from one city to the next when he runs out of money, and thinks he can borrow some from So-and-So or Such-and-Such.First written in 1938 and translated by Michael Hoffman, Child of All Nations is eminently readable.
Kully has such a captivating and believable narrative voice.
A fantastic novel, which I didn't want to end.
As the second world war becomes imminent, the family move from hotel to hotel all around Europe, trying to negotiate visas that keep them away from Germany where her father is wanted for writing things against the government.
The terror experienced by the adults, the erratic lifestyle and struggle is all fun and games to the fearless Kully.
Her father frequently abandons her and her mother as he tries to charm money out of people to fund their extravagant accommodation and drinking arrangements.
Though it deals with serious subject matter, the book is so much fun; hugely entertaining even while the sadness of the adults that Kully does not understand is evident.
" Down on the street,a man was whistling a tune.My mother trembled.'Did you hear that?Did you hear that whistling?That was the Horst Wessel Song that someone was whistling here in the street-here in Amsterdam. I don't know the song she means,but i wonder why it would make my mother so frightened and sad." This is a child's-eye view of Europe on the brink of World War II. Compelling and poignant. In 1933/34 all of Irmgard Keun's books were confiscated and forbidden by the Nazis.Child of all Nations was written in 1938 in exile.
It's a drama that happens in the middle of a train, with the help of actors who are called border guards.MarriageI would really like to be married to the Maharajas.
It seems a Maharaja has several wives, which I think is a good thing.
I don't know whether it's allowed to marry several Maharajas.
What person in their right mind would stay in the world with worries and strife if he could be in heaven instead, and it not even cost any money?Personal AppearanceIn America I met women who wanted me to look like Shirley Temple, and always have clean fingernails.
Irmgard Keun was een literaire hit in Duitsland in de vroege jaren dertig, maar nadat haar boeken door de nazi’s werden weggezet als “asfaltliteratuur met anti-Duitse strekking” ging ze op de dool.
Het geeft een originele en confronterende inkijk op de gruwel van het tijdsgewricht.Helaas slaagt Keun er maar ten dele in om dit standpunt helemaal geloofwaardig te brengen.
Wel een beetje kinky omdat vanuit het standpunt van een tienjarig meisje te doen, niet?Na de breuk met Roth (ook in 1938) vluchtte Keun terug naar Keulen, waar ze onder een onechte naam de oorlogsjaren zou doorkomen.
I adored this book.A tale of travel and displacement told solely from the point of view of Kully, a 9-year-old German girl, with the occasional descriptive letter from her father included for a dose of adult speak.Kully's dad is a more or less successful writer.
But her father always insists that they stay at the most expensive hotels and order the finest of foods.
After all, what would the waiters and hotel managers think otherwise?Her mother grows depressed, Kully spends her time acquiring various menageries, and her dad skips and hops across nations and borders as if World War II wasn't about to take off.
The author often goes on other travels, usually looking for money from publishers who might pay an advance, magazine editors who might commission an article or two, distant family members and similar sources.
The choice of narrator means that the author can cover serious subjects with a certain lightness of touch, which does not lesson the seriousness of the subjects, but does make reading about them a more enjoyable experience.Here is a sample (from early in the book, so as not to spoil anything):"...in Germany, before, I did go to school, and that’s where I learned to read and write.
Hum. Tough one. If this was written now, it would be ball-achingly dull and using a gun to hammer a nail. But it wasn't. So yeah? Perspective. Hell of a thing.3.timely/5
This way, Kully's limited yet realistic perception of traumatic daily life of an émigré family on the run to escape German authorities, allows the author to keep a hopeful and optimistic tone in her descriptions of circumstances and people.
Her second novel, "The Artificial Silk Girl", was a huge success in Germany when it was published in 1932 and immediately translated into English.
A CHILD OF ALL NATIONS is, for me at least, still a very worthy, if somewhat irreverent and highly unusual, voice to highlight the precarious fate of refugees and émigrés, escaping from Nazi Germany in the mid-thirties.*) Jenny Erpenbeck, BOOK OF WORDS (2004/2007)Marcelo Figueras, KAMCHATKA (2004/2011)
This way, Kully's limited yet realistic perception of traumatic daily life of an émigré family on the run to escape German authorities, allows the author to keep a hopeful and optimistic tone in her descriptions of circumstances and people.
Reading this brief intense novel now, more than seventy years after it was first published in 1938, we can place the girl and her story into a broader historical context.
A CHILD OF ALL NATIONS is, for me at least, still a very worthy, if somewhat irreverent and highly unusual, voice to highlight the precarious fate of refugees and émigrés, escaping from Nazi Germany in the mid-thirties.*) Jenny Erpenbeck, BOOK OF WORDS (2004/2007)Marcelo Figueras, KAMCHATKA (2004/2011)
In this utterly enchanting novel, some of the great themes of 1930's Europe are refracted through the eyes of a child who is both naive and wise beyond her years.Kully knows some things you don't learn at school.
And she knows that she and her parents can't go back to Germany again - her father's books are banned there.
But there are also things she doesn't understand, like why there might be a war in Europe - just that there are men named Hitler, Mussolini and Chamberlain involved.
Meanwhile she and her parents roam through Europe.
auch wenn es ein kinderbuch ist, erschließen sich wohl die andeutungen der auswirkungen des exils hauptsächlich den erwachsenen. gerade dadurch, dass der erzähler ein kind in all seiner naivität ist, geht einem die geschichte unglaublich nah.
Narrator: Lauren Davis, 5* performance. Her childlike reading voice was exactly like a 9-year-old Kully would sound. I even looked up Davis to find out if she was adult.
Definitely worth the read. I enjoyed reading a book from the eyes of a 9-year-old which reminded me of Anne Frank, one on the verge of the war and the other during it.
Thoroughly stonking good read ♥♥
Thoroughly stonking good read ♥️♥️
3,5*
Modern in its tone, this is a remarkable look at the effects of fascism through the eyes of a child who knows too much about things no one should know. This book is all the more remarkable for having been written in 1938 before the author could know all that was coming. Kully certainly precedes and influences Holden Caulfield in her observations about adult life.
They usually manage, but I know they often don't like me much." Kully is the nine-year-old daughter of a writer exiled from Germany for penning novels critical of the Nazis.
Their life is one of extremes: the father disappears to the other side of Europe while mother and daughter survive on a one meal a day and sew their own clothes in their hotel room.
Kully's father succumbs to alcoholism and 'jokes' about committing family suicide if his situation doesn't improve, and her mother constantly teeters on the brink of a nervous breakdown.
There's only one detail that bothers me: (view spoiler)[Halfway through the book, Kully's mother mentions that she's pregnant.
I must admit I felt a bit deflated when I read in Michael Hofmann's Afterword that the narrative voice in this book is reminiscent of Kay Thompson's Eloise.
Kully's father is the archetypal charming bounder, unashamed to beg for money that he'll squander a minute later on champagne, poorly chosen gifts and lavish tips.
Caught between a flamboyant father and a submissive mother, Kully is the only grown-up in her family.
The story would be a bit too familiar, if it wasn't played on the background of Europe in the late 1930s, with the issue of visas looming so large.
Wonderlijke exilroman. Grappig en tegelijk beklemmend.
I love books that are written from a child's point of view especially when the child is in difficult circumstances. It's like they have their own little microcosmic world within the larger adult world. Kully's view of things was so interesting and quirky. I love how her education came from viewing and interacting practically with the world around her. Some parts of the book were really funny where as others were poignant but it was a bit frustrating when Kully's mother didn't make it onto the ship and the ending was quite abrupt.
Het leven door de ogen van een meisje, dat door haar ouders - een schrijver en zijn vrouw - op sleeptouw wordt genomen door een Europa op de vooravond van de Tweede Wereldoorlog. Ze beschrijft hoe haar vader soms wekenlang verdwijnt, en zij en haar moeder moeten overleven in hotels, terwijl de rekeningen steeds verder oplopen. Het meisje, Kully, stelt vast, maar oordeelt en veroordeelt niet. Dat maakt van het boek een hard, maar pakkend relaas. Nooit kil, wel mooi. Dat de vader gebaseerd is op haar minnaar Joseph Roth, maakt dat het boek nog intiemer wordt.
Child of All Nations was a wonderful reminder that you don't have to understand what is happening around you to be deeply impacted by it. Despite being a story that should have been depressing you walk away remembering the wonder of childhood.
This is one of the most delightful books I've ever read. Shocking and insightful. It also dredged up a lot of feelings about my own nomadic childhood, my own isolation and seeing that childhood described so beautifully is really powerful.
The audiobook is annoying. I hate an adult woman talking in a child's voice. Just irritating.
It's about refugees from Germany.
The child of all nations is Kully, daughter to Annie & Peter.
Peter is a German author who has criticized the Nazis and therefore cannot live in Germany.
Keun writes from the perspective of Kully.
Did the voice convince me as child-like?
I don't know whether Keun herself ever traveled to the US.
No surprise; it's hard to write from a child's perspective for adults.
We all know what happened next, but Keun did not in 1938.117"no one wants to have us in their country, even though we're not at all harmful and in fact just like other people."
