https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/408766.George_and_Martha
This book made me do it not once, but 3 times.I've read a lot of kids books to my children - we don't have a TV - but George and Martha is one of the best ones.
It's a cross between Roald Dahl's children's books and David Sedaris' memoirs...My boys (both 8) favorite story in it is the Mirror one.
When asked how many stars to give the book they said 10 when I gave them the choice between 1 and 5.My favorite's the one where George is gawking at Martha having a bath.
They taught me to never say, "I told you so". Also, don't be vain, dancing is good, and you've got to be able to laugh at yourself. Probably most importantly, to say, "Voulez-vous m'embrasser?" when I want a kiss.These stories are perfect! And so funny. I've been reading them to my soon-to-be nieces and they love them, too. Yay!Sarah Montambo Powell.
I read/re-read this wry and exquisitely composed collection in bits every night before bed for the past month and nothing has made me feel better in a long time. The words have the crisp scansion of poetry and the pictures the most loopy and deceptive kind of sprezzatura - I mean, this motherfucker knew how to block a scene! Great art for all people of all ages. Friends = 4ever.

We have the complete collection (all of the George and Martha books in one volume).
Mostly because my 2 year old reads them to herself which leaves us in hysterical giggles (note, she has a hard time with "s" at the beginning of words...)."George and Marfa and da pit pea poop.
Marfa like to make poop.
But George no like poop.
He eat da poop.
But Marfa brings more poop she make.
George hide poop in his shoes.
Marfa see him hide da poop.
Marfa no make poop anymore.
Marfa make cookies!
And George eat dem all up!
George and Martha are the hippo version of Frog and Toad, or maybe Frog and Toad are the amphibian version of George and Martha. As a child, I made Dad read our paperback copies of these stories until the books fell apart. My favorite stories were the one where George gets a gold tooth and the one where George peeks in Martha's bathroom window, prompting her to upturn the entire bathtub onto his head.
You've gotta have an oddball sense of humor to really enjoy these stories-- they'll have a hilariously bizarre plot, then end abruptly! You find yourself turning the last page of each story back and forth, wondering if you skipped something. I happen to like those sorts of things, so this compilation is a favorite. I especially like the story about narcissistic Martha's mirror...
What is it about George and Martha? It has a similar charm to Frog & Toad. Just simple, subtle, tongue-in-cheek stories. Awesome.
No one, NO ONE, is as wonderful as James Marshall. Profound and funny, sophisticated and simple, his books are inimitable, delightful, evergreen. This collection of all the George and Martha stories is a gem. The essays by friends and admirers are a bonus, especially Maurice Sendak's tribute and Jon Scieszka's witty summary.
Wonderful collection of my favorite childhood picture books.
I loved George and Martha when I was growing up.
These books are about two hippo friends who always find themselves in hilarious and ridiculous conflicts, but yet somehow find a happy solution.
You can purchase the series in a compilation or individually.
I prefer the compilation, but the individual books are great for kids because they’re easier to handle.
This series is perfect for early grade classrooms and emergent readers.
The George and Martha series teaches children about realistic life lessons in a fun and amusing format.
This book is great for conveying the importance of friendships, consideration, honesty, etc.
to your children.
The title is speaks for itself: George and Martha are two lovable best friends who enjoy a series of mundane yet delightful "adventures" together that teach children the value of friendship without sounding at all didactic.
I think Martha's adventure with the diving board and with George's Mexican jumping bean collection are my favorites.
The illustrations are just great, and I prefer the separate, soft cover books to the complete edition because, as a kid, it was always fun to check out a stack of books from the local library and be able to brag that I'd read several "all by myself"!
This is friendship.At first I was a little skeptical.
There didn't seem to be much substance in drawing or text.
But a closer look showed me a whole lot going on between the lines.
And it's funny how a couple strokes of the pen could put a whole world of emotion into the eyes of Martha or the posture of George.
Brilliant.
Funny and brilliant.
This edition is especially nice because I love all the bits about the life of James Marshall.
The memories of other authors / illustrators make me wish that I'd been able to know him as well.
Definitely worth looking at.
Fantastic children stories about two best friends. I loved these stories growing up! And if you can find the hardcover version of George and Martha (not the complete stories, but the original book) it smells wonderful! I'm such a book nerd, I love the smells of certain books, and this was maybe the first book whose smell I fell in love with!
Fantastic! I think I'm going to buy this book for myself! I always loved George and Martha as a kid. It turns out I still love them as an adult! These books are so smart and funny! If I had children, I would rather have the separate books. The big book is hard to handle when reading to a child on your lap. However, as a wierdo adult, the big book works well!
The complete collection of the illustrated stories of George and Martha, two hippos who are best friends. These simple and very short stories teach some of the best lessons about friendship. There are also some great one liners: "For Shame" "I told some fibs" "We are friends but there is such a thing as privacy" "Have some consideration!"
George and Martha. SO FUNNY. Snort milk through your nose funny. These friends are prettied up or acting daintily around each other. Sometimes they get along and sometimes George does something that makes Martha want to punch him in the nose, like read her journal! A great book to read to your kids!
I never read picture books when I was a kid (it was all newspapers, street signs, and my mom's nursing textbooks for me), so I didn't encounter this series until I had to read it to other people's kids. And it blew my mind: you can tell Marshall is half-talking to us adults with his itchy relationship lessons and trickster dance maneuvers. The most sublime couple ever, these two hippos.
The BEST!p.s. Do you know what famous George and Martha, Marshall named his hippos after (hint: not George and Martha Washington). It was the characters from the play/movie, Who's Afraid of Virgina Woolfe. That's how you know Marshall was awesome.
You'd be a damn fool not to love a big fat hippo with an unstoppable sweet-tooth. And besides, the word "hippopotami" is totally rad and translates awesomely into any language (as does "jellyfish" for your information.)
it is amazing what emotions marshall can convey via two short lines as hippo eyes. so funny and never pandering to the grown-ups who read it (ahem). this compilation also features a splendid introduction by maurice sendak.
One of the greatest books in my home. A must for all ages!!! Are George and Martha a couple? Or just great friends? It doesn't matter. They find themselves in situations that everyone can relate to.
We love these. Marshall's work communicates hilarity and feelings with spare lines and minimal words. Borrowed from the library three years ago and spent our vacation at OBX reading it on a sunny deck to C (then 5) and N (then 2). Ended up buying a copy and they still love it.
I just finished reading this book to my sweetie last night. They've been wonderful bedtime stories -- full of James Marshall's sweet and funny touches... We enjoyed this so much that we're going to read them all again!
George and Martha are hilarious.
One of my favorites in my childhood.
I like when George drew the scary picture of Martha because she looked in the mirror too much!
George and Martha.two hippos.in a confusing world , they explore etiquette, friendship, pea soup, carnivals,sleepy picnics, journal writing, and gold teeth.absurdity ensues.
One of my all time favorites - and I even like the split pea soup.
A book everyone will LOVE!!!
