https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34275222-force-of-nature
But now, as he stood in front of that forlorn cabin, he could almost hear an insistent whisper in his own mind. Get away. Run. 4 1/2 stars. Oh, I liked this book a lot. I ended up enjoying it even more than Harper's The Dry because, though both were compelling, this one felt less formulaic. And way more creepy.Harper is fantastic at creating a strong sense of place and an atmosphere that creeps under your skin. The settings in her two novels are very different, but each is extremely important t
I loved it.Detective Aaron Falk returns once again to investigate what happened to Alice, the woman who is missing.
Alternating between the now, in which Falk investigates what happened, and the then, in which tensions rise between the five women, there is a breathless race between Falk's discoveries and the unveiling of the story.
The tensions and dynamics between the five women are fascinating, and my mind was spinning all over the place.
I don't think it matters if you guess the outcome because the getting there is fun regardless.Alongside this, we also get more of a look inside Falk's life and mind.
And two: Alice had a mean streak so sharp it could cut you."It's no secret that I adored Jane Harper's 2017 (US) debut The Dry, but that didn't ensure I would love her sophomore novel (and follow up in the Aaron Falk series) Force Of Nature.
In Force Of Nature, things are switched up a big and, while it is still a procedural, it's not as rigid in it's investigation and our team has to improvise and think of new ways to solve a mystery with no evidence and no body.
Alice has gone missing on the hike and Aaron is guilt ridden, suspecting the worst, thinking they endangered her life.
The story follows the search for Alice and the parallel narrative that tells us what happened amongst the group of lost women as they struggle in the dense bushland, cold, wet, hungry, thirsty and desperate to survive.Jill Bailey is viewed as nominally in charge due to her executive position in the company, although Alice constantly hacks away at her authority in her efforts to return to Melbourne to be with her daughter, Margot.
I loved her thriller, The Dry, for a first novel it was fantastic.
This time Aaron Falk and his partner Carmen are called to the Giralang Range, where a woman is missing.
So much going on behind the scenes, secrets, jealousy, grudges, but what happened and when?
There are layers upon layers, misdirections, and everytime something new is discovered, there is still more waiting.Harper does a fantastic job in building her stories, they build gradually, and at the same time they are understated until the denoument.
No big gory, or shocking scenes, just good storytelling done right.
A solid, gripping, edgy thriller-When five women go on a team building expedition out in the unforgiving and dangerous Australian Giralang Ranges, which was also once upon a time, the stomping grounds of a serial killer, whose son may be following in his father’s footsteps, things immediately go awry.
Among the group, is whistleblower Alice Russell, who is attempting to divulge to Aaron Falk and his partner, Carmen, information regarding a massive money laundering scheme her bosses are running through their company.
After receiving a puzzling and cryptic call from Alice, Aaron and Carmen arrive on the scene to help with the rescue efforts while also trying to determine if their investigation may have put Alice in danger.
And her new novel “Force of Nature” is equally as good.
Five women depart on a corporate team building exercise in the Australian wilderness and become lost without food, water, or adequate shelter.
“Force of Nature” is meticulously plotted and the crime investigation was riveting.
So read “Force of Nature” for the crime investigation, the fascinating and complex characters, the evocative descriptions of the Australian wilderness, but make sure you read it!Thank you to Flatiron Books and NetGalley for providing an advance copy of this book in exchange for my honest review.
I love the subtle elegance of Harper's writing. Force of Nature didn't have the magic of The Dry (at least for my reading experience), and I wish there had been more of Aaron Falk. However, this is still a worthy read! Five women take part in a corporate retreat in the Gralong Ranges. They are supposed to spend three days navigating a trail, camping, and teambuilding. However, only four of them return. How is this connected to Aaron Falk? The one woman who doesn’t make it back, Alice, was Falk’
Force of Nature didn't have the magic of The Dry (at least for my reading experience), and I wish there had been more of Aaron Falk.
He and his partner Carmen investigate her disappearance.Similar to The Dry, the environment takes on a role of a character--this time around it's the unforgiving, brutal Giralong ranges which tests the survival skills of those who embark on its trails.
Falk’s character is more developed than he was in The Dry, but I wanted more of him!
I am interested to see how his relationship with Carmen plays out.
Wasn't she supposed to leave her cell phone behind?While Falk and his partner, Cameron try to figure out what happened on this retreat, Falk also wrestles with his past relationship with his father.
Like the missing woman, Falk seems a little lost himself in this book.
He needs to move on from a past romantic relationship and make peace with his own past, while trying to figure out who, if anyone, is telling the truth and who has something to hide.As the women are interrogated and the pieces come together, the reader and Falk learn what happened at the same time.
But, instead being in the outback, we are now in the wilderness of Australia for the sequel to The Dry. Our favourite agent Falk, who has recovered from his harrowing ordeal in The Dry, is back in the search for a woman who has been lost on a corporate excursion into the bush lands in the Giralang ranges.It's a mystery of magnitude as Falk has been working with the missing woman in order to prosecute her boss and his company.
Falk still remains on an aloof, introverted but highly likeable guy.
Still an enjoyable one and hope there's a 3rd in the Falk series.
Even the firm's chairwoman and chief executive, brother and sister, are part of the group heading out.The group is divided into men and women, and each will be expected to traverse a path through the wilderness, camp out (with supplies provided by the outfitter running the retreat), and head back to the starting point two days later.Yet it doesn't quite go as planned, at least for the women's group.
Or is there another dangerous presence lurking in the wild?In an effort to find Alice and keep their investigation alive, Aaron and Carmen's search will take them deep into the menacing wilderness of the Giralang Ranges.
One of these clueless individuals, Alice, has been set up by Falk and his team to monitor the illegal transactions of the mother ship, BaileyTennants, run by a brother and sister team which they inherited from their father.
I would seriously encourage you to pick up The Dry first, although this one reads well as a standalone.When all is said and done and the wasps come homes to roost, it is the stellar writing talent of Jane Harper that seals the deal for me.
FORCE OF NATURE does not disappoint and will cement Harper as your go-to mystery/psychological suspense author.
Let me tell you, when you turn that last page, you'll breathe a sigh of relief that you’re snugly wrapped in front of your fireplace and not out in the FORCE OF NATURE battling the elements.Jane Harper is first and foremost a fabulous, effortless writer.
It is easily a standalone novel, but there is so much back story on Aaron Falk that a new reader would be greatly missing out by reading the two books out of order.
I think I liked this book even more than “The Dry”.
Loved the story itself!!!
.....*Women* hiking in the wilderness grabbed me from the start.
Five women - One goes missing......Many side stories - added tenderness, and compelling issues to explore:bullying, money laundering, an eating disorder, drug abuse, troubled father/son relationship......The journey was completely engrossing!
I was left guessing along with them to the final end.
....The final -3rd book -“The Lost Man”- in this trilogy will be released in Feb. 2019.
I honestly almost forgot how much I like Jane Harper since reading “The Dry” over a year ago.
I won this book in a giveaway!I loved The Dry, this author’s first novel!
Couldn’t wait to meet Aaron Falk again.
This book is good, Falk and his partner have been working with a whistleblower(Alice) for a company that has been laundering money for a long time.So Alice and four other women and a group of five men are sent separate ways on a team building company retreat in the Giralang Ranges...very dense forest land...very atmospheric..the women’s group encounters so many problems and Alice goes missing.
The chapters alternate between the time during the retreat, and Falk’s investigation into what happened to Alice.
Another gripping and suspenseful page-turner from Jane Harper!Last year, I read and loved Harper’s debut novel “The Dry” and was really looking forward to Book #2.
This second book in the series was impressive - a very entertaining and addictive read.
Both novels are very intriguing and well-written atmospheric thrillers, however, I did feel that “The Dry” was slightly more captivating and intense.Harper has an amazing knack for pulling you deep into the atmosphere of the story without being too wordy.
I wanted it to move forward a little quicker at times.
I highly recommend this series!
if five women go out in the woods today, theyre sure for a great surprise.
sometimes you just need a good mystery/thriller to give you life, you know?
luckily, it didnt disappoint.
one thing i really like about harpers stories is how she chooses to let the information unfold.
(view spoiler)[goodness, i absolutely despise it when the big reveal is ‘it was an accident.’ ughhh.
i mean, i could tell that was where this was headed, so im not surprised.
just disappointed.
(hide spoiler)]but overall, this was a good read.
so its the perfect story for anyone needing a quick and unique domestic thriller!↠ 3.5 stars
First and foremost, a large thank you to NetGalley, Jane Harper, and Flatiron Books for providing me with a copy of this publication, which allows me to provide you with an unbiased review.After devouring Jane Harper’s debut novel, I could not wait to get my hands on this sequel, which pulls Aaron Falk back into the mix.
Fans of Aaron Falk are privy to more of his development, in a novel that proves vastly different from the debut thriller.
Harper not only sketches out a solid character for each of them, but builds on it by weaving their stories together with Alice Russell, all while keeping events that occurred in the forest a secret until the very end.
Copy furnished by Net Galley for the price of a review.A corporate retreat meant to exercise team-building skills and personal development goes sideways in a hurry.
They are a motley crew made up of senior staff members, a data clerk, an office assistant administrative coordinator (Ahem!
Office-speak, gotta get it right!), etc.
One of these women will not be returning with the others at trail's end.The parallels that run throughout this novel are right on the money.
An easy read and decent mystery, with just a wee peep at the not-so-pretty underpinnings of the corporate world.
Five women go out on a corporate retreat, but only four come back.
Of course, the question for both the reader and Aaron Falk, is whom to believe.
Alice, the missing woman, wasn’t well liked by the other four women.
In fact, she was working for Aaron and he suffers the guilt from wondering if his pressure on her is to blame.
Nearly, but not quite as good as Harper’s first novel, The Dry. It’s a character driven story.
You learn, little by little, how the characters are tied together and what secrets each is keeping.
Like someone leaving breadcrumb clues for the reader to pick up.
Oh well for what's it worth, Jane Harper is a very good story-teller, and while her debut novel The Dry was a book that helped restored my dying faith on the genre of mystery/thriller, this one wasn't as special as I hoped it to be.
With The dry, the beauty was in the details, the imagery, the character development and of course the dialogue but with this book, it breaks my heart to say it failed to deliver on any of those front and because of its lacklustre narrative, soulless dialogue and stilted character development, it also failed to deliver the dynamic ending it needed.
If you guys truly want to experience the real power of Jane Harper’s storytelling, please skip this one and give The Dry a try.
I really enjoyed “The Dry” by Jane Harper, loving the protagonist Aaron Falk and the great mystery in that book.
The women in the group are quite well described, although I found them a little unbelievable since there didn’t seem to be a true leader or sincerely nice team player among them.
I really like to have believable characters and the fact that so many people were lying in the end, just didn’t seem plausible.
I also really enjoy Aaron Falk and Carmen and am looking forward to his next investigation/adventure which is hinted about at the end of the book.
Her descriptions of the Australian bush are real, her characters are believable and multi faceted and speak to each other like real human beings.
I knew at once I was in for an enjoyable read.I am very glad I have never worked in an office culture where employees who have barely any experience of hiking and camping are expected to go bush for three days with people they don't even like.
(hide spoiler)])I liked the way Harper has brought Aaron Falk back to her second book and will be very happy if she continues with him as the main character of a series.
I mean, come on, most corporate environments are already like a caged death-match in the office.
I was thinking that four out of five making it back alive was a pretty good day.Even the killer spiders have things that can kill them in the Outback.Aaron Falk is actually a government agent in accounting, so he's not usually out solving crimes in the field, but in this case he has to find the missing woman because she's his informant.
Since the documents were about the corporation she was on a retreat with, he's worried that someone found out and killed her.
Five women are forced to go into a wilderness corporate retreat to improve performance and morale among employees.
The novel takes place in the Australian wilderness and is told from different points of view.
I liked that the characters had very different personalities and that the clash of their decisions made the novel more captivating to read.This is the second novel in this series (Aaron Falk #2), the first one is The Dry and you do not have to read it to be able to follow this one.Overall, I enjoyed the novel.
It reminded me of another novel I liked, The River at Night in which four friends fight to survive a white-water rafting accident in the Maine wilderness.
The problem is if you don’t care about the characters, you don’t really care about their family issues.Federal Agent Aaron Falk and his partner, Carmen Cooper, investigate financial crimes.
I must say it got awfully old reading “Get the contracts.” I really like Aaron and I wanted him to shine in this book as much as he did in The Dry, but I had a hard time accepting his and Carmen’s involvement in the missing person case.As someone who has spent lots of time camping and hiking in forests and wilderness, I immediately got the cold and rainy atmosphere of this book.
When the women's group comes out of the bush late Sunday, they are bruised, bloodied, snakebit - and missing an important member of the group, Alice Russell.
Turns out Alice was reluctantly working with Aaron Falk and his partner Carmen Cooper as a whistleblower on a money-laundering scheme at BaileyTennants.
Listening again to the scratchy message after word comes through that Alice is missing, Aaron and Carmen are only able to discern two faint words....."hurt her."There's a nice level of suspense throughout that makes it hard to put the book down, which is what you want to have in an effective thriller.
The pressure to please must be intense, and I certainly sympathize and wanted to try not to compare this book to Harper's previous novel, The Dry, which I very much enjoyed.
I feel as if I'm rambling a bit, but to be honest, I don't really know what to say about the plot of this book.
If you've been reading my reviews for a while, you'll know that I am a fan of character-driven books, so the somewhat unspectacular plot didn't bother me that much since Falk is a really good character.I'll end this rambling review by saying I have certainly read much, much worse sophomore novels (ahem .
This is a plot that has been written and written and written again. Nice follow up to The Dry but not noteworthy.
” We are gathered togetherWe are hidden from view—In a tangle of laurel, we tear at our sorrowLike bread and we start up anew;Where a circus stands blazingAnd steam engines brake and whineIn a razed hobo jungle your lost and found wonderHas risen and mixes with mine“Then, foolish we are, in the presence of GodAnd what all his grave angels have done—In love's growling weather, if we're dreaming togetherOf a heaven apart from this one…Apart from our own”  --Grave Angels, lyrics by Joe Henry ”Late
With all that going on, somehow Harper also managed to release the second book in this Aaron Falk series, ‘The Dry’ being #1, and now ‘Force of Nature’ being #2.
Corporate Team Building events are a common occurrence there these days, and as Federal Agent Aaron Falk is working on an investigation of BaileyTennants, with the help of one of their employees, Bailey Tennants is holding a Corporate Team Building event in these tough, and somewhat treacherous, Giralong Ranges.In the course of events during this Team Building, one team of women and a second team of men set off to be the winning team, the first team to arrive at the end.
Another great yarn by this talented Aussie author.
Harper is great - she develops characters flawlessly.
We really get inside the heads.
Review to come when I can!I did not take notes!
It is too late for me to review this properly.
I didn't love it as much as The Dry, but that's ok, each book needs to be taken on its own merit, and what a hard act to follow anyway!I loved Faulk returning, and will love to read about him again.
But also very tragic with the behind the scenes relationships also.Recommended reading even though not as good as its predecessor.
