https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/130916.The_Saving_Graces
I read for escapism, not to experience middle aged women and all their various (real-life) issues.
I love the guarantee of a happily ever after that romances provide.However, I've heard a lot about Patricia Gaffney lately, and how she is SUCH a great author.
And, she was a romance author before she began writing general fiction.I am glad I did.
I find that a balance between introspection, good character interaction, and dialogue are integral to a well-written novel.Also, I love reading about really good friends.
There's nothing like girlfriends, and this sort of book reminds me of that.I can't wait to read more by Patricia Gaffney.
This is the 4th time I've read this book...I've read it for various groups: with varied friends/groups of friends, book club, and now, for a "book club" with my 3 sisters-in-laws.
That is perhaps because I've lived more of life, and appreciate more and more the sharings and discussions between friends (and yes, I consider my sisters-in-laws true friends).
So, discussing the friendships within this book and relating them to real life is rich and wonderful.
Isn't it wonderful that books unite us and make us appreciate one another and life in general?
Some sort of sisterhood of the travelling pants with women on their forties.Lee, Isabel, Rudy and Emma have created a group about 10 years ago which they've called "The Saving Graces".
Initially on their meetings they had topics to discuss, but that was probably when they were't true friends yet.They are all different but complement each other.
According to them, they've all managed to survive their childhood.Do not expect great literature with this book, but I came across it at the right time and on the right place.
I'll surely be looking for more books from this author since this was the first one I read from her.
Told from the perspective of four friends who call themselves The Saving Graces, we get a story of friendship that endures through the ups and downs of life.
That seems so trite as I write it but, as we all know, the ups and downs are far from trivial and what they experience touches on some of the hardest things women have to go through.
Each chapter is told by one of the graces points of view, so we get a close up look at all of them, but it's what they say when the other one is speaking that tells the most.The Saving Graces is about friendships all women want.
I was ordering some books on Barnes & Noble's website, and I was up to about $22.
If you order $25 worth of books, then you get free shipping.
Some things are just meant to be.I loved the story lines in this book.
As a bonus, the book is based in DC.
Books based in your own city are always a little more interesting to read because you pick up on some of the extra references.I read this on the beach and found myself trying not to smile to much, for fear of other beach-goers thinking I was crazy.
I couldn't stand Rudy and her abhorrent husband whom she should have left before they even got married.
I don't know whether it's just me and my weird way of thinking, but if I were 40 years old like Lee here, I would've turned to the doctor a lot sooner and wouldn't have been all that surprised if my attempts without the doctors' help failed.The only saving grace this book had (pun intended), was Isabel...
And really, the only reason I'm not giving this book even less stars, is because of the way Gaffney wrote Isabel's story.
You have your obligatory women's group with one of each personality type.
You have your uptight organized one, your wild insecure one, your wise spiritual one and your neurotic damaged one.
And you have your usual women's group themes.
There's someone struggling with infertility, someone trying to get over a damaged childhood, someone with cancer and someone fighting the urge to commit adultery.
Still, Gaffney is a good storyteller.
I wanted the couple to get their kid and I was rooting for the one to leave her crazy husband.
Good beach book.

I just can't get into this book. I find it very difficult to follow and I can't get close to the characters. Sadly, putting it down for now.
Page 256...
he’s one of those rare men who don’t feel bound to have an opinion on everything.
Or worse, a solution.Page 260Yesterday’s revelations continue.
Ultimately, in the very grand scheme of things, it’s irrelevant whether my life lasts fifty more years, or five.
The point is to live it, not wait through it.
How foolish I would be to let my mortality, which has been there all along, since he second of by birth, spoil my love of these things.
I’ll have to remind myself constantly, but starting now, I intend to live until I die.
Wonderful story of four best friends--sort of like the Traveling Pants books for adults. It deals with some heavy life issues--affairs, divorce, health, infertility--in short, real life stuff. I loved reading how these women supported and loved each other through everything life throws at them. Again, with the language disclaimer though--not lots, but ocassionally BAD. All in all though, a wonderful book about women.
This was a delightful book. I really liked it a lot, and I only cried a wee bit at the end. I have my own "graces" in my life, and this book made me really appreciate those special women that I love so much. BNIASW.
Calling themselves the 'Saving Graces', this quartet is united by understanding, honesty, and acceptance - interweaving bonds of familiarity that have only strengthened as the years go by...Emma, a sharp-tongued, soft-hearted skeptic, doesn't believe in love - until she meets the one man she can never have.
Emma, Rudy, Lee, and Isabel will each face a crisis of such astounding proportions that the strength of the bonds of love, loyalty, courage, and friendship that these remarkable women share, will ultimately be tested like never before.
Elle est l’auteur à succès de 17 romans dont Les quatre Grâces, un best-seller du New York Times, de Publishers Weekly et de USA Today.
Les quatre Grâces ont su inspirer Patricia Gaffney.
Rédigée dans l'esprit de ces séries télé qui nous rendent accro, cette saga populaire pleine d'émotion et d'humour est une véritable leçon de vie !Patricia Gaffney, dont il s'agit ici du premier roman publié en France, signe un roman revigorant et plein de tonus qui célèbre d'une très jolie façon l'amitié l'amitié et la solidarité féminine.Un très bon roman de vacances, parfait pour se détendre et s'émouvoir !

Each woman has a different personality, adding interest to the group yet it seems that the one trait each person is lacking is found in abundance among the other members and they play off this system of helping each other through the rough spots in their lives.
When a tragedy brings all four women together to support each another, the true depth of their friendship and individual strengths is tested.
While I don't have an abundance of friends, I found the bound between the woman and their individual stories believable.
I would definitely recommend this for anyone wanting a good bonding story.
I had a hard time getting into this book.
what a great portrayal of these women, who could be anyone we actually have as friends.
some people, especially women i know, say that only two can have a friendship.
these women were not perfect, they had their fights, but they still remained friends, and that is what friendship it.
this will make you laugh and cry at the same time.
truly a wonderful read for every woman in a friendship with other women.
this book made me stop and think about my friendships with my women friends.
great book, greatly written.
At first I thought the book was rather slow, but as I read on it became more involved and interesting.
I like stories about people and how they act between each other.
This book allow a perspective from each of the specific characters and made it more rounded and less judgmental.
The men in this story seem to be as involved in their relationship with these women as the women and that I found it comforting and hopeful.
At the end I wanted more of the story, I wanted to know what happen next and to me that is a sign of a good book.
Critique complète sur mon blog Vous êtes fatigué des histoires d’amour ? Voici une magnifique histoire d’amitié. C’est l’histoire de quatre copines, Emma, Rudy, Lee et Isabel qui depuis dix ans se retrouvent une fois par semaine dans un groupe de discussion. Elles sont différentes, elles ont chacune leurs difficultés, leur histoire et leur personnalité, mais ensemble, elles affrontent la vie un peu plus facilement.  La fin de la critique sur mon blog  Suivez-moi sur Facebook pour être informés
Critique complète sur mon blog
Vous êtes fatigué des histoires d’amour ? Voici une magnifique histoire d’amitié. C’est l’histoire de quatre copines, Emma, Rudy, Lee et Isabel qui depuis dix ans se retrouvent une fois par semaine dans un groupe de discussion. Elles sont différentes, elles ont chacune leurs difficultés, leur histoire et leur personnalité, mais ensemble, elles affrontent la vie un peu plus facilement. 
  La fin de la critique sur mon blog

  Suivez-moi sur Facebook pour être informés des nouveaux articles
This was one of my all time favorite books.
I recommended this to my sisters and they recommended it to their friends and within a month (without exaggeration) there were at least a dozen of us who had read the book and were all in love with it.
I didn't want it to end!
From the first page I was "part of their lives" and didn't want to "come home." I laughed out loud and cried ...
not little tear ...
BIG SLOPPY WET TEARS!Excellent book.
Would love to see a movie made of this wonderful story!
This is my first Patricia Gaffney and (yet another) thing I have tried on Jennifer Crusie's recommendation (yes, I can think for myself, thanks for asking).The Saving Graces is a book about friendship. Four women have enjoyed more than ten years of shared life and love; helping each other in more ways than can be counted.To read the rest of this review, please visithttp://www.trashionista.com/2008/01/b...
I decided to clean out my books and this was the first I picked up. Figured I had read it but couldn't remember the story (scary isn't it?) So I started reading it and really could relate to it. Kept thinking about my friendships and how we have all gone through stuff and how it has changed us. Woke up this am and finished the book and was really bawling, something I don't usually do as sappy stories are usually too trite. But this one got me...Anyone want my copy or should I recycle it?
I give it 3.5 stars. I just wasn't "feeling" this book. While reading a book like this, I usually get involved with the characters and start to care for them, even if I don't relate with them. But that didn't really happen here. I continued to read it since it was for book club and I wanted to find out what happened. It wasn't until almost the end of the book that I liked the book and I did get a teary.
I found this tedious, as it is told in the first person by FOUR first people. Took me a while to sort them out, and mercy, what a mess their lives are! Middle-age angst all over the place. Issues manydeal with - infertility, immaturity, insecurity, unfaithfulness, even cancer - but while their first resort seems to be their friendship, alcohol is definitely always on the menu.This just plodded along for me. Way too wordy. I do not recommend it at all.
For me, this book was just way too long, at more than 500 pages in paperback. I also did not favor the way the narrator switched between the four main characters - the Saving Graces - every chapter. I found it hard to continuously readjust and would have preferred it told from just one character's perspective. All in all, it was a nice book, but not incredible.
I really enjoyed this novel. It reminded me of Sisterhood of the Travelling Pants, but as an adult read. At the beginning, I found it hard to keep track of the women, but obviously it was easier as the novel went on. I loved the 4 women's friendship. A bit predictable, but still a great story.
This was a pretty solid 3.5 stars, but not quite 4.
Amazing finish! A lovely, eloquent writer, Ms. Gaffney is!
Another book about the amazing gift of friendships.
Did not finish, started reading but did not capture me and the book is too long for my liking to pursue when I have many other books I want to read
