https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37328.The_Consumer_Society
tam adıyla tüketim toplumu söylenceleri ve yapıları olarak dilimize ayrıntı yayınları tarafından kazandırılan la societe de consommation; milenyuma ve kapitalizmin geldiği noktaya dair gerçekçi bir bakış sunuyor.kitap dostoyevski’nin şu sözleriyle başlıyor:bütün maddi tatminleri sağlayın ona, öyle ki uyumak, çörek yemek ve dünya tarihini sürdürmeyi dert edinmekten başka yapacak bir şeyi kalmasın: yeryüzünün tüm mallarına boğun ve saç diplerine kadar mutluluğa gömün: bu mutluluğun yüzeyine küçük kabarcıklar çıkacaktır, suyun üzerinde olduğu gibi.
birey, iletişim araçlarıyla bize sunulan mutluluk ile kendi arayışları arasında yiter.
Marx’s explanation for this discrepancy is related to his theory of value – not that gold is ‘rarer’ than bread, which would just mean the problem is one of demand and supply, but rather that more human labour needs to go into retrieving a certain quantity of gold compared to a certain quantity of bread, and it is the quantity of labour contained within the commodity that determines its value.This distinction between use-value and exchange-value is focused on throughout this book.
Page 49All men are equal before need and before the principle of satisfaction, since all mean are equal before the use-value of objects and goods (whereas they are unequal and divided before exchange-value).
کتاب با مرثیه ای تلخ برای آنچه آینده ی "جامعه مصرفی" می خواند به پایان می رسد: "ما در انتظار عصیان های وحشیانه و فروپاشی های ناگهانی ای هستیم که به اندازه مه 1968 غیرقابل پیش بینی و قطعی هستند.
حوادثی که این عشای ربانی سفید را در هم خواهند شکست" گویی تمام کتاب مقدمه ای بود برای ادای این جمله.
کتاب تحلیلی جالب از رمزگان جامعه مصرفی ارائه می دهد.
کتاب سرشار از نکات جالب و مثال های درخور است و مطالب زیادی را در تعداد صفحات محدودش در برگرفته.
به نظرم خوب بود اگر هر کدام از این مطالب را بیشتر بسط می داد.
J'ai malheureusement trouvé ce texte mal écrit et abscon. Au lieu d'éclairer son sujet, l'auteur semble prendre plaisir à l'obscurcir d'épaisses ténèbres en faisant tout à tour référence aux mythes de Barthe (sic), à Freud, à Marx, au structuralisme, à la dernière publicité à la mode, au dernier film qu'il a vu, sans serrer suffisamment sa réflexion. Les anglicismes, barbarismes et répétitions qui jonchent ce kaléidoscope indigeste ont achevé de me remplir d'amertume, car les quelques idées qu'on y trouve récompensent insuffisamment la patience qu'elles épuisent
Sokal puts it quite nicely: des impostures intellectuelles.Though, I wouldn't like to be conceded; there is much in there that makes good sense and that is worth remembering.
But beyond all the jabs and dense prose and cynicism, when you read stuff like:"Happiness has to be measurable; it has to be a 'well-being' in terms of objects and signs.
Happiness as (on the ideology and myth of happiness) total or inner enjoyment --that happiness independent of the signs which could manifest it to others and to those around us, the happiness which has no need of evidence--is therefore excluded from the outset of the customer ideal in which happiness must always signify with 'regard' to visible criteria""You never consume the object in itself (in its use-value); you are always manipulating object (in the broadest sense) as signs which distinguish you either by affiliating you to your own group taken as an ideal reference or by marking you off from your group by reference to a group of higher status."Or things like:"The consumerist man sees to it that all his potentialities , all his customer capacities are mobilized.
Baudrillard, tek bir şeyi asla tek kitabıyla açıklamayan bir adam o kesin... Onu ve felsefesini okumak tüm yazdıklarıyla gerçekleşebilir ancak. Ben kendimce kitaplarını yazıldığı tarih ile sıraya koydum. Bende olanlarını o sıraya göre okumak derdindeyim. Tüketim toplumu kitabı diğer okumalarını yaptıktan sonra sonra tekrar okumam gereken bir kitap benim için bunu aklımın bir köşesine not ederek okudum diyebilirim. Toplumun iktisadi-ekonomik temellerle açıklanır yanlarına çok aşina ve hakim olmamam dolayısı ile bazı kısımları anlamakta zorlandım. Tüketim hakkında konuşurken bile tüketen bir toplum olmanın ötesinde, kaçınılmaz tüketim nesnesi olduğumuz da doğruya doğrudur.
Tüketim olgusunun bir endüstri haline dönüşmesi, büyülenen toplumlar, eksik bilinç ve kendine yabancılaşma üzerine bir başyapıt. Adını lisans eğitimim boyunca sık sık duyup bir türlü okuyamadığım Tüketim Toplumu'nda Baudrillard'ın aynası hiç de iç açıcı şeyler göstermiyor. Nesneden, bilince... Bilinçten, bedene... Bedenden, ruha kadar tüketim kölesi oluşumuzun kitabı bu. İçinde yaşadığı çağa ve öyle ya da böyle dahil olduğu düzene dair bilinçlenmek isteyen herkesin mutlaka okuması gerekli.
Alımlanması her ne kadar zor bir yazar olsa da, Baudrillard postmodern çağı yapı ve söylenleriyle çok iyi okumayı bilen bir yazar.
the general premise of the book is clear: we're surrounded by objects and our relation to them, rather than being surrounded by other humans.
the book then uses this premise to look at the world and basically deconstruct the hidden meaning of our day to day lives.
i also am using videos to explain this book, because i didn't follow everything very carefully.
mainly because he has given his general idea in the first chapter, causing the rest of the book to be an elaboration of this idea.
that being said, his first chapter is superb.
the imagery he uses is gorgeous and very convincing.
El Baudrillard centrado en la sociedad de consumo es el mejor Baudrillard.
In short, it is becoming [become!] its own ‘self-fulfilling prophecy’’(194).An explanatory hint to the ‘flavour’ of consumption is as follows:‘‘Consumption is an order of significations in the ‘panoply’ of objects, a system, or code; of signs, ‘an order of the manipulation of signs’; the manipulation of objects as signs; a communication system (a language); a system of exchange (primitive kinship); a morality, that is a system of ideological values; a social function; a structural organization; a collective phenomenon; the production of differences; a ‘generalization of the combinatorial processes of fashion’; isolating and individualizing; an unconscious constraint on people, both from the sign system and from the socio-economico-political system; and a social logic’’ (Introduction, 15)One can theorize ergo that the terms of defense & resistance against the structural ‘spider’ of consumption are already defined through its own mechanisms (terrorist, authoritarian, dictator; Marxist, libertarian, anarchist), enacted in an inhibitory & sumptuous set of a closed logic-system; such to be tamed within the consumptive language.
Judul : Masyarakat KonsumsiPengarang : Jean BaudrillardPenerbit : Kreasi wacana Orang membeli baanrg bukan untuk di ambil manfaatnya melainkan untuk mode, gengsi, termakna iklan!
Kenyataannya kita hidup pada negara berkembang bukan negara berkecukupan.Buku ini adalah satu karya modern, buku ini memaparkan berbagai hal tentang konsumsi masyarakat, seperti : status kajaiban konsumsi, dampak negativ,logika sosial,teori konsumsi dan memaparkan kehdupan konsumsi masyarakat luar ngeri.
Dalam buku ini juga menjelaskan bahwa kebutuhan adalah buah dari produk dari sistem produksi.Buku ini sangat tepat menjadi bacaan orang-orang dengan pemikiran kritis tentang ekonomi dan menambah pengetahuan pembaca mengenai konsumsi di negara berkembang dan negara maju.
Asil olarak dusunce tarzi itibariyle 5 yildizlik bir eser,sayet anlatim ve ifadenin zor yollardan edinimi, idealarin fazlaca derinlere saplanmasi acisindan dusunduruculugu, hem okuyabilme, hemde kavrayabilme hizinizi azaltiyor ve bu da kisa sureli konsantrasyon ve odaklanma bozukluklarina yol acabiliyor. Genel anlamda toplumsal kavramlar, butunlugu yada anomiler, tuketim ideolojisinin bireycilige olan psikolojik etkileri, modernlik utopyasi altinda yatan duygular, hassasiyet, nuanslar oldukca usta bir sekilde aciklanmis.
Tricky, over-poetical and pretty obscure, still it has some undeniable moments of bright irony and lucid consciusness. It is a primary reference though.
Не цікаво, кинув читати.
Το βιβλίο κυκλοφόρησε το 1970 και τα προϊόντα, οι υπηρεσίας, οι ορολογίες, οι λέξεις γενικότερα που χρησιμοποιεί ο Μποντριγιάρ για να καταδείξει τον μύθο και κατ' επέκταση το λάιφστάιλ της εποχής δεν παρουσιάζουν καμία διαφορά με τη σημερινή εποχή, με εξαίρεση την λογική απουσία αναφορών στο ίντερνετ που ήρθε μια εικοσαετία αργότερα ή στην παγκοσμιοποίηση που επεκτάθηκε ακόμη περισσότερο σαν αποτέλεσμα των, μεταγενέστερων της κυκλοφορίας του παρόντος βιβλίου, κοσμοϊστορικών γεγονότων της ανάδυσης του νεοφιλευθερισμού και της της πτώσης του Σοβιετικού μπλοκ μέσα στις δύο επόμενες δεκαετίες.
Πέραν τούτων, κυριολεκτικά σαν να μην πέρασε μια μέρα!
This is not a read for those who are either not pursuing an academic degree concerning consumer societies or those who have enough of a passion for learning that they can commit to reading through some complex ideas and a very intricate text.The Consumer Society: Myths and Structures produces some excellent ideas surrounding everything from sex, the body, violence and gender to the production of signs, key in discussing this topic on an academic level.
That being said I have come out of reading this book with a much broader knowledge of the consumer society than that I had before, therefore the book was well worth the read.
Dense with just enough pockets of light to enable you to navigate.
I seem to have understood most of it, but in an unsatisfactory way.
He doesn't offer any solutions as such, just a deep analyses of the mechanisms at play, and the consequences of the game.
It's quite illuminating to see, that what we take as modern symptoms of consumerism, such as narcissism, fatigue, depression, anxiety, violence etc, have been prominent from the start, there really is nothing new, the system is an advanced cargo cult, manifesting signs of things that never have any meaning beyond the signs themselves, it consumes it's own myth.
Drugstories-urile sunt o sinteză dintre bogăție și număr virtual, schoping, flirtul cu obiectele, jocurile combinatorii dintre obiecte și spațiu contribuie asupra coabitării într-un cotidian armonios, unde fatalitatea este transpusă în obiectele consumate. Combinația dintre simboluri ajung la categoriile beneficiilor și sunt privite drept avantaje pentru consum, drugstories devin culturalizate artificial, pretinzând să devină orașe întregi unde arta și distracția formează un amestec pentru granițele vieții cotidiene. Omul este eliberat de robia timpului- drugstories lucrează 24/24 7 zile din săptămână. În jurul magazinelor mereu înfloresc semnele sorții, a vieții care sunt atribuite unor inactive ce se schimbă odată cu sezonul. etc.
Kitap 1970'te yayınlanmış olmasına rağmen içinden bugüne dair benzeştirmeler yapmak mümkün. Tüketimi kapsamlı bir şekilde ele aldığı için sabırla okunmalı. Genel olarak tüketimin kültür, sanat ve beden üzerindeki etkilerini konu alıyor. "En güzel tüketim nesnesi: Beden" ve "Sonuç" bölümleri bence kitabın ve yazarın savunduğu tezin en vurucu yerleri olmuş.
In consumer capitalism everything has been functionalized, which means that instead of use, or even exchange value, everything is really standing in for their lack. All we have left is a circle jerk of classed signifiers.
I used this book for my college paper....cool...inspiring....I owe a lot from this book...can you imagine..late Baudrillard spoke of credit card in his work published in 1970...wow...when you read Baudrillard's pieces you have to take sides..go with him or stand against him...nothing in between!!
Baudrillard is not my favorite French philosopher. He's dense and referential and it doesn't seem like he's going anywhere most of the time. But I did get some things out of this one. I'd stick with Derrida.
As one may infer from the title, this book is about consumer society/consumption. He bounds his ideas in then-current theory, his tendency to turn theory upon itself is not yet a major element of his style.This one doesn't have an ugly cover; many of his early books do.
excellent early writings, postmodern critique
Baudrillard has his own explanation with myth and the schizophrenia......
Amazing book. Transforms our worldview.
don't worry, I didn't read the original version, the French version. God forbid. :)It was not an easy book to read at all.
It was difficult to follow. There are circular statements- overlapping ideas maybe because of the translation
