https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/140091.Real_Murders
Boring main character.
(When someone is described as having a face with "character", you know he's not bringing the sexy).
But, still a fun enough book because of the murders.
The murders are all copycats of famous murders of the past.I don't know if my murder radar was out or something, but I actually never suspected the killer in this story.
I like when I'm surprised by murderers.
It's makes it more exciting.I never suspected this guy at all.
My bad.Also, I really like how Charlaine Harris writes small, southern town life.
After reading all the Sookie books, and then starting this series out of curiosity, I've realized that Charlaine Harris needs to quit preaching through her characters.Both female characters, Sookie and Aurora (not sure about the other two), have mentioned more than once about not having a boyfriend and being lonely and envying people who do date, both want babies, neither one feels comfortable sleeping around, both feel they should be more religious than they are, and it gets old really fast.
The murders are interesting enough to keep your attention, I liked how everything pointed to an entirely different person, and I'm curious where the series goes from here, and if Aurora actually becomes interesting.
I like her other two mystery protagonists, Lily Bard and Harper Connelly, but I have to say I like Aurora Teagarden the least.
Aurora is pretty plain and boring, even without her being a librarian.
I found this happened a lot with Lily Bard too so maybe this is something that's normal for a mystery series; I guess you have to give the character a reason for being in the book.
With Harper, it makes sense that she's involved in a murder mystery.
It definitely has it's shortcomings but I see some promising things that could be developed and I'll continue reading this series.
Not a huge cozy fan, but I like Charlaine Harris and it was a decently clever mystery. I had wondered about the murderer(s) but wasn't sure overall until the end.I'll probably pick up the next one eventually. :)
I like reading Harris' Southern Vampire series and I am a librarian so I thought I would give her Aurora Teagarden series a mystery (Aurora is a librarian).
The only librarian thing is that she is a librarian who longs for an exciting life (as much as librarians are stereotyped, this is yet another stereotype) and finds herself in the middle of a spate of murders in a seemingly quiet, small town.I will probably read another eventually just to make sure that Aurora does not pull out a giant can of librarian kick ass...which reminds me, my giant can of librarian kick ass is almost empty...
DNF-Disappointed. Within the first two chapters there were sexual innuendos and mentions of an unmarried couple having sex often and such along those lines. God's name was also misused. There's a really good reason I don't read secular fiction and even books that were turned into Hallmark movies with a Christian actress aren't even safe to read. Never thought I'd say I enjoyed the movie of a book better than the actual book.
***2017 Summer Lovin’ Reading List*** 3.5 starsA typical Charlaine Harris setting for this mystery series, a small community in the South. As per usual, Harris nails the small town details, the over-entwined lives, the importance of reputation, and the somewhat rigid social roles that people get pigeon-holed into. Not an overwhelmingly wonderful mystery, but enough to keep me reading quickly right to the end and enough to encourage me to put a hold on the second volume at the library. It also h
3.5 starsA typical Charlaine Harris setting for this mystery series, a small community in the South.
Not an overwhelmingly wonderful mystery, but enough to keep me reading quickly right to the end and enough to encourage me to put a hold on the second volume at the library.
Just like Sookie Stackhouse and Lily Bard, Aurora is overshadowed by the women around her that are deemed more attractive or more normal.
Harris seems to enjoy giving these kind of women some power, some male attention, and room to explore what they might actually want from life.
I love her mom and her community, and for once, I'm actually really enjoying the love triangle Aurora is in.
Of course that's purely a personal quirk of my own as a reader, not any criticism of fictional love triangles in general - but I wanted to get that attitude of mine out into the open so that it would be clear just HOW MUCH it says about this love triangle that even I, a love-triangle-hater, actually enjoyed it!)There were parts of this novel that were so creepy and chilling and even downright horrible, they felt all the more shocking against the coziness of the setting and Aurora's funny, wry voice - but it all worked together amazingly well, and I will definitely be hunting down all the rest of the books in this series.
Small town Librarian is a member of a club that examines true crime tales. When somebody murders a member of said club in the fashion of the crime they are examining, members of the club are natural suspects. The librarian starts nosing around to clear her name, and save her life.A little bit more tension than most cozies.
I love Charlaine Harris!
She can write about blood-sucking vampires one minute and then sweet Aurora Teagarden the next.
So Aurora is not your average girl next door, but only because she is a member of The Real Murders Club.
Wait one of the members is murdered count me out and they are all being implicated in some way definitely not my kind of club I enjoy my life and freedom just a bit to much, but needless to say Roe is so relateable and the story line is intriguing enough that you will find yourself sucked into her world.
Sometimes you just need to read a book that gives you goosebumps.
This was one of those books, filled with intrigue, mayhem, and copycat killers this book had me up half of the night last night reading and it was amazing.The MC, Aurora was wonderfully written.
There's still some things we don't know about Aurora and I can't wait to see if the next books reveal them.The murders were wonderfully plotted and they made me get goosebumps at points.
Quick review:Cover: Boring Rating:  R Thumbs Up:  4Overall: An entertaining readCharacters: Well WrittenPlot: Try to stop a killer while datingPage Turner: Yes Series Cont.? Yes Recommend:  YesBook Boyfriend: ArthurSUMMARY (50 words or less)This is another Audible Daily Deal that I picked up. I liked this story well enough to move on to book two to be sorely disappointed.For a full review and yummy pic, see my blog post at:COMING SOON 7/31/15Audio ReviewThérèse Plummer did a good job at narration. I didn’t have a hard trouble following all the different characters.
The action started immediately, but it took me a while to get into the story. This happens to me frequently with the first book of a series. I read mystery series more for the characters than the actual plot, so I seem to spend the first book getting to know the characters. Once that was out of the way, I became more and more interested in the plot. When it took a turn I didn't see coming, it was a breathless read to the end.
I wanted to read this after hearing the Aurora Teagarden books were being made into a series of Hallmark made for TV movies. I figured the series must be fun if Hallmark was basing a whole set of movies on them, and I was right! This book was cozy, funny and well written. I liked the main character, who is a 28 year old librarian who belongs to a "real murder" club. When members of the club start dying in ways that are reminiscent of famous murders, she is thrust into the middle of the mystery. A fun read.
Good start to the series. Review to come.
To describe this in one sentence, I would say: Fast paced story with a smidge of romance.
You know - a kiss here & there, helping out with exploring while investigating a crime, good for conversation while exchanging theories of the murders and motives.Since it was fast paced read (for only one evening for sure,) it felt more like a novella to me and I didn't even have a time to start guessing who were the killer (or killers) = trying (not) to spoil (in my own sort of way), so I can't say it was predictable.
Like many readers, I love reading every book by Charlaine Harris.
If I thought it would make her writing more prolific, I would donate $10 out of each paycheck to Ms. Harris..That said, the Aurora Teagarden series is not the one I'd recommend to first-time readers.
However, it is nice to find a Harris novel I could recommend to Grandma - if Grandma liked murder mysteries.
They range from the very grim Ms. Bard to the mostly cheerful Sookie, but none of them give you the idea life is easy for them.
Similar to Harris' other books, but without any paranormal elements.
The heroine, Aurora, is pretty upbeat & interesting.
She's 28, unmarried & has an odd hobby - she's a member of a club that discusses old murders.
When club members start dying, she recognizes they're reenactments of old crimes & tells the police so.
They don't believe her, so she is forced into figuring out who the killer is herself, but she doesn't jump into it with both feet.
Very believable the way she stumbles around & interacts with others in her small town.It won't ever be my favorite book, but for a relaxing read, it's pretty good.
This is my second book series by Charlaine Harris and first book series that wasn't a YA series or paranormal but a first regular mystery series. I did enjoyed it though along with the twist and turns of the story. I picked this book up when I found out that there was a Hallmark movie about it and thought I would read the book series.
I absolutely love Charlaine Harris and The Sookie Stackhouse Novels, but I must confess I hadn't read any of her other series.
So when I came across this first book in The Aurora Teagarden Mysteries, I knew I had to give it a try.Aurora Teagarden is a twenty-eight-year-old librarian who belongs to a mystery club named Real Murders, which meets monthly to discuss famous real-life murder cases.
Unfortunately, the killing didn't end there and when another murder took place copying another famous murder case, Roe knew she had to get to the bottom of that mystery.I really enjoyed this novel.
Entertaining. Not brilliant but a good way to spend a few hours on a summer evening. I was surprised by the murderer and that is a good thing in a mystery novel.
This fiend must be stopped and Aurora along with others including her delectable new neighbor, Robin Crusoe, determine to help the police with their knowledge gained from their hobby of studying murder.This was a light murder mystery for all its gruesome murder situations.
She likes her life and is happy to work at the library and join with her fellow club members talking murder.It was interesting to see the situation change for Roe as she gains two suitors.
Robin is a famous mystery writer and guest professor at the university while Arthur is a fellow murder club member and police detective.
I expected this book to be so much better than it was.
I think I should've given it 2.5 stars.
She is a member of a club that reviews real murders(hence the title).
Someone in their town is going around and committing murders that they have reviewed.
The killer kills a member of the club, while implicating other members of the club by using something that belonged to the member as a murder weapon.
The identity of the killer was definitely a shocker.
I will try the 2nd book in this series just because I love Harris as an author.
I started this earlier this week but just finished it today.
Already a bad sign.
I thought when I picked this up that it was a mystery novel with a librarian protagonist which was written by someone who's other work I rather enjoyed.
Apparently, that was not enough to avoid a bad egg.
This book was sparely written, in descriptions of the setting as well as development of the characters.
It seemed like a book that was written quickly over a long weekend instead of one carefully crafted.
Not that it was a horrible book, but disappointing.
I picked this up at an opportunity shop. I'm glad I did, it's a fabulous read.Aurora "Roe" Teagarden, librarian and amateur sleuth solves her first mystery. A series of murders based on historical killings.A fun exciting read. Am now hunting down the rest of the series.
While this book isn't her first book, it is her first series, and its horrible for lack of a better word.
They're boring, you never really get a sense that its a person relating events to you.
It's like you're reading the diary of a very scatter-brained and ill-educated person, who really never should have kept a diary to start with.
The crimes discussed in the book, besides obviously the one Aurora discovered, all seem to be from England.
It was basically one disappointment after another and I can't bear the thought of trying to read anymore of this series.
The cast of characters and the mysteries are usually pretty diverse and interesting.
This series by Ms. Harris does fall into that category, but wasn't quite as appealing to me as I would have liked.Aurora "Roe" Teagarden was okay as a main character, albeit a little bit boring and staid for a 28-year old, but she never really did a lot of active sleuthing like Jessica Fletcher does.
Let's just say, you might be pleasantly surprised by the identity of the murderer.This is the first book in the series and I'm hoping Roe develops her sleuthing skills further in the subsequent books.
This book is basically made up entirely of tropes that I just don't like.
The worst were the two love interests who are very territory males (ugh) and the fact that the main female character has complaints and/or dislike of every other female character.Besides that, all of the characters lacked ...
character.
They felt like cardboard-cutouts of boring people.
The mystery was okay, but I just wasn't really invested since the characters were all so flat.(I could also quibble about the way the library is run, but I'm a librarian so I notice these things.
It's not like it's giving libraries/librarians a bad name, so I'll let that slide.)
I really enjoyed the Lily Bard series but it took me awhile to start listening to another of Charlaine Harris's series.
This one is quite a different situation than Lily Bard.
A murder club?!
Reminds me of the murder club in Gillian Flynn's Dark Places.
A murder club is definitely a dark thing.
I was guessing whodunnit the whole book.
I watched the Hallmark movie after reading the book, quite a difference!
And there was a bit of a spoiler in the movie that doesn't happen until the second book!
The movie was okay and I really enjoyed the book.
I enjoyed this book so much more than the Sookie Stackhouse series, primarily because I like reading stories about humans solving mysteries.
Aurora Teagarden is a librarian in Lawrenceton, Georgia.
She is a member of a club real murders where members get together and discuss true murders that happened in the past.
But suspicions fall upon the members when a string of murders starts happening emulating some of the old murders that took place in the past.
And our librarian protagonist is under suspicion as well.
The character of Roe Teagarden is well developed.
And would definitely read more in the series.
