https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12203.Frost
He then passes twenty-seven days as a walking sounding board for the increasingly unhinged rants, confessions and shadow philosophy of the tortured artist - and discovers that Strauch may bear the terminal burden of being mortally ill - while secretly composing letters to his superior detailing the precarious mental state of the doctor's sibling.Using the bitter cold, the frost-flecked air as a prism, Bernhard refracts a rainbow depicting the afflictions of the artist, from a neglected and abusive childhood through to his struggles as a student, and his banal and hated stints of employment, including as a substitute teacher and laborer, that he endured when his potential as a painter was terminated by a fracturing despair that drove him to destroy all of his paintings.
I’m sure imagination is an illness.
And what is more realistic?“How everything has crumbled, how everything has dissolved, how all the reference points have shifted, how all fixity has moved, how nothing exists anymore, how nothing exists, you see, how all the religions and all the irreligions and the protracted absurdities of all forms of worship have turned into nothing, nothing at all, you see, how belief and unbelief no longer exist, how science, modern science, how the stumbling blocks, the millennial courts, have all been thrown out and ushered out and blown out into the air, how all of it is now just so much air… Listen, it’s all air, all concepts are air, all points of reference are air, everything is just air…” And he said: “Frozen air, everything just so much frozen air…”And for those who succumbed to frost there is no hope…“Even dreams die.
In Gedanken erfrierenEin junger Student erhält vom besorgtem Bruder des Kunstmalers Strauch den Auftrag, diesen in der düsteren Ortschaft Weng, wohin er sich zurückgezogen hat, zu besuchen und zu beobachten.
Der Student protokolliert den psychischen Verfall, die "Auflösung" des Kunstmalers tagebuchartig und erstattet dem Bruder Bericht."Weng ist der düsterste Ort, den ich jemals gesehen habe.
Tatsächlich erschreckt mich diese Gegend, noch mehr die Ortschaft, die von ganz kleinen, ausgewachsenen Menschen bevölkert wird, die man ruhig schwachsinnig nennen kann." Alkoholiker, die ganz dem Geschlechtsleben frönen, da sie sonst kein Leben haben."Weng liegt in einer Grube, von riesigen Eisblöcken jahrmillionenlang gegraben.
Okuduğum ilk Thomas Bernhard kitabı. Kendisini çok seveceğimden emindim. Bu nedenle Don dışında birkaç kitabını daha almıştım, yanılmamışım. Aynı zamanda Avusturyalıların ne kadar tehlikeli insanlar olduğunu da tescilledi benim için. Kitap oldukça sarsıcı. Zayıf bünyeler için dehşet verici diyebilirim zira Ressam Strauch'un bazı fikirlerinin insani bir sınırı yok. Savaş sonrası Avusturya'yı, insanları, sefaleti, tüm çıplaklığıyla kan kusturarak anlatmış.
Das ganze Dasein ist ein ewiges Ausprobieren von Aufbahrung und Eingraben.Strauch ergeht sich bis zur Erschöpfung in Welterklärungen, Selbstanklagen, bitterbösen Kommentaren zum Leben der Dorfbewohner, aber auch zu Politik, Religion, Kunst .
Die Wissenschaft von der Natur wird uns eine höhere Klarheit und eine viel grimmigere Kälte sein, als wir uns vorstellen können.Thomas Bernhards Romane sind für mich am Stück ein einziges zusammenhängendes Gesamtkunstwerk.
Und am Ende wird die Sprache rückbezüglich auch noch zum Objekt des Romans, wenn beispielsweise der Famulant sagt: Er schiebt ganz einfach seine Hinfälligkeit in Form von Sätzen in mich hinein.oder: Was ist das für eine Sprache, die Sprache Strauchs?
Another question; is the painter Strauch's rant merely an autobiographical extension of Bernhard's own crippling misery?
Frost's premise is simple enough; a medical student travels to the Austrian countryside on assignment from one of the medical assistants who works for the institute at which he is studying, to observe the habits of the medical assistant Strauch's brother, the painter Strauch.
Strauch is at the end of his life, a seemingly significant theme for a man who wants to include his "last word" in spite of his contempt for humanity.
Imagine if Beckett and Celine tagteamed a rewrite of the Magic Mountain, only the war is over, and the high-class sanatorium on a mountaintop is now a dilapidated inn in a festering valley.
Solo un maglione di lana a -22°C!Ma soprattutto potrete fare delle interminabili passeggiate in compagnia del pittore Strauch, anche in pieno inverno, procedendo nella neve alta fino alle ginocchia, in un gelo che se vi fermate un attimo è la fine.
ma anche con voi, vedrete, sarà un'esperienza unica, il gelo in realtà è tale che non permette neanche di pensare, o forse è vero il contrario, chissà!
Lasciatevi coinvolgere nel delirio paranoico del vecchio pittore, assaporate il carico di odio delle sue elucubrazioni, camminate dapprima timorosi poi sempre più sicuri sulla pericolosa superficie ghiacciata della follia e riconoscetene a poco a poco il fascino!
Dass das Buch trotzdem ganz famos in sein Werk hineinpasst, liegt einerseits an der bereits hier schon bis zum Exzess hin ausgereiften Sprachsicherheit, aber auch daran, dass das Buch eine Brücke zwischen seinen früheren Gedichten und den Romanen (die im Grunde aus einer ganz anderen Welt kommen) bedeutet.Voll ist das Buch aber auch von Widersprüchen und Unstimmigkeiten, die mehr oder weniger ungebremst aus der Gedankenwelt des kranken Malers Strauch (dessen Krankheit wir naturgemäß bis zum Ende nicht erfahren) in die Gedankenwelt des Famulanten, der sein Beobachtungswerk mit viel Akribie und ebensolcher Erfolglosigkeit betreibt, überströmen.
You might also like to imagine him as the last human being on earth (that’s how he likes to perceive himself; no, that’s how he must necessarily see himself, otherwise he couldn’t have kept on existing for such a long time).Frost is a mediation on self-loathing, a monologue within a monologue.
The nameless narrator is observing Strauch, setting out to explore something inexplorable, trying to understand this fantastical abyss-human.
Within the ridiculous there are tragedies, into which one is pushing forward, not being equipped with a light, into a sinister pit.Language-wise this is probably as grand as it gets; I’ve read most of the novel aloud.
Del freddo si dice che entri nelle ossa. Perché una volta entrato, una volta che ci ha conquistato, non è sufficiente un maglione in più a scacciarlo, prende possesso di noi come un virus. Come la follia, parola ambigua quanto mai. Il gelo è contagioso. E su questo libro non mi avventuro a dire oltre.
There was literally nothing easy about reading it, and I have read everything by Thomas Bernhard translated into English except for Extinction which I am going to tackle soon, that is if I heal enough after reading this one.
It doesn't make sense to read the first one almost last, but neither does it make sense that his first book takes forty-three years to get itself translated and published in English.
I guess that makes it a safe book to read.
(Excuse me, but that is one weird word, abdomen.
However, it could very well be a book you would read again.
'Frost' is yet another excrescence of Bernhard's imagination.
Of course he isn't: that is so immediately obvious that the question becomes--as of the first five pages of the book--what kind of imagination the painter possesses.
The book offers no relief, no pleasure of slowly dawning insight (even if that insight is might reveal psychosis, impending suicide, unrelieved pessimism, or bottomless misanthropy).
Reading 'Frost' is like lying in pig slurry, and raising yourself every few minutes to wipe yourself, and then lying back down, then getting up again.
Perhaps the bleakest work I've ever encountered. Reads as though it were carved of solid ice. Pessimistic, unflinching, a torrent of melancholy sentences. A landscape of terminal illness, cut through with rivers of blood. Phenomenal. Some of these images will haunt me forever."Life is the purest, clearest, darkest, most crystalline form of hopelessness . . . There is only one way to go, through the snow and ice into despair; past the adultery of reason."
A Meditation of Frost  1Art has nothing to do. The painter paintsin complete darkness.See. 2Consider the speaker,the reliability of the soul, whetherit exits or not, weatherit exists or not, everythinga matterof inter-dependence. 3It occurred to me, that todaywas my 31st birthday. Not a soulin the world is aware of this fact. And ifthey are, they don’t knowwhere I am. Except my land-lord, not a soulknowswhere I am. 4“. . . as the inside of a cow.”I heard someone say, somehowthat it was snowing s
The painter paintsin complete darkness.See. 2Consider the speaker,the reliability of the soul, whetherit exits or not, weatherit exists or not, everythinga matterof inter-dependence.
He felldown a well, or he didn’t—I can never rememberif it’s drownor drowned…	22Who said the radio doesn’t developscar tissue.
26The past is a painthat long since died, a pieceof winter, a piece of spring, a hunk of ice a boy in Arizona hauls down from the mountain, one he will savein his freezer, pack in a cooler and sharewith his world come show-‘n-tell.
Which doesn’t mean I don’t regretlosing the painter’s hathe gave me just beforehe died.
I mean the heart of things,the big green heart.
Sin ser una mala novela, hay muchos momentos en que me aburrió, sobre todo por la avalancha de reflexiones sin (y con) sentido del pintor Strauch, que a veces rozan el hermetismo.El cuadro que se ofrecía en los jardines de verano de los mesones le permitía a uno ver a los hombres en sus manejos más tontos.
Pensar en una vaso de cerveza conduce a las mayores sobreestimaciones, reflexiones: ¡el mundo es lo que yo soy!
El hombre va siempre sólo hasta donde cree que va el mundo.
Puede decirse que la novela trata sobre la desintegración de una persona, el pintor Strauch.
Erm, I feel a tad awestruck. And a tad traumatized by the tedium of the dialog, which was obviously the point. Welcome to Bernhard?
È dalla canicola che non ci si può difendere in nessun modo e il migliore, la claustrofobica finta frescura con annessi batteri killer, arroventa l’aria di fuori.
E l’uomo della canicola invidia quello del gelo.Dalla follia?
E chi sono io per dare pollice verso a un sì tanto autore, di cui l’unico libro che sono riuscita a leggere – nel senso etimologico del termine: raccogliere – è “Il soccombente”?
Sarebbe come dare una stelletta a me medesima ma, con l’io ipertrofico che mi ritrovo, non riuscire a pigiare il tasto.
În primul rând m-a frapat naturalețea cu care Bernhard descrie peisajele si decorul, și cât de ușor se folosește de cuvinte să picteze exact imagini în care te poți transpune, ca și cum tu, ca cititor, ai fi exact acolo, ascuns în umbră, privind acest du-te, vino al celor doi protagoniști.
Pe parcursul lecturii m-am transpuns în atât de multe stări și spații temporare din propria-mi existență, încât, de multe ori, aveam impresia că citesc o carte ce-mi fusese dedicată numai mie, sau în special mie.
Poate ar fi fost printre singurii care ar fi putut captura esența scriituri lui Bernhard din ”Frig”.
En mi opinión, en este caso, dicha crítica se vería refutada, no ya por la escritura en sí, sino por el arte de la escritura que empieza y acaba con Bernhard, de forma radical, tan radical como la contemplación de la tierra firme y el abismo que nos aguardaría si nos encontráramos al borde mismo de un acantilado.
Con todo, en el libro abundan pensamientos brillantes (los que se pueden desentrañar, claro) y una direccionalidad un tanto más descriptiva que hasta entonces no había leído en el autor austriaco.
One of the most unpleasant books I've ever had the displeasure of reading.
I was looking for something grim and challenging, and this certainly qualifies.
However, the most challenging aspect for this reader was being utterly bored by the lack of narrative momentum.
Perhaps this was not the best way to read this book.)I find the idea of Bernhard intriguing; the capsule descriptions of his books and the reviews are compelling, making me want to read him again; but the actual experience of reading this book was disappointing and dissatisfying.
I gather that's kind of his point about life.
(3,5)
Meh…
It's weird reading a Bernhard book thats basically like a normal book but it's still cool
Our world some days makes TB's lit-world which is arguably messed-up seem comical and that for sure is messed-up.
He and his characters are all down-line's of Beckett's except here the dramatist is on a crack bender that skips, repeats, almost never ends, a drone that does still adduce a state however febrile and deliquescing to-an'-froing.
This book is not his best but it is reflective of what's to come, bring a shovel and some rags some wiping up is offing.
Even more hopeless than Cioran.
Dies war mein erster Bernhard, den ich im Frühling 2005 gelesen habe.
Ich habe mehrere Anläufe gebraucht und das Buch mehrmals an die Wand geworfen (diese Spuren sind an dem Buch auch noch gut sichtbar).
Es war wirklich nicht einfach, sich in die Sprache Bernhards und vor allem in dessen Dichte hineinzufinden.
In jedem Fall hat mir die Lektüre von "Frost" eine Welt eröffnet, in der ich mich nach mehrmaligem Sträuben Zuhause gefühlt habe.
Die Sprache und die Gedanken sind sehr dicht.
In jedem Fall wirkt bereits in diesem frühen Werk der Sprachsog auf den Leser sehr stark.
I had trouble finishing this book - maybe because I like to read in the morning, and I often didn't want to let this book foul my mood for the day.
As good.
Too much, that would mean knowing more than me, wouldn’t be good for it, because that would mean I was sick.
That’s the world: Confined to a head of cattle, confined to roast beef.
A human will never go beyond where he thinks the world will go.
I want to read more Bernhard.
I generally felt like I had a fever the whole time reading it.
I'm not sure what I expected, but it wasn't this: I've read most of Bernhard's later work, and always put this one off. I think I'm glad--this was an amazing book, but I was expecting something easier than Bernhard's usual, not more difficult. The rant form is here in nuce, but broken up, like a later Bernhard book smashed into tesserae and scattered before the reader. Allow me to explain the clear with the obscure: it's much more Wittgenstein or Nietzsche, and less Adorno. And I prefer Adorno in every possible way.
Un colpo mortale e disperato, che esplode in tutte le direzioni e in ogni cosa e dappertutto, sin dentro alle più anguste rientranze dell’uomo.Parole che ci travolgono, ci annientano, di fronte alle quali vorremmo scappare, gridare e invece restiamo lì, immobili, risucchiati e dominati senza riguardo. Prolunghiamo l’ascolto fino all’ultima sillaba, fino all’estremo latrato che frantuma, lacera, spalanca la porta a dolorosi e necessari e inevitabili dubbi sul nostro esistere.
