https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/685643.The_Happy_Hollisters
and yet the Happy Hollister clan are a fully functional family who work, love, and learn together the way families should and would do in an ideal world.
So maybe that is what makes this book and series so wistfully appealing.
It is that we so want it to be true or perhaps we realize if everyone were all we’re called to be, Life and families could actually be this happy.
This is the first Happy Hollister book in the series and the first I have read in a long time.
One is an evening’s read.
Oh how I loved the Happy Hollisters. I read them all. I was around 7 or 8 when I started reading them, and I had quite a crush on Ricky. I guess the fact that I had a crush on a character from a book instead of, say, Ricky Schroder, makes me a gigantic dork. Oh well. What are you going to do?
I love the life-style of the 50s portrayed in these books! It made we long for an old simpler time when sons admired their fathers, children helped their mother willingly with chores, and small towns were safe enough for kids to roam freely....Perhaps that's too idyllic and the past was not like that...but I like to think it was
This is a mystery series put out by the Stratemeyer Syndicate, the same group that wrote mystery books for older kids, like Nancy Drew, The Hardy Boys, Tom Swift, Rover Boys, and etc.
After the cow left, we got down; Dad grabbed the box of picnic supplies and walked ahead of us.
The kid’s parents allow them to turn a baby buggy into a cart so they can have their collie dog pull them around.
Then two of the kids are left to take care of their dad’s general store, and that too is a fiasco.
I first read these books when I was a little girl.
They are aimed at a slightly younger age than Nancy Drew and the Hardy Boys, and they were the series that began my lifetime love of mystery novels.
I believe that they are currently out of my print, but my husband found me a copy of the books for Christmas 2009.
I can't give an honest review separate from the nostalgia factor, but I can say that they are a bit dated.
The family is fun-loving and joyful, and the books make me feel good when I read them and that's good enough.
(How many of my favorite series as a child were actually written by conglomerates? All of them?)This is ooooold. Reminiscent of those Edward-and-Betsy-books old. Feels older than the Russell-and-Nora-books old. Old. Almost nostalgically idyllic, with one bully marring a charming neighborhood and the barest hints of financial trouble. It's almost amazing that you could write a successful series about - well - nothing. Children playing outside. I guess "successful" is relative, though: I have a shelf of these, but they aren't really good.
As a kid I read the entire series through the Happy Hollister's book club, and regularly lost myself in the mystery of the day.
I once asked my Mom if she saw the end of this movie I was watching (I weirdly couldn't remember the movie title, when I saw it, or who played the characters).
Turns out the plot I was describing was a Happy Hollisters plot, and I was enjoying the book so much and it was so vividly playing out in my tiny kiddie brain, I mistook the action in the book for a movie!
I pulled out my phone and googled them and discovered to my amazement that before me on the table was the COMPLETE SET of all 33 titles!!!
Again out of curiosity, I asked if the children’s hardbacks were $1 each, like the adults.
The man said it depended on the size of the book.
I explained I was really asking about a complete set.
I have a friend who has been trying to complete her collection and she said she had seen a single title sell for $175.
This is probably one of the best books I've ever read.Honestly. What other books contain characters that are NEVER down or weirded out by their inability to escape unfortunate events (i.e. having ALL their toys stolen, falling in quicksand, having their house broken into every night, etc)? And what other book contains such realistic storylines that involve children single-handedly capturing a criminal and throwing an animal parade all in the same weekend? Lovely. C:
A friend recommended The Happy Hollisters to me when my children were very young so I gradually accumulated the entire series. My dear husband read them faithfully each night to the girls and everyone (young and old) thoroughly enjoyed them! Good, clean, family read-aloud material. Highly recommend!!
The Happy Hollisters books are wonderful; and there's 33 of them!The Hollisters are such a nice and close-knit family, and they have so much fun together, whether it's playing, working at the family store, ...
There's some good life lessons tucked away in here.Cleanliness: Swell, Jeepers, by George, Cricket, Goodness, Gee, Golly and the like are all used throughout book.
One boy gets mad at a bully and wants to punch him, but thinks better of it.Parent TakeawayThe Hollisters are a nice and close-knit family that have so much fun together, whether it's playing, working at the family store, or solving a mystery together.
Four ⭐⭐⭐⭐ for nostalgia and the joy this series brought me as a child. I grew up on the Happy Hollisters & plowed through all the books when I was in first grade. My brother who had challenges reading, didn't believe I read as fast as I did & would quiz me on the books.😆When I found them on Kindle Unlimited, I thought I'd reread a few. Definitely dated (what I'd expect from a book first published in 1953) & reading them on an e-reader lessens the charm-but still a fun, quick nostalgi
Four ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ for nostalgia and the joy this series brought me as a child. I grew up on the Happy Hollisters & plowed through all the books when I was in first grade. My brother who had challenges reading, didn't believe I read as fast as I did & would quiz me on the books.😆When I found them on Kindle Unlimited, I thought I'd reread a few. Definitely dated (what I'd expect from a book first published in 1953) & reading them on an e-reader lessens the charm-but still a fun, quick nostalgic read.❤️
I LOVED The Happy Hollisters when I was a kid and have read them all! I sold a bunch on eBay for quite a bit of money a few years back, so they're kind of collectible. I tried to get my nieces to read these when they were younger, but they have so much reading in school these days, which I think is good, but it doesn't give them much time for pleasure reading. They even have reading lists for over the summer now.
This series gets checked out a lot from the Logos Library, so I was curious. It's written in the 1950's when kids could still roam all over small town America. It's a fun little mystery - along the lines of Nancy Drew and Hardy Boys for younger kids 2-4th grades. It did remind me a bit of my own childhood when our little town was our playground, and all the people one's neighbors and friends.
I received my first Happy Hollister book many, many Christmases ago. I think I was around eight years old. I distinctly remember falling in love with this series and kept reading them well into my early teens. It is about a large family living during the 1950's that solve mysteries together.
As they work to uncover clues in both cases, the Hollister children also get to know their neighbors: Tinker, who takes a job working for their father, Ann and Jeff, who welcome them with open arms, and Joey Brill, who antagonizes the family with his cruelty and occasional violence and generally wreaks havoc everywhere he goes.This vintage mystery is similar in both tone and content to The Boxcar Children and Bobbsey Twins books.
My four-year-old loves to become indignant on behalf of the Happy Hollisters whenever Joey Brill comes on the scene, and she worries each time one of the Hollisters ends a chapter in an uncertain or dangerous situation.I originally started to read this book because it was free for Kindle one day and I was curious.
Enter a simpler and happier time with Jerry West’s classic book “The Happy Hollisters,”the first installation in the eponymous series.
First published in 1953, the quaint story features the charming Hollisters, a traditional family comprised of five children—Pete, Pam, Holly, Rick, and Sue—their parents, and their faithful collie, Zip. The premise of the narrative is a simple, rather mundane mystery.
Furthermore, rumors circulate about a possible treasure hidden somewhere in the house, and it is up to the Hollister children to puzzle out the mystery.“The Happy Hollisters” presents the idyllic white-picket-fence family characteristic of the 1950s.
Until my blog entry on the Statemeyer Syndicate and an e-mail from one of the descendents of the author.If I had first discovered these books as a kid, they would have been 4 or 5 stars.
The kids are smart and given the freedom and opportunity to do a few things on their own.
What is up with that kid?There are some wonderful scenes--an animal parade!
And a great old house, complete with secret passageways.
But there's just enough period details to give these books their place in the 1950s.
And plenty of charm for me to pass these on to little ones that like old-fashioned books.
My eight year old was enthralled with this book. She could not wait for the next chapter to be read and begged for "just a little more" each night. The chapters end with cliff-hangers and I would have to read just a page or two more to satisfy here. The mild suspense wasdelightful to her. The picture of a happy family is ver encouraging and we learned a lot about how to treat our siblings from this book.We're searching the library for the next in the series!
I read all of these and received an award from the school librarian for my commitment to reading even though they were cheesy and formulaic which was just what a grade school reader looks for in a book. The same man chastised my sister for not expanding her reading because she was reading too many of the Little House books.
Every one of the Happy Hollister books was an adventure and joy to behold! Of course, I read them back when I was 6-8 years of age, so the fact that I can remember them after forty plus years should encourage all the oldsters to recommend these books to their young reading aficionados! :)
I've read actually all of these, but I just put one on the list. These are wonderful children's books that were a mainstay in my life.
I loved these books when I was growing up. My brother introduced the series to me.
This was one of my favorite series as a kid.
Cute. Sort of a Nancy-Drew-sensibility for the younger set.
My mother subscribed to this series for me when I was a kid. I have about 30 of them somewhere in my mother's attic. I loved them! Brings back memories...
I read this title and one other book in the series. My sister and brothers read them avidly. For some reason, the name Joey Brill sticks in my head. He was the troublemaker. Maybe his name was used as a warning in our family. I should read one of these books again so I can refresh my memory.
Read this to my son, 8 years old, he loved it! Great characters, the family is kind and helpful to each other, and the kids handle situations very well (dealing with a neighborhood bully), a fun mystery read.
Another series of books I devoured all of the series as a child and loved. Looking forward to sharing these books with my grandchildren one day!!
Fast readFaat easy read. Nice to see how times have sure changed since the time this book was written. Same kids can't live like that anymore
