https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42158.P_S_Your_Cat_Is_Dead
I have no idea what words you just said.Kyle: I – you know – I mean, it seems like you want us to laugh at just how terrible Jimmy has it.
I mean, the whole buildup of the first third of the book is just the continuing “how screwed can this guy possibly get?”James: Like he says, “I don’t believe it.”Kyle: Right, but everything that happened to him is actually pretty believeable – in fact, you might argue that with the background Jimmy gives us about where he comes from and what he does, and the type of person he is, it was pretty much bound to happen, though usually probably not all at once.
This is definitely a little known gem.
It is written by the gentleman who co-wrote A Chorus Line, so it is probably popular with fans of that musical.
He certainly made a fan 'outta me.
P.S. Your Cat is Dead follows the sad life of James (Jimmy) Zoole; a man who is so down on his luck, that it's laughable.
The last straw is when he is robbed- twice.
Then almost robbed again.
He loses his shit- and actually learns some valuable life lessons.
This is one I definitely plan to re-visit again and again.
I identified with the main character's problem of every single little goddamn thing going wrong.
And the way things go in this book...?
To say exactly why would spoil the ending but I think I actually identified with it even more this time around.Even taking it into consideration that I might like this book more than the average person because of personal reasons, I still really recommend it.
There are only seven or eight, total, who show up on the page but I guarantee at least two of them will crack you up because you know someone exactly like that.
This book reminds me of those countless direct-to-video movies that have been coming out since the 80’s that nobody’s ever heard of, featuring one or two famous actors and taking place in some dream-like new york city loft apartment and featuring an array of comical coincidences and other forms of mundane weirdness.
Movies like Frauds, the Paint Job, and More Dogs Than Bones, to name a forgotten few.
But I wanted to read it because of 1) the name and 2) because it was about a depressing New Year’s Eve, which is what I am experiencing right now.Jeez what a kinky book.
Too dated for me to enjoy. This was probably funny back in the day, now the dialogue is just unbearably mannered and really pretty twee. All the characters bicker like small children, in absurdly unconvincing speech littered with long-dead slang and italics. The reading experience was basically like standing at a party you didn't want to attend while someone on cocaine shouts at you. I'm really glad the seventies are over.
Mildly amusing but painfully dated.
In fact, if I were ever given the chance to direct the play version, I'd make my Jimmy and Vito read the book as part of their character research.
And near the end of the book, Vito quotes his lover again, "You better find out what you want in life, because that's what you're going to get!"The novel also has a different ending than the play, and while they're both a bit contrived, I like the play version more - it makes more story sense to me, and didn't have me saying, "Really?
I so want to give this book 4.5 stars but alas - the Goodreads gods won't let me, so a review will have to suffice.
The dialogue in this book is witty and hilarious (and just improbable enough to feel real), which is probably half the reason it translated so well to a stage play (the other half of the reason being, of course, that Kirkwood is a theatre man).
And to top it all off, the story is so ludicrous and so wonderful that I genuinely never wanted to stop reading.
How do people get it in their heads that the people around them would like nothing more then to listen to their problems? As if the greatest form of entertainment is listening to someone else rant about all of the horrible things that they have gone through and are going through. Maybe it makes them feel better to bring someone else down with them, but i find it very inconsiderate.
I didn't understand any of this book! It was a really weird read about a guy who keeps getting robbed and all his family are dead. It wasn't terrible righting as such, for example, if I understood it I would have rated it much higher, but sadly that was not the case.
One of the original black comedies. This book is bizarre, but very funny. I love the dark sense of humor and Kirkwood nails it to a T. By the end of the book, you find yourself wondering who the crazy one is. I think this book certainly set the bar high for those who want to venture into the realm of un-PC comedy writing. Anyone who enjoys an eccentric read should check out this book. It is a classic that will never go out of style.
LOVE this book. It was clever, funny, original and crazy but almost believable idea -- just absurd enough to be a riot to read. I hope it's a cult classic; I have a feeling it is. The yellow towel, hugglebunnyburgers, youse, Senegalese Thunderfuck -- love it. I read it in two days -- warp speed compared to my usual pace. I will no doubt read any more Kirkwood that comes my way.
A twisted story of rotten luck turns into a beautiful story of friendship with each page more outrageous than the last. I found it quite fun and unique with characters whose originality is such an asset that their self-centeredness actually works in the novel's favor.
P.S. Your Cat Is Dead is about and told by Jimmy Zoole, a floundering New York actor who experiences a downward spiral of unfortunate events when he is robbed (again) by Vito, a bisexual burglar.
The book follows a very ‘scene-like’ organization that helps break up the subject matter, but the jolts from third-person narration to pure dialogue are distracting and annoying.
Fortunately, Kirkwood does allow his protagonist to accept his lot in the end.One thing that struck me was how well the language and subject matter of the book had survived four decades.
So I didn't expect much but of course it had a cat in the title and I was clean out of reading material, so I picked it up.
One thing is for sure whoever, ordered that book for the store hadn't even bothered to read the story outline because this was one gay cat of a book.
And of course gay in 198ties Indonesia was tabu (unless it was on the beach in Bali and he was giving you a massage but that is another story).
Actually, this was the first book ever that I picked up from a 'mainstream' bookstore or shelf and that was openly, unashamedly, funnily gay.
Oh I loved this book when I was a kid. Definitely one I'd like to re-read. Single guy comes home and faces a robber. I think in the course of the evening the thief, who ends up tied up and half-naked, tells him (via overhearing his answering machine) his girlfriend has dumped him and his cat is dead.Seriously fun read.
Ahaha, this book was such a laugh! The happenings in this story were so positively absurd that you couldn't not enjoy! I absolutely loved the characters, and how their intentions were delivered, especially Vito!
My favorite book, ever. Never fails to make me smile. Everyone ought to read this book. An amazing tale of the most unlikely friendship.
It's a relatively short book, so that might seem strange, but there was one moment where Jimmy and his victim, a tied-up man who attempted to burglarize Jimmy's apartment, worked together and created what seemed to be a bond...but when the moment was over, it went right back to what it was before, with the burglar begging and Jimmy threatening.
That felt very off to me.
If that moment is going to occur, it should occur much later in the book.
Otherwise, it felt like we just went backwards instead of forward.Other than that...this is fun.
This was not required reading in high school but it was suggested reading even though many parents objected to this book being on the list of Sumerix suggested reading.
The fact that the author was one of the people who worked on the Broadway hit "a chorus line " only adds to three solid urban city feel to this novel.
In fact page by page I don't think I've ever read a book that was more gritty and truthful about the human condition then what I read in this book I've not read any other book that even came close talking about such things as Kirkwood covers in this novel .
A black comedy that, it seems to me, is very much of it's times. We're talking that early 1970's anti-establishment, hipness* that informed M*A*S*H and so much else that was going on at the time. I was just a tot in short-pants myself, but when I read this about a dozen years after it was first published all the childhood memories of the Nixon administration, and yippies, and sock-it-to-me-baby, and...wait, where was I? Oh, yeah. This is a funny and touching book.* footnote: "Hip" in 1972 meant something quite different from the scene "Hipsters" here in 2017 are into.
I want to see this play on Broadway and I want John Mulaney to star in it. The story is wacky and fun and totally ridiculous; I loved every minute of it. If I have one complaint, it's only that the language often felt very 60's rather than 80's to me, but given that I wasn't born until 89, what do I know?
I came across this book quite accidentally and loved it. Its hilariously dark humor kept me turning pages to find out the next crazy part of the story. Such a great read!
Very funny and great author whose others books are good as well .
An amusing artifact of the sexual revolurion pre-AIDSI can see why its depiction of sexual fluidity caused such a stir 45 years ago, but it seems pretty quaint tday.
Hilarious!
It definitely didn't go the way I thought it would. A lot of the dialogue dates itself to the 70's....I could see an update being quite funny though.
Mostly entertaining. Perhaps a bit darker than I need at the moment.
I added this book to my shelves years ago when a friend gave a review of it here on Goodreads.
Recently, I joined paperback swap and I thought to myself that I should add books to my wishlist that have been on my TBR the longest.
(hide spoiler)]To be honest, it seems like the kind of novel someone would write for NaNoWriMo -- totally random, ridiculous, whatever pops into the author's head at that moment gets written down.
But of course, NaNoWriMo didn't exist when this book was written.
Doesn't mean the author didn't write it that way anyway.It was an amusing book, but not spectacular.
I don't, I don't believe it.Whatever you might expect before you open this book, that's not what it is.Jimmy Zoole is thirty-eight (thirty-two according to the sheet put out by his agent), has been an actor for twenty years, but he still has to be asked what it is he does, which means he has not got it made.
Oh, and his beloved cat isn't feeling too well.
Add 'em up!You're in the presence of one of the most extraordinary pieces of literature ever penned, and here's why.
This isn't a book you're likely to forget very soon.
