https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/342103.Thirteen_Days
Yet, for those thirteen days in October, the world stood waiting.At only one hundred pages in length, Senator Kennedy's account of the Cuban Missile Crisis packs a punch as he details each council meeting, each step, and each private meeting with the President in quick snapshots.
Thankfully, this crisis did not amount to an all-out global armed conflict.Today's world leaders live in a different political climate than the one from fifty five years ago.
It was eye opening to revisit Thirteen Days: A Memoir of the Cuban Missile Crisis and witness how a global conflict was defused by talking out steps to de-arm potential conflict zones as well as by letter writing.
I was in Kindergarten in October of 1962 and have vague memories of drills where we had to get under our desks, but my only real memories of President Kennedy are of his funeral the following year.
Robert Kennedy details how the situation came to light, what was done, communications with the Soviet Union and other countries, and how the decision-making process worked.
One, President Kennedy brought together a group of people that had different approaches and opinions of how the situation should be handled.
The second thing that impressed me was his concern for allowing Khrushchev to get out of the situation without humiliation.
Many members of my generation do not, perhaps, understand the gravity of the situation, and how a 45 year old president was able to calmly deliberate on the facts, assemble an Executive Committee full of experience, ability and deliberative dissent, and make a decision that protected the world from nuclear holocaust.While protecting the American public, both Kennedy's remained ultra-sensitive to the impact of United States Military actions on the rest of the world, including Berlin, Turkey and Italy, to name a few potential Soviet targets.
This book was astonishing in its revelations about the inside discussions, arguments and second thoughts by a disparate group of advisors set up by President Kennedy when he suddenly learned that nuclear missiles were being set up in Cuba.
The author, his brother and Attorney General had an inside seat at the table.
This book is worth reading for any student of politics or history, or anyone who lived through those frightening days.
Unlike some recent presidents, Kennedy cared what his opponent Khruschev thought, and ensured that he could back down without being publicly humiliated.This is a quick read, and a worthwhile one.
RFK takes you behind closed doors...and you will be shocked how very close this situation almost turned into WW III.
Lots of gems here: the candid letter Khrushchev sends Kennedy without consulting his advisors, how JFK swims before a meeting to decide whether to take military action or precede with a quarantine, how Bobby Kennedy takes his girls to a horse show while waiting for the Soviets to response to a critical letter, the chapter titles that echo the opening lines of each chapter - like poems! More politicians should write chronicles of world events like this.
It's an insider view on the Cuban Missile Crisis, and the edition I have (from 1999) offers what you'd call "very good bonus material" if this was a DVD (there's a recent-ish forword by Arthur Schlesinger jr.
Basically, this book is designed to be your one-stop-starting point for all things Cuban Missile Crisis).And I haven't even touched the primary text yet!
[the General was arguing for a military strike on Russia, and when JFK asked him what Russia's answer on such a strike would be, he said "none".
Either way, this crisis and book are both a good lesson in diplomacy, a quick and worthwile read.
"I believe our deliberations proved conclusively how important it is that the President have the recommendations and opinions of more than one individual, of more than one department, and of more than one point of view...
Frequently I saw advisers adapt their opinions to what they believed President Kennedy and, later, President Johnson wished to hear."It was a situation that could have easily been made a lot worse and could have had us looking at a much different world today, had things gone awry.
I love the idea of this book - a very short memoir about a specific very frightening time written by someone who was there. Its a snapshot into 13 very scary days of American history. It was very exciting and educational. I particularly enjoyed the forward & afterward, which were written by historians and gave good context to RFK's account. It was also great that they included transcripts of speeches and letters written by JFK and Krushchev. This book made me so immensely relieved that I do not want to be a politician.
I love RFK's memoir of the Cuban Missile Crisis--a raw, emotional retelling of what occurred in those thirteen days. Used originally as pure research, I reread this book a few times after my theses (used this twice for different papers, one a full thesis, the other a grad school final). RFK gives an excellent account of what was occurring behind the scenes and how various parties felt during the crisis. An excellent, quick, easy read.
Nuclear weapons are so destructive and ballistic missiles are so swift, that any substantially increased possibility of their use or any sudden change in their deployment may well be regarded as a definite threat to peace."The Crisis Itself	* Castro did not want nukes and said that any deployment should be made publicly instead of secretly as if they had something to hide	* In contrast to the idea that the Kennedy's were obsessed with Castro, they did not use this seemingly Heaven-sent opportunity to get him out	* Historical influences		* Deterrent or Defense taught JFK to be patient and to give the other side many chances to back down		* Guns of August: restrict military to avoid stumbling into war			* Stupidity, idiosyncrisies, misunderstandings, inferiority complex, grandeur complex, security, pride, face		* Bay of Pigs: the military professionals may not know what they are talking about	* Almost everyone who first saw the pictures were unable to discern much of anything	* Crisis came after repeated assurances that USSR would not do exactly what they did.
The book was written shortly before RFK's assassination and published the next year with an afterword included from two men who assessed the crisis and placed it in a historical perspective given wars before and conflicts following up through to the Vietnam War. The book ends with addresses and letters from President Kennedy and Premier Khrushchev during those three weeks which if nothing else made me wonder about how this crisis did finally lead to detente and SALT talks eventually making the world a safer place and one less likely to go to the brink as it had done during those frightful days in October of 62.
He never judged anyone's opinions, but simply stated the importance of having all of those people involved in the decision-making process.
He stated simply the gravity of the situation and, in a straightforward manner that did not (even slightly) smell of overdramatization, noted that they were facing destruction of mankind as we know it.I found this book to be an easy read (text-wise), but a heavy read (tension-wise).
Even upon reflection, RFK indicated his full understanding of options, alternatives, and alternate realities if another route had been selected.
I'll admit, the movie "Thirteen Days" has been a favorite of mine for a long time, and a big reason why I picked up this book, was to see just how historically accurate the film really was.
If you've seen the film adaptation (or even, you know, LIVED through the Cuban Missile Crisis), then you know what happens in the book.
I can't help but wonder how a situation like that would be handled today (the thought actually scares me)...If you want to feel good about politics and have a renewed sense in the potential capabilities of politicians, then read this book.

… Nuclear War would have begun on the beaches of Cuba and might have ended in a global holocaust  My friend gave me a stack of books because he was cleaning up his library, this book was included in the stack.
At first glance I thought there would be nothing in here that would interest me, however, after reading this harrowing account of what when on during the Cuban Missile Crisis, I couldn't have been more wrong.
I think this book gives a glaring account at how fast these missiles can have global destruction.
This super short account has a couple incredible bites of leadership by former president Kennedy.
I had no idea how close the world came to actual nuclear war during the Cuban Missile Crisis.
I really enjoyed the snippets of Kennedy's actual words in this book.
It shows incredible leadership how he handled the dissenting opinions on how to handle _nuclear war_ from different members of the military, media, and his own diplomatic advisors.
It's also incredibly frightening, because literally JFK was the one and only person who prevented World War 3 with personality traits and leadership qualities that aren't currently present in the White House.
2) Do not rush to judgment - Robert Kennedy was surprised that despite the intelligence and experience of the group discussing the crisis their views changed over time (some several times).3) Know your customers - John F Kennedy instinctively felt that US voters would not accept anything but a strong government response to the Cuba situation (note - no focus group needed.
Robert Kennedy also pointed out the value of diversity of opinion when dealing with complex problems and having people brave enough to challenge the majority opinion.5) With difficult decisions there is unlikely to be consensus or a right answer.
The Cuban Missile Crisis had the world on the brink of nuclear devastation, with tensions reaching an all time high upon the United States learning of the Soviet Unions placement of ballistic missiles in Cuba.
I can only hope that if the world were to encounter another such event as this, our leaders will have the required temperament to not further escalate and handle in such a way as President Kennedy has.I highly recommend this particular account for anyone interested in a behind the scenes look of the handling of the crisis, or for anyone who would like to witness a true demonstration of leadership.
The installation of ballistic missiles in Cuba represented an existential threat to America.It was the beginning of the Cuban crisis – a confrontation between the two giant atomic nations, the United States and the U.S.S.R which “brought the world to the abyss of nuclear destruction and the end of mankind.”Thirteen days is Robert F.
13 dates during which the world held its breath.On October 28, 1962, Khrushchev agreed to turn his ships carrying more arms back and to remove the missiles already stationed on the island.
Kennedy's book on the Cuban Missile Crisis describes the actions at the highest levels of the American government during October of 1962.
Reading Thirteen Days, one asks oneself repeatedly how the current President--or any since Kennedy--would handle a similar situation.
For me, the most poignant passage in the book was when Robert Kennedy described the weight of those days for the men making the decisions in the U.S. government:
President Kennedy was determined to have the Soviet missiles removed peaceably and set out to do so by creating a group of advisors called Ex Comm.
And during these days on the brink of nuclear war these were some key factors: some on the Ex Comm team advocated invading Cuba, some members switched positions from Hawk to Dove in a single meeting, President Kennedy maintained his regular schedule and the Ex Comm team met without the knowledge of anyone, a secret meeting between Robert Kennedy and Dobrynin negotiated a trade of U.
Reading this book illustrated the true ability of Kennedy as a thoughtful leader, a keen student of history who was able to apply the lessons of the past to a modern crisis.
This short (a little over one-hundred pages) book is Robert Kennedy's telling of the Cuban Missle Crisis.
What Robert is doing is giving a sequential presentation of when his brother--that's President John Kennedy for those of you who are too young to know--came to know that the missiles were heading to Cuban, the meetings held and who attended them, and the decisions made and the thinking at that moment.
If you are going to investigate decision processes and a frighting event of the Cold War, this book cannot be skipped.
Kennedy during this particular time, and the great amount of thought put into the process of avoiding a nuclear armageddon.I find, that 52 years after this crisis, people in America, in Russia, and around the world undermine the crucial days in October 1962 that may have led to their nonexistence today.
He tells us of how JFK did with all his best to avoid a military confrontation, and how the negotiations were done with the Soviets.I think this book is able to give us time for personal reflection, in which we are able to appreciate the life we have today, and to encourage us to protect the future of human life and the earth from massive destruction.
I enjoyed this insider's recollection of the 1962 Cuban Missile Crisis as largely told from RFK with a length afterword by political scientists Richard E.
Neustadt and Graham T.
Allison.
RFK was assassinated before his manuscript was complete and, to be sure, he could not have been completely forthcoming in 1968.
Still, it is riveting tale of how close we came to nuclear war.
It is that discursive, even poetic, and at times contradictory set of Russian letters that makes me think there is a real story to be told of what was going on in the Kremlin.
Robert Kennedy has a great writing style for narrative that he's working with.
The book was a very fast read, I actually got through it in a single day across two sittings.
Part of what helped is how fluidly Kennedy writes, it really lends itself to effortless reading.
That fast reading pace manages to perfectly capture the chaotic pace of events that were transpiring.
The only small exception was that there is an obvious level of little brother looking up to big brother in Robert Kennedy's writing, but that's a level of bias I don't think a person can remove themselves from so I have to forgive it.
It's an great read, and essential for anyone interested in contemporary American politics.
Obviously offers insights only someone as close to the President and the situation could make, but these insights are layered and revealing beyond the scope of the CMC.
More than once I thought 'what kind of President would RFK have made?' reading his direct and sensitive recounting of the actions taken those thirteen days.
I knew about the CMC but as an "idea." Now I understand so much more of the CMC at its heart."I thought, as I listened, of the many times that I had heard the military take positions which, if wrong, had the advantage that no one would be around at the end to know."And, how sobering in its starkness is this simple line, wedged into his thesis and narrative: "Frequently I saw advisers adapt their opinions to what they believed President Kennedy and, later, President Johnson wished to hear."
Thirteen Days: A Memoir of the Cuban Missile Crisis is a short but intense read.
Kennedy’s firsthand account of the Cuban Missile Crisis explores the correspondence and negotiations with Nikita Khrushchev, the internal dealings of President Kennedy and the members of the Ex Comm (including Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara and Secretary of State Dean Rusk), the interactions and dealings with international bodies such as NATO and the United Nations, and just how close we were to the brink of nuclear warfare.
The memoir explores the reasons John F.
Miles off the U.S. coastline.The book is an unfinished narrative by the late Robert F Kennedy, the brother of President John.
As Attorney General, as well as brother and confidant to the President, he tells the story of what went on behind closed doors.
In fact, I started to read it again this morning, went out with my family for Father's Day, and return to the house to finish it the same day.If you enjoy history, a good example of negotiation, or even an exciting story, this book reads like a novel even though it is real history.
Recommended by an acquaintance who was interested in books on organizational theory -- who gets to be in the room, and how that shapes decision making.This is a spare, surprisingly direct memoir that chronicles the Cuban Missile Crisis and the decisions that were taken in the White House as the situation unfolded.
Much of what RFK talks about was new to me, but perhaps the most interesting part was how he described and portrayed his brother.
He creates space for his team to debate without his presence, cuts across structure to compose a group of the right advisors, and draws richly from history (The Guns of August is repeatedly referenced).Recommended.
