https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/233292.I_Rigoberta_Mench_
In the case of this testimony, Elizabeth Burgos-Debray recorded a series of interviews with Rigoberta while R.M. was in France seeking international solidarity and material help for her people who were being brutalized by Guatemala's government.
Guatemala's government held strict controls over their press, therefore the only way to build international solidarity and to gain aid for her country, Menchu had to go into self-imposed exile and tell her story.This is a literary work, not a juridical document, and it should be treated as such.
Her baby brother was strapped to his mother's back as she worked on a finca (plantation).
I'll give you a hint: Rigoberta Menchú ain't nothin' to fuck with.What happens is that this sad teenager telling the story, around halfway through the book she's like, "So we decided to fight." All of a sudden she's describing how they built pit traps for soldiers.
She - Rigoberta Menchú specifically - travels to other mountain communities, to teach them how to train their dogs to attack soldiers.
Rigoberta Menchú ain't nothin' to fuck with and neither is this book.
This book is a memoir of Rigoberta Menchu's childhood and later years in Guatemala as an Indian woman.
After reading this book, I found out that she had fabricated many important details in the story.
Rigoberta learned to speak spanish at school, and not later on in her life as she claims.
However, the fact that Rigoberta lied about her experiences is not the only reason that I gave this book one star.
On a final note, Rigoberta won the Nobel Prize for this book.
I had never heard of any genocide in Guatemala prior to reading this book.
After talking to people here in Guatemala, who say despite any inaccuracies (lies critics say) and despite her subsequent political career which is also somewhat controversial here - her book really brought world attention to the Mayan cause and is an incredibly important book to read, I bought it.
If horror movies are fiction, how can this crap of a book be, where Rigoberta remembered every detail of the tortures her family members suffered without actually witnessing them.
This book was also contradicted by a journalist and Rigoberta admitted some parts were lies and agreed to change it.
The moment she even admitted this made me sick as not only did she dishonor her family members so harshly, but the $19.95 I spent on this book could've bought me some pretty damn delicious sandwiches.There was absolutely NOTHING to learn from this book after you know it was a bunch of lies.
I know all about the controversy - did she write the book?
The point is that whether or not all of these things happened in particular to this one woman, Rigoberta Menchu, but whether or not they happened to not only her but women that she knew.
I believe that this is a collection of events that happened all around her - and having lived in Guatemala for a short period and seen the reconstruction efforts of the Mayan people after the war that was waged on them during the 80's with Jose Effrain Rios Monte, I believe them all to be true.
Just picked it up again from the bathroom reading pile in the house in Vancouver where I'm renting a room for the year (my new roomie is really active in native radical politics).
I hadn't given much thought to the book since I heard the news that Menchu fictionalized certain parts of it, wanted to see if I still found it powerful.
Not so much for the politics, which even when I read it the first time seemed propagandistic in places, but for the evocativeness of indio life in the mountains.
This book recounts the life of a remarkable young peasant woman who endeavoured through exteme hardships, to make a political commitment to bring change to the lives of the Guatemalan people. Her father, an activist, her hard working mother and a young brother were all tortured & murdered by the military. The descriptions of injustices suffered leave the reader forever scarred.Rigoberta learned Spanish so she would be able to tell her story. (one apparently common to most of the 23 Indian communities of Guatemala.)
This book is about an Indian women living in Guatemala. This book was ridiculously sad and later I learned that some of the events that took place didn't happen and that she over exaggerated which made me feel so betrayed because she's a liar and I don't like that. This book is an autobiography about her life and the hardships she had to overcome.
Gradually, as Ladino landowners employ the army to steal the land farmed by the Maya, and force them to pick coffee and cotton along the Pacific coast of Guatemala, Rigoberta and her family become politicized.She originally works with CUC (Comité de Unidad Campesina) and eventually aligns herself with more militant factions, especially one named after her father, Vicente, who was murdered by the army.
Her mother and one of her brothers were kidnapped by the Army and tortured to death.This book was originally dictated to a Venezuelan writer named Elisabeth Burgos-Debray.
So, I wanted to read her story.This was written in 1982 (give or take a year) during the Guatemala's Civil War. This is her story about living and working in the antiplano (highlands) of Guatemala.
No wonder she has a hatred for the ladinos, and especially the army.There were sections of her story that I found disturbing, particularly the torture descriptions.
There is no violence in the Indian community." She blames the ladinos, especially the Spanish conquistadors for all the killing and violence.
True, there is discrimination and senseless killing by the ladinos towards the Indians.
The book written by Rigoberta Menchu tells the world of the cruelty that went in Guatemala as the "Silent Holocaust", a genocide upon the Indians in Guatemala.
The conflict all start off when the new president took land from the rich to give to the poor as a civil rights movement, but a US Fruit company disliked the idea and took the US gov.
This linguistic barrier suppresses each of the peasant communities from joining together.
This makes people think differently and act differently and this is what separates everyone into different groups and divisions.
Menchu [who of course won the Nobel peace prize in 1992:] does a good job of showing in detail how the exploitation can take place - with collusion from the gov't, the police, and the army - and partly because most Indians receive no formal schooling and therefore don't speak Spanish and are not literate.It also makes you sick how attempts to organize unions and protest for better working conditions and so on are so brutally repressed.
This book is about Rigoberta, her family and her community.
They are Indians that lives high up in a mountain with no fertile lands.
Oneday the landowners decided to get back their lands because the Indians started to have crops.
Rigoberta and her community thought of traps that will prevent the people from coming into their lands.
During this period, a lot of people stuffer from torture and death, including Rigoberta's mom, dad and brothers because they were part of the community.As this continues, the government found out that Rigoberta was a leader of this, so she was chase after by the soldiers...
This is the auto biography of an Indian woman who won the Nobel Peace prize in 1992. It tells about her life of severe poverty and harassment, killing and torture, of the Indian people by factions of the Guatemalan government that was engaged in civil war. She devoted her life to resistance and support for her people. She dictated the book to get it into print and get the message out to the world. Tragic but interesting and important message.
If I could give a book a -, I would. It was most frustrating to read this book for a class knowing that the horror written about was found to be a lie. Yuk! Plus, she won such an honor for a book that was untrue about her life. Pathetic!
I read this in Spanish for Spanish class. I may have been unduly hostile towards it because I knew ahead of time that it was not actually Menchu's autobiography.
Popoli che fanno della tradizione orale la loro unica fonte di storia, Rigoberta "appartiene a una cultura in cui l'arte del raccontare, così come l'esercizio della memoria, sono alla base di una millenaria tradizione[..] che ha consentito ad alcune popolazioni indigene [..] di sopravvivere al silenzio e dare origine a una storia fondata sulla memoria ancestrale." Libro controverso, in seguito vennero confutati da parte di un antropologo molti degli avvenimenti della vita di Rigoberta e non ritenuti veritieri, ma l'opinione pubblica si spaccò a riguardo, essendo stato egli "della controparte",  amico di uno dei dittatori che si susseguirono nel paese nonché negazionista dei genocidi.
Io mi sono permessa di leggerlo oltre le righe, non come la voce di una sola donna, ma come la coralità di tante minoranze, tralasciando poi che gli avvenimenti narrati siano accaduti a lei o ad altri.
Rigoberta begins with explanations of her Quiché culture and her family dynamic, transitioning into documentation of the atrocities committed by the Guatemalan government against indigenous peoples, and finally into the narrative of her own rise to activism and community mobilization.
It is simply told, in the vocabulary of about 5th or 6th grade, since Rigoberta is speaking in her second or third language, which was of course translated to English for the edition I read.
I highly recommend it as a lesser-told story of Guatemala's recent past, and an example of the strength and resilience of one woman to fight for her people.
I think this has been one of the more important books I've read. Menchu goes into detail about the struggles Guatamalan indigenous people experience and the colonizing powers that be. The beginning of the book details her culture while the middle and end discuss the horrors that she and others have experienced.
In fact, she was away at boarding school and never worked in the fincas or saw what went on at home.(5) She claimed to have watched a female friend die while they worked in the fields after poison was sprayed.
This never happened.(7) She claimed another brother died of starvation when she was a kid but researcher Dr. David Stoll and also the New York Times found that brother alive and well decades after she said he died.(8) She detailed how the ladinos and soldiers battled them for their land.
At the same time, I found it the most grating aspect of the book, full as it was of contradictions, superlatives, and simply repetitive insistences on the positive aspects of her culture and the crimes committed by her country during the Guatemalan Civil War. Which isn't to say, of course, that I don't think she has every right to tell this story; the crimes she rightfully describes are horrifying, and conveying the intricacies of her culture had a practical purpose, given that she was seeing so many of her people die.
I, Rigoberta Menchu was the third life-history we read, and I was completely touched by her eloquent story-telling, and her dreadfully touching and powerful struggle.
But I read Stoll's book, and I was shocked to discover some of the most striking memories of Rigoberta's never actually happened; her brother was not burned alive, she never worked on the large farms, and all the stories from the farm never happened to her, and she did receive an education, among other incongruities.
I believe this is a very interesting life-history to read, but should definitely be read along with David Stoll's Rigoberta Menchu and the Story of All Poor Guatemalans.
It was quite interesting to read of the blending of the native religions with the Catholicism that was brought in from the "outside" world.
Toward the end, Rigoberta reaches some very telling conclusions about the effects that Catholicism had on her people.Life for her people was heartbreaking and harsh to begin with, but the political climate of the country made things intolerable for the native population, leading to the organization and radicalization of many.
Whether or not the details are totally authentic, I think the book is still worthy of attention.
Rigoberta Menchu grew up in the Highlands of Guatemala and on the coffee and cotton plantations near the coast.
When the landowners tried to take the peasant communities land away from them, Rigoberta's family became involved in organizing a way to protect the community.
The Landowners were supported by the army and the government.Soon Rigoberta was involved in a much wider anti-government movement, to get better and consistent wages for the peasants.
She has had to flee to Mexico to avoid capture by the government, and brought to light the atrocities of the authorizes in Guatemala Rigoberta received the Nobel Peace prize in 1992 for her work.
A powerful narrative of the life of a fierce and brave young woman, whose passion and dedication for her people you can feel reverberating off the pages. Some reviewers complain about or questions its "accuracy" but the story is told in the style of an oral history which I think is culturally appropriate, and thus does not aim for scientific accuracy. As stories are told and retold, the details might change slightly, but what is important is the message and the emotions, and in those aspects, this book succeeds remarkably.
This book is a phenomenal book on equality, and natural human rights. Living in Guatemala for two years, including more than a year with the Poqomchi and Q'eqchi' Indians I was really able to relate to this book and understand how real the fight for equality was and still is to some level. However, at times it was a little hard to get into the story. But overall it was still a worth while read.
This is the story of one indigenous leader's struggles to work with her people to gain humane treatment from a cruel world. It is part memoir and part anthropological study. I found it quite interesting.
Brutally heart rending, powerfully written, I really want to read the books she has written in her own words.
Really powerful book. Important insight into the struggles and oppression that still exist in modernity. Slavery has not been extinguished.
