https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/264840.Mr_Fortune_s_Maggot_and_The_Salutation
The heart is like an old dog.
It was thoughtful of nyrb-classics to combine them here because when you finish the first story you are not quite done with Timothy Fortune.
Townsend Warner felt the same, ending the first story with an 'Envoy':  My poor Timothy, good-bye!
Mr. Fortune was interested to find that many of these were almost word for word the stories of the Old Testament.And:Forever is a word that stretches backward too.
So, you know, be good.The second story is set in Brazil.
It starts with a cough.
Only Englishmen cough like that.
Recommended for old dogs.
I wish I could write so unself-consciously (I know – it’s likely Warner spent many long hours crafting the prose but the effect appears effortless).The story of Mr. Fortune’s Maggot is similar to Lolly Willowes in that the protagonist is someone who’s operated in society, conforming to its expectations, but has never been comfortable in that role.
The realization is not a happy one for Fortune but it does free him to recreate Lueli’s god and restore his desire to live (Lueli attempts suicide at one point), and it leads to the second profound realization in the novel – the nature of Fortune’s love for his “protégé”:
This was my first exposure to Warner, who I sort of knew in passing and by reputation only as someone, while not regarded as unmissable, seems to simmer just below the surface of 20th century fiction, a kind of lesbian Paul Bowles, maybe.I've come across similar authors lately who are best described as "simmering" and what I mean by that is their style is quiet, nothing showy or flashy, but with a very soft and silent intensity, a quietly riotous way of trying to explain the human vaunt and venture.
Warner approaches it from the angles of solitude and religion.
Looking at the reviews on Good Reads and seeing so many four and five stars, I decided to give it a try after all.A happy surprise followed: this quiet novel is more universal than I expected.
And why don't I feel my gladness?'" (page 278)Mr. Fortune imagined that he would be buried on the island; by the end of the novel, he leaves with no plan as to how to live out the rest of his life.
For the right people, I felt compelled to write a review to get this little known novel a bit more recognition.
Writers should leave well enough alone. Mr. Fortune's Maggot is an excellent, gently written story of a missionary, living in paradise, who can't quite handle it. It's delicate, funny, and sad. And totally different from The Salutation, the long-after follow-up story which concludes Mr. Fortune's story in a much artier, more congested, less satisfying way. It drags the first story down enough to make me not appreciate it as much. So 2 stars plus 5 stars equals three. Can I unread the second story?
But when this attempt fails, and Lueli is only barely rescued after a suicide attempt, Mr. Fortune comes to the conclusion that he is doing more harm than good, and his only recourse is to leave Fanua forever, even though there is nothing for him outside it.Although Warner’s introduction gives no indication that such was her intention, the obvious way to read “Mr. Fortune’s Maggot” is as an anti-colonial parable.
Lot's to ponder on this one, both the colonial mentality of the western world, and impossible (most likely homosexual) love.
In fact the "lose of God" didn't move me much, it was the realization that he was in love with Lueli, he's only convert, and the inherently destructive nature of his love that makes the book so great.
While this is no doubt meant to be a metaphor for the "well-intentioned" colonial rule--though Fortune realizes his mistake pretty quickly and converts himself--it does seem, to me at least, that homosexuality is here the driving the force of both the love, the hurt, and the ultimate abandonment of the island.
The first story is very sweet but I didn't like the second one at all
My favorite of 2017.
MR. FORTUNE’S MAGGOT. (1927). Sylvia Townsend Warner. ****. (Also contains the novella, “The Salutation”) Right off, I’d have to say that this is a strange book. It’s topic is missionary work on a Pacific Island, but that’s about as close as you could come to classifying it. Before page 1, the author offers the following: “Maggot. 2. A whimsical or perverse fancy; a crotchet.” Now you can get those squigly things out of your mind. This was Ms. Warner’s second book, after Lolly Willows (see my ea
Mr. Fortune is a Reverend within a missionary body based on a large Pacific Island.
As he explores the island looking for a place to set up his home, he meets a young native boy, Lueli.
Lueli is a good looking boy who, like the rest of the islanders, is constantly happy and laughing.
It picks up the life of Mr. Fortune after his island experience.
Mr. Fortune has become a very contemplative man, and begins to use what he learned on the island in his response to life.
A middle-aged missionary on a paradisiacal tropical island who eventually finds out what love is all about is the protagonist of this novel.
In fact, the book satirises a view of the world that is marked by arrogance and narrow-mindedness that results not only in a lack of understanding for other cultures and religions, but also makes some people want to evangelise them.
It talks of an innocence and happiness that don't necessarily match our ideas.
And it talks of true love that focuses on seeing the loved one happy and nothing else.
to read my review on my book blog 
This is a wonderful, a beautiful book.
Sylvia Townsend Warner describes the natural world and its creatures with a painter's eye.
Her characters are alive; they are flawed, they are wondering, they are honest; they accept their flaws, they make no excuses.
Timothy Fortune at first tries to convert others to believe as he does, not from arrogance but because he is so sure that his way will bring them happiness and peace of mind.
He learns that taking away what someone believes in causes irreparable damage, regardless of how noble one's motives were in doing so.
I will not soon forget Timothy Fortune or his story.
This was an NPR recommended book and not widely available (I had to go to the UA library). Easy to read, a bit simplistic and tedious at times. The book was a predictable commentary, once again, on the folly of Christian missionary and attitude toward other cultures. It may have been intended to be a commentary on the weakness of man, but I interpret it as the weakness of religion imposing unnatural expectations on man.
The e-book edition I read included the coda novella, Salutations. Its primary value is in the beautiful writing. It is just a pleasure to read. But it isn't much for story telling and I really never felt completely engrossed. I think its value as an exploration into human nature and friendship will increase as I continue to reflect on it.
A very quiet book. Very little happens. I often wondered why I continued reading it. Warner has an incredible ability to illuminate the inner workings of a particular person you have met before, and she provides an insight that feels authentic regarding the diminished life society forces certain individuals to live.
Clever, sad, poignant, inviting. A short novel and a long story about the same character--Mr Fortune. In the first, a clergyman who loses his faith but finds happiness while serving in the South Pacific; in the second, the last months of his life in South America. Warner is a very careful and sharp writer.
Mr Fortune's Maggot is a fine, if occasionally tiring, little novel. The Salutation, however, is the star of the pair (if much slower to begin with). As mentioned in the introduction, there's something unsettlingly touching about these stories. Strange, and truly singular, if sometimes hard to say exactly why.
Mr. Fortune goes to a South Pacific island to convert the islanders to Christianity. He succeeds (or, initially, thinks he does) in one conversion but ultimately loses his own faith. A wry, observational story.
I loved this book in an entirely different way than I expected to love it, which is perhaps the highest compliment after all. It's not really a book you can describe; it's better to just experience it. Everyone has their own Fanua.
I can't imagine anything more compelling-- delightful and devastating-- than Warner's narrative prose, its feather-lightness, its psychic depth, its gallant perversity.-reread July 2011
Strange but good.
Charmingly written. This book will make most sense to those at least vaguely familiar with 19th and 20th century Anglicanism, though it is set on a mythical tropical island.
Warner is a dream of a writer, and this South-Sea tale is a lovely meditation on loss of faith and friendship.
Absolutely delightful and beautifully written.
http://www.forbes.com/sites/susancunn...
Really like Sylvia Townsend warner's novels.
