https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78250.The_Teachings_of_Don_Juan
Both paths lead nowhere; but one has a heart, the other doesn't.
Before you embark on any path ask the question: Does this path have a heart?
The trouble is nobody asks the question; and when a man finally realizes that he has taken a path without a heart, the path is ready to kill him.
On the other hand, a path with heart is easy; it does not make you work at liking it."Ever since I read the book I have followed that advice.
The second, A Structural Analysis, is an attempt, Castaneda says, at "disclosing the internal cohesion and the cogency of don Juan’s Teachings."تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه آگوست سال 1986 میلادیعنوان: تعلیمات دون خوان (طریقه ی معرفت نزد یاکی ها)۰ 1365 انتشارات فردوس ـ ترجمه ی حسین نیراگر با آثار کاستاندا آشنایی ندارید، این کتاب (طریقه ی معرفت نزد یاکی ها)، نخستین کتاب از مجموعه ی دوازده کتاب است، که: کارلوس کاستانِدا، در طول عمر خود، به نوشتن آنها اقدام نمود۰ برای آشنایی با جهان بینی ای که او، تلاش در بیان آن، در این مجموعه ی آثار را داشته، و در زمان خود (دهه های هفتاد تا نود سده بیستم میلادی)، بسیار مورد بحث و جنجال، در میان روشنفکران معاصر، بویژه در دنیای غرب، قرار گرفت، بایست از خوانش نخستین کتاب آغاز کرد، و به ترتیب انتشار آن به زبان اصلی، پیش رفت، تا در جریان سیر تکوینی این نوع جهان بینی عرفانی، که بسیار مرموز و جادویی، و در عین حال: بسیار ساده، طبیعی، واقعی، و پذیرفتنی، اما بشدت باورناکردنی است، قرار گرفت.
Since then I've read all of Carlos Casteneda's books, but this is by far the best.
Sadly, the power of this work is often diminished by readers who mistakenly, and obtusely, attribute his experiences solely to tripping through the use of psychotropic plants in Mexico.
"That's a book about tripping," people have told me.
If nothing that he has written about never actually happened, he's gotta have one of the best imaginations in the history of civilization.
Somehow the New Age movement adopted his fine work and insightful observations as their own, but I feel this represents another sad marginalization of what he has done.
I am going to give the same review to all the Carlos Castaneda books I read in that series, simply because they are all outstanding.
I was lucky to come across Castaneda very early on my magickal path.
My spells and rituals have always relied on the power of intent, and I have found no better education on how to focus your intent than in this series of books.
And having been a Wiccan Faery Witch now for 13 years I know much of what is real to us is fiction to those not walking a magickal path.
Essential reading for any deep thinker and open-minded person who has experienced "non-ordinary realities."This book spoke to my soul.
I have had out of body experiences and know firsthand that our physical reality is not the only one.
I have personally experienced some of what is described here - and not from ingesting peyote, but from spontaneous OOBEs. I don't know why I did not read this sooner as I've heard of Castaneda well before now.
It's comforting to have your personal experiences verified.
Maybe it's a combination of both, but I know some of it is not merely fiction.
The Best Advice that anyone has ever given me is all in this book.
This book is my spiritual guidance.
The mood of the warrior who enters into the unknown is not one of sadness; on the contrary, he's joyful because he feels humbled by his great fortune, confident that his spirit is impeccable, and above all, fully aware of his efficiency.
The average man seeks certainty in the eyes of the onlooker and calls that self-confidence.
The warrior seeks impeccability in his own eyes and calls that humbleness.
The average man is hooked to his fellow men, while the warrior is hooked only to infinity."
But to my logical, unenlightened mind, the following statement seems like it should hold: namely, that since The Teachings of Don Juan purports either to be non-fiction or fiction, and since these possibilities are mutually exclusive (or at least could easily be defined as such), then we can inquire into which accolades and/or criticisms apply to each, and whether any apply to both.Accordingly, we should be able to forward a general appraisal of the book that doesn't rely upon any dodgy factual corroboration.
In The Teachings of Don Juan, Castaneda puts forward an epistemology according to which the concepts of "truth" and "reality" don't mean what we think they mean.
Beyond the tripping, the author doesn't seem to understand the spiritual aspects of what Don Juan is trying to tell him.
Like when he smoked the "little smoke" and thought himself to become a bird, he asks Don Juan afterwards "did I really become a bird?" and needles him to give him an objective answer, which, in my opinion, defeats the purpose of the whole experience.At the end of the book, Carlos Casteneda breaks down Don Jaun's belief system in a very scientific yet oddly dogmatic kind of way, like a pastor of a newly found, but no-longer-sacred religion.
At one point during the discussion Richler held up a copy of Carlos Castaneda’s first book The Teachings of Don Juan: A Yaqui Way of Knowledge.
He said with great confidence and certainty that Castaneda’s works about the Yaqui Indians of Mexico represented the greatest hoax since the Piltdown Man. With that, he seemed to dismiss the book out of hand.
I had already, if truth be known, dismissed Castaneda as a new age phony long ago so I too moved right along with Richler to the next item of discussion.
The Teachings of Don Juan may be read as a bildungsroman where the narrator/anthropologist Carlos Castaneda engages with an alternative reality, under the strict guidance of Don Juan, on the path to becoming “a man of knowledge”.
After Castaneda begins developing a relationship with Don Juan, his sense of space and time is challenged by the alternative reality that he becomes inundated within.
In this sense, Don Juan, like Carlos Castaneda, is constructed as an a-historical character, and the reader does not learn much about the mentor other than his experiences with his benefactor.
روشنایی دشمن دوم است و مرد باید مانند ترس با آن مبارزه کندقدرت سرانجام لحظه ای فرا می رسد که مرد مبارز متوجه می شود روشن بینی او جز خالی در برابر دیدگانش نیست.
دون خوان هشدار می دهد که جادوگر همواره با این خطر روبروست که اشتباها دستیاری با جنسیت مونث را اختیار کند، در این صورت بازگشت از دنیای مردگان نامحتمل و غیرممکن می شود.یکی از نکات جالب کتاب (برای من) بیان یک افسانه ی سرخپوستی درباره جادو شدن فرد است.
مرد مبارز بعد از کشف سحر، باید با ساحر مبارزه کند و در صورتی که شکست بخورد روح خود را برای همیشه از دست خواهد داد.
kinda boring
These are great opportunities to expand your perceptions to begin to believe in something greater then yourself that cannot be explained by your culture, current beliefs or family.
Any of Carlos Castanada's books will give you the opportunity to discover another perspective about what reality really is.
For those who call themselves Seekers - looking for the meaning of life - this is a foundational book.
This was the first book I read that started me on the path to greater consciousness.
I thank him as a student would thank a teacher with deep love and gratitude for his contribution to greater consciousness for us all.
Normally teachings that involve drugs bother me to no end.
Drugs, I think, complicate spirituality by orienting seekers toward intense spiritual experiences.
Again, in the person of Don Juan, the drugs occupy a very secondary position.
Foremost, most of the drug experiences are terrible, and are used for specific teaching purposes, usually some form of power.
Second, Don Juan is a trickster and appears to be tripping up Casteneda in every way possible.
The drugs seem more like very intuitive beatings than cool experiences.
I would only hope that I might one day have someone to beat me like Don Juan beat Carlos
Svakako da bi mi ova knjiga mnogo više legla da sam dvadesetak godina mlađi i siguran sam da bih pronašao mnogo više paragrafa vrednih da zastanem i pročitam ih ponovo.Kao, na primer, ovaj:"No!
I'm never angry at anybody!
No human being can do anything important enough for that.
You get angry at people when you feel that their acts are important.
I don't feel that way any longer."Poslednja trećina je suvoparna strukturološka analiza koja ubija svu čar čitanja i magiju celokupnog opisanog doživljaja, tako da sam odlučio da taj deo apsolutno ignorišem, ne samo u čitanju, nego i u ocenjivanju.Malo je prevagnula i nostalgija.Shodno tome, 4 zvezdice.
I have just completed it for my third time, and it was just as fresh as the times I read it during college.Carlos Castaneda was an American author who wrote a series of books about his experiences with traditional Mesoamerican Shamanism.
The books that follow The Teachings of Don Juan: A Yaqui Way of Knowledge are also excellent, and I plan on re-reading the series and reviewing it.
As the series progresses, it seems to me as if parts of Castaneda’s intellect are reshaped by his apprenticeship with don Juan, and it becomes easier for him to explain his experiences in nonordinary reality in words.
He has a very direct personal way of revealing his story, about an encounter with an ageing Native-American man of knowledge, who takes Carlos under his wing and reveals to him some of the secrets of shamanism.
For me, the most rememberable tale in the book is Casteneda's transformation into a crow.
It seems really strange and bizarre and perhaps fiction but for anyone who has actually had a shamanic experience, the story has a real truth to it and is a perfect example of the mystic powers that true shamen can harness.
Carlos Casteneda found himself a genuine opportunity in learning from a great man who had not abandonned the ancient teachings to the modern world.
I was reminded of this book by a recent article, and I realized I had never read it when it first came out. I was curious to see what the fuss was about. I must say I was sorely disappointed -- the book is clumsily written and very sparing with its insights. Not recommended for enlightenment or even a good read.
Very deep, you need to be in the right frame of mind for this one
I'm just going to be honest here--I did not like this book.
This book just wasn't what I was expecting.
The first section containing the teachings & dialogue of Don Juan was interesting.
But the descriptions of "non-ordinary reality" were oftentimes so bizarre that they sounded fake to me.
I tried to stay open-minded, but Castaneda's experiences seemed to be a little too "convenient," as far as how they lined up with what Don Juan was trying to teach.
If this sounds up your alley, go for it, but I wouldn't recommend it.
I loved this book but once I researched the author a little more, I found his cult like theories to be weird and creepy.
These books are primarily about student anthropologists who studies Native American usage of peyote, Dimethyltryptamine(DMT), saliva, and mushrooms.
He meets a shaman who teaches him the method in which to use peyote and discovers the powers of shamanism.
The first half of this book goes into the efforts of trust and steps he has to take to prove his worthiness and trust; before he is shown and given peyote.
Heh.Recently I had a dream where Mescalito told me to take my sheet and wrap it around me like a toga, which I did.
Then I was supposed to go somewhere, to a meeting of people like myself, but I stopped because I didn't know where it was.
Then Mescalito told me to look on the sheet for writing to appear giving me directions to the meeting.
I unwrapped myself and looked for the writing but it didn't appear.
Enjoyable to read and also full of interesting and inspiring knowledge; I gained a lot of ideas about self-awareness, personal improvement and approaching life with a more respectful and open attitude.
Then ask yourself alone, one question: Does this path have a heart?
Both paths lead nowhere; but one has a heart, the other doesn't.
One makes you strong; the other weakens you.” “A man goes to knowledge as he goes to war: wide-awake, with fear, with respect, and with absolute assurance.
Going to knowledge or going to war in any other manner is a mistake, and whoever makes it might never live to regret it."
Although the authenticity of this text has been questioned over the years, and it has been disowned as an anthropological case study (for obvious reasons), this text remains a beautiful and thought-provoking piece of historical fiction.
This work demonstrates the way a writer can blend authentic experiences with the supernatural to create a piece of art which is more moving than an unadulterated reflection of reality.
Castaneda's beautifully succinct prose and the nearly Socratic method of dialogue are sure to inspire and challenge any creative writers.
Winds up studying under the tutelage of a local Yaqui shaman and explores the nether-regions of human perception, induced through a variety of 'power plants' as well as peyote (its own special deity).
I haven't read the others, but I like to think of this first book as the unadulterated pure form of the exotic and unknown/forgotten/lost culture of shamanism, and some insight to the abundance of knowledge they hold.
By the end of the book, most of my conventional beliefs about human perception, and the order of the world were shattered.
Carlos Castaneda's series about Yaqui religion is a mixture of fact and fiction. According to the Wikipedia article about him, the first three of the dozen or so volumes he produced constitute the academic work leading to his doctorate in anthropology. However, only this volume, the first, has an academic tone. Subsequent volumes are more literary.Although Castaneda is rightly criticized for misrepresenting his work to the UCLA faculty of anthropology, the first three books still bear reading for his compelling descriptions of altered states of consciousness.
Kattığı bir şeyler oldu, ancak, benim konuya duyduğum uzaklık nedeniyle okumam ve anlamam biraz zor oldu.Tabii ki bu kitabın değer ve önemini azaltmıyor.
when it came out this book was so unique it put a spell on me with the mix of anthropology, magic, piote mushrooms adventure, indians and white. i took it lately again. magic gone i hoped i changed and not the book.
To say the least, many of those experiences were extraordinarily scary, life-threatening and to use a phrase from years ago "mind-bending".The text (an appropriate term I believe) is split into two principle components - a diary of Castaneda's experiences with Don Juan ("The Teachings") followed by Castaneda's summary of the teachings ("A Structural Analysis").
On the other hand, a path with heart is easy; it does not make you work at liking it."The last summary is Castaneda's summary of Don Juan's teachings regarding knowledge.1.
Մեկ շնչով կարդացի։ 5 աստղը քիչ է Կաստանեդայի գրական տաղանդն ու Դոն Խուանի ուղեկցությամբ անցած փորձը 
