https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7136681-h-rv-rk
Tom Kristensen's novel, about a thirty-something literary critic who loses himself in a maelstrom of drink, jazz, and sex is one of the most disturbing and absorbing accounts of self-destruction in modern European literature."The above warning is from Morten Høi Jensen’s Introduction to the novel in the New York Review Books edition.
And similar to the connection between Hermann Hesse and wolf of the steppes Harry Haller, author Tom Kristensen (1893-1974) most definitely shares much with his protagonist Ole Jastrau – he published poetry and worked as a literary critic in Copenhagen, had rocky relations with women (Kristensen was married five times), and, most famously, was an excessive drinker.The opening pages of Kristensen's Havoc (published in 1930) provide the frame: Ole Jastrau sits at his desk in his apartment down the street from Copenhagen’s Town Square Hall.
These are mild concerns, but then two communist friends shove their way into the apartment, on the run from the police, and in the course of their discourse with Jazz, they shove wedges and crowbars into the cracks of his insecurities and make them into yawning chasms of all consuming rebellion.
Tom Kristensen’s novel, about a thirty-something literary critic who loses himself in a maelstrom of drink, jazz, and sex, is one of the most disturbing and absorbing accounts of self-destruction in modern European language.”There is music.
A woman by the name of Black Else keeps showing up, and despite warnings from his friend Vuldum that she is diseased, Jazz can not stay away from her.
The short bio in the front of this book says, "Kristensen lived a notoriously dissolute life." So, write about what you know, right?The protagonist is Ole Jastrau, a book reviewer for a Danish newspaper, circa 1930.
And in case we missed that, the author says, you know, like Jesus Christ.
For chrissakes.But then he tries to break into a church, unsuccessfully, and in perfect character, says: I know a bar that's never closed.So, perhaps, my allegorical friends, Jastrau is someone else.A friend says to him, "Life is the damnedest filthy mess I've ever come up against, and it's amazing that Goethe never said so in one syllable."That's an amazing sentence, by the way, and we weren't even talking about Goethe.
Amazing... Some of the best prose I've ever read, and an incredibly captivating exploration of the depths and darkness of the human soul. Ecce Homo!
Hærværk er og bliver et mesterVÆRK uden lige. Jeg var helt tosset med denne nøgleroman, dette gennembrud i dansk litteratur. Ole Jastraus selvdestruktive rejse gennem de mørke Københavnske gader og stræder. Mindblowing. Den kan og skal helt klart læses igen.
This was something of a book! Despite the events it depicts being altogether tragic, it's a quite cheerful story. A rather tough and dense read, but definitely worth it.
Fantastisk sprog, men selve fortællingen tabte mig undervejs efter 2-300 siders druk og forfald.
Maar ik ben behoorlijk wat sceptischer: ten eerste vind ik "Stoner" echt duidelijk sterker (ook een heel ander boek, trouwens), en als niet-kenner van Scandinaviërs heb ik toch allerlei Noren en Zweden in de kast (Gustafsson, Saabye Christensen, Kjaerstad, Hamsun, Torgny Lindgren, Tunstrom, Dagerman, Fosse, Knausgard) die ik hoger aansla.
In diverse passages word je helemaal meegezogen in de delirerende verloedering van de hoofdpersoon, en kijk je met zijn ogen naar de wereld: de zintuigen van die man zijn dan door drank en slaapgebrek zodanig ontregeld en tegelijk ook verscherpt dat de wereld in een heel ander en duisterder licht verschijnt, en DAT licht laat Kristensen ons dus vlijmscherp zien.
Brød mig rigtig godt om denne:)
Af en toe zijn er wat mindere momenten, maar geen nood, hoofdpersonnage Ole Jastrau weet altijd snel de weg naar de Bar des Artistes te vinden, met zijn donkere interieur, schetterende jazz en sloten alcohol.
Wat zou hij vorige nacht allemaal hebben uitgespookt?'Vernieling' is een tijdloos verhaal, want ik maakte me de bedenking dat als iemand op het onzalige idee zou komen een moderne remake van dit boek uit 1930 te maken, hij of zij maar weinig aanpassingen zou moeten maken.
Een gsm hier, een laptop daar, maar niets essentieel.
Heeft dat woord nog een andere, minder moderne betekenis?
Jeg forstod den ikke første gang, jeg læste den, da jeg var omkring 20, men nu synes jeg, at det er et mesterværk!! Fantastisk bog!
I believe a mutely perceived part of its strength resides in dealing with issues that demand resolution - divorce, apartment burning, poverty, alcoholism to the point of hallucination, Roman Catholicism, and Evangelical Marxism - yet without granting a sign of archival finality to any of them.
For in truth, such things seem to demand resolution in the world of fiction.
Thus, Havoc is a snapshot of the ecliptic life of a man stuck between multiple stations with no concrete direction save the physiological demanding of a thirst quenched by poison.
An advocate of NYRB Classics since my office was next door some years back, Havoc is a sledgehammer gem.
Helt kort er det en bog, der foregår i 1920ernes København, hvor man følger karakteren Jastraus nedadgående udvikling fra at leve et normalt liv med familie og job og til at give slip på alt og alle.
Den nedadgående spiral beskrives meget godt med citatet: 'Undertiden gribes man af lede ved at være aktiv deltager i denne verdens skæve udvikling, og den har nu grebet mig så stærkt, at jeg går min vej.'Jastrau beslutter sig bevidst for at gå i hundene.
Det bliver et billedet på hans eget liv som er i ruiner, og det chokerer ham så meget, at han ikke kan vende tilbage til lejligheden.
"Frygt Sjælen og dyrk den ikke, for den ligner en Last" Selv om jeg ikke bryder mig synderligt om nogen af karaktererne og absolut ikke har skyggen af medlidenhed med nogen af dem, så kan jeg ikke komme udenom, at Tom Kristensens sprog blæste mig omkuld og tog vejret fra mig op til flere gange.
Jeg glæder mig til at stifte yderligere bekendtskab med den danske litteraturskat og ikke mindst at forsøge mig med mere fra Tom Kristensens pen, når jeg har sundet mig efter mødet med Ole Jastrau.Læs min fulde anmeldelse her: http://stinchen.dk/2016/04/30/bogklub...
Schnaps das war sein letztes Wort....Stark begonnen, dann extrem nachgelassen und auf allen Vieren ins Ziel gekrabbelt,auf qualitativer Ebene bildet Tom Kristensen den Abstieg seine Helden, der kein Glas stehen lassen kann, zuverlässig ab.
Nimmt man den Klassikerbonus hinzu, dann reicht es für drei Sterne gnadenhalber oder doch nicht.Ich gebe zwei und kann mit jedem mitfühlen, der das Buch zum Kotzen findet.Der dänische Ulysses verdient seinen Ruf nur bedingt, es ist eher ein Dekadenzroman, der um die Jahrhundertwende hätte entstehen können, auch wenn der Stream of Consicousness als erzähltechnische Novität zum Einsatz kommt.
Kristensen hat danach nie wieder einen Roman geschrieben, sondern nur noch Rezensionen und das ist auch gut so.
As with most books we read in school, I had the feeling the author was looking down on the reader, thinking he was a fucking genius. I just can't handle shit like that. Yes, there are some interesting parts to this, especially the language, but come on. It was mainly boring. Technically interesting, practically boring.
måske er genren psykologisk roman bare ikke for mig men hold op hvor var den kedelig....en mand der går i hundene af egen fri vilje er ikke noget der får mig til læse åndeløst i flere timer. det var virkelig en kamp at komme igennem den bog! selve sproget var dog godt og den var ret velskrevet, men som sagt ødelagde handlingen (eller mangel på samme) det for mig.
Jeg gik i hundene.
Fascinating story!! And beautifully written too, the language and images the author paints for you drew me in on the first page. Read it!
★★★★½
This never fully connected with me. Definite bright spots but overwritten, long sections dragged.
Han er ikke glad for sit liv og sit job, og da han bliver konfronteret med sine gamle kommunistiske venner Sanders og Steffensens, beslutter Jastrau først ubevidst og senere bevidst at gå i hundene.Jastrau drikker mere og mere, kommer ikke hjem, prøver en luder, ryger i detentionen og svigter derved sin kone Johanne og deres lille søn.
Han siger jobbet op og drikker konstant sammen med andre journalister, Steffensen og den dame, som han slæber med hjem i lejligheden en dag.
Han vil ikke give ham pengene, for så drikker Jastrau dem bare op, mener Kjær.
From the reviews, I know I'm "supposed" to like this Danish masterpiece, written in 1930 and apparently never out of print in Denmark, more than I did.
Ole Jastrau is a young intellectual, married with one son, a highly regarded job as a book reviewer.
The book follows his descent into alcoholism, a descent in which he gives up family, job, apartment, respectability.
This reader followed this story, the course of his rage and rejection of social mores with some boredom.
Yes, there's a critique of 20th Century politics and capitalism but the critique was surrounded by too much boozy conversation for me.
Everything burns; the beauty of destruction and nihilism.
Sikke et værk. Jeg har ingen ord.
Rekordarta
Best een prima boek, maar veel te dik. Ook enigzins gedateerd.
Malerisk beskrivelse af det at gå i hundene midt i en jazztid. Men MINDST 200 sider for lang!
Hærværk is considered a classic in Danish litterature, and it is well-deserved, as the main character's existential crisis transcends the time and setting in which it was written, and says something interesting and worthwhile about feeling trapped by expectations, society, your job, your relations, and of the mundane but significant need to rebel and act out in a a self-destructive manner, sometimes discarding or destroying something worthwhile and positive, simply in order to feel as if a choice has been made.Hærværk is sometimes critisized as having a cast of characters that is largely if not wholly unsympathetic, and for having a droll outer narrative, and that is all true.
A true Danish masterpiece. One of the must read novels in our canon. The scope, the poetry, the humanism all deeply woven into this living, breathing and thinking portrayal of human demise is spellbinding. Many sentences sum op your life in and out of human relationships.
