https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/493279.The_Phantom_Public
They must judge externally, based on symbols and signs, and can act only by throwing their support behind one of the interests involved.
(60) “When power, however absolute and unaccountable, reigns without provoking a crisis, public opinion does not challenge it.” (60) “It is the function of public opinion to check the use of force in a crisis, so that men, driven to make terms, may live and let live.” (64) In the democratic process, citizens align themselves with or against proposals.
(98) To determine whether a rule is defective, Lippmann proposes two tests: assent and conformity.
I felt totally annoyed when I finished this book and I'm not sure I know why.
I read a lot but this book made me feel uneasy because I wasn't sure I was getting the intended message and for that I feel annoyed.
At times his prose was brilliant, I agreed and yet I wasn't sure I was agreeing with what I would think was true, like he was a politician running for office and making his position sound good to get elected but it really was terrible for almost everyone.
However, I thinks its wise to read a view point other than your own.
I learned about the bleak outlook with which Progressives view The People.
The philosophies made me sick to my stomach because they are elitist and imply that The People don't have rights because they're too stupid to operate as a group.
I found it interesting that in the movie "13 Days" that the President leaked disinformation to Lippmann because he knew Lippmann would blab it to the Russians.
I thought Communism was dead in this country, but I have been brought back to the sickening reality that not only is it alive and shoving it's way into the mainstream, but that our corrupt Congress is rife with it fueled by the writings of Alinsky, Lippmann and other subversives.

I believe this quote from the text sums up the general framework:“The fundamental difference which matters is that between insiders and outsiders.
Their relations to a problem are radically different.
Only the insiders can make decisions, not because he is inherently a better man but because he is so placed that he can understand and can act.
– In short, like the democratic theorists, they miss the essence of the matter, which is, that competence exists only in relation to function; that men are not good, but good for something.; that men cannot be educated, but only educated for something” P.140.
I came to read this some years ago after reading Noam Chomsky reference the book numerous times. This is a more entertaining read than Public Opinion, both more clearly cynical and also written in a much more chummy style. It's at times thought provoking.
Super pessimistic about the average person. I loved every word of it.
I would like this in the Kindle Edition, when it comes available.
Référence indispensable pour les réflexions sur la notion de "public"; à lire en dialogue avec Dewey, Le public et ses problèmes.
Somewhat pessimistic about democracy without really any concrete solutions for alternatives except to leave it to the 'insiders'. However, it is classic poli sci literature.
Oldie, but a goodie.
