https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30868.The_Bean_Trees
I turned to this book hoping to get a good dose of Tucsonan flavor to keep me going until I had the time and money to go home and remember why I left in the first place.
(As a side note, though: if we’re going to just start dropping real places into the book for authenticity, I would have swapped the ‘Jesus Is Lord’ tire place for the church that has ‘Happiness is Submission to God’ painted on it—a slogan which often gets altered to ‘Happiness is Submission to Godzilla!’ by persistent neighborhood delinquents…)
Comparing her rural Kentucky hometown and Tucson, Arizona together to discover they’re as foreign to each other as to be separate countries, Taylor declares herself an immigrant in her own right and easily warm up to Mattie--the local mechanic--and the plight of the hunted illegal immigrants coming and going from the sanctuary rooms above her garage.
She is naive, but warm-hearted, as she struggles to comprehend the idea that a person can not only commit illegal acts, but can be illegal in the eyes of the law, too.When I began the novel, I was not expecting to read about political and human rights issues.
I quite liked this, though it's obvious that this was Kingsolver's first novel.
The main character, Taylor, is unevenly developed--she's too mutable, changing to fit what Kingsolver wants to say or how she wants to say it at various points in the book--and many of the other characters are types, not people, however finely observed.
What drew me into this book, though, were the hints of how vivid her writing would become by the time of The Poisonwood Bible: there are some really sharp and oddly beautiful observations, and when she's not trying too hard to drive home a point, her dialogue is nicely observed.
I have to admit, this book really did a number on me.
But the story was interesting, so I kept going.And the thing is, so does Taylor, the main character.
As she charges her way through a haphazard journey to the Southwest, she begins to grow up right before your eyes, and so does her narrative voice.
A story that started out very basic and straightforward becomes rich and multi-faceted.
I now have nothing but love for this adorable book.
So roll your eyes all you want at the girl in the first few chapters, she'll grow on you.
Real Rating: 1.5* of fiveI made a huge mistake. I thought this was The Beans of Egypt, Maine. It wasn't...it was the hallucinations of a pregnant and sleep-deprived Kingsolver transmuted to fiction. I daresay its fans would say "art;" I beg to differ.Like the unbearable gynergy of The Mists of Avalon, the fog of womanness that enshrouds this book blocked my view of its merits.
A girl gets out of her small town, after high school, to start a new life only to be saddled with a random child that was placed in her car. Her life is suddenly taking turns she did not expect.

I picked The Bean Trees to rehabituate myself to the life of an audiobook commuter because I remembered reading another Barbara Kingsolver book in college, and I remembered her writing to be funny and engaging, I remembered she leans toward female protagonists that don't suck, and she wrote that book everyone loves, Animal Vegetable Miracle.
The Bean Trees had no waiting at all, and Sue Monk Kidd said it was one of her all-time favorites it in the Goodreads September newsletter.
That's enough good reasons.So I "read" the audiobook of The Bean Trees, and I enjoyed it.
One I kept, the other I did not.”Marietta Greer, in her early 20’s, left Pittman, Kentucky alone in a 1955 VW bug with no windows, no back seat, and no starter.
Her first promise to herself was to get a new name: “I wasn’t crazy about anything I had been called up to that point in life, and this seemed like the time to make a clean break.” Her second promise was to drive west until her car quit running and stay there.
Oklahoma made me feel there was nothing left to hope for”), her car gives out - a bent rocker arm - and she careens into a service station.
I love Barbara Kingsolver, but I can't believe this book was ever published.
If that child was molested as a baby, she would need years of serious professional help and Taylor is clueless.
And the storyline about Estevan and Esperanza losing their child but that she was just being cared for by somebody else?
And the dialogue between Marietta and her mother does not sound like authentic dialogue.
I guess I really didn't like this book at all.
I read it super fast because that's what i do to get through a book i don't like, fast.
Someone abandons a baby, in your broken down car, you don't have a home or money or a destination in mind, so you decide to adopt baby.3.
You decide to adopt baby, but you spent the next several years being so bewildered by motherhood that you might as well have left baby in the car to be raised by coyotes.4.
Americans in general are directly responsible for the torture of innocent Guatemalans (in general) because an American manufactured telephone was disassembled and used for electric shock torture by the bad guy Guatemalans.
This story was just a ton of fun! I whipped through it very quickly. Nice flow, and at times hilarious, especially in the first half of the book or so. The Southern expressions cracked me up, and I love the way she poked fun at the 80s New Age culture.The style is somewhat similar to Elizabeth Berg, but without so much heavy sentiment. (That's not a criticism of Berg. I like her books a lot, too.)I thought I hated this author because of Poisonwood Bible. I'm delighted to find out she can tell a great story.
While a lot less refined than the others I mention above, the beautiful, captivating storytelling is evident and spellbinding again.
I was also worried that with this book without those BIG themes - religion, colonialism, Mccarthyism, communism, art, etc - that this element of storytelling would be lost.
Even stripped back to the bones of a simple story, southern girl wants to make something of herself somewhere else from home, Kingsolver's storytelling comes through.
Is the book a good introduction, or even continuation, of Kingsolver's writing?
But going in with my hesitant trepidation of a fan who is worried of being let down, I was not disappointed.
I really liked this book. Even more than Poisonwood Bible- which was good in a different way. This book reminds me of Where the Heart Is. It's a quick read- I think you'll like it.
I read The Poisonwood Bible a little over a year ago and loved it, so I'm not sure what made me take so long to pick up something else by Kingsolver (maybe that ever-so-long to-be-read list of mine...) I was aware that this was her debut novel and that some readers felt it wasn't as good as her later work, but I was pleasantly surprised.
The main characters grow nicely as the story progresses - appropriate, given how young they are at the beginning.
If, however, you are willing to spend a while getting to know the two young women featured, I think you will enjoy The Bean Trees.
But the two young women, from similar backgrounds, find one another and start building a firm friendship.
Instead of mooning around, hoping for a transformation of her absent husband, she finally takes charge of her life.
These are issues that all young women face at some point in life (independence, marriage, careers, children, relations with parents)—how we each deal with them depend on the resources, both financial and friends/family, that we have available to us.
The Bean Trees by Barbara Kingsolver is the older twin of a book I read a year ago called Pigs in Heaven.
As the first book of the duo, it chronicles the flight of Taylor Greer from a small, hick lifestyle to a freer life she didn't expect.
Suddenly, Taylor finds that she's a single mother with no prospects.
I liked the idea Kingsovler presented and I think she has brings real places into fiction, but I just was not impressed by the execution.Another complaint that I had about Pigs in Heaven, which also holds for this book, is that there were moments that made me believe this novel wouldn't age well.
i give up on barbara kingsolver.
i LOVED "the poisonwood bible." one of my favorites.
i abhorred "animal, vegetable, miracle." i am one of those people that HAS to finish every book i start, but I couldn't get past page 150.
i was hoping that it was just her attempt at nonfiction that failed, but now i can't get page 150 of this either.
i'm starting to think "the poisonwood bible" was a fluke.
no more barbara for me.
2 stars because it's gotten such good reviews, and maybe i'm too dumb/lazy to find what it is.
also, it would make a good lifetime movie.
I've been dipping into Flight Behavior at the same time as I've read The Bean Trees, and it's immedi
In this delightful first novel by Kingsolver, she already has her skills working on all cylinders.
The tale portrays a journey of a young woman, Taylor, to escape from a restricted life in a small town in Kentucky.
Along the way, an abused 3-year old Cherokee girl is abandoned in her car in Oklahoma, whom she names Turtle, and incorporates into her life at the point her car falls apart in Tuscon, Arizona.
The impacts of poverty, classism, racism, child abuse, and persecution of political refugees from South America are some of the themes.
I place this one in the same ball park with novels of Kent Haruf and Billie Letts.
if Barbara Kingsolver's fictional characters suddenly spring to life and buy houses in my beloved neighborhood.
I've officially read 3 of Kingsolver's novels now, and I haven't liked a single character.
I enjoyed the story and the writing of Prodigal Summer, yet still managed to dislike every character.
It's not even that the characters are unformed or inauthentic.
I'd rather have my teeth cleaned than go out for coffee with any of these people.I have a collection of Kingsolver essays on my night stand, and I'm really going to give it the old college try, but.
no more of her fiction for me.
This Book was pleasantThings i like:1.Female relationships, very strong i know Taylor wouldn't have made it without them.
I love the relationship between Taylor and Turtle.
This book is filled with motherly love.2.
Struggles- Very realistic (for her time) struggles.
The book was truthful and lovable.
The struggles were difficult because Taylor was dealing with something that she really wanted to avoid which is having a child.
Taylor was always running away from every teenage girls practical fate and it was a surprise to have her put into her life.
The way it happened truly shocked me.This was really good for her first book.
This author is pretty famous I guess and this book has thousands of reviews on G'reads.
It's VERY hard for an author to tell any kind of a "real" love story and not make it boring for a male reader(and for female readers too, just to be fair).
I suppose it's possible that BK was trying to make Taylor look cute in having her describe it that misunderstanding kind of way.Finished last night with a bit of an underwhelming feeling.
Taylor is a kind of opaque and un-interesting character, though possibly more compelling to female readers.
My first attempt of reading her work was “The Poisonwood Bible”.
Stopped reading a little after half way.
Kingsolver tells a wonderful story about love.
About the love a person feels for friends, family and children even when the children are not biologically their own.
Kingsolver, gives readers something that's increasingly hard to find today….
She managed to escape the fate of most of her contemporaries in her rural, Kentucky town.
Then fate stepped in ….
a two year old girl was left in the front seat of her car.Great story..
I’m glad I gave Kingsolver another try..
The Bean Trees is an oddly entertaining and endearing little book.
At first I was not sure I could stomach a book that read like a cross between Garrison Keillor's A Prairie Home Companion and something written by Erma Bombeck but the more I read the more invested I became in this quirky little gem.Under the humour and one liners generated by store names like Jesus Is Lord Used Tires, there are themes of separation and loss and finding a family of choice when circumstances prohibit going home again.I'm glad I didn't give up on this book when it opened with so much silliness.
As Kingsolver found her feet in this her first novel, it became quite clear that she has the ability to both enlighten and entertain her readers.Interesting read that may not be everyone's cup of tea.
This is a well-written novel with a resilient protagonist, beautifully-drawn characters and an inspiring theme of relationships, growth and compassion. It was interesting to me to see this author's progress from this early novel to The Poisonwood Bible, published a few books later, and which is superbly written. In my zeal, I also started Kingsolver's early Animal Dreams, which is thematically somewhat similar but more of a love story, which holds no particular interest for me, but her style is strong and I'll happily finish it.
A decent choice for a quick, well written novel to pass a long airplane ride. Although full of confrontations with "hard issues" like immigration, violence, injustice & single motherhood, these themes weren't given more than an passing once-over. Although easy to fall into and even enjoy, the critical edge and depth that made Poisonwood Bible one of my all-time favorite books was absolutely missing here.
Another book that I read and loved in high school that I am filing here. I have since read Pigs in Heaven, Animal Dreams, and The Poisonwood Bible.
Heartwarming. And much of it took place in my home town, Tucson, which added another layer of enjoyment. But most of all I loved the message of the bean trees and the underlying goodness of people.
Subsequently I read The Poisonwood Bible, which is a very challenging novel with serious stickability.
Thus, I was curious to read Kingsolver's first novel, The Bean Trees, which was published in 1988.Remarkably, the numerous themes--immigration, indigenous people, adoption, and a faulty judicial system--are still relevant today; I often forgot that I was reading a 30-year-old novel.
Unfortunately, once the story moves past Kentucky, the settings in Oklahoma and Arizona just weren't as vividly portrayed, and I struggled to feel connected to those places.
All that said, I'm very glad I read this debut and look forward to reading Kingsolver's newest novel, Unsheltered, when it releases in October.
