https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43926.The_Innocent
Seriously best Harlan Coben novel ever! Loved this book! Classic Coben, twists and turns and will leave you guessing until the last page! Highly recommend. Awesome book :)
You decide to write a stand alone book about a guy who can't become a lawyer because he killed some guy at a fraternity party.
So your character becomes a paralegal whose practice is only eclipsed by Danny Devito playing Deck Shifflet, the "paralawyer" in The Rainmaker.You aren't a lawyer so you don't know how utterly improbable this is.
So you spend fifty pages showing off how clever you are.You are so clever that you try to write the book in second person, present tense.
In the middle you write third person past tense from differing points of view.
Love HC.
This fell short somewhere along the road, I felt it meandered and I was not drawn in.
This was not meant to be, and thus starts a cat and mouse chase involving his lovely wife.Harlan Coben plays around with nattation styles here, but the only redeeming quality for me was the narrator in my audio version, the voice was menacing and I felt a lot was in store.
The use of second person narrative at the end added another menacing touch, but it didn't deliver for me as a whole.
This was my first Harlan Coben thriller and one of my two favourites.
What I will say is that I love the way in which Coben keeps up the momentum.Unlike some authors, he doesn't save up his twists for the end, he scatters them liberally throughout the book.
Nearly every chapter ends with a surprise, keeping the reader waiting until he returns to it later.
And he still manages a big twist at the end (although I had a vague sense that it was coming).As one who has been heavily influenced by Coben's style, I can say that he is the master of the lostinabook style.
“The best revenge is to be unlike him who performed the injury.”  ----Marcus AureliusHarlan Coben, an international bestselling author, has penned a hypnotizing crime thriller, The Innocent in which the author has spun a tale about an ex-con whose after prison life has turned out to be surprisingly good, but unfortunately his dream life threatens to come crashing down when a video featuring his wife is sent to his phone by his wife, and parallely, one murder occurs after another and young cop is trying to connecting the dots of these murders while another teenager tries to dig up the past of her murdered mother and must punish her killers.Synopsis: The horror of one night is forever etched in Matt Hunter’s memory: the night he innocently tried to break up a fight—and ended up a killer.
A mysterious nun - with ties to Las Vegas - is murdered, and it's found she recently made a phone call to Marsha's house.
Matt tracks down the black-haired man - also from Las Vegas - who soon turns up dead.
As the dead bodies pile up local investigators as well as FBI agents from Las Vegas look to Matt, the ex-con, as a likely suspect.
Determined not to go back to prison Matt embarks on his own investigation, but everyone in this story has secrets to keep and Matt and his family are soon in danger.
Once again, a fast-paced edge of your seat thriller by Coben!
Now many years later he's released from prison and starting a new life, working as a paralegal at a law firm, he marries the love of his life, Olivia, and they're expecting their first child.
So Matt takes matters into his own hands to find out about Olivia's dark past.
The first half of the book starts out kind of slow but after a few chapters I was up past my bedtime reading it!
By the end I was totally blown away, just what you'd expect from Harlan Coben!
This was my first book read by this author and I gotta say I was not disappointed.
I loved the whole plot and idea of the story.
We start out with our main character Matt and see how he nearly destroys his life as a young man and we watch how he tries to make something better of himself despite the odds.
I feel like Coben can create a mean character and I love that.
There were a few I loved and a few I hated as well.
I look forward to many more Coben books in the future.
Not a bad book by any means, but having got to the end I'm still not one hundred percent clear on what happened.
There were an awful lot of people, an awful lot of interwoven motives, and the result was like a seriously bad knot on my six year old's shoelaces that I can't seem to unpick.
On the other hand, Coben writes extremely well - the book is easy to read, full of interesting characters, and great dialogue.
If I have a criticism on style, it's that many of the male law-enforcement characters seemed rather similar, becoming one amorphous mass of paunchy middle-aged wisecracking world-weary smugness (at least in my head).
I had been hearing for months about how amazing Harlan Coben is, and I was able to get my hands on this novel at a used book sale.
So I bought it and I really enjoyed it, for the most part.
The novel follows a man named Matt Hunter.
After he gets the text a series of events follows, with twists and turns you wouldn't believe.
The thing I especially loved about this novel was all the perspectives and the world building.
Coben does a fantastic job at giving you two completely different worlds and somehow weaving them together.
I really enjoy that.
This was my second time reading this one and it was even better this time around. Definitely one of Harlan Coben's best.
*spoilers* Read this in one day, which I wouldn't recommend.
I had to finish it for book club!
My head is still spinning trying to untangle the web and keep all the characters straight.
Obviously written by a guy, with the storyline being about a hooker in Vegas, a macho frat house fight, and the clue to the unravelling is the serial number on the deceased woman's breast implants.
That wrapped it up just a little too neatly and really pushed it over the edge of unbelievable for me.
My first visit with Harlan Coben and I enjoyed the work. This is a tangled murder mystery that gradually reveals many hidden agendas, The good guys aren't always the good guys and promises made that seem broken are sometimes kept after all. Will not go racing back to his work but will revisit.
Riveting, Funny, Complex With Twists & Turns! An Excellent Read! I Loved It!
Matt Hunter is on his way back to college when the unthinkable happens, he gets in a fight and ends up killing a boy.
Until one day after his wife leaves for a business trip, he gets a strange message from her on his cell phone.
His wife in a blonde wig with this man.
The reality turns out to be a whole lot more than Matt could ever imagine.
This book is chock full of twists and turns and strippers and cops and ex-cons and family.
A good book I didn't want to put down.
Coben is my new summer love.
I've been reading everything I can get as my brain-candy whilst getting ready for a temporary move to the west coast.
This particular book does what the best of Coben's do: create a sympathetic, sometimes stupid, good-hearted, slightly damaged hero who only survives because he has some seriously smart, devoted, interesting friends!
I just hate it when white guys write these decent thrillers where the bad lesbian did it.
Of course the bad lesbian did it.
And of course she was able to manipulate everyone for the whole book - isn't that what lesbians are all about?
C'mon, Coben.
Harlan Coben presenteia-nos com mais um livro repleto de reviravoltas inesperadas e surpresas ao virar de cada página.Opinião completa: http://quandoseabreumlivro.blogspot.p...
A very good read from one of my favourite writers.Fast paced and at times humorous but always a great read.
Harlan Coben writes a great mystery.to my Christian reader fans: there is situational adult content, but nothing explicit.
mooi boek, tragisch verhaal en zijn herkenbare leesstijl.
Another good one from Coben . Would recommend .
I’ve not read a whole lot of Harlan Coben’s work but so far, the books I have read have all been fast-paced thrillers with lots of twists and turns.
The plot is always pushing forward, driving the reader to keep turning pages, but at the same time, it’s easy to put down for a few hours and then pick up again without losing your train-of-thought.The plot here revolves around young Matt Hunter who, in just the first few pages, accidentally kills another guy while at a college frat party.
Matt can't believe ill of his wife despite the evidence and he begins a long, desperate journey to get to the truth.As always, Mr. Coben does not skimp on the plot twists.
There were parts in this book where I needed to revisit earlier sections to fully connect with what had been written.
The book includes several characters but these are well written and developed.
At no time do you lose connection with the characters and wonder who they are.
This symmetry between the start and the end of the book is a lovely twist in my opinion.
The other twist I loved was for the die hard Harlan Coben fans there is a rather cheeky reference to his Myron Bolitar books.Altogether this is a well written exciting book.
Harlan Coben confuses me, and not in necessarily a good way.
I was concurrently reading two of his books Drop Shot, one of a series of books revolving around sports agent Myron Bolitar and The Innocent one of his random books of violence and mayhem.
I personally am having a hard time finishing The Innocent,I keep putting it aside for other books.
I guess I'm glad I only paid 75 cents for it because I am not quite positive I am ever gonna get around to finishing it.
I will definitely be reading more of the Myron Bolitar books though, those are great!
Harlan Coben é mestre em voltas e reviravoltas e, uma vez mais, esta característica ficou vincada neste livro. Com personagens fortes e um enredo bem construído, assistimos à vida de Matt Hunter, um ex-condenado que cometeu homicídio involuntário, e à sua reintegração na sociedade. Mas uma série de acontecimentos e crimes vão persegui-lo, bem como abalar a relação com a sua mulher, Olivia. Confesso que o final foi um pouco rebuscado, mas muita ação e suspense até à última página.
Very good mystery, good plotline, and characters who you have to feel for. Good guy gets into a bit of bad luck and meets many bad people. Some even who would appear good are really bad. All the while the reader doesn't know what to believe or what's going to happen next. Hooks, twists, and turns abound. The action is emotion-packed and non-stop, to the point that none of the main characters get any sleep for days, and therefore neither do readers trying to reach resolution.
Wow!! This was my first book by Harlan Coben and it will not be my last. Karin Slaughter turned me on to Coben and I am not disappointed in the least. I LOVED this book - I was captivated until the very end, and there were TONS of plot twists, but not soap-operaesque. I highly recommend this book to murder-mystery lovers, and I can't wait to go back to the library to pick up some more of Harlan Coben's books!
Já há muito tempo que não lia um livro de Harlan Coben e não pude deixar de me sentir surpreendida com o seu talento para... bem, surpreender. Mais uma história muito bem construída, onde o início não revela nada do que se vai passar e é impossível tecer conjeturas, até um final com revelações surpreendentes.
A minha opinião em: http://marcadordelivros.blogspot.pt/2...
Wow, that was a great book. I read it in one day. I have only read one other book by Coben. Great thriller. Highly recommend.
