https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22135.Culture_and_Imperialism
Edward Said makes one of the strongest cases ever for the aphorism, "the pen is mightier than the sword." This is a brilliant work of literary criticism that essentially becomes political science.
Culture and Imperialism demonstrates that Western imperialism's most effective tools for dominating other cultures have been literary in nature as much as political and economic.
He traces the themes of 19th- and 20th-century Western fiction and contemporary mass media as weapons of conquest and also brilliantly analyzes the rise of oppositional indigenous voices in the literatures of the "colonies." Said would argue that it's no mere coincidence that it was a Victorian Englishman, Edward G.
Bulwer-Lytton, who coined the phrase "the pen is mightier .
It is basically a book that focuses on how imperialism and colonialism affected and was presented in the writing of British authors, mainly in the 18th,19th, and 20th centuries; all the while showing how such events shaped, mostly, British and French literature.“No one today is purely one thing.
But its worst and most paradoxical gift was to allow people to believe that they were only, mainly, exclusively, white, or Black, or Western, or Oriental.”The main take of the book comes from what has been said by many historians and political scientists, the present is still being affected by the effects imperialism had on the world.
Edward Said’s  Culture and Imperialism  employs a “contrapuntal” reading strategy by which he asserts the needs to examine texts from the perspectives of both colonized and colonizer.
To read the complicity and construction of imperial ideology in British, U.S. and French literature is not to dismiss the literature of unworthy of analysis but to suggest the need for the complexity of our analysis and examination of literature in relationship to empire.
Spatiality is central to the ways in which Said identifies the relationship of the texts to imperialist ideologies.
He analyses Verdi's opera Aida as an example of his thesis on the Imperialising nature of western culture because of factors like the fact that Verdi didn't present a thoroughly accurate version of Egyptian society in the opera.
It doesn't matter that Bohemia is landlocked, art doesn't have to conform to reality and this kind of looseness with the facts certainly isn't unique to western portrayals of colonies.
Reading this you would think that Said has no idea that the phenomenon of Imperialism has occurred all over the world in every culture throughout history.
The prototypical modern realistic novel is Robinson Crusoe, and certainly not accidentally it is about a European who creates a fiefdom for himself on a distant, non-European island."If you wonder why a white person shooting innocents is "one crazy isolated incident", where as if the shooter is someone of color or with an Arabic-sounding name is immediately labeled "terrorist", this book is for you.
It lays the foundation for how the West has justified its relentlessly violent relationship to Arab countries (other than those it can exploit such as Saudi Arabia) and how a nativist, racist like Drumpf could become President on the heels of Obama.
Maybe even more relevant to the discourse of our times than when it was written.
Texts are not finished objects.Foucault's discourse is systems of thoughts composed of ideas, attitudes, courses of action, beliefs and practices that systematically construct the subjects and the worlds of which they speak.
Perhaps the best conception of the critic’s worldliness can be found in a passage from a twelfth-century Saxon monk called Hugo of St Victor which Said uses more than once:The man who finds his homeland sweet is still a tender beginner; he to whom every soil is as his native one is already strong; but he is perfect to whom the entire world is as a foreign land.
While imperialism is: “Now we (the colonizer) own you (the colonized), your land and we will be exploiting your economic resources to our benefit using culture and language alongside nuanced force.
We discretely think and want you to think that we are a superior racial group that is intellectually blessed and would like to help you by making you more like us”.Culture and language are very powerful tools, Said demonstrates over and over how western imperialism uses the written word to dominate other nations and send some into near obliteration.
This book, more than anything I've read in my life, offers a profound statement about why its important to exhume the writings and works of the politically marginal, the dispossessed and the displaced.That's a project which has arguably become one of if not the dominant goals of the humanities in our age.
His influence in the academic world is, in many ways, almost too large to quantify.Said emerges in this, as in his other work, as one of the most erudite, sophisticated, and (perhaps most importantly) profoundly humane thinkers of the past century.
Rooted in literature, this book looks at the history around the works (though not in as extreme a detail as Orientalism and analyses it.
When it goes to far, it can tend to be annoying (for example, while Aida is a brilliant example of imperialist orientalising a culture, and the history around it are interesting, it too specifically points to the cultural circumstances as being the reason that Aida came out as it was (ie: a specific attempt by Verdi) rather than influencing the attitudes indirectly, which is a stronger argument both for Aida and also for the concept), but when it isn't exaggerating, it is clever and helpful.
This brought forth the realization that it would have to take an American a "personal interest" to choose to read "something else." Edward Said’s reasoning may have developed some resentment in the way that the remnants of colonial and imperial ways of thinking are likely to still be present among us, and could even be within us as "receivers" of information.
I could not help thinking about what Edward Said would make of social media today: Would he perhaps have thought that an app like twitter only reinforces the regulation of public discussion and mainstream culture?
وكأنّ التّراثَ «مُلْكٌ» يُنقَلُ كما هو، بالوراثة من الخلَف إلى السَّلَف.إنّها ثقافةٌ تهمِل العقلَ، وتُعنى بـ «النّفس» وحدها.هل يصحُّ، إذاً، أن نطلِق على هذه الثّقافة اسم «الثقافة النّفسيّة»؟ أين إذاً، البحث؟ أين العقل والاستبصار؟ـ 7 ـيعرف جميع المعنيين أنّ التاريخ الثّقافيّ العربيّ عرف حركاتٍ كثيرة في مختلف الميادين، وبخاصّةٍ الشعر والفكر، لمناهضة الاتّباع والتّوكيد على الإبداع.لكنّ شهوة القتل، لم تصل في هذا التّاريخ كلِّه إلى ما وصَلَت إليه اليوم: ممارسة القتل بأشكاله كلّها، كما لو أنّه الطّريقُ الأكثر استقامةً وكمالاً.وفوق ذلك تُسمّى هذه الممارسة معارضة.
Edward Said es todo lo que está bien en este mundo (y en la crítica literaria, tbh).
Then again, working in international development where we teach them brown folks how to wash their hands and defecate in a more civilized manner in exchange for food made in USA and human rights, gets you a little fascinated with imperialist ideology and colonial practice, doesn’t it.Said’s Culture and Imperialism” (1993) is kind of a sequel to his earlier book, now a classic, ‘Orientalism’ (1978).
Like, yeah, culture plays a central role in maintaining and confirming power/ hegemonic ideology, imperialist or otherwise.
Showing, kind of, how the novel implicitly reconfirms empire and imperialist ideology, sometimes less explicit (Austen) sometimes more so (Conrad).
said does a brilliant job of revealing the ways that empire is overtly and covertly portrayed in the arts (primarily literature) from the late 1700s onward.
there are issues here and there with disorganization, bombardment of ideas, obscurity, and repetition, but they are eminently forgivable given the scope of what said is trying to address.
letting things sprawl that way at risk of biting off more than one can chew often generates the most interesting and thought-stimulating reading, so you won't find me complaining for one.the point is not to concur with said's every conclusion - he essentially says as much himself.
أرهقني الكتاب و أستنزف قوتي..إدوارد سعيد أنت مذهل!صدر كتاب الثقافة و الإمبريالية سنة 1978 كامتداد لكتاب الإستشراق و كإسهام في بلورة خط نقدي جديد سيعرف لاحقا بالنقد ما بعد الكولونيالي.يرى إدوارد سعيد أن الاستعمار السياسي و العسكري كان مسبوقا و متزامنا مع خطاب ثقافي سانده و دافع عنه بل ووفر له الشرعية أيضا حيث أسهمت الثقافة بكل عناصرها في تعزيز مشروع التوسع الإمبريالي و صيانته حيث يربط سعيد بين ظهور و صعود الرواية بالتحديد و توسع الإمبراطورية من خلال دراسته لعدد من الروايات لعل أبرزها قلب الظلام لكونراد و الغريب و الطاعون لكامو و آمال عريضة لديكنز.استوقفتني بالتحديد القراءة الجديدة التي يقترحها سعيد لرواياتي الغريب و الطاعون لكامو.
في الجامعة عندنا كما في المدارس الفرنسية تطرح رؤية واحدة رسمية حول كامو الكاتب المثقف الحامل لهم الوجود الإنساني و لم يتجرأ أحدهم يوما عن طرح أسئلة حرجة حول موقفه المساند للاحتلال الفرنسي و معارضته لاستقلال الجزائر.

Thật tiếc khi đọc quyển này trước "Đông Phương Luận", khi mà nó được xem như phần nối dài tư tưởng của Said trong ĐPL (chính Said cũng nói qua như vậy).Điểm thú vị nhất trong cuốn sách, có lẽ là việc tác giả dùng rất nhiều những dẫn chứng về văn học, từ cổ điển đến hiện đại, để diễn giải mối quan hệ bá quyền giữa "mẫu quốc" phương Tây (chủ yếu là Anh và Pháp) và những nước thuộc địa của nó, qua đó chứng minh sự xâm lấn và "thực dân hóa" về mặt bản sắc đối với những dân tộc bị trị.
The central question of Culture and Imperialism-- one that Said is unable to answer, and one that nags anyone who loves literature but has a conscience-- is how can we reconcile a brilliant literary vision with the imperialist leanings and practice?What I love about Said is that he provides no easy excuses for himself or for anyone else.
And, unlike legions of French postmodernists, he has a keen eye for literary and cultural issues but recognizes that the battlefield of culture is decidedly secondary to the actual battlefield.
When Said died several years ago, we lost not only a great critic and writer, but one of the last thinkers who was willing to tackle the big global issues.
The subject of the book is obvious from the title, but the book also offers a trenchant critique of nativist nationalism.
Drawing on Fanon, Said argues that nationalism might serve as a mobilizing force during the war of liberation but unless it develops a social and political vision in its evolution toward liberation, it will ossify into mere nativism.
Said's analysis of empire's cultural appendages, and the responses of the colonized are original, but unfortunately there is little that is original in his chapter on America.
For a superior analysis of Conrad's prophetic "Heart of Darkness", I'd recommend Sven Lindqvist's "Exterminate All the Brutes".
This was an unexpected pleasure, as I'd never read Said before and was fearful of drowning in jargon.
Pleasantly catholic in his tastes, he finds merit in authors as diverse as Kipling and Achebe.
There was a little too much of Frantz Fanon for me, but tidbits I especially liked included a brief discussion of the fabulousness, erudition, and extinction of philology-trained scholars like Erich Auerbach; his analysis of A Passage to India; a tantalizing mention of "the professionalization of intellectual life" which I wish had been more extensive; and his calling bullshit on Fouad Ajami.
Culture and Imperialism is an expansion for the first book called Orientalism, in several respect Edward Said, depict the Press publications of AL Intifada, and several things that relate to the middle eastern questions. Here Edward Said uses a lot of philosophical conceptions such as the one Gramci, and some of Literature figures like CONRAD and Jane Austen. In fact Edward Said, is a real professional when it comes to such concept of Orientalism.
This book certainly has its problems and I don't agree with all of Said's arguments as breathlessly as I did when I first read it, but considering he was one of the first people to say these things, I still think it's pretty amazing. This book was as important to the way I think about literature as _Midnight's Children_, and that's saying a lot.
I rarely enjoy reading class assignments. However, this one plus "On Western Terrorism" by Noam Chomsky and Andre Vltchek were somewhat enlightening.Didn't read the whole books, only a few chapters from each. As for me, both kinda make one whole book for they have the same ideas.
Definitely a must-read
One major negative point about this book is that Edward Said seems to have an exalted view of literature; especially Conrad's 'Heart of Darkness' and Kipling's 'Kim' and EM Forsters 'Passage To India'.
He barely mentions Arabic literature , especially the Quran, and its role in shaping the culture of Middle Eastern countries.
As with Bernard Lewis; he identifies an oft-forgotten fact that nationalism was a legacy of the colonial empire and his most cogent point is that because of Imperialism; people began to view themselves exclusively as either 'White', 'Pakistani,' or 'Indian', and that a self-identity derived from a geographical border is stupid as well as destructive.
In Culture and Imperialism, Edward Said argues that dominant cultures of imperialistic powers are connected through strong ideological ties to their nation.
The framework for such arguments revolve around the definition of the word “culture,” which Said asserts as encompassing all practices of pleasure, which include but are not exclusive to “the arts of description, communication, and representation that have relative autonomy from economic, social, and political realms.” (xi) It is in this loosely constructed definition that one finds issues with Said’s analysis.
One of the richest books in content you will ever read. Full of insights and references. A very illuminating work. A must read.
Said concentrates on literary texts, particularly the novel, to expound on this connection.
Reactionary notions of inferior “Others” as well as the acquisition of colonies are presented as part of the natural order of things and are therefore legitimized.In Jane Austen’s Mansfield Park for instance, to cite some of the works surveyed by Said, “references to the protagonist’s colonial possessions give him his wealth, occasion his absences, fix his social status at home and abroad, and make possible his values.” The colonial order, the novel thus suggests to its readers, provides the condition of possibility for domestic wealth and bliss.
In this book, Said not only lays out his methodologies more explicitly, but also examines a wide variety of texts and their relationship to society and culture.
Such culturally imposed forms of imperialism are exerted over wide expanses of discursive terrain that overlap, contradict, and suport each other.
In other words, the relationship between imperialism and culture is far more complex than many either/or stances taken by scholars and political theorists.
The last part examines the relationship between academia and textual critique to the political world of the 90s (much of which still holds true today).
