https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/545951.Death_Comes_for_the_Archbishop
I'm only halfway through it but I don't care how it ends; every chapter is so complete in itself, every word such unmitigated pleasure that I would be stunned – absolutely floored – if Cather somehow fumbled the ball in the next 150 pages.
A writer so humble, her words so transparent, that she seems to disappear behind the curtain of the text, her elegant shadow barely visible in its folds.
At age twenty, hearing Nina Simone sing 'Black is the Colour of My True True Love's Hair', I felt my heart couldn't contain that song; it must consume me.
Can't believe I hadn't heard from this author yet, but thanks to Goodreads I have, will certainly explore her works, as recommended to me by the good Goodreads friends here, thanks!Already an interesting detail: I read Blood Meridian of McCarthy recently which is staged in the same time and area as this book.
Both books beautiful.
While McCarthy's book is dark and full of blood, this book is full of thought and quiet beauty.....
I just realized I read these two books shortly after each other...
Two young French priests newly out of the seminary, in France, where they first met, ( destined to become bishops of the Catholic Church, in the New World , one an Archbishop ) became close friends until death struck.
Willa Cather brings her considerable talent, to this book and gives poignancy to what could have been a rather dry , dull story of these dedicated , brave, tireless clergymen , working for God. Later both are sent to the primitive New Mexican frontier town of Santa Fe the capital, Jean as its bishop and Joseph the Vicar, where the hostile inhabitants despise the new rulers, yet the mainly French priests there are well respected...
Death Comes for the Archbishop, Willa Cather Death Comes for the Archbishop is a 1927 novel by American author Willa Cather. It concerns the attempts of a Catholic bishop and a priest to establish a diocese in New Mexico Territory.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز هفتم فوریه سال 2017 میلادیعنوان: مرگ سراغ اسقف اعظم میآید؛ نویسنده: ویلا کادر (کتر)؛ مترجم: سلما رضوانجو؛ تهران، نشر شورآفرین، 1393، در 275 ص، شابک: 9786006955599؛ قرن 20 مویلا کاتر (1873 تا 1947 میلادی)، نویسنده امریکایی برنده ی جایزه ی پولیتزر
It concerns the attempts of a Catholic bishop and a priest to establish a diocese in New Mexico Territory.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز هفتم فوریه سال 2017 میلادیعنوان: مرگ سراغ اسقف اعظم میآید؛ نویسنده: ویلا کادر (کتر)؛ مترجم: سلما رضوانجو؛ تهران، نشر شورآفرین، 1393، در 275 ص، شابک: 9786006955599؛ قرن 20 مویلا کاتر (1873 تا 1947 میلادی)، نویسنده‌ امریکایی برنده‌ ی جایزه ی پولیتزر ستایشگر غم و نومیدی ست، ایشان بیش‌تر شهرت خود را از طریق خلق رمان‌هایی به دست آورده اند که: به زندگی نخستین مهاجران اروپایی ساکن در ایالات غربی امریکا میپرداخت، و از شیوه های زندگی در دشتهای بزرگ حکایتها داشت.
«مرگ سراغ اسقف اعظم میآید» آنطور که هارولد بلوم، منتقد امریکایی میگوید: جاه‌ طلبانه ترین اثر کاتر است.
Highlight here is the incredible depiction of two missionaries who undertake the megaharsh task of converting the Navajos of New Mexico to Catholicism.
It describes what happens when a new policy, or way of life, is instilled into people who are far away from the Old World.
There are little vignettes of savagery, of holy manifestation (including a very succinct telling of San Diego and his visitation from the Virgin Mary), of hypocrites (of course!!!), etc.
It is a vivid book, full of life & imagination.
Willa Cather never visited the world she so valiantly and expertly writes about in such poetic demeanor.
The Archbishop of the title Jean Latour can only be Jean-Baptiste Lamy, the first Bishop of New Mexico, and his vicar (and later Bishop in Colorado) Joseph Vaillant can only be Joseph Macheboeuf.The introduction by A.S. Byatt makes her debt to writings both by and about these men clear, but the book is still an extraordinary evocation of a lost world.My only criticism is that the characterisation is a little too black and white - a more modern writer would probably have been more critical of the Church and less willing to accept descriptions of miracles at face value.
Cather's sympathy for the plight of the local native Americans does demonstrate a modern progressive attitude, and many of the stories she relates are extraordinary and vividly described without showiness or melodrama.
But the writing won me over, slowly, with sentences likeWherever the footing was treacherous, it was helped out by little hand-holds, ground into the stone like smooth mittens.Smooth mittens.
Every once in awhile the elegance will shock you: Elsewhere the sky is the roof of the world; but here the earth was the floor of the sky.Travelling with Eusabio [a Navajo:] was like travelling with the landscape made human.The novel advances slowly and steadily, which is how it should be read.
(I think it would be an enjoyable audiobook; not all books are.) It's a novel of accretions, fittingly like the geological formations in the landscape Cather repeatedly describes.
Father Joseph, Father Letour, their many friends and acquaintances who built solid and strong relationships with them over the years, and their country.
Their beautiful country.Father Joseph and Father Letour, both originally from France, were sent to the land of New Mexico shortly after it had been annexed.
Although the characters are fictional in this book, the life of Father Letour who became a Bishop and then Archbishop closely parallels the timeline highlights of Father Jean Baptiste Lamy, the real-life priest who became the first Bishop of New Mexico and later, the Archbishop.

Although I have read this book before, that was long enough ago that this was essentially like reading the book for the first time.I believe this is the fifth of Cather's books that I have read (this both the first and the most recent) and confirms my appreciation for her skills in presenting the landscapes of the American West, the developing American way of life as it pushes west, and the varying and various peoples who lived on and from the land.
Though I'm not going to rush out and devour everything else she's written, I thoroughly enjoyed reading Death Comes for the Archbishop.It's a loosely structured collection of anecdotes that chronicles the missionary activities of two French Catholic priests - Jean Latour (the "archbishop" of the title) and his close friend and vicar, Joseph Vaillant - in the newly established diocese of Santa Fe. The year is 1848, when the US has taken the territory from Mexico, and the spiritual condition of the region's priests and parishioners is deplorable.
170).Probably the most difficult part in reading this book was empathizing with Latour or Vaillant.
For a good reason: It's a neither-fish-not-fowl book.
The storytelling mode makes the book feel less like an indigestible wodge of starchy glop, the unhappy fate of 
Religious subjects of novels are more often in the Bernadette mode, sadly, since there is little in dramatic storytelling more engrossing than the journey inward to spiritual revelation.The events from the factual Archbishop Lamy's life that Cather chose to dramatize are among the best: The horrors committed in religion's name at Acoma stand out for me.
The ending of that tale is very satisfying.If you haven't ever read this book, please do, it's a beaut.
3.5/5 Once before he had been carried out of the body thus to a place far away. He had turned a corner and come upon an old woman with a basket of yellow flowers; sprays of yellow sending out a honey-sweet perfume. Mimosa - but before he could think of the name he was overcome by a feeling of place, was dropped, cassock and all, into a garden in the south of France where he had been sent one winter in his childhood... It's rare these days in reading that I'll come across a childhood thought or f
I am now determined to keep the name Sally Mara Sturman in mind for reasons of artistic acquisition, as well as a far off dream of a book of my own that needs favorable presenting to the world.The childhood experience is Brian Jacques' Redwall series, and the key binding factor is the wealth of sense that strongly flows without ever overwhelming.
What was planted then and sprouted now is my love for rich simplicity, lofty in its appreciation of landscape imagery and earthily enthusiastic over the descriptions of food both gourmet and plucked.I would like to leave that precious feeling at that, but I must say that my issues with the book can be summed up with this:
What can I say about this book? It was beautiful, it was peaceful, it was perfect. A book I will re-read periodically, when I need to leave the world behind.There is no real plot other than the lives of two French priests who come to Santa Fe in 1850 to create a Catholic mission to serve the Indians and Mexicans. Father LaTour and Father Vaillant will be riding their mules in my head forever, spreading kindness.Beautiful, peaceful, perfect.
In short, I will carry it with me as long as I have the ability and sanity to read and understand.An Introduction:This book is about two ‘pioneering French missionaries’ and their missions in New Mexico.
Along with the landscapes; some revealing reflections accompany us – I specially loved the one in which the Bishop compares Indian way of living in the nature and the modern people’s way of living in the nature.A worthy long quote:It was the Indian manner to vanish into the landscape, not to stand out against it.
This book was so amazing well written-Willa Cather is at her best here. Each chapter was more like a painting than just words on a page. Beautiful and evocative setting of the southwest. The relationship between Bishop Latour and Father Vaillant, beginning when they were young men headed to seminary, slowly evolves along with their faith in God (Catholicism is beside the point here) until death comes for them both. The Mexican peoples and native American tribes are wonderfully portrayed, one aches at the brutality of forcing the Navaho from their land, which was thankfully restored to them.
The friendship between two priests who leave their native, beloved France to become the church leaders in the new territory with the remote Santa Fe as their destination.It feels good to open a book that was written in the 1800s.
It feels good to catch the melody in the prose, and capture the essence of the gentle souls of the characters.The history of New Mexico and Santa Fe in particular was a delight to read for me as a non-resident.This isn't a mind-grabbing, soul-ripping book with high-chase cowboy dramas or political battles reigning on the parade.
Death Comes For the Archbishop is a book that appears to be about almost nothing but is really about a lot.The novel addresses the lives of two French missionary priests in the American southwest.
I love Robinson’s book and would wager she’s a Cather fan because these two excellent novels share quite a bit between them.
This novel was different than I expected: I guess I thought all Cather’s work involved intrepid frontier women or something and I stumble upon a book about two priests wandering around New Mexico.
The land and all that it bore they treated with consideration; not attempting to improve it, they never desecrated it."Cather's level of environmental consciousness, there and elsewhere (the description of the setting of the Archbishop's cathedral was similarly evocative), and her understanding of the native American relationship to nature, seems so prescient (and so beautiful), writing from 1927.
What she didn't give me, what I wanted to see, was some level of consciousness and conflict among those whites - and the two priests in particular - that the colonization of the land and the souls there was wrong.
Willa Cather's Death Comes for the Archbishop nearly did the same for me in regards to the Roman Catholic Church--an organization so bilious, corrupted, and scandal-ridden these days it would take a miracle for them to make a proselyte out of me.
Indeed, Death Comes for the Archbishop is a sort of miracle.
It strikes one that the inhabitants of the Southwest--Indians, Mexicans, Americans, Europeans--are rendered nearly without prejudice by Cather and by Father Latour, though Americans and protestants generally get it pretty bad.
That early decision leads to places and relationships the young man probably couldn't have dreamed of, but it also leads to a life well-lived.I am an acknowledged Willa Cather fan and have been eager to read more of her.
While everything I love about Cather's writing, especially her descriptions of place, was in evidence, I was not swept away.
He is a model for fulfilling ones destiny, even if life leads one to unexpected places.To enjoy this book, I found that I had to keep reminding myself that Cather was writing of the mid-19th century and the settling of the American southwest.
Read my review here, another edition: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Beautiful!
Death Comes for the Archbishop is a beautiful story, beautifully told.
In spite of its heavily religious themes and imagery, this is a very good story and well worth the reader’s time.
The book I finished just before starting this classic was Christopher Hitchens’ God Is Not Great and this made for an interesting juxtaposition.
It’s impossible not to empathize with the devout Bishop Latour whose story this is (even for a nonbeliever like myself).
Cather tells her story with great compassion, an eye for detail, and a profound sense of the Good to be found in people of all sorts.
Death Comes for the Archbishop is a quick read in which Willa Cather writes in lyrical prose and renders descriptions that conjure up the Southwest as clearly as a painting by Georgia O'Keefe.
The Archbishop is surely a man to be admired and respected, but it is the much simpler Father Joseph who captured my heart and true admiration...a sentiment with which his friend and "superior" would not have disagreed.Cather has a feel for people and places and, without embellishing them, she gives them all the depth and breadth that they would have in real life.
Absolutely stunning!
I have heard there is a tremendously moving death scene near - as would be expected - the end of this book.
Though I am of the firm conviction that one should live until one dies I cannot apply this principle, by analogy, to my own reading of this book.
It is possible this lack of character development is intended to represent his selflessness, but if so that is a weak strategy when writing a book that I would want to read and finish.
Dirty socks like little deaths.
Daily deaths at the hands of feet.
Although it took me awhile to read this, I enjoyed it, especially the beautiful portrayal of the great plains' landscape in that period.
This was essentially a coming of age story of unrequited love, and the idyllic Eden in the great plains was somewhat reminiscent of a few moments I've had in Kansas.
I imagine Cather had romanticized her own experience to some degree, but there was a great detail and authentic language of the time and people of all ages.
This is my first Cather book and it made me want to wander in Nebraska again, kicking through the fields looking for pheasant or otherwise.
I loved this story, and I can't exactly pinpoint why.
It is so lovely and lyrical.
Or possibly it's the two priests who laid claim to my heart as men I wish I could know.
I read this again as a group read, and I was able to savor parts even more this time and pay more attention to the priests interactions with the native Americans and the local Mexican population.
These priests were so cognizant of the need to respect the ways and ancient beliefs of some of the natives of the diocese.
My favorite by Cather; read this aloud when we did our family Grand Circle trip, especially the part in New Mexico. Such a gentle, quiet story. I know that my children were not touched by it as I am/was, but I'm still glad they know about it. It is a fictionalized account of the real life of the first archbishop of the western territory, a simple, saintly man who lived his faith without fuss or fanfare. The book is actually soothing to read, but I think it takes a certain maturity to fully appreciate it.
The death that comes for Archbishop Jean Latour in 1888 is a welcome one, enabling him to look back on almost forty years of service, since being appointed the first Bishop of Santa Fe in the newly acquired territory of New Mexico in 1850.
Cather describes a land that is still recognizable, even in its local detail, but she distills its essence in a purer form—no small achievement for a plains-dweller from Nebraska!
But her window was simply her humanity; the stories in this book (and for the most part they are stories) move, intrigue, or amuse the reader because they are not merely tales of a place, but of people in that place.
