https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/368124.Philosophy_of_Existence
I was thrilled to read Jaspers' short book Philosophy of Existence.
Moreover, philosophy is different from both science and religion, yet is bound to both.
A key concept in Jaspers philosophizing is The Encompassing, particularly in terms of "modes", which forms our awareness of being, underlying our scientific and common-sense knowledge, given expression in the myths and rituals of religion.
There are three modes to the encompassing: existence (Dasein), consciousness-in-general, and spirit.
Existence, consciousness in general, and spirit, along with the worlds corresponding to them, comprise the immanent modes of the encompassing.
In the most basic way, the thing I have against Jaspers and specifically this book is that he feels like a philosophical defeatist.
He states, "By using this term [philosophizing philosophieren] Jaspers stresses the fact that philosophy is an activity , a movement of thought that knows no end and produces no set of doctrines, theories, or even concepts." (pg.
Well, I spent most of my time in the section labeled truth, and for a philosopher that declares Communication to be the aim of philosophy, it feels that he throws the words out there without really considering their implications.
Jaspers divides the work into three parts: Being, Truth, and Reality.
Later chapters, while still good, are somewhat vague or oversimple if the reader is a little more conversant with contemporary philosophy.
This is doubtless a result of the brevity of the work, and it is perhaps unrealistic to expect greater rigor of thought in what is ultimately the publication of a series of lectures.
That being said, Jaspers avoids some of the errors into which Sartre falls in his lecture on existentialism.
Philosophy of Existence is a brief elucidation of ideas that neither pretends to wholly explain those ideas nor misrepresents them.
I'll start to give up on understanding it, and right then, as my mind recoils from it, there's a transcendent moment where I get it.
Which I think may be his point.
I think what he's saying is that only when you realize that you can't know truth or reality do you catch a glimpse of it.
There's a lot of stuff about transcendence and Existenz.
And how all being is unity and as humans we experience it through Existenz.
What is Existenz?
Well, it's the transcendent mode of the Encompassing of Subjectivity.
It emphasized the task of philosophy that for a time had been almost forgotten: to catch sight of reality at its origin and to grasp it through the way in which I, in thought, deal with myself - in inner action. they searched for the hidden reality; they wanted to know what was knowable; and they thought that by understanding themselves they could arrive at the foundation of their being.
"There is an ancient saying that in the sciences a little knowledge leads away from faith, but that complete knowledge leads back to it.....We can apply the saying about the sciences to philosophy: a little philosophy leads away from reality, but complete philosophy leads back to it." Jaspers
i think that this book is very useful for my treasue.
