https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/298323.Discourses_of_Brigham_Young
In an attempt to understand Mormonism better, I've been looking at the edges recently -- the Deseret alphabet pleases me enough, and Under the Banner of Heaven was fascinating.
More than anything, I suppose, the Mormons I meet consistently rank among the most fascinating and adaptive people I know.
Smith seems himself not uninteresting:Come on!
for I will come out on top at last.
I have more to boast of than ever any man had.
I am the only man that has ever been able to keep a whole church together since the days of Adam.
I boast that no man ever did such a work as I.
Only 100 pages left! This book has taken me a couple of years to read because I only read a few pages at a time. It's packed with the wisdom and opinions of Brigham Young, the first Governor of Utah, and second Prophet of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints. He also happnes to be my 3rd great-grandfather, so it speaks to me and helps me want to be a better person who would please him.
This was the FIRST official Mormon book I ever read.
Interestingly enough they (the Hutchings) leant me this book.
I was not given a copy of the Book of Mormon by them which surprises me as I look back on it.
I read it well before I read The Book of Mormon.
Like him or not, Brigham Young was one tough man and was exactly what the Mormons needed to survive after Joseph Smith's death.I disagree with Young's conclusions about the Apostasy of the Church but it was worthwhile to read his POV.
This book is amazing. When Brigham Young describes the gospel as truth, in any form, it's the wake up call the church needs. We get so into our tunnel vision and we only look for truth within the scriptures but truth is everywhere. And as Brigham says, the people who bring us that truth are Latter-Day Saints, whether they know it or not. We need to realize without seeking out truth from other sources we will never have a full and complete knowledge of the gospel.
I have owned this book for nearly a decade and always wanted to read it but never had a strong enough desire to do so.
I wish that desire was stronger a decade ago.
Reading the sermons of Brigham Young gave me an insight to him that I hadn't seen before.
Brigham Young had such a way to briefly and powerfully teach and testify of the doctrines of the gospel.
The one hard thing was in actually reading the book.
I would recommend this book to those wanting to get to know Brigham Young better and the doctrines he taught.
I adore Brigham Young! He tells it how it is. Great parenting resource. A spectrum of solid counsel, some of which is more pioneer-appropriate (would like mothers not to scrub their children's faces so roughly) but vast majority is true today as it was then. Another book I read and re-read!
What a wonderful book. Wisdom in every page. He reaffirms the decision I made in 1962 to join the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints. An inspired man. Very straight forward and clear advice and doctrine.
I have slowly been reading this book for the past few months and have loved it. I love not only how he presents the doctrine but his straight-forward manner of teaching that covers all aspects of spiritual and temporal matters.
What I "read" was actually a download of the audiobook from: http://www.ldsaudio.com/shop/audio_it...AUTHOR(S): Brigham YoungNARRATED BY: Nathan K. WrightRUNNING TIME: 1360 Min.Audiobook MP3 22h 39m 45sec Lectures LDS Nonfiction 04/23/07
President Young tells it like it is, and it is awesome.
A majority of what can be considered truth and correctly recorded from the journal of discourses is found herein.
This was a great book I think he was a very strong and courages leader who cared for the members of the church and I think he was a wonderful prophet
I love his teachings. This makes for a good reference.
This is an excellent reference book for those of us who are a little intimidated by the entire Journal of Discourses. It contains quotes from Brigham Young on a wide variety of topics.
Softcover.
