https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17281768-great-ghost-stories
I wasn't going to read this book until we were snug in our cabin next week (there's nothing like outdoor forest night noise to add ambiance to a collection of ghost stories) but it kept calling to me whenever I'd pass by it on the shelves so I had to.
Joseph Lewis French did not author any of the stories in this book; he was more like a collator, putting together twelve ghostly/supernatural tales in this collection which was published by Dodd Mead in 1918.
ps/ to call these stories "dated" is ridiculous.
As a signpost, the foreword was written by the secretary of the British Society for Psychical Research.The stories in themselves are mostly a lot of fun to read, and you'll run across quite a few interesting authors you're unlikely to stumble over otherwise – Edward Bulwer-Lytton, Mrs. Margaret Oliphant, Fiona MacLoed – as well as a couple, such as Thomas Hardy, that you wouldn't normally identify with this kind of subject.
The best piece, not surprisingly, is by E.T.A. Hoffman, "The Deserted House."What I found most interesting, though, is the assumptions behind the roughly contemporary stories (those around the turn of the 20th century): that "ghosts" are real, but not spooky haunts.
I'm guessing these stories all date from the mid-1800s to the early 1900s. If you can place yourself in the period and its way of thinking, they're not bad at all. Some are even creepy by today's standards. I downloaded it free from Amazon.
I know better than to read ghost stories late at night. The thing is, during the day I have enough energy and self control that I don't read ghost stories, and this means that at night, I've used up all my self-denial, so I do read the ghost stories. And then this happens.
The title is misleading because a number of the tales have nothing to do with ghosts, such as THE WERE-WOLF by H.
I found them to be entertaining, nonetheless.I'd only read one of the stories previously, THE HOUSE AND THE BRAIN which I recalled under a different title, THE HAUNTED AND THE HUNTERS.
It opens the book and is definitely a chilling tale.Being public domain stories, they do not feature the brisk pace that may be expected by many modern readers.
Then the tale unfolds, providing a deeper insight into the heart of the story and making the resolutions more compelling.
Dated but a couple good stories.Many of these stories... ok all of them are quite dated but some were ok reads. I did enjoy a couple of them.
Old-timey ghost stories for sure, I love the foreword by a respectable LL.D. People back then believed this stuff for realz. I wasn't scare even once. Not to say that I don't enjoy some of the style, but it was somewhat of a let down, I've read tons of ghost stories from the likes of M.R James that were much scarier. One of the highlights was ETA Hoffman, I love his manic style that paints a weird atmosphere for no real purpose other than being a big weirdo.
All these stories were written in the late eighteen hundreds early nineteen hundreds. Book was originally published in 1918, and can only be found in Kindle now. Recognized some of the authors, such as M. R. James,,,but most were new to me. Wasn't only ghost stories, but also, were wolfs, vampires, and such. A well rounded collection of old fashioned horror. There wasn't a bad story in the group, and I have a special appreciation for older literature.
Great ghost/paranormal storiesAll of the stories are worthwhile and different. I especially liked the last one, but that favoritism does not diminish my esteem for and enjoyment of the others. The language is antiquated but added to the charm of the narration of such absurd events.
Loved it!A very good selection of stories. I highly recommend to everyone to buy this book. You shall definitely enjoy it.
