https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/243598.The_Sheltering_Sky
Whereas a tourist generally hurries back home at the end of a few weeks or months, the traveler, belonging no more to one place than to the next, moves slowly, over periods of years, from one part of the earth to another."Before meeting Port Moresby, I always thought of myself as a traveler, but after one particular late night discussion accompanied by inebriation, interrupted by a frolic in an exotic bordello conveniently located nearby, and then reconvened over tankards of yet more alcoholic concoctions, he managed to convince me that I was merely a tourist.
A 30-ish American married couple and a male friend are traveling in the French colonies right after the end of World War II at a time when the US State Department advised people NOT to travel there because of rampant disease and the disintegration of social conditions and of law and order.
(hide spoiler)] He is so obsessed with immersing himself in the travel experience that one night he slides down a hillside used as the local dump and sits there taking in the sights and smells of the garbage and filth.
On the one hand, the "sheltering sky" is the thin veneer of civilization that Westerners have used to convince themselves of the orderliness of human affairs, not to mention their own superiority.
On the other hand, the "sheltering sky" is every self-delusion humans employ to keep themselves from the horrors of an indifferent universe.
The book gradually strips away these veneers, these self-delusions, until the raw facts of existence themselves are exposed.
In a way this book reminds me (perhaps strangely) of Moby Dick, where Melville also explores the theme of self-delusion--how necessary self-delusion is to our basic sanity, but how horribly it can lead us astray.
There are Train journeys and bus rides through stunning but harsh landscapes with deserts, valleys, and rugged terrain where the unrelenting heat of the sun is a constant factor during the days, but it's when staying in the small towns where the reel problems start to arise, with general bickering, kit's uncomfortable mood towards their surrounding taking hold and Port disappearing into the night, as couples go it only seems likely they will drift further apart with no signs of happiness on the horizon.
SPOILERS “Death is always on the way, but the fact that you don’t know when it will arrive seems to take away from the finiteness of life. It’s that terrible precision that we hate so much. But because we don’t know, we get to think of life as an inexhaustible well. Yet everything happens only a certain number of times, and a very small number, really. How many more times will you remember a certain afternoon of your childhood, some afternoon that’s so deeply a part of your being that you can’t
How many more times will you remember a certain afternoon of your childhood, some afternoon that’s so deeply a part of your being that you can’t even conceive of your life without it?
It is books like this one that make you realize how vast and how small at the same time the world is.
Why should my just enjoying what I've got, without thinking all the time of everything that might go wrong and the end of it all, mean that I don't appreciate it?" It was only after reading this book that dawned on me that it is not about that.
This was taken by none other than the band The Police, to introduce their own work, a song of the same name that recreates a story from The Sheltering Sky. It's an interesting little web - and indicative, I think, of the kind of impact that this book seems to have on people, or at least on those who love it.I did strange things because of this book.
“How fragile we are under the sheltering sky.
A different love triangle exposes different forms of loneliness, madness, love, and existential expats.The thing I love about Bowles is he brings a composer's mind to writing.
It felt very much like I was floating limp and languid in Bowles prose as his hypnotic sentences washed over me and drifted me slowly toward the inevitable end.Most days, I don't feel a real need to read a book twice.
I might need to make an exception for 'The Sheltering Sky'.
Better yet, let's just add them to the plot.But, even though this story takes place in French Africa, and there is a fantastic French word available to describe these complicated gatherings of three.
A writer who refers to all women in his story as girls, and characters who I honestly hate.
Characters who I honestly hate.
Characters who talk like this:Wife: What's the unit of exchange in this different world of yours?Husband: The tear.Wife: It isn't fair, some people have to work very hard for a tear!
Others can have them just for the thinking.Husband: What system of exchange is fair?
Sensual Existentialism in the Sahara 4.5 starsSomeone once had said to her that the sky hides the night behind it, shelters the person beneath from the horror that lies above.Married couple Port and Kit Moresby, in a physically and emotionally distant relationship, are traveling through northern Africa with their friend Tunner. Rejecting America and Europe in post WWII disgust, these "travellers" (not tourists, Port is adamant about the difference) hope to find meaning in the mystery of the Sah
It also doesn't take long for the mood of the inscrutable desert to permeate the travellers.
The descent leaves each person to their own limited devices, an internal struggle and terrifying defeat.Death is always on the way, but the fact that you don't know when it will arrive seems to take away from the finiteness of life.
Tighter, until even the huge grey music of the sea was covered by a greater, darker noise - the roar of nothingness the spirit hears as it approaches the abyss and leans over.This wouldn't be a complete review if I didn't use the descriptor 'hypnotic' when referring to Paul Bowles' writing.
Behind [it] is a vast dark universe, and we're just so small.”I was absolutely hypnotized by Paul Bowles' The Sheltering Sky, a lush and lyrical novel following a married couple and their male friend (they're "travelers," they say, not "tourists") as they wonder aimlessly through the desolation and harshness of the cities and deserts of North Africa shortly after WW II.Within the novel is an affecting allegorical tale of 3 sisters who waited for a prince to join them for tea in the Sahara.
That was how they had their tea in the Sahara.”I intend to read this novel again solely to take the hypnotic journey.
But what gets me is the notion that in this Bowles was somehow being hard-nosed, rejecting romanticism.
It may perhaps be a rejection of a particular romantic notion that salvation via the Essential and the Real are to be found outside civilization (see, for example, Kerouac).
Make no mistake, I'm no apologist for the ills of rampant capitalist consumerism nor some fool lover of the anomie that is corporate life.
If you're going to go to Africa and not get your shots, you're a damn fool.
Rating: A craven, self-preservationistic 2* of fiveBkC8: Tedious twaddle.When I'm right, I'm right.The Book Report: Kit and Port Moresby (get the Australia/New Guinea colonial joke, huh?
So, in time-honored rich-couple-in-over-relationship fashion, they Travel.
(Code of the day for "he's a fag.") I would say "hijinks ensue," but they really, really don't.My Review: Tunner and Kit. Tunner and Port.
Port and Kit. Find me some sexual heat in any of these variations.
Okay, been there done that, even in 1949...sixty-three years ago this wasn't an under-used trope, and by now it's a dreary cliche when used without irony or other meta-element to waft away its corpse-like odor.Books told in dialogue.
Run Away!
The story revolves around the character of Port Moresby, who, in disillusioned response to WWII, rejects America and Europe, leaving NY for Africa with his wife Kit as well as an acquaintance named Tunner, whom they both dislike.Port feels Africa is less marred by war, and aims to spend a long period of time there.
I disliked the double standard throughout the book, e.g. after Port stumbles home from sleeping with a prostitute he’s outraged when he suspects Kit slept with Tunner.
For though Port and Kit's love is brought into this world as a burden, the promise is that the very foreignness of the land is what will bring it to resolution.
Instead, a resolution which leaves the reader as much as Bowles' protagonists haunted by the heaviness of love and chaos of the exotic.
Perhaps what drew me most into this world and its ethos is Bowles' style itself, which matches with unnerving certainty the psychology of his characters to their external circumstance.
This correspondence between psychology and circumstance provides a veritable well of affect, both for the characters and the reader.
Read to see how American civilization frays at the edges beneath that sheltering sky; watch what happens when the so called “traveler” rejects elements not to his liking.We finished reading the novel and discussed it over dinner.
I don’t know whether to call myself a traveler or a tourist, but as I continue to visit other places on the planet and meet people from other cultures I attempt to brook my life filters to learn from them.
And once the sun dries it up, all of it flakes away and “the sheltering sky” cannot shelter them from the emptiness inside them.The main couple, Port and Kit, in their sexless but not entirely loveless marriage, resemble somewhat Paul and Jane’s unorthodox marriage (they only tried sex for about 1.5 year, after which she went on to sleep with women, he mostly with men, but they remained devoted to each other).
Personally, the endless sandy dunes never held much appeal to me but reading this beautifully written book almost convinced me that there was some value in the solitude of Sahara.Like the characters in the meta-story ‘Tea in Sahara’, told to Port by a prostitute, Kit and Port keep looking for some illusive thing, that unspecified perfection that might be behind the next dune.
I rarely don't finish a book.
This is a personal tendency (obsessiveness) which cemented itself during forays into such tomes as Les Miserables (5th grade) and Tess of the D'Urbervilles (10th grade) in which the endeavor seemed like it would be fruitless, and then, ahoy!
Nor did there seem to be much of a story...or if there was one, I couldn't give less of a shit about it.
As Virginia Woolf once wrote, "All old men have their India." I'm going to leave this one to the old men.
Has probably become my favorite book of all time: simultaneously capturing the utter loneliness of existence, and the strange beauty of the desert/and/or the foreign.
I've read almost all of Bowles' other stuff, and some of it comes close to this (especially Let it Come Down), but what comes off as simply cruel in the other work here becomes sublime.
Time does strange things to one's reviews.
So the Paul Bowles character (the man-I don't remember his name now) is friggin' annoying and deserves what he gets.
The other characters are just vehicles and supports to get her to that last page.
Every once in a while you come across a book which is beyond 5 stars. For me it hasn't happened that much. But this is one of them for me. the last one I rated this way was The Road by Cormac McCarthy. This book is mysterious, intriguing, dark, dangerous, exceptional , loving.... and I have to read it again soon to fully take in all of this beautiful story. It made a deep impression.
My sister told me that I was unfair complaining that some books shrink me to the couch and talk the walk.
I think she said something like I knew in the first place what I knew from books.
But I don't want to kill it to stick it under a glass, you know?
I feel I need to look at something bigger than let Port and Kit shut up.Someone once had said to her that the sky hides the night behind it, shelters the person beneath from the horror that lies above.
At times, we're lucky and the book does meet and even surpasses what we expected from it, and at times such as now, it is a disappointment.This story follows three American travellers trotting around North Africa at a period after the Second World War. This book was written (and is also set) before decolonization began and before the Civil Rights Movement in the United States began getting attention, so perhaps it comes as no surprise that some of the characters are deeply anti-semitic and racist, especially the character Mrs. Lyle.
i was all WOW!
or maybe i was all WOWZY WOW WOW after i finished it.
""Because we don't know when we will die, we get to think of life as an inexhaustible well.
Yet everything happens only a certain number of times, and a very small number really.
How many more times will you remember a certain afternoon of your childhood, an afternoon that is so deeply a part of your being that you can't even conceive of your life without it?
Perhaps four, five times more, perhaps not even that.
How many more times will you watch the full moon rise?
“Death is always on the way, but the fact that you don't know when it will arrive seems to take away from the finiteness of life.
It's that terrible precision that we hate so much.
But because we don't know, we get to think of life as an inexhaustible well.
Yet everything happens a certain number of times, and a very small number, really.
How many more times will you remember a certain afternoon of your childhood, some afternoon that's so deeply a part of your being that you can't even conceive of your life without it?
Perhaps four or five times more.
But, three reasons you should read this book, if you haven't:1) If you are an existential atheist, like me: There is no more compelling argument than in the stories of Port and Kit Moresby for how we must create meaning in our lives absent any particular spiritual or religious faith grounding us in the universe.
This 1949 novel is considered by the literati as classic literature that reflects "post-colonial alienation and existential despair." (Quote is from Wikipedia.) Apparently I don't like "existential despair" because I didn't enjoy reading this book.
I suspect that a good many people will read this book and be enthralled by it without once suspecting that it contains a mirror of what is most terrifying and cryptic within the Sahara of moral nihilism, into which the race of man now seems to be wandering blindly.For myself I can say that I was not enthralled by the story.
When you remember reading a book long ago and you remember liking it, trust your instincts.
Read it again.
I loved the exotic, North African setting.
And the always slightly off-balancing love triangle of Port, Kit, and Tunner (what weirdly wonderful names).
Some stop-me sentences, too.
I love stop-me sentences.
I never run them.
In fact, if no one's behind me, I often back up and fail to run them again.
The beauty of writer's writers' writing!So yes: some plot, much characterization, tons of mood, and -- somehow -- sand in your shoes after each reading.
Poor Kit. Lucky reader.
I read this early in my 20s - more than a decade before traveling beyond US soil and 15 years before witnessing the siren call of an African desert. Bowles' fiction is hypnotic, and his strongly written characters seem to have relevance to a reader at any stage in life. But I want to put that theory to the test, so I'm reminding myself now: re-read this book.
It's the 1940s, so one has to contextualize the sometimes awkward/semi-racist descriptions of the "natives." Or if you aren't interested in giving the characters any leeway, that's okay too, but the book works very well as a portrayal of arrogant, neurotic Americans in a hostile, alien world.
At first you might think that you are just witnessing the deterioration of a marriage or at least the complexities of relationships, but those issues become minor compared to the dangers surrounding the travellers.
It plays out very much like a nightmare, and makes for a compelling read to witness the downward spirals of all of the main characters.
What exactly is the author trying to say with this book?
The first half of the book is very different from the second half.
The second half has a completely different style of writing.
French, English and Arabic languages are used; this is done adroitly.
A central theme of the book is the difference between travelers and tourists.
In fact this is why I chose the book, having myself lived in different countries.
There is quite a bit that can be discussed in this book, but I can only give it two stars.
I loved the book.....while at the same time had an aversion to the characters.
I laughed at symbolic sentences such as....."The dining room was unfriendly and formal to a degree which is acceptable only when the service is impeccable; this was not the case here.
I'd break to laugh...."It WAS OUR RICH AMERICANS-- the central characters - who were UNFRIENDLY"......
Oh this book is good - juicy good!
as great as it was, and I related to it from my own travel experiences in the early 70s, I'm guessing that if Paul Bowles wrote this book today, in 2017...a few things 'would' be different.
Oh good, I've been wondering how white people who drink too much might feel about having ill-advised sex with each other.Wait a minute though, because this one seems like it's taking rather a big swerve into existential horror here, isn't it?
I've linked you to the meeting part in case you don't have 20 minutes, but if you do have 20 minutes go ahead and listen to the whole thing, because it's not really about meeting Paul Bowles anyway, it's about being Edgar Oliver, who is one of those people who's decided to be exactly who he is all the time, which is something you can really only do if who you are is so weird that camouflage is difficult or impossible anyway.
A very unhappy tale of Americans in post WWII North Africa – They are unable to cope with this very strange world and are consumed by it.
Port Moresby and his wife, Kit, along with traveling companion Tunner wander French North Africa, seeking adventure of a civilized sort.
They are morally impaired – Port visits a prostitute; Kit has an affair with Tunner—and suffer as well from the physical location.
Port ultimately contracts a fatal disease, and Kit goes mad, becoming a slave to a local.
Corrupt French officials complete this very dark tale of naiveté destroyed by ignorance.
The word that kept flashing in my mind throughout the book is detachment.
The unlikable main characters are detached from one another and so is the reader from them.
Of course, it's deliberately made that way and it's part of the book's essence but it's not a style that works for everyone.
After the middle, the story takes a turn toward the darker, the more obscure side of the human mind.
Admittedly, Bowles has made a hell of a job depicting the guilts and the ultimate self-punishing that derive from the aforementioned detachment.
That said, it's still a book I'd recommend to most people.
Shivering in the antarctic morality of  The Delicate Prey , I'm continually needled by the desire to reread TSS and discover if I would still care as little for it today as I did when I read it more than a dozen years ago. I came to it back then with a fair amount of anticipation, having read several raving reviews, especially from posters I had enjoyed on that usenet staple rec.arts.books; and the disappointment that Bowles engendered in me was crushing. Too distant a narrative; Yank characters
, I'm continually needled by the desire to reread TSS and discover if I would still care as little for it today as I did when I read it more than a dozen years ago.
I came to it back then with a fair amount of anticipation, having read several raving reviews, especially from posters I had enjoyed on that usenet staple rec.arts.books; and the disappointment that Bowles engendered in me was crushing.
52nd book for 2018.A book about a rich intellectually pretentious American couple, who travel shortly after the Second World War to North Africa to immerse themselves in the local colour, and who within a couple of weeks are (some combination of) robbed, gang raped, driven insane, and/or dead from typhoid dysentery. Nice writing, but not much in the way of plot, misogynistic, and the ending seemed tacked on. Some nice descriptions of sand and dust.3-stars.
The shelter guards against the fear of nothingness, no God or protector against the festering human condition (i.e. the western culture that has ruined the earth and psyche for which Port seeks escape).
Port seeks that oblivion, to know it at all costs, an unknown but antidote against the over-intellectualized culture of his place in time.This was a book unlike anything I've ever read, and stirred a lot of thoughts.
Bowles is part of that angst-ridden generation who can't come to terms with the horrors of mankind's nature, as revealed by the war.
I'm wondering what you all think about watching the movie once reading the book?
For one, I could never totally buy into the marriage between Port and Kit. And while I can appreciate the symbol of Port's typhoid as an embodiment of his spiritual emptiness, I just really never gave a damn about him and his death fell flat for me.
I realize writers are a product of their time but it felt slightly misogynistic and occasionally racist.
And at times I felt Bowles was stretching for profundity.
Bowles does a masterful job of making the desert into a character all its own.
It's just too bad that it may be the only character in the book worth following.
Having seen the movie, which of course was uneven, I hesitated about reading this book - but needed something I could beat up at the beach. Then there were quite a few quite negative reviews it's gotten from GR friends (that I respect).Well..., invho, this book is nearly flawless and is a work of near genius. The overall conception, the structure and composition, the depth of language, intelligence... AND the depth of feeling.... Character and plot..., nearly flawless. I would have asked him to handle the last 20 pages differently. The rest was just gorgeous.
The Sheltering Sky is an unnerving spiraling descent into oblivion.
Bowles uses evocative descriptions of a journey deep into the Sahara to mirror a journey of disintegration of the human spirit.
The male protagonist is an aloofness in search of emptiness.
His wife, an even less believable construct who has no will of her own, merely conforms to circumstance and men’s desires.Artfully written, desert images exquisitely convey the emptiness of two souls in search of meaning in a bleak world.
But no matter how great Bowles skillfulness, I found it difficult to derive satisfaction from such a nihilistic depiction of our existence.
Having lived in Egypt for most of my 20's, I related to this in a visceral way. There are parts of North Africa and the Middle East that are beautifully magical. There are other parts that are hell on earth. It's sometimes just the luck of the draw which experience you might encounter there.
Port and Kit were glorified tourists with almost no depth or emotional lives, who tended to do silly things, assume silly assumptions - though I suppose that was the point - and have rather obnoxious conversations.I can't fault the writing with much, except for its inherent lack of..
I don't know, energy, emotional depth...
something that transfers like a spark between the reader and the writer and serves to communicate the author's passion, the author's investment of self.
I felt like this book was written without any investment of the author's self, and for that reason it was flat.
The first time I read this book I was in my 20's, and though it made a deep impression on me, and I loved it passionately, that was so long ago that I was amazed and somewhat dismayed to find that I remembered nothing of the detail.
Once again I was swept up in the lyrical writing and scope of the story.Bowles is a brilliant storyteller, moving the pace along with a swift and variable perspective.
The logic of their story is relentless however, a styalized descent into the underworld of consciousness.
I didn't expect to enjoy this book as much as I did.
It was mentioned in Patti Smith's M Train that I had just read as one of her many literary obsessions.
I can see why she enjoyed it.
The language, which is at times realistic and other times dreamy, is similar to some of the language she uses in her story telling.
Bowles really takes you on a journey through North Africa, and the language he uses to do it is really wonderful.
5 stars and best reads pile.
Good God - almost a hundred years ago now ...I'm finally getting back into the swing of the reading thing after a two week sickness hiatus.
Things are picking up an the writing is excellent as the author describes the stark contrasts between N.
A rootless waif ...This continues to be a dreary, depressing book as Kit and, especially Port begin to to circle the drain.
Beautifully written book, especially the descriptions of both the natural and human environments of North Africa.- I have NO idea why or how those underlined blue words came into being.
I know this(I think) from reading a film review many years ago.
I don’t understand why people would behave this way – especially the relationship between Port and Kit – and I don’t feel I got enough info to actually get it.Bowles opens Pandora’s box at the end when Kit suffers a psychotic break and he writes it as a series of inexplicable choices made through pain and terror.
No one acts consistently and they all think in ways we never know about which leads them to strange unidentifiable actions.
The mother and son are the most interesting fleshed out characters who act like recognizable people.
