https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/286041.The_Dirk_Gently_Omnibus
It is a real shame that Mr Adams has stopped writing. Owing to his abscense of a belief in the afterlife, we cannot, in all probability, expect any future Douglas Adams novels; but this is a natural consequence of the fact that he is now, in fact, quite dead. But his books are still very funny and, if you run across it cheap, you should get a copy of him reading his books.
I suppose it's some of the ideas that I have enjoyed most in Adams' books. In Dirk Gently's Holistic Detective Agency the ghost leaving a voicemail message, the sofa stuck in the stairwell, the professor using his space and time travel machine to try and amuse a child at a formal dinner.At best the ideas can be so funny that you can ignore the plot which can become safely incidental (view spoiler)[ or an allowable weakness as I might say if I was feeling unaccountably technical one fine day (hid
In Dirk Gently's Holistic Detective Agency the ghost leaving a voicemail message, the sofa stuck in the stairwell, the professor using his space and time travel machine to try and amuse a child at a formal dinner.At best the ideas can be so funny that you can ignore the plot which can become safely incidental (view spoiler)[ or an allowable weakness as I might say if I was feeling unaccountably technical one fine day  (hide spoiler)], purely a device for delivering jokes and tall stories.Here though I can't help noticing that the plot depends on one person telling another to 'shoot off'.
I want an electric monk.
Wow, I remember Hitchhiker's Guide being difficult to read, but this was nearly impossible. I only finished it because it was a book club book! The first half is disjointed, confusing, and does not inspire you to care about any of the characters (and there are many). They begin to intersect with each other about halfway through, when the title character is introduced, but things don't improve much. Don't bother unless you're a big Douglas Adams fan!
I could not finish this. The clever and witty circumlocution was killing me. It's like getting in a car and wanting to go somewhere but the driver keeps talking and missing his exit. Well written, just not my thing.
Two great books with one awesome character that I may need to be for Halloween for another obscure unknown costume.
Seriously still want to punch Dirk in the face.The Long Dark Tea Time Of The Soul was much more enjoyable than the former since it seemed to be shorter (they're both about 246 pages long) and that's because the story is much more connected and I didn't have to wait until the very end to know what was going on.
Dirk got punched in the face in this one, so that desire was sated.Anyone who has read THHGTTG is familiar with Adams' style - he tends to stray a little off-topic and provide inconsequential details throughout the whole narrative which may or may not become relevant later on in the story.
I was first given a copy of  The Long Dark Tea-time of the Soul  to read many, many years ago. It was great but when I noticed that it was the second in a series I was a little surprised I hadn't been given the first one to read. Now, I think I understand why. Douglas Adams is often compared with Terry Pratchett but it's a very lazy comparison. Both authors wrote a very British kind of comic speculative fiction at the end of the twentieth century but there, arguably, the similarities cease.Where
It was great but when I noticed that it was the second in a series I was a little surprised I hadn't been given the first one to read.
Both authors wrote a very British kind of comic speculative fiction at the end of the twentieth century but there, arguably, the similarities cease.Where Pratchett has evolved into a top novelist, Adams was a brilliant writer of radio screenplays.
Here, Adams leaves his Sci-Fi security blanket and writes a well-structured tale of Norse Gods coming to terms with life in modern Britain.
Some of the themes, such as how belief effects gods, how they come into being and how they die, are covered in Pratchett's 
This omnibus consists of two stories centered on the holistic detective Dirk Gently.
The first of these involves an electric monk: a labour saving device designed to believe things so that humans can get on with living.
It also involves time travel, a poem by Samuel Taylor Coleridge (beautifully intertwined into the narrative in Chapter 6.
The second story focuses less on Dirk Gently's detecting methods and he almost feels superfluous to the story, or needs a more central role.
In The Long Dark Tea-Time of the Soul, the Gods of Asgard live amongst us and are feuding.
what can I say about Dirk Gently ...
what can I say about Dirk Gently ...
Not awesome, perhaps great, definitely okay.
There are aspects of Dirk Gently that I find appealing.
I enjoyed the geometric conundrum of the sofa, and the Electric Monk, but found other parts a little too bizarre to be enjoyable.Not that there's anything wrong with that, of course.
We are talking about an author once affiliated with the Pythons, who are a shining example of how bizarre British humour can be (and don't love them for it).
1) The Holistic Agency introduces us to Dirk Gently.
He believes that his cases are solved holistically in all areas.
We follow him as he unravels a case involving Samuel Coleridge, ghosts, time travel, horses, and couches.
2) Dirk gets involved with a case that involves a missing girl, Thor and the gods, a Coke machine, and advertisersVery quirky and a little hard to understand at first, but very delightful to read.
The author has a great turn of phrase.Examples: "Reg was having difficulty in finding the key from a collection which looked like something that a fit Ninja warrior could hurl through the trunk of a tree.""Kate's spirits sank to the very bottom of her being and began to prowl around there making a low growling noise."
At times I got the impression that though this was a Douglas Adams story, I felt like it had been written by someone else.In both books we follow Dirk Gently, a not-psychic investigator.
In the first book "Dirk Gently Holistic Detective Agency" the grand reveal was the best 10 chapters or so, but it was so out there that i struggled to connect the consequences of what they had chosen to do.
We're introduced to Dirk via dialogue early in the book, almost like an excuse for not having a genuinely interesting character to follow as our hero.
Not my favorite Douglas Adams workI was extra interested in reading these books after barely liking the tv series.
My frustration with both comes down to Dirk Gently.
Characters don't have to be likeable, but I can't get over not liking Dirk Gently.
If you like Douglas Adams, read these books and you'll see more of his writing.
If you want to read a really good series, maybe not this one.
I was going to read this series no matter what I read.
I might reread passages because Douglas Adams, but I doubt I'll ever reread these books.
The First Novel (Dirk Gently's Holistic Detective Agency) - ***:Funny in parts, but never draws you in.
Only when the mystery is solved is it clear how everything is connected.
Nowhere near as good and funny as the hitch hikers guide to the galaxy.The Second Novel (The Long Dark Tea-Time of the Soul) - **:After the first Dirk Gently novel you know what you are getting yourself into, and that things will make some sort of sense at the end even though things are weird and unconnected.
In this one some of the connections are a bit more clear.
The fainting image forms a weak template so that the reader.or at least this reader, has an interesting experience such as "funny, I didn't notice that before" or "so that's how it worked" to "nah, not this time." So you keep reading and wondering if you'll finish these books before more are published only to realize that the only time machine outside your mind that would allow you to think about Adams's future is in Reg's rooms at Cambridge and it broke at the same time as British Telecom fixed the phone.
I was super unfamiliar with this work (I knew it had been made into a TV show but didn't watch it before I read this,) but I loved Hitchhiker's Guide and thought maybe this was going to be a funny twist on the noir genre.
I wouldn't call it exactly that, though it is pretty funny.
It wasn't as laugh-out-loud funny for me as Hitchhikers but it was sort of wry and dry in a similar fashion, and the tone felt familiar enough that I still really did enjoy it.
It was ok, but I must say that I don't find it particularly easy to read, so it's not pure entertainment, because I have to pay attention all the way trough the book. Moreover, I prefer the first novel to the second, even if there are Odin and Thor in the second one!Due belle storie, ma non particolarmente facili da leggere perché bisogna stare attenti tutto il tempo, quindi non proprio una lettura da ombrellone. Inoltre la prima storia mi é piaciuta piú della seconda, nonostante in questa fossero presenti nientemeno che Odino e Thor!
A great series, even if it was overshadowed by the Hitchhiker's Guide. It's a shame that Salmon of Doubt was never finished, because these characters definitely deserved their completed trilogy.In a sense, Dirk Gently is more coherent that Hitchhiker's Guide, more like Life, the Universe, and Anything in the setup and payoff running throughout. It was Douglas Adams at the height of his powers.
I feel like three stars is being stingy. This is a well-written book; it just either isn't my thing or I wasn't in the mood for it. I found myself only reading when I went to bed (a sure sign I'm bored with a book), and I never really felt connected to the characters. The humor is dry, but is definitely there. If you like stories about existential crises approached with humor, you will probably enjoy this story.
Extremely clever albeit a bit slow. Adams is an startlingly good storyteller, who can give even the most inanimate of objects a winning personality and at times make them even more likable than his deeply flawed characters.Recommended for fans of comedic fiction with magical realism elements, fans of Douglas Adams and hesitantly recommended to fans of urban fantasy.Cheers!Mark
Quirky but a great readThese two books together were a really good and fun read. The mystery was more in how does the story come together than a true mystery. I enjoyed every second of the stories and found the plots very enticing. Highly recommend this for anyone who loves Douglas Adams writing.
Before American Gods there was... this.Douglas Adams was one of the best writers of his generation. Most famous for his "Hitchhiker's guide to the Galaxy" he nevertheless also wrote two classy, witty and weird books about holistic detective Dirk Gently... And it's a pity there are only two of them. Sigh.
Not my first time reading.Definitely won't be my last, either. It is always nice to take a break from such serious writing in any genre, and Douglas has been a favorite since before I was even a teen.
Enjoyable writing style and great humor, but the endings were neither satisfying nor did they make any sense. Some segments went on for too long. (I didn't need three entire pages of Thor throwing his hammer around and making noise, to no effect.)
I'm quite a fan of Douglas Adams, but I thought that both of the stories in this collection were quite weak. They bumble along good-heartedly, then the end happens, with no real solution to the problem presented, just a sort of "It happens offscreen" feeling.
A bit weird. Near the end of The Long Dark Tea-Time of the Soul the Dracott character brings to mind Donald Trump and Toe Rag could certainly be Steve Bannon.
So odd. But rather enjoyable! Never sure what to make of the main character, but as they say, all's well that ends well!
Honestly, Dirk Gently's Holistic Detective Agency gets a 5, with 1 star knocked off the collection because The Long Dark Tea-Time of the Soul wasn't as amazing.
Quirky but very entertaining!!
More structure and plot than Hitchhiker, it felt more like Pratchett and less like Python, and had me laughing out loud at parts.
