https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/611659.The_Last_Planet
but many people read this, so it must have appeal of the era...this is probably sff as tv miniseries by now, in that the 'science' aspect of sff is neither significant, unique, credible, but only a way of enabling 'adventure' fiction to encompass space travel, aliens, blasters etc.
but also progressive attitudes re alien comrades, dealing with primitive cultures, honour against dishonour...so i enjoyed this, perhaps aided by low expectations, but it is an easy read, plot, characters, motivations, emotions, actions all essentially human (essentially male).
but if you want downmarket sff adventure this is fine...
This was the first book I ever owned, and it set me on the path to being a science fiction writer.
And make no mistake, that's a good thing.One of the last Patrol vessels of the crumbling Galactic Empire, Starfire, crashes on an uncharted planet and the surviving crew (regular Patrolmen and the Rangers who explore new worlds) must cope with surviving on an unfamiliar world and coming to terms with the end of their civilization.As the straight-forward, old-school, YA SF adventure at which Norton excelled, The Last Planet does a good job of entertaining the reader with a quickly paced story and a cast of interesting, if not overly memorable, characters: Kartr, a Ranger serjeant with powerful-but-untrained psionic powers; Zinga, a Zacathan Ranger; Rolth, another Ranger, a human whose people have adapted to a low-light world; Fylh, an avian Ranger; and the chief "bad guy," Joyd Cummi, a power-mad survivor from an earlier crash.There's also a strong, salutary message about the stupidity of prejudice.
Not bad.
While the history doesn't seem to quite match up, this is ostensibly set in the same universe as Star Guard, after jumping forward a thousand or so years to the decline the galactic empire that humans have become part of. A little laggy in parts, but with some enjoyable parts.Women actually appear in the book! And a couple have names and everything. :) Actually serving in the Patrol, but in a kind of "Women's auxiliary" supply corps. And the usual wives and mothers.
I first read this book when i was 8 or 9, back in the 1960's, when i found it in the school library. i enjoyed it then, being the target audience, and I have a hardback copy now on my bookshelf. I will always enjoy this book, even though my tastes have inevitably become more sophisticated, because there is an innocence and clarity about the story and the writing style that I find immensely appealing, even after all these years. Definitely a keeper!
I read this book about 35 years ago when I was a kid. There was very little of the plot that I recalled, but I always remembered enjoying it. Strangely enough, I always recalled the cover art from the 1974 paper back version. Norton's writing is obviously a bit dated (published in 1953). But she spins a great "old school" science fiction story that concentrates on the characters rather than the technology, and then she plugs in a twist at the end that's both poignant and hopeful.
I had never managed to get much farther than a couple chapters into a Norton book. Maybe I just needed to be in the right frame of mind or my taste in books needed to change but after having this one on my shelves for 7 years I decided to give it another try.While it came across as a boys adventure story with some aliens and spaceships thrown in for fun and a racism is bad message, I ended up enjoying the story.
Of the two novels in Star Soldiers, I enjoyed this one more than Star Guard. It had more of the things I always liked about Norton's stories: inter-species cooperation, telepathy, and an upbeat ending. The characters evince ranges of behavior, with the major ones developing as the story progresses. "People" (not all of them human) you don't mind hanging out with, for awhile.
(4.5)What a fun book! Good old-fashioned space (well, planet) adventure, with an ending that shot the story well past "pretty good" and into "great!" I already knew I loved Andre Norton, but I'm extra loving discovering more of her work.
This book cemented my love for sci-fi when I first read it. Norton is a true master.
I read this book the first time at 15. It was a nice visit with an old friend
The Patrol, Starfire's actual pilots and space crew plus the accompanying Rangers, land-based explorers, scouts and foot soldiers, now reduced to a wounded ragtag group of humans and aliens frequently in conflict with one another over racial, species, social and class issues, find themselves marooned on a planet that holds a bizarre blend of long-abandoned technology and a small native population that has barely advanced beyond primitive wilderness skills.
The "sensitives" who have this ability are feared by both humans and aliens alike who have a desperate fear of losing their minds to some sort of mental incursion.Deep stuff, indeed, and my only criticism of this particular novel is that Norton didn't take the time to explore these compelling issues much more deeply.
Although Star Rangers is an otherwise straightforward scifi adventure novel, a big part of the book revolved around the racial tension between humans and non-humans.
The “bemmys” (aka BEM, aka Bug Eyed Monsters) are neither bug-eyed nor monsters, but the humans of the story treat them as outsiders, even as they serve on the same crew.
In fact, the story is mostly from the non-humans’ point of view.
I was not expecting this from a book written in 1953.
Again, not what I was expecting.
Overall, although I gave the book 4/5 stars due to a somewhat muddled ending, I was pleasantly surprised by what I anticipated to be a by-the-numbers adventure story.

This is a grand old ('53) epic of science fiction, a true precursor to "Star Wars". It falls just short of a 5-star rating, I would give it 4.5 stars if I could. Interstellar craft crashes on an earth-like planet with a group of space rangers on board and the fun begins. Norton always displayed a great imagination in her work and it is at its' zenith here. Highly recommended to sci-fi fans and recommended to anyone who wants to enjoy a good adventure story.
This is one of the earliest books I remember owning and I have read and re-read it time after time and enjoyed it each time as much as the first.
First book I read in one sitting. A magical page turner for a lad of 11.
The Prologue contains one of the first narrations of this story--and uses it as a jumping-off point for this story.I Last Port: Though there are reminiscences of earlier missions by the Vegan Patrol ship Starfire; the book begins with recovery after its (final) crash landing.II Green HillsIII MutinyIV BeaconV The CityVI The City PeopleVII The Rangers Stand TogetherVIII Palace RevolutionIX ShowdownX BattleXI OutcastXII Kartr Takes The TrailXIII Cummi's KingdomXIV PlagueXV The Meeting Place of The GodsXVI Terra CallingXVII The End Is Not YetThe 'surprise' ending of this is telegraphed WAY in advance.
The lost Patrol ship is marooned on a planet that's providentially ideal for their (somewhat varied) species.Lin Carter pointed out that the Empire in question must have been quite small, and that it's improbable that 'Arth-type' planets so close to centers of civilization would have been abandoned.I have to say, I've always found the 'history repeats itself' paradigm more than a little absurd.
They're making stews and such, but while things like sleeping bags are very thoroughly described, cooking pots are barely mentioned.As for the decision to abandon the stars (and cities), and to try to make a go of it in a 'lost colony' scenario, they might want to revisit that question periodically.
The very start grips the reader with a space ship crash landing on this planet with breathable oxygen and a surrounding forest etc.The crews are a mixed group of Terrans (Human) Zachurian (Reptilian) and other.
Our band of shipwrecked explorers are from this Space Union.As the story unfolds, the crew make discoveries of a past civilisation and piece by piece the shipwrecked explorers begin to find out more about the planet they have crash landed on.
A very exciting sci-fi story written (I think) in the 1950s or there about's.
I first read Star Rangers in junior school, in a hardback from the local library.
It had made an impression the first times I read it (I'm sure I had it out from the library at least twice).
The Patrol Rangers face racism, and a would-be dictator, all the time exploring the strange world.My only gripes with the book are firstly that there are two large coincidences that are frankly improbable - but on the other hand strange coincidences do happen - and secondly a virtual absence of female characters.
Otherwise, Star Rangers is a well-told adventure, fast-paced and effective.
She shows the evils of intolerance and the benefits of integration when racial inequities were still common place in our own nation.
Without support the Star Rangers continued to try and keep the peace but without resources and support their efforts were futile.
This book depicts a small band of rangers and demonstrates their ability to shape their own destiny and to maintain honor and integrity in trying circumstances.
Once again, Norton demonstrates her readability and sustainability, this book was first published in 1953 and certainly has survived the test of time.
I strongly recommend the book!
Norton's second Sci-fi book is an interesting adventure novel set around a mixed crew of spacemen who crash land on a distant planet and their struggles to survive.
Written in 1954, Norton pretty much attacks the racism and xenophobia topics head-on, and while it occasionally comes off as pretty didactic, she certainly shows that she was ahead of the curve compared to many of the sci-fi novelists of the time.
It does show its age at times, particularly as it reaches a fairly clunky conclusion, but Norton is such a strong storyteller that you're willing to forgive a lot and just watch the story unfold.
Super amazing Norton, as good as Star Guard
I hadn't read anything from Andre Norton since high school, and it brought up all sorts of memories.
It was written in 1953, and this is an early edition paperback.Andre Norton usually writes Sci-Fi/Fantasy books about spaceflight, other planets, alien races, and adding humans into the mix.
In it, the last known intact ship and crew from the disintegrating Stellar Patrol, decides to continue its journey and mission remapping forgotten star systems on the edge of the galaxy.The ship is stranded on an uncharted planet, and notwithstanding the breakdown of disclipline of the mixed alien/human crew members, a shocking and fascinating discovery is made.A first-rate novel from a first-rate story teller!
The story involves Rangers, a mixed group of humans and aliens, some of them "sensitives" who can read minds.
They work closely with Patrol, a humans-only group that is suspicious of mind reading.
Their interactions deliver a message of tolerance and diversity, while also creating a new way to look at men -- as people who can use "sensitivity" as a tool, even a weapon.
While all this is very enlightening, the women in the story are nothing but sex objects and the space-adventure equivalent of secretaries.
So, while some of the messages are good, especially for men to hear, this book is not particularly tempting for female readers.
This weekend I struck gold in a hitherto unknown used bookstore near the harbor.
In the back I found a treasure trove of Andre Norton books, including six I did not have copies of, four of which I had never read before.
Unexpected happiness!Star Rangers was originally published in 1953 and my copy was printed in 1980 or '81.
This is a good representative of a lot of the books Andre Norton wrote in the 1950, books full of adventure and explorations of how humanity feels towards 'the other'.
There she depicts a time and place where a once great galactic empire has begun to decay and crumble under its own weight.
The crew of a lone patrol ship are perhaps the last guardians of law and order left.
This hardy yet weary crew, devoid of fuel and other resources is forced to crash land on a desolate and forbidding world.There the survivors of the patrol make a startling discovery about their empire's shadowy origins.
This book is a great old-fashioned romp of an adventure I would recommend this book.
I don't know why this book was written, published or republished.
I don't know why you might want to read it.It's inoffensive enough ...
could be a plot for a Star Trek episode.
It beats the reader over the head with a cliche message about tolerance, has a little adventure and ends with one of the most predictable "surprise" endings you could hope for.I could not begin to guess the number of sci-fi tales I have read that have a group of adventurers happening upon a long-deserted city from which the occupants have simply vanished.
