https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35924698-the-witch-doesn-t-burn-in-this-one
This is, without a doubt, my favorite poetry collection I’ve ever read
Estoy realmente sorprendida de que me gustara tanto. El primer libro, "The Princess Saves Herself in this One" me había parecido muy sin chiste, solo me gustaron unos cuatro o cinco poemas, entonces, para mí, no fue nada memorable. Pero este... este fue como WOW. Me pude sentir identificada con muchos de los poemas, y algunos me dejaron sin aliento. Creo que Amanda Lovelace creció mucho de su primer poemario a este. Es un libro de empoderamiento y de fuego.Muy feminista.Muy recomendado.
Picking up this poetry collection couldn't have come at a better time with having just read a book about powerful witches by Leslye Walton: The Price Guide to the Occult.I really took to heart Amanda Lovelace's The Princess Saves Herself in This One for its raw and honest take on love, loss, grief, and healing. Plus, the many feminist poems. So with this follow-up collection, I was keen on reconnecting with the author through her words.As the blurb states, these moving, relatable poems encourag
Picking up this poetry collection couldn't have come at a better time with having just read a book about powerful witches by Leslye Walton: The Price Guide to the Occult.I really took to heart Amanda Lovelace's The Princess Saves Herself in This One for its raw and honest take on love, loss, grief, and healing.
The main focus is on self-love and acceptance, feminism, girl-power, and women supporting women.
So I missed my favorite section of having more personal poems.And with the focus being more on the aforementioned, I feel like I didn't take in anything new and refreshing from the collection.
On that note, the poems that really stood out to me were the following:
You can find this review and more on my blog!#1: The Princess Saves Herself in this One ★★★★☆ #2: The Witch Doesn't Burn in this One ★★★★☆ i didn't come hereto be civil.i didn't come hereto sit you downwith a mug of tea& a blueberry muffinto coddle you asi try to convince youthat respectingmy existence is essential.Much like the first book in this poetry series, Amanda writes about feminism with a pleasantly surprising level of intersectionality and care; she touches on topics like transphobia, menstruation, rape culture, body-shaming, eating disorders, romanticization of abuse, and more.
⚠ Warning - High Probability of Unpopular Opinions Ahead ⚠I’ve read  Amanda Lovelace’s the witch doesn’t burn in this one twice now. I wasn’t familiar with Amanda’s poetry and was intrigued so read it immediately after I downloaded it. I had strong contradictory feelings about it and wanted to know how I’d feel after it sat with me for a while and then reread it. So, here we are straight after the reread. My review may well feel like one big soapbox moment but if this book has reminded me of any
I love strong role models and people who are able to transform what could have destroyed them into something that’s able to inspire others.This Book Being Published - Just the fact that a woman who’s openly refuting the patriarchy and speaking her passionate truth has had her words published for anyone who wants to read them is a triumph.
I went into this knowing it's not my favorite style of poetry, which is why i'm withholding a rating. As always, a great message for those first delving into poetry/feminism, but for some reason I just can't vibe with each poem's delivery. I will say that I enjoyed book one more than this one.
say itwith menow:“i am a woman.i am a human. & i matter with no conditions attached. you many notsee my worth, but i do. i do.”  This book of poetry is important and it’s powerful. Some of the poems really spoke to me and moved me, others I couldn’t relate to as much. Overall I loved the book and I loved the message. There are some I highlighted that I know will stay with me. It only took me an hour or two to read (and I took my time reading it) so I would definitely recommend you take just

5 Words: Witch, femininity, sisterhood, fire, solidarity.What did I feel when reading this book?Lots of things. A lot of anger, a lot of pride, a lot of power.I had goosebumps up my arms and down my legs. I wanted to scream and rage and burn things. But in a good way.I loved this collection. I loved the narrative behind each poem, how it told a story as you turned each page. The writing itself seemed to change as I progressed through the book, it became stronger and more mature.This was excellent.
4.5 stars   I was sent this by Andrews McMeel Publishing in exchange for an honest review I will be discussing this more on my YouTube channel (Julia Sapphire) shortly! This was incredible, I am speechless and I am so excited for everyone to read this when it releases.   “womendon't enduresimply becausewe can;no,women endurebecause we aren'tgiven any otherchoice.- they wanted us weak but forced us to be strong.”
Thank you Andrews McMeel Publishing for proving an ARC in exchange for an honest review.After my disappointment with the princess saves herself in this one, I crossed my fingers I'll like this more. Amanda Lovelace's newest poetry collection centers on feminism. Topic wise, it's good but the poems were still empty, rundown sentences. Some poems are written differently but the thought was just the same. It's quite unimpressive. Do I feel empowered or inspired by this collection? Sadly, no. I guess Amanda Lovelace's poems aren't for me.
I don't know, I just didn't like it.Another issue I had was the way that Lovelace was talking as if every male on the planet is terrible, awful, and cause every women strife.
Not every male out there is going to hurt you if you've been assaulted and just the way that she states these things, it just made me very mad.
Lovelace was acting as if the way to solve all of the issues in the world was to eradicate all the men and that is just not the case.The formatting was not okay either.
review from the first volume is still valid. Love these stories and lessons
YES PLEASE.So where did it all fall short for me, you ask?Majority of these poems were written with such anger and rage towards men that I just don’t vibe with it.
But some of these poems where written in a way that could lead readers to believe men as horrible and lesser beings than women.
This is the main reason is why I only highlighted two poems that resonated with me throughout this book.Another area it fell short for me was the poetry style.
However, poetry is something that everyone interprets differently, so in no way would I ever tell someone not to read this.
But I think this collection worked so much better than the first one (Which I also loved).The Witch Doesn't Burn in This One  is so cohesive and on topic.
Although each poem works individually, they also tell a story and I think this was so nice.
I think she puts out some of my favourite modern poetry and her collections stay relevant and topical.
I also loved that she included a trigger warning page - need more of these in books!My favourite poem was witch girl gang but it's too long to type out but just know this
That's the first word that comes to me when thinking about this collection of poems.
That collection of poems seemed so disingenuine and fake, in my opinion.
Lovelace, her poems felt like they were from the heart, she didn't try to use a shock factor to get her point across.There are so many people I already recommended this book to, so many pictures I took of the poems and then texted to my friends.
It's not a book for everyone, but I wish everyone would read it.Follow me on ♥ Facebook ♥ Blog ♥ Instagram ♥ Twitter ♥
This is the second instalment in the 'Women are Some Kind of Magic' series and I adored it every bit as much as the first. The previous volume was far more focused on the individual but this collection aims to unite women, as one body. This provides a call to action for us to burn brighter, strive harder, and ensure that we never forget the ashes of our ancestors that we were born upon.
we must help lifteach other abovethe flames.- women supporting women. this was alright. i can understand the empowering women aspects and the supporting each other (!!!) and the push for self-love and healing and acceptance, that was all fantastic but i didn't resonate with the intense misandrylike i just want women to be recognized and praised and loved and celebrated and all but the whole burn every man at the stake notion was like sis, i could do without that, yeahand the quotes were nice an
i can understand the empowering women aspects and the supporting each other (!!!) and the push for self-love and healing and acceptance, that was all fantastic but i didn't resonate with the intense misandrylike i just want women to be recognized and praised and loved and celebrated and all but the whole burn every man at the stake notion was like sis, i could do without that, yeahand the quotes were nice and philosophical but sometimes it just got exhausting with the repeated phrases (x100) and SOME OF THEM JUST FELT LIKENORMALWORDSBUTWITHSPACES
- they wanted us weak but forced us to be strong.
tell mesomething,would you?haven't youever wishedyou coulddancein the ashesof everyone whoever doubtedyour worth& scoffed atyour words?(shhh,it's ok,i won't tell.) Thank you, Amanda!Thank you for every word in this poetry collection.Thank you for all your fire.Thank you for putting that fire into words.Thank you for making me feel less alone in my own fire.Thank you, Amanda!**********************************************
we must help lifteach other abovethe flames.- women supporting women.  I loved The Princess Saves Herself in this One, loved and I looked forward to read this so much. But.. hmm..It wasn't what I was hoping for to be.This book was full of anger against men. It supposed to empower women but I didn't feel empowered at all, I finished the book with a feeling that men are bad and are something less than women. I liked and highlighted eleven poems (mostly woman-loving or self-loving ones) but that'
we must help lifteach other abovethe flames.- women supporting women.
  
I loved The Princess Saves Herself in this One, loved and I looked forward to read this so much. But.. hmm..It wasn't what I was hoping for to be.This book was full of anger against men. It supposed to empower women but I didn't feel empowered at all, I finished the book with a feeling that men are bad and are something less than women. I liked and highlighted eleven poems (mostly woman-loving or self-loving ones) but that's all.
➹ARC provided by Netgalley and Andrews McMeel Publishing in exchange for an honest review➷  this is an overdue love letter to each & every woman who walked these fields before me & made the path soft enough for me to walk through and get to the side they could never reach. for that, I owe you so much. - but I owe some things to myself, too.  This is the kind of book you read every time you doubt yourself, every time you feel powerless, every time you feel like your flame is slowly dying.
I devoured each and every poem in this book, each one better than the last and took them all into my heart.
every time you "joke" to your other red-handed rapist friends that it's not rape if you warn them first—every time you press your callous hand over her pink-lemonade lipstick, "no please no" mouth—every time you think of slipping something smooth and sleepy into her drink—catch us in the skies, flying by night, landing soundlessly behind you.we'll be waiting (im)patiently with swords pushed up our dress sleeves & blood-rusted spikes sticking out of our boots.(oh yes, and heads will be thump.
here’sthe tricky thingabout fire:it stays softeven while itdestroyseverythingin itspath,butit’s upto
However, I liked this, but I didn’t like it as much as her first collection.
There were a lot of poems on burning and fire.
I wish there would have been more poems about the coven aspect of witches.
Another thing that I didn’t love was how she brought up queens in this book.
In the last section she talks about witch-queens, and I wished she would have just focused solely on witches.
References to queens should have stayed in her first collection.
As for the bonus poems that are included in this edition, I really loved the first one about girl on girl hate.
BEAUTIFUL AND IMPORTANT!!!!! Every women should read it. Everyone really.  Know your worth and no man can take you down! Be the flame that you know you can be! Let yourself be free. And be a Queen👑, who rules with NO NEED of a King🤴. Be the fire🔥that they can’t put down, the fire that deep down they fear because they know how strong it is.  Be the strength, the love and the hope that they could never be. Be yourself and fuck it🖕who ever thinks that’s no enough, because is more than they will ev
BEAUTIFUL AND IMPORTANT!!!!!
Every women should read it.
Know your worth and no man can take you down!
Be the flame that you know you can be!
Let yourself be free.
And be a Queen👑, who rules with NO NEED of a King🤴.
Be the fire🔥that they can’t put down, the fire that deep down they fear because they know how strong it is.
Be the strength, the love and the hope that they could never be.
Be yourself and fuck it🖕who ever thinks that’s no enough, because is more than they will ever deserve.*Thank you to Netgalley for a ARC of this book.
misandry/mɪˈsandri/noundislike of, contempt for, or ingrained prejudice against men (i.e. the male sex).I had many issues with this.
Maybe I just dont like poetry, I think I`m just too impatient to listen to people who speak in similies, I find it so goddamn stupid."Some destruction is beautiful." It really isnt tho?
Burning men.
I know a lot of men I`d be sad to see burn.
Yeah, I know some people like to shit on people for saying that, but I will say it every time people group em all together, cause it isn`t fair.
call mebitch.call mevillain.call meshe-wolf. call me bad omen.call meyour worst nightmarewearing a red-lipped smile. -even better, call me by my name.
This is a poetry collection that centers on feminism, and I was really excited to read this one because I really enjoyed this author's first poetry collection The Princess Saves Herself In This One. I am torn over how I feel about this poetry collection though: some of it I absolutely loved and agreed with an then some of it felt like hate towards men and anger towards men in an unfair way.“womendon't enduresimply becausewe can;no,women endurebecause we aren'tgiven any otherchoice.- they wanted us weak but forced us to be strong.” Some of these poems about feeling unsafe and experiencing abuse were very powerful and worded beautifully, but then some of the poems just seemed hateful towards men.
great concept! subpar execution.
I just felt that it was pretty simple and similar to the first collection!
I was sent this book as an advanced copy by the publisher via NetGalley for reviewing purposes, but all opinions are my own. This was amazingly powerful and empowering. It was emotionally hard to read at times, like all good thought-prokoving literature is.Full disclosure, I still haven't read Lovelace's first poem collection fully, but I have read many of her poems (I follow her on twitter and she often RTs people sharing their favorite poems of her, so that way I got to read a few) and I feel
I think it does a great job at embracing women of all kinds and from all times, however I found that a few poems that tried to be "true" in a timeless way instead focused more on things that are historically only true in modern times and in western society.
This is just a minor detail and it didn't affect my enjoyment of the book.The poems were powerful and evoked vivd images of the witches, the match-boys and of fire.

