https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114159.Blue_Dahlia
A good romance and beginning of the trilogy.
Of course, It's Nora Roberts so its well written and the characters are developing perfectly.
Stella moves back to Tennessee after losing her husband.
But when she moves into the Harper House, she meets the Harper Ghost.
Nora gives more hints to the reader than she does the characters so its fun watching them uncover the mystery.
Also it was fun figuring out which romances were going to blossom.
Lol) 🤷‍♀️(well, I thought it was funny.)  Anyway, one of my favorite parts in the book were watching the friendships develop between the women.
2  stars. Not enough story. Not enough plot. Characters were nice people but not compelling enough for a story.My mind kept wandering. A lot of conversation about ordinary things. Characters did not interest or intrigue me. Stella likes to organize and manage things. Logan is creative and artistic with his landscaping but appears disorganized in other things. I wasn’t drawn to the relationship. The sex scenes didn’t do anything for me.The plot surrounding the ghost was not well developed and not
Characters were nice people but not compelling enough for a story.My mind kept wandering.
A lot of conversation about ordinary things.
Stella likes to organize and manage things.
The sex scenes didn’t do anything for me.The plot surrounding the ghost was not well developed and not finished.
They hired someone to go through old records to discover the story behind the ghost.
He started, but the book ended before he worked on it.The narrator Susie Breck was ok.DATA:Narrative mode: 3rd person.
Swearing language: strong including religious swear words, but rarely used.
Sexual language: none.
Book copyright: 2004.
In Nora Roberts's Blue Dahlia, she introduced to three women who came together to work in a garden nursery in rural Tennessee.
She met Roz Harper, who owned the Harper House and ran the flowery nursery.
She wasn't intimated by her, since she tried to escape the ghosts of the past.
As she settled down into her new life, she met expectant young mother Hayley and formed a friendship with her as with Roz. Later she met and fell in love with Logan Kittridge, the handsome landscaper.
But someone wasn't too happy with this coupling, the Harper Bride ghost.
They've dug deep into the ghost past's of rage and heartbreak as she haunted Harper House.
We have some romance and some characters that I actually enjoyed enough to revisit through three books."Blue Dahlia" is the first book in the series and follows single mother and widow Stella.
When the book begins we have Stella enjoying her life with her husband Kevin and their two boys who she loves, but who drive her up the wall at times.
And thank goodness that Logan gets it (about Stella's marriage) and being an adult about that (looking your way Virgin River book #1).
Nora Roberts para mí es de las mejores en el campo de la contemporánea y hay muy cosas historias que ella haya escrito y no me hayan gustado, interesado o entretenido.En esta ocasión, tenemos una historia entretenida y con un misterioso fantasma de por medio, lo que lo hace más enganchable.Con unos protagonistas totalmente opuestos, Stella y Logan han tenido escenas de todo tipo, pero sobre todo divertidas, ya que sus personalidades chocan tanto que acaban teniendo conversaciones inesperadas.
I mean, I like green.
I'm a cruel, evil person and I get crazy obsessed when people buy flowers and pretend they like them.
It's like owning three cats, five dogs, and eating chicken nuggets.At least, I admit that I'm a cactus-murderer.
Except that maybe if it's just about gardening..
Although, I also get crazy over people who talk about flowers..
Dear reader, it was a traumatic experience, but I'm almost sure that no one else'll feel like that and you should definitely give books with flowers in them at least a try, although I won't take it against you if you wouldn't, now that you've heard this dramatic, desperate story of innocent longing, humiliation and loss.
I never got the impression that the hero and heroine even liked each other, so I'm not sure how they fell in love.I'm not that interested in gardens so all the talk about plants bored me to death.
If I had liked the main character, maybe I could have enjoyed the book more, but Stella was a control freak who didn't understand how people could be different from her.
I'd definite listen something else by this narrator.I may continue the series because I liked Roz and Hayley (the heroines of the next two books) but I'll definitely wait a while to read them.
“Dalia azul” es el primer libro de la Trilogía del Jardín. La historia me gustó (creo que es casi imposible que no me guste alguna historia de Nora Roberts), pero me faltó un poco más de romance entre los protagonistas. Entiendo que en esta primera parte la autora tenga que hacer la presentación de todos los personajes y ponernos en situación sobre el conflicto principal de la trilogía, pero me faltó emoción y esa química tan característica entre sus protagonistas.
Started off great, even made me cry after the first few chapters. Then the story moved ahead a few years and it went downhill from there. Just slow, touchy-feely fluff in a small southern town. That may appeal to many, but it became boring for me.
I needed a ghost book for a challenge and picked this up and it ended up being really good!
I liked the characters and the little family that came together throughout the story, I'm glad the same characters are in the rest of this series.
I didn't think I would like this because of something Stella went through in the beginning and I'm not big on sad type stories, but once it was over it didn't drag her down for long.
I need to know more about the Harper Bride, I will read the next one!
The ghost added a nice touch of mystery to this
3’5 Estrellas, pero se queda con 4 porque el romance de los protagonistas, y sobre todo Logan, me han encantado.Con “Dalia azul” comienza la trilogía del Jardín, una serie ambientada en una gran mansión colonial en Tennessee, cuyos dueños, los descendientes de la rica familia Harper, se dedican al cultivo y venta de flores y plantas.Nuestra protagonista, Stella, es una mujer que lo tenía todo, una familia normal, con su marido y sus dos hijos pequeños.
La mansión Harper, tiene sus secretos, y en su caso es el fantasma de una mujer que nadie sabe quién es, pero se aparece por las noches en la casa cuando hay niños y los canta nanas ¿Quién es éste fantasma y cuál es su historia?
Stella agrees and later learns that the house is haunted by a ghost known as the Harper House bride.
Stella quickly butts heads with the nursery's landscaper Logan who turns her life topsy-turvy and tries to make a social acquaintance something more not knowing that the Harper House Bride hates men.
Will everyone living in Harper House be able to survive the wrath of the Harper House Bride ghost and find out who she really is?
It was also a pretty good read and I look forward to checking out the rest of the trilogy in the future.
Roberts no se equivocó al optar por los clásicos personajes que intentan no caer en una relación relativamente “difícil” por circunstancias similares entre ambos (edad, condición social, relaciones pasadas) y que al final no resisten encontrándose de cara con el amor que les salva la vida.Un aporte que me encantó y sacó a este libro del típico cuento de novela romántica fue la implementación de un personaje al que se lo podría considerar un tanto… extraño, dentro del contexto de la pink literature y fue nada más ni nada menos que El Fantasma.
Logan is a great hero, and Stella is a delightful thorn in his side.
Too soon, Logan a fellow employee, roars into her life and turns everything upside down.And if that isn't enough, Stella finds herself haunted by the Harper Bride.
The trouble is, no one knows who the Bride is or why she doesn't want Stella and Logan together.My trip ended before my CDs and I found myself sitting in my car once I got home just to listen to a few more tracs, and even making small needless trips to listen more.
I know I’ve read this series before, but it’s one of the few Nora Roberts trilogies that I don’t remember clearly.
Which meant that I needed to reread them immediately!This isn’t my favorite Nora series, but it’s still fun and sweet with just enough mystery to add some flavor to the narrative.
In the Garden is a nursery business set up by Rosalind Harper on her family estate, and she’s on the hunt for a manager.
The catch is that Stella has to move herself and her boys into the sprawling Harper House, but that’s not exactly a hardship.
Of course, you know the two will be attracted to each other; after all, this is a romance novel.Of course, there's more to the story than gardening and romance; Harper House, Roz's family home has a ghost.
Many times, the first books in her trilogies seem rushed, with too many characters and too much set-up information crowding out the relationship that's supposed to be the central point of the plot.Roberts does a good job balancing things here, introducing the players, yet still giving Stella and Logan enough attention so that you feel like the relationship is actually developing in a normal time frame.
A very typical Nora Roberts, with a good friendship story, a new romance, a birth and a ghost.
Stella is a newly widowed, mother of two boys who moves back to her hometown in Tennessee, looking for a fresh start and a safe new place for them to settle.
She ends up at a garden nursery owned by Roz, a strong older woman who provides her with a satisfying job and a safe roof over their heads at Harper House.
Logan starts to frequent Harper House more often and for reasons unknown the ghost becomes unsettled and shows a different side to herself.
I liked the author's other series about an Inn, 3 brothers, a bookstore, etc.
This was a pretty good start.
Plus Logan I think is one of my favorites.
And same with Stella.
I liked that about these two.
Plus it was just fun, reading their moments and what the other characters thought of them as well.The writing really helped and liked the moments with Stella and co ran the garden nursery, researching more about their ghost, their love for gardening.
Anyway, good start and looking forward to the other two books.
The ghost, known as the Harper Bride, likes to sing children to sleep, and she appears to Stella's boys almost immediately in this manner.
She also starts appearing to Stella to warn her against falling in love with Logan Kitridge, In the Garden's landscaper.
I also particularly enjoyed the story of the Harper Bride, which had me rushing to pick up the next in the trilogy, "Black Rose," as soon as I finished the last page.I highly recommend this book, though I'd advise buying the whole trilogy before you start.
I'd forgotten how much I loved Logan.
3,5. Hacía tiempo que una novela no me enganchaba para leerla sin parones largos y ésta sí me ha enganchado. Por eso recurro a Nora Roberts cuando me estanco en las lecturas. La relación de Stella y Logan es muy divertida, pasan del odio al amor con ayuda de los pequeños Gavin y Luke, que son adorables. El fantasma me intriga, y Mitch también. Buen inicio de serie, no sé por qué no la había leído todavía.
She quickly becomes friends with Roz, the enigmatic owner of the shop, her new boss and owner of Harper house where Stella lives as a condition of her employment..
The three women bond, Stella embarks on a romance with a landscaper and there is a ghost haunting the place.You can always count on Nora Roberts putting out one of her JD Robb titles(Visions in Death), a single title (Northern Lights) and trilogy title at least once a year and usually around the same time.
Stella, Roz, Logan, Hayley even the ghost are all such `meh' creatures that the I had a very hard time getting involved or excited about any of them.
The story was okay and kept my interest but the characters, especially Stella, I just found annoying. She was just too tightly wound for me. The ending is what really disappointed me. Listening to it in the car, even my son said, "that's it? Is there a sequel? There are way to many loose ends here and I haven't even listened to the whole book!" That about sums it up!!
3.5 or 4 stars. Enjoyed the story and the characters, although I can't quite see how the two main characters, so totally opposite in terms of organization and spontaneity, will manage to get along in a marriage. The overall ghost-story arc plays out through the entire trilogy, and it's interesting without being too creepy. Full review to come.
No está mal, pero adolece de lo que la mayoría de los primeros libros de las trilogías de la Roberts: el afán de presentarnos a los 6 protagonistas y, en este caso, le restan voz a los verdaderos protagonistas.
Side characters were way more interesting than the main couple.
What a way to set up the back story of the heroine.
It was so awkward and off-putting that I physically cringed in certain spots (like the first sex scene).
Also, the romance took over the entire story so there wasn't really a plot to this book.
It was all set up for the other two books and the ghost story.2.
He also wasn't really needed in the story; if he was taken out all together, the book would have the exact same plot progression.3.
I was surprised by how much I liked this one as there were some rough spots.
I liked the 3 decades that they spanned, each at a different spot in their lives, yet they could relate to the other and give support where needed.
Stella was really able to let loose with her kids, it was great to see!The part at the end was a little over the top, but a good way to prove the ghost was there and for Stella and Logan's eyes to be open.I look forward to reading more in this series.
Another win for Nora Roberts. I loved this story. Stella is a strong single mother looking to get control of her life with her boys after the death of her husband and happen to find a great place to work. Three women become close and find a beautiful friendship but Stella also found herself falling for a handsome man that she thought was going to drive her crazy. He does in a good way and he is so good with the boys too. That's just the beginning and I can't wait to see how the story will continue.
I don't actually like romances very much but Nora Roberts has a talent for adding the supernatural into hers which make them great reading for me! This one was actually sufficiently spooky that I did not like to read it in bed at night. So having just finished it in the cold hard light of day I can say that I enjoyed the story, the characters, the haunting and even the romance. The sex scenes reminded me of Eve and Roarke but I guess that is not surprising. Another good book from an amazingly prolific author.
I liked it.......up until about the last 10 pages.....then it seemed to go at warp speed and almost fall flat. It felt like Roberts forgot she had a deadline and the jammed everything in and then abruptly ended the story. Could be it was supposed to lead into the next book of the trilogy but it felt too choppy to me. Of course I'll read the next part - maybe it will smooth things out? Aside from that I did like the character development and loved the setting......an easy and quick read so it fit the bill!
