https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8132998-in-a-grove
It's hard to say who is a greater sinner, you or me.The plot revolves around some interesting themes that include the inability to know an absolute truth since everything seems to be contaminated by our impressions; self-interest, beauty and lust, dishonor and the atrocities a person is willing to do to remedy that situation, the ephemeral essence of our existence and the heinous rationalization behind the act of taking somebody else's life.'Truly human life is as evanescent as the morning dew or a flash of lightning', stated the traveling Buddhist priest in his testimony.Since the film gave me the absurd idea of merging these reviews, it is only fair to say that Kurosawa's approach differs a bit from Akutagawa's story, where ambiguity controls every aspect of it.
This story is contained in one or two of the anthologies of Akutagawa's short stories.
The easiest to get hold of might be Rashamon and Other Stories or Rashomon and Seventeen Other Stories.I'm hovering on the brink of giving this particular short story 5 stars, just for the premise alone.
( Having more than one protagonist (or no specific protagonist at all) , and the differing viewpoints that these protagonsists have on the same set of events.) The translation also came across as a lot more elegant than some of Akutagawa's other stories.
Simply Amazing.
I have to admit that I read this short story mainly because of Kurosawa's Rashomon, which I consider one of the best movies by the best filmmakers in the history of the moving picture which, despite its age and style as we see it with our so-called modern eyes, transcends both time and place.
I first did not like this short story, and gave it two stars, mainly because, as they are by definition, short stories are short and I wanted to keep on reading and was left hungry for more.
This is truly a five star.
Un relato genial. No llega a las 10 páginas, lo podéis leer aquí: http://www.medellindigital.gov.co/Med...Y una reseña aquí: http://revista.abretelibro.com/2011/0...
In the end, it's still not clear what the truth is, given that all three have different things to defend and hide. I suspect that even the ghost wants to preserve as much of his honor as possible even after death.
Ոճը շատ հետաքրքիր էր:
This is the most well known modern Japanese short story owing to it being the plot of Akira Kurosawa's Rashōmon. The basic plot is a murder and rape occurs, but no one who witnesses it (4 to 5 people) can agree on how or what the details of it are. This story gives a great insight into how who we are can effect how we perceive even basic things.
There is the plot story (the murder of a samurai), the premise (i.e. a dead samurai, his missing weapons, his missing wife), the conflict (varying affidavits of the murder as told by seven individuals), but the conclusion as to who among them tells the truth is left for the readers to decide, and this conjecture leads to even more questions than answers.Two realizations after this read: One, the human mind is indeed so perplexing; and two, I now want to watch Rashōmon.
This story brings into question the accuracy of the human perception and fully illustrates our tendency to lie.
But the thing about this story is Ryūnosuke Akutagawa didn't really provide us with a distinction between what the truths are and what are merely fabrications.
What he did is provide us with information, and it would be up to the readers to form the puzzle and make out the story for it to be rational.
And as you go on reading along, your former belief of what really happened would be contradicted by another person's account...leaving the readers to wonder what really happened after all.
Oh what a tangled web we weave.
When first we practice to deceive.
- Sir Walter Scott I felt this story was not really about different perspectives on a crime, distorted by panic and shoddy memory.
You don't forget or misremember a fact like stabbing and killing a guy (or not).
And yet there are multiple killers admitting to doing their task individually?I think this is more of a story about the depths of the human psyche, which has its own reasons to deceive...
take blame for crimes undone or done as to protect themselves or others.
who knows...
This was just 14 pages long on eBook (and 6 pages on paper), yet it had the ability to make my classmates and I crazy. Read it, and you'll find yourself doing this face:
Who is speaking the truth? Interesting novella.
نوشتههای آکوتاگاوا اونقدرها سرراست نیستند، پر از تناقضهای مخصوص فلسفه شرق و البته پر از غم.داستان خودش خیلی سرراستِ ماجرای یک زن و شوهر که راهزنی به زن تجاوز میکند و شوهر هم به قتل میرسد! اما آکوتاگاوا از همین روایت کوتاه چنان پارادوکسهای زندگی را بیرون میکشد که شاید بشود گفت به غیر خودش کسی قادر به این کار نیست.
نوشته‌های آکوتاگاوا اونقدرها سرراست نیستند، پر از تناقض‌های مخصوص فلسفه شرق و البته پر از غم.داستان خودش خیلی سرراستِ ماجرای یک زن و شوهر که راهزنی به زن تجاوز می‌کند و شوهر هم به قتل می‌رسد! اما آکوتاگاوا از همین روایت کوتاه چنان پارادوکس‌های زندگی را بیرون می‌کشد که شاید بشود گفت به غیر خودش کسی قادر به این کار نیست.
Ժողովածուի պատմվածքներից ամենից շատը հենց «Թավուտումը» հավանեցի։ Ոճը հետաքրքիր էր։ Փիլիսոփայությունն էլ։ Չնայած, ինչպես միշտ՝ «ճապոնական-խորհրդավոր»։ Մշակույթին երևի շատ պիտի ծանոթ լինել, նրբերանգները հասկանալու համար։ Արժեր՝ միանշանակ։
ALWAYS WORTH REREADING!
Seven different accounts of the same murder from seven different characters. All in a short story of about thirty pages.Incredible! Wow!A must read!
A short story detailing a murder case from the perspective of several witnesses to it, the book served as the inspiration for Akira Kurosawa's film "Rashomon".
We are given the details of the case by a wood-cutter and a priest, who come across the murder scene, and recall seeing a young man and woman travelling that way.
We are then given the accounts of the thief Tajomaru, the woman, and the man who has been killed (through a medium) all of whom remember the events slightly differently, and all of whom are willing to take responsibility for the death themselves.
Toàn bộ câu truyện ghi lại những lời khai của các nhân chứng về một vụ án mạng trong rừng, nhưng họ lại có những lời kể hoàn toàn khác nhau.
Akutagawa gợi mở từng chi tiết một, dẫn dắt từng tình huống vào đúng thời điểm cần bung, làm độc giả bị rơi vào mê cung của những lời dối trá sâu tới mức không hiểu sự thật của vụ án mạng, cũng như bản chất con người là gì.* In a Grove (tên gốc: Rashomon) đã được Kurosawa chuyển thể thành tác phẩm điện ảnh Rashomon kinh điển.
One event.
Six different versions of what happened.
A unique story about humanity, the lies we tell and how we tell them.
I like the unique and creative premise of the story.
I like this story because the reader has no idea what the truth is and will never know.
There are no pretty ribbons tied up perfectly to make happy ending.
The story is of an event.
After reading the story I did watch Akira Kurosawa's version of the movie (Rashomon)and it did help with perspective.
Akira added his own style and elements to make his version unique and I loved the ending.
The story brings about seven accounts of testimonies and confessions of the seven who are supposed to be involved, directly or peripherally, to a murder that happened in particular grove in the mountains.
A criminal is among the seven people in the story, but the murderer is hard to pin-point at.
Together with the criminal, accounts of a woodcutter, a traveling buddhist priest, a policeman, an old woman, the murdered man, and the murdered man's wife come up and complete the complexity of the story.
The murderer can be him or her.
"Пустяки, убить мужчину – обыкновенная вещь! Когда хотят завладеть женщиной, мужчину всегда убивают. Только я убиваю мечом, что у меня за поясом, а вот вы все не прибегаете к мечу, вы убиваете властью, деньгами, а иногда просто льстивыми словами. Правда, крови при этом не проливается, мужчина остается целехонек – и все-таки вы его убили. И если подумать, чья вина тяжелей – ваша или моя – кто знает?!"
Wow! I can't make head or tail of this little story, full of inconsistencies.Does Akutagawa wish to demonstrate the ineptitude of the human mind to make sound observations, especially under extreme duress, or was he just plain nuts?
In a Grove is definitely a must-read short story. I liked the author's style of telling the events of the story and the complexity of the whole story will draw the readers in. It also entices the readers to really think and guess about the true order of events and the real murderer.
A lonely light lingered on the cedars and mountains...
Interesting multiple-perspective piece.
Rashomon! Didn't know this was the story that inspired Kurosawa.
To answer these questions, readers should know that the author Ryunosuke portrays the egotistic, and self-respecting nature of humanity through the use of multiple characters' viewpoints in the book.First, Tajomaru lies on his confession because he wants to remain as a man who fought for justice and beat a samurai, not as a notorious brigand; he wants to be remembered this way as a strong and just hero.
Tajomaru lies on his confession because he wants to be remembered as a man who has fought for justice and beaten a samurai, Takehiko after he dies.The second main character, Masago betrays her husband, Takehiko.
There are people who might revel in confusion and find it a rich vein in which to examine the human psyche and its relation to truth.
I am not one of them.This might explain why I did not buy into what Akutagawa was trying to put across.
The concept that there are multiple truths to a particular event and each version has equal weight depending on the observer.
Maybe it was because the book was set in the early 20th century and times were different but still...A reader's enjoyment of this story will mostly depend on their own temperament as such the book should be approached cautiously.
"Oh come on, killing a man is not as big a thing as people like you seem to think. If you're going to take somebody's woman, a man has to die. When I kill a man, I do it with my sword, but people like you don't use swords. You gentlemen kill with your power, with your money, and sometimes just with your words: you tell people you're doing them a favour. True, no blood flows, the man is still alive, but you've killed him all the same. I don't know whose sin is greater-yours or mine."
