https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/181440.Seven_Daughters_and_Seven_Sons
It was my first time reading a book about a young girl that dresses as a boy and challenges the whole world that surrounds her, from her upbringing and family to the very society around her.
I felt angry when her own mother tried to push her into roles that were socially acceptable at the time for HER OWN GOOD.
Buran was perfect back then but now I wonder why she never tried to connect with her sisters and teach them things herself.
To help her family get some badly needed money (and to avoid having to marry anyone unpleasant), Buran dresses up as a boy and sets off to make her fortune.
There's a truly fantastic scene where a disguised Buran and Prince Mahmud go for a walk at dusk, and then—as boys do—decide to play a little chase-y chase-y.
When Mahmud catches Buran, he pins her against a wall and they have a total moment—at which point Mahmud of course has a minor gay freak out.
And hey, besides this and The True Confessions of Charlotte Doyle, does anybody know of any other good crossdressing/genderfuck-y YA novels?
وقتی گمشده شهرزاد را دیدم،یاد این افتادم و گفتم حتما اینم باید همین دوروبرها باشد!بدون اینکه هیچ شبا
کتاب آشنا و دوستداشتنی. مثل چای که هر بار میدانی با چه طعمی مواجه خواهی شد اما هر بار از نوشیدنش لذت میبری. این داستان فضای آشنایی داشت، و مطمئناً از همان صفحههای اول میتوانستی متوجه شوی چطور پیش خواهد رفت و تمام خواهد شد، اما انقدر شیرین و دلچسب بود که باز هم از خواندنش لذت میبردی.
کتاب آشنا و دوست‌داشتنی. مثل چای که هر بار می‌دانی با چه طعمی مواجه خواهی شد اما هر بار از نوشیدنش لذت می‌بری. این داستان فضای آشنایی داشت، و مطمئناً از همان صفحه‌های اول می‌توانستی متوجه شوی چطور پیش خواهد رفت و تمام خواهد شد، اما انقدر شیرین و دل‌چسب بود که باز هم از خواندنش لذت می‌بردی.
However, aside from this background information and one further scene involving Buran’s male cousins, there is no reason for “seven sons” to be part of the title.
Also, can you guess that Buran makes a very close male friend (who happens to be a prince) with whom she begins to fall in love?
The writers started the book with the sort of flowy language one would expect from a Persian-y feeling story, but quickly deteriorated into “I’m coming, Father,” or “My heart felt sick with worry” (not actual quotes).
Buran is the middle of seven daughters of a poor merchant.
She becomes a servant and then apprentice to a wily merchant.
Now known as Nasir, she is a partner in a very successful business in the port city of Tyre.And in Tyre she meets Prince Mahmud and gradually becomes friends with him.So we have a sweet romance, a girl doing something to save herself storyline, all in an exotic time and place.
I also enjoyed the very mannered language that reflects the oral tradition of the story's origin and adds to the 'once upon a time...' feeling of the story.Lovely all the way around.
خیلی قشنگ بوووود T---T واقعا از خوندنش لذت بردم...رمنسش عالی بود.... عالی عالی T------T+ کل کتاب رو توی فاصله ی بین کلاس هام خوندم XD
I love, love, love this retelling of an Iranian folktale!
Coming from that culture, you might not expect to find a story about the intelligence and empowerment of women, but that is what you get, coupled with a great love story!
I read it to my husband recently and he loved it too!
One warning: although it seems to be written for a fairly young audience I would be cautious about letting your pre-pubescent kids have at it since there is a description of a girls appearance that might not be appropriate.
Might be a better one to read aloud to them and edit any parts that are sketchy.
i'm crying after finishing it, crying writing this and i will be crying inside for the rest of my life because of this book.it's really really beautiful, it just pierced my heart and im so overwhelmingly happy.
This is an all time favorite of mine. I have read it several times. In a culture where only boys are valued, a girl uses her ingenuity to help herself and her family. This book has intrigue, adventure, and a bit of romance. I will definitely read it again and again.
I took a young adult literature class at BYU inbetween being an Elem. Ed major and becoming an English Major. I think this is the book that spurred the change and sealed the deal. Great book.
When she resumes her feminine identity, she cannot cast away the sense of independence she gained as easily as she cast aside the male clothing.The “blessings of Allah” Buran brings to her family and herself come to her because she has the courage to risk, pursue, and persevere.
While women do care deeply about home and family and while they want to be beautiful and attractive to men, these needs do not exclude other goals—to achieve, learn, to travel, to earn, to discover, to create.
And when Buran returns home she finds that her intelligence and daring, along with her beauty and fortune, are attracting men from all over the world to seek her hand.
So when he begins to suspect that Nasir is not exactly as he seems, his traditional education regarding women, love, and marriage is rocked to the core.I love the themes in this book: self-confidence and discovery, following the promptings of your heart, the power of a parent's faith in their child, and the importance of friendship and mutual interests between a husband and wife.
However, I only gave four stars out of five because I would recommend this book with a strong caveat: The authors necessarily place an emphasis on the gender confusion created by Buran's disguise and Mahmud's feelings toward a precious friend that he believes to be male.
I'm actually writing a review of sorts??
Amazing!) Lovely retelling of an Arabic folktale with just enough depth and theme to make it a proper story.
I throughly enjoyed this and was in great need of it's fairytale ending.
Buran was fANTASTIC and I adored her so.
I thought it was great how she grew to become as clever as Queen Shahrazad, of the childhood stories she'd heard.
I wasn't sure what I thought of Buran and Mahmhud near the end but I think they both came to realize, through their initial friendship, what love truly was, and that was most satisfying.
This is another really sweet romantic-ish (not your normal romance) story.
She is trying to make money for her family, goes "undercover" and dresses as a boy so that there's no scandal about a girl selling things - she meets a boy who thinks she's a boy and she starts liking him and of course there's tension because she can't tell him that she's a girl because of scandal and their family name and b/c he'd reject her and she doesn't want him to hate her and also because she really likes him and wants to marry him instead of stay single.
Etc. It's a really sweet book and I'll come back and write a good review later.
For now you can use the time to read the book, write a better review.
My wonderful sister gave this book to me and told me that it was great.
It was written in a way that pulled you in and made to forget what was going on around you.
I love it when a book helps me take a break from real life.It was fun to have such a great main character.
I liked going through her growing process with her.
I also really liked watching two young people that have been taught incorrect ways of looking at marriage find out that they can be best friends with the one they love.
Seven daughters & seven sons, 1982, Barbara Cohen عنوان: هفت پسر، هفت دختر : رمان نوجوانان؛ نوشته: باربارا کوهن (کهن)؛ بهیه لاوجوی؛ مترجم: حسین ابراهیمی (الوند)؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، پیدایش، 1377، در 264 ص، شابک: ایکس - 964605577؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی قرن 20
In medieval Baghdad lives a poor shopkeeper named Abu al-Banat, who has seven daughters but no sons.
When Abu al-Banat, remembering the childhood closeness between his beloved fourth daughter Buran and her eldest cousin Hassan, suggests a match between the two, he (and Buran) are ridiculed and insulted by both Hassan and his father.
After all, that’s what her uncle is doing with the help of his seven sons: one is in Cyprus, one in Damascus, and so on, each handling the family business in a different city.Good, solid adventure, a great romance.
Some humour, a healthy dose of a great relationship between a father and the daughter he’s so proud of.
I first discovered it as a kid in a pile of books my sister was preparing for her classroom.
Maybe it would be nice to fall in love with one someday.
Maybe it would be wonderful to be loved, so completely, by one someday.If I read this for the first time as an adult, I don't know what I'd think, but I hope I would've recognized it as the beautiful story it is.
But I'm glad I found it as a kid.
I'll be honest, I'm usually not a HUGE fan of stories about "powerful women" because usually they seem repetitive: "Men are oppressive; oppressed woman rises up and does something incredible; suck it, men." At least that's how they usually seem to me.
This book was a wonderful refreshment and a great love story to boot.
While yes, Buran obviously lives in a time and place where women lack many rights, she manages to overcome these obstacles boldly, but is surprisingly modest and closed about her successes.
And she STILL is able to love a man who's deserving of her.
Great book.
I suck at reviews.
Lovely fairytale retelling with a strong female lead who disguises herself like a man to find her fortune. I especially enjoyed Buran's interactions with her father - it was very easy for me to get lost in this world.
As for dressing as a man, I think this book is a great example of why the idea is fun, for me, at least.
Buran had no intention or interest in becoming a man, she dressed as a man to be able to do the things she wanted to do.
I loved the beauty of the culture in the time period, the flowing clothes, the (sometimes) overbearing customs.
I loved Buran's family, especially her father.
There is friendship and attraction, hidden in the stylized retelling of Buran's point of view.I think the cover dates the book, somewhat.
Here's a quick description: This book is based on an Iraqi folktale of a daughter (4th of 7 sisters) who strives to lift her family from their state of poverty by starting up a business in a foreign city by pretending to be a man.
The book is split into three different parts, the first and third from the POV of Buran while the second is from the POV of Mahmud.
(view spoiler)[ The second was that one of the villains (though more a troublemaker than anything else) in the story (Mahmud's jealous friend) wasn't dealt with to my satisfaction.
It is a beautiful coming-of-age, kick-ass fairy tale with a delightfully sweet romance and strong familial (especially filial) relationships.
this story was somewhat reminiscent of the alanna series, what with the cross dressing to fulfill a dream.
i’m not all that well versed in arabian culture, but from what i know of it this story seemed to be a valid representation.
when buran’s father gets sick he realizes that his family will be in trouble if anything happens to him, and as a result he allows buran to go out into the world, as a man, to try to better their family’s fortune.
the story was set up well and the characters were discussed in sufficient detail, or enough so that a reader of the target age wouldn’t be left wondering anything.
Actually this book, from my daughter's schoolbooks, is an expanded version of an old Iraqi folktale.
Buran is a daughter of Malik, a poor shopkeeper who has the burden of seven daughters and no sons.
His brother, in contrast, is quite wealthy and has seven sons.
(As opposed to, say, giving his ol' bro some cash or something.) What neither man takes into account, however, is Buran's cleverness.
What makes me want to put this book on my shelf is the way Ms. Cohen and Ms. Lovejoy flesh out the folktale and make the characters three dimensional.

I thought it was a very good book up until the third part, and then it was still good but they added a paragraph in there, where you ask yourself why? It didn't need to be said. As girls you know your anatomy but boys don't need to read about that...and even as girls it didn't need to be explained. I didn't want to know about Buran's shape or body! Overall it was a good book...but that little paragraph ruined the rest of the book for me.
Loved the romance in this story, it was so unconventional, yet very believable. The heroine is one of those strong female characters you can't help but root for and the hero is very alpha male and handsome while also having a soft spot for Buran. Cute romance and I recommend!
This is the perfect read for a young adult who needs a push to like reading. I love to promote these books because I have seen how they can change a young person's attitude toward reading. Fun story and intriguing conflict...
I really like this book, what a train ride! I felt that at first the train started out kind of slow and just as it was picking up speed it made a quantum leap jump over a cliff. Then it started moving super fast and then it slowed down to like snail pace. Still good.
