https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8696.Last_Chance_to_See
But none of it sings like Last Chance to See. This book is a passionate, loving, critical look at the human species and the influence we've had on our planet-mates.
That's what makes it such a powerful book, and one everyone should read.
He never preaches, and the book always keeps the tone of a story told around a campfire, among friends.If this doesn't inspire anyone who reads it to care just a little bit more about the non-human, but still precious, species that inhabit Earth, then I will give up trying to save them tomorrow.
But at the same time, Adams's courage, compassion, humility, and humor make a compelling case for humanity's continued existence as a species.
This book is a travelogue, about a writer and a zoologist who went around the globe in search of exotic animals that are seriously endangered, almost extinct.
In this book, he again adds humorous touches, but not nearly as far-fetched.Douglas Adams and Mark Carwardine travel around the world in order to get a story for the BBC.
Douglas Adams tells his story with incisive remarks about the people they meet, the cultures, and the manner in which the cultures view their endangered species.
The book includes a selection of photographs, that illustrate each of the sought-after animals.
I especially appreciate the reason that Adams gives for protecting these endangered animals.
Douglas Adams went around the globe along with zoologist Mark Carwardine in search of various species of animals and birds which were on the verge of extinction in 1985 (when this book was written).
But not in an amateurish way, I tried hard enough until I got bored, i.e. after 15 minutes!)And one thing that I cannot understand is why even some educated people consider the extinction of various species a natural phenomenon!
And just because Al Gore supports the campaign against global warming doesn’t make it a conspiracy.
(1985) – Extinct (2012) (Only 7 remain in captivity)Mountain Gorrillas (Zaire- Africa) – 280 nos.
Brilliant book. So funny, yet so deeply saddening... this is among the most evocative and life-changing books that I have read. This title still haunts me and informs a lot of my concerns about the environment and human inaction.
Humanity isn't even the first single species to cause the mass extinction of a huge variety of animals: algae did it millions of years before humans even existed.Animals compete for the same resources, and whenever there are changes in the environment, be they geographical or climatic, there are going to be extinctions as different species come into contact in new ways.
The Chernobyl site is now one of the most lush and wild natural preserves in all of Russia.There is no single, static way for the world to be--the environment and the animals that live in it are always changing, and to some degree, humans complaining about the extinction of certain specialized animals is like an old person complaining that the world isn't 'like it used to be'.
After the unexpected meeting they decided to find more endangered animals and write a book for them to support the facilities and minor projects of the government in preserving those animals.They went through a very serious but hilarious journey and met nice researcher and people to guide us readers to explore the secret behind the thick forest of India, New Zealand, China and the famous Dodo's Island, Mauritius.
*Sings True ColorsRating - Last Chance to See by Douglas Adams and Mark Carwardine, 5 Sweets and the people who cared and want to see animals that are in near extinction.
One of those special books that, when you finish, you immediately want to find someone who hasn't read it, and press it into there hands, murmuring insistently, "you have to read this!"I'm a big Douglas Adams fan. The Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy is one of my all-time favourite series, and the Dirk Gently mysteries aren't far behind. When I set-up my Pantheon list of literary gods, Douglas Adams came straight in at Number 2 (behind Terry Pratchett) - and  Last Chance to See  was the one, key
One of those special books that, when you finish, you immediately want to find someone who hasn't read it, and press it into there hands, murmuring insistently, "you have to read this!"I'm a big Douglas Adams fan.
I will always think of rhinos as "nimble young volkswagens", and kakopos as the birds that have "forgotten that they've forgotten how to fly".One of those special books that, when you finish, you immediately want to find someone who hasn't read it, and press it into there hands, murmuring insistently, "you have to read this!"Even writing this review makes me want to go and re-read Dirk Gently...After this I read: Snow Crash
Developed as a radio show on BBC, the writing provides an account of the travels of the author with zoologist Mark Carwedine in search of endangered fauna to the corners of the earth (Japan, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zaire to name a few).
The author marvels at the ways of nature and the role of humans in protecting the species.
The tale of the kakapo mating practices or the crazy Parakeet that thinks it is a human are presented in the best possible way by a non-zoologist!Vintage Douglas Adams: “I've never understood all this fuss people make about the dawn.
Extinction is nothing new to Earth and 99.99% of all species that have ever lived are now nonextant.
Light but with a heavy heart, the book drives home the affecting point that, with our anthropocentric view of Earth, we are slowly but surely driving a lot of species towards extinction, while also not exactly helping in the evolving of new species, thanks to our truly global footprint.
And it is simply this: the world would be a poorer, darker, lonelier place without them.The book also has some wonderful anecdotes and observations from the travels of Adams and Mark Carwardine, and can quite easily take a place just as a remarkable and entertaining travelogue.
Mark Carwardine was a zoologist working for the World Wildlife Fund when he was hired by a magazine to take Douglas Adams to see the world’s rarest nocturnal lemur, the Madagascar aye-aye.
The resulting collection of ecology/travel essays is hands down one of my all time favorite books.During the course of their travels, Carwardine and Adams go to Indonesia to visit the Komodo dragon, Zaire to see the Northern White rhinoceros, New Zealand to see the Kakapo parrot, China to see the Yangtzee River dolphin and Mauritius to see the Rodrigues fruit bat.
While I do not really agree with his flagship Atheist views (even if I would much sooner classify myself as an Atheist than a "Creationist"), he does do a magnificent job of summing up the point of this book in just a few words:Of the endangered animals that Douglas Adams and Mark Carwardine set out to see, one seems to have gone for good during the intervening two decades.
For once, the specific name is well deserved.My respect also goes to Mark Carwardine, who has continued to bring the word out all these years, as well as to all the people all over the world, described in the book or not, that have devoted their lives to noble and moving ideals.
Μην σας ξεγελά το πρόχειρο εξώφυλλο και το "φτηνιάρικο" τύπωμα της συγκεκριμένης ελληνικής έκδοσης - πρόκειται για ένα άκρως διασκεδαστικό αλλά και διδακτικό οδοιπορικό, χρωματισμένο με οικολογικές και χιουμοριστικές πινελιές, γραμμένο από έναν από τους σπουδαιότερους σύγχρονους κωμικούς συγγραφείς. Διαβάστε το εάν σας ενδιαφέρει να μάθετε για διάφορα είδη ζώων από όλο τον κόσμο που κινδυνεύουν με εξαφάνιση, αν σας αρέσουν τα ντοκυμαντέρ για την φύση ή αν προτιμάτε το γράψιμο με μία γερή δόση καυστικής σάτυρας.
An unexpected problem I've encountered with living in a massive city like New York is that I periodically experience really intense cravings for nature (see: the biophilia hypothesis).
Along with Mark Cawardine, he went to try and find some of the rarest species on the planet in the wild.The aye-aye in Madagascar:(Basically what I imagined Dobby to look like before the HP films came out)The Komodo Dragon in Indonesia (There might be a bit of forced perspective going on in this picture)The kakapo in New Zealand(When Mark Cawardine returned thirty years later with Stephen Fry, one of these little fellas er...
Incidentally, the narrator of this book is the only reason I was able to get through it.
Douglas Adams wrote the famed "Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy"; he's very adroit at word-wielding, and has a brilliantly humorous voice, the likes of which I've not seen since Erma Bombeck.
The book serves as a humorous memoir of several trips to see endangered species of animals across the globe, and certainly it raises awareness of important issues.
As an animal lover, some of the anecdotes are quite disturbing for me, but I've seen worse in other books.
Have you ever read a book laughing so hard that tears are streaming down your face and then in the next five minutes, crying copiously and having very different tears stream down the same old face?
I always knew that the dodo was extinct but today I sat in a corner and wept for a full fifteen minutes because there are no dodos left in the world anymore.
It makes you see things about the world and what we've done with it, things you always knew (but possibly were never interested in being aware of) in such a stark new light that it's like a whack to the back of your head.
It’s a funny book because it’s Douglas Adams, but very sad thinking about all these animals on their way to going extinct… The book was written in 1990, and I was curious to see if any of the species are doing better.
I know that the Northern White Rhinos are essentially extinct… there are just 3 left.
I was happy to see that they are still alive: there are now over 100 of these weird birds.
(altho it's weird that the last updates on many sites were in 2014, I hope everything is still okay with that program.)
In this book, Douglas Adams teams up with zoologist Mark Cawardine, as they travel around the world, documenting critically endangered species.
By which I mean species with barely enough members to survive the next few decades, if that.As always, it's a treat to read Douglas Adams' writing, even when it's non-fiction.
As the team documents species after species, you gain a glimpse into the world of wildlife conservation and how their tireless efforts are being challenged at every step by greed, industrialization, and often just plain human negligence and ignorance.The impassioned way Adams himself writes about the sheer magic and beauty the world's biodiversity offers us suffuses the book with a spirited sense of hope and the need to look at the world's biodiversity with more wonder, to realise just what's at stake.
It is, essentially, a book about the world and what we are doing to it and to each other.I want to point out something else as well.
I love animals, and that was a prime motivator for reading this book, but I don't think one has to love them to appreciate this book, especially considering the fact that I am now questioning the wisdom of protecting some of these animals, which was the reverse of the intention.
It is about life, and even, at some points, about religion.This is a remarkably funny and witty book and I feel that anyone who wants to really look at their own world needs to read it.
Douglas Adams.
Huh?I suppose I shouldn't be surprised, given that this is Douglas Adams, but Last Chance to See is an excellent and thought provoking book, which is part laugh-out-loud travelogue (including an interesting reminder of what China was like just 25years ago), and part conservation pleaIt's power as a book lies is in the juxtaposition of the sharp observations and comic stories of his travels with Mark Carwardineand the plight of the animals it describes.
My husband urged me to read this book when it was first written but I feared it would be too depressing.
One day after Christmas it finally caught my eye and said...read me now before it's too late.
A little parable for animals and plants in obscure places....appreciate and notice and cherish me now......
Before it's too late....Like the Yangtze River dolphin Douglas Adams is no more but the book celebrates the dedication of those all over the world who are fighting, sometimes against enormous odds to fight for the right of indigenous species to live long and prosper.
LAST CHANCE TO SEE, written by Douglas Adams (yes, THAT Douglas Adams!) and Mark Carwardine, is about the adventures they went on around the world to locate and actually see some of the rarest animals and plants.
They are “Critically Endangered” and kept on predator-free islands in an effort to save them.Unfortunately, the Baiji Dolphin, who last lived in the filthy Yangtze River, is classified as “Functionally Extinct”.
It is still listed as “Critically Endangered”.I’m thankful that Adams was able to have these adventures and pass the information on.
Book reviews remind me of high school and sweating over how to make a great book sound appealing without giving away too much information. I'm not sure how to do it so I'll just say that this book is fantastic and I loved it.. It's moving, funny and fill of interesting and sobering information that left me awe struck at how beautiful the world is and saddened by how destructive humans are.
Brilliant, comedic, story-telling genius seems about right when describing this legend.This is a real adventure story circa 1985 about how Douglas Adams-science fiction comedy writer and by his own admission 'an extremely ignorant non-zoologist to whom everything that happened would come as a surprise', and Mark Cawardine- Zoologist, travel the world to look for endangered species in a quest which takes them across continents through Madagascar, Komodo Island, Zaire, New Zealand, China and Mauritius...
The book left me with a sense of responsibility for our planet, an empathy for endangered species, and a strong disgust for the human species, especially for those who poach/hunt animals and clear swathes of natural habitat for profit.
Last Chance to See chronicles Douglas Adams and Mark Carwardine's trips to far flung places to see, and call attention to, endangered and borderline extinct animal species.
I listened to the audio, read by Douglas himself (except for the very end which is read by Mark Carwardine), and it was brilliant.
But, in the Chinese people's defense, it seems that they truly didn't know that there were dolphins in the river until almost too late, and then they scrambled to help...
UPDATED!Douglas Adams' famous book about his travels to animals that are about to be extinct.
Maybe, if more people had read this book sooner, the statistics would look a bit better today.
Let's take a look at how the animals that Adams visited in 1990 are doing 16 years later.Komodo Dragon 1990: appr.
So I guess it's safe to say that the Baiji is extinct, and, like Adams said, it was the last chance to see one.
Ever.Classified Critically Endangered, possibly extinct.
(Source: IUCN)Mauritius Kestrel1990: I can't seem to find the information in the book.2006: ca.
I had been told "if you like Adams, you have to read this." Well, no, I don't, as I don't want to see someone I admire struggle somewhere else.
I don't want to watch Vonnegut fail completely as a father in real life.Nothing he writes will ever take the place of HHGG.
I would even - please do not lynch me for this - allow him to forego writing HHGG if it meant we got a similarly-sized body of naturalist literature.
I wish, now, that there was a similarly incorrectly-labeled "trilogy" of these books to put on my shelf, as there is with HHGG.
In 1985 Douglas Adams and Mark Carwardine set off in the hope of spotting the Madagascar aye-aye, a nocturnal lemur nearing extinction.
The trip was a success and so the duo came back together a couple years later to seek out more animals that were verging on the brink with the idea that their travels and Adams' writing would shine a much needed spotlight on said brink.
Like the Madagascar aye aye, my encounter with Adams' Last Chance to See adventuring was a nocturnal one.
The spotlight shone in Adams' humor and intellect, both fleshing out the weight of their experience.
I could go on about Douglas-Adams-as-a-synonym-for-brilliancy but it's been done.
This book makes for a very pleasant reading.
To be honest, it is quite difficult to mesh "wildlife conservation" and "humor" but this book handles it very well without missing out on the theme.
Each of the book's chapters talk about a different animal species in a different geography and entails the adventure of the author and his companion (Mark Carwardine) who were assigned to cover endangered animals by the BBC.
The book ends with a Sibylline story which seems to be scaringly apt for our times.
It adds a powerful punch to the book's message and drives home the point.http://musingsmith.blogspot.com/2016/...
Fun travel romp through far-off places to look at cool animals. A little shallow, though-- not enough science to make it educational and interesting, too little culture or political commentary to make it opinionated and interesting. Give me more of all of it, more descriptions of ecosystems and the roles of these animals within them, more discussion of the impact and interactions of different human economies and cultures on these ecosystems, and more hilarious travel dialogue of Adams realizing that just because some place is far away and exotic for him doesn't mean it's undiscovered and empty of other people.
Douglas Adams is the funniest writer I've ever encountered. You know someone has a talent for humor when they can write a book about endangered species and make it hilarious. Adams does treat the subject with the respect it deserves, however. Reading this book will really make you step back and look at how we humans have destroyed the habitats of so many unique and interesting creatures. Because the issue of conservation is so important, I think this is a book that everyone would benefit from reading.
