https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/228261.Soul_Harvest
First of all, some complain that the writing style is too sophomoric.
Yes, the writing style is simple, but that just makes the book(s) easier to read.
The character Chloe is as strong a female lead as anyone can hope for.The biggest improvement in this book over the preceding books is that the writers have really developed their suspense.
Without giving too much away, let me just say that in the beginning, there are two characters who are missing, and it takes the entire book to find out what has become of them.
I very much enjoyed this book and look forward to the rest.
Book 3 ends with a bang…or better yet, an earthquake.
This is a world-wide earthquake that wipes out nearly a quarter of the world’s already depleted population.
With our Tribulation Saints scattered world-wide, the need to know where everyone is will have you picking up book 4 without a moment’s hesitation.
Has he now lost his second wife?Chloe was last seen running out of the safe house.
Is it fair for the Tribulation Saints to turn their back on non-believers?The second and third Trumpet Judgements are threatening to wipe out yet more of the world’s population.
This is a book I absolutly could not put down! I finished it in 2 days flat! If you love adventure,detirmination,and,are or want to become a christian,then you NEED to read this book! My life has never been the same since i've started the Left Behind books!This is, by a landslide, the best book i've ever read (and that says alot 'cause i'm a BIG reader!).I'm waiting for the next book at my libary!I CAN'T WAIT!
Read this in the library so I wouldn't give the authors royalties. What a fraudulent piece of shit this series is.
Good things about this book:1.
Rayford sometimes reminds me of a robot, with the whole "what are feelings, creator?" thing he has going on.3.
Exactly 50% of the major female characters in this book are pregnant, and the only reason that Amanda and Loretta aren't is the fact that they are apparently too old to bear children.
The pages upon pages devoted to Tsion's not at all scintillating web forum, which is apparently the hottest thing around because he is such an engaging writer.
Tsion's an okay character, but his web stuff is pure drudgery.
Why I hate these books, in two sentences: "Sandy Moore had been at the table with her newspaper and coffee when a huge oak tree crashed through the roof with such force that it flattened her and the heavy wood table... Had not the rest of her body been compressed to inches, she might have appeared to be dozing."Compressed to inches? ah... ah... AHAHAHAHAHAHAHHAHAHAHATerrible, terrible writing. Terrible.
Ridiculous Fun.
Jenkins in their book “Soul Harvest” Book Four in the Left Behind series published by Tyndale House Publishers shows us The World Takes Sides."Soul Harvest," picks up after the wrath of the Lamb at the end of book three - a devastating earthquake that killed 25 percent of the earth's population.
By the end of the book, "the world was taking sides" - between following God or Nicolae Carpathia.Dr. LaHaye and Jerry Jenkins provide a fictional background for the real events that the final book of The Bible, Revelation, speak about: the end times.
I've read this book before but I wanted to get back into the series and I couldn't remember the whole story so I re-read it.I have to say that I was very entertained by this book.
I think that this series is so well written that if you don't believe in the Rapture that you would enjoy the story line.
In fact I think that this is a very well written book.If you have not read any of the Left Behind books I would encourage you to start at the begining.
Overall I think this is a great book and a great series.
After getting wrapped up in the characters and feeling the need to find out what happens to them was the only reason I continued to read all the books in the series.
The authors definately knew how to draw someone in and keep it just entertaining enough for them not to put it down and never think of it again - barely.
I read the series for it's fiction appeal, not the biblical meanings, so was a bit disappointed in the writings.
But, they sure knew how to sell books, which seems to be part of the reason there are so many.
Due to my personal belief in the Bible, I have found this entire series to be extremely entertaining and sometimes a little scary. I strongly recommend reading the series in chronological order, or there will be a lot of details that won't make sense. I realize atheists, agnostics, other religions, and even some Christian sects will scoff at the whole concept of the series, and that is their prerogative. I still think they might find the books entertaining, regardless of their theistic leaning. I definitely recommend reading these books.
This was the fourth book in the Left Behind series and it was really intense. The book built off of where the last one left off. The novel was so intense and filled with so many plot twists that it will keep you reading till the very end. ProsIntenseClift hangersMakes you want to read in one sittingNon stop actionGood writing style Plot developmentCharacter development ConsNon
My favourite one so far! So much action for the Tribulation Force. Some sad goodbyes too but so compelling! I'm hooked. I definitely want to see how the TF's get to the end!
You feel like you know the characters and my heart grew so attached to them!!
Having read the previous three books in the sequence, I would have to say this book was not only the best story so far but it was the most well written of the books.
I was mesmerized by the many interesting interpretations of Revelation throughout the book especially the part with the Seal.
Every character was so real and raw and their boldness and zeal was inspiring.
My one complaint was several questions that were mysterious throughout the entire book were still left unanswered at the end and it just seemed too abrupt!!
I read what I did of this series because it was one of the few books my then-husband would read, and I wanted to be able to discuss books with him. I won't be reading more of these books, or re-reading any of the ones I already read, and reading them didn't help give me and my ex-husband anything interesting to talk about anyway since he didn't want to hear the ways in which my opinion on the series varied from his.
(hide spoiler)] I definitely thought the authors improved on how they related any "necessary" backstory for each character to the reader in this book.(view spoiler)[This stood out to me because the heroes are supposed to be Christians, yet they come across as so blood-thirsty and filled with hate/anger!
hahahah (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[There was also a long speech/lesson by Tsion ben-Judah about the global earthquake in reference to it being the judgment of a "loving and merciful God" in light of how many people died.
(hide spoiler)] I am actually glad that I reread this book a second time.
The events in  Soul Harvest , book four in the Left Behind Series, are a continuation of the action begun at the end of Nicolae. The world is reeling after a devastating natural disaster. Buck and Rayford are searching for their wives, making new friends along the way, and leading folks to the Savior as the opportunities arise. Important lives are lost. But eventually those of the Tribulation Force who are left gather for encouragement and to make a new plan. Then they’re off again to various co
But eventually those of the Tribulation Force who are left gather for encouragement and to make a new plan.
So the authors came up with a special mark that appears on the forehead of every true believer.
This book also highlights the effect on the culture after the Holy Spirit is taken out of the world.
During the story, one of the great accomplishments of the world leader is reestablishing television signals.
It’s a great illustration of how the presence and prayers of Christians influence everything around us to some degree.
People everywhere are left grieving and picking up the pieces especially Rayford who is torn between how to trust a loved one's motives just months before.
I like how the destruction and having characters pick up literal and figurative pieces seem to give it an interesting theme or allegory.This one is great and will leave the reader shocked at the opening chapters to find out who has lived in the "wrath of the Lamb" quake and who has perished in its wake.And it contains a very intriguing and clever plot point involving Rayford's plight to find his wife.((((SPOILER)))) He is left wondering if he should hope she is alive as it would mean she is a mole and a secret enemy to the Tribulation Force or be just one of them and have perished in a plane crash which is where she was supposed to have been.This book is great.

This novel, like the two before it, dragged in some places.
At the end, it sped up very quickly.
It was like the authors were rushing to get to the end.
It was mostly about Buck and Rayford trying to find their loved ones.
Rayford discovered some disconcerting things about Amanda that he refuses to believe until he finds proof one way or the other.
After a massive earthquake tore apart the land and killed many people, Chloe is left with broken bones and wounds on one side of her body.
During his search to find her, Buck discovers from a doctor Chloe is pregnant.
There was what should have been more action/suspenseful moments but the writing just didn't leave me feeling like I was reading something dramatic so it was a bit of a let down.
You did see more of some of the interesting characters, like Ritz, from the other books which I enjoyed.
There was a world wide earthquake which leaves 1/4 of the population dead but within a day you have cell service?
In the middle of a shoot out, running for there lives they are going to take cell phone call?The scriptures that it quotes are interesting and thought provoking which I think is the authors goal so that was done well.
Again I don't know if this is actually the way God will work out this prophecy (I'm a Christian and have no problem with accepting the truth of the book of Revelation).
It's (their) only real failure as far as I'm concerned is that the writing itself isn't all that great.Again, While I may not agree with the theology in this book that is not a problem for me.
The writers are sincere and that's great.
i just think they went a little far by the end in story, and didn't do a very good job in the writing.
I personally liked this book.
I loved the drama and suspense in this one.
Is Amanda really a plant by Nicolae?
I'd like to think not.
Buck and Rayford are still my two favorite characters, albeit they are the 2 main characters.
I also liked the addition of Mac into the cast, especially because Rayford really needs a friend.
I especially loved the scene between Rayford and Mac when Ray discovers Amanda's body.
My issue with this book is the ending part where the writers just breeze through so many events that are actually quite important in the story.
This book has been a great read. I love that for over half the book both Rayford and Buck are looking for there loved ones. The devastation of the earth quake and the prophecies that unfold in front of the readers eyes brings an excitement and suspense to the story and keeps you on the edge of your seat the whole way through. I love this book and how the accuracy of the biblical prophecies gives you a look on how the end times might actually happen. This is a great book and I highly recommend it.
Oh man-it left me on a cliffhanger.
Thank God I already have the next book on my shelf.
I wouldn't want to wait to go buy it or check it out!
Rayford is left wondering the truth about Amanda, and more seals and judgements are coming true.
Hattie has secrets that she told the rest of the Tribulation Force but Rayford has not heard.
He thinks it's about Amanda, and he doesn't want to believe that she might not be who he thought she was.
This book is great.
Can't wait to read the next one!
READ IT!
This is the fourth installment in the "Left Behind" Christian book series. I find these books to be quick & enjoyable reads. These novels are something that I find a person reads entirely for plot or because it falls in line with their belief system. The writing style is not outstanding or very advanced. However, I do enjoy reading these novels. The action is exciting and I grow attached to the characters and want to find out what will happen next.
Finished this book but forgot to do a review on it. I loved the book enough to give it 4.5 stars. It was a great stepping stone in this very interesting series.This book had it "oh yeah" moments but could have gone a bit further in explaining a few details which would have filled out the main theme. It is the good VS evil being stomped into your brain, very effective indeed. Would I read it again: yes. Would I recommend it to others: yes.
I couldn't get into this book for some reason. unrealistic in the beginning too.
I still contend that the writing is very good although I think it’s time to take a two day break and get some things done but I have finished four of these books and I think there are eight more to go and I can’t find a complete list anywhere so I will keep looking.
I don’t like the character of Hadi I haven’t liked her from the beginning and I still can’t figure out what happens to her and I think that’s intentional.
I need to catch up on some writing of my own and I do say that the weather will be perfect for for reading these books.
I'm not sure why people are so hard on the writing, perhaps it is not the very best you have ever read but it sure isn't the worst I am sure.
I read these, as most books for the message/story not to grade the author in the sense I see here.
When the end of time hits, many people are left to find their way in the 'new world'.
Book four in the Left Behind series, shows the trials of those behind and how the world is now building back up.
