https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/110032.North_to_the_Orient
Until I saw a Smithsonian exhibit a few years ago, I never realized that Anne Morrow Lindbergh flew with her husband on various trips, acting as his radio operator, navigator, & general Jack (or Jill) of all trades.
I will definitely be looking into more books & accounts of the travels & lives of both of the Lindberghs.The appendix includes various equipment lists, as well as their itinerary.
A map or maps marking their route would have also been most welcome (though Google came to the rescue as I was busy looking up the stops she discussed).
A journal of an adventure, written by the wife of the first person to fly across the Atlantic ocean, she details their air-journey northward and across the Bering Strait to end up in China, in an era before that kind of thing was possible.
More than a crazy adventure, more than it was done by a woman in that day, more than the jobs she did, she gives a different view into the people, the places, and the travel itself than other adventure travelogues have; it's personal.
In addition, she gives an intimate perspective into herself, and what a woman of that day was expected to be, even though in so many ways she was not.
Anne was the beautiful woman who married this heroic figure, the most famous man in the world at the time, who went adventuring with him as copilot and radio operator, who suffered with him after the kidnapping and death of their first child, who stuck with him when his reputation bottomed out in the late 1930s and early 1940s, who became an environmentalist, who found her voice as a writer of exceptional skill.Yes, adults who had been around in the late 1930s and early 1940s knew Charles Lindbergh was a Nazi sympathizer, anti-semite, and racist.
There were some amusing parts, but largely it a somewhat detached view of the journey, cherry picking the parts she wished to write about, ignoring the others.It is the 1930s, and the author is feeling underwhelmed by the media as they prepare to leave, I enjoyed this little sequence:To explain - interviewers are speaking to the author and her husband separately,but within earshot, and Anne is not really interested in commenting, saying 'Sorry, I really haven't anything to say"...
Over in the corner my husband is being asked vital masculine questions, cleanly cut steely technicalities or broad abstractions.
I'm embarrassed to admit this is my first book by Anne Morrow Lindbergh. Her writing is lyrical and provides insights into a time and way of life quite foreign from my own.
The average person who hears the drone of a motor and looks up from the walls of a city street to see an airplane boring its way through the clear trackless blue above - the average person, if he stops to use his imagination, may say to himself casually, 'Free as a bird!
Oh, let us stay here, I thought, up in this clear bright world of reality, where we can see the sky and feel the sun.
Navigation was calculated using sextants and slide rulers, radio was transmitted in Morse code.However, one aspect of this snapshot of 1931 is that Lindbergh takes on a persona that,to post-feminist me, seems very bound by her time - that of the "little wife." Her husband (very rarely does she refer to him as Charles, he's always "my husband") is masculine and dynamic and decisive while Anne paints herself as ignorant and scared and practically useless.
However, she learned Morse code and how to use a radio for this flight, and spent many hours in the air sending and receiving invaluable information!
I was a little disappointed in this book.
Anne's voice floats somewhere between adventuress and poetess but never commits to either.
I really enjoyed some parts - her chapters on learning to operate the radio were particularly funny.
But other parts she waxes poetic, making broad statements about life that seem sort of flat.
I would have preferred more details about their trip - I think it's fantastic she was flying around the world with Lindy and really roughing it, seeing things the rest of the world hadn't discovered yet.
However, it's a fascinating piece of twentieth century history which alone makes it worthwhile reading.
This was a wonderful revelation of self, full of disingenuous impressions and astute observations about people, cultures, and conditions. What a lucid and personal tone. Reminds me of my grandmother, who was also a young woman in that era, telling of her adventures and laughing at herself instead of trying to dramatize the events. The tiny chapter devoted to the word "sayonara" is utterly poignant. I will have to read more of her work.
One of my most cherished reads. The world was still a enormous, exotic thing at the time of this writing. And Anne and Charles's relationship was spontaneous and full of adventure. The telling is simple and quiet, full of wonderfully observed detail. It's a welcome reminder that a change of life is just a flight away.
I enjoyed every minute of this book. She can really turn a phrase and has such poignant observations on life. Lindbergh is such a gifted writer. I can see why this was an instant national bestseller when it was first published in the 1930s.
This was an amazing book. I loved the heroism and strong female leadership. Anne was a trailblazer and a real role model for women. No matter what the era a strong woman can prevail.
I started this book last spring and I am embarrassed to admit I then lost it.
In re-arranging our bedroom a few weeks back I found it lodged behind my bedside table.
I appreciated her humor in regards to the ridiculous questions she faced as a woman.
I was curious too about how she felt about leaving her son and undertaking this journey as a parent.
I got the impression to was common for women of means to leave children in the care of nannies, so perhaps she (oddly) faced less criticism for that decision then, than a modern mother would now.
Interesting story of Anne and Charles Lindbergh's flight from Maine to Japan via the shortest northern route going across northern Alaska.
Adventure beckons!One thing that prevented me from rating this book higher is that she seems somewhat detached at times.
She's an excellent writer and does a fine job of relaying the travel experience but she never talks about how she's getting along with her husband, is she comfortable or uncomfortable in the plane, some of the day to day things about the journey.
Overall, a really good book about an amazing adventure in a totally different time.
An anecdotal account of their travels from New York to Tokyo in 1931, making the first "as the crow flies" trip by airplane, through Canada, down through Alaska Russia, and Japan.
You don't really get too much of an impression in Japan or China, as they only ever stop any where for one or two days.
Furthermore, some places they stop along the way in Canada, outposts that had never at that point seen a white woman before, probably are pretty much the same as they are now.
An aviator herself, this book chronicles the trip that she and Charles took from the Eastern US to Japan and China.
The people she encountered in the Northern Territories, Russia, and Northern Japan were fascinating and charming.
The situation in China that Charles tried to assist with was horrifying.
I found myself agreeing and identifying with several of her ideas and feelings towards the cultures she encountered.I received this copy of the book from a relative who has since passed away.
That relative was almost a pioneer herself, having gone to Japan and China in the 1950s following WWII for business.
A truly beautiful book about people and the early days of transcontinental flying.
I'd never read anything by her before (aside from a preface to a Saint-Exupery book), but now I want to read a lot more.She had such an obviously deep connection with humanity and Earth, and she expresses it SO perfectly.
Though encountering vastly different kinds of humanity is certainly an adventure, and possibly the best kind.This book is comparable to Antoine de Saint-Exupery's best flying books, although there's none of the melancholy or pessimism that can sometimes be found in his books.
What a brave adventure that Anne Morrow Lindbergh and her husband, Charles Lindbergh embarked on!
They traveled in a Lockheed Sirius plane equipped with pontoons and flew from New York to Tokyo in what would become the Polar route for commercial air travel.
I was fascinated by Anne's learning Morse code to communicate with airfields.
I enjoyed her stories about the people she met along the way in Canada, Alaska, Soviet Union, Japan and China (they helped fly doctors to people in need due to the floods of the Yangzte River).
Remembering also that this was 1931 and planes were still new-fangled machines makes this all the more amazing to read about!
A nice, fast read, short book, an incredible journey for the time, as seen through Anne Morrow Lindbergh's eyes. It put into perspective how magical being able to fly was at this time, and all the developments and change that was bringing with it. Also enjoyed her thoughts on how she was perceived as a woman doing this. She was an equal partner on this journey, and an independent person in her own right, but felt frustrated when viewed as just the wife of a famous man. Her contemplations on travel rang true for me.
This was an account of Anne & Charles Lindbergh's journey to China in 1931, going north through Canada, Alaska, and over the Bering Strait. Anne is such a descriptive, down-to-earth woman and made many observations along the way that I'm sure are not included in her husband's accounts: about the people she met, the places they landed in, emergency forced landings, the provisions they had to pack, acting as the radio operator, etc. The Lindberghs are an interesting family that I love to learn more about and I'll def. be reading more about Anne and her other stories.
I like her perspective on the life and people they met on their flight over the north route and down to Japan and China. She makes wonderful comments on how they were received and treated. I liked her comment about Russia, which applies to her whole trip. When asked how she liked it. She responded that Russia was not an it but a they and she liked them, the people. It is a quick read. I loved it.
I read a review that said that Lindberghs' description of the flooding in China in the 1930's was the best ever.So, I suffered through a dated and overwrought book by the wife of Charles Lindbergh until I got to the chapter on the floods, and it was indeed brilliantly written, just that chapter, not the whole book. So, if you are interested, skip the rest and read Chapter 19 and 20.
I loved this book - It was written by Charles Lindbergh's wife, Anne, when they took a trip to the Orient. She writes SO beautifully. The story is exciting and heartfelt and really fun to see how "things were" when the age of flight was just taking off. Would definitely recommend! I found some pictures at http://www.charleslindbergh.com/histo...
I saw her airplane in the Smithsonian.And I have the book she wrote about the flight.She was Lindbergh's wife and radioman - no radiogirl who had to learn Morse code and change coils and crystals in the radio transmitter for the different transmitting frequencies enroute.
I really nice read about an early air expedition to asia via the great circle route. The woman's perspective was refreshing and offered some good insight and laughs. Mrs Lindbergh's relatively new-ness to flying also painted the magic of flight in words that were refreshing to me.
Lindbergh's wife Anne Morrow learned Morse code and was the radio operator as Charles Lindbergh mapped out the polar route that all the jets use today to fly to Asia. I saw their plane in the Smithsonian.
Anne is the consummate writer - to the point of being poetic. I do enjoy reading her books. They provide terrific insights on husband Charles as well as the art of flying. Anne takes you back to a time during the Golden Age of Aviation and gives it new meaning - an appreciative one!
Marvelous book by the wife of Charles Lindburgh. The book is not so much a story as a collection of her thoughts as the two of them traveled in a small plane from New York to China. Her descriptions are so vivid I felt like I was there!
"North to the Orient" is a beautiful book chronicling the trip of Charles and Anne Morrow Lindbergh to China. The writing is stunning! It reads like a lyrical novel, even though it is a true story. I highly recommend this book!!!
Another gift from a friend who knew my daughter was taking flying lessons! This was written in the 1930's and I love the style of writing - so descriptive, but poetic. What an incredibly brave woman!
