https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/133430.Centennial
Michener stayed with our family for two weeks when he was writing this book.
We had a cattle ranch in southeast Wyoming and he was doing some of his ranching research with us.
He asked the sort of question that would allow someone to respond thoughtfully and in great length.
He would spend a couple years researching, asking questions, and getting to know peoples' stories for every book he wrote.
Many of the ranching stories in Centennial came from historical events that happened on our ranch.
I miss looking forward to his next book.
You could take a university course in the History of the American West and not learn as much as you can from this completely thorough fictional history by James Michener. His background research is as detailed as any writer in the genre. And he has the skill to fold those details, that history, into a fictional story that makes history come to life. I've read most of his novels and they are all exceptional, but the three that really stand out for me are Hawaii, Centennial, and The Covenant.
People talked like that?), I'm guessing based on the tone of this book that the 70s were full of people wandering around and wailing about the state of the natural environment at the hands of the evil, evil homo sapiens.
Are only descendants of Native Americans able to see and be dismayed by what kind of disaster has been wrought?I know the book was written 35 years ago.
I know that vast advancements have been made in the way things are handled out there in the past 35 years, possibly as a result of things like this book.
Taking us from the development of the different types of prehistoric animal life from dinosaurs to wolves and beavers to the arrival of man.
the beaver trappers Pasquinel and Alexander Mc Keag The journeys of Levi fleeing into the prairies with his child bride.The chapter The Massacre deals with the horrific genocide committed by the American militia against the Native American 'Indians' and spares us no horror of the massacre of the Arapaho, men, women and children murdered and mutilated.The war between cattlemen and sheepherders and the development of the town Centennial all take place here featuring a magnificent cast of engaging characters.
Another of my favorite author's-- I have yet to read one of his books I didn't thoroughly enjoy. This is a saga of a family out west and very entertaining.
I enjoyed the author’s trait of beginning his books at the start of time and develops his story and characters as time advances.
Well, I finally got around to reading not the paperback but the hefty 1974 Random House hardcover --holding the book steady and unright was a nightmare.
This novel is pure unadulterated ambitious Michener -- and great fun.
Paleontology, horses, the Oregon Trail, Colorado, Indian tribes, sugar beets, the ranchers and the cattle industry, guns, the railroads.
A Colorado saga, and the narrative does not flag.
I think it's one of his best, but not better that The Source.Of course it's not great literature; don't expect it to be, it's Michener.
And if you run across the paperback, my god, read that instead.
Michener packs a heck of a lot of historical detail into the narrative, but as I said in my original comments below, this novel seems to have better pacing than some of the more formulaic ones that were to follow.8/27/15: Michener has often been accused of cardboard characters in his epics, but I don't find that to be true of CENTENNIAL - many of the characters are larger-than-life, but the ordinary folk are quite well-drawn and believable.8/31/15: Just under 200 pages left to go, and we've finally reached the early years of the 20th Century.
I chose this book because I have decided to take a literary tour of the United States.
Having been to the south with Eudora Welty and the Optimist's Daughter, I decided to go West.
But this wasn't primarily an epic story about people and families (although it was fun watching them or their descendants show up from one era to the next)It was an epic story about the west itself and what happened there over the thousands and thousands of years that have made it what it is.
+I remember liking Michener when I was younger, but this one seemed to be all telling and no showing. Kind of boring. I got about 75% through it, but couldn't take anymore.
My favorite story of all time.
My favorite author too!I love all the characters -- who have remained with me for over 35 years.
(The book in Italian is actually titled "Colorado".)A great read about how the American west was developed -- from the prehistoric to indians to fur traders to cowboys to the American bi-centennial in 1976.
Of course the book is much better, but we enjoy revisiting the stories and characters via the tv series."James Albert Michener is best known for his sweeping multi-generation historical fiction sagas, usually focusing on and titled after a particular geographical region.
Want a big summer read to sink your teeth into?
Michener details the story of a Colorado settlement, Centennial, from the geology and the prehistoric animals all the way up to the modern day.
There's native Americans, the trappers and early settlers, cattle ranching vs.
sheep herding, con artists, the circus coming to town, the horrors of the Dust Bowl, and the modern problems of today.
Most poignant is the fate of the Arapaho people, endlessly lied to and persecuted by the American government and military.
To his credit, Michener spares the reader little of that atrocious time in history, and gives a great read in the meantime.
I like Micnener's writing and Centennial is no exception.
I learn a lot from his books.
This one could pass for a history of the settlement of the Great Plains.
But it is not just a history book dressed up as a novel, the characters are real people.
The book starts in the distant past and moves forward through the Native Americans, the fur trappers, the settlers, the ranchers and many more.
I expected the book to be centered in the Rocky Mountains, since that is what I think of when I think of Colorado, but here, the Rockies mostly form a backdrop.The book is long and a bit slow-going in spots--not for the faint-hearted.
I can see how some may be intimidated by its size, but it was worth every single word.
Michener is quite a story teller; he does it with fantastic narrative and great descriptive prose.
You would think that with a book this size he would spend a lot of extra time describing things, but he doesn't - it is the perfect amount, no filler!Also, even though this book was written in the 70s, I think the parts toward then end dealing with "modern day" Colorado translate well to 2015.If you like a great story, with detailed history, wonderful characters, etc.
DNF @ 18% I'm close to 200 pages in and we're only up to the late 18th century. I can only imagine that once it gets to the meat of the story, the part I'm looking forward to, it's going to be tedious and far too detailed. Geology, dinosaurs, mammals, buffalo, beaver, eagles, rattlesnakes, the first Native Americans, flint knappers, Apache, Cherokee, Comanche... I should have used this to put me to sleep.

The name of the author can tell you a lot about this book. His big book sagas never disappoint.It was well done as we usually expected from Michener. A western saga, that I will recommend for those that like that type of genre, life as it evolved in the 1800's and early 1900's. The ending a bit flat for me.
My dad has often described this book as his favorite, so I decided it was time for me to read it.
I never could have appreciated it as well if I hadn't spent some time living and traveling out west.
I live in the west, and water shortages and smog are very real issues that still haven't been adequately addressed.
James Michener addressed them at length, and other issues related to stewardship of the land, when this book was published over 40 years ago.
I'm so glad to have read this book, and I encourage anyone who has an interest in literature about the west to add it to their list.
Michener invites the reader to be a fellow traveler from the first animals to first humans to the modern chaos that is the American West.
Michener's characters are from all walks of life, Levi Zendt a former Quaker, Jake Pasquinel son of Pasquinel and his brother --both conflicted for being both Indian and white which lays the ground work for the entire novel.
This novel is one of my favorites-- I read it in honor of my Dad who instilled in me--a love of the American West-- it's land, people and evolving history.If you feel like getting lost and finding the real west-- take the Centennial Journey with James A.
Michener has created lush stories with engaging characters.
I just didn't care as much about the characters, and there were too many stories being told at the same time.
Oddly enough, with over 1000 pages, the end felt a bit rushed.
Great care was taken earlier in the book to craft the stories.
Towards the end, I got the feeling that it was time to "wrap it up" but Michener had too much more to say.
Perhaps this could have been two books, then Michener could have fully explored all of his time periods fully.Even with the drawback chapters, I would highly recommend Centennial to anyone.
The notion of reading a speculative history such as, say, Lincoln by Gore Vidal versus, say, a factual documentary non-fiction account by, say, DK Goodwin, would have me decisively favoring the latter, if one is going to set aside time for such an attempt.
After I read this, a new Michener book called Space came out, which I bought and read, and it was probably the first time I realized that a notable author could be truly awful.
I have read this book 5 times.
This is a book that you live as you read it.
I lived with that family of beaver, the Indians, the settlers, the cowboys, and the environmentalist down to every thought the had and feeling they felt.
Michener is more than a story teller, he is a historical scientist and a geologist.
What author but one with such a meticulous nature would even make the mountains a character that you behold and suffer with.
His undying respect and knowledge brings every word to life.I am never so lost as I am in a story my Michener.
It is a long book, but he put the same amount of effort into developing the characters of the last story as he did with his first, and never once did I feel like he was rushing a plot.
The land had changed so much by the time the book was through, I almost felt like it too was a character that we were watching, from the birth of its mountains, to the fertile cattle years and eventually to the draining of it's aquifers and smog.
This was my first Michener book, but it will not be my last!
I read this book when the mini-series was about to be released on TV.
I was working in the Wyoming State Archives/Historical Dept.
at the time, and Michener had done research there.
He acknowledged the staff there in the introduction to this book.
Because my dad's family lived in Greeley, CO, and I had family in Ft. Collins and my dad's people (Germans form Russia) were described in this book, I was very taken with it.
I still remember the excellent characters - McKeeg, Clay Basket, Potatoes Brumbaugh, etc.
Loved it loved it loved it!
I'd like to read it again.
Basically I always wondered if people just had Michener books on their shelves because they were long and impressive looking, or if they were actually good and engrossing reads.
I found the stuff about ancient times really interesting, but the more modern it got the more it lost me.
I think it is a little ridiculous to start the book in dinosaur times.
I actually felt myself getting emotionally wrapped up in these characters, and feeling sad when they died, which doesn't always happen to a reader.
There was a great deal about the treatment of Native Americans and Michener’s research is excellent here.I also enjoyed hearing how cattle were brought into Colorado and the evolution of cattle ranching from Texas longhorns to Herefords and various breeding issues.
I’m not necessarily a huge bovine lover, but as a North Dakota native, you can’t help but have an interest in cattle.And then, in the early 20th century, farming was attempted in the near desert areas.
I live in sugar beet country, so I had no idea that Colorado also had that in common with North Dakota.
A novel about Colorado and a large book in every sense of the word, Centennial is one of Michener's most successful outings.
Exposition abounds, of course, but in this case it's well balanced against the human stories.Michener starts with a somewhat didactic geology lesson and gamely presents us with the personal trials and tribulations of dinosaurs and early mammals, followed by..
This is a very dedicated writer, folks.Anyway, the human part of the book starts with the first inhabitants of the area, the Arapaho, and their initial encounter with whites.
This portion has some of the most interesting characters, the Arapaho chief Lame Beaver and the intrepid French trader Pasqinel.
I'd just finished Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee, another book that took me roughly a month to read, and my love suggested this one -- I guess his mom had had it when he was younger and he knew she liked it and thought I'd like it.
Let me just say, I've never read Michener before now.
I really liked the setup at the beginning; it reminded me of Dan Brown's Langdon setting out on a research trip - but once it started getting into the chapters (or chunks, rather) of pure unadulterated history, it started boring me.
And that was depressing, because I'd looked forward to it since the beginning pages.
Centennial was a great book due to the complex, detailed and overlapping stories it contained that covered the entire range of the West's development. This was focused on one specific town, Centennial, which is in Colorado, and thus it was also interesting to see it in relation to our visit to Colorado
An epic masterpiece of the American Southwest from a master novelist. And that says it all. If you want to see how the Southwest evolved over time, read this book. You will learn it all - from pre-historic to the domination of the Native American to their demise and the rise of modern day Southwestern culture. It is an informative and entertaining read.
