https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/69880.The_Lost_Honor_of_Katharina_Blum
Does "freedom of speech" include the right to exploit individuals and to distort evidence to serve a populist paper's financial profit as well as its wealthy, ultra-conservative, bigoted patrons' agenda?I first read Katharina Blum's story in school, and my memory of it was vague, concerned mostly with the question whether or not it was understandable that she fell in love with a criminal, helped him escape and then committed a murder after being the victim of atrociously untruthful and sensationalist press coverage in a news outlet quite similar to Daily Mail or Fox News.Rereading the short novel today, labelled a "pamphlet" by the author himself, I have a different, more nuanced impression.
"Mama I'm in Love with the criminal."- Britney Spear Katherina BlumIt seems people find a certain kind of enjoyment in seeing each other's lives going to ruins.
We love to get hold of dirt on whosoever, we can, maybe it serves as a kind of moral victory for our own boring selves, plus it is a good source of entertainment.
Kind of like in Shirley Jackson's The Lottery.Katherina Blum probably didn't even enjoy this scape-goating by media.
Until she fell in love with a criminal and go all Bella Swan for him after a single dance.
Introduction, by Kurt AndersenTranslator's Acknowledgment--The Lost Honor of Katharina Blum
338. The Lost Honor of Katharina Blum, Heinrich BöllThe story deals with the sensationalism of tabloid news and the political climate of panic over Red Army Faction terrorism in the 1970s Federal Republic of Germany. The main character, Katharina Blum, is an innocent housekeeper whose life is ruined by an invasive tabloid reporter and a police investigation when the man with whom she has just fallen in love turns out to be wanted by the police because of a bank robbery. تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست
تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و دوم ماه آگوست سال 1985 میلادیادبیات آلمانی - آبروی از دست رفته کاترینا بلوم - هاینریش بل، ترجمه: حسن نقره چی، نشر: نیلوفرترجمه دیگری نیز از شریف لنکرانی، چاپ اول 1357، چاپ دوم بهمن ماه 1363، از: انتشارات خوارزمیشیوه نگارش رئالیستی «هاینریش بل» و درونمایه ی انسانی آثارش، ایشان را پیشگام ادبیات رئالیستی آلمان کرد.
رمان «آبروی از دست رفته کاترینا بلوم» در حقیقت دنباله ی رمان «سیمای زنی در میان جمع» ایشانست که جایزه نوبل را نیز نصیب نویسنده کرده است.
Dietro di lei, l’immancabile Mario Adorf.Appare evidente che L’onore perduto di Katharina Blum (dal quale fu tratto un film non all’altezza del romanzo, con la regia firmata a quattro mani da Volker Schlöndorff e Margarethe von Trotta) è ispirato da questi fatti, è la risposta in letteratura di Böll alla stampa di destra (il quotidiano Bild Zeitung del gruppo Springer).
E’ un gesto clamoroso, che certo non la farà entrare nella storia, ma, ahilei, nella cronaca per pochi brutti giorni, doppiamente vittima.Il titolo originale è “L’onore perduto di Katharina Blum", in Italia il film uscì come “Il caso Katharina Blum”: evidentemente l’onore perduto fu considerato un deterrente per gli spettatori.Lui voleva fare bum-bum, no?, e io ho fatto bum-bum.Quando lo Stato fa sul serio.
Flanagan wrote a competent thriller, but Böll uses the reports of the state prosecution, the police and Katharina's defence lawyers to create a dry, meticulous, straight narrative of the events of four days.
But despite this sober intent, there are many ironic little asides, comments both on this undertaking of transcribing events into printed words, which is what is actually being exposed as fraudulant and highly questionable when undertaken by the print media, and on the events and people involved themselves.
The person who seems to be destroyed by events is the lawyer who was Katharina's employer and who also undertook her defence.
شاهكار تنها كلمه ايست كه در وصف اين كتاب ميتوانم به كار ببرم.ابروي از دست رفته ي كاترينا بلوم بي نظي
_The Lost honor of Katharina Blum_The lost honor of Katharina Blum is a great book.
Heinrich Böll did something absolutely brilliant with it.
He was absolutely brilliant with his sarcasm and his bravery and he was in full control of this from beggining to end.
He gave me this feeling, that he knew what he was doing, he knew what he wanted to state with his book and he executed it perfectly.
The writing was amazing, truly raw and honest and ocassionally funny but still discreet and elegant.
باید خودشان را جای ما بگذارند تا مجسم کنند که چه حالی به ما دست میدهد، هنگامی که توی دهان پرشان و یا بهتر بگویم پوزه ی پرشان باز هم غذا میچپانند، همه هم بدون استثنا ابتدا به ظرف خاویار یورش میبرند. مردان و زنان میلیونری هم هستند که سیگار و کبریت و بیسکویت توی کیفشان پنهان میکنند. اگر امکانش بود پاکت پلاستیکی با خودشان میآوردند و باقیماندهی غذاها و قهوه و شیرینی را با خوشان میبردند. پول همهی اینها را باید زحمتکشان که مالیات از حقوقشان کم میشود بپردازند.از متن کتاب
باید خودشان را جای ما بگذارند تا مجسم کنند که چه حالی به ما دست می‌دهد، هنگامی که توی دهان پرشان و یا بهتر بگویم پوزه ی پرشان باز هم غذا می‌چپانند، همه هم بدون استثنا ابتدا به ظرف خاویار یورش می‌برند. مردان و زنان میلیونری هم هستند که سیگار و کبریت و بیسکویت توی کیفشان پنهان می‌کنند. اگر امکانش بود پاکت پلاستیکی با خودشان می‌آوردند و باقیمانده‌ی غذاها و قهوه و شیرینی را با خوشان می‌بردند. پول همه‌ی این‌ها را باید زحمتکشان که مالیات از حقوقشان کم می‌شود بپردازند.از متن کتاب
The day I write this review, coincides with two events: Five years ago, on 3/3/2009 the Historical Archive of the City of Cologne collapsed, two people died and many historical treasures kept in the building are believed to be destroyed forever: Today is also Rosenmontag, the highlight of the German carnival season and Cologne being one of the carnival hot spots in Germany:So, why am I telling you this?First of all, Heinrich Böll was born in Cologne and lived there or nearby his whole life. Afte
The day I write this review, coincides with two events: Five years ago, on 3/3/2009 the Historical Archive of the City of Cologne collapsed, two people died and many historical treasures kept in the building are believed to be destroyed forever:
But the story of the book takes place in a few days just before Rosenmontag.
You bet, but in the years that started in 1968 with the APO (extra-parliamentary opposition) and culminated in the so called German Autumn in 1977, the nerves (on both sides) were pretty raw.So, I guess, this is a rather political book.
People actually believed it contains calls for violence.
The voice of this novel was something new to me: it is written in the form of a report, apparently reserved and unbiased, which presents the slow but effective process of Katharina Blum's public humiliation by police and press.It all begins with a murder (I'm not sure this may be considered a spoiler, because it comes in the first pages of the novel):  On Sunday evening at almost the same hour (to be precise, at about 7:04 P.M.) she rings the front door bell at the home of Walter Moeding, Crime
The voice of this novel was something new to me: it is written in the form of a report, apparently reserved and unbiased, which presents the slow but effective process of Katharina Blum's public humiliation by police and press.It all begins with a murder (I'm not sure this may be considered a spoiler, because it comes in the first pages of the novel): 
The press makes everything appear in a different light, distorts the statements and facts, issues far-fetched suppositions, with no concern for the individual whose life they are destroying.
It's 1974 and pretty hardworking German Katharina Blum is caught like a rabbit in the headlights when accused of helping wanted criminal Ludwig Gotten evade police capture from a building already under surveillance by law enforcement.
Using a step by step police interrogation style that both works but also creates a problem as it's not always easy to follow the timelines presented to the reader.
Winner of the Nobel Prize in 1972, what Böll has done well here also is creating a paranoid and edgy Germany at a time of political unrest and terrorism that takes any investigation as a wider spectrum of trouble.
I am extremely impressed.This tells the story of a 22-y/o household help and a divorcee, Katharina Blum who at the start of the 4-day Carnival asks her employer for a leave.
The writing is plain but Boll knows how to make the story suspenseful thereby making his readers continuously leafing through the pages.
Rather, he presents the facts and let his readers seek for the solution.The narration is also first person plural (similar to Jeffrey Eugenides' The Virgin Suicides making the readers fell the sad situation that Katharina Blum is experiencing.
Making the readers feel like reading just newspaper events that happen on our daily lives.
Ο τίτλος δεν είναι καθόλου τυχαίος. Πώς γεννιέται η βία; Το πού μπορεί να οδηγήσει ακούγεται λίγο οξύμωρο (η βία άλλωστε προκαλεί βία) αλλά ο Böll εισχωρεί λίγο βαθύτερα για να καυτηριάσει την ασυδοσία του τύπου. Με μια γραφή δημοσιογραφική (του ΒΒC όχι της Bild - την οποία δεν κατονομάζει, βέβαια, αλλά περιγράφει με τέτοια ακρίβεια που είναι σαν να το κάνει), αποστειρωμένη και εντελώς απαλλαγμένη από συναισθηματισμούς, καταφέρνει να προβληματίσει όχι, όμως, και να συγκινήσει. Φαντάζομαι αυτό έγινε ηθελημένα και με μεγάλη συνέπεια ως προς το περιεχόμενο του βιβλίου που σκοπό έχει να καταγγείλει την παραπληροφόρηση.
اگر آنچه نگاشته شده با شیوه ی عمل روزنامه نگاران بیلد شباهت دارد، عمدی و یا اتفاقی نیست، بلکه اجتناب ناپذیر است"رمان "آبروی از دست رفته کاترینا بلوم" (با نام فرعی "خشونت چگونه شکل می گیرد و به کجا می انجامد") با جمله ی بالا شروع می شود.
کاترینا پس از بازجوئی های آزار دهنده به خانه می رود، اما فردا در عین ناباوری می بیند روزنامه پر فروش خبر دستگیری و بازجویی او را کار کرده است، اما بحران به همین جا ختم نمی شود و خبرنگار با رجوع به گدشته زندگی شخصی کاترینا و مصاحبه با نزدیکان او و با ترفند غیر اخلاقی بازی با کلمات، سوژه جنجالی و داغی را برای خوانندگان روزنامه فراهم می کند.
Irresponsible journalism turns a maid into a murderer. Shock! Horror! It would have been much better written by a 'source' from the National Enquirer. As it is Heinrich Boll is too dry and literary and all the shock and horror is sucked out of it leaving just a competently-written, slightly disturbing story.
La reputazione di una giovane donna viene infangata dagli articoli di un giornale scandalistico, più interessato alla tiratura che alla ricostruzione veritiera dei fatti; poco importa, ai fini delle questioni sollevate dall’autore, se Katharina Blum sia effettivamente colpevole del crimine di cui è accusata: è possibile alterare i fatti in nome della libertà di stampa?
L’onore perduto di Katharina Blum è stato pubblicato nel 1974 ma le questioni che esso solleva sono molto attuali perché gli effetti della manipolazione delle informazioni e la scarsa attenzione riservata all’affidabilità delle fonti si ritrovano quotidianamente nella maggioranza delle notizie postate sui social.
گرچه همونطور که پیشتر هم گفته بودم، از نثر نویسندههایی که خودشون رو جای خواننده میذارن و ثانیه به ثانیهی داستان رو از ابعاد و نظرگاههای مختلف تحلیل میکنند خوشم نمییاد، اما کتاب «آبروی از دست رفتهی کاترینا بلوم» با وجود سبک مشابه، همچین حسی رو بهم نداد. یعنی بهواقع انقدر در کنه داستان فرو رفته بودم که فرصت فکر کردن به این مسائل رو نداشتم. هنوز که هنوزه تحت تاثیر ماجرای کتاب، عصبانی ام و اگه اغراق نباشه به اندازهی خود کاترینا مشتاق انتقام! البته گمونم شبیه همچین حسی به همهی کسانی که در فضایی مثل آ
گرچه همون‌طور که پیش‌تر هم گفته بودم، از نثر نویسنده‌هایی که خودشون رو جای خواننده می‌ذارن و ثانیه به ثانیه‌ی داستان رو از ابعاد و نظر‌گاه‌های مختلف تحلیل می‌کنند خوشم نمی‌یاد، اما کتاب «آبروی از دست رفته‌ی کاترینا بلوم» با وجود سبک مشابه، همچین حسی رو بهم نداد.
یعنی به‌واقع انقدر در کنه داستان فرو رفته بودم که فرصت فکر کردن به این مسائل رو نداشتم.
هنوز که هنوزه تحت تاثیر ماجرای کتاب، عصبانی ام و اگه اغراق نباشه به اندازه‌ی خود کاترینا مشتاق انتقام!
Looking for an escape from these press-matters, she thrusted herself into the limelight that sensationalised her, to bring it to a closure.In an unbiased tone all the events are reported with utmost clarity, avoiding any sort of judgement but not leaving any essential questions, and the evil insinuations from NEWS are exorcised by the reliable facts.
But, little do we can do anything about her wretched fate.This is that first book I read of Heinrich Böll.
There is something strangely amusing about his stories which always keep me on the lookout for his books, rare as they are to be found from any sources I can avail.
تم تسمية الكاتب الألماني هاينريش بول : "ضمير الأمة الألمانية"، وذلك لأنه أراد التعبير عن العدمية الأخلاقية التي هبطت على موطنه ألمانيا من بعد الحرب العالمية الثانية، وهذا ما قاد كاتبنا لكتابة عدد من الروايات الناجحة شعبيا ونقديا والتي مهدت له الحصول على نوبل للآداب عام ١٩٧٢..في هذه الرواية ينجح هاينريش بول في التوفيق بين مدارس الكتابة الرمزية والتحليل النفسي والنثر السريع المقتصد..لنذهب معه في رحلة متوترة إلى قدس أقداس شعور شعب بكامله.. بالخوف من نفسه والخوف من ماضيه...
Αν το διαβάσεις, δε θα ξαναδιαβάσεις ποτέ εφημερίδα ή θα ξαναδείς ειδήσεις με τον ίδιο τρόπο.
Η παραπληροφόρηση του Τύπου και πως οδηγεί στη βία. Ευχάριστο βιβλίο που διαβάζετε απνευστί.
With NCIS, what's clearly problematic is my emotional response as the team members routinely violate the privacy of each and every suspect the trail throws up.
Each of us has some aspect of our lives, past or present, in which we are essentially sleazebuckets.
When it was filmed, a few years later, I had a summer job in Berlin, and I remember that there was much renewed public debate about the issues raised.
در کشور ما که آزادی مطبوعات حداقل ممکنه و یکی از آرمان هامون همین بهتر شدن وضع مطبوعاته کم تر پیش میاد که کسی دیدی شبیه به دید نویسنده نسبت به آزادی بی قید و شرط فعالیت مطبوعات داشته باشه.واقعا این همه مطبوعات عمیق میتونن زندگی انسان ها رو ،دیدشون و جایگاه اجتماعیشون رو تغییر بدن.مراقب قضاوت هامون بعد از خوندن خبرها باشیم.
At the outset, the epigraph for the novel turns the usual disclaimer about people, places, and things into an attack on Bild-Zeitung, a politically conservative German tabloid: “The characters and action in this story are purely fictitious.
Should the description of certain journalistic practices result in a resemblance to the practices of the Bild-Zeitung, such resemblance is neither intentional nor fortuitous, but unavoidable.”On the one hand the novel is a serious and powerful indictment of the law and the press and the impact of hypocrisy and manipulation in high society.
دو تا مشكل باهاش داشتم! با اينكه كتاب كوتاهيه خيلى شخصيت داره و اسما شبيه هم كه باعث گيج شدن خواننده ميشه! و دوم كه از نيمه ى كتاي كامل ميشه حدث زد داستان چيه براى من كه اينجورى بود! خيلى از كتابا با دونستن موضوعش حتى جذابيت داره ولى اين نداشت! با اينكه اولين كاريه كه از بُل ميخونم و هنوز عقايد يك دلقك و سيماى زنى در ميان جمع رو نخوندم برام كاملن كتاب معمولى اى بود
محتواى كتاب انقدر خوب بود كه ترجمه ى بد هم نتونسته بود اون رو تحت الشعاع قرار بده.
اعتراف ميكنم كه تحت تأثير تمام تعريفهايى كه از كتاب شنيدم هميشه فكر ميكردم بايد بعد از خوندن اون رو كتاب عالى اى بدونم.
در مورد ترجمه بايد بگم من دقيقاً نميدونم بد بوده يا نه، چون ممكنه خود كتاب به علت دليلى كه گفتم خيلى روان خوان نوشته نشده باشه.
اما به هر حال فكر ميكنم بهتر هم ميشد ترجمه بشه.خوندن اين كتاب يك طور ياداورى داره، كه حواسمون به دامهايى كه هر لحظه ممكنه توش سقوط كنيم باشه.
Told in the form of an unofficial report, this intelligent and pacy story from the 1970s tackles issues of press freedom, responsibility and police tactics.It's based on a real incident in the author's own life, when he was publicly accused of being a terrorist sympathiser and hounded by the German press.
The subtitle of the book is "how violence develops and where it can lead."Recorded on location in Berlin, The Lost Honour of Katharina Blum also features a soundtrack of 1970s Krautrock from bands such as Can, Neu, La Dusseldorf and Ash Ra Tempel.
در اثر حادثه ای ساده پای او به اداره پلیس باز می شود و روزنامه های زرد زندگی او را به نابودی می کشانندموضوع داستان در مورد اثار مخرب روزنامه نگاران بی تعهد و ترور شخصیتی افراد در مطبوعات است .
موضوع جالبی بود کتاب هم مثل همه اثار بول عزیز فوق العاده بود .
به نظرم موضوع جالب و جدیدی بود و خیلی خوب نشون داده بود که مثلا چه جمله ای با چه تغییر کوچکی تونسته یک زندگی و یک احساس را نابود کنه .
قشنگ بود فقط سبک نوشتموضوع جالب اینه که بول اول کتاب نوشته :" اشخاص و موضوع این داستان ساختگی است .
Of course Heinrich Böll wrote The Lost Honor of Katharina Blum in 1974, right as the ramifications of a media-saturated society were becoming apparent-- the great one-two-three of movies about mediated society, Network, Being There, and Videodrome would follow shortly thereafter. In fact, this really is a cinematic sort of novel about how media circuses form and eventually destroy people. Watch as Katharina Blum is slowly Lindsay Lohan'd into violence and insanity, and bitterly laugh along. Also, this was way the hell better than the other Böll I'd read, Billiards at Half-Past Nine, and I'm looking forward to reading more.
