https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/74996.Five_Go_Off_in_a_Caravan
The Famous Five go on a caravan holiday, which ends up in another adventure for the intrepid gang when they meet a travelling circus, where some of the circus folk have more sinister plans than just clowning around.
After a few days they leave for Merran Lake where they befriend Nobby, a boy who works for a circus.
This time, although Timmy dodges the bullet, Nobby's dog, Barker, does not!Rather than just wait a short while or opting for any one of a dozen good alternatives the circus men come and enter the cave with Julian in earshot to hear their wicked plans.There follows the usual to and fro, getting trapped, escaping, and ultimately bringing the bad types into the clutches of the police.
Timmy holds off angry men, and Pongo the Chimp, who understands directions almost as complex as those that the dog does, also plays his part.A fairly average entry in the series.
Or more correctly: Five Go Off in Mobile Larders.
After deciding against a walking holiday (fitting several tons worth of ginger beer and a small mountain of lovely vittles into their pack might be a bit tricky) and having failed to hire a fleet of Ocado vans the children head off.
Loved this one as a child.
I immediately drew up plans to go on a similar Mobile Larder expedition with a select group of my school chums.
Our destination: Loch Ness.
In between copious and frequent scoffing we'd discover Nessie and become world famous monster hunters.
Another exciting entry into the Famous Five series... This one has a gentle start (especially compared to the beginning of book four) but the action really ramps up once you get past the halfway mark.Timmy the dog has become my favourite character. In this book, he always seems to be one restraining hand away from a berserker rage!This one will be especially harrowing for anyone who has a phobia of clowns... You have been warned!Buddy read with Sunshine Seaspray
The Five are allowed to go off by themselves in a caravan because 'Timmy is there' and 'Daddy has to go away for a while'.
In Blyton-land, no one ever took care of their children.
Obviously not!
Why would they do such a thing?
The Five come across a circus and decide to camp next to them.
Before they know it, they are embroiled in a crazy adventure with stolen goods, a gang of thieves, clowns, a circus boy, and a chimpanzee.
I think my favourite char of the Five is Dick.
Despite his name, he is no dick.
It's totally fine for 8 - 12 year olds to go on road trips with no supervision2.
Make friends with strangers, it'll probably be super fun and totally fine.
There will always be a convenient unpolluted, crystal clear and delicious stream to drink from and wash your clothes in.4.
Don't worry about feeding yourself, just get Anne to cook everything.
Oh, and she'll wash up and clean all your clothes too.5.
If Anne isn't about, find a farmer's wife to feed you.
Vigilante justice is the best possible choice every time.Also, as with all Enid Blyton books, if you read this novel prepare yourself for intense, unexplained bouts of ginger beer cravings.
... reading with my almost 10 year old daughter...I've read all these books way back when I was a child and I've read them numerous times. I thought it was time to show them to her.She loved this one and was a bit terrified. Lol, it was so cute.
Kinder, Kinder, man merkt, dass dies nicht das erste Buch war. Warum haben die echt bei den Hörspielen so mit den Titeln herumjongliert? Ebenfalls ist mir in meiner Kindheit auch nie aufgefallen, wie oft Dick und die anderen “Kinder, Kinder” sagen. :) Ein spannender und kurzweiliger Fall der FF, welcher nicht beschönigt, wie die Gesellschaft zu Zirkusjungen sein können. [01.08.2018]
While deciding what books I should read for this challenge, I quickly decided on a trip down memory lane, reading what was my favourite childhood mystery series (and my favourite childhood author) - Five Go Off in a Caravan.The Famous Five (Julian, Dick, Anne, George and faithful Timmy) are on yet another summer holiday (They're always having holidays).
While the book doesn't go into any details, there is some class differences (which can be seen by how uncomfortable Noddy was with them.
But I think for those like me (going back down memory lane), I read it more for the characters and the ideal-England (sunny, friendly, etc) than for the plot.
Another well plotted adventure story for the Five. Still quite a disturbing level of accepted violence which doesn't sit well with modern readers.
I'm reading through this kid's series which I never read as a kid. A good yarn but kinda perfunctory- the first in the series was better. Most surprising thing in this one- the kind of freedom these kids had to do their own thing without parental supervision- not something that would happen today!
Standard Famous Five fare with some surly circus folk and a cache of stolen goods.
I loved these books when I was a child. My children and grandchildren also loved them.Stories that never grow old. Recommended.
One of my favourite Famous Five tales - the awesome improbabilities of it all. Loved it as a kid, still love it.
In this novel the four children Julian, Dick, Georgina( often called George) and Anne along with their dog Timmy set off towards a hill, in two caravans.
So they set off in caravans towards the same hills and reached there in four days.
In the end, the children finds out their secret and they have to pay for it.They discover an underground hole in the hill where all kinds of valuable goods , which the two of them stole, were stored.
When the men came back to take their stolen goods, Pongo attacked them, and during the fight Dick slipped out and informed the police.
Heyecanın, dostluğun, özgür ruhun olduğu harika bir seri daha. Biz çok sevdik.
I love this book I wish I was one of them, they pack such yummy food that makes me want to all of it.
Fun story 😁 I liked Pongo and his protectiveness of Ned, and how children just don't hesitate to make friends without looking at backgrounds.
I really like this book
I was probably reading these around the age of 9 by myself at the the recommendation of my Grandmother who had also read them as a child and it's just mad to think about a Grandmother recommending a book with burglars, shooting and arson to a 9 year old now in this generation!
Having said all that it was a fun read and there's no denying that the Famous 5 still hold a certain charm for a child that isn't too sensitive and likes an old fashioned adventure story.
If you think they need to be 'corrected' then maybe don't read them!
Kid fiction is fun to read.
This was the first one I read from this series.ReviewThe plotThe plot is always that the five of the characters get into some trouble while seeking adventure.
They solve mysteries, save others from trouble, eat a lot of delicious food.
And HP has a great world built inside the books.
The charactersI like how the characters are built.
George: A slightly arrogant, but likable daughter, raised more like a son.
Anne: Geroge's cousin.
Almost opposite of George, behaves most sensibly.
Julian & Dick: Anne's brothers.
Timmy: George's dog.
VerdictFor kids, must read.
"A caravan holiday for the Famous Five is bound to be an adventure!
And when they stumble across a circus troupe, the gang are thrilled.
But some of the circus people have more sinister plans than just clowning around..."I absolutely adored Famous Five as a child.
I trawled through secondhand stores and slowly acquired all of them.
For some reason in my childhood, there were lots of British books and comics widely available and back then they were sold for the mighty sum of 10 cents.
Seems funny now when some of the secondhand shops charge $7-10 per book!
One thing I can't get my head around how can you eat Bread-Butter-Boiled Egg together! You could have just fried the egg and make an Egg Sandwich! Anyway about the story not that great but pretty good for children I guess. Would have given it 3 star 15 years ago, that's why rated it 3 star now.
One of my favourite Famous Five books, I loved this as a kid and loved the reread as an adult. All the magic elements of a Famous Five story....secret tunnels....villians.....Timmy.....poisoned meat.....treasure.....spiffingly good food and ginger beer, I loved it all!
This book is easy to read, for the children who read small books, I recommend this book and the collection.Shanou
I love this series. Dick very smart in the last moment.
The Five camp near to the circus and soon find that some of the people including Tiger Dan, Nobby's uncle, are less than happy with their presence.**Spoilers ahead: I remembered this as one my favorite Famous Five, and it still is.
As much as I enjoy other books in the series with a more oppressive atmosphere (basically all the previous ones except the first), this is the kind of Famous Five story I remember most fondly: it has that sense of freedom and joy that permeates all the pre-adventure part.
There was a dish of salt for everyone to dip their eggs into.‘I don’t know why, but the meals we have on picnics always taste so much nicer than the ones we have indoors,’ said George.” “A clown needn't be the same out of the ring as he has to be when he's in it.
While the exact origin of the phrase is unknown, it is often traced back to the Cornish beam engines of the Newcomen era in the 18th century.

Kubayangin memang asyik banget pergi berkelana tanpa orang tua. Berkemah dengan orang tua saja menyenangkan. Apalagi bebas bersama saudara-saudara sepantar saja. Tapi kalau bagiku, berkemah dekat-dekat dengan kelompok sirkus itu kurang menyenangkan. Ide berkelana menggunakan karavan lalu menginap di tempat-tempat yang indah lebih cocok jika tujuannya untuk mendapatkan ketenangan, menikmati pemandangan yang indah dan damai di sepanjang perjalanan. Persis seperti Anne, rasanya malas berurusan dengan kejahatan lagi hehehe.
