https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8680.Fierce_Invalids_Home_from_Hot_Climates
Αυτοί οι δολιοφθορείς της εξτρεμιστικής έμπνευσης, που αποτελούν την αντανάκλαση του θεμελιώδους νόμου του σύμπαντος και επιταχύνουν την πραγματικότητα -την οποία παραδέχονται μόνο ως εικονική- είναι το ουρλιαχτό που προέρχεται απο μια παραδοχή:Οι αγριεμένοι ανάπηροι που επιστρέφουν απο καυτά κλίματα αγαπιούνται παράφορα απο τις γυναίκες....(προσωπική άποψη).
Στο προκείμενο, ο Σουίτερς (ένας απο τους πιο χαρισματικούς και αξιολάτρευτους λογοτεχνικούς ήρωες) πράκτορας της CIA,είναι έτοιμος για μια αποστολή στη Νότιο Αμερική.
Απο εκεί και μετά αρχίζει η παράνοια της πραγματικότητας που δεν μπορούν να κατανοήσουν όσοι ζουν στο φυσικό κόσμο και διαθέτουν μόνο τη γήινη αντίληψη των πραγμάτων.
An exciting and provocative discourse on the nature of Duality, this book not only has a purpose behind every minute action therein, but disguises it in such a way that it goes unnoticed until a thorough debriefing is held between the kid in you (who likes Fierce Invalids for its comedic, world hopping spy thriller action with sexy ladies and awesome protagonists,) and the wannabe philosopher in you (who'll love it for its stylistic diction and damn near poetic prose, its dense symbolism, and its staggering humanistic study of dualism.)I can't begin to do this book justice in this discription.
Some people love this shit and find it oh so witty and creative, but to me the perfect phrase to describe this book (and all Tom Robbins) is "verbal masturbation." If you value the simple beauty of good prose, you will feel dirty after ol Robbins spews gratuitous, barely cogent metaphors willy-nilly all over your literary face line after nauseating line. Robbins is clearly getting off on his own cleverness; it's just too bad he didn't stop to think about your needs.
Καλοκαίρι=παγωτά, μπάνια (όσα και αν είναι αυτά), συναυλίες, μπίρες (και κοκτέιλ όταν είμαστε λαρτζ) και Robbins. Και ΚΑΥΣΩΝΑΣ .Συστατικά του βιβλίου: σάτιρα,ερωτισμός,ευαισθησία, ώρες-ώρες κυνισμός, μια ζούγκλα, ένας παπαγάλος, μια γιαγιά εξπέρ στους υπολογιστές και ο Switters, ένας απ' τους πιο ενδιαφέροντες χαρακτήρες του Robbins. Και αναφορά στον Tenessee Williams.Άνθρωποι όλου του κόθμου,χαλαρώθτε.
Also, the form of Switters' speeches echoes the author's style of wording and imagery.
Languages, accents, and even speech impediments seem to be elevated to the highest objects of aesthetic appreciation in Robbins novels.
An employee at an independent bookstore (Liftbridge books, Brockport NY, highly recommended) that Robbins is one of a few specific authors who they regularly argue over putting in "fiction" or "literature," and his work does have the same guilty-pleasure value of trashy novels, and always seems to end happily.
Everytime I don't know what to buy people for Christmas or their birthday, I just get them a copy of this book. I give them two months and then ask what they thought of it. If they say they loved it, we continue to be friends. If they didn't like it, I challenge them to a gladiator-style death match. As you could surmise by the fact that I'm writing this right now, I've never lost a death match. That's how much I love this book.
Εν αρχής ο Σουιτερς είναι ο πιο αγαπημένος μου φανταστικός ήρωας.
Η γνωριμία μου μαζί του συντέλεσε στην αναδιαμόρφωση της κοσμοθεωρίας μου και της οπτικής που αντιμετωπίζω τη ζωή.Τι να ναι αυτό λοιπόν, που θα μπορούσε να ανάγει μια γνώση σε απαγορευμένη?Και πόσο μακριά διατίθεται κάποιος να φτάσει για να απαντήθει αυτό ερώτημα?Είναι η ζωή ένα σύνολο φυσικών φαινομένων και συμπτώσεων?
Ή έστω, η ψευδαίσθηση τους?Είναι η ηθική άπλα θέμα του εκάστοτε πολιτισμικού περιβάλλοντος?Φωτισμένος είναι ο άνθρωπος, με διευρυμένη την συνείδηση και την Χρυσή Τομή του Χιούμορ?ΑΘΡΩΠΟΙ ΟΛΟΥ ΤΟΥ ΚΟΘΜΟΥ...ΧΑΛΑΡΩΘΤΕ ΕΠΙΤΕΛΟΥΘ!!!!!
What to call my favorite scene... let's call it: in the bathroom on hands and knees eating salad. Probably the funniest laugh-out-loud scene I have ever read.
i've well acquainted with the pantheon of tom robbins (except for wild ducks flying backward- saving that for a rainy day), but i have to count myself among the many who consider this a favorite of the bunch. well written, fast, and full of shamanic/monastic greatness. i would even say a tour de force if that wasn't the shittiest, most hackneyed phrase in book reviewdom.
Likely my favorite book of all time. Former CIA agent Switters treks through the Amazon searching for shaman named "The End of Time/ Today IS Tomorrow," accompanied only by his parrot who lives by the motto "Peeple of zee wurl, relax!" I spit every time I hear the name "John Foster Dulles." Ingenious.
Top 5.Switters is my hero. An absurd and rollicking good time. If you enjoy philosophy, drugs, booze, sex and laughing...you should be into this.
The zany, picaresque story follows a character named Switters, a CIA agent who lusts after stepsister and spends time with his grand dame grandma, a lady known as Maestra.
The framework provides an excuse for Switters to deal with a bunch of kooky characters (like his CIA buddy Bobby, a macho Texas good ol' boy, and Domino, the abbess of the convent), and for him to get trashed and throw around zingers and cockeyed comments.
It is all in good fun, but Robbins can surprise by throwing in the occasional serious observation or thoughtful aside, such as critical comments on consumer culture.
CIA operatives from Switters's own point of view come in two flavors, cowboys and angels.
The plot is merely a pretext for Switters's pontifications on subjects ranging from sex to philosophy to politics to popular culture.
It has flux”“Americans are generous and funny, the ones I have met,” Toufic lamented, “but I am compelled to oppose them.”“It's only natural,” said Switters, “American foreign policy invites opposition.
It invites terrorism.”Switters said, “Terrorism is the only imaginable logical response to America's foreign policy, just as street crime is the only imaginable logical response to American's drug policy.”Whatever one thinks of that, one has to admire the courage of Switters's smoke-fueled convictions.
Sometimes you find a book at the wrong time in your life, and you think how much you would have liked it if you had read it 10 years ago.
He told me something along the lines of "you're sex positive, so you would enjoy this sexy romp of a book." I don't remember exactly how he described it, but something like that.
I probably would have like it back then as an eighteen year old, because it is raunchy and seemingly philosophical.
I kept thinking, "Um, is that it?
Hearing that, his elderly computer-hacking grandmother in Seattle asks, or rather orders, him to take her aged pet parrot back to the Peruvian jungle so that it could spend its dotage with fellow parrots rather than in a cage.
Switters meets a shaman in the jungle.
This fellow meets Switters and takes an interest in the parrot's unusually shaped cage.
After the meeting, Switters becomes confined to a wheelchair unwilling to let his feet make even the slightest contact with the earth.
Confined to his wheelchair, Switters lands up in the Syrian desert, where he is sheltered by an unusual order of nuns.
Fierce Invalids Home from Hot ClimatesCurrent mood: disappointed"Could you pull off there?
" she immediately asked, pointing ...
to a gas station.
"I really have to use the bathroom.""Say toilet, would you darling.
Intelligent speech is under pressure in our fair land and needs all the support it can get."above is my favorite part of this book, which i would NOT recommend to others.
but, i did want to see the book through, since i had given it a good 3 weeks of my life.
i did NOT put this book down feeling satisified!
Αυτό το βιβλίο με έκανε να γελάσω. Το γέλιο είναι καλό, οπότε μου άρεσε. Πολλές λεπτομέρειες που μου έφεραν νύστα σε κάτι φάσεις σουπερ ντάγκλας. Δεν αποκλείεται και το βιβλίο να έχει γραφτεί σε ανάλογες φάσεις (ψυχεδελικές).Ο Switters είναι ο καλύτερος αγριεμένος ανάπηρος από καυτά κλίματα που γνώρισα ποτέ και αυτό γιατί είναι αυθεντικός. Μη διαβάζετε άλλα βιβλία με δράμα και θλίψη και όλα τα κακά του κόσμου. Διαβάστε αυτό.
4.5 STARS
I was told to read this book by a friend who is absolutely nuts over this author.
Tom Robbins is obviously a very smart man and has extremely creative stories.
Tom Robbins tends to ramble for pages upon pages within this book which is like trying to concentrate on listening to someone talking to you on acid.
I've read a few of his other novels so i could fairly judge his books in my own opinion,but I found it all the same.
Like I said before, he is smart, witty and extremely creative, but its not enough to make me want to ever read a book this long of his again.
This was the only book I had to hand to read while I sat by my father's bedside for a few days this year.
It was ghastly.I found this book disturbing and boring.
The book wafted around like a drunken wasp.
Annoying, going nowhere and ultimately you just want to slap it down.It took me ages to read - mainly because once I put it down I couldn't really be bothered to pick it up again - I really didn't care what happened to "Switters".
Actually even his name annoyed me.
It was just annoying and I wasted time in my life reading it.
Za príbeh dávam tri mdlé hviezdy ale s dodatkom že Robbinsove metafory majú v sebe viac života ako väčšina mojich kolegov.
Fiercely Funny and ProfoundIn Fierce Invalids Home From Hot Climates, Tom Robbins once again expounds on the meaning of life, death, religion, politics, and humanity, but this time he also goes on about sub-atomic particles, pyramids, Matisse, the CIA, John Foster Dulles, the Amazon, Syria, Sacramento, Seattle’s Pike Place Market, Finnegan’s Wake, Broadway Show Tunes, parrots, anacondas, the relative value of wheelchairs and stilts, sexual experiences perverse or otherwise, the humanizing power of a good sense of humor, and...
The next morning, for whatever reason, Fannie leaves the convent and heads out to tell selected authorities about the existence of the prophecy document, which the church believes it has destroyed.
I'll start off by saying that I think I would have enjoyed this book more if I had read it a couple of years later.
And kind of in a good way.
Although I must say that it sort of felt like Robbins was trying to flaunt his brilliance and kind of was just writing in a purposefully clever and confusing way, and as if he were saying "yeah, you know I'm smarter than you and you know that I'm awesome." Underneath it all, he poses some of life's big questions.
Dep seems the kind of fella that's off the deep end in taste so I thought I would read it and see why he liked it so much.It is kind if hard to appreciate a protagonist who is a pedophile and who engages in anal sex with a nun.
insight as to Dep's relationship with Roman Polanski!Robbins uses wonderful flowery, flowing language, however he bleeds this over into his characters speech.
Perhaps Robbins should leave the spy telling to the author that does it best, John Le Carre.Dont get me wrong I loved the language and I have no scruples about reading about pedophilia and anal intercourse with a nun, I just don't want my hero, flawed as he maybe, the have these faults.


I always knew that men loved to hear themselves speak. That they believe themselves to be the final word on all things.Switters is pompous, lustful, erratic and highly intelligent. This novel takes all kinds of jumps and twist all the while you get caught up in the insane yet coherent ramblings of a man. Conspiracy, humor, sex and religion. Tom Robbins has issues....good thing he wrote them down. This book is entertainment.
Tipik bir Tom Robbins kitabıydı.
Romandaki ana karakter Switters'ın ruhu bir çok eleştirmene göre Tom Robbins'in ta kendisi.
Aslında kitap zeki ve eğlenceli espiri kıvrımlarıyla dolu.
Siyasi bir görüşün kisvesi altında değil, sadece dış gözlemci olarak Türk-Kürt sorununa iki cümleyle ancak bu kadar özetlenebilirdi.Aslında ironilere yedirilmiş fikir güzel ama kurgu olarak çetrefilli ve espiri zehirlenmesiyle çok doluydu.
Tom Robbins'e sevgim 10-15 sene önce daha çokmuş, onu fark ettim.
Robbins'e olduğu kadar, break dansına da eski ilgim eser miktarda.
Benim için iyi bir kitap okuma yolculuğu olmadı, kötü yolculuk da olmadı.
My impression during this phase was that the author was writing exploratorily, getting good-writing writer's block, tenuously connecting the disjointed leads of the narrative; and looking back at his work to try to make it more natural and comprehensible, and completely failing to do so.
I did not like the viscous flow of adjectives Robbins used in the opening scene (it was, I grudgingly admit, too damn vivid).Most things did not faze me.
Since the story is Switters' experience, it might be completely unreliable.
Life is an unreliable narrative, which is why I like this book.I found myself at times not-exceedingly-infrequently reading non-linearly over the span of 5-10 pages, because I can't stand suspense.
Tajný agent CIA na chůdách i invalidním vozíku, jeptišky, Sýrie a můj oblíbený Deir Ez Zor, tajemství zjevení Panny Marie, dost hustá sranda... prostě Tom Robbins jak má být.Nějaké ponaučení? Úspěch civilizace pramení z dobrého soužití s přírodou (výsada indiánů) a smíchu (výsada bělochů).
