https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/833549.Frog_and_Toad_All_Year
I honestly love Frog and Toad.
They’ve been hilarious in previous installments, but reading Frog and Toad All Year really cemented the amphibious duo in my mind as favorite characters.
Take for example, this quip from Toad after Frog takes him out for a series of mishaps during the first snow of winter."Winter may be beautiful, but bed is much better." [pg.
17]To which I raise a hearty AMEN.The chapter in which Toad fetches ice creams for he and Frog is priceless (and seems exactly like something I might do).Conclusion.
The entire Frog and Toad series is gold.
I once saw amusing illustrations from this book, thinking that they were from the original edition of Wind in the Willows.
Somehow, I had missed them when I was growing up.This little book is so charming.
This is a series of short stories about the friendship of a pessimistic, anxious Toad and an optimistic, encouraging Frog.
Though Toad is quite depressive at times, he still cares deeply for his best friend, and goes to great lengths to keep Frog safe and brighten his day.
I couldn't help but think Toad was a little too relatable at times.
Going to go see the play, so thought we should pregame since Trent didn’t know who Frog or Toad were. Now he’s a fan!
میخوام از شدت بامزگی و قشنگی و دوست داشتنی بودنش بمیرم :((
می‌خوام از شدت بامزگی و قشنگی و دوست داشتنی بودنش بمیرم :((
This third of four Frog and Toad from Arnold Lobel provides five short stories describing the adventures of two friends throughout the seasons of the year.
Lobel’s beautiful and soothingly colored drawings bring to life not only the funny adventures, but the disparate personalities of Frog and Toad.
This was a great favorite of mine as a child, and one that my own children now enjoy just as much.
It’s a perfect way to show children the difference between optimism and pessimism, as well as portraying the joys and benefits of friendship.
5* art5* storiesThis is a bit of nostalgia. I've loved these two since I was a kid. The kind of book I've just been waiting to read to Squirt. There's an understated humour in these stories that really makes him laugh. Best of all is the exploration of friendship. Squirt won't be doing half bad if he learns what a friend is from Frog and Toad.
This took way longer than expected as a 2 day kitchen renovation has turned into a week long half the house renovation. Good as always though!
This little book has a story about Frog and Toad for every season -- winter, spring, summer, fall, and a Christmas story.
I think this is the best collection in the Frog and Toad books.
Frog and Toad go sledding.
Frog tells Toad a story of waiting for Spring.
And the Christmas story is a bleak tale, typical of the final story in these Frog and Toad books.
Toad worries that Frog has been eaten and he'll never spend another Christmas with him again.
But Frog arrives safely, and they have a pleasant Christmas Eve in front of the fire.
We had a bound book collection of Frog and Toad but this was not part of that volume. It's been fun to read some "new" stories that are not in our well loved bound volume.Frog and Toad are just fun.While we are using Frog and Toad to help with our new reader in the house we have been reading our children Frog and Toad probably since they were two. Fun for any age.
I'd read the Frog and Toad books years ago and just loved them! Read this one to my niece today, and I'd forgotten what sweet stories they are! I loved the pictures and reading the simple words to her. These really are timeless stories, real treasures!
I am an ESL teacher for children and this is a great book for those who are learning to read English. The language is simple but entertaining. I use it in my classes with children ranging in age from 5 to 13 and it is well received, the students can practice reading a book but also build their confidence in their English proficiency which helps them progress more quickly.
من عاشق وزغ هستم!و عاشق دوستی شیرین این دو تا...
June 2017 - I think Ben gets Frog & Toad better each time we read one. I love the humor, and I had a sudden realization that my husband is a lot like Toad...Does that make me Frog?
I enjoyed this book because I like winter. I also enjoyed this book because I liked the part when Frog and Toad went down a hill on a sled.
Perfect book to read ALL YEAR
Both Frog and Toad wanted some ice cream, so Toad said he be right back and went off to get some ice cream.
You may want to wrap the bag in a dish towel so that your hands don’t get too cold.5.The ice cream mixture should start to harden when it is ready, so give it a squeeze every few minutes.6.Take the smaller bag out of the larger one.
If desired, add optional toppings, and eat the ice cream right out of the bag.Serves 1How does it work?Ice keeps things cold because it absorbs heat energy from its surroundings.
The melting ice absorbs heat from its surroundings, in this case, the ice cream mixture.
This book has five stories, starting and ending with Winter tales.As usual, Toad is a bit negative and nervous, while Frog is calm, positive and dedicated to being a very good friend to Toad.In "Down the Hill", Frog gets Toad to come outside and try sledding down a hill with him.
Frog gets bumped off the sled, and Toad still enjoys the adventure until he realizes he's alone.
He decides Winter is best spent inside.The next story is about a story told from Frog to Toad, one rainy day when they are wishing Spring was here.
Frog and Toad All Year (Frog and Toad #3) by Arnold Lobel is a classic beginning reader about two friends through the seasons: Frog who is optimistic and Toad who is pessimistic.
Down The Hill features a classic Toad panic attack.
The Corner is sweet.
Ice Cream is quite funny.
Christmas Eve is worried Toad at his best.
Themes include friendship and seasons.
The text is large font, the dialog is easy to read, and there's sufficient word repetition for beginning and transitional readers.
Lobel's illustration are perfect and expressive.
For ages 4-7, friend or seasons themes, and lovers of Lobel.
Frog and Toad are THE BEST. Frog and toad are best friends experiencing life in each other's company, and almost every one of these short stories contains warmth, hilarity, and communicates a positive lesson. Every Frog and Toad book is uber-entertaining and totally endearing, and I love the illustrative style. Honestly, it's difficult to believe that anyone has ever given a Frog and Toad book less than 5 stars.
This is the first Frog and Toad book that I've read. The storylines were okay, but it was Frog and Toad's friendship that hooked me to the book. I thought it was great how Frog and Toad did things for each other without asking for anything in return. A friendship like theirs is one that is rarely seen. How many of us would go to someone's house, rake their leaves, and never say a word to the other person about it? I know I wouldn't keep my mouth shut.
I liked when Toad thought Frog was lost in the hole and cold, wet, and hungry. I liked the Toad when he got ice cream all over him. I liked the story when he was a little guy and he found the end of the world where the sun was. I liked when the bird said to Toad, "You are all alone." Then he got mad.
My 6-year old read this to me. He giggled at how silly they are while he was reading. It can be hard to find an easy reader story that is also interesting, and this one fits the bill. We will be reading the other Frog and Toad books.
This is my kids' favorite book. All four of them gather around and ask me to read it, particularly the story about the melting chocolate ice cream. Frog and Toad are awesome!
Another great book. We love the Christmas story, where Toad's anxiety shows up yet again, and the super cute fall story.
A sweet interaction between two friends: one chipper, the other stodgy. An easy reader for beginners with simple story lines.
Read this with my two year old. He thought downhill was a hoot. I am really enjoying reading it to him. For stories with very simple language they catured sophisticated emotions. I loved them.
This was claimed in an old kid's diary as my favorite book, mentioned together with some other Frog and Toad books.
A heart warming easy read for all seasons.
Frog and Toad All YearBy Arnold LobelFrog and Toad All Year goes through the seasons, and tells a little short story about Frog and Toad.
The first short story begins with winter.
The second short story begins with spring.
In the end Frog and Toad went outside after the rain had stopped and the rain had brought spring.
In reality Frog was just late, because he had to finish wrapping Toads present.This books are great because it is not just one big story.
It is a book with a bunch of short stories.
This particular Frog and Toad book taught the seasons.
- The Corner: While stuck in the house on a rainy day Frog tells Toad a story from his childhood.
But the ice cream melts all over Toad and twigs and leaves get stuck on him.
- The Surprise: Frog and Toad sneak over to each others houses and rake the leaves outside the house to surprise their friend.
That night they both go to sleep happy thinking about how surprised the other one probably was to see the magically raked leaves.
- Christmas eve: Toad makes a Christmas dinner and he looks at his broken clock and thinks that Frog is late.
