https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/138798.Because_a_Little_Bug_Went_Ka_choo_
I love this little classic. I pulled this out at our family reunion and began to read it and soon all the kids had gathered around me to listen to the story and laugh at the pictures. It's a comedy of errors. I love the illustrations in beautiful color. I remember this from my childhood. You should give this little bug a chance for one sneeze and a whole lot can happen!
Dr Suess - Teaching children theoretical physics since ...15 November 2013 An alternate title for this book could quite well be 'Chaos Theory for Kids' or more aptly 'The Butterfly Effect for Kids'. This little book pretty much outlines the idea behind the Butterfly Effect: the theory that if a butterfly flaps its wings in China it causes a hurricane in Miami. Okay, this book is not that extreme, but because a little bug sneezed it created a chain of events which resulted in a boat sinking, a he
I wonder if fans of this book sit in their science classes and when the teacher asks then to explain the theory of cause and effect whether a cheeky kid will put his hand up and say 'is it because a little bug went ka-choo?'	The other thing that caught my attention was that I discovered that this book was written by Rosetta Stone.
I wonder if Rosetta Stone uses that name because the Rosetta Stone actually taught us how to read Ancient Egyptian and as such the modern Rosetta Stone is not only teaching children to read, but also teaching them to understand the complexities of modern science?
This is a fun book. It's a short read with lots of action. Also, there are many unexpected twists. For instance, when the police motorcycle sidecar is flying in the air, it looks like it's headed for the city. Lo and behold, on the next page it's smashed through a boat. The city does come...several pages later. I can't say the wait was long or bad, and the events leading up to it were fun. I will admit the ending to this is rather abrupt, and there's not much in the way of resolution.Good read nonetheless.
Because a Little Bug Went Ka-Choo takes readers on a comical journey about how one little action can create a large ripple effect.
I would use this book to talk about not only that lesson, but also about the cause and effect text structure pattern.
The book is a great way to introduce students to this pattern, as it starts with one tiny action that spirals into something much bigger.
I would then have them create their own “ripple effect story,” using Because a Little Bug Went Ka-Choo as a mentor text.
After this fun introduction, I would introduce non-fiction examples of this same text structure.
The events that follow get crazier and crazier as the book progresses and leave the reader on the edge when it ends because the narrator says the events are still happening as far as he knows.This book is simple, but that allows the teacher to teach a complex concept and take it further with a writing prompt or activity.
It is also a great way to lead into a complex book when the teacher wants the students to focus on cause and effect or how one event can change the rest of history.This can also lead into discussion of why certain things happen, like the Why activity in Gallagher.
I read this book to a group of elementary school children at a women and children's homeless shelter in Phoenix and they loved it so much they asked me to read it aloud again.
This book, although it may be funny, teaches an important lesson.
It teaches its readers that even the smallest action can have a big effect on others.
The smallest thing can make a big difference.
I think that is a great lesson for any child to learn, and I would recommend this book to any teacher, parent, or guardian who wants to get a good laugh out of their kids while teaching an important lesson.
This book can be used to introduce cause and effect relationships. The book shows that no matter how small the cause is the effect can triple. The book can also help students understand that for every action in the classroom there can also be a consequence.
A favorite as a kid, and to read to my own kids. Cute and fun, while also teaching something about cause and effect.
Because a little bug sneezed "Ka-choo!" a lot of things happens afterwards.
And all because a little bug went "ka-choo"!!Theme: there is always a consequence to every actionPersonal statement: I think is a good book to show how everything we do has a reaction.
I will recommend this book, especially on a class setting because it can show children how if they do something, they need to know there will be a consequence to their actions, and I think is important they know that during this age.
A fun idea about a little thing causing a big problem, due to anger. Good lesson, but when a book gets a "Cat in the Hat" label, certain expectations come. The illustrations are similar to Seuss, but less other-worldly. The words occasionally rhyme and rhythm, but not consistently. It left me wishing for a little more.
I like this book because it closely resembles a dr. Seuss book by the way it is written and how it is illustrated. I like the illustrations as well and it has a very funny sequence to it. I think this book could be used to help teach sequencing and is a fun way to introduce it. This book is modern fantasy and is in the 1st-5th grade range
A fun surprise by Dr. Seuss. It's a a clever tale about cause and effect and consequences. It shows how one little thing can lead to more and more things happening, especially things done in anger. I quite enjoyed this book.
Read w Theodore in big bear. We've had this title for a while but I never logged it in. Great story.
My son finally covers his mouth when he sneeze and coughs!!!
oh my goodness so cute! can't believe I haven't read some of these books!
A book on primary chaos theory in which one small event creates utter disaster with no one truly at fault.
I would have liked more rhymes..and to know more about this amazingly strong worm!
The book that I assume inspired the Ashton Kutcher-led film, "The Butterfly Effect."---Actual line from this book: "Because that nut dropped, a turtle got bopped."
One of Jojo's favorites
This is an excellent book for beginning readers. The illustrations are interesting and the story keeps young readers turning from one page to the next.
I recently bought this for my youngest daughter because I have such good memories of this book growing up. She loves it now too :)
Delightful whimsy.
Sheesh! Who'd have thought one little sneeze could cause such a disaster?
cause and effect, sort of
One of my favorite children's book of all time.
As a child, I would read this from beginning to end again and again in a single sitting.
It made me giggle hysterically no matter how many times I read it.
It was only recently that I had to go in search of a new copy of this book in order to satisfy the child in me that was still calling out to read it again.
It's brand new, doesn't have all the crayon marks in it like my original copy, but it still makes me giggle.
I don't know exactly what it is about this book, but it is one of my favorites that I read when I was going through these little books I picked up from the library...It was just funny to see all the "chaos" one little bugs sneeze caused!
And it made me wonder if some of the crazy things that have happened in this world, like a pebble hitting the windshield, could be because of a little bug sneezing...Now, I know, that's just crazy..but hey, who knows right?
:-)Oh, The Thinks You Can Think review and Explanation of why I picked these up
This is a great book to use in grades K-2 maybe even 3rd. Because the book is filled with cause and effect examples, this book would be an awesome tool to use to introduce the concept of cause and effect to students. This book is also filled with rhyming words so a teacher could use this book to introduce rhymes, and how words rhyme with each other.  After reading the book a teacher could have the students come up with a class room list of rhyming words. Or the teacher could also introduce a sci
Because the book is filled with cause and effect examples, this book would be an awesome tool to use to introduce the concept of cause and effect to students.
This book is also filled with rhyming words so a teacher could use this book to introduce rhymes, and how words rhyme with each other.
After reading the book a teacher could have the students come up with a class room list of rhyming words.
Or the teacher could also introduce a science unit on cause and effect and the students could try out different experiments that show cause and effect.
In this cute story a little bug sneezes, and then craziness ensues while we follow the chain of events that follow. With rhyming words and colorful illustrations, children are sure to be captivated by this fast pace story. Also, this would be a great book when introducing cause and effect to your students. Every page shows an example of a cause and effect situation, and the overuse of 'because' really highlights this. This is a story I would recommend to be included in every early elementary school classroom!
I read this to K or 1st grade students when they are working on Dr Seuss books.
The classroom teachers already have large collections of Dr Seuss books but this one is interesting because it is the only one he wrote under the pen name 'Rosetta Stone'.
It is also a bit different than many Dr Seuss books because it is not written with his usual trisyllabic meter.
It is a good book to start a discussion of cause and effect, and it is also good for checking to see how well the students can recall the order of major events in a story.
Because a Little Bug Went Ka-choo follows the sequence of events that happen when a bug sneezes. Because the bug sneezes, somethings drops, because something drops, men fly off their ship and so forth. This funny and creative story teaches children about the consequences something small can have on something big. The illustrations are colorful and full of animation allowing kids to constantly have their eyes wandering and looking through the story at every thing that is happening.
