https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/820273.Sheep_in_a_Jeep
This is one of few books able to transcend the inadequacies of human communication. It explores profound spiritual journey, deep loss, personal transformation, and bitter disillusionment. It challenges and critically analyzes society as we know it. This book embarks upon an exploration of the range of human emotion, and challenges the resilience of the spirit of humanity.
A long-time favorite, this was a repeat request read when my kids were leetle ones.
(P.S. to those who think the subject matter might be disturbing: Unless they suffer from car-accident-induced PTSD, kids aren't bothered by the likes of jeeps crashing in picture books.
They don't have the life experience to make the negative connection, so it's just funny to them.
Toy cars crash all the time without disastrous consequences.
It's the adults who might have problems with that sort of thing, and look to protect children from *their* negative projections.
Jeeps crash, people.
It's okay!
It's just a book!
My son has autism and although he is 10 he likes younger books that he can read successfully himself. This one also has many words with 'S' so it provides good practice for his speech!
Everything about this book is A's current jam.
Sheep in a Jeep by Nancy E.
Shaw is the first in Shaw's Sheep series.
Five silly sheep rhyme their way through a totally unsuccessful drive.Sheep push the stalled jeep so that it gets stuck in mud.
Sheep then try to sell the wrecked jeep!This story features a rhyming text, a large, bold font, about fifty words, and lots of repetition making it work well as a beginning reader.
The sheep exhibit an entertaining number of expressions.
The tatooed pigs are a highlight.For ages 2 to 6, beginning readers, rhyming, phonics, humor, sheep, transportation themes, and fans of the sheep, and Nancy E.
It was a cute well written children's book.
This book first caught my eye because of the red Jeep on the cover, owning a similar jeep I dove head first into this mind boggling 32 page masterpiece thinking it would help with the sheep like noises coming from my jeep.
I learned all too quick that this book was well beyond my age when I failed to realize that sheep cannot drive a jeep!
I will give this book a 1 star rating for story and illustrations but I will bump it up to a 3 star rating for the picture of the red jeep.
A current favorite of my son's-we're reading it nightly at the moment. We read a lot of children's books, and sometimes I post them here, if they are really noteworthy. We love everything about this book! The illustrations of the sheep really convey the emotions they're experiencing as they completely screw up their attempts at driving their jeep for the first time. They're really funny, and my 4 year old loves them. The story is funny too, and is told in simple couplets that are easy to memorize for a child, and great for beginning readers.
When three of my younger siblings were little, they loved this book, having my siblings and I read it to them multiple times a day. Though it's been around five years since we lost it, I still can recite the whole book from memory. It's a fun story, with cheerful rhyming and colorful illustrations.
Text-to-teaching connectionWe can do an art activity creating our own individual sheep. I will already have my example placed on the board so that it is visual to each child. I will have all materials placed on each table and they will have a certain amount of time to complete this activity. When time is up anybody who would like to share will be more than welcomed to do so. After presentations, if any we place our activity around the classroom. We will clean up and move on to our next assignment.
Some sheep set out for a ride in their jeep and meet misfortune along the way.My 3yo really enjoyed this book. The rhyming is really fun and the story has a lot of humor. It's a quick read and would be great for a beginning reader to see how letters work together to make a sound.
Simply amazing!! So good! It's hilarious, fun, and pretty tricky to read if you aren't careful. Straight up fun and good times! I've gotta get the other books in the series now.
A great book for early readers with short sentences. It also has rhyming through out and would be a great way to introduce it to a class. The book has vivid pictures full of color.
It is a funny, short, and rhyming story. Many sound words and action words make it very lively. Young children will learn many new vocabularies from this simple short story.
Sheep in a Jeep  by Nancy Shaw and illustrated by Margot Apple is an average rhyming book for children.
Children would probably love hearing a story about the antics of sheep driving a jeep and subsequently getting it stuck in mud, having to push it up a hill, and crashing to pieces since these are not things that barnyard animals typically do.
She used what looked like colored pencils to create images for this silly story, and did a good job of keeping them light and fun to match the plot.
Apple did a wonderful job with matching the illustrations to the text.
Summary: "Beep!
Beep!
Plummeting over a hill, tumbling into a mud puddle, yelping for help, these muttonheads just can't get their act together, much to the delight of young readers.Nancy Shaw's Seussian rhymes are guaranteed to tickle every reader's funny bone, while providing a great little learning tool, as well.
Who wouldn't want to learn how to read, after hearing lines like this: "Jeep goes splash!
Jeep goes deep in gooey mud!" Well-loved illustrator Margot Apple humorously captures the dopey expressions and preposterous predicaments of Shaw's sheep.
Good beginner's book because of the repeated words and the use of rhyme.
Cute illustrations with detail should the young reader care to look further than the obvious action presented.
I like the story, too.3/28/11 Another one with toddler potential!
Especially as we have a nice big board book version.
We'll see how it goes.4/14/11 This worked even better in toddler storytime than I would have expected.
Those who were familiar with it were so excited to have it read to them.
Short, rhyming text with illustrations not too difficult to figure out during an arm sweep.
Yay for good ones!
I love this silly rhyming book!
It was one of my favorites when I was a kid, I learned to read with this book.
A bunch of sheep in a jeep get stuck, they all jump out to push and it ends up in the mud.
With the help of some friendly pigs they get out only to crash in to a tree!
This doomed road trip is made even more hilarious by the colored pencil illustrations.
The facial on the sheep are priceless!
The sing-songy words make it easy for young kids to follow and they will soon know the book by heart.
The rhyming words in this book tickle your ears!
It would be great for introducing problem-solving and growth mindset skills to young people.
There are times we need to ask for help.
There are times we need to "wave the white flag" and move on .
The connection to focus and concentration skills with young readers is right on target.
The illustrations are also entertaining and engaging for the young.
The board book binding can "take a licking and keep on ticking" with little hands turning the sturdy pages over and over again.
Sheep in a Jeep / written by Nancy Shaw ; illustrated by Margot Apple -- Boston: Houghton Mifflin Company, c1986.
(32 pages)SUMMARY: Records the misadventures of a group of sheep that go riding in a jeep.REVIEW: These sheep sure aren't smart as one mishap leads to another and another mishap.
The rhyming is short, keeps the story moving, and is not the same old same old words used in children's books.NOTE: I remember when this title first came out and I feel instantly in love with it.
#1) I had a sheep collection so anything with sheep on or in it drew my attention.
This story is great for assisting in articulation because you can elicit many target sounds for the child.
The rhyming nature of this story benefits the child and can improve memorization skills and increase phonological awareness.
One could use it for story retell, where the clinician first reads the story, and then the child is asked to retell it to the best of their memory.
The story can be used for consequences as the Jeep and the Sheep suffer some mishaps as the story prevails.
For working on verbs, the clinician and child can actively try out the verbs in the story (i.e. cheer, leap, sweep, etc.).
Sheep in a Jeep is a book about 5 sheep in a jeep, the troubles they come across, and do about them. It is a cute story with one sentence of text on each page and cute pictures that is likely to captivate most children. There is a rhyme in the sentence on every page that makes the story even more engaging. There are social-emotional aspects in working together and helping others. There are cognitive aspects in problem-solving. There are even science aspects in the use of gravity and inertia. The ending will have all ages cracking up.
"Sheep in a Jeep" is really a deep. A fleet of irresponsible sheeps were riding together in a jeep (with more sheeps than seats), and as the jeep went down a very steep hill, they crashed into a swamp that was fifteen feet deep. No sheep was hurt, but too much of the swamp had seeped into the jeep. The sheeps weeped tearfully. With no choice left, they sweep the usable parts into a heap, and sold their broken jeep for cheap.The moral of the story is to not fall asleep at the wheel.As you sow, so shall you reap.
A group of sheep climb into a jeep and have a good time.
That is, until they get stuck in mud and eventually crash into a tree.
The colorful, cute illustrations in this book make for a toddler friendly experience.
I gave this book four stars because it has a good plot with rhymes weaved in the whole way.
While reading this with kids, they'll start to pick up on the rhymes and can even read along.
This makes it helpful as a spring board for discussion on rhymes.
I also like this book because it is a good length for the age it's directed at.
Sheep in a Jeep is a developmentally age appropriate book that I enjoyed reading. While reading the story it leaves you guessing and wondering what happens next. The sheep being a jeep is not realistic but that is one aspect that makes it fun to read. The sheep going "beep beep" in the jeep becuase that is what car horns do. Gives it an onomatopoeia. This story uses rhyme, onomatopoeias, uses colorful pictures and expressive and hilarious illustrations.
When it comes to personal favorites, this one surprisingly doesn't make the top ten. It's a great book don't get me wrong, and shouldn't be over looked, but I have other rhyming books that I like way better. That said, it's a hilarious book. Children love it because of how absurd it is, with the sheep trying to drive a jeep. It has great simple rhymes and moves quickly to keep the attention of a young audience.
This book's pictures are very cute, so children like it. They liked their jeep but they didn't use it preciously. I think this book shows people have to use their own things preciously. And also at last the jeep was on sale-cheap. This part they didn't realize their faults and just threw out the thing they liked so I think it want to show they have to try to fix them and don't think things are not to treat badly.
I picked this book up because my oldest son is about to be a father and it was one of his favorites. I haven't read it years. It brought back so many happy memories.It is a rhyming book about sheep who find a jeep and decide to ride around in it. It is silly and a great deal of fun for young children. Because of the rhyming, children are able to "help" with the reading of the story.
Sheep in a Jeep has a joyful and simple rhyming tone throughout the story. It's fun to see what the sheep get themselves into on each page and the illustrations helped tell most of the story. I for sure loved reading this as a child and still love to read it now. I think it's a book you never get tired of!
This a great rhyming book and would be a great book to read when teaching about rhyming words. The children in a classroom can talk about what may happen next and use prediction skills as well. It has a funny storyline and a funny ending as well. The book is not very long and there are not many words on each page which is good for younger readers/listeners.
