https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7747064-the-iron-daughter
Mild spoilers ahead!Since a picture's worth a thousand words and all that, allow me to sum up everything that happens in The Iron Daughter.Girl meets Boy.Girl becomes obsessed with Boy. Boy treats Girl like crap and tells her to leave him alone, after insulting her in front of everyone.Girl does not react like this, as any self-respecting female would have.Or even this, which would have sufficed.Girl decides to weep instead.Friend falls for Girl.Girl pines after Boy anyway.Boy tells Girl they can't be together.
Girl runs to Friend for comfort.
Boy and Girl live happily ever after.
I elope with Friend.
I wasn't sure if I was going to give it 4 or 5 stars, because this book is very good, but it does has one mayor flaw that I found to be annoying.Meghan and Ash. When you think about it...
But having those kind of feelings for somebody who is still a stranger smells a little too much like Bella & Edward to me.
Like laughing at a funeral inappropriate.
I think even Ironhorse would have hidden under the bed when he heard me laughing.
Nah. It didn't work for me.However, I like Ash a lot and I also liked the way this book ended, even if it was pretty predictable.
I did not laugh or giggle once throughout the beginning, considering that Prince Ash is an absolute bore.When Puck finally made his grand entrance as a raven on page 115, I shrieked and proceeded to do my happy dance.
Before that, I was utterly furious at Meghan for romantically turning to Puck after being turned down by Ash. I wanted to strangle her with her own hair and dump her into a river.
That is one of the reasons why I do not want Ash and Meghan as a couple.
I just don't want Puck still pining for Meghan at the end of the series.
The second book in 'The Iron Fey' series, 'The Iron Daughter' definitely had my attention from start to finish.
However, it also had a healthy dose of action for the adventure junkies out there.'The Iron Daughter' begins with Meghan in captivity at the Winter Court.
Ash is faced with the same feelings of betrayal that Meghan had been forced to cope with when the tables are turned on him.
This series featured one of my biggest pet peeves in a story, beginning in the first book and only becoming more pronounced in subsequent books--the "perfect, dead ex-girlfriend".
The stakes weren't as personal to my soul (since book 1 was all about Meghan saving her little brother vs this one is just ya know...stopping the destruction of all the fey who are horrible anyway but apparently Meghan is much nicer than I'll ever be) but I enjoy literally every breath that Puck and Ash take.
I am very very tired.Whereas we have ASH AND PUCK who will happily stab each other forever and then stop each other bleeding out because what !!
I love everything except Meghan wow sorry about that!!
I've heard weather in Hell is so beautiful this time of year.But stop bullying Meghan, now.Basically, I think that to understand what I think of this book it will suffice you to read my riview of The Iron King, multiplying by googolplex (isn't this a lovely number, now?) all the negative things I said about Meghan, about the plot being uninteresting and, I add here, repetitive, about Meghan, about the characters not speaking to me, about Meghan, about Kagawa's unsatisfying, clumsy and shabby use of mythology, and at last about oh-how-much-I-want-to-kill-you-slowly Meghan.
This is made all the worse by her admission that she’s being an idiot, preventing me from ever having any sympathy for her again.- Meghan learns of numerous precautions Ash put into place (at great risk to himself) to ensure her well-being, yet she still considers the possibility that he used glamour to manipulate her affections.- And the most confounding moment: Her love, for whom her soul was crying earlier on, sits in a corner dying.
Disappointing.Were this series a trilogy, I would willingly pick up the next book for the resolution of the iron fey plot.
2.5*I know I would have loved this five years ago. Sadly it's not 2013, and these days I demand better love triangle than this one in my stories.
Not exactly the turf that a Summer Court Princess (albeit half-human, half-fey) would feel comfortable in but Meaghan had made a promise to Ash and to the fey, promises are everything.I'm going to keep this review spoiler-free, so let me just say that the book may start off with the fulfillment of a promise but where it leads you is so unbelievably unexpected that you will be gasping out loud.
That unbelievably good.But that's not the best part.
It said, "He's breaking my heart, but in a good way."A full five-stars to Julie Kagawa's The Iron Daughter.
The first one, it was really good but I never thought I'd give the next one 5 stars, but it really was amazing so I couldn't help but giving the highest rating there is.
Ash delivers Meghan to the Unseelie Court.
Like the first one, this was full of adventure.
Meghan has lost her powers so she's kind of at the mercy of the other's help.
You know why.Ash, the icy prince, well, he's not going to be icy for long.
The romance is heating up, the adventure got better, the plot thickens, the characters are wonderful.
Note: OMG the ending, God the ending kills man, you've got to read this blah blah blah. Love it I need the next book right now!Book Review for Iron Daughter by Julie Kagawa (Ray William Johnson Style)Note: Ray William Johnson is one of my fave vloggers on Youtube. His videos are called Equals Three or =3 and he's *bleep sound* funny, need I say more?What's Happening Forum? Guys now I'm going to review this book and yeah let's use pros and cons to make it a teensy bit organize...shall we?Cool Tra
Okay the Unseelie Court was super bad-ass.2.
Queen Mab was super bad-ass, seriously.3.
The Queen of the Exiles Lea was super bad-ass (the *bleep sound* with this word?
Puck was *bleep sound* funny and super bad-ass.(why the *bleep sound* is this review so retarded?)7.
It got me surprised that tuuuuut is Meghan's tuuuuuut and it was like Holy *bleep sound* Christ Geezus!
The Meghann, Ash and Puck teen love drama was *bleep sound* hilarious.
It is abrupt and like there's no reason at all why the *bleep sound* they love each other.
Meghan don't *bleep sound* deserve Puck!
While I think Meghan only did it because she was lonely and Ash wasn’t there, I was still really happy for Puck.
And let me tell you, Ash's "I'm treating you like crap because I have to because I don't want to look bad in front all my all mighty mother" is not a good excuse.
It doesn't make me feel empathy towards you, it only makes me laugh at you.I won't be starting The Iron Queen right away; I think I need a break from Meghan's stupidity for a little bit.
There was enough drama and angst in the romance front already, no need to add a third love interest in there...
It would be perfect for them, but I believe it looses its powers of magic on the rest of us:):):) No, we are not old, just have had some of those angst-inducing love affairs a few to many times to want to willingly root for another one of those in an imaginary scenario:):):) I wish the youngsters to enjoy and read with abandon!!!
Now I wish you all Happy Reading and may you always find what you need in the pages of a good Book!!!
This was just coooooool ♥ (while we are at it, i dont even know how to write this review properly).So...before you read this one, i suggest you read the Winter's Passage which is kind of necessary because it shows how Ash feels for Meghan and his warnings to her about Winter's court (which she, of course, ignores) and the trip to the Winter's court, with a danger around.
And Puck is back in this book and kicking assess and being sarcastic and all - and i know he loves Meghan too, but Meg really loves Ash so it makes it awkward...
They story has a powerful and thrilling plot which brings readers on a journey to retrieve the Scepter of Seasons which was stolen by a new kind of Faery called The Iron Fey.The beginning of the story started with Meghan staying in Tir Na Nog, the Winter Court, where Queen Mab is the monarch.
Remember that, because the next time you forget your place, I'll remind you with my blade." --- Ash, page 28Meghan can't go home, and her father, King Oberon has no way to free her because she is there on a contract of her own free will.
How will the love triangle between Puck, Meghan and Ash end?
I have no clue what they found attractive about each other, their love just...happened, because it was supposed to happen.Ash is described as a handsome silver-eyed Winter prince who has this whole bad-boy thing going which is freakin’ hot, I know that.
Okay, so Ash and Meghan confessed their dopey love for each other but then Ash told her not to trust his actions in the Winter Land because he needed to pull on a façade of being a perfect prince so he could protect her.
To me, The Iron Daughter is a book ruined by the horror known to readers as silly unrealistic YA romance love triangle.Can you see the horror?
Last but not least, the love triangle between her, Ash and Puck is sickeningly unrealistic.Evil love triangles, stay away from me!!!!The romance between Ash and Meghan is so bad that I don't know whether I should LOL or start crying.
*sighs* (hide spoiler)]And the book turns out to be a bit too predictable, (view spoiler)[I dare say Meghan will turn out to be Iron Queen later.
I love this series too much!!!! I promise my review's are coming but after this cliffhanger I can't NOT read The Iron Queen!
But I could not take any of the Ash/Megan romance seriously.
I hate weak female characters, they just ugh!More than half of this book is just her whining about how Ash doesn't love her.
Of course she did, why not divide the fans eh?Clearly, I'm not a fan of the icy stone-hearted bad-boy-cliche-stock-character-Edward-Cullen prince Ash. I'm a fan of Puck.
I mean - seriously - why can't the best friend get the girl for once?Puck, unlike Ash, is a unique character.
I don't even know if I want to read the next book after that.
(view spoiler)[ I can't freaking believe that after all that, Megan still joins Ash. She left Puck.
After rescuing Ethan from the land of Nevernever, Meghan must pay for the promise she made from the winter prince.
I felt so sorry to the owner that I want to change the book with a new one.How come I came up with three stars since I love the first and the novella before The Iron Daughter?
I keep on reading but it seems that I can't connect to the book.
You want to punch her but you can't and you keep on dialing it until you get annoyed.I also don't like the love or the romance between Ash and Meghan.
You might not want to read the rest of this review if you haven’t read book number one, because it might be a tad bit SPOILERY!
I loved Meghan in the first novel....
Where the heck was that girl at the end of the first book, the one that did what she had to do!
I mean, come on Meghan, I know you are in love with Ash....
I think old Meghan would have picked up on that.
Thank goodness someone hit her over the head and I got old Meghan back!
Like I’m going to tell you.
This book had even higher stakes than the first. Loved being in Queen Mab's court and the imagery of the ice and the environment there. Fell even more for Ash. And Ironhorse? Loved him in human form. The whole world of the NeverNever is scary and yet I love it all the more for that.
My dear friends who took part in Chelsea's birthday's buddy read can attest how much I got lost in this outstanding world, my heart aching to come back there.
Seriously : It took him only one apparition to warm my heart and send a flutter of emotions through me like crazy.
"I already have."Edit : Okay, so after some remarks I got about Meghan I feel the need to add some thoughts : YES, she isn't our kick-ass heroine, and sometimes she makes mistakes, and she's obsessed with Ash, yes.
I love Ash, he makes my stomach do flip flops and my pulse race and I devoured this book just like its predecessor.
Meghan told Ash too soon that she loved him.
She started getting on my nerves when she acted all devastated because Ash ignored her as soon as they had reached the Winter Court.
But hey, there’s the Winter Formal at Meghan's old school that night, how very convenient, so why not take him there?
After that, I couldn’t help but imagine Ash looking something like this or this.
I’m dying to read Iron Queen.I ♥ Ash.
I'm blown away and in complete awe of this book!I don't want to say to much about the story itself since everyone just needs to pick this up A.S.A.P, but I will say that it's Incredible!Julie Kagawa has out did herself.
Loved every second of this epic adventure and I am crazily waiting to see how this beloved series will wrap up in The Iron Queen!!If you haven't read the first one *cough Arlene&Morgan cough* then you need to pick it up!
Most of this book went something like this: "Hey, let's get ourselves in hopeless situations and wait for the cat to show up and save us."I'm kidding, of course.
Even I do, and I haven't finished the series yet!).And even though I'm totally Team Ash, I really like the scenes with Puck, because he has the funniest lines.
I mean, there you are, picturing some huge guy with dreadlocks who talks in all-caps and then his name is IRONHORSE.
This was a fun book (I liked it much more than the first one), and if you're into fairies, you should totally read it.
Actual Rating: 2.5 starsI enjoyed this one better than the first.I quite liked the end, however I think that the book would have had more impact without the epilogue.I prefer Julie Kagawa's Blood of Eden series. To be fair, I am not that interested in The Fey fantasies, while I can't get enough of vampires. The Iron King (The Iron Fey #1) - 2 starsThe Iron Queen (The Iron Fey #3) - 1.5 starsThe Iron Knight (The Iron Fey #4) - 1 stars
Then she seems shocked when the thing that people told her would happen happens.All of the characters act like petulant children.
2) Mab said Oberon couldn't have her back because she made a deal with Ash to come to her.
Wouldn't that bargain have been fulfilled when she went back with Ash?
Fae are supposed to be crafty and manipulative and spot pathetic loopholes like that a mile away.
It was clear in The Iron King that Puck had feelings for Meghan although it wasn't brought up.
From the start of this she acted like Ash was the love of her life.
Reading commences.Connie: Whut?Me: Let’s keep reading.Connie: She’s annoying me.Me: I know but we enjoyed the first one.
I don’t even… He calls her names, he treats her like shit, okay yeah, I know that he “loves” her and is hurting her for “her own good” but COME ON NOW, HIT HIM, HIT HIM WITH SOMETHING HARD AND MAKE HIM CRY.Me: Connie?Connie: *snarl* What?Me: Calm down.Connie: I’m quite calm, thank you.Time passes.
Whut?Me: Well…at least there was Ash.Connie: If you ever make me read stuff like this again, I’m going to…well, I don’t know what I’m going to do but it’s going to be terrible!
Despite the fact that I feel Meghan obsessed a little too much over Ash (especially in the beginning), this book was amazing. The character development, plot and storyline made up for most misgivings of Meghan's flaws. I'm really looking forward to reading the 3rd book!
