https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2146620.Los_que_aman_odian
Rodolfo Wilcox—they might be thought of as a sort of South American Inklings, only without the collective name for their group, and they had one other trait going for them unshared by the Inklings: talent.
It does, but always while creating the impression that something else is going on—if not in the story, then in the text: a narrator, a fussy doctor who self-doses with arsenic, guides, manipulates, interprets, solves, resolves, a murder in a remote South American resort.
3.5 stars, rounded up, because I liked it, and it carried the single trait I’ve come to expect in best short stories or novellas: nothing extraneous.
Un policial clásico y entretenido, con las consabidas pistas falsas y múltiples sospechosos. Todo transcurre en un hotel alejado, y casi que entre cuatro paredes. Y este aspecto me resulta hoy en día, en tiempos de policiales negros para todos los gustos, un poco arcaico. Cero alusión a contextos históricos o sociales, cero problema fuera del caso sobre el que gira la acción. Todo resulta un poco artificioso. Así y todo mantiene el interés y no defraudará a quienes gustan del género.
Me encanta el título porque da para pensar (mucho más en estos tiempos) y la novela tiene todos los tintes necesarios para que sea policial.
Va en busca de la soledad que necesita un escritor (porque también escribe) a Bosque del Mar. Se aloja en el hotel de unos parientes y conoce a algunos de los huéspedes, sobre todo a Emilia y Mary Gutiérrez, que son el centro de la atención.
No sé si la extensión de la novela estuvo pactada antes de escribirla, pero sentí que hubo una especie de apuro por resolver las cosas.
The first thing I noticed about WHERE THERE’S LOVE, THERE’S HATE, a sort of detective novel satire that’s really a mediation on reading, is that such a slim niche book would never get published today.
Of course, I’m wrong.The Argentinean novel, originally published in 1946, is making its first foray into English thanks to the wonderful independent publisher Melville House.
A few I picked out, like the name of a dingy being the Joseph K, and the many more I’m sure to have missed.
The murder victim is a translator of detective novels.
My interpretation is far afield from the author’s goals, I’m sure, but I’ll let it stand like an epitaph.
Co-authors (and Argentine literary power couple who never otherwise collaborated directly on a novel) Casares and Ocampo were friends of Borges and their own brand of fantacist and surrealist (respectively) in their own right so they imbue this story of a mysterious death on vacation with eerie beachscapes, odd narrative ellipses, and postmodern sleights of hand with allude back to the process and structure of literature itself.
It's a crime that I've read so much more Casares than Ocampo to date, actually, I need to track dow more of her novels.
Casares and Ocampo managed to produce an interesting mystery in the "British country house" style that is a clever murder mystery, a witty parody of those same Golden Age novels, and a highly literary piece of fiction all rolled into one.
Although the police are immediately on the scene, Huberman takes it upon himself to investigate and give the officials pointers when he thinks it needed.
Then the owner's young son goes missing as well as Emilia's fiance (who winds up being a top-level Inspector).
And what really happened to Mary and her jewels?This short piece is a fine little self-aware novel.
There's nothing special about this routine variation on the theme of a murder committed in an enclosed location, with a limited number of suspects. I was never really engaged with the puzzle, and only enjoyed the evocation of the wind-blown shore and the idiosyncrasies of the narrator. These were very minor pleasures and I feel rather aggravated by the grandiose claims made by Suzanne Jill Levine in her introduction to this edition. This story doesn't even deserve a footnote in Argentinian literary history.
Una novela anticuada y encantadora, para leer en un día ocioso y sentirse un savoir vivre como el narrador (o como el mismísimo Adolfito). La trama puede asemejarse a un whodoneit, y nada más equivocado. Si bien hay un médico culto e inteligente que llega a un hotel ubicado en una playa apartada, y lo que sigue gira en torno al crimen de un huésped, la resolución del misterio importa menos que los detalles. Como si Bioy hubiese escrito un primer borrador de La invención de Morel dictado por Silvina.
Quick and easy. Casares writes effortlessly, laying a subtle veneer of sarcasm and humor over this send up of mysteries and detective stories. Using the isolated house in the country, or in this case, the beach, ala "Ten Little Indians", Casares and his wife Sylvia Ocampo collaborated on this one. The effect is not unlike the slightly off kilter touch Alfred Hitchcock mysteries often contained, although this predates it by several years.
Re-read, this time, with the students
The husband/wife team of Adolfo Bioy-Casares and Silvina Ocampo are responsible for a hilarious detective novel, Where There's Love, There's Hate.
(You may recall that Bioy-Casares collaborated with Jorge Luis Borges on several classics of Argentinian literature under the combined name of H.
A Doctor Cornejo is likewise found dead by poisoning.During the time the investigation takes place there is an intensive days-long sandstorm that blows dunes around the ground floor windows.
Leaving the hotel is somewhat perilous, because of a crab bog and quicksand near stands of esparto grass in the area.
Eventually, the poisonings are solved, leaving no one looking the better for the solution.
No está nada mal, sin embargo tiene algunos desenlaces extraños, como si se hubieran aburrido al final y quisieron terminar el libro.
So, according to the lady who 'did' for Bioy and Silvina, those two were hard at it like rabbits several times a day, often leaving their guests to themselves for half an hour's bedroom sport in the afternoon.
Making their characters sneak, lurk and prattle just doesn't cut it; throwing in an actual story would not have constituted an excessive show of courtesy, to quote the narrator.The murder victim in this one is a translator working on books by, among others, Michael Innes and Eden Phillpotts.
Could Bioy and Silvina have been looking 15 years into the future here, or is that their translator's interpolation?
Muy entretenida la lectura y me trajo muchos recuerdos de la época en que leía mil libros de Agatha Christie por semana. Pero por eso, justamente, no me pude sacar de la cabeza a Diez Negritos en todo el trayecto de lectura. No había leído nada de estos autores, así que seguiré probando sus textos.
I liked this; a quirky, funny mystery that makes fun of the genre while being a good read in itself. Goodreads Read Harder Challenge: A mystery by a person of color or LGBTQ+ author Challenge complete! This was really fun and I read and enjoyed some things I probably wouldn’t have picked up otherwise. (I’m on my second Miss Marple right now.) Here’s to 2019!
No lo pude terminar de lo aburrido que es. Qué decepción!!
4/5 estrellas.Es cortito pero sumamente intenso;en menos de 200 páginas te cuenta una historia que queda sin cabos sueltos.Me gusto mucho epro estando ellas dos en la escritura no puedo ser imparcial porque los adoro.
La policía irrumpe para investigar la misteriosa muerte y Huberman colabora activamente con la investigación.La novela Los que aman, odian está narrada en primera persona por el doctor Humberto Huberman, un narrador testigo que nos relata todo lo que ocurrió durante su estadía en Bosque del Mar. La novela consta de 34 capítulos breves y, en total, tiene solo 149 páginas por lo que se lee muy rápido.Se trata de una novela policial tradicional, similar a las de Agatha Christie, pero que transcurre en Argentina en la década del cuarenta, lo que le da un toque especial.
3.5/5Un clásico argentino que volvió a ser 'conocido' si se quiere por la película homónima (que no le hace justicia debo agregar) donde la trama, a pesar de tener pocas páginas, se desarrolla de forma clara y concisa, señalando que todos podrían ser el asesino pero que sorprende al final. No me voló la cabeza por la sorpresa pero cumple su cometido. Reseña completa en STCLOUDS.BLOGSPOT.COM
This was a decent spoof of mysteries. A remote hotel and a dead woman. There were parts that were terrific and weird and played up the traditions of mysteries really well, but it was kind of pedestrian for a lot of it.
A spoof on closed room mysteries, a homage to Golden Age crime novels, and a fun piece of literature in its own right, written by Argentinian husband-wife team Adolfo Bioy Casares and Silvina Ocampo. But it is too flimsy to give it more than 2 stars...
I mostly just found this irritating. It was a seeming satire of detective novels, but the narrator was super annoying and the whole thing didn't really interest me. I can't help but wonder if there's some cultural context I'm missing.
Este libro se desarrolla en el viejo hotel Ostende, cuando aún había allí médanos y arena para tapar parte del hotel. He leído muy poco de estos dos autores y debo decir que este libro no me hace salir a buscar corriendo algún libro de ellos, mas bien lo contrario.
A little simplistic compared to Casares' other books.
Nice little pastiche of the bumbling amateur detective who solves (or fails to) the mystery - not great but a nice little tidbit
I checked wikipedia & found this footnote: "According to Thomas Beltzer, in Last Year at Marienbad: An Intertextual Meditation, the film script may have been based in part on The Invention of Morel, a science fiction novel published in 1940 by the Argentine writer Adolfo Bioy Casares.
Although Alain Robbe-Grillet acknowledged familiarity with the novel of Bioy Casares, Alain Resnais had not read the book at the time of making the film.
This was one of my most anticipated reads of the year, and I'm a bit disappointed that it didn't turn out as promising as I'd hoped.
When I found out it was a murder mystery too -- and especially the 1930s-1940s classic mysteries that I love -- I thought I'd stumbled onto a hidden gem.On the positives, each chapter is really short so this is a pretty quick story to read.
When I found out the main character was named Humberto Huberman, I thought, right, this is going to be really funny.
But how would this book hold up as a murder mystery in its own right?
Basically, this is a send up of the detective genre of fiction.
To be honest, this book reminded me of an old Neil Simon movie from the seventies, Murder By Death but with a much stronger intellectual approach and not so much silliness.Casares is best know for his novella, The Invention of Morel.
He is an Argentinian writer and wrote this book with his wife, Silvina Ocampo, a writer as well.
Having read Where There's Love, There's Hate, I will definitely have to get a book by Ocampo.Where There's Love, There's Hate is an enjoyable book that skewers detective fiction and intellectual snobbery.
I found it enjoyable and well worth recommending to others looking to expand their reading horizons.
This tiny (128 pages) Argentinian murder mystery was originally published in 1946 and translated into English in 2013.
A murder (or is it suicide?) takes place in a remote seaside hotel with only a few possible suspects.
The main narrator is Doctor Humberto Huberman who, although a suspect himself, also plays the role of assistant investigator when the police finally show up.Dr. Huberman reminded me of Agatha Christie's Poirot; he is a bit vain and also much attached to his meals.
The writing was a bit difficult to follow at times, but otherwise fairly good.
After finishing The Invention of Morel last week, and finding it immediately among my favourite novels, I did a quick search at the library for other books by the same author, and came upon this one.
It is a snappy, very tightly plotted murder mystery on one level.
Like The Invention of Morel, it also manages to be a little romantic as well.
Though not so much a classic of literature as Morel deserves to be, this little novel is nonetheless a great book for any lover of detective novels, murder mysteries, or literary satire.
