https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18170039-the-guard
AFTER READ:Oh man, this was a painful thing to read. Aspen whined and minimized Maxon's character and feelings for the whole time up until the last few pages.Hard to understand someone's point of view when all they want is the girl, not considering that maybe he's risking her life.URGH.BEFORE READ:I will not be swayed, Kiera Cass.Maxon is my forever boy.(But I'll probably read this anyways).
Maxon is the one for America not aspen. Aspen may say he loves her but if he truly loved her he wouldn't have dumbed her just because he was scared. And Maxon is madly deeply in love with America she is his world.
Am I the only one who's Team Aspen? No prince can sway me off my feet. I never liked maxon. His charm don't work on me.
Aspen is badmouthing Maxon, and America does nothing!!
She just agrees with whatever Aspen says and takes it like it's the freaking word of God. And Aspen calls Maxon an actor and says that he's actually a really bad person (takes one to know one), I was just thinking, I DON'T CARE WHAT YOU THINK ASPEN LEGER.
And America keeps messing around with Aspen behind Maxon's back?!
If I hear Aspen call America "my girl" one more time I might just reach into the book and slap him so hard he sees stars.
Aspen is really naive and foolish if he can't see the sparks between America and Maxon.
3 Time was the ONLY thing ★'s  “Any girl who would risk her life for someone she loves certainly deserves to be called a lady.”  “Accepting help is its own kind of strength” Buddy read with my, girl Desireé :) The Guard novella was... Well, it was just an okay read I guess. I get a bit bored when novella's repeat parts from previous books. And if I'm being honest Aspen's POV really didn't add that much to the story which is sad because I was looking most forward to his. I guess I was looking for
Buddy read with my, girl Desireé :) The Guard novella was...
And though I distaste repeated scenes (scenes from book 2) it was still nice getting a look into his thoughts and feelings and his desires.
The old man gives some pretty good advice too :) My rating for this book has nothing to do with my liking or not liking Aspen.
For the record, I have always loved Aspen ever since the first book!
Moving on to The Favorite :) Illustration of Aspen & What I picture he'd look like.“I stored up every moment like it was a physical thing.
*MC’S CORNER**THESE ARE THE THINGS I NOTICED, WISHES & COMMENTS*Why should America choose Maxon instead of Aspen?• To Aspen,You don’t deserve America. I know you sacrificed everything, taking risk just to see her even though you know the consequences that might happen if you get caught. It’s your own fault that she’s in-love or might be in-love with another guy. I think you realized your mistake when you saw her and Maxon “together.” He’s prince and you just are a Six (now Two), you just wan
I think you realized your mistake when you saw her and Maxon “together.” He’s prince and you just are a Six (now Two), you just want to prove something.
You just want to undo what you did, but in your heart you knew you did the right choice of letting her go.•	When the rebels attacked did you notice that Maxon “gave” (he shoved her) to a guard (to Aspen) to get Mer.
*begging*•	WHO’S THE OLD MAN IN THE STABLES???At first I thought he’s Aspen’s dad.
Team Aspen i really like him, he's a good guy. Smart, brave, charm (view spoiler)[ after THE ONE this novel is just piece of trash, just bullshit (hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
❝Any girl who would risk her life for someone she loves certainly deserves to be called a lady.❞ I've said this before and since the series kept going, I didn't stop: I never liked Aspen. It's not surprising since he is one of the most hated characters simply because he would get in America's way and would ruin her relationship with Maxon. I didn't like him in Book 1 and continued disliking him until book 4. Finding out he wasn't in The Crown, I was happy, glad and cheerful. I honestly wonder w
Even though America didn't care much about that, she thought she knew she would always be with Aspen and their relationship would work out, everything would settle and they would both be happy, I knew they would have to split at some point since the series focuses on America and Maxon.I don't see how a short story told in his view was really needed.
I will read this book, because I have gone too long without the next installment of The Selection, but lets be clear about one thing...TEAM MAXTON ALL THE WAYTo be completely honest Aspen kinda gets on my nerves and I kinda wanted to smack (view spoiler)[America upside the head for making out with Aspen. The guy dumped you and you have a hot prince who is in love with you. Hello?!?! Are you out of your mind???Yes. Yes, I agree. (hide spoiler)] (Spoiler from Second Book)*sigh* But I digress. All that said.. 
  Is it February, yet?
["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
This is going to turn into a huge rant.First of all, how does Aspen figure that he knows Maxon so well?
He assumes America still loves him, he assumes Maxon is mistreating America when he never considers for one second what Maxon's life must be like.
It pissed me off in The Elite when America just believes everything Aspen says about Maxon when there is zero evidence, when she has had no reason to doubt his intentions.
Like Aspen is the expert on Maxon, considering he's spent so much time with him right?
En la saga principal siempre vemos cómo los protagonistas se esconden en los refugios y dejan que los guardias defiendan en castillo.
Mientras que aquí, en El Guardián sí que vemos cómo reaccionan a los ataques de los rebeldes, a la muerte, al peligro y al haber perdido a America en los bosques.
Esa escena, por cierto, me partió el corazón porque, a pesar de que está narrada a través de los ojos de Aspen, vemos lo mucho que sufre Maxon al no poder ir tras ella a los bosques mientras es arrastrado de vuelta al castillo con su padre.
This was my least favorite novella. It's all about Aspen and his time as a guard on the palace before he found love again with someone who wasn't America.This is a novella you can skip without missing anything at all except for maybe how Aspen and Lucy (thank you,Khadidja for reminding me her name :P), fell in love.
First of all, I got know Aspen more then I thought reading the selection series.
I got to say fall in love with Aspen more and more as I read this book.
Overall Aspen Ledger is a kind hearted, loving, protective and he has motivates for the things that he say or do when he's around America.
I think it's cute.Also just reading this book made me realize that I can't hate Aspen.
I'm a big fan of Maxon and both guys is really good for America.
But I still like him but not much as Maxon but I will definitely read this book (:
Or, had his love for America been so strong that he sacrificed his own desires to offer her a chance at a better life, one that he knew he couldn't ever offer her?
As she struggles with her feelings for the two men, Aspen offers her the emotional support she needs, while trying to keep her from losing touch with her former self.This was a quick and easy read, that I would recommend to anyone who has enjoyed this series.
Aspen's story is heartbreakingly sweet as he does everything within his power to support the girl he loves, as he watches her fall for someone else.
I like Aspen so much more now, having read his perspective.
"We know you are strong, but accepting help is its own kind of strength.”  This book was soo good! I have no idea why or how Kiera Cass manages to utterly disappoint me with a book, and then wow me with the other. She really is a kind of her own making.The Guard is an insight into the tough life of Aspen as the palace guard. His take on the whole Selection process and hearing his side of the story was very refreshingly beautiful. His endless passion for all things is obvious. I loved the way
(As was seen in Mr. Singer’s letters to America) I was stunned to see how perfectly Kiera Cass has worded each feeling and thoughts, and made them unbelievably real.
Hearing about them from America sitting in a safe room wasn’t all that informative it seems!I also was wondering how Aspen and Lucy became close, or how they could ever be a good match for each other – but this book has vanquished such doubts too.
Like, the end of the selection, America and Aspen’s marriage, or his reaction when he finds Marlee and Carter were still in the palace.
He went from pretty hot in a uniform alpha male to...I'm not a man nor have I ever been one but I'm pretty sure men don't spend every hour of every day pinning over a girl.
I mean, I could be wrong, but I don't think I am.
But this is exactly what Aspen does all day long.
Every waking moment he spends thinking about how America feels about him.
Thinking about how Maxon feels about her.
Thinking about how Maxon feels about her.
Thinking about America.
America loves me.
America loves me.
America loves me.
Solo diré que Maxon es el indicado para America, no Aspen. Aspen puede decir que la ama, pero si realmente la amara no la habría alejado solo porque estaba asustado. Y Maxon está locamente enamorado de America, ella es su mundo.
I'm just not a fan of Aspen, never will be. The fact I read this series when I was younger and was included in the love triangle? Nope. Didn't find this section enjoyable because of it.
I just don't like Aspen.
I still like Aspen best out of all the characters.
It was really nice to get Aspen's POV throughout some of the scenes in The Elite. I think a lot is still happening behind the scenes that we aren't seeing though.Either way, I love Aspen!
it calls The guard (duh)Well the guard is going to be from the Point of view of Aspen.
the one and only character i'm still not mad with.
I'm mad with america cause she hasn't make a desision yet.
"I love Maxon" *10 minutes later* "I love Aspen" C'mon, girl!
Just make a desision before I died!!
I'm mad with Maxon cause he's confused.
First he loves america, but wait he dated another girl and ALMOST SLEPT WITH ANOTHER!
I'm freaking mad with him to cause he didn't choose america at the first moment.and Aspen his only mistake was to loved America.
Oh, Aspen! I do love reading from his point of view but at the same time I do understand why the books arent divided into different point of views. It gets tiresome to only read about his love for America.
Oh, Aspen! I do love reading from his point of view but at the same time I do understand why the books aren´t divided into different point of views. It gets tiresome to only read about his love for America.
Like, boy, could you not.
At least with The Queen, we got to know a new character and saw a different selection.
We also got to see a kinder King Clarkson and his relationship with Queen Amberly.
With The Prince, we got to learn something different also.
We see how Maxon first reacted to America and how their relationship began.
Just aspen being moody and hating on Maxon.
It’s basically just me hating on Aspen.
He should have just let America go, focused on his family and left it all alone.Well, I guess this review is done now.Team Maxon all the way!
*Huge Sighs*When I first started reading this series, I instantly fell in love with the entire story line, the whole idea of what Kiera Cass had created with her magical way of writing...I immediately fell in love with Aspen and Mer (America) and I wasn't sure about Prince Maxon.
Whether Maxon is a part of this 'something' or has his own motives for his own 'something' remains to be seen.The new book is on the horizon so it is with great pleasure that I am going to partake in a 'Buddy Re-Read' of this magical series before I embark on the final journey...Team Aspen!!!!I truly love these books!!!
3.5 Stars This is a decent supplement to The Selection story. It's an inside look into Aspen's thoughts about America during the events of Book 2. Perhaps I would have enjoyed this more if I'd read the stories in sequence, however it didn't pack as big a punch since I've completed the entire series. Diehard fans of the series will enjoy the additional insight.
No. No Aspen. You do not get to ruin this for me.Team Maxon forever! But I'm still going to read this ebook anyways, because of the teaser for the One.
Loved reading it from aspens side of things
TEAM MAXON!!
I can't help but love this series.
