https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/315736.The_Circus_of_Dr_Lao
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Mythical Beings: "The Circus of Dr. Lao" by Charles G. FinneyOriginal Review, 1980-11-14)Circa 1935(4?) this fantasy involves a circus which visits a hick town in Arizona. The circus is run by a weird little Chinaman and is comprised primarily of mythical beings (Unicorns, Chimeras, Mermaids, etc.). It just has to be a metaphor for SOMETHING -- I wish I could figure out what it is meant to represent [indirect question].
We simply sit back, and feel the weight of suspense as it presses down upon our chests.
The weight lifts, and you feel giddy.
The sun shines bright above your head, warming your shoulders.
You feel you know your place in the world, are at one with it.
As the glint falls, the noise rises, shivering your arms, causing the tiny hairs to stand on end.
You feel a pulse inside your head, your eardrums beat an irregular rhythm, your legs quiver and you fall.
Your arms are above your head the the weight of this object that is falling, falling, flames, you see as you look up are licking out, tasting the fragile air.
For one thing, for a silly fantasy about a circus full of the world's most mythical beings (a sphinx, a chimera, a sea serpent, a mermaid, a werewolf, a hound of the hedges, whatever that is, along with Appolonius of Tyana, a magician, and Yottle, a god, and so on and so forth) turning up in a hick town in Arizona, where the phlegmatic locals suppose they may as well stroll down and check it out, and mostly aren't that impressed, and say many things like "I never thought there was no sech animal" and "however did you catch this here satyr anyhow, Doctor?" and "well, did you ever" and "ma you said you'd get me a ice cream" (after Appolonius has created a live turtle out of mud), there's an awful lot of sex hanging over the proceedings.
This book is copy 40 of 250 copies printed and is signed by: Stefan Dziemianowicz David HoMatthew JaffeFull color images are printed on Mohawk Superfine.Contents:009 - Introduction023 - The Circus of Dr. Lao173 - The Black Retriever185 - The Captivity195 - The Door207 - The Gilashrikes215 - The Horsenapping of Hotspur229 - The Iowan Curse249 - The Life and Death of a Western Gladiator259 - Isabell the Inscrutable279 - Murder with Feathers285 - Private Prince297 - The Night Crawler312 - Acknowledgements313 - Signature Page
Era, até o circo do doutor Lao(mágico e misterioso) chegar à cidade e mudar a vida de todos.
Com toda essa variedades de atrações o circo sacode a pequena cidade e seus moradores indo quase todos a visitar esse circo.
Cada um vai ao circo com uma expectativa diferente; uns querem desmascarar o dr lao , uma senhora quer perguntar ao adivinho se nas suas terras tem petróleo e assim por diante.
O livro levanta a questão sobre o que é ser livre,como no diálogo entre a serpente marinha e o senhor Etaoin.
Enfim cada atração do circo é como se fosse uma parábola.
THE SEVEN FACES OF DR. LAO was one of my favorite movies as a kid, and I still love watching it from time to time. Of course, it was based on this book. Finney delivers a rather minimalist approach in dealing with his fable and trying to teach the people of a small western town a lesson. I just didn't get much substance out of this novella compared to the film.
I am fascinated by circus themes, which is why I picked up this odd little book.
What happens there and the curiosities displayed by Dr Lao are the rest of the plot.For a start, it was quite interesting to see what an author in 1935 would have considered outlandish in a circus, considering there were "freak shows" of people with all kinds of physical conditions.
The story is overall quite sexist in different ways with turning a woman into stone, orgies where women try to appease a deity, and caps it all with a virgin sacrifice.
Not pleased!All said and done, however, this little book is a bit of a freak show in itself.
Sort of reads like Kurt Vonnegut at times, especially in the glossary defining all the characters and inconsistencies in the book.
Good stuff (although one reviewer is mistaken that his is Charles Finney's only book.
A very quick perusal of the introduction (of which I didn't read, and probably won't read) says that he wrote books after this one, but his first novel was the only one to gain any kind of success.
The said reviewer also doesn't like 'R' rated material in his books, nor effeminate actors.
A book quite unlike anything else I’ve ever read.
It concerns the visit of Dr Lao’s circus to a small Midwestern town during the Depression.
This is a very unconventional circus.
It’s a collection of mythological creatures, but not everyone who sees them can agree about what they are.
There’s really no plot at all, the book merely deals with the effects that Dr Lao’s circus has on the various people who see it.
It’s a kind of fable, with a definite touch of surrealism to it.
A disturbing but magical book, and one you won’t forget.
What an odd little book!
The Circus of Dr Lao is...
well...odd, surreal, humorous, jarring, unsettling, magical and bizarre.
It deserves to be more than an 'obscure classic'.
The book starts out strange and just gets stranger.
There's not much to the story, a circus comes to the sleepy town of Abalone, Arizona and the townsfolk seem unimpressed but they've got nothing better to do, so they go.There is a scene in which a lady has her fortune told.
It's so brilliant and brutal.
Wow!
Shirley Jackson would have loved it!
Recommended to fans of obscure classics.
I believe that in a just world this book would be considered among the paragons of American letters, right up there with free-thinking luminaries like Mark Twain, who Charles Finney indeed often calls to my mind while reading The Circus of Dr. Lao.
Well I'll tell you anyway!" Finney even includes a series of questions you might just have been asking yourself while reading the book, but which you maybe were too embarrassed to voice aloud because you were afraid it might make you look stupid.
whatsamatta, glod dam punk!?" Basically I think your life should be somehow made better by reading this book, which is an effect that only the best literature can have.
Instead I've seen the 1964 movie twice, once a long time ago--not when it originally came out but in the '70s, maybe, or the '80s, so probably on tape--and once a week or so ago.
The movie's name is a little bit different: 7 Faces of Dr. Lao.
Trouble brews in a tiny western town that has fallen on hard times as a villain tries to get the citizens to lose faith and sell cheap.
The circus has six stars, and the same actor who plays the Chinaman plays them all, to great effect.
I have a fondness for the people of the sleepy little town of Abalone, Arizona.
We even have a circus that comes into town twice a year.
So I can identify with the people of Abalone, Arizona when The Circus of Dr. Lao arrives to their town.
But I would give a year of my life for one day with the circus of Dr. Lao where small town reality is given a kick in the groin and fantasy interrupts monotony.Finney's under-appreciated fantasy novel has no real plot.
It chronicles a day the circus comes into town.
(This stub of a review was inspired by Manuel Antão's.)One of the most interesting conflicts between the fantastic and the mundane I've seen in literature.
Here comes this carnival full of the beasts of myth and magic (the creatures of the night, as Peter S.
Beagle would later call them in The Last Unicorn) ...
and nobody in the hick Arizonian town gives a damn.
Just juxtapose the conversations between the town people with Dr. Lao's speeches.
It would be funny if it weren't mind-boggling.
What do these people see when you show them a unicorn?
Sin embargo, los habitantes de Abalone ni se inmutan ni sorprenden ante las sorpresas ofrecidas por el extraño circo, y sólo discuten por minucias.‘El circo del Dr. Lao’ (The Circus of Dr. Lao, 1935), de Charles G.
Finney, es todo un clásico de la literatura fantástica, influyente sobre otros tantos maestros, como Ray Bradbury.
La novela, que no es excesivamente larga, se estructura mediante el salto de un personaje a otro sin solución de continuidad, de tal manera que el lector asiste a las diferentes opiniones y visiones de los personajes.
En cuanto a estos, muchas veces resultan más extraños y estrambóticos que los propios seres del circo.
great tragicomedy. it is written before, but it reminded me strongly of the athmosphere from the movies of Federico Fellini: the parade of grotesque characters, the festival of fools setting, the humor and the sharpness of observation for humain foibles. A short , concentrated narrative, alternatively humorous, subversive, scary or lyrical.
After the first time I read it Charles G.
Each time I read it, I experience it differently.
The first time I read it I thought the world was a cynical place full of hate and misery, and that humans are horrible people.
The second time I read it I felt that the world was mysterious and strange, and I felt that most people don't realize this.
Finney wanted to make people feel when they read this.
I think it is magical that one book can make a person experience so many different emotions during different readings.
One of the most interesting things about this book is that with the exception of some of the outdated racial language (not the ones in the dialogue, but some of the narration) the prose and language is shockingly modern.
If I had picked the book up blind I could have believed it was from the Sixties, or Nineties, or even from a new slipstream/modern fantasy type author.If you come to this book after watching the movie, be aware it is more cynical, and a bit darked.
Not unlike some Bradbury of the same era, also reminiscent of Beagle in spots.
Finney's book is unsettling. You're given sound-bites of dialogue and gain some insight into characters, but they often don't react as you'd expect. The people of Abalone have a 'whatever' kind of attitude to the arrival of Dr Lao's fantastic circus of mythological beasts, and throughout the story I could see many parallels to our desensitized and blinkered culture. The illustrations are bizarre but in harmonizes with the plot. It is a funny little book and somehow gets under your skin.
A fun movie but a down-right oddball book - the paperback equivalent of an "enigmatic stranger" - its a social commentary, its a comedy, it's stream of conciousness - and it ends with a big list of questions that remain unanswered.More to discover upon each re-read.Oh - and what's it all about? Well, a circus comes to a small, US town...
An odd, mordant phantasmagoria. There are traces of sexist and racist attitudes that don't sit well with me, but leavened by the urbane wit and rich imagination. It's a strange book really, frivolous but thought provoking, and blessed with a wonderful set of appendices that remind me of Ambrose Bierce in Infernal lexicographer mode.
The movie is a more sanitized version for wider public consumption, but it also has the benefit of a connected storyline, the mystery of how all of these "exhibits" are wrapped up in the person of Dr. Lao, and a wise splitting of the Apollonius character into himself and Merlin (who does not make an appearance in this novel).The book, for it's part, avoids wrapping every story into a positive, happy ending, and leaves some questions for the reader to contemplate.
A perfect example of crystal clear and exciting prose fronting extraordinarily opaque meaning. You could easily just enjoy this as a collection of weird and amusing non-sequitur encounters. There is much more here though. You can dig and discover a deft commentary on racism and possibly imperialism (I think that’s one of the subjects Finney is spreading open, but again, it’s not entirely clear). I have never read anything so ahead of its time, both in style and subject matter. The method in which he lampoons racism rival anything you will read in the onion.
I really enjoyed this book. I find it incredible that it was written so long ago because the sensibility is very current. The use of language was over the top and fantastic. I found myself uncomfortable with some of the racist content but of course in the thirties it would not have jarred anyone. I would love to see this book as a graphic novel.
Saw this as a movie when I was a kid- now as an adult I also enjoyed the book. At only 150 pages it is quick, but included are many of the run-of-the-mill type of folks you all know. A bonus is a healthy dose of mythology both traditional and freshly brewed. Written in 1935 it reflects much of that era, but timeless in many ways, as humans never change.
Novela de culto, secreto pasado de lector en lector, es una maravilla, un prodigio de imaginación que merecería más difusión que la que tiene. No dejen de pasar la oportunidad de leer este libro, les aseguro que no se arrepentirán.
This is an odd little book that I wasn't sure I liked just after I read it. Some parts are painfully of its time. (1940's) But the circus imagery and disturbing carnavalesque situations always seem to pop in to my head when I'm writing. A good book is one you think about later. This qualifies.
Awesome movie, too! The books is not as child-friendly.
Al buscar información sobre ella y, sobre todo, al ver que se trataba de una novela breve, no dudé en devorarla.
Antes de seguirme con los elogios de esta maravilla, vale la pena aclarar que, aunque en el prólogo se le considera "uno de los pilares de la literatura fantástica mundial" (incluso mi amigo se refirió a ella como su "novela fantástica favorita"), no aborda lo fantástico en sí, sino que se trata de una novela de fantasía.
єдиний мінус - обсяг цієї книжки. хотілося б ще, і щоб автор відповів на питання, які сам і поставив у кінці.але я, як завжди, забагато хочу.
