https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/90591.The_Favorite_Game
Or, I don't know, maybe all boys are, or maybe it's a Canadian thing.But in Leonard Cohen fashion, parts of his story are really beautiful.
Not when he's using Breavman to talk about women being his property, certainly; but Cohen is a poet, and his poetry comes across even in his prose.I understand from the never-wrong Wikipedia that Cohen's story was actually much longer than what it turned out to be because a lot of it got chopped.
I also wish Cohen had spent similar amounts of energy on Breavman and the other characters.
Leonard Cohen, like the artist at various times known as Prince, likes to fuse God and sex together, so that for him shagging is like Communion is for Catholics, and he shares this view with crazy cult leaders and holy lechers throughout history, as can be seen in songs like Hallelujah (check out what that holy dove is up to), Dance Me to the End of Love (one of my top favourites) and his other - wilder - weirder - better - far more disgusting - novel Beautiful Losers.In this first novel he gives us a portrait of the artist as a young slightly bohemian bore, mooching and yearning his way around Montreal.
Kada spava, svaki covek je samo dete!Iskreno, nisam nikad bila fan Koena ali me je zainteresovalo da procitam njegov prvi roman i moram priznati da sam se prijatno iznenadila. Pise na jako dopadljiv nacin, ima lepe opise i drzi paznju do samog kraja.
Magic Bus!!
‘A single sperm is one thousand times smaller than this [.].’ The characters in this book don’t come to life easily, it is as if they have a soul but it is just half alive and thus do not jump off the page.
At the time of writing The Favourite Game, Cohen was 28 or 29, however his recall of the frustrations experienced by many adolescent boys that girls their own age develop faster and thus prefer to date older males appears very fresh.
It is clear that the body has held high significance for Cohen throughout his life and writings.
"Shell was genuinely fond of him. She had to resort to that expression when she examined her feelings. That sickened her because she did not wish to dedicate her life to a fondness. This was not the kind of quiet she wanted. The elegance of a dancing couple was remarkable only because the grace evolved from a sweet struggle of flesh. Otherwise it was puppetry, hideous. She began to understand peace as an aftermath." Out of print, bitches. Find your own copy.
This book is the reason why I give less than five stars to so many others.Exquisitely written, it allows the reader an insight into the life experiences of a brutally self-involved person.
The central character Breavman lives in a world of his own creation, a world of "expectation".
He lurches from one whim to the next and in the process leaves a trail of relationship debris, about which he cares little.In the sheer genius of his style, Cohen redeems his protagonist from his life of arrogance and loneliness in one acute paragraph.
"Omiljena igra" je jedan od najtužnijih romana ikada napisanih.
Nedohvatljivost koja se ima dovršiti jednom u vječnoj kontemplaciji Zlatne Vječnosti, u naručju iz kojega smo iskoračili na ovu Zemlju."Omiljena igra" je roman koji je predivno čitati sam u svojoj malenoj studentskoj sobi, roman koji je predivno čitati u jesen pokriven dekom u svojem krevetu dok vjetar na prozore lijepi otpalo lišće koje izgleda poput raskvašenih žitnih pahuljica, roman koji je predivno čitati u bilo kojem od kafića gdje smo tražili (i još tražimo) smisao života uz šalicu kave, roman koji se može čitati na obali rijeke dok ljetno sunce na zalasku blagoslivlja grad...Roman o samoći koji se čita u samoći.
Novel coming of age semi-otobiografinya. Novel yg ditulis Cohen di pertengahan akhir 20, soal masa remajanya di Montreal. Saya pikir, akan lebih baik kalau Cohen menggunakan si Lawrence Breavman dalam sudut pandang pertama. Saya menyukai pasase jurnal Breavman, lebih personal kalau Cohen melakukannya di seluruh novel. Kisah novel ini berpusat pada seorang remaja Yahudi kelas menengah, yang bereksperimen soal hipnotis dan cinta, atau seks.
] He was intoxicated with relief, achievement, guilt, experience.” From that point on, Breavman’s sexual obsession with women becomes more profound and - for me - more exhausting.He begins a relationship with Tamara, who becomes his “mistress” for three years until he turns twenty.
At one point he leaves Tamara after she falls asleep: “Her body was with him and he let a vision of it argue against his flight.
Shell.” In the third part of the book sexual desire does not abate but it does (finally) deepen, intertwining itself with beauty and spirituality.
I wanted to review this.
I wanted to underline so many passages but it's a library book.
I wanted to devour and savour it at the same time, I wanted to review it but everything I say sounds like a slam poem.
Glorious, drowsy summertime prose and witty one liners, this book epitomises everything Leonard Cohen has ever meant to me.
The Future was the soundtrack to my childhood.
Later, drinking red wine on the couch late at night with my dad talking literature listening to hallelujah obnoxiously loudly over the speakers.
This book felt so very familiar, and I missed it when it wasn't by my side.
—I suspect by now that I’ve read Cohen’s two novels - which is to say zilch about his poesy, which, yes, read read etc, prosody much delightful all said - the profond’ and centrally trois-dimensionnel’ Surrealist tour guide, « Beautiful Losers » which for the very sake of preservation of noötropic & psycho-spiritual finement, which I should at all events like to make use of in these preliminary exercises, by which, you understand, any such presumable purport of actual & believable strate

Lawrence Breavman, you are, in actuality, a misogynist, a user and a taker and your ultimate fate is briefly noted within the same grey colored future as you left your mother and deserted your friend and lovers.I have no real summary review of this book - what it does is remind me again of the wisdom of Shakyamuni in the Upajjhatthana Sutta:"'I am subject to aging, have not gone beyond aging.'"'I am subject to illness, have not gone beyond illness.' ..."'I am subject to death, have not gone beyond death.' ..."'I will grow different, separate from all that is dear and appealing to me.' ..."'I am the owner of my actions,[1] heir to my actions, born of my actions, related through my actions, and have my actions as my arbitrator.
Breavman by all normal reasons is not the most likeable character; he is selfish, uses people for his own ideals and stuck in his own adolescent immaturity and naivety.
It is also the moment when this pure invidivual is killed off (and thus in Breavman's mind rejected by the normal world) that he realises once and for all that he would rather be a world observer, occassionally disturbing the waters surface, than play a part in a world so removed from his own ideals.
intendiamoci, quella che fa leonard cohen non è narrativa: è poesia, e come ogni poeta cohen, tramite il suo quasi doppio lawrence breavman, cerca la bellezza ovunque, nell'amicizia, nei momenti che fissano per sempre nella memoria l'adolescenza, nelle donne, nella loro bellezza e nel loro mistero, nella musica, nella divina follia dei giochi di un bambino autistico, in quello che lo circonda e -in definitiva- anche in tutto il resto.
no, ha dei momenti che ti annoiano a morte e delle volte vorresti che cohen/breavman si spostasse e ti lasciasse vedere il resto della storia: ma è il prezzo da pagare per quelle pagine in cui la poesia ti travolge.
Cohen seems to write prose the same way he would write poetry, but without pressing Enter at the end of a line.
The only problem with this work is that the last 30 pages or so seem to be very hastily written - I haven't felt like a conclusion had been drawn, but I also didn't feel like a full open end was before me.
Maybe that was the author's desire, but as a reader I felt the last pages lacked in the same gravity as the rest of the book.
This book is imperfect.
Immature.
It's a misogynist screed in search of the novel within it.
At times, the book utterly infuriated me.
(At many times, actually.) Most of the time, it turned me on in a guilty sort of way.
I don't like the feeling of arousal during my morning commute, and I never lusted for the narrator.
If anything, I yearned to smack his face.But, ultimately, I really like this little scrap of early Leonard Cohen.
It brought me as close to my own mother's experience of growing up Jewish in Montreal as I can ever hope to get.
I tired to read this book for a second time and again I couldn't make it past the first 10 pages.
Leonard Cohen is one of my top 5 favorite music list, but I don't like his prose at all.All of the literature in the James Joyce style of "steam of consciousness" or whatever you call it...
when the text tries to confuse you...
no, it doesn't cut it with me.
Though I can't say Cohen's text in this book was incoherent...
you just get the feeling immediately that it's more about the writer than about telling a story the reader will be enriched by.
Ok, I only got halfway through this so maybe it's a bit unfair to give it a one-star rating, but I couldn't sustain my interest in this book. It's a good job he took up music in my opinion - a three minute drone is pleasant enough, but over a hundred pages of it palls horribly. Sincerely B. Baker
longest read ever of a short book. The Globe and Mail compared it to Catcher in the Rye. I think not.
Some pretty incredible imagery and language unfortunately mired by misogyny in what is essentially a young man's coming of age story established around an enumeration of his sexual conquests.
I respect Leonard Cohen but I was so bored with this book and felt it lacked a plot. Didn't help that the protagonist was extremely unlikable.
It's the crapshoot of prose written by a poet: parts break your heart, other parts fail to keep your attention.
E' stata una lettura strana, altalenante, che all'inizio non era riuscita a coinvolgermi e a prendermi, ma che non ha mai smesso di incuriosirmi, nella particolare impaginazione, nei pensieri del protagonista che venivano citati come fossero poesie, negli estratti di canzoni.
Non credo di essere riuscita a comprendere pienamente Lawrence Breavman, il protagonista, come pure ho come il timore che lo stesso romanzo mi sfugga nella sua essenza.
Senza parole, alla fine della lettura, con la sensazione che ne sia valsa la pena di scoprire qualcosa di nuovo sul cantautore.E' un romanzo che non si riesce a raccontare, ma che va vissuto, pagina dopo pagina, scena dopo scena.
This is the coming of age story of Lawrence Breavman, the son of bourgeois parents from Westmount. Lawrence struggles to find his way between the women in his life and his poetry. As I read the book, I could see from the lyrical descriptions of the city of Montreal the deep love he felt for the place he called home.
It grows on you as you read it and as the character(s) mature so does the writing (to which an adult can relate more), but still you can see Cohen's poetry and unique vision in between the line and in some phrases that could might well be verses on one of his songs. The sensitivity and humanity and sorely missed!...
3.5 🌟"Copiii isi arata cicatricile ca pe niste decoratii. Indragostitii le folosesc drept secrete de impartasit. O ciatrice e ceea ce se intampla atunci cand cuvantul devine trup. E usor sa te lauzi cu o rana, urma eroica din lupta. Mai greu este sa iti arati cosurile de pe fata""Nu intalnim prea des pe cineva care ne impartaseste propria viziune despre ce am putea sa fim".

How Cohen saves himself is that in this work, his main character is not only voyeur, he's also the ultimate solipsist- regarding only himself as having any real agency.
And in doing so, it's the characters surrounding Lawrence Breavman (yes, Cohen) that end up feeling like real people.
Breavman's dialogue is so abstracted that it doesn't feel like he could be a real person.
So, of course his novels come out like this.Cohen acknowledges that this solipsism affects those around Breavman, but the character keeps falling back into it, unable to break the cycle of thinking he's had since he was a child.

"She went to sleep and he opened his eyes in the black and his room was never emptier or a woman further away.
He listened to her breathing.
It was like the delicate engine of some cruel machine spreading distance after distance between them.
Her sleep was the final withdrawal, more perfect than anything she could say or do.
She slept with a deeper grace than that with which she moved."~~~~~~~"Here is my poem for you.I don’t know you, Anne.I don’t know you, Anne.I don’t know you, Anne."~~~~~~~I have a feeling that I might like Cohen's prose better than his poetry.
Cohen's prose is generous yet contained, and so exquisitely evocative and sensual that reading The Favourite Game in a short period of time, as I did, in just over five hours, begins to feel much like the hours-long embrace of passionate young lovers, punctuated by fevered outbursts of raw sexuality.
Putting the book down, at its end, feels like one last tight hug and tender kiss at a door, before the young lovers lose one another for an unthinkable, no matter how short, time.
While Cohen and Breavman may share several details of their lives, it's just not very useful to concentrate on such things while talking about this novel.
This could get a little gushy...Being a huge fan of Leonard Cohen, imagine my joy when Jade found this book at the library.
Like his songs, this is full of many wonderful lines that reach out and grab you with a power that, for me, few others can match ("Seven to eleven is a huge chunk of life, full of dulling and forgetting [...:] As our eyes grow accustomed to sight they armour themselves against wonder.") This is immensely readable and highly recommended, especially if you're a fan of his fabulous songs.
A novel of dialogue and memory in which a young man tells his lover about his experiences growing up in Montreal.
Some of those experiences seem embarrassingly intimate, and even if the young man does not tell his lover about them, the third person narrator describes them for us, the readers.
The technique of the first part of the book is particularly reminiscent of the early pages of Joyce’s Portrait: the narrator does not represent the cause and effect links between events but employs a fragmented form and vivid imagery to reproduce dialogues and the protagonist’s memories.
But as it progresses he gets more showy in a way that isn't as effective, and so much of it feels like pretention and showing off.
If an author tries something showy and succeeds, then you just think of it as a good passage, not as something ostentatious.
Not because it's not good, but because there are a lot of novels like this and few enter any kind of canon (even one as desperate to bestow canonization as the Canadian canon).
Lawrence Breavman is a student, a lover, a seeker.
But mostly Lawrence Breavman is just really fucking intense.The novel unfolds in discrete imagistic scenes.
(Women exist throughout primarily as receptacles, sometimes unwitting sometimes complicit, of beauty.)Noteworthy for me: the language, the familiar settings (80% of the novel's set around Montreal or Columbia!), and of course the famous author -- the facts of Breavman's life (Montreal, Jew, absent mother, McGill, poet/musician, Columbia) are uh somewhat reminiscent of a certain L.C. I often felt myself hoping that it wasn't as autobiographical as it seemed, since Breavman is -- like most intense, brooding lovers -- a bit of an asshole.
Just think - if it wasn't for that grant and for Cohen's innovative writing, we'd be living in a world without Hallelujah, Tower of Song and a whole host of other Cohen classics.For me, The Favourite Game stands out from Cohen's other works because of the strong characterisation and the way in which Lawrence Breavman so accurately reflects the young author's own struggle for love, success and excitement.
"One day what he did to her would enter his understanding with such a smash of guilt that he would sit motionless for days, until others carried him and medical machines brought him back to speech.
But that was not today."And that was not this novel.
It was a story of hurt and carelessness.
Breavman stomped from Montreal to New York to the Laurentians with no considerations for the women he was using and with a determination to sever all of his ties with the things he loved, desperate to disconnect.
There is a an horrible chapter in which the alter-ego protagonist hypnotizes a woman and takes advantages of her sexually and it really put me off.

According to the Afterword in the paperback edition I read by Paul Quarrington, there is some autobiography, but also lots of fiction.I like the fact that the novel is about a search on the part of Lawrence Breavman as a young man for his own truth and his place in the world.
I love the summer camp part - having been to summer camp often it evokes memories.Glad I read this first novel of Leonard Cohen.
Jeg tror den får en stor del af sin værdi ud fra det kendskab, jeg har til den senere Cohens tekstunivers.
Hvis jeg ser på den alene er det en slags beat-bog og en dannelsesroman med fokus på kroppen.
Hovedpersonen er ikke specielt sympatisk, og det tror jeg er meningen (den skulle jo være delvist selvbiografisk).
Vi vil alle sammen gerne være mystikere, der bor i stråtækte hytter, men alligevel boller tit."Jeg foretrækker nok Cohens senere lyriske univers hvor han mestrer det nedtonede, tvetydige.
Jeg tror det er ham der engang har sagt, at en sang skal have plads mellem linierne.
ho fatto fatica a leggerlo.
e non ho capito perché fin quasi alla fine: mi piaceva, era intenso e pensieroso, problematico come piace a me.
per leggerlo veramente ci vuole la concentrazione di dieci pagine in ogni riga, e io così faccio fatica.come dopo aver letto troppo coupland, mi sono convinto che c'è qualcosa di malinconico, nel canada.
un paese troppo grande per avere un'unica anima, con le città troppo concentrate intorno a centri storici ombelicali, riferiti a un'europa che non c'è più, con la fatica perenne di non sembrare americani, e un legame ombelicale alla matrigna europa.
"Overall a nice read"Hectic work commitment and schedule had pulled me away from enjoying a work of fiction for quite a long while.
The Favourite Game was a great re-introduction to reading, my long time passion.
It had become a coming of age story following the common journey of sexual exploration by the main character with indeterminate personality.
Just when I was about to be disappointed, bringing to the forefront of my mind the negative reviews I read before, the story has thankfully transformed itself once again.
A much more gripping story until the end.
It was overall a nice read.
I was glad that I came across this nice work.
I understand this was the second of Leonard Cohen's pre fame(well at the level he would be known) an
It was so obnoxious.
I picked it up because I am looking for novels set in Montreal, and I thought, hey, Leonard Cohen wrote a novel?
I like Leonard Cohen.
I had to remind myself a lot that I like Leonard Cohen.
Pretty much the whole book I was thinking I hated Leonard Cohen, and then reminding myself that he was in his 20s, he was so young, he decided to concentrate on music, he made the right decision.
And he is just so incredibly obnoxious.
In fact, now I'm wondering if Roth ripped off Cohen with Portnoy's Complaint and no one noticed because Americans don't read Canadian novels.
Read this over the holiday weekend, which was good as I think it would have been a bit of a struggle without some dedicated time to allow me to keep the story alive. Not an easy read, about not very likeable characters. I was intrigued by the dust cover which described it as one of the 10 best Canadian novels of the 21st century...what are the other 9...
