https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/358334.Mimosa
However, her father changes his mind and takes Mimosa away.For twenty two years, Star lives and learns and teaches at Dohnavur.
Yet, Mimosa too has become a Christian and lives her life day by day in a way that honors the one true God. Mimosa hears and treasures the words of encouragement written to her by her sister, but never writes back because she cannot write.
She clings to Him as he faithfully hears her prayers, and comforts and teaches her in the ways of God's truth.Twenty two years later, Mimosa arrives at Dohnavur with her own son to leave there to be educated.
The reason for reading this book is the author, Amy Carmichael.
Amy Carmichael was an Irish protestant missionary who worked near to my native place in Tamil Nadu for many years.
Recently I got hold of few of the books, thanks to the reprints.About this book: This is a real story of a Hindu girl who stood firm in her Christian faith in spite of the many hardships that she had to undergo for going against one's custom/caste/religion/beliefs.
This cultural barrier and the fear of being an outcast in one's own place and among one's own people is well documented in this book.
I could not stop reading because I wanted to see where God would meet Mimosa next or how He would take care of her.
I agree that the style of writing could be cumbersome at times and hard to follow when Miss Carmichael was waxing eloquent.
I can totally forgive her for that though, considering her excitement for the story she was relaying and that she was writing in the style of her time period.
But whenever she was telling Mimosa's story of following God, it was hard for me to put the book down.
One of the most powerful non-fiction stories I have ever read, very moving and compelling testimony of the transforming love and power of God.
And yet God in His love drew this sister, who had never heard any more than that there was a God who loved her, to a sweet and beautiful relationship with Him that puts to shame the faith of many Christians with much more access to and knowledge of the truth.My only small trouble with the story (likely a result of the style of Mimosa's own narrative) was that it was hard to get a feel for the timing within and between the different stories.
Praise God for His faithfulness!The style can be a bit flowery at times, but the story has a beauty that the best words in the world couldn't do justice to.
Incredible story of how much God can do with our "widow's mite".
No matter the size of the seed that is sown, God is gonna do what He wants to do, not what we think is possible.And Mimosa!
What an incredible witness of faith and boldness through trials unimaginable to us in our comfy, modern America.
Her God-given faith is just...
wow.My only complaint, I'd say, is more of a publishing thing: I don't love the pulling out of quotes and "framing" them in story settings.
It can work in teaching-style books.
I first read this little book several years ago, and the thought of this woman’s story has stayed with me. It is still just as moving the second time, a reminder of the faithfulness of God.
In the brief time she was there, she heard about a God who is a loving Father: that knowledge changed her life.
For years she held to that truth, praying to the God she had heard of, recognizing that all that He did was good even through great hardship, and trusting Him to provide her needs.
Her knowledge was extremely limited--she didn't even know of Christ and the cross--but God's love kept her and brought her after many years back to Dohnavor.
This is an amazing story; it is greatly encouraging to see God's extreme love in action.
This book is great! It's a true story about an Indian woman, who didn't know Christ at all and didn't had the chance to read or to be taught out of the Bible and had no education (she couldn't even read or write). She only knew that there is a God who loves her. She felt His presence and gave up the gods she had and went through very taugh situations. She was persecuted and had to raise up 4 children alone in a very harsh situation...poverty, sickness, loneliness...but even through all these, the Lord taught and cared for her.
I needed to hear the encouraging message that runs through the book...that Jesus is real and oh so personal. He will take care of all my needs and I need not tell a soul.Pg. 135 Mimosa sold her brass vessels, an Indian woman's most precious necessities. They had been her father's gift to her, part of her dowry, and she could never buy such again. Hereafter she must use cheap earthen pots.This passage touched me deeply because I too sold my precious necessities to come to Honduras to do the Lord's work.
This is a short biography, written by Amy Carmichael, about a Tamil Indian woman named Mimosa and her life as a Christ-follower after a very brief encounter with the living God. Mimosa's enduring faith in the face of enormous opposition is a powerful testimony to the workings of the Holy Spirit. In the life of a woman with no spiritual education, training, or even scriptural knowledge, God is still faithful to his children.
Although Amy Charmichael's writing style is archaic, the beauty of this true story still rings true today. This little book was such an encouragement to me. Who would think that an uneducated, outcast, impoverished Indian woman from 100 years ago would be able to minister to me? What an amazing legacy of faith!
Nice, quick read. Encouraging story of an Indian woman pursued by God even when she didn't understand it. She couldn't read and wasn't exposed to scripture until years after she encountered Christ. It Is a great reminder to those in ministry that He does the work and we get to be involved. He is not dependent on us but invites us to be a part.
The language in this, after all of my light reading of late, made this a more challenging read for me. It's an amazing story, but at times I had trouble following it. It's a short book, and I think I made it more difficult to read then it should have been?
This was a most amazing story of living the light you have received. An Indian woman who had very little knowledge of God and the Bible was so profoundly moved to follow God with perfect faith that it puts those of us with the entire Bible at our fingertips to shame.
June book club choiceDelightful peek at the hard overcomer's life of an Indian woman and how God met her right where she was without any education [no ability to read:], fellowship, or church training.
True story about a woman from India. I learned from this book that God can take one moment in a persons life to change the course of that life and future generations. And, that His Holy Spirit does teach and lead when there is no other teacher.
This was a beautiful story of an Indian girl who goes against her in-bred Hindu beliefs to seek Jesus Christ.It is a story of suffering and her strength to find great courage to stand up for what she believes in despite much opposition from her family and Hindu community.
I read this many years ago but had forgotten all of it except the trust in God that this child, then woman, had. I am so glad to read it again! It is an amazing true story of faith and of God's care for even one lone person.
Profoundly moving book about pure faith, but warning - it is difficult to read, due to the prose and author's story telling style. If one can get though it, it's a charming little book that really illustrates blind faith. Fascinating
This is Amy Carmichael's true account of a young Indian woman who came to hear of Christ. Mimosa became a believer in Christ and endured years of opposition from her family and caste. A remarkable tale of how God can sustain one's faith in the most difficult of circumstances.
this book is amazing
This is a fascinating account of a young Indian woman who becomes a Christian in the 1930s. Filled with the sort of details I haven't read anywhere else. It was a tough life.
A very interesting story, but the telling seemed to lack vibrancy.
I was greatly touched by this true story. I hope more people share these kind of stories. Allow more people to learn of God's love for all his people even in times of hardship.
Awesome story of God's revelation of Himself.
Very hard book to read. I forced myself to finish it. The ending was very good and I am sure the story is amazing but the writing was difficult to understand
This is an interesting true story. Most interesting is how the Spirit leads Mimosa, who has no Bible, into truth even though she has had only a few minutes instruction about God.
What an awesome story of God's faithfulness to the smallest response to His love. God himself taught, guided and preserved Mimosa.
Amazing story about the power of God to hold His children firmly in His hand! I gave away my copy, but I need to get another!
