https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/781787.Out_of_Africa
”Up in this air you breathed easily, drawing in a vital assurance and lightness of heart. In the highlands you woke up in the morning and thought: Here I am, where I ought to be.”  Karen Blixen in 1913. Her whole life was before her.When Karen Blixen married her second cousin Baron Bror Blixen-Finecke in 1914 and followed along as a devoted wife should to help him run a coffee plantation in Kenya, I’m sure she had an idea of what her life was to be, but the story of our lives generally deviates
I had been on the farm longing to get away, and they came back to it longing for books and linen sheets, and the cool atmosphere in a big shuttered room.” I can imagine the thrill that they must have felt when they first spotted the red roof of her house and knew that they were about to step out of Africa and back into Europe for an evening of discourse, food, and wine.
By the way, I’ve just returned from an expedition to a coffee plantation circa 1925 in Kenya where I drank wine with Baroness Blixen, listened to the lions roar, and luxuriated in the stillness that follows on the heels of such a proclamation of dominance.
When I read Karen Blixen’s stories, her biography, her letters, and now - finally - after a ten year long odyssey of reading other books - her Out Of Africa, something touches me deep inside, and I feel her happiness, sadness, excitement, boredom and disappointment almost physically.
It is not the freedom of the dictator, who enforces his own will on the world, but the freedom of the artist, who has no will, who is free of will.”To me, it seems that Karen Blixen was a lucky woman, to be able to live according to her dreams for a long time, to enjoy great love, and to be able to sit down and write an opening line of unforgettable beauty:“I had a farm in Africa, at the foot of the Ngong Hills.”And I had a crush on Karen Blixen, at the shore of Rungstedlund...
A Nyack, villaggio venti km a Nord di Manhattan, contea di Rockland, a casa dell’amica e collega scrittrice Carson McCullers, fu ritratta in compagnia di Arthur Miller e Marilyn Monroe, che la Blixen teneva molto a conoscere.Ho fatto bene, perché è un libro stupendo, un puro intenso incanto dalla prima all’ultima pagina, e probabilmente dal primo all’ultimo rigo.Non solo Blixen scrive magnificamente e i suoi racconti sono meravigliosi, ma è ben lungi dai preconcetti tipici dei bianchi.
"I had a farm in Africa at the foot of the Ngong Hills".
After finishing the book I turned back to read this opening line again, and in this first sentence one can sense the pride that Blixen felt for this place, and one can also feel the sadness, the disappointment in the word "had", knowing that it slipped away from her at the end.
Losing her farm and also losing her beloved Denys Finch Hatton must have been devastating.This is one of those memoirs that is as compelling as good fiction.
Blixen's stories of African life, of the people, of the culture, of her life on the farm, and the extraordinary events she experienced far exceed what most of us will ever encounter.
One could get a feeling that this memoir focuses on Blixen's love affair with Africa as she describes her farm, the relationships she forged with both natives and Europeans, the Kenyan way of life, and the luscious scenery.
Out of Africa aptly check off the classic I put off reading square on my bingo card as this was a book that felt like one that I wanted to give up on throughout; yet, I managed to endure Blixen's stay on African soil.
“I had a farm in Africa at the foot of the Ngong Hills.” From its first sentence  Out of Africa captivated me. It was enchanting, old-fashioned, poignant, wistful and insightful.  Karen Blixen’s story of her life in Africa, a series of reminiscences from 1914 to 1931, portrays her love for that country – the people, the land, the animals. It has a fairy tale quality at times. Blixen is a master story-teller; it’s easy to understand why Denys Finch Hatton loved to hear her recount her stories. T
Karen Blixen’s story of her life in Africa, a series of reminiscences from 1914 to 1931, portrays her love for that country – the people, the land, the animals.
Nevertheless, the author's love of Africa and its people shines through.
But that Africa she tells us about is no more.With her coffee farm losing money, despite her desperate efforts to save it, her African adventure unravels at the end:
"It was not I who was going away, I did not have it in my power to leave Africa, but it was the country that was slowly and gravely withdrawing from me, like the sea in ebb-tide.
“I had a farm in Africa, at the foot of the Ngong Hills.” This very first line of Dinesen's memoir is like down Alice's rabbit hole; Platform Nine and three quarters, King's Cross or that cyclone that took Dorothy to Oz. Except this time, the world is a real one. Though not imaginary, it isn't lacking in adventures because of that and is unlike anything that modern city dwelling readers can know.  “It is a sad hardship and slavery to people who live in towns, that in their movements they know o
This very first line of Dinesen's memoir is like down Alice's rabbit hole; Platform Nine and three quarters, King's Cross or that cyclone that took Dorothy to Oz. Except this time, the world is a real one.
“It is a sad hardship and slavery to people who live in towns, that in their movements they know of one dimension only; they walk along the line as if they were led on a string.
And Dinesen is filled with love for everything she found in this world.
If I had had any courage, I would have done two things differently for my report: 1) I would have read a book about Africa written by someone who has a real respect for the land, not someone who writes of Africa as if it were an out of control child that needed to be brought in line, and compared the two.
2) I would have admitted to not liking the book (I thought that if I said I didn't like it, I would look stupid) instead of pretending to enjoy it.
My pretending totally sucked and it came off looking like I didn't read the book.
Really lovely - a living, breathing piece of history with writing that will make your heart sing. Of its time, certainly not "politically correct" with its colonial viewpoint, but nevertheless, the author's love of Africa and its people shines through. I felt as though I was sitting at Scheherazade's knee as she spun her 1001 tales. Dinesen/Blixen is a master story-teller - I can understand why Denys Finch Hatton loved to hear her tell her stories.Highly recommend.
Thankfully, Blixen challenges and refutes some of her own assumptions about Africa and Africans while acknowledging her inevitable cultural distance from those around her.
Would the air over the plain quiver with a colour that I had had on, or the children invent a game in which my name was, or the full moon throw a shadow over the gravel of the drive that was like me, or would the eagles of Ngong look out for me?Throughout the book, Blixen seems to want to be a part of this place in which she finds herself.
She tells of her struggles to make a coffee tree farm profitable in Kenya (17 years she lived there, 10 with a dissolute husband and 7 on her own after their divorce, you get the feeling she wasn't too keen about him, as she only mentions him once in the narrative) with lyrical, lovely prose.
This is not a linear story, but rather a collection of short vignettes about Africa: her friends there, animals she loved and those she hunted, the beauty of the landscape, and most problematical, funny stories about her native servants.
Unlike most women of that era of the early 1900s, she is alive and open to the natives and accepts their ways, without being too critical.
Not to worry, the book is even better since the author was a keen observer and an accomplished storyteller.Isak Dinesen is the pen name for the Baroness Karen von Blixen-Finecke who came from Denmark to British East Africa (Kenya) with her husband in 1914.
She tells stories about the customs of the native workers on the farm, the beauty of the Ngong Hills, and her British neighbors.
Unfortunately, the coffee plantation failed in the same year, and Dinesen had to leave her farm and return to Denmark.
The author came across as an energetic, kind person who helped the natives with their medical problems and tried to learn about their culture.
I have no idea why my mom recommended this book to me.
A white British colonist tells the story of her privileged life on her coffee plantation in Kenya.
She writes some great imagery about the Kenyan landscape and tells funny stories about animals, except that her idea of the landscape and animals includes all the Black servants and workers and "squatters" on her plantation.
How darling of them!I think you're supposed to find her some sort of feminist heroine because she owns this plantation all by herself.
I had a farm in Africa at the foot of the Ngong Hills.I visited Karen Blixen’s house in Rungsted last week and was immediately drawn into her magical realm of cross-cultural storytelling and awe-inspiring life.
I bought this book there, the cover of which was painted by Blixen herself, and immersed myself in the incredible story of her life in Africa.
The memoir is a deeply fascinating, often touching, occasionally problematic (seen with modern eyes; more on this later) portrait of her love of Africa – the people, the land, the animals.
"I have owned a farm in Africa, at the foot of the Ngong." Thus begins the story of Karen Blixen who spent part of his life in Kenya, at the head of a coffee plantation. His autobiographical columns describes a continent, a country, contented from the menu set little jokes or big events that punctuated his life and that of his "people" in dream landscapes, in a land which she loved the people, the legends, the traditions.Do not seek from the film Out of Africa a love story. Karen's husband is v
Thus begins the story of Karen Blixen who spent part of his life in Kenya, at the head of a coffee plantation.
His autobiographical columns describes a continent, a country, contented from the menu set little jokes or big events that punctuated his life and that of his "people" in dream landscapes, in a land which she loved the people, the legends, the traditions.Do not seek from the film Out of Africa a love story.
but for Africa.
In every sentence of Karen Blixen, we discover his immense passion, his respect for his homeland.
Reto #11 PopSugar 2018: Un libro de una autora que use un seudónimo masculino A pesar de lo que pueda dar a entender su sinopsis o la premiada película que protagonizaran Meryl Streep y Robert Redford (África mía en español), este libro no es una novela. Tal como dice su título son... memorias.Con una prosa maravillosa, la autora va saltando por diferentes experiencias, anécdotas y vivencias de su estancia en África, sin un orden cronológico entre ellas, las que va enriqueciendo con sus propias
Farah, que había estado a bordo, me dijo que procedían del África Oriental portuguesa e iban hacia Hamburgo, para un zoológico ambulante.Las jirafas volvían sus delicadas cabezas de un lado a otro, como si estuvieran sorprendidas, lo cual debía ser verdad.
¿Dónde se han ido las otras jirafas, las que iban junto a ellas y galopaban por la tierra ondulada?
Non potevo apprezzare, quindi, il passo lento, meditato, con cui la buona scrittura induce a disciogliere i pensieri più fondi.Il libro, come tutti i libri, con la sua saggezza ieratica, mi ha aspettato.
Poi, con quel tempismo intuibile - ma inspiegabile - che solo i libri hanno, mi ha richiamato e regalato la sua essenza.
Il cammino attraverso cui arriviamo a capire che ogni morte rappresenta, all'istante, la nascita di un'identità.
E che solo questo - e proprio questo - ci consente di essere lieti di avere comunque vissuto.
******************************I had to wait thirty years for the right time to come.
Out of Africa is a modern classic memoir of Isak Dinesen's ( Karen Blixen) years in Kenya.(1914-1931) Arriving from Denmark with her husband to run a 4,000 acre Coffee Plantation, after their separation she stays on to manage the farm alone.
We know the love of her life Denys Finch Hatton, a safari guide, was killed in a plane crash and that she finally is forced to return to Denmark when her farm fails , but I learned far more about her feelings about these people and events from McLain's book than her own.
I'm not sure I've ever read another memoir where the author's personal life and feelings were so absent.
It accurately describes Karen's own life and her experiences in Kenya, though she seems quite oblivious of the larger political scenario around her.
It was usually most jarring for me whenever Karen compares the local Kenyans to animals.
I found it extremely bizarre as the Kenyans get compared to elephants, mules, giraffes, and pretty much any other animal that she has come across.
But despite all this, I really enjoyed the book.
I found Karen herself a sympathetic, if slightly oblivious character.As a classic, Out of Africa holds its own since it has vividly captured a time in history and presents a micro-historical view of one woman's perspective.

"If I know a song of Africa, of the giraffe and the African new moon lying on her back, of the plows in the fields and the sweaty faces of the coffee pickers, does Africa know a song of me? Will the air over the plain quiver with a color that I have had on, or the children invent a game in which my name is, or the full moon throw a shadow over the gravel of the drive that was like me, or will the eagles of the Ngong Hills look out for me?”Beautiful.
Dinesen writes, "It was not I who was going away, I did not have it in my power to leave Africa, but it was the country that was slowly and gravely withdrawing from me, like the sea in ebb-tide.
Dinesen's book is so much about the end of things.
But maybe that is what is attractive about books about this continent, where the line between life and death is razor-sharp.
On a structural level, the book is a pastiche of anecdotes about life in Africa, some interesting, some dull.
فهمیدن این کتاب برایم سخت بود و امیدوارم روزی بتوانم کامل بخوانشفیلمش رو دو یا سه بار دیدم با دیدن ا
There's a reason why people keep reading this book decade after decade.
It's a masterpiece, a memoir about life on a farm in Africa that is filled with such humanity, generosity, love, and nostalgia that it is impossible to resist.
Dinesen does wonders at telling a rather simple story in ways that keep the reader captive.
It's enchanting like a real, bittersweet, exotic, mysterious fairy-tale: with the author's words, her life on the African continent becomes an extraordinary adventure of almost epic size, even when the events she narrates are intimate and humble.
More than the facts, she has captured, with this book, the essence of what made her life in Africa unique, and it's spellbinding.
You might have a more accurate understanding of a deer by not assuming it loves its fawn in the way we love our children, but why would you seek that knowledge in the first place without the emotion triggered by that assumption?Dinesen is full of this kind of love of nature, but she is also in love with the landscape and the people, all of which she she sees as inextricable (they "were different expressions of the same idea" p.
But people who aren't like you are still obviously different, and therefore at least a little bit scary, so while we choose not to judge them (consciously), we may also avoid them, and never actually get to know them.
There is reference to a husband, but no discussion of him.
Reference to sickness but no clarity as to what caused it.
References to male friends, but no insight into their relationship with the author.
To fill in the blanks, I picked up Linda Donelson's "Out of Isak Dineson: Karen Blixen's untold story".
I would recommend both this book and Donelson's work.Out of Isak Dineson: Karen Blixen's untold story, Donelson, 1995https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...For more on complicated women in beautiful Africa, seeWest with the Night, Markham, 1942https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Published in 1937, “Out of Africa” is a memoir by Danish author Baroness Karen von Blixen-Finecke (who wrote under the pen name, Isak Dinesen) that recounted 17 years of the life she shared with the native folks in British East Africa that is modern day Kenya.
Blixen reflected that "the free union between my house and the antelope was a rare, honourable thing." How sweet to read about ties forged on the farm grounds between the bushbucks, deerhounds, and the houseboys.Denys Finch-Hatton and Blixen shared a wonderful friendship.
The one thing that truly appalled me was the way that when she was leaving Africa, she sells the house, the furniture, she helps the Natives find a place to go, and she fully intends to shoot all of her dogs and horses.
This was extremely disturbing to me.The love story portion of the movie is completely absent here and a husband is casually mentioned about 200 pages in.
In a way, it showed how at home she was and how much Africa was a part of her.I'm not entirely sure why I was never particularly interested.
At the same time I was putting this book away many times expecting it to be somewhat of slow paced and at that moment I usually wanted to read something more "entertaining".And it was somewhat slow paced in fact, yet it was also entertaining enough to keep me turning pages till I finished it.
Nostalgia is the word tagging it majorly.It's obvious that the main subject of the book is African nature and its people.
So it baffles me a bit, how a person of such high sensitivity to nature and ecological thinking (I guess there was no such word at time) could so passionately talk about hunting.
The reason I wanted to read "Out of Africa" was to get a better view of Karen Blixen and her story that was made into the movie: More about her husband, Denys, D, Berkeley, safaris etc.
What I did learn was the story of a woman with infinite gratitude for her life in Africa.
She loved not only her husband, lover and friends but the land, natives, wildlife, the air she breathed and life as it was presented to her.
A magnificent story that I will read again, now that I know what to expect.
