https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/125963.Thr3e
I picked up this book because I love thrillers and after reading the synopsis I thought I'd give it a try.
It was such a boring book but I kept hoping.
You could tell the author was trying to create and build suspense everytime it got around to finding the "bomb", but it was just laughable.
Why do authors think their readers are complete idiots?
All the characters were flat, boring and at times, very irritating.This is just a ridiculous story which is terribly written.
I don't think I'll be picking up any of his books ever again.
Do you remember that part where fictionalized version of real life screenwriter Charlie Kaufman's (totally fictional) twin brother Donald is telling him about the terrible-sounding screenplay he's written?
Isn't that fucked up?Charlie: The only idea more overused than serial killers is multiple personality.
Charlie: And they're still all one person, right?
Donald's screenplay is called "The Three." This book is called Thr3e.
So you see, this book is exactly the plot of the terrible screenplay from the movie.
Did Charlie Kaufman write this book?
Is Donald Kaufman actually a real person?
Ted Dekker, Thr3e (Thomas Nelson, 2003)Going into this book and knowing it was “Christian fiction”, I really have to admit I didn't expect a great deal (read: anything) from it.
Slater tells him he has three minutes to confess his sin to the world or his car will explode.
Kevin, who was smart enough to get out of the car before it blew, has to both figure out who Slater is and what the sin is that he's supposed to confess.
What a pleasant surprise Thr3e was, and I'm looking forward to reading more of Mr. Dekker's work.
No se si fuera porque gran parte del tiempo lo sentí como que ya lo habia visto en algun otro lugar o porque Kevin me desesperaba enormemente perono me encanto, simplemente me gusto mucho, pero más que por la trama en si fue por el trabajo que nuestroprotagonisgta se encontraba preparando.
De hecho a partir de ahí es que para micomenzo a ser interesante,lo cual nos lleva a un final dramático y explosivo.Si bien no considero que la historia en tenga algo por demás especial, la manera de escribir de Dekker me gusto por tanto creo que volveré a leer algo de el.
Más de lo mismo pero entretenido. Capaz vuelva al autor, dentro de todo me dejó una buena impresión, pero, como ya dije, no lo considero nada fuera de lo normal, e incluso me pareció, hasta cierto punto, mal llevado a cabo. De todas formas lo recomiendo para pasar el rato.
I really enjoyed this book. It was the first book that I read of Ted Dekker's, and I was so impressed with his knowledge and writing techniques. The story is thrilling and was a perfect page turner for my husband (who isn't an avid reader) and me. And I LOVE the ending...big twist.
Un libro que no te brinda ni un segundo de respiro.No puedo decir nada que no se convierta en un spoiler, por tanto me lo reservo; pero para quien se anime a leerlo, encontrará un thriller excepcional con un giro inesperado hacia su final.100% recomendadoP.D.: La película no le rinde homenaje al libro.
4,5Pueden decir lo que quieran de este libro, pero a mi me encantó!!!!!!!!!!!!! *O* (no leí muchos libros de este género y no puedo guiarme con nada, pero realmente disfruté mucho leyéndolo, los personajes me encantaron, creo que el autor supo desarrollar muy bien la trama y no me venía venir el final)¡LO AMÉ!
I also like good Christian fiction.
Ted Dekker has written several books and is a very popular writer and I wish him the best.
I am forced to the conclusion that I'm just not going to be a Ted Dekker fan.
I'd really have to discuss some of his conclusions with him.Christian doctrine can be that way.Aside from this the book, the story as a whole left me cold...it drove me almost to distraction.
(hide spoiler)]So, I thought of 2 stars but to be fair I really didn't like this book at all.
If you're a Dekker fan try this one for yourself, many like it.
Based on reading Thr3e, I'd say that Ted Dekker is an excellent storyteller, but not the greatest writer.
I couldn't put the book down when I was reading it because the story was so intense and gripping.
I had to know what happened next...
and "what happened next" totally blind-sided me.
I never saw it coming.
If you're looking for a great suspense/mystery/thriller story that's clean but not preachy, this one does it for the Christian and non-Christian alike.However, the whole time I was reading it I was aware (not painfully, but it did stick out to me) that this is not the best writing I've ever come across.
Wow! este libro me recordó porque amo los thrillers. No lo ví venir, si bien el secreto ronda, la explicación del título del libro me encantó. Y la reflexión muy precisa. Recomendado total!
One of the smartest things I've read.My Dekker-fangirl-heart needs a reread <3
my mind is still spinning over that ending. o.o
This was the author of my teen years. I devoured everything he wrote. Honestly, I can't say with absolute certainty I'd rate this book so high if I were to pick it up today. But I was absolutely mind-boggled the first time I read it. It has a special place in my heart, if for no other reasons than nostalgia and a twist I did not see coming at that age.
This was the book that put Ted Dekker on the map.
I've read varying reviews: many people have adored it, whereas others have despised it, especially the ending (which I won't reveal here).
Even though I'd read it before and seen the movie--both when I was in college, which was years ago--and therefore already knew what would transpire, I had fun reading this thriller.
Maybe it isn't this author's best, but, hey, we all have to start somewhere.
Then again, I'm just a sucker for a story; as long as it isn't morally filthy, I always want to see how things end.
Don't read this review if you don't want the plot twist revealed.I can't believe I just spent 4 hours reading this book.
If there is anything that I hate it's a "let's fill this in with something" "Three's Company" (no pun) miscommunication conjecture-laden spun up on crank plot.
No edge at all.Let me just run down the parts of it that make me want to puke:* the lack of understanding of MPD* the lack of distinguishing MPD from DID, Schizo and PTSD (very very vague descriptions)* the good/bad dark/light polarity whose only grey area can be a wounded child--ie innocent powerlessness* the really weak movement of the plot (ie a ping pong match)Granted, the average joe reading this plot doesn't know anything about MPD et al, so it will read like a definitive fictional work.
4 StarsWow! My brain could not comprehend that ending at all!This book is purely psychological and keeps you guessing about good and evil to the very end. This is a must read for those who love suspense, because I kept wondering, "What is the secret!!???" And when it was finally revealed, I just sat there with my mouth hanging open. It was hinted at, but too many clues in the book indicated otherwise. I think I have become a new fan of Mr. Dekker.
Wow. Pure genius. I wasn't expecting the ending. (All Ted dekker books will be 5 stars from what I see)
LEIDO PARA EL 2015 READING CHALLENGE: #11 A BOOK WITH A ONE WORD TITLE Tuve buenos y malos momentos con este libro. Es un buen thriller, que empieza muy bien y muy intenso, pero que a la mitdad del libro decae un poco. Creo que con unas páginas menos hubiera estado mejor. Aún así, "la resolución" levanta mucho porque cuando crees que resolviste el misterio, hay una vuelta de tuerca más y el escritor demuestra que el dió todas las pistas necesarias, solo que no nos dimos cuenta de lo que realmen
Tuve buenos y malos momentos con este libro.
Es un buen thriller, que empieza muy bien y muy intenso, pero que a la mitdad del libro decae un poco.
Creo que con unas páginas menos hubiera estado mejor.
Aún así, "la resolución" levanta mucho porque cuando crees que resolviste el misterio, hay una vuelta de tuerca más y el escritor demuestra que el dió todas las pistas necesarias, solo que no nos dimos cuenta de lo que realmente pasaba.
Destaco la complejidad del protagonista masculino, quien sin duda se roba el libro.
Fue una buena lectura.
READ THIS BOOK!!!It was thrilling, amazing, edge-of-your-seat thriller!!!! I couldn't put it down, I read it till late at night, and then had trouble sleeping! :D I can't tell much of the plot, for that would give the story away, but here's a brief bit from christianbook.com:Imagine answering your cell phone to hear a stranger's voice issuing a chilling threat: You have three minutes to confess your sin, or he'll blow your car to smithereens. You pull over and flee just in time---but the threats keep coming. What "sin" is he talking about? How will you escape? An un-put-downable thriller!
Al inicio del libro estaba emocionada porque, ¿qué es mejor que un buen crimen lleno de suspenso? Pero a la mitad me sentí un poco decepcionada porque se estaba convirtiendo en mucho de una sola cosa y solo se repetía y repetía. Hasta pensé que le daría tres estrellas. Los seis últimos capítulos me dejaron con la boca abierta. Un final inesperado, un gran plot twist. Aplausos para el autor.
Este libro es una lastima total... Se va volviendo cada vez mas aburrido luego de la trama inicial que te atrapa y promete mucho. Su principal argumento (la confesión del protagonista de su pecado mas oscuro) se torna bastante caricaturesca de parte del autor, y el final bastante insuficiente la verdad. Sin embargo aporta bastantes momentos entretenidos pero sin llegar a ser una obra de 5 estrellas.
me encantó, este libro! me mantuvo enganchadísima de principio a fin! (view spoiler)[ nunca me imaginé que kevin tuviera personalidad multiple. incluso cuando jenifer y el dr. francis entraron al sótano esperaba que se encontraran con 3 personas y no solo con kevin. jamás se me hubiera ocurrido que sam fuera parte de esa personalidad. el final me gustó, pensaba que lo internarían en un psiquiátrico o algo así, pero menos mal no fue lo que pasó. (hide spoiler)] en resumen, super super recomendado
me encantó, este libro! me mantuvo enganchadísima de principio a fin! (view spoiler)[ nunca me imaginé que kevin tuviera personalidad multiple. incluso cuando jenifer y el dr. francis entraron al sótano esperaba que se encontraran con 3 personas y no solo con kevin. jamás se me hubiera ocurrido que sam fuera parte de esa personalidad. el final me gustó, pensaba que lo internarían en un psiquiátrico o algo así, pero menos mal no fue lo que pasó.  (hide spoiler)] en resumen, super super recomendado el libro!
Not recommended to young readers or teens.
De todos los libros que he leído hasta el momento este ha sido el único que me ha echo explotar la cabeza 🤯 con su desenlase, ahora entiendo perfectamente el nombre y la portada.
Mr. Dekker is the bomb!!When I read the part in the beginning about having to solve a riddle in three minutes or the car (that you were in) would blow up, a couple of things crossed my mind.
Good thing, Kevin was sharper under pressure and the book took on a run.This was not a ghostly-chop the bodies to pieces kind of horror that I thought it would be.
What's magical about ideas is how they are brought to life, not their inception.".This will not be the last book that I will read of Mr. Dekker's works.
A few things that really bothered me about this book (without giving away the story for all of you poor misguided souls who managed to read this review and STILL decide to read this book):- Dekker must have loved M.
I'm all for a good twist here and there but Teddy you went severely overboard with this book.
A few good things about this book:- I did find the story of Kevin's strange upbringing somewhat intriguing, but that was before Teddy ruined it all.- It's a quick read so while it will definitely be a waste of your time it won't waste too much time.
I'm struggling writing this book review.
I'm struggling with my decision to not finish the book.
I wanted so badly to love this book - to even LIKE it, but it failed me.
The book starts out with a brief and shallow discussion on the nature of evil in mankind.
The author won points for not wasting time with that.
My problem is with all the things the author did waste time with.
The character occupation note was to give him some kind of innocence or good, but the author didn't back it up.
It was listed in the "Inspirational Fiction" section (the Christian Fiction) section, but one of the fairly good things about it is it's not at all preachy even though the man-in-peril in this one, Keven Parson, is a seminary student.
The bad thing though is that its basically a routine suspense/thriller with a twist--that...
The love interest was predictable, and because its Christian Fiction we have to believe in a 28-year-old male virgin and sexual tension over a kiss on the cheek, and an evil villain whose worst swear word is "puke face." Have to give it points for it making me read it to the end though--because I was interested in the secret of Kevin's upbringing.
Wow what a roller coaster of a ride. The beginning reminded me so much of the movie speed. But that ending I still can't believe it! Great read and I will certainly try another Ted Dekker book.
