https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/556602.Sarah_s_Key
It should never be forgottenBy Sol TetelbaumReview: Sarah’s Key by Tatiana de Rosnay Almost a hundred readers published their reviews on Tatiana de Rosnay’s novel Sarah’s Key. Most of them rated the book in four or five stars, but some of them calling the novel “mediocre” showed a lower rating – three stars. It is necessary to admit that their opinions weren’t unfounded and most critical comments were fair. However, from my standpoint, despite the fair critical comments (I don’t think it is nec
In her novel, the author writes with anxiety and great concern that people want to forget about the Holocaust.
Russian anthropoids captured power in the Soviet Russia, invented concentration camps and, killing over a million innocent people yearly.
Using modern technology, fascist anthropoids made the killing of humans a branch of industry.
This book is about events which were not wide-known; it reminds people about the necessity to be alert.
Otherwise, the modern anthropoids will commit a new Holocaust, and now all people can become their victims.
I was intrigued by the plot for this book.
A young girl locks her brother in a cupboard at their apartment in Paris before the Police, at the behest of the Nazi's, take away her and her family.
They wait for several days in a detention center, in conditions like the Superdome, before being sent to camps in Southern France, and we wonder if she will retrieve her little brother before he dies or starves or hopefully, is rescued.
Unfortunately, another storyline involving a two dimensional American woman whining about her insensetive French husband comes in every other chapter and the mediocre writing makes what could have been an interesting story less than satisfying.
I might have given this book higher marks if I hadn't just finished the infinitely superior The Book Thief. But as it is I'm feeling pretty generous with my 2 stars. The subject matter was intriguing. I didn't realize what had happened with the Jews in France. But the author spent too little time with Sarah and her experience there and too much time with boring, self-absorbed, present day Julia and her sex life. Snore!
October 2009: re-reading this book again for another book club.
I hope I like it better than the 1st time but so far I'm not seeing it.
The true story is heartbreaking, and very interesting, but her writing just doesn't impress me as expressing the true horrors experienced by the deported Jews, or any real feeling for Julia's anger at her husband disdainful treatment of her.
Spring 2009: Predictable story, pedestrian & predictable writing: None of the plot surprises were surprising.
I felt I wasted my time on this book (selected for a book club I belong to)
Here's Sarah and her little brother as the police are banging on the door and taking the whole family away for being Jewish:"She grabbed him, but he wriggled out of her grasp and slithered into the long, deep cupboard hidden in the surface of the wall of their bedroom.
If the police try to open a cupboard to look inside and it's locked, they're going to make you unlock it.
I wish she would die in a locked cupboard.
When she named the baby Sarah, even though I saw it coming a mile away and I hated her anyway so why do I care?!?!
I loved the pacing of the story, how it switched between Sarah's story and Julia's story up until the point where the two merged.
I loved how the style of Sarah's story was completely different than the style of Julia's story.
I think the author did a good job of illustrating why the French people seemed to forget what had happened and how the Holocaust indirectly affected them.
I hope writers continue writing stories like "Sarah's Key" that bring the atrocities of the Holocaust to light so we can learn and not repeat those mistakes.
It tells two stories -- one, about a young French girl whose family is rounded up and taken away during the Holocaust, and the other about a modern-day journalist who is tracking down her story.
I wanted to feel something, because it was a Holocaust story, for crying out loud, but maybe once you've read The Book Thief, everything else pales in comparison.
Plus, rather than showing the horrible conditions Sarah went through and letting the audience feel sad because they cared about her, the author just kept telling us how sad and terrible everything was, so there was nothing left to feel.
When she discovered information about the Vel' D'Hiv' roundup, she knew she had to write about it.
The book is her tribute to the 4,000 children who were victims of that roundup.
Bad enough that they were killed, but before that, they were left in the French camp without their parents.
The least we can do is to know their story and remember them.I felt like the Vel' D'Hiv' story was diluted by the current day drama of Julia and her "vain Frog" husband Bertrand.
I suppose the author was trying to connect the two time periods, but I would have liked to have more information about the families of children like Sarah.
The characters were people that I felt I had known my entire life.
I felt I could see them, hear them, feel their pain...
Yet I wish the author would have evolved Mame's story.
Honestly I wanted for Mame to be Sarah.
Julia and Mame had a relationship I wanted to read more about and the author took that from me.
I didn't care for the ending or how Sarah died...
I wanted Julia to find her.
I wanted for Michel to get out of the cupboard and find Sarah.
There were so many things I wanted from this book.
Not a horrible read...
Added 11/8/09.In _Sarah's Key_ the chapters alternate between the war era and the time sixty years later.
We watch as a reporter tries to find out more about what happened during the 1942 round-up of Jewish people in France (known as the "Vel' d’Hiv’ Roundup") (Vélodrome d'Hiver).
We also watch the actual round-up as it is happening.
I think I'll remember it for a long time.PS-I'm looking forward to seeing the movie adapted from the book in 2010:http://movies.netflix.com/WiMovie/Sar...http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1668200/PPS-The movie was well done.
I watched it in January 2012 via a Netflix DVD.
This is a dual-timeline historical fiction novel, about the arrests of Jewish families in France during WWII and their terrible experiences, focusing on the actual historic Vel' d'Hiv' roundup in July 1942, and a modern journalist's investigation of that event and her search for some of the people involved.The inside of the Vélodrome d'Hiver bicycle stadium, demolished in 1959In the 1942 timeline, in Paris: a 10 year old girl is arrested with her Polish mother and father in the middle of the night.
Sarah is a 10 year old girl living in Paris when her life is shattered by the French Police, who come into her home to arrest her parents and deport them, along with thousands of other French Jews.
Her haunting story is intertwined with that of Julia, a journalist who stumbles upon Sarah's story as well as learning about the involvement of the French Police in the deportations.Julia's fascination with the story leads her on a journey of not only self-discovery, but also a discovery of a her family's past, a country's past, and the consequences of a terrible secret.
I was aware of the treatment of the Jews in Paris as a group but I had never heard of this particular event where the children were separated, subjected to terrible cruelty and finally killed.
I spent the next few chapters praying that it would be okay (view spoiler)[but eventually reality won out over fairy tales and the worst happened (hide spoiler)]I enjoyed the way the book was written, in both modern day and WW2 Paris.
A slightly ambiguous ending leaves the reader making the final decision on what happens next.I liked it and would recommend it to anyone who enjoys historical fiction especially involving WW2.
Reporter Julia Jarmond is investigating the events of 1942, when French authorities rounded up the Jews of the cities and put them in concentration camps, an investigation that uncovers links to her husband's family.
In order to keep the biscuits and gravy train rolling smoothly, here we are.Sarah's Key features two parallel plotlines for a good portion of the book, that of Sarah Starzynski and that of Julia Jarmond, the reporter who stumbles upon her story.
Without spoiling anything, I longed for something bad to happen to him.I was pretty sure I knew how the two plotlines would intersect and wound up being right in some ways.
It's always disappointing to read books like this because I can't help but think with every wrong turn, every cringe worthy sentence that this could have been so much better in a capable writer's hands.
I'm a total sucker when it comes to sad books and cry very easily while reading, however, I never once cried during Sarah's Key, despite the subject matter which I think speaks greatly to the poor quality of the writing.
Taking all the chapters, there was very little time with Sarah.
I also enjoyed Julie's own family drama and the mystery she uncovered that connected her to Sarah and her sad story, not only through geography but emotion as well.But then Sarah's point of view ends and Julia's story flounders.
I think some of the later points in the story would have been better told from Sarah's point of view, even if Julie never discovered them (driving home the point of these lost stories and people).
Also, I could have used a little more selling on why discovering Sarah's story was so important to Julia.
(hide spoiler)]I don't think Rosnay knew how to end her story.
I wasn’t sure how the back and forth chapters between one girl in 1942 and a different woman in 2002 were going to work for me, but this story is so well told.I thought I’d be interested in the 1942 story but wasn’t sure how much I’d become involved with the 2002 story, but much to my relief I enjoyed both stories, although I did think Sarah’s 1942 story was slightly stronger than Julia’s 2002 story.
I read it in two days as I was loathe to put it down.The tale seemed mostly authentic, occasionally something rang slightly off but I didn’t take note and those moments were ones I forgot because the story as a whole rang true.
Knjiga koja govori o istinitom dogadjaju koji se zbio tokom Drugog svetskog rata u Parizu, o kome se kod nas malo zna... Kada su Francuzi pokupili Jevreje, zatvorili ih na velodrom i poslali ih u konc. logor... Potresno, prosvetljujuće i guta se u dahu... Kod nas je objavljena pod naslovom Sarin ključ...
Julia Jarmond, an American journalist living in Paris, is assigned to cover the upcoming 60th anniversary of the Vel 'd 'Hiv, the day French Jews were arrested in the "roundup," and ultimately sent to the death camps in Auschwitz.
Secondly, the contrasts between the attitudes of the French people in 1942 and those in the modern day portion of the story was chilling.
Lastly, what was happening in Julia's personal life provided another opportunity to view the attitude of indifference more closely.
She provided a different tone to the historical portion, which helped me manage the transitions between the two periods.
It was the French Police, not the Nazis, who dragged French Jews from their homes, separated parents from children, and sent them on to their deaths, all of which was witnessed by French citizens who did little to stop these horrific events.
When the police come to take her family away, a ten year old girl locks her four year old brother in the cupboard, thinking he will be safe and that she can come back and get him.
It is never clear why the girl's parents did nothing when they knew she had locked the brother in the cupboard, at the very first moment.
World War II and its legacy in France, and a project on the "rafle du Vel d'Hiv"- the massive round-up of Jews that took place in Paris on July 16th, 1942.
This story will appeal to my younger students, teaching them at the same time of this shameful episode of French collaboration with the German occupiers, under the Vichy government.
By looking the other way,and pretending not to know where the Jews were being transported after the local French camps at Drancy and Pithiviers (they were immediately transported to Auschwitz) some 9,000 French police catalogued and arrested over 13,000 French and foreign Jews residing in France, and sent them to the Velodrome d'Hiver, a large stadium in Paris.
Let me try to explain why I didn't like this book very much.
I believe one of the sales quotes on the back of the book can help me communicate why.
Keep in mind that this is, at least in part, a book about French complicity in the Holocaust:"Sarah's Key unlocks the star-crossed, heart-thumping story of an American journalist in Paris and the sixty-year-old secret that could destroy her marriage."Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
If I'm going to read hundreds of pages past the horrifying situation set up at the beginning of this book, the writing's going to need to be more than sub-par. Telling me that characters are interesting and complex instead of self-indulgent and one-dimensional doesn't make it so. Don't tell me you actually drove me away from a Holocaust book, de Rosnay. That's pretty hard to do. File under "Life's too short to read this book," please.
A journalist stumbles upon the story of a young Jewish girl who was rounded up with the other Parisian Jews in 1942, and learns of her harrowing tale.*Buy tissues.Sarah's Key Book Review
The author uses what has become the standard template for so many WW2 novels – a dual narrative of then and now.
The modern section about an investigative journalist was brought better to life probably because the author was writing about many of her own experiences researching this novel.
I saw the film years ago and I’d recommend it over the book.
If a book’s not particularly well written the film is often the better option.
That said I’d recommend the film La Rafle which deals with the same subject, over the film of this.
Julia and Bertrand's relationship reminded me of Sophie and Victor from Letters to Juliet -- although I would still pick Victor over Bertrand (view spoiler)[because even though their relationship broke down, at least he never cheated (hide spoiler)].
Stories that involve the lesser-known parts of the war have always attracted me; there are so many facets to the whole thing and I'm determined to find as many as I can.
(view spoiler)[In this version, Sarah's ex-husband knows her story and shares it with the son, which is what propels him back to Julia.
(hide spoiler)] Still good though.
I struggled whether to give this a two-star rating rather than a three.
I enjoyed reading it, but I didn't read it very thoroughly.
The book needed better characterization---I didn't really CARE about the main character (an American journalist who lives in Paris in the current day).
(In 1942, thousands of Jewish people were rounded up in Paris by FRENCH police, kept in deplorable conditions in a biking stadium for days, then shipped off the concentration camps and gassed.
Very, very few people in the roundup survived.) But I read the book way too fast to really have made a serious connection with it.
The two stories intertwined in a believable way as journalist, Julia, learns about the horrific "round up" of French Jews during the war.
I thought that coming to learn about Sarah, gave Julia a purpose and insight to her own life....one that was not especially her own.
For me she grew as a person during this story, and though I did not always care for her I did enjoy seeing where she ended up.
The historical aspect was wonderful, lagged a bit in the story of Julia's personal life...as some of it I did not need to make this a good read.
Interesting, tragic, but predictable.
The heartbreaking, heartwrenching stories of both Julia and Sarah are so eloquently related to us that it is just too easy to put ourselves in their place.
Her despair at watching her parents being ripped away from her, the conditions of Vel d'Hiv and the move to Beaune-la-Rolande and escape from the camp with a girl named Rachel.
She is to do a "companion" piece for the commemoration of the tragedy of Vel d'Hiv. During her research, she learns that the apartment was part of one of the families story, linking that family to her in-laws'.
