https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53667.A_Malady_of_Magicks
"'A wizard is only as good as his spells,' people will often say.
This statement is only made by people who have never been wizards themselves.
Those of us who have chosen to pursue a sorcerous career know that a knowledge of spells is only one small facet of the successful magician.
Equally important are a quick wit, a soothing tongue, and, perhaps most important, a thorough knowledge of back alleys, underground passageways, and particularly dense patches of forest, for those times when the spell you knew so well doesn't quite work after all."- - -Next in Series: 
Picked this up off a book swap shelf at a railway station, and now I understand why it was left there.
The attempted humour in this book is clumsy, absurd and over-egged, and I say attempted because I never even smiled while reading it; the most I got out of it was an occasional eye-roll at Guxx's terrible rhyming.There's barely any plot, and no truly cohesive narrative; it's very clear even without reading the copyright page that half the chapters were pasted together from the author's other short stories - and that doesn't work at all well here.This book has been compared by other reviewers to Terry Pratchett's Discworld novels.
This series is hilarious. The humor is different from that of Pratchett, but the net result is the same - side splitting laughter in a fantasy genre. Good luck getting a copy though - its been out of print for ages, and no, you can't have mine...
i wish i could give this book 3.5 stars, 'cause i liked it more than 3, but it wasn't so fantastic as to deserve a 4. it is definitely a fun read--and sometimes it's surprising and intelligent, too. so if you are looking for fun, light entertainment that comes packed with wizards, magic, giants, demons, and rains of dead haddock, this is definitely worth your time.i highly recommend it!
My return to the world of Ebenezum revealed this little book to not quite be laced with the wit and invention that I had remembered encoutering when I was thirteen. From an adult's perspective, the pace is a bit breakneck, and there isn't quite the depth I would ideally look for. One firmly for the kids I think, who I'm sure will love it, especially those looking to give fantasy books a go for the first time without overloading on something too earnest.
It's hardly Myth'ing a thingComic SF & fantasy is a sub genre I Don' t get to enjoy often, this book pleasantly filled my craving. I look forward to finish the trilogy.
Maybe it's unfair to compare this to Discworld, as despite both being humorous stories in fantasy settings there's a very different tone here.
Despite the occasional dip into parody Gardner mostly seems content with absurdity and wacky events, happy to undermine the drama by being silly and making a joke.
Absurd humour just for the sake of being absurd doesn't really appeal to me.In general there's not much accomplished in the story either.
I don't see myself reading any of Gardner's other novels, despite owning another four.
Granted, I have the first three books in one hardback edition so this isn't the first time I've read this.In the spirit of Myth Adventures, this book is a bunch of little adventures along the way in a larger adventure.
Silly little accidents start or end each one with the bumbling apprentice and his incapacitated wizard tutor.This is a fun, light hearted read but you can't help but compare it to the myth series.
It's just not as good.That being said, it is funny at times and keeps you entertained.
This book was very light-hearted, and had a lot of funny lines.
But it feels like all the funny lines are slung together, without a lot of description or context.So, there is ridiculous and silly things constantly happening, but I felt like there needed to be a little substance inbetween.
And sometimes the ridiculous things get a little too elaborately ridiculous.A few serious lines would make the funny parts funnier, if you have punchline after punchline, then there ceases to be a punchline.
Just the simple funniness would have been fine for me.
Before Terry Pratchett took the reins of humorous fantasy, There were two go-to sources for that genre crossover: Alan Dean Foster, whose Spellsinger series cemented him in my mind as one of the great fantasy innovators of the 80s, and Craig Shaw Gardner.In this, the first of a trilogy, Gardner is in typical form.
His gags are often dependent on a vaudevillian over-the-top send-up of fantasy tropes, but he avoids the cheap puns of Piers Anthony's work in the field.
Instead, he relies on anachronism (the demonic adversaries are used-car salesmen, down to their seersucker suits) and juxtaposition (a damsel and dragon decide to eschew their typical fairy-tale roles in favor of starting a song-and-dance act).

In the same tradition as Piers Anthony's Xanth novels, this is a comedic fiction that is fun to read, but ultimately relatively mindless.Interestingly enough, this series was pieced together from short stories the author wrote to help launch his career. I found the forward for the book as interesting as the writing itself as I have a bit of a fascination with a certain generation of fantasy and sci-fi authors. Surprise surprise, I find myself reading this at the same time that I have a Mercedes Lackey book and a Spider Robinson book going.
Um... The plot, such as it is, isn't finished in this book, not that it matters. Most of the humour fell completely flat for me. The running jokes weren't funny the first time, and there is a difference between madcap and random confusion. Characters converse for paragraphs before the oh by the way we picked up some travelling companions. There were other awkward moments in the writing. The main character doesn't really rescue much. The two stars come from this book being as light as promised, and from the introductions to each chapter.
I have been trying to remember the name of this book for ages and I finally found it!
I am rating 5 stars for the nostalgia of it and I really, really want to find another copy of this to re-read.From what I remember this book is about a wizard's apprentice who accidentally curses his master making the wizard allergic to magic.
The hapless apprentice then has to go find the cure before a wizard eating demon kills the wizard.
I need to find this book again to add to my collection!!
Meh. I can't believe this was ever a contender in the raging junior high debates about which fantasy series was the funniest. Asprin's ANOTHER FINE MYTH for one leaves this one in the dust.[Of course, nowadays Pratchett's Discworld book would render this debate utterly moot, but at the time I think only THE COLOUR OF MAGIC had been published in the US,]Still, I'm quite happy to have finally read it.
Po dlouhé době jsem se k této fantasy frašce vrátil a opět nezklamalo :-) Spíše než o klasickou knihu jde o soubor povídek, které volně navazují. Takže se dá číst kdykoliv a kdekoliv. A ty Ebenezumovo rady na začátku každé kapitoly! To nemá chybu. Zkrátka odpočinková záležitost, ke které se jeden rád vrací - i díky skvělému překladu.(tohle platí i pro další dva díly, takže u nich se rozepisovat nebudu)
I discovered this series of books because the cover artist was the same as Robert Aspirin's Myth Adventures. So far every book I've found with a Velez cover has been great. Odd but true.Gardner is absolutely fantastic at keeping a large group of characters going and sometimes talking all at the same time. Always entertaining with some of the funniest plot twists I've read.I can't recommend his books more.
Wuntvor and his adventures really grabbed my attention as a kid and made me a big fan of Craig Shaw Gardner and Josh Kirby (the cover artist for the edition I read). A Malady of Magicks was a fun trip into a parody fantasy land with the wizard Ebenezum and his apprentice Wuntvor (who comes into his own as the Eternal Champion Apprentice). Fun fantasy for those who don't need the complexities of Middleearth...
this has been on my bookshelf for a while, and I could not remember anything that happens in it. I just reread it, and... I'm already starting to forget. the book is set up in a series of mostly-unrelated vignettes as the main characters undertake a journey, so there's no real chance to grow to like any characters besides the main two. who I didn't, because they're sort of bland and the apprentice's annoying habit of falling in love with every girl in the book is not at all charming.
Идея явно взята у Р.Асприна, т.к. насколько я помню "Еще один великолепный миф" был написан раньше. Волшебник, потерявший возможность колдовать, ученик волшебника, которого волшебству не обучали, их путешествие. Только в данном случае претензия на юмор себя не оправдала, приключения скорее сами наталкиваются на героев, чем логически вытекают из сюжета, их поступков и принятых решений.
Quick reads can't get much more harmless than this. A Malady of Magicks is the peppermint you enjoy after a heavy dinner- by which I mean the fun little book I breezed through after digging into the 509 philosophical pages of Cloud Atlas. If you're in the mood for a clean-humor story with no mature themes, no deep thoughts, and plenty of good intentions, I heartily recommend this one.
i read this when i was a kid and it was the funniest most enjoyable series ive ever found. id like to read it again so i can see if its still as good, im sure it is, but unfortuantely i sold all my books when i was 18 so i could afford to move out. if i can find any of these books again ill never let them go.
Another in a long line of comedic fantasy novels, but one which lacked the whit and developed setting of a novel written by Terry Pratchett, whose brand of intelligent comedic fantasy I prefer. There were times when I couldn't help but chuckle, but overall I found the attempts at forced humor, especially through the employment of modern allusions, to be tiring.
The first book is amusing enough, but the rest of the series suffers from a serious case of diminishing returns. Each sequel seems to add at least one more, increasingly flat and obnoxious secondary character to the cast. By the third or fourth book, there are too many characters jostling for screen time.
Entertaining little book. I docked it one star for lack of coherent plot and another for one-dimensional presentation of women. But overall, it was a purely fun read. Less disturbing and more coherent than Monte Python, but if you like a little irreverent humor and don't mind some pure silliness, I'd recommend it.
I loved this series when I first read it as a kid and I pick it up every once in a while to reread when I need a chuckle. Light, humorous and not at all serious, it's the perfect popcorn book. A must read for any kid/adult with a sense of humor.
Silly and juvenile in the extreme, this is one of the few books to make me laugh out loud. The helpful wizarding tips at the beginning of each chapter seem more practical than any fantasy book that takes itself seriously and I laughed even more for the second trilogy than the first.
I enjoy fantasy and I enjoy parody. At moments this reminded me of discworld but only as a pale reflection. It had it's moments but overall wasn't quite there.
A cute and quirky read. I think I like Skeeve more than Wunt, but few are Robert Aspirin so maybe I ask too much. It did remind me of the Myth series a bit.
Seemed silly and contrite, but I think that was the aim of the book, it's just not the type of book I want to spend my time reading.
