https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41689.The_Key_to_Rebecca

Rebecca Vai à GuerraEsta história que nos leva até à exótica e misteriosa Cairo, tem uma pontinha de
Again the central figure is a Nazi spy with secrets that could change history.Like many of Follett’s books, The Key to Rebecca is rich with captivating historical detail that only adds to the flavor of the book and leaves readers with a better understanding about what World War II was like in the heat of North Africa.
If you like to learn something while you are entertained, then you won’t want to miss Follett’s classic spy thriller tour de force, The Key to Rebecca.
You've got Nazis: they're the bad guys.
They are the bad guys.
They are the ultimate bad guys.
Most of us have a pretty good idea how the second world war actually turned out and who won.
I won't give anything away for those who haven't.
"Otherwise I'll eventually be reading this in German, and won't know what's going on!" Spies, seduction, suspense.
These are my guilty pleasures when I just need to get away from it all and immerse myself in a world of intrigue and ethical absolutes.
And (view spoiler)[ I'm very glad the bad guys lost.
A Spy Novel that Reads Like a Good Alternate History Fiction(A Book Review of Ken Follett’s The Key to Rebecca)The last camel collapsed at noon.So begins Ken Follett’s intriguing World War II thriller set in 1942 Cairo, a city holding its breath.
However, while researching for The Eye of the Needle he chanced upon an incident in history that became the building block of what will become The Key to Rebecca that made him drew back and exclaim, hhmm…A few chapters in Follett’s third book, another novel set during the unfolding drama that is World War II, it structurally reminded me of his break out best seller, The Eye of the Needle.
Original review: "Enjoyed this just as much in a subsequent reading as first escape with Follett to WWII North Africa."4/16/18 -Have likely read, or at least started maybe two dozen by Follett.
Hornets Flight and Jackdaws, along with Rebecca.
Cathedral building's first volume.
Three Ken's remain in my GRCat. Suggest Pargeter if you like the cathedral era.
Ken mixed his ingredients most compatible to my wavelength ...
enjoyed the main characters enough to take another ride through the book, which I haven't done with Follett's other productions.The Rommel book by Pressfield fits besides Rebecca on my mental WW@shelf Killing RommelThe Heaven Tree Trilogy
Follett is excellent with his character development. This book is a complete shift from Pillars of the Earth. Follett is so talented in his different writing styles. Fun things I learned from reading this book: 1) don't become a spy2) if I do become a spy, don't use my real name3) don't go back to my home town where they can track down my real identity4) it's always better to be on the good team
Ao mesmo tempo é um livro bem escrito, sem grandes artícios, lê-se bem e é estimulante.
Enfim dou as 4 estrelas, um pouco a medo de que os puristas levem a mal, mas no entanto, embora seja um livro sem grande clamor literário, é um óptimo livro para se ler no Verão, na praia, com a azul do mar ao fundo e as palavras de Ken Follett a passar pelos nossos olhos, neste livro, que para mim, acho bem conseguido.
Recomendo a pessoas sem preconceitos.
This book was very easy to put down until the last 80 pages when the action finally took place.
I can handle some racy stuff in books, but there are a couple sentences I really wish I hadn't read that are in this book.
The sex that is talked about is way too perverted for me.
I read another goodreads' member's review of this book before I started it that said it seemed like the author just threw salacious stuff in as an afterthought with no relevance to the story - I have to agree for the most part.
A clever WWII story during a time when victory held in the balance between Axis and Allies.Rommel is ready to push east towards the Suez Canal, but he desperately needs fuel. A German undercover agent is the key to helping him acquire the necessary supplies, but a young woman stands in his way.Filled with romance, historical accuracy, and intrigue, Follett manages to write a story of when victory for the Allies was uncertain. If you're a fan of WWII thrillers, put this on your list.
The story revolves around a 'love triangle' between 'Wolff', a German spy and his lover, a famous 'Egyptian belly dancer'.
Opposing Wolff is captain 'Vadam', a British secretive agent who uses his entire unit to apprehend the German spy.
Follet uses an intricate machination to form a story that is densely filled with suspense, crazy 'chase' scenes and a a love triangle!
Follet strikes a big thumbs up with 'Key to Rebecca', and those familiar with his writing will see shear brilliance in the setting of an intense WW2 spy thriller!
The book has all the elements of a good action thriller: Compelling, well-drawn villain, sympathetic hero, interesting supporting characters (including one who's a bisexual, Nazi-collaborating seductress by day, night club belly dancer by night!), a decent amount of sex, and an exotic setting.
Unfortunately, the action over the last third of this book begins to resemble one of those old silent film series where an oily, caped villain, believing he's dispatched the pure-hearted but somewhat incompetent hero, has the damsel tied to a railroad track and twirls his mustache while a locomotive approaches.
Neste livro, e ao contrário do Noite Sobra As Águas, a acção começa logo nas primeiras páginas e prolonga-se durante toda a história de forma rítmica deixando completamente de lado partes mortas.Esta é uma história de espiões, mas não ao estilo, por exemplo, de Daniel Silva, uma vez que decorre no ano de 1942 e é espantoso perceber como se faziam as espionagens antes da era tecnológica.Wolff é o espião encarregado de descobrir os planos de ataque dos ingleses no deserto e para isso conta com a ajuda de uma conhecida bailarina da dança do ventre, mas o que ele não contava era encontrar o major Vandam que através de um pequeno erro alheio a Wolff começa a interminável caça ao espião.
(review in English below)Para mim foi uma desilusão (na verdade, é mais um 2,5 do que um 3).Nunca me senti envolvida na história, não gostei particularmente dos personagens nem apreciei a escrita. Lê-se bem, mas se calhar a espionagem não é para mim...This was a big let down for me (it's more like a 2.5, actually).I never felt involved in the story, I didn't particularly like the characters or the writing.It reads OK, maybe I'm just not into spy novels...
The first few pages were fantastic.
And then it just became a horrible book.
Spoilers ahead.
It relies heavily on stereotypes--the inscrutable Arabs, the highly sexualized "Oriental" women, the frigid, repressed British women...
The writing is stiff and overly expository.
The character emotional development happens in spurts and doesn't make a whole lot of sense.Which really just leaves plot.
The plot, over all, is the one good thing about this book.
However, a few key turns happen in a way that's unbelievable.
For instance, no matter how lustful, maniacal, twisted, egotistical Alex (the antagonist) is, I can't believe he'd take lust over sending information to the Germans that would win the war.
I love Cold War spy stories.
I've read a lot of them, and this is one of the good ones.
Having said that, I'm afraid it would be hard for me to recommend The Key to Rebecca to anyone I actually KNOW because of the insanely graphic sex scenes Follett felt the need to include.
Are they well written?
Well, yes they are--if you're looking for porn in novel form.
Certainly not to their graphic degree.
I'm not a prude (Outlander by Diana Gabaldon is unapologetically my favorite novel series), but this was just ridiculous.
Another excellent book, making the reader spin through all the action and strategy that evolves side by side with passion, sensuousness and a lot of historical background! Maria Carmo,Lisbon 23 August 2016.
Clearly not written with someone like me in mind as an audience.
Κατασκοπευτικό μυθιστόρημα για να περνά η ώρα.Περίμενα περισσότερα από τον Φόλετ.Με φόντο το Κάιρο του 1940 και το μαινόμενο πόλεμο των Εγγλέζων (που κατείχαν ήδη την Αίγυπτο) και των συμμάχων με τους Ναζί και τον Ρόμελ, ο συγγραφέας αποπειράται να μας ψυχαγωγήσει.Ένας ικανός κοσμοπολίτης μισός Άραβας και μισός Γερμανός κατάσκοπος από τη μια και ένας έξυπνος αξιωματικός του Αγγλικού Στρατού από την άλλη, καλούνται να αναμετρηθούν σε μια μάχη που κάποιες φορές θα γίνει σώμα με σώμα.Υποβοηθητικές φιγούρες, αναπόφευκτα γυναικείες, περιλαμβάνουν μια πανέμορφη χορεύτρια κοιλιάς και μια άρτι μετανοήσασα, επίσης πανέμορφη κοκοτίτσα.
Αρρενωποί και ωραίοι όλοι, αισθησιακές και πεντάμορφες όλες.
The incidents are based on some true events though the majority are fictional for thriller purpose.
It's based on the failed German operation Condor.
Follet is fond of details and that's why i am interested in reading as much as i can of his work.
Though it's obvious he made a remarkable effort in this novel trying to draw a picture for Cairo in the 40s, and some of his remarks were really smart, yet it's also obvious that his perspective to Egypt and Egyptians was rather colonial, which resulted many illogical behaviors and reactions in this story.
(Yeah, I require a little more variation.) I knew the story from seeing the movie, but I still wanted to read the book.
There was also a lot of 'he saw...blah blah blah,' or 'she looked at...blah, blah blah.' I wanted to reach out and hit the author on the head (gently) and say, yes, yes, there's a camel and there's a truck and there's a boat and we don't need to be constantly TOLD that he's seeing this or that.
There's also a scene where the British officer can't stop something going on because of want of a gun.Okay, no gun.
Follett seemed to be moderately researched in the World War Two Middle East, and overall the story was interesting.
However, there were a few problems I had with this book, which kept me from truly enjoying it.
I read Pillars of the Earth, and while I loved the story, it was completely ruined by Follett's writing style.
Not only that, but I've noticed that Follett has a habit of creating evil characters with strange and ugly sexual desires...to the point of where I wonder if his writing is some way to live out personal fetishes of his.As I said before, the book was entertaining enough.
"A Chave para Rebecca", de Ken FollettGosto de uma leitura absorvente e frenética, e não falhou.Segunda Guerra Mundial, no Cairo, espiões alemães e o Exército Inglês que quer defender a sua posição dominante contra os invasores alemães.A história tem dois protagonistas , um é o espião alemão, Alex Wolff, o outro é o major William Vandam, que o tenta descobrir e parar.
Só quando os dois se começam a aproximar para o confronto final é que eu tomei um partido....obviamente do Major!É a narrativa habitual no "tom" ligeiro de Ken Follett, com uma linguagem simples e muito directa.
I thought the Key to Rebecca was a disappointment.
I had heard good things of it and I think well of Ken follett.
But the scenario I found surprisingly similar to Eye of the Needle, just set in Egypt.
I liked the idea of the book Rebecca being used as a key to encrypted messages, but not much was made of this fact.
I was hoping that somehow the book Rebecca would have been incorporated into the Key to Rebecca.
But the spy could have used any other book and this novel would not have changed at all.
Ken Follet delivers another page turner.
Excellent thriller, highly recommended.
The story is set is in WWII Egypt with a cast of intriguing characters true to their time.
The villain is particularly well drawn in that he embodies the arrogance of the nazi, the feeling that morality is passe and the strong will take what they will.
Follet makes a case for true strength belonging to those with compassion and who are fighting for freedom rather than glory and debauchery.
This is the essence of WWII to me.
In this novel the theme motivates the characters without having to be stated.
Thought I read it before but turns out I didn't. At least I don't remember it and I think I would. Interesting German spy in Egypt giving Rommel the good poop on British dispositions. British major on his tail and the beautiful girls involved make for a fun and slightly sexy tale. The ending was pretty shlockey but most of the book was decent. I will leave it a 3 Stars, just barely.
The Key to Rebecca is a novel by the British author Ken Follett. Published in 1980, it was a best-seller that achieved popularity in the United Kingdom and worldwide. The code mentioned in the title is an intended throwback from Follett to Daphne du Maurier's famed suspense novel Rebecca.
An interesting story, makes me want to go look and see if I can find out the true story of why Rommel didn't take Cairo.
The first line sucked me in: "The last camel collapsed at noon." I wish I could write like that: six words and I know that the setting is the middle east, that it's almost certainly in the desert (why else talk about a camel collapsing?), that a journey is involved, and that somebody is in trouble.
Six words!
Something else that Follett masters in this World War II era novel is the manipulation of the reader's sense of alliance and empathy as the author switches back and forth between two major characters.
Trepidante novela de espionaje, ambientada en El Cairo, durante la II GM. La ciudad está ocupada por las tropas británicas, que tratan de evitar la conquista por parte de las tropas alemanas.Los protagonistas son de lo más tópico: oficial de inteligencia inglés, frío por fuera, ardiente por dentro, que actúa por su cuenta dado que sus superiores no lo toman en serio; espía alemán, malo malísismo; bailarina árabe, despectiva, traicionera; joven judía, dispuesta a todo para evitar la entrada de los alemanes. Pese a esto, la novela mantiene la intriga y la acción a lo largo de todas sus páginas.
