https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10576365-the-darkest-minds
The world is well-developed, well thought out, and honestly, the best thing about that series for me lies in Katniss' personality and strength of character (let's just forget Mockingjay ever happened *curls up into a ball and weeps*).The events in this book just plain don't make any damned sense.
There's no way hundreds of thousands of kids could just DIE out of nowhere and then some develop psychic powers!" No. Believing that that event could happen is a willing suspension of disbelief, one that every reader accepts.
Why the fuck is the government overreacting when they don't even know if these kids are dangerous?
THE DARKEST MINDS is one of the best books I have EVER read. No joke. I can't even properly express how much I love this book. It touched my soul--it's THAT incredible. It haunted me for days and days (and still does!). The world-building and plot are phenomenal (it leaves you absolutely breathless in spots!), and the characters are some of the most vivid I've encountered. When 2012 rolls around, DO NOT miss this book--it will stay with you long, long after you've finished reading it.
“They were never scared of the kids who might die, or the empty spaces they would leave behind. They were afraid of us-the ones who lived.” Ever since The Darkest Minds was released at the height of the dystopian craze in 2012, I think I've been subconsciously saving it to enjoy at a later date when the hype died down and I was no longer sick of reading YA dystopias. With an average rating of over 4.3, I was sure that I would enjoy it when I eventually gave in. But now, to be honest, I am cluel
Ruby is just ten years old when her powers surface and she is sent to Thurmond - a "rehabilitation" camp for the Psi kids.
I'm amazed I actually managed to struggle through those hundreds of pages in the middle, given that at least 200 pages could have been cut from The Darkest Minds and it still would have told the same story.And - not sure if this is considered a spoiler but just in case - (view spoiler)[the plot comes back to where we started before the road trip, anyway!
The plot moves at a good pace until 20%, then there's a road trip where very little happens beyond the romance, then in the last part of the book we end up back at the 20% point.
OH. MY. GOD. Ohmygodohmygodohmygodohmygod!!This book was so damn beautiful, so damn heartbreaking, and so damn freaking AMAZING! I think it's one of the most in-depth books I've read since  The Hunger Games  -- and I mean that with my heart and soul. It's not just another fluffy mock-intense book; it's not just another dystopian knock-off that I could never see happening in real life; it's not another sweet romance without anything else of substance that makes for a good time passer but doesn't
I can honestly say that it's probably one of the best written books I've ever read, not just this year!Alexandra Bracken not only doesn't treat her readers like they're stupid (because we DO have the capability to put two and two together, you know), but she also explores her world more as we go along.
All you need to know is that if you're stuck between deciding whether you should read this book or not, BUY IT.
MUST READ. FANTABULOUS BOOK. I just posted my booktalk ( http://youtu.be/90NS3uB8LxI ) which includes Review / Reaction / and Discussion on all the feelings it created.
Instead he had so many other important aspects in his life that he held dear to his heart, like his need to help others, or his loyalty to his friends, and included Ruby as one of those most important aspects, while still, somehow, managing to stay a swoon-worthy romantic love interest that totally blew Clancy off his mysteriously-creepy, yet very hot, ass.
I'll be looking at you, and my chest will get so tight...and it's like, the only thought in my head is how much I want to reach over and kiss you.” [image error]Ohh lordy...Now, I can go on for days listing everything good about him, but I’d probably need my own page or something or that.
That psychological angle would’ve at least given a point to all the child abuse (besides as cheap emotional manipulation), but I don’t think Bracken worked that distinction into the story until too late - until my impression of a camp run by sociopaths for housing sociopaths made me want to fling my copy of the book across the room.Then Ruby manages to escape, and for one glorious moment I thought my frustration would be over - but turns out...
ETA--For those confused about the title change: http://www.alexandrabracken.com/?p=1121Well, I like it a whole lot! Can't wait to hear what you guys think!
OH MY GOD THIS BOOK WAS SO BORING.I also felt like the world and all of the powers weren't explained very well, and you're constantly in the dark! It's ok to leave some things unanswered until later, but basic things should be explained early on, and I didn't feel like they were in this book.Highly disappointing.
He kept swiveling his head back and forth, like he expected someone to appear and guide him in the right direction with road flares and fanfare.Five minutes later, the map was spread over the steering wheel, and Chubs was gloating in the backseat.2) Liam.
I don't think I've ever read about a character like him.
Absolutely love him.3) Chubs, Zu, Ruby and all the other charactersI loved ALL of the characters in this book, even the bad guys (though you guys figure out who they are for yourselves.
I also really liked Ruby, our protagonist.
All of my friends seem to have read this series,and I have heard nothing but amazing things about it.Any feedback?
I JUST LOVE THIS BOOK SO MUCH.
MY HEART ACHESSSSSS FOR LIAM I NEED HIM IN MY LIFE.
Thank youuuu literary gods for making me love this book.I LOVE IT.Passenger is nooooooothing compared to this.I love everything about it.The writing I love it.
The powers are so awesome.The characters AHHHHH.Liam my sweet cinnamon roll I love you forever and always.CHUBS IS MY FAVORITE AND IS MY NEW FICTIONAL BESTFRIEND!!Zu i just want to wrap her in a blanket and keep her safe.
RUBY IS AWESOME AND THE CHARACTER GROWTH OMG.Clancy?
Weirdo.I JUST LOVE EVERYTHING AND I KNOW BOOK TWO WILL BREAK MY SOUL.Wow just WOW.
The Darkest Minds (The Darkest Minds #1) by Alexandra Bracken is one creepy, but good book!
Something happened to the kids when mistake happened.
A strange loud noise pierced the air and the ears of the kids.
Many kids died right away, others slowly, and others changed.
Some slowly, others quickly.
The government took all the kids to a brutal camp.
One of the camp "doctors" save her and got her out of the camp, but she knows this doctor is going to use her.
These kids have 'gifts' they use.
Very cool book!
I got this at the library.
"That girl was gone forever, and all that was left was a product of the place that had taught her to fear the bright things inside of her heart." For once I understand why a book has so much hype. So many books are overrated and others are so underrated. The Darkest Minds deserves the 4.28 average stars it has. It deserves much more than that. This book destroyed me and if I wasn’t in public when I was reading the ending I probably would have done more than tear up. I would have starting crying
This book destroyed me and if I wasn’t in public when I was reading the ending I probably would have done more than tear up.
I would have starting crying even though the ending wasn’t so so sad but I always cry in books.
This book was one of the best I've ever read.
I wasn’t that excited to read this book.
I've been utterly disappointed in the past when I read a book that is so popular but then I can’t fathom why.
I don't even have the proper worlds to express my love for this book.
Everyone needs to read this book because it is REMARKABLE!
LOVED THIS BOOK...
COULDNT GET ENOUGH MOVIE PLEASE UPDATE AFTER MY RE READI’m going to leave my original review and rating.
I originally read this book the first time in 2012.
Now all these years and books later my opinion has kind of changed.
I would say now I would give this book a 3.5.
Liam and chubs are still perfect.
The first half is kind of ehhhhh, but the second half I really liked.
The actors playing chubs and Liam really stood out.
I want a second film just for them.
however I don’t think we’ll be seeing a second or third film.
3 One of Us ★'s  “The Darkest Minds tend to hide behind the most unlikely faces.” Buddy read with NancyThis was my very first Alexandra Bracken book and I gotta say I didn't love it but I didn't necessarily hate it either. The writing could have been a lot better, I seemed like some of the sentences were unfinished as well. I kept waiting and waiting for more details that never came. I love the idea and premise of the world and the characters she has created, it just needs more work. The charact
I really wish Bracken would have taken more time explaining what the characters actually looked like.
I am looking forward to the movie though :) Also, I feel like there should have been a better classification on the powers each color could control and what it all entailed because as of right now I have a vague understanding.
I recommend this book to anyone who's looking for an easy read and if you don't mind all the missing details :) Even so, it's a good start and it could grow into something better.
I went into this book expecting some badass, kickass action scenes with a strong heroine, but what I got was a boring ass long as fuck road trip story with some dun dun dun.
When I think Dystopian, this is what comes to my mind:•Evil government•Some sort of plague/disease•Group of teens that must take down the government•SOME ACTION•Butt kicking female characters•Some good romanceSo I was expecting this book to be like extremely fucking epic, but it was a huge let-down.
Like about 80% of the story was just Ruby, Liam, Zu, and Chubs in some fucking car running away and shit.
I really enjoyed this book! It didn't necessarily blow me away, but it definitely held my attention.
*5 DARKEST STARS*Sobbing. That's all I can do right now. That ending was so heartbreaking I can't even get my thoughts straight. I'm still wondering why it took me so long to decide to read this absolute gem of a book. I would give this evey star in the galaxy if I could!I'm really sad I still haven't been able to get my hands on the sequel, since I really NEED to read how this continues asap!Full review coming soon!
“The Darkest Minds tend to hide behind the most unlikely faces.”  here I was thinking 2013 culture was dead and buried, but the darkest minds says hello i guessoh my god ?? I enjoyed this SO MUCH MORE than I thought I would. I mean I just think 2012 and 2013 was a dark time for YA lit and I barely like any series written around then jfdhgkjf but i had so much fun with this, honestly if the beginning was a bit better I probably would have given this a five star?? like it really was entertaining
“The Darkest Minds tend to hide behind the most unlikely faces.” 
here I was thinking 2013 culture was dead and buried, but the darkest minds says hello i guessoh my god ??
I mean I just think 2012 and 2013 was a dark time for YA lit and I barely like any series written around then jfdhgkjf but i had so much fun with this, honestly if the beginning was a bit better I probably would have given this a five star??
like it really was entertaining as and had some great characters and plot twists oooh boy !
4.5I can't even write a proper review for this book, oh my lord. I loved it. I loved Ruby, Liam, Chubs, Zu and Betty so much omg. I'm totally having grabby hands over the next book and all you need to know is I loved this book and I'm so happy it met every expectation I had.
Absolutely fantastic, it feels like its been a long time since I've read a book so good. The characters had depth, the story was engrossing and action packed, I honestly could not put this book down. Easily in my top for this year ALREADY.
Just sayin'.~Zu is the most adorable, precious, and underestimated thing ever!~Chubs broke my heart like 17 times~Ruby (MC) was pretty awesome~Also, the protagonist wasn't whiny.
at the beginning~Some parts in the middle dragged a bitThe things that I REALLY didn't like:~Martin: Just generally a creep before he even said a word~Clancey: Just generally a creep from the first sentence his slimy face spoke.~WHAT EVEN WAS THAT ENDING MY GOODNESS I AM NOT OKAY!!!!!!!!!!
(view spoiler)[WhY RUbY whY WOuLd yoU DO ThAt?!?!?!
I need 5 years to process this bye
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestThis book is called THE DARKEST MINDS but it could just as well be called THE X-HUNGERVERGENT GAMES, seeing as how it's a snapshot of everything that was trending in 2012. Set in the ambiguous "near-future," an idiopathic degenerative virus (idiopathic being medical jargon for "fuck if I know") has killed most of the United States' children. The ones who survive get neat, psychic powers. Rather than doing anything useful with these powers -
She had the foresight to trick her doctor into thinking she was one of the harmless super-intelligent kids when she saw that all of the Reds, Oranges, and Yellows were being sent away, but that is literally the only smart thing she does in the book.
Her sole quality, apart from her special and rare powers, is her hotness (which she doesn't even know she has), and which you will be reminded of repeatedly from all male characters, usually in uncomfortable and rapey ways.The rest of the cast is as by the numbers as the tropes of the plot.
I enjoyed this book!I love stories about people with special powers so this book was perfect. I had a few problems with this book, some due to the fact that I had to read it really slowly since I had limited free time this month. I didn't really enjoy any of the romance in this book which is upsetting for someone who loves romance and I didn't get very attached to any of the characters.
Come at me, bros; I'll fight you for Ruby Daly's honor.Owow ow owow ow ow ow owI don'tknow what to do with this bookand all of these feelings ow ow owObviously it's been too long since I last re-read Brightly Woven because I remembered that Alexandra Bracken was a good writer but I seem to have forgotten HOW good until this book punched me in the gut.God.How do I talk about this?I don't even know.
303 (side note: Ruby cries a lot, especially near the end, but considering what she's been through I think it's justified.)'Oh God, I couldn't even talk about it.
The children of America have been somehow mentally transformed and, from their early teens, begin to exhibit mysterious abilities that cause the adult population to create a series of rehabilitation centers, in an attempt to control them.
There is no preamble or explanation provided, and the reader has to assimilate to the high-action plot that emerges from the very first page.
I am glad I have the second book to hand as I am already clamoring to delve back into this insane and brilliant world and attempt to assuage my imagination!
“The Darkest Minds tend to hide behind the most unlikely faces.”I expected something better than this.
The Goodreads rating is incredibly high, so I was excited to finally be able to read it.
But it was a let-down: I found the Darkest Minds to be nothing special and even a little boring.
And it took so long until Ruby, Chub, Zu and Liam finally arrived at camp.Don't get me wrong, this was not a bad read.
Alexandra Bracken has great ideas and created some interesting characters but in the end I'm not even sure if I want to read the sequels.Find more of my books on Instagram
“Time to carpe the hell out of this diem.” Holy shit. What to do with my life now that I finished this beauty of a book? I am late to the party, as always, but better late than never. By a few years but I picked The Darkest Minds up because I've had enough of not having a clue about this "beautiful series" (like I also do with Delirium, The Raven Circle and Mara Dyer -- don't worry, you're next). Well let me tell you something: OHMYGOD THE FEELS. That pretty much sums up this book. And I'm sooo
There was another character (I'm not gonna say who it is if by some miracle I'm not the last human being on Earth to have not read this story) I found quite complex, but my black heart was broken a bit by "it" in the end; it wouldn't hurt to see some redemption in the next books regarding this character, I'd probably admire the author even more.
“It’s a minivan, not a Viking.”I'll be honest with you, for three quarters of the book I said I'll rate The Darkest Minds as a 4 stars read.
