https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22285.Rant
Because it WORKS; the plot-lines of his books are always ridiculous in a totally fascinating way, which makes up for the stupid characters.
So this book fails in the one arena that Palahniuk is totally capable of: being morbidly amusing.
I have mentioned pee, semen, and feces in this review of my DISLIKING of your stupid book.
Stop writing books, Palahniuk.
(I will take the pox off when you stop writing like a caricature of yourself and actually develop some substance rather than relying on shock-value and things that only a hipster dbag would find meaningful).
This book is a mish-mash of narrators, grossness, time travel, car crashes, a rabies plague, segregation and dull characters.
This story somewhat follows a dull-witted character named Buster or Rant (as he's better known) who gets off on catching rabies.
Somehow he has a superhuman sense of smell and can sniff out a soiled condom or tampon and know from whom it once belonged to.
Seriously.The book then rambles about with more people adding their two cents about mostly boring bits of Rant/Buster's life as he purposely infects himself with rabies and then spreads the infection all about.
I'm not a Chuck P fan simply because he is "edgy" or because I get off on the so-called depravity of his often violent and sexual themes.
Individually, these narrators are hopelessly unreliable, but taken together they form a whole picture that is more true than any single testimony could be.
(I'm a sucker for an unreliable narrator, so give me a couple dozen and I'm in heaven.)Some critics accuse the author of choosing gruesome subject matter for shock value, but (in this book, at least) I found the weaving of those violent themes to be compelling rather than repugnant.
Maybe if I knew it had an amazing ending I could have pushed through the last half, but after the first half of this book I realized I didn't care at all about Buster, or his story.
This book seemed to be over the top in grossness which seemed like he was relying on pure shock value.
The writing is still good, I just found the story lacking.I don't think I would recommend this book to anyone.I want to read another Chuck P.
book right away, so that this isn't the last experience in my mind...Not sure which one to move onto next, though.
It was fun to spend some time in a book that is focused and controlled and never rambled on for too long and each chapter title was explicitly clear as to the content therein.Why I Was Able to Like This Book Despite it Being Minimalist Plebeian GarbageThis is difficult to address head-on, so it might take a bit of set-up to get there.A Bit of Set-Up in Order to Explain Why I Was Able to Like This Book Despite it Being Minimalist Plebeian GarbageSome criticism I’ve gathered from what I’ve heard of Palahniuk is that his books are all the same and that he reuses the same trope in all his books: distention from society’s norms with a main character that is a mysterious, sexy figure that just doesn’t care about all us moralizing, materialistic “sheep” of society.
In a book that pulls on varied and important themes, Rant: An Oral History of Buster Casey manages to feature an exceptionally peculiar storyline that never stops at its primary goal: being a hell of a good time.
Pulling on the underused oral biography format, Palahniuk is able to fully flesh out a huge cast of characters and an immense story in a relatively quick read.
The novel is roughly divided into three acts, and each one plays on a different part of our main character's (Buster "Rant" Casey) life.
This is the story of a small town hell raiser named Buster ’Rant’ Casey who did some slightly unusual things when he was growing up like collecting bucketfuls of his classmate’s teeth.
After his spectacular fiery death, the government labels him a bio-terrorist who unleashed a deadly outbreak of rabies while others claim that Rant may have had a larger destiny than anyone can imagine.And that’s not even the weirdest or most twisted part of the story…This is my second favorite Chuck Palahniuk novel after Fight Club.
Like all of Chuck P.’s books, it’s disturbing and gory and gross and funny and definitely not for the faint of heart or easily offended.
Although it is science fiction and a pretty far departure on the whole from Chuck Palahniuk's previous books, it's not as far off from what I expect out of him as Diary.
It's very real and although it's not clear if it's 20 years down the road or 200, it's very believable which makes the book frightening to contemplate at times.
I very much loved how the past of Rant's childhood could have been the 1930s or the 1990s or any time until Bodie talks about plugging in.
It's not everyday you read a book about rabies, the origins of God, time travel, and bumper cars.
Seeing that this is a Chuck Palahniuk book, I shouldn't be surprised that this novel hops barriers and barrels through genres without a single fuck given for your comfort or confusion level.
Rant: An Oral Biography of Buster Casey is so fucking absurd that you will begin to think you are reading bizarro fiction.
You're still good, but not as good as RantFunny side note: I didn't finish this the first time I read it because it seemed like a book full of character interviews and I fucking hate that shit.
Or witnesses.”― Chuck Palahniuk, RantHE was close.
He just didn't close it at the end.
I imagine Palahniuk had Ballard's Crash and Benford's Timescape, several Oral Histories, and perhaps even Hofstadter's Gödel, Escher, Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid sitting on his shelf as he wrote this.
Palahniuk exists on an edge of grotesque, absurdity and social criticism that sometimes makes you lose sight of the shore.
Five major takeaways from this novel (which I might one day delve into deeper if I ever find myself with too much Liminal time or space in-between):1.
Party Crashing + Night & Day5.
Here's why I like that movie so much:--Because it takes a profoundly original and compelling idea and makes you think it's going to be the theme of the entire project, just to later prove that it was actually a ruse to hide an even more profoundly original and compelling idea as its real theme.--Because it unmasks the simmering hatred of the modern world so many young intellectuals have these days, this incessant desire to do something, anything, to break out of the usual corporate-manufactured, safely lobotomized, "synergetic cultural experience."--And because the story pulls off such heady things through a slim, minimalist personal style, which much like Vonnegut attempts to use the least words possible to convey the greatest amount of information possible.And thus do we come to Palahniuk's latest novel, Rant: An Oral Biography of Buster Casey, which just randomly happens to be my first book of his simply because of opening CCLaP this particular year.
(like my recent blah blah blah ramblings about fighting are much of an improvement), anyway back to the review where I just gave an amount of time, and I'm sure you are waiting anxiously to find out what it's been eleven years (or ten years and 11 months) since....) since I read a Chuck Palahniuk book that I could say I really enjoyed.
This is the link: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uUZf24..., there is no excuse not to do it, it's a great fucking song and if you're deaf than guess what you don't get to hear a great fucking song, but most likely this isn't the first great fucking song you didn't get to hear in your life, but since I'm a sensitive person I'll let you know that you can read the lyrics here: http://www.lyricsmania.com/weird_on_t....
In fact, don't read any book by Palahniuk expecting Fight Club but Fight Club.
Sure, some of the stuff in the book is a little gross, but is that really a reason to give it a bad review?
If you don't like gross stuff in your fiction, don't read ANYTHING by this author.
You don't have to read this book, or watch television.
That said, I reccomend this book to anyone who likes to see a great author stretching his arms and experimenting a bit.
Half-assed?I am a big fan of Palahniuk.
And what is worse is that the book is written in an oral history fashion that at it's best is merely distracting.
I was hoping he was going to shine his penetrating insight on that and finally explain the fascination.
It was a fascinating read.
'Rant' was not.I honestly can't recommend this book to anyone except die-hard Chuck Palahniuk fans.
And to them I only recommend it in the hopes that someone who gets it can explain it to me.
5 starsThis is one rural, delirium-clouded shadow of southern sci-fi insanity! Imagine if Philip K Dick grew up in rural Alabama....and THEN became insane and a writer at the same time...this would be your result!If you like your sci-fi southern fried, with a side of fucked-up sauce...this is for you!Like Manson and Stephen Hawking decided to tackle a Mad-Libs together to form a story!Highly recommended!5 stars
Il modo in cui è scritto è incredibile, non c’è un protagonista di cui percepiamo i pensieri e osserviamo le azioni , tutte le persone che incontriamo durante la lettura parlano del protagonista , Buster Casey detto “Rant “ .
Persone scompariranno per apparire in altri momenti , viaggeranno nel tempo ed assieme ad altre sottotrame fanno tutte parte del complesso libro di Palahniuk.
Qui c’è il suo genio il suo leitmotiv ricorrente .
Un libro difficile da digerire una critica al mondo sbattuta in faccia al lettore in modo crudele e con la sua tagliente verità .
Chuck, you and  Lauren Groff need to have a word.) Rant, presented in the style of an oral history, is not only quite different in its telling from Palahniuk’s previous books, it’s different from anything I’ve read in a long while.
Unfortunately, that kind of thing was rather more tantalizing to me when I was in high school.However, like I said, I really did feel like Palahniuk was stretching himself a bit here; he’s got a sort of interesting time travel plot going on, and I actually really liked the characters of Shot and Echo, and the idea of the dystopian Daytimer/Nighttimer future society.
What an amazing Clusterfuck.
So far I've enjoyed everything from Chuck Palahniuk I've come into contact with, though fellow readers have warned me to stick to his earlier, and supposedly better, books (people don't seem to have much good to say about his last several offerings).
Well, I took their advice and dove into RANT, a novel that many have raved about.
I will say this however: like the other stuff I've read by Chuck, RANT is a bit of everything.
This novel evoked all kinds of reactions and emotions from me; a rollercoaster reading experience.
3.5Is he the protagonist, or the antagonist? Good question about our Mr. Buster Casey, also known as 'Rant' which is also a pretty good description of this story. I mean, this thing is all over the place. To figure it out you might have to partake in some time traveling and still you'd be left with filtering facts from rabid infested party crashers with gold coins in their pockets and Christmas trees tied to the roofs of their cars. Still confused? You should be. After all, this is classic Palahniuk and with him, confusion can be a very entertaining experience.
Then I got angry.I enjoyed the pacing during the middle part that was mostly chronicling the party crashing, appreciating where he'd pulled inspiration- secret raves, art car culture, cruising culture, etc.
All of that, including the early history of Rant, was finely crafted storytelling.However.I lost my enthusiasm when he pulled out the Chuck trick.
Which only makes it- the trick- more convoluted to the good story line he's got going.
Once it happens I can't trust his storytelling and I read the rest of the book because I've committed a lot so far, but there's the pattern that I finish a Chuck book, at least the last quarter, very pissed off.
wow .. and can't really even begin to comment on this . Complete mindblower with a really sadistic and twisted view of our society ! Loved it !
Literary speaking...
holy s***, Chuck Palahniuk!
literary speaking:'This is an addiction!'.
If you are still alive and you are reading this right now (I do not care how many stars you'll give this book in the end, how wrong I might be in thinking that you will adore it or how short this review is) read this book, like really!
REALLY!P.S: I am kind of ashamed of my short review but some books are better left untold, but explored.
If I put a word more about it, it will be like stealing a dose of your LSD...
La cosa peggiore che un uomo può fare è abbandonarsi a se stesso.Rant aveva capito che la realtà uno poteva costruirsela.
E se la realtà non fosse altro che una malattia?".Ti sei mai trovato intrappolato in un mondo dove sei l'incubo peggiore di tutti quelli che ci vivono?L'argomento principale che viene sollevato contro la possibilità del viaggio temporale è quello che i teorici definiscono "paradosso del nonno", vale a dire l'idea che se una persona potesse tornare indietro nel tempo potrebbe uccidere uno dei suoi antenati, eliminando quindi la sua possibilità di nascere e di tornare nel passato a commettere l'omicidio.In un mondo dove miliardi di persone credono che il loro dio abbia concepito un figlio mortale con una vergine umana, è incredibile quanta poca immaginazione dimostri la maggior parte della gente.
Il libro si presenta sotto forma di una biografia orale (e allo stesso tempo corale); un'intervista ad amici\conoscenti\nemici\parenti, insomma si darà la parola a tutti coloro che hanno avuto un qualunque tipo di rapporto con Rant, un personaggio strano e sfuggente, dal passato a dir poco singolare che ricostruiremo - quasi come si trattasse di un puzzle, pezzo dopo pezzo - dalle parole altrui.
Wanna sit next to me?" and we went sharking through Spokane one street and the next, and the next with about six or seven people (three up front, four in the back?) blaring, at Lady Dave's request, an 8-track of Bing Crosby's Greatest Hits and Chella ended up flirting with a carload of boys and, finally, we all ended up at Denny's at 2 in the morning, fixing the local sports commentator's car (he didn't know how to change a tire, but between Carlos, Me, and Sean, we got it done), eating pie, drinking coffee, and watching Chella get uncomfortable around this new guy and, generally, probably, making the guy second-guess what was wrong with this chick that her friends were such an Addam's Family *snap-snap*.
Chuck Palahniuk keeps disappointing me.
Pros: I liked the way he told the story.
It was odd, but I liked it.
Cons: Everything else.
There are some dark, sick and disturbing images described (which are to be expected since it is a Palahniuk book) but some stuff made me uncomfortable even reading.
By the end of this book I was so thoroughly confused that I re-read it.
It was clever but it seemed kind of pointless.
By the last page you're not sure of anything and annoyed that you spent so much time trying to figure out what the hell he was talking about.
“History is nothing except monsters or victims. Or witnesses.”― Chuck Palahniuk, RantBesmisao života u svom punom sjaju.
OMG CHUCK DID IT AGAIN!! Through a whole of witnesses, you have to glue the pieces together to understand.. and then comes the ending and you're completely MINDBLOWN. Taboos, disgusting elements and the magic of dark humor, you'll find another book worth of Chuck's name.
Perpetuation the fallacy that the journey itself is of little value.""Hidden inside that hard, polished paint and glass is another person just as soft and scared as you.""There's worse ways to be dead than dying.""What if reality is nothing but some disease.""No matter what happens, it's always now...I think what Rant meant was, we live in the present moment of reality, and no matter what's come before, no matter how much we loved a person or a dog, when it attacks us we'll react to that moment of danger.""Everyone wants to feel special-attain a special status among their peers-but not too special.
