https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13928.Daughter_of_the_Forest
WHY is it okay to be descriptive of rape in books and to actually give a full account of what happens (or at least, close to) but loving, consensual, normal sex is not okay.
Why does sex go in the romance section and the rape get to stay out of the shelves for us to read?And the casual, dismissive attitude by the Fairy characters of this book made me furious."You are not the first woman of your race to be abused thus by men, nor will you be the last."So...
Now let's crack on with a short review 😊So Sorcha was not born the seventh son.
Right before all of this though, she helps one of her brothers free a Briton captive named Simon.
Sorcha helps in his healing process until all of the curse stuff happens and she has to run away.
Anyhoo, they whisk her away to Briton and she has to face more ordeals while still working on breaking the curse and getting her brothers back.
A bunch of stuff happens, the curse is mostly broken and we have a mostly happy ending Either way, I enjoyed it and will be continuing on with the books!
Reviewed by: Rabid Reads4.5 starsEverything I could tell you about Daughter of the Forest by Juliet Marillier can be summed up in a single paragraph from the story itself: If I were telling this tale, and it were not my own, I would give it a neat, satisfying ending . . . In such stories, there are no loose ends. There are no unraveled edges and crooked threads. Daughters do not give their hearts to the enemy. The wicked do not simply disappear, taking with them the satisfaction of vengeance. Yo
Reviewed by: Rabid Reads4.5 starsEverything I could tell you about Daughter of the Forest by Juliet Marillier can be summed up in a single paragraph from the story itself:
Daughter of the Forest may have a happy ending, but is not a happy tale.
Finbar said that was because we reminded Father of our mother, who had died.
All b/c of this book.If it wasn't for an ugly rape scene, Daughter of the Forest would have been my second 5.0 star read in over a year, so if you absolutely cannot handle that sort of thing, you have been duly warned.
It’s been some time since I’ve had the pleasure of reading a book so deserving of five stars.Sorcha, daughter of the forest, tells her own tale in this book about an ancient Celtic/British feud and the magical undertones that influence it.
They grow up surrounded by the spirits and fae of the forest, who entangle Sorcha’s fate with two brothers, part of the enemy side.There is something truly alive about Sorcha’s character and her voice as she recounts the horrible suffering and passionate love she experiences.
And it's not a lighthearted retelling, but turned into a beautiful story at the end!I absolutely loved all of the characters and how close the siblings were.
That was one of Juliet Marillier's strongest relationships yet for sure.I wasn't a huge fan of how the violence and horrible treatment Sorcha endured from men was laid out in such detail and went on foreverrrr, but the positive relationship was more of a blip at the end.
The story was painful to read at times and felt like a task to endure (so I just want to throw that rape trigger warning out there).

This holds true for the heroine, Sorcha, as well as for the other characters in the story.
No matter what she accomplishes, in the end, her life and that of all the characters is permanently changed--and sometimes that change comes in the form of wounds that will never truly heal.
Juliet Marillier, instead, expanded the tale by retaining its literal structure and all its fantastic details, while also focusing her attention on the human story within the magical frame.
It is the kind of love story that sneaks up on the characters.
4.7 starsAside from a couple of minor qualms, Daughter of the Forest is pretty much an example of an almost perfect debut novel.This book is a beautiful retelling of the Celtic "Swans" myth, which has been familiar to me since childhood through the Hans Christian Andersen's version - The Wild Swans.
I loved the story and there are some intriguing loose ends left unresolved and therefore I am pretty certain I will read the second book in the series - Son of the Shadows, but I definitely need some time to regroup, because it's even longer than Daughter of the Forest.
A time when the realm of Fae was just a wrong turn away and you could easily be caught up in one of their schemes and games.The magic of the story isn’t overpowering it feels natural and like it is meant to be there instead of forced.
I connected with Sorcha right away and saw how she grew from an innocent giving child who knew nothing about the true dangers of the world into a resilient young woman who sacrificed much of her childhood to save the brothers that she was so close to.When Sorcha started her task she was but a child still and even though she knew a lot about healing, she really didn’t understand how long it would take her to complete her task or any of the other obstacles that would get in the way of that.
If Juliet Marillier hadn't already made a fan out of me with Heart's Blood, then I'd be tripping over myself to fall at her feet for truly, this book is remarkable.Daughter of the Forest is known to be one of the best fantasy novels out there, but it's hard to believe just how good it is until you read it.
Thus, despite the seemingly amazing feats she manages to achieve, Marillier weaves this tale in such a way that she is able to convey that each and every one of these ordeals is possible to overcome, just as anything is with the right dose of love, faith, and perseverance.Nevertheless, one of my favorite aspects of this novel is, hands-down, the romance.
In this book, you start out seeing the Irish side, but Sorcha's brother Fimbar has always looked at the issue of warring cultures as a construct that falsely divides people who are at their heart just humans.
As this story progresses, and I met Simon, a Briton who was captured and cruelly tortured by Lord Colum's forces (and liberated and healed by Sorcha and a kindly Christian priest that dwells on their lands); and later meeting Lord Hugh, who saves Sorcha's life and protects on her dangerous mission to save her bothers,and his people--I could see that there was good and bad on both sides.
It is not an easy tale but, oh, a beautiful one.The fairy tale is known, and so I am not spoiling anything by telling you that Daughter of the Forest tells us a story of Sorcha, the youngest child of the Lord of Sevenwaters whose father is bewitched by and then married to the evil sorceress who changes Sorcha’s six older brothers into swans.
(By the by, the forest is a living creature in its own right and much better than the one attempted in Uprooted).There are six brothers: solemn Liam, the oldest, a leader; sunny Diarmid - the hot-headed warrior; Conor and Cormack, twins like mirror images but, oh, so very different!
It has all the elements of a fairy tale – the evil stepmother, a fairy godmother (sort of), an enchantment, an impossible task to accomplish, a prince charming, and a happily ever after.This has to be my all time favorite book now.
Such love brings her much angst and suffering, yet she endures.For most of the story, Sorcha endures an impossible task to free her brothers from an enchantment.
At one point she must leave her lands and is found by a Briton, Red. Red rescues Sorcha from nearly drowning and brings her back to his home.I loved Sorcha’s character.

No RatingI cannot fairly rate this book so I'm going to leave it as it is. I was originally attracted by the high ratings and positive reviews but I discovered early on that, for whatever reason, this book simply isn't for me. I couldn't appreciate the story enough to read on and that is why I won't insult it by giving the kind of low rating I usually give to abandoned books. In this instance, it was definitely me and not the story or writing.
- When the line between reality and fiction begins to blur, so that you could be sitting on a sunny balcony off a busy street, and still feel like you are in the cool, dark confines of the ancient Irish forests.
A lot of the story-telling in this book reminded me of the rhythm and style of Cecilia Dart-Thornton's Bitterbynde Trilogy.
And this is where truly great story-telling lies, in the ability to divorce you from reality, so that you can't think about whether you love or hate a character, because you are practically one entity.
What a fabulous start to what I hope is going to be a 5 star series. One of my favorite books so far this year!
Trigger Warning: Sexual AssaultIt was very difficult for me to give this book a star rating.
First off, I want to say that I enjoyed this story a lot and found it very enchanting.
I really enjoyed the writing and I thought the cast of characters was very intriguing and really pulled you in to the story.
I did listen to the audio book which helps for the slower sections.I took off a star because I had some major problems from a feminist point of view.
If you have read the book, I completely agree with this post which CONTAINS MAJOR SPOILERS.
Yet I question that classification, as there's a  graphically adult scene (disturbing) as explained in spoiler further below.Major spoilers are tagged and hidden: Daughter of the Forest  is an über-extended take on The Six Swans, set in medieval Ireland, when Druidic and Christian cultures first started to overlap.Sorcha of Sevenwaters is about 16 years old when the story ENDS.
I felt myself sinking into the magical, misty isles...YA & romance classification:  This is often classified as a romance, but it has very little romance in it, given that Sorcha (view spoiler)[ doesn't meet Red (Lord Hugh) till midway through the book, and then he goes away on a voyage for a long time.
It’s up to Sorcha to lift the spell, but she has to undertake a long and difficult quest thrust upon her by the Fae to do so, all the while remaining silent until she completes it.To those familiar with their fairy tales, this is of course a retelling of The Six Swans, one of the stories collected by the Brothers Grimm.
Daughter of the Forest, a fantasy novel at its heart, does a love story even better than some Romance novels out there, without even seeming to try.There aren’t too many faults I can pick out here, other than some minor issues I had with the overprotectiveness of Sorcha’s brothers, especially towards the end.
The story of Sorcha and her trials as she works to free her six brothers from enchantment is painful and gut wrenching.
While it doesn't all result in a traditional fairy tale ending, the story does deliver what feels right and more true to our own experiences.
No one can live through what Sorcha and her brothers do without being irrevocably changed.Marillier's writing is perfect as usual, and her characters are lifelike and filled with emotion.
This book delivers both heartbreak and joy, and not in equal measure, but the joy is all the more satisfying for it having been so hard won.
A mix of folklore and fantasy, historical fiction and romance, Daughter of the Forest is the first of a trilogy (of 6 books, it seems).
It follows Sorcha, seventh daughter and only child of Lord Collum, as she suffers to rid her six brothers of a curse bestowed on them by the Lady Oonagh.
Set in old Ireland and Britain, the story spans several years.I would recommend this book to anyone who loves folklore, fairies, historical romances, and more than a healthy dose of misery (this is the first book I've really cried over in a long time).
Start at the part where Red finds her(maybe start somewhere in the middle and work your way back to it) and end when Red is finished with his story he tells at the end of the book.
You might want to skip some of his dialog towards end to our heroine--don't remember how bad it got, but you knew where is thoughts were going.I do not recommend any of the other books in this series.
To me, the heroes where so flawed that they disappointed me, not to mention that there is "content" in those books as well.
From what I could tell this happened in the series, but like I said, I only skimmed.
I would not recommend it, especially to young adults. The story was beautifully woven and the writing is very engrossing, but there is graphic description of abuse that did not strengthen the book and was very unnecessary. It pretty much ruined the book for me.
Altho this is a hefty book it didn't seem to matter, I was transported in one swoop to Sorchas home Sevenwaters in Ireland to a land filled with greenery and trees and magic and then when a twist in her story takes her to England to a place filled with greenery and trees and evil from which Sorcha requires protection.
Her story takes some marvellous and sometimes gripping and sometimes sad twists and turns and for one so young her burdens were many (as is so in fairy tales and stories of Myth and Legend) but she was oh so strong and brave and committed to her path and despite being sometimes insecure and emotionally out of her depth she did remarkably well.
RE-READ: December 20175/5 stars   “You will find the way, daughter of the forest. Through grief and pain, through many trials, through betrayal and loss, your feet will walk a straight path.”  I cannot even begin to explain how much I love this book. It is definitely one of my all time favourite books, and may even take out that top spot. I remember absolutely adoring this book the first time I read it, but all the emotions have come rushing back to me this time. I am overwhelmed with how downri
I remember absolutely adoring this book the first time I read it, but all the emotions have come rushing back to me this time.
The relationship that Sorcha had with her brothers was beautiful and well structured, I felt as if I was apart of the family just by reading the story.
The love that Sorcha had for her family practically flowed from every word.
She grew so much in the novel and developed throughout the story to become someone quite inspirational.I also loved the romance side of the book.
In Daughter Of The Forest, Red did not try to fix Sorcha but rather helped her through her journey.
I have three words to describe this book.... beautiful, heartbreaking and enchanting!    Okay maybe four words if you count and... This book is something special and it has made its way to my "favorite books ever" shelf! If this is a book you're interested in then stop right now and read it. It's that good. Juliet Marillier is an amazing writer and this will be a book that I will never forget. She creates amazing imagery through her writing and you'll find yourself swept off to another land in n
If this is a book you're interested in then stop right now and read it.
Lady Oonagh placed a spell on more than just Lord Colum and it's up to Sorcha to make it all right again.
It did take me a bit to get completely absorbed into the story, but once I was, there was no going back.My favorite characters in no particular order were: Sorcha (of course), Finbar, Simon and Red. I'm moving on to the next book because I must know more about this world and these characters.
I can't stress this enough...If you like this genre then read the book!
I went from  to this, to this, to this, There are books that you take little sips from then are those you devour… this a little bit of both. It’s intricately told with a cast of characters each as nuanced as the other that I couldn’t help but get drawn in. That it’s lengthy is of no issue, in fact, I loved that aspect of it. Particularly since it allowed the reveal of who was close to whom and which sibling had what role. But this is mainly about Sorcha though, youngest of the seven among whom
That it’s lengthy is of no issue, in fact, I loved that aspect of it.
But this is mainly about Sorcha though, youngest of the seven among whom she’s a special place.
It’s not as if she’s allowed to run wild, for there’s a discipline to them as is repeatedly pointed out.
The dynamic among them was something that kept me reading because it was the fact that they were always certain of a place with the other, allowed me to breathe through some other parts that were excruciating.
I am a great lover of fantasy but I am discovering that I prefer my fantasy books to be original and not based on fairy tales.
(One notable exception being Cinder and its sequels).
Fairy tales are known for their cruelty and hardship and Daughter of the Forest is quite relentless in this respect.
It may be that the book was just a bit too long and Sorcha's tedious task seemed to take forever.
However I was uncomfortable with several of the scenes and wished they had not occurred.
