https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121648.Five_Little_Pigs
The best thing that can be said about this book is that you get a lot of Poirot.
He is present in almost every page where there are no notes that had been written by the characters.
We are privy to his thoughts.Not only that, but the Poirot we see is almost human.
He is normal, foreign, but normal.
Despite that, I gave the book 3 stars.Oh, the story is cleverly written.
But we get the same multiple accounts of the one event, that of murder of Amyas Crale.
The murderer for once looks to have escaped the law.
Deceived again! Well played, Christie. Well played.
Mr Jonathan had called her a stormy, turbulent creature.How would he, Hercule Poirot, have seen her?On the answer to that question depended, he felt, the success of his quest.So far, not one of the people he had seen had doubted that whatever else she was, Caroline Crale was also a murderess.”A young woman visits Poirot & requests him to investigate an intriguing and challenging murder case: her mother was convicted of poisoning her father 16 years ago, but on her deathbed she wrote her daughter a letter, claiming she was innocent.
Five people with totally different personalities and background, but seemingly without motive for the murder.
Interesting reveal and impossible for me to guess the actual villain since clues could have pointed in multiple directions.This is one of those mysteries where the crime is solved more by studying the psychological of the characters and what turns out plausible because of that, instead of following actual evidence and “clues”.
There are some of those that help point the sign in the right direction, but it comes down to understanding and studying people in the end, as Poirot often says.
I know she uses staple characters but I found the governess hatred of men to be taken to an even higher level than usual.
This is one of my personal favorites and this time it was actually a re-read for me.I've read Five Little Pigs for the first time about 7 years ago, and now that I have picked it up for the second time all I could remember was that I liked it a lot.
The whole book is comprised of him talking to people who were present at a murder scene - trying to get to the truth of what really happened that day.Boring?
Agatha Christie did a great job on this novel - weaving a story of hints and small details, leading the reader on and on, until the very end.
Carla Lemarchant gets a letter from her mother Caroline, who has died in prison while serving her sentence for murdering her husband, the philandering artist Amyas Crale- a letter professing her innocence.
So young Carla has to go back in time to find the real murderer - and who to employ, other than Hercule Poirot?There are five suspects (the five little pigs of the title) - Philip and Meredith Blake, Amyas's neighbours; Elsa Greer, the young girl Amyas is painting (and making love to); Angela Warren, Caroline's disfigured teenage stepsister; and her governess.
And that person asks Poirot to look into it.
In play form, this quicky still manages a modicum of depth within the story and characters, not a trait mysteries are always well-known for!
The woman-scorned premise is a trifle basic, but only so much as the characters themselves falsely believe.
It actually has a nice twist to it.I could do without the usual and ad nauseam admission-by-the-perp ending.
It's a laughable tool of expedience, which I should be thankful for (because nobody really wants to read a boring trial with an inevitable ending, do they?) and yet it never ceases to inadvertently assume me.
Readathon 2017 16/26 Ένα βιβλίο που δανειστήκατεΈχοντας φύγει για διακοπές με μόνο ένα έντυπο βιβλίο αλλά με πολλά ebooks στο κινητό πίστευα ότι στις 10 μέρες που θα έλειπα θα είχα πάντα κάτι να διαβάζω....Έχοντας φύγει όμως με ένα βιβλίο και χωρίς τον φορτιστή μου ...
Με το που ξεκίνησε την αφήγηση η Καρλα και με το που άρχισε ο Πουαρό να εξερευνεί περισσότερο την υπόθεση καταλαβαίνεις ότι η ιστορία έχει περισσότερο ζουμί.Παρόλο το γύρω γύρω όλοι που κάναν τα «γουρουνάκια»… κατάφερε να καταλάβει τι έγινε 16 χρόνια πριν.Η Αγκάθα εδώ παίζει με την οπτική αντίληψη των μαρτύρων κάτι το οποίο είναι γνωστό και ειδικά σε θέματα εγκλημάτων.
4,5/5Me ha gustado mucho y se ha convertido en mi favorito de la autora junto a Diez Negritos. Que bien se te daba jugar con los lectores/as , Agatha <3Reseña completa:-Wordpress: https://suenosentreletras.wordpress.c...-Blogger: http://addicionaloslibros.blogspot.co...
One of the best Poirot mysteries ever.
Listening to this BBC adaptation was sheer joy, and I never knew how my jogging time flew past with Poirot and co.
Carla hires Poirot as she believes her mother, who was imprisoned for her father's death by poisoning, and who subsequently died in prison, is innocent, and wants him to prove so.
Pour it agrees, provided that he will not tamper with the truth, if the truth is that Caroline, the mother is the actual murderer.Here enter the five little pigs (actually the 5 now aged suspects who were there the fatal day.)What ensues is a tale of passion, lechery, deceit, anger, selfishness and tragedy.
πανέξυπνο! τα απλά επαγωγικά συμπεράσματα με ενθουσίασαν!
The ending is just exhilarating and was as smashing as Iron Man soaring into a Malibu Point Sky. Mr. Poirot, my heart is still with Sherlock but you are as brilliant as Him!! What a reasoning! I bow to thee
She’s convinced that the convicted murderer, her mother, is innocent of her father’s murder, based on a letter from her mother, assuring her daughter of her innocence.Poirot, naturally, uses his psychological approach, flattering the players in the old drama, playing up his foreignness when necessary to get the Brits to feel superior and magnanimously go through their memories of the time in question.I enjoyed this case, despite the, at times, choking amounts of misogyny shown by all the players to justify their feelings about the woman and victim.
I figured out a few of the clues, but Christie got me this time; I did not figure out who the murderer was.
But, oh, did she?One interesting angle in the book (in addition to the important painting) is that the case is 16 years old.
Poirot (improbably) gets all five of these folks to write their memories of the case, so of course they are all different, and flawed, because of their various investments in the situation and limitations on their perspectives.
What makes this story different is that the murder took place sixteen years ago.Carla Lemarchant has come to Hercule Poirot to ask for his help.
Sixteen years ago her mother, Caroline Crale, was convicted of murdering her husband, Amyas Crale, a well known artist.
“I am the best!”The murder took place at the home of Amyas and Caroline Crale.
There were five other suspects there that day.Philip Blake (stockbroker) who went to market; Meredith Blake (amateur herbalist) who stayed at home; Elsa Greer (three-time divorcee) who had roast beef; Cecilia Williams (devoted governess) who had none; and Angela Warren (the disfigured sister) who cried ‘wee wee wee’ all the way home.Poirot first interviews the lawyers for the defense and prosecution as well as the police superintendent.
For the non-baseball folks and my friends from across the pond who don't watch baseball (some do) and may not know him other than by name, Rivera is the closer for the New York Yankees and he is the best closer in the history of the game.
More people have walked on the moon (12) than men who have scored against Mariano Rivera in the postseason (11).Agatha Christie has her stats too.
Just like Rivera would never attempt to pitch a complete game, Agatha Christie never attempted to write a literary classic.
4.5*“Ah, but my dear sir, the why must never be obvious.
That is the whole point.”Another murder mystery in the past that Poirot has to entangle.
And off goes our famous, moustachioed, Belgian detective, exercising his grey little cells and visiting people that were present during the events pertaining to the murder of Amyas Crale.
We end up getting several versions of the same scenes, each just a little different.
This may not be to everyone’s taste but I loved it, trying to do my own investigation, finding out who was lying, what really happened, often on the turn of one word!
Opinião em vídeo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3kpiD...
Mr Jonathan had called her a stormy, turbulent creature.How would he, Hercule Poirot, have seen her?On the answer to that question depended, he felt, the success of his quest.So far, not one of the people he had seen had doubted that whatever else she was, Caroline Crale was also a murderess.”A young woman visits Poirot & requests him to investigate an intriguing and challenging murder case: her mother was convicted of poisoning her father 16 years ago, but on her deathbed she wrote her daughter a letter, claiming she was innocent.
Five people with totally different personalities and background, but seemingly without motive for the murder.
مر على الحادثة ستة عشر عامًا، اتهمت زوجته بقتله عن طريق السم بسبب غيرتها المفرطة، لأنه كان زير نساء وعلى شك الزواج بفتاة جميلة كان مهووس يرسمها.
قبل أن تتوفي فس السجن، تركت رسالة لإبنتها تصرح فيها بأنها بريئةهكذا تطلب الإبنة من المحقق بوارو التحقيق في هذه القضية ليعود إلى الماضي ويبدأ تحقيقه المثير للاعجاب الجميل في الكتاب هي الحوارات الذكية وتركيز المحقق على تحليل الشخصيات بالإضافة لبعض الإقتباسات الجميلة وهذه صفحاتهاإقتباسات جميلة 9.
"معظم الناس قد يفعلون أفعالًا مستحيلة أحيانًا، إلى أشياء لا تتفق مع شخصياتهم، لكن هذه الأفعال -لو عرفتهم عن قرب- لن تكون بعيدة عن شخصياتهم" 177.
I read Five Little Pigs years ago and hated it!
However, personal prejudice aside, I have to admit that this is an absolute tour de force of the mystery writer's craft, and only the Queen of Crime could have pulled it off.Christie loved to write cold cases, and this is a prime example--the alternate title is Murder in Retrospect.
Christie also liked to include a nursery rhyme motif, for irony or general creepiness, and the "five little pigs" rhyme fits quite well with the suspects here.Speaking of pigs, on re-reading I still consider Amyas a swine.
the stock market ) is veddy aristocratic and narrow-minded - a wonderful satirical presentation of British snobbery and excess; Meredith Blake is the piggy who stayed home – and played with herbs and poisons; Elsa Greer is the piggy who at roast beef (she’s a sexy gluttonous, libidinous type – good to spice up the mystery; Miss Williams is a dyed-in-the-wool straight-jacket governess, right out of any good Victorian suspense novel (the pig who had none); and finally Angela is the little pig who cried wee-wee-wee – she’s a teenager with a disfigured face and cause for lamentation.The Five little pigs are a great bunch of suspects.
And Hercure Poirot's Five little pigs is a quick read and a good mystery.
The BBC adaptation audiobook made it easier.A 16 year old crime has to be explained since the daughter of the accused wants to know the truth.
With 6 possible suspects who had the opportunity and only the accused with a motive, Poirot reconstructs the crime.
He takes 5 stories that are full of inconsistencies of facts and gets at the truth.
I don't know why it's Five little pigs or relate the ditty.A novel for a train ride..
আরেকবার ঘোল খাইয়ে দিল মহিলা! সারাটা বই যখন হিসেব মেলাতে-মেলাতে সুনদর করে একটা কনকলুশনে চলে আসছি, ঠিক তখনই পাশার দান গেল ঘুরে। অথচ হিসেব আমার ঠিকই ছিল--ছোটট একটা জিনিস চোখ এড়িয়ে যাওয়াতে ধোঁকা খেয়ে গেলাম।মসৃণ, আগরহোদদীপক একটা সূচনার পর মাঝখানে গিয়ে মনে হচছিল একটু যেন পুনরাবৃততি চলে আসছে। সেজনযে একটু ধীর হয়ে গিয়েছিল পড়ার গতি। কিনতু সেই পাঁচটা অধযায় শেষ হবার পর তরতর করে এগিয়েছে পড়া। যতই সমাপতির দিকে এগিয়েছি, ততই বুঝতে পেরেছি মাঝখানের ওই পুনরাবৃততিটুকুর দরকার ছিল। পাঁচ তারাই দিতাম, এক তারা কাটলাম সেই
আরেকবার ঘোল খাইয়ে দিল মহিলা! সারাটা বই যখন হিসেব মেলাতে-মেলাতে সুন্দর করে একটা কনক্লুশনে চলে আসছি, ঠিক তখনই পাশার দান গেল ঘুরে। অথচ হিসেব আমার ঠিকই ছিল--ছোট্ট একটা জিনিস চোখ এড়িয়ে যাওয়াতে ধোঁকা খেয়ে গেলাম।মসৃণ, আগ্রহোদ্দীপক একটা সূচনার পর মাঝখানে গিয়ে মনে হচ্ছিল একটু যেন পুনরাবৃত্তি চলে আসছে। সেজন্যে একটু ধীর হয়ে গিয়েছিল পড়ার গতি। কিন্তু সেই পাঁচটা অধ্যায় শেষ হবার পর তরতর করে এগিয়েছে পড়া। যতই সমাপ্তির দিকে এগিয়েছি, ততই বুঝতে পেরেছি মাঝখানের ওই পুনরাবৃত্তিটুকুর দরকার ছিল। পাঁচ তারাই দিতাম, এক তারা কাটলাম সেই মাঝখানের ধীরগতিটুকুর জন্যে।
Rating: 4.5* of fiveThis is one of the reviews where I talk about the book and the TV show. I don't know why that pisses people off so much, but it seems to; however, I am all out of fucks to give.The book, which I read a while ago for the third time but first since the 1980s, has aged reasonably well. The TV adaptation, from  Agatha Christie's Poirot 's ninth season, is really excellent and apparently not particularly faithful to the source material.To be frank, I prefer the show to the book in
Caroline and Amyas's daughter Carla in the book wants to do something that I see as selfish and self-centered: Prove to her fiancé she's free of hereditary criminal tendencies so he will still want to marry her.
Which is daughter Lucy in the show's motivation, and it's a LOT more palatable to me.The title, which is perfectly logical for the book, makes zero sense as the TV show's title because the famous monologue that sets it up isn't in the show.
Not a thrilling ride, not a boring ride, just a nice, pleasant ride of a read.
He is poisoned, dies and his wife is charged and convicted of his murder.
She dies in prison a year later.
She left her daughter (who was five years old when her father was poisoned) a note saying she did not kill her husband, the girl's father.
The 21 year old daughter hires the Belgian detective to investigate and solve the mystery as to whether the wife was rightfully convicted.
And it's solved by Poirot, no surprise here and closes with a flamboyant ending.
Fireworks going off!!!
Three fireworks.Read another?
This book is not Agatha Christie, a.k.a our honorable, well adored Queen of Murder, at her best. However, Fiver Little Pigs is still a decent murder mystery and I highly appreciate Ms. Christie's sharp observation and how she shaped her characters.
This is definitely not the best book from Agatha Christie but it is still an excellent read.
(view spoiler)[Like, for example, that the marriage of Amyas and Caroline was, in fact, very successful and that Amyas was not planning a divorce and leaving his wife.
But then I became more and more convinced that Amyas was not going to leave his wife to be with Elsa.
(hide spoiler)] So the final solution did not surprise me at all and the murderer turns out to be the person I suspected most of the time.Still, this is a very enjoyable read, totally worth reading.
An unique book by Agatha Christie, Poirot solves a cold case.
Poirot takes it only because of his passion for the truth, but it is not an easy journey.
As always, it is the small things that are often overlooked by the majority of people that leads Poirot to the truth.Amyas and Caroline Crale are not very sympathetic people and I just disliked both of them.
Caroline Crale, on the other hand, goes through life fighting and screaming over her husband's infidelity, but refuses to leave him, because 'love'.
The reason ‘Five Little Pigs’ is one of the least well known Agatha Christie novels is that it’s such thin and uninspiring stuff.
As it’s only her innate skill which ensures that when she’s having an off day – and make no mistake, ‘Five Little Pigs’ is a distinct cold sweats and vomiting type off day – that she doesn’t produce a dead of the page, decomposed on arrival, complete catastrophe of a novel.
‘Five Little Pigs’ really isn’t any good, but you will most probably read it right to the end – and that’s the best I can say about it.
