https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10978.Collected_Stories
More times that not, I find that I actually enjoy the second reading of his stories because I’m not so busy trying to figure such basic elements as who is speaking to whom.While Faulkner doesn’t write in Italian or German, he does like to make up his own English on occasion.
Before you read his novels or Collected Stories, I recommend that you become familiar, if you aren’t already, with the words “anathema,” “apotheosis,” “sibilant,” and “effluvium.” He loves those.
My opinion (for whatever it is worth) is that Faulkner was a much better short story writer than novelist.
The form put limits on his stream of consciousness techniques and forced him to keep the narratives moving, which he seems to struggle with in the longer form.
Stories like "That Evening Sun", "Barn Burning", "Two Soldiers" and its sequel, "Shall Not Perish" are as good as any I've ever read.
When I think of it, the reason these stories work so much better than his novels is that his style, with the cadence and razor sharp imagery of poetry, creates a dramatic tension that is probably impossible to sustain in a longer work.
Faulkner is worth the extra effort. Give me Faulkner over Hemingway and Fitzgerald any day.
I'm giving it up with 'Collected Stories' after having read 'Red Leaves', which is about some Indians discussing whether to eat their Negro slaves.
We were warned from the back cover synopsis - 'In this extraordinary collection, Faulkner captures the bitter tensions of America's Deep South.
The stories are all different, but all the same in a way.
I think the writing is different to Faulkner's novels, which are more demanding and have a cinematic structure which I like.
I love the novels I've read so far and will not be discouraged from reading others.
I stopped reading at page 343.
After reading this book, I respectfully disagree.
The Chicago Tribune got it right when it said that "There is not a story in this book which does not have elements of great fiction." Even if I did not particularly like the story or understand it at first, it is impossible not see Faulkner's mastery of the craft.
Stories I liked:"Hair""Dry September": Reminded me so much of a twisted version of To Kill a Mockingbird I wondered if Harper Lee was in anyway influenced by this short story."Elly""That Will Be Fine": The best use of a child narrator in this book."That Evening Sun": CREEPY."Crevasse""Turnabout""All the Dead Pilots""Wash""Honor": Although Mildred annoyed me, I still enjoyed the story."Pennsylvania Station": A backwards version of the American Dream."Mountain Victory""Beyond": Found it twistedly funny."Mistral" Time to go find a collection of Fitzgerald's short stories and compare.
I thought reading both Faulkner and Hemingway's collected stories in the first half of this year would help me pick one author over the other as a favorite. It did not. Both are brilliant. Both wrote novels I adore. Both wrote strong short stories, some of which are among the very best short stories written in the past century. Still, they're very different. Faulkner is tougher, more lush in language and maybe a little more contemplative/pondering. Whether those qualities are virtues or not all depends on your personality and mood.
"The Tall Men" moved me to tears. "The Bear Hunt" is hilarious, the combination "Carcassone" and "The Black Music" destroyed my every conception of what is artistically possible with the pen. read them in this order and "Carcassonne" will befuddle you as an abstract matter created purely for artistic pleasure, then "The Black Music" will reassemble this same mass of abstract imagery into a completely coherent and vital spectacle of the singularity of human life. In this you will experience the pure genius of Faulkner.
"Uncle Willy" is the story I enjoyed the most. It's about a small town morphine addicted pharmacy owner that some do-gooders try to get clean. I liked "A Bear Hunt" too. I had a grandparents that spoke like the people in the country section of stories.
I am recommending any Faulkner that contains "A Rose for Emily". My favorite story of all time, no competition. A must read. Read it aloud to someone, or a group, and get their reaction. Much better than watching the audience jump when you know (as a multiple time viewer) when the shark is coming in the movie Jaws, as an illustration. Wonderfully nuanced and written with such an eye for detail.
Casi 800 páginas de cuentos. 10 meses de lectura. Mi primera experiencia con Faulkner (entremedio leí Luz de Agosto). Imposible hacer un reseña, solo diré que no recuerdo un cuento mediocre o de baja calidad. Y que la forma de narrar de autor está a otro nivel.
I plan to one day return to read the WWI stories along with the novel “Pylon”.
Occasionally a story will return to some beloved character from a novel, and other times the stories will flesh out a family, like the three stories about the Griers of Frenchman’s Bend, or the saga of the Chickasaw chief Doom.
“The Tall Men” is also a WWII story, this time revisiting the McCallum men from “Flags in the Dust” whom I loved so much.
I suggest reading the short stories after you have read all of Faulkner’s novels up to “Go Down Moses” (1942).
What I can't do is think about Faulkner for too long, because when I do it I feel like my head's going to burst with admiration.
The general impression that Faulkner's fiction leave in my mind is that of a music box through which, when opened, I can see a wide landscape where a million things are going on at the same time, and reading a specific short story is like zooming into a tiny portion of that landscape, while the rest is still going on.
||- هذه المجموعة القصصية معظمها يدور في حقبة الحرب العالمية الأولى وما بين الحربين، مكونّة من 6 قصص لفوكنر، وعلى ما يبدو أن كلمة قسمّت قصص فوكنر المختارة على 3 كتب لأن الكتاب الأصلي مكوّن من 42 قصة.
الهالة التي جمعت القصص الستّة هنا -بالنسبة لي- ما الذي يحدث؟ ما المغزى من القصة؟ ..
القصة الوحيدة التي أعجبتني "نحو النجوم" ، قصة عن الحرب العالمية الأولى وما بعدها بلسان خمس شخصيات عادية من بلدان مختلفة جمعتهم الحرب، بهذه الشخصيات المتناقضة بإمكاني أن أقرأ رواية كاملة.
عدا هذه القصة يبقى التساؤل: ما الذي كان يحدث ؟!
I love Faulkner! His short stories are great!
قصة الهنود الحمر و بعد وحده حلوات و البقية مملات و حجي عن الحرب العالمية الأولىهواي حجي عن الحرب العالمية الاولىكلش هوايكلشكلش.......يعني كلش
Awesome Book. Loved It.
But the list of great stories goes on: "That Evening Sun," "A Rose for Emily," "Turnabout," and a demonic little tale I like in particular, "Elly."Reading lots and lots of Faulkner stories one sees past the Southern myth maker, titanic in his rhetoric and ambition, to the resolute writer, strong and economical, versatile and vivid.
Y tan halagadora como pueda ser esta afirmación sobre un autor para el que solo siento respeto y admiración, me parece incorrecta.Sí, hay una complejidad inherente a gran parte de lo que Faulkner intenta aquí: un mundo y un ambiente demasiado normal y hasta monótono, casi indistinguible del nuestro, una estructura extraña que no parece escrita para que nadie la lea y que representa un reto y un misterio en sí misma, una serie de conflictos morales y sociales de otra época (aunque algunos temas parecen tan relevantes hoy como entonces), una sobriedad que desentona con nuestra acepción de gran historia, entre otros detalles.
I'd give this book to an alien or foreign friends for insight into the Zeitgeist of the White South from the Civil to World Wars.
The loose organization by theme and cast makes for an easy-to-handle tomography of culture.
A modern reader is struck by Faulkner's blindness to, or omission of, people whose cultures and struggles for equality shaped the South and 20th century America.
This book made me realize that these struggles are not only about how we envision the future, but how we remember the past.
There are few writers as good as Faulkner, too few men who understand that line of ambivalence in the minds of all men and women.
Faulkner's fiction is not something that you can easily label, a point on the map where you can put your finger.
His fiction is the unease of the heart and soul.
It moves far beyond the borders of the South.
It is about time, place, and isolation.
No one writes about the meaning of time better than Faulkner.
No writer ever.
It's beautiful fiction.
Faulkner is our (USA) greatest writer.
I read "The Bear Hunt" "Mule in the Yard" and Red Leaves.
"Mule in the Yard" was my favorite of the three, it was entertaining and funny at parts, pretty good overall.
"The Bear Hunt" I also thought was a entertaing read, but a little grusom at parts but still enjoyable.
The last one I read "Red Leaves" It was my least favorite of the three.
I'm not a fan of that style and found it to be a little hard to follow, and I just didn't enjoy the story like I did the others.
It took me 9 weeks, but I finally worked my way through each of the stories in this collection. My favorite, hands down, is Elly, which I read and re-read, read aloud to my husband, went online to look up background information, read again, made my friends read ... yeah, it was that good. Other stories here, however, were so very difficult to understand that I'm not sure I can say I actually read them, or merely read the words - one after another.
Assigned in 11th grade. only some of the stories were required. Every story is great.
التقاطه للتفاصيلتشبيهاته المتجددةسرده الممتعشعرت بالملل لارتباط جميع القصص تقريبا بالحرب العالمية الأولىلكن أسعى لقراءة أعماله الأخرى. وجهد المترجم واضح جدا.
Faulkner is the worst thing to happen to American Literature. Just my opinion.
This review is probably not going to make me popular with any of my friends who are fans of classic literature.
Out of the "big three" Nobel winning 20th Century American authors- I truly love Steinbeck, Hemingway has some moments of brilliance (not in every work, mind you), but I've read enough Faulkner to know that I just truly don't care for his writing.
As I stated recently in a review of a collection by Nabokov that I felt similarly about (it was still a tad better for me than this one, but not by much).
First of all I can think of Flannery O’Connor, a mesmerizing author.In fact, if I could hardly name a few American writers as a teenager, let alone appreciate them, now I admire a good number of them - John Cheever, Scott F Fitzgerald, I do not know where to place Nabokov- but let us have him here too, Steinbeck, Edith Wharton, James Dickey- with the thrilling and astonishing Deliverance, Joseph Heller-the hilarious and witty Catch 22, Theodore Dreisser with the marvelous American Tragedy and the very good Sister Carrie, Carson McCullers with the rather sad The Heart is a Lonely Hunter, Ralph Ellison with the poignant Invisible Man, Richard Wright author of the horrifying Native Son, John O’Hara and the great Appointment In Samarra Perhaps strangely, I am less keen on Hemingway- albeit I loved The Sun Also Rises and not so much the classics: For Whom the Bell Tolls and A Farewell to Arms.

Five stars for the stories about the south. I would have appreciated a seeing a year of composition shown for each of the short stories. They are organized primarily by locale, so that there is no convenient way to track the author's changes of style over time. Some stories seem dated beyond the historical value of that. None use his stream-of-consciousness style, an asset in my view.According to Wikipedia, with some of his Nobel Prize award Faulkner established funds to support new fiction writers and to help educate African-American teachers.
I've been picking away at this off and on when I finished other books, and have come to just have to admit that I have to stop buying complete collections of works as introduction to authors. I get tired of their writing and probably enjoy it much less than if I simply purchased in smaller collections rather than entire spans of careers.
