https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149413.Sword_at_Sunset
I had not heard of this work or of Rosemary Sutcliff until I found this at a bargain charity shop, and I already had my favourite Arthurian novels and series : Nancy McKenzie's Guinevere books, the Mists of Avalon, Mary Stewart , and Benard Cronwell.Written in a style that needs concentration and focus to absorb it is nonetheless rewarding and enriching as it places Arthur firmly in the Romano-Celtic tradition dispensing with the anachronistic medieval knight and chivalry affair.Sutcliff did her research of 4th century Britain well as we read of Artos and his companions (No 'Knights of the Round Table) travelling across Britain to keep the Saxon invaders and the raiding Picts and Scots out.
It's beautifully written, and it pretty much exemplifies Rosemary Sutcliff's usual shtick about male friendships (and a sepulchral voice that sounds like my dissertation supervisor whispers the words "homosocial bonds"...), to the point where there is actually an explicitly gay couple in the story, and Arthur and Bedwyr's relationship is deep and intense -- perhaps not sexual, but the subtext is there.Sutcliff handles Guinevere well, too, and I have a lot of love for her version of Gwalchmai, too.
But of course for my dissertation I was looking at Cei: a big, larger than life figure who drinks and womanises and is always, always faithful to Arthur, like a big faithful hound.
I didn't think I was going to like Sword at Sunset as much as I typically like Rosemary Sutcliff's books, even though it was surely combining two of my favourite things -- Sutcliff's writing and realism, and Arthurian myth.
It's also unusual for her in that it's written in first person, and narrated by Arthur himself.It also, to my surprise, had a couple of LGBT themes -- a gay couple among Arthur's men, to begin with, and then the relationship between himself and Bedwyr.
There's no Lancelot here, and Bedwyr takes that place in many ways, but with more of a shown relationship than I've ever found typical between Arthur and Lancelot.
Rich in characterisation not only of Artos the Bear but also of his wonderful Companions.It is Artos, warrior, horseman, leader of men who gave rise to the later more romantic, sanitised depiction of King Arthur.We see a different side to Guenhemara, who he takes to wife.This is a gritty story, and for me a more plausible story of the rise of Arthur and brings him to life on the pages.
It is a story rich in paganism, pageantry and comradeship but it is also a story of treachery.This is a magnificent book....I didn't want it to end
Many years later I found it in paperback and settled down with much anticipation to read it.
I put it down after half a chapter, unable to read further because of the densely packed lines, poor paper and blurry print.
She chose to place the novel in a time when a character such as Arthur may have lived, the century after the Romans left Britain when the scent and semblance of their power still lingered in towns and palaces and in the hearts and minds of a few.
Her descriptions of the country are wonderful, her insights into the hearts and minds of her characters humane and clear-sighted.
This is, for me, the definitive historical version of the Arthur story, although I do have other favourites - Mary Stewart, Parke Godwin, Jack Whyte, Bernard Cornwell.
If he existed, this is how he would have been - a Romano-British leader who is passionate about saving the world he lives in, keeping the light going before the dark sets in.
His Companions are very likely the original companions of Arthur in the oldest stories - Cei, Gwalchmai, Bedwyr.
The reasons for what happens between the leader's friend and his woman are heart-wrenching and who's to say it didn't happen that way?There's no Merlin or Camelot in this novel.
She also penned nonfiction works and adult fiction, including Sword at Sunset, originally published in 1963 and re-released on May 1st of this year.Sword at Sunset features an introduction by Canadian author Jack Whyte, writer of the successful Camulod Chronicles, a nine-book series beginning several generations before Arthur was born.
The characterization, the tone, and the painstaking attention to historical detail and accuracy are prevalent in both works, to the point where one might think Whyte owes Sutcliff more than an introduction and homage.In Sword at Sunset, Sutcliff creates a world where the Roman legions have left Britain, yet the sense of Romanitas remains strong, especially in the noble characters of Ambrosius and Artos the Bear.
Of course I'd read Thos.
Malory as a child.
But when I found "Sword at Sunset" at sixteen or so, I knew that this was the version of Arthur that I needed.
All those people who loved "Mists of Avalon" or "Once and Future King" just...baffled me.
Sutcliff's post-Roman Britain was the only Arthurian version I could imagine at all.
Spare, harsh, austere, dark...and that vision of the last lingering lights of civilisation and Romanitas being held aloft against the Saxon flood and the inevitable dark.
Her Arthur--- Artos, he is, war-leader and cavalryman ---is a figure I can admire.
The best "modern" Arthur story I've read.
Wish I'd read it forty years ago.
About as close to a happy ending as you can hope for given how many of his close friends and relatives were betraying our protagonist.Not to be confused with historically accurate, you understand, but that's never been a big consideration in Arthur stories.
I can sum Rosemary's errors in one word: stirrup.
Western Europe still didn't have stirrups when Charles Martel stopped the Umayyads at Tours in 732.
Artos couldn't have had them in Britain 400 years earlier.
And without stirrups using long spears like Medieval lances is impossible.
For those of you who have never read any of Rosemary Sutcliff's books you have missed out on a great youth writer of historical fiction and this in many's mind is her best book and my own personal 2nd best favorite of the Arthurian tales. Her books are about youth but they never write down to her audience. The are almost adult in every way. They all deal with morals and character development.
If I had read this book as a child, it would have fundamentally changed my life in the way The Dark is Rising did.
I'm not sure I can do credit to "Sword at Sunset." Sutcliff wrote this fundamentally realist version of the Arthur mythos in the fifties, and the degree to which it has apparently influenced all realist and semi-realist Arthurian narratives that follow it is vast.
If you have the slightest inclination towards the Arthurian mythos, read this.
Sutcliff was a master at her craft, and this is her crowning adult reader work.
This is the story of Arthur fighting the Saxons in post-Roman Britain, yet it is a more realistic Arthur, without the trappings of medieval chivalry that distract us from the hardships of battle.
This Arthur is a king who fights for freedom and peace, "the dream that keeps men alive", and in him we see glimpses of our own High King.
(Indeed, Sutcliff explicitly refers to the king who must sacrifice himself for his people.) Arthur is a true hero, called to do hard things at a great cost, putting his own interests aside for the sake of others.
"There will be more songs tomorrow." I loved this book for different reasons, reading it in my early 30s, than I did when discovering it in my teens.
I still love it -- Sutcliff's descriptions of landscape and evocation of seasons are quite wonderful -- and the remarkably realized Arthur at its heart, an Arthur who tells his own story.
Plus, it's King Arthur!
How could I not love King Arthur?
On a less besotted and more practical note, early medieval Britain's multiple peoples and religions are also fascinatingly treated; as a medievalist, I appreciated Sutcliff's work at imagining the shifting power dynamics of this postcolonial landscape.
Points for ditching Lancelot.
Artos spends his entire life fighting to save Britain.
The characters are so real and the descriptions so vivid...it was so easy to immerse myself.Enjoy these short morsels taken from the book:"For the first three days the hunter led us northwestward, by the road and then by looping marsh ways that followed the firm ground among the reedbeds and winding waters and thickets of thorn and sallows, where left to ourselves we should have been hopelessly lost within an hour, and where, even as it was, the horses were often fetlock deep in the dark sour-smelling ooze.
But what Rosemary Sutcliffe does with Sword at Sunset is set Arthur (or Artorius as he is here) in a historical context, specifically post-Roman Britain at the time of the Saxon invasions.
Sword at Sunset is another link in the chain begun by Eagle of The Ninth, (followed by The Silver Branch, Frontier Wolf and The Lantern Bearers) and tells, in flashback, in Artorius's own words, the story of Artos The Bear, Count of Britain, war leader under the High King Ambrosius, battling to hold together the last remnants of Romano-British Civilisation in Britain, in the face of Saxon invaders.
Artos is portrayed as such a skilled commander and judge of human nature, that it isn't surprising he WOULD notice all these little details.When Artos and his companions grow old, he looks around at the young men of Britain and muses that in his time, young men were braver, larger somehow, and now they are diminished.
Rosemary Sutcliff's books are like that to me - a bit larger and greater than what is published today in the same general genre.
I had this same feeling at the end of her Eagle of the Ninth - that I had a brief view of a larger, grander capacity of the human heart.
This is Standard Arthurian Legend without the Standard and the Legend; Sutcliff grounds her story in the real history and salts it with the grit and pain of real war.
The characters' names may not be recognizable (other than Artos and Guenhumara, which are barely so) but the story is familiar.
And even the standard story (Arthur betrayed by his son by his half-sister, and by his best friend) is really only a minor part of this story of one man's battle to unite Britain - the tribes and the remnants of Rome - against the Saxon invaders and their allies.I am also tagging this glbt because one important thread in this book is the story of two of Artos's soldiers who love each other; and there are implications that Artos and Bedwyr (the Lancelot role) may be lovers as well - certainly they are "closer than brothers".
Sword At Sunset is an a retelling of the Arthurian legend with the emphasis on realism.
Nevertheless, it's an entirely convincing reconstruction of what life must have been like at the onset of the Dark Ages in Britain and a very satisfying read, especially for readers who enjoy historical fiction.Warning: Although this is part of the same sequence as The Eagle Of The Ninth, The Silver Branch and The Lantern Bearers, all of which were considered children's books, the themes of Sword At Sunset are entirely adult and include incest, adultery and ethnic slaughter.
Except.....The one thing that ruined the entire book for me was the 2 pages in the beginning; the note from the author.
Ms. Sutcliff presents this book as the "real" story of Arthurian legends.
It seemed to me as very pompous; that she was the only one to tell the real story.
I cautioned myself that I may have misinterpreted it so I re-read it after completing the book and as I did, I still caught those undertones.
It is not clear and it is just my interpretation but it ruined the entire feel of the otherwise decent book.
Wonderful story of the Celtic warrior that we know as King Arthur.
This tale starts with Artos the Bear as a young calvary leader and ends with his last battle where he kills his traitorous son, Merdraut.
The reader can very much feel the betrayal of Artos' friendship with the affair of Artos' wife, Guenhumara, and his best friend, Bedwyr (not Lancelot!).
I love Rosemary Sutcliff, and decided to read this after I read her book "The Eagle of the Ninth".
I recommend this book to any reader who loves Celtic Britain or King Arthur!
3.5 stars I had a bit of trouble with the character of Artos here - the language Sutcliff gave him is too flowery and poetic for a 4th century war chief who spends most of his time swinging a sword.However, I really liked Bedwyr.And I liked the very gritty and realistic feel of the story, there were no fantastic elements of the Arthurian Legend like Merlin or magic or lake ladies...
I could not really connect to Artos, but was quite taken with Bedwyr.
The Sword at Sunset by Mary Renault; in many ways it is almost a companion piece to the Eagle in the Snow by Wallace Breem (another of my very favourite novels).Sword at Sunset, like the Eagle in the Snow deals with the very last waning of the Roman Empire in Western Europe, but this time, specifically in Britain.
It is also my favourite version of the Arthur story / Arthurian legend.
I don't want to write too much about it and spoil anyone's future enjoyment, but this was one of Rosemary Sutcliff's few adult historical novels and it is superb in every way.
I found this book at the library one afternoon, sitting lonely on a shelf.
I love Arthurian legend, so I decided to give it a try.
It's one of a handful of books I've read twice as an adult.
I read it again just to remind myself how good it was.
It's a look at Arthur how he really would have been chronologically.
It's dirty and grimy and takes you to the heart of what it meant to be Britain and what it may have meant to be Arthur.
If you like Arthurian legend, you will like this.
I have a son named Lancelot, so I have read quite a bit about Arthurian legends.
This one was all right, I suppose, but did not portray the glory I expected.
Yes, I know the legends, and the ending pretty much has to be grim, but there was vey little joy anywhere in the novel.
There’s one autumn, I think, when Artos is training his Companions that he says are the happiest in his life.
I won’t do a plot outline, since the basics are probably known by everyone.
If you find detailed descriptions of sword battles enthralling ( I don’t), you’d probably like this more than I did,
The culminating book in a series on post-Roman Britain for young adults--pretty much; does that make me young?--but can also stand alone as a dead-on capturing of the real, difficult, scruffy truth that might have inspired the Arthurian legend. I first read this at 15, and again a couple of years ago. It was even more stirring and poignant through adult eyes.
I really liked this Book. Am a huge fan of historical fiction and this is one of the finest books of that genre I have ever read. Ms. Suttcliffe has a beautiful style of writing. You feel as if you have lived the story.
There's no Merlin in this! Everyone else is in it but Merlin!
Excellent retelling of the Arthurian Legend, imagining how things could have been in an accurate historical context. No magic, a touch of Celtic lore, fierce battles, love and betrayal.
This is another early inspiration for my Arthurian work; superb storytelling.
