https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26329.Emotional_Intelligence
Descriptive but not very practical--The main and only thesis of the book is: emotional intelligence is important.
Goleman spends over 13 hours in this audiobook to pretty much buttress the thesis with evidence from various sources including psychology, medicine, and educational programs.The content is interesting at times but overall, the message got repetitive and I was looking for any useful information to put to use in my daily life from the book to no avail.
Unfortunately the book is very much descriptive and normative, but not very useful or practical.
I see it as a seminal contribution to understanding the human condition, and a roadmap of practical steps for living better, both within ourselves and with those around us.I begin by recommending the excellent review by Lars - a clear, well-written summary of the major points in the book.Here I will focus on 3 topics from the book: 1) the evolution of brain mechanisms for emotional and rational behavior; 2) how these mechanisms can be hijacked in modern life, both accidentally and intentionally; and 3) the critical need for properly balancing emotion and rational thought in ourselves and our society.
Emotional Intelligence is a book that was recommended to read on a management course that I took, oh, some time way back towards the beginning of the century.
I lent that volume to a colleague and never got it back, I got a second copy which I lent to my Mother and I never got that back either (view spoiler)[ along with The Way of all Flesh and The Innocent Anthropologist, however since I have also permanently borrowed Mutter Courage und ihre Kinder from her I suppose there is some wider need for a truth and book reconciliation process, or communal book ownership, or maybe a tender hearted acceptance that books can never be truly owned but have a deep need instead to be free to find readers (hide spoiler)].
If we consciously develop those neural pathways to the parts of our brains associated with attending to emotions, we can strengthen a 'self-aware' style of managing them that Goleman notes is so much more effective than what he calls 'engulfed' and 'accepting' styles.
While recent studies have indicated the remarkable adaptability of the brain into old age, it is during childhood and adolescence, Goleman notes, where we have the largest 'windows of opportunity.' Since 'Emotional Intelligence' first came out fifteen years ago, 'emotional literacy' has earned a place in the curriculum of many schools.
It certainly contains a lot of useful info, but boy, is it ever dense!
Reading it is like hacking your way through a dense jungle with a dull machete.
It must also be noted that it is most definitely of the school of 80's/90's "hard-wired" thinking about the brain, and hard-sells the view that, to put it simply, mind comes from brain, and not the other way around.
(For comparison, try Sharon Begley's Train Your Mind, Change Your Brain, which, oddly enough, has a preface by Goleman.) A further note: I get the distinct impression that Goleman doesn't really like people that don't "fit in".
I read this book after a big break up and it really opened my eyes to how I contributed to that break up. It's extremely important to have emotional intelligence and this is a fascinating discussion behind the theory and science of EI.
وقد وجدتُ ترجمة أخرى للكتاب لليلى الجبالي وهي تحتوي على الأجزاء الخمسة كاملة.لقد وضع في هذا الكتاب، الأساس للدور الذي تلعبه المشاعر بالتحكم في سلوك الفرد الإنساني وذلك من خلال تقسيم ملكة العقل البشري إلى العقل المنطقي، والعقل الإنفعالي.
ولربما تكون الإرهاصات الأولى التي سمحت لثورة القلب على سلطة الدماغ رغم أن هذا الكتاب لم يتحدث إطلاقاً عن دور القلب في المشاعر الإنسانية إلا من باب المجاز كما هو سائد في الأوساط العلمية آنذاك.
وقد بيّن قبل ذلك الدور الذي من الممكن أن يلعبه العقل الإنفعالي في إضافة الإستقرار على مؤسسة الزواج وحتى في العلاقة ما بين الموظفين برؤسائهم في العمل.
---When you are under stress, you are functioning on lower, primitive part of your brain while your higher part of the brain (neocortex)which is your rational, conscious thinking mechanism, goes offline, that's why under stress people cannot think stress or even remember simple facts---At best, IQ contributes about 20 percent to the factors that determine life success which leaves 80 percent to other factors, namely, emotional intelligence, abilities such as: self-motivation, impulse control and delaying gratification, regulating one's mood etc.---We often have little or no control over when we are swept by emotion, nor over what emotion it will be.But we can have some say in how long an emotion will last.---The more we ruminate about what has made us angry, the more "good reasons" and self-justifications for being angry we can invent.
كتاب ممتع جداً ومفيد يوضّح أهمية المشاعر ودورها في حياتنا.وكيف تؤثر فيها و على اتخاذ قراراتنا و إدارة حياتنا ككل.
I had to read this book for a leadership academy I was in and I found this to be a surprisingly good experience.The book introduces and explains the concept of "emotional intelligence," which, since beginning to read the book, I see is so much more important than almost any other awareness one could have on a day-to-day basis personally and professionally.Don't be shocked, if, in describing the many levels of emotional intelligence or lack thereof, you immediately think of friends, family, and coworkers that fit these personality types exactly.Once you begin to understand the makings of emotion and how different temperaments react to the varying levels of emotion, problems of all sorts seem to make more sense than ever before.The book is laid out into easily-digested chapters which the readers can pick and choose through based on their interests in the subject (brain chemistry?
leadership?
I think a lot of people who liked this book focused on that self-help aspect.
My problems with this book stem from the wider claims Goleman makes for EQ as a mental function.
Under Goleman's narrow definition, people with autism, even many on the high-functioning end of the spectrum, would not qualify as possessing a desirable EQ level, neither would the introvert who prefers books to people.
However, we know that even people with severe autism are able to learn emotional skills.
والتي فيها تشتيت ذهن المنفعل الغاضب عن الحالة التي هو فيها وقيامه بما قد يؤدّي إلى التّنفيس عن غضبه بأبخس الخسائر..ومع المراس يصبح ذلك ديدن الشّخص وينال رضى الله تعالى والعلاقات الاجتماعيّة الطّيبّة..فقد ورد ذكر هذا الصّنف بالذات في معرض المدح تأكيداً لأهمّيته وضرورته وخطورته، قال تعالى: (والكاظمين الغيظ والعافين عن النّاس والله يحبّ المحسنين)..ومع المِران والمتابعة في ضبط النّفس وردّات فعلها العنيفة العاطفيّة الهوجاء يصبح ذلك طبعاً في النّفس..

It should be "Why It MIGHT Matter More Than IQ (provided you're comparing people of similar age, education, background, career, aspiration, social economic status, race, ethnicity, gender, and so on and so forth)."The group that was looked at in this book was executives, and what the author found was that the thing that set these people apart from their peers and others vying for the same positions is people skills.
(Forgot to clarify this look at executives and their peers is only a small part of the book.)What I was interested, but sadly wasn't addressed head-on, was whether or not emotional intelligence is innate.
But Emotional Intelligence has no such odor.
He has his PhD, of course, as do many snake oil salesmen, but unlike these others, Goleman has academic street cred: he founded an institute at Yale, heads up another at Rutgers, and wrote science columns for the New York Times.At first glance, I can see that this book, though written more than 10 years ago, still packs a punch.
From my brief inspection, it appears that Goleman describes how the emotional mind is just as important as the rational mind.
But be patient: it is packed with science.
عندما يضطرب الشخص عاطفيا يفقد القدرة على التصرف بطريقة صحيحة وعلى اتخاد القرارات السليمة.
القدرة على التكيف والتناغم مع مشاعر الغير امور جد مهمة.
لذا حاول القيام بضبط مشاعرك قم بتدوين الافكار التي تزعجك تحدث مع اصدقائك المقربين.
ان استمرت في ازعاجك عوض القاء اللوم على الاخر حاول استخدام التعاطف تعلم كيف ترى الاشياء من منظور اخر اما كبث مشاعرك او التعبير عنها عن طريق الصراخ سيزيد الامور سوءا.ان للاباء دورا مهما في الحياة العاطفية التي سيعيشها الطفل في المستقبل اما يكون طفلا متفائلا واثقا في نفسه او طفلا يتوقع لنفسه الفشل لم اقم بقراءة الكتاب بكامله.
قرات الاجزاء التي تهمني فقط
What makes the doomsday predictions particularly embarrassing is the statistics he cites regarding rising violence and cocaine use, stating expert predictions that violent crime among the young would increase drastically in the years to come.
The simple fact is that if Daniel Goleman hadn’t been so set on his overblown doomsday scenarios, his book would have been so much better – more measured, more reasonable, and much less likely to make me throw up all over it.
Truthfully, he didn’t need all the catastrophising about the crumbling fibre of society to make a point for the importance of emotional intelligence – the rest of the book does that on its own.
Emotional Maturity in this trait shows:-Confidence-Sense of humor (can laugh at self)-Aware of your impression on others (can read the reactions of others to know how you are perceived)2.
Emotional Maturity in this trait shows:-Perceptive of other’s emotions and taking an active interest in their concerns.-Proactive—able to anticipate someone’s needs and the appropriate reaction.-Social Situations such as office politics do not phase one who has a firm grasp of empathy.5.
Emotional Maturity in this trait shows:-Communication: Listening and responding appropriately-Influence and Leadership: The ability to guide and inspire others-Conflict Management: The ability to diffuse difficult situations using persuasion and negotiation.
A great book that delves into the science behind emotional intelligence, the components that comprise the trait, and the practical applications of possessing EI.
While I knew a decent amount of the information beforehand as a Psychology student, several points stood out to me, such as the explanation of child molesters' mindsets, the idea that abused children gain heightened emotional perceptiveness, and almost all of the brain-related information.
My favorite sections appeared toward the end, when Goleman shared success stories of emotional intelligence being taught in schools.
You can check out Jim's review for more about the contents within the book.
The book is informative and it can certainly be enjoyed by the readers - serious as well as casual page-flippers. The book has a lot of useful information for the first category readers and a number of interesting facts for the second category readers. I read it somewhere in-between and was delighted as well as informed.
Similarly, advice on encouraging a timid child to be less so by "gentle pressure to be more outgoing" doesn't really need explaining as controlling their "overexcitable amygdala", not least as the recommendation is based on practical observation rather than deduced from the function of the brain.And the focus on including Emotional Intelligence in education of children is welcome, but the book's recommendations are focused more at policymakers and educators than individual parents.I found the occassional useful nugget but buried away - for example, the analysis of how arguments (particularly between women and men) can degenerate into personal criticism vs.
لكن بالمستقبل احتمال كبير جدا انه راح ينجح اكثر من غيره لأن اختبارات الذكاء والقدرات ما تقيس قابلية المرء لتحمل الضغوط في سبيل التعلم و ممارسة ما تعلمه ولا تقيس كيف يكيف طاقته العصبية والنفسية انها تستمر في الجهد والمحاولة حتى يصل لما يريد وكأنه يملك ريموت كنترول لمشاعره..
الطاقة العصبية موضوع مهم ومثمر للي يقرأ فيه ويتعلم كيف يسخر طاقته العصبية ومشاعره المحركة للعمل و حب التفوق والنجاح في حياته اليومية بذكاء عشان يوصل لأهدافه بالأخير ...إن شالله ما أكون ظلمت الكتاب بالرفيو القصير لأني أعجبني وقريته بيوم رغم طوله 300 صفحة وشيء وكان نسخة الكترونية بغلاف مختلف لكن نفس الكاتب​هل انصح بقرائته؟ اكيد للي يحب يقرأ شي يفيده ويخدمه بعلاقته مع الناس
I read this years ago - the reading date of 2004 is entirely arbitrary and I'm writing this at the end of 2015.I remember the essential messages vividly, especially his discussion of why emotional thresholds differ, and the importance of counting to 10 to let the rational brain kick in over the primitive amygdala response. A good deep breath goes a long way.I love the concept of emotional intelligence - very useful in dealing with others.
Αν και κάπως δημοσιοσχεσιτικο (δηλαδή σου λέει πως μπορείς να τα έχεις καλά με προϊσταμένους διευθυντές συναδελφους) είναι πολύ ενδιαφέρον

It is mainly the author just rambling on and on about all the stories he heard in all his life of other people (or at least, it seems like it) and how that relates to emotional intelligence.
He leans forward menacingly, his fists clenched, as he says in an annoyed tone, "Should I put them to bed now?"His thought: "She opposes me in everything.
I'd better take over."Melanie, suddenly frightened by Martin's wrath, says meekly, "No, I'll put them to bed right away."Her thought: "He's getting out of control—he could hurt the kids.
The book concerns itself with a key set of characteristics he calls 'emotional intelligence': abilities such as being able to motivate oneself and persist in the face of frustrations; to control impulse and delay gratification; to regulate one's moods and keep distress from swamping the ability to think; to empathize and to hope.This time around I spent the most time on the section about emotional intelligence in marriage (something I had no use for in 1995) and found Dr. John Gottman's research front and center, where it should be.
The funny thing about reading old seminal books that have already made their point is that your natural attitude toward their genius society-shaking discoveries is "duh" Emotions are important.
duh.Emotional competence is a better predictor of success than intelligence.
duh!Once you recognize your emotions, they lose their power, as you are more able to manage with reason.
duh!Anger works like Super Mario Bros., triggering events in quick succession cause you to jump up higher and higher unless you come down first.
duh!The brain's emotional center has a direct connection with your brain's senses that bypasses your "thinkig brain" and goes faster, meaning you literally emotionally react before you can think.
duh!
duh!
ربما ما ينقصنا في هذا العالم المعقد القدرة على السيطرة على انفعالاتنا ... يتكلم جولمان في كتابه عن علاقة الذكاء وعدمه وفي التاثير على انفعالاتنا ... يربط ذلك فسيولوجيا دماغ الانسان ...فقد اثبت علميا ان الكثير من الاذكياء دراسيا هم اغبياء اجتماعيا... على النقيض هناك ممن اعتبرهم اغبياء دراسيا كانوا اذكياء عاطفيا ..وعليه يرى جولمان انه من الضروري ان يتم تعليم الذكاء العاطفي في المدارس كما يتم دراسة القراءة والكتابة والحساب...يعرض الكثير من المشاكل التي تواجه المجتمع؛ الاطفال,الازاواج ,مشاكل العمل , ومشاكل المراهقين "الاكثر ضرارا وانتشارا "ويبن حلول لها ......
Un excelente aporte a la educación. Un libro que todo profesor debería leer
