https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/57955.Spiritual_Authority
(1)You cannot be a subject to the authority of God and Satan.
We do no obey man, but God’s authority in that man.
Obedience to authority requires subjection to authority.
Rather, he wanted to do the will of the Father, and was therefore willing to take up the cross if that was the Father’s will.
Aaron’s authoritative, ordained offerings and “strange fire” are the same to outward appearance.
But one was under the authority of Aaron, the other was offered in rebellion, not under the covering of authority.
A great explanation of spiritual authority, both directly from God and indirectly through the people He places over us. It's basically impossible not to feel convicted about something while you read Watchman Nee. He's not afraid to call you out.
It was not a pleasurable experience reading this book as I was continually convicted.
Don't read this book for a pick-me-up, but only if you're ready for a challenge to go deeper with God. I'm glad I read it, probably will re-read it or at least review it.
Even after I've put it down, it continues to speak to me, challenge me, convict me.
I do, however, believe that in time I will be able to see this book as uplifting, but right now it's a much-needed nuisance.
I think that this is a subject to many Christians ignore.
Nee reminds us of what is important and who we are to serve.While the language of the books was a bit archaic, I easily read it.
My big issue was with this book was the author tried so hard to make his point, that sometimes he twisted scripture to do it.
There were also a couple of minor points that he made that I felt were not backed-up in scripture.
It is a subject that I think more christians need to be reminded of, including me.
A classic work with basic principles that all Christian's should learn and apply in their day to day living. This book, like each one of his books, communicates key principles on a basic level so anyone can grasp wisdom and understanding.
Amazing - how to grow in spiritual authority by finding it, and submitting to it, in every situation of life.
You can not be in authority unless you can be under authority. This book gives much to consider, so spiritually rich. A must read for all Christian leaders.
I thank God for his writing: I picked this up to learn about his life --- [Watchman Nee became a Christian in mainland China in 1920 at the age of seventeen and began writing in the same year. Throughout the nearly thirty years of his ministry, Watchman Nee was clearly manifested as a unique gift from the Lord to His Body for His move in this age. In 1952 he was imprisoned for his faith; he remained in prison until his death in 1972. His words remain an abundant source of spiritual revelation and supply to Christians throughout the world.]
I actually listened to the CD version. I found it very challenging. I appreciated the consistent referral to scripture. I have a better understanding of the topic as well as more questions. I am not convinced that the author's interpretation and application are always accurate.
This book has radically helped me to define my worldview. Rebellion is such a problem with me, but this book tenderly exposed the issue and how the cross deals with it so severely. I'm so grateful for it!
When talking about obedience, one can easily fall into the trap of legalism. This book avoids that.
The power of real prayer, the understanding who we are in Christ, and the action of perseverance!
The authority of God is absolute.
As a created being, my role is obedience.
Instead of living in the freedom of obedience with God, humanity chose to live in rebellion, usurping God's authority and separating us from His presence forever.The connection Nee makes to Jesus' obedience as a human to our own rebellious condition is stark and has changed the way I think about my own obedience to the will of God. All authority is God's to give and he does so only to the obedient.
The premises of this book are 1) when given spiritual authority in the Church, be obedient to God and 2) being obedient to the spiritual authorities in your church is the same as obedience to Christ.I read this book at a time when there was upheaval in my local church.
Because Watchman Nee understood obedience and humility, he taught me a few things.
In this difficult time, I learned to weep for those things which make God weep; this upheaval was breaking God's heart.
Obedience can be difficult when we only see the authorities in our lives as mere men and women.
This book wasn't what I expected, but I was pleasantly surprised. Admittedly, my mind often wondered while reading and I would have to go back and re-read a lot. It wasn't because the material was too complex, but maybe just not engrossing. That said, i still loved it, and would highly recommend it. It was filled with so much humility and foundational Christian principles. It wasn't about our authority in Christ, but God's authority and how we need to submit to his established authority.
There was some great insight into the subject of spiritual authority as revealed by the Bible. However there were some confusing claims about the ideas of reason and thought being tied to rebellion that I felt were not soundly defended. Overall I felt the book had a good grasp on capturing a right perspective of authority and submission.
took me almost a year to finally get through until I trapped myself on a trip with only this book and no other. good info, though, and good because of the lack of emphasis on authority in the current cultural context.
Good book. It's not a novel, but it helps you put things into perspective.
This book helped me to understand my authority in Christ and to lay claim to what He desired to give me from His kingdom. Excellent read!
Great read for leaders/believers! Good addition to personal library.
Very deep book on an important topic. This is a book that should be carefully read by every Christian in the Western World.
Great book, a lot of great truths in it. It was a little hard for me to get through, but I did enjoy it.
it was enlightening. all the complaints leveled against are not valid.
Probably the best in the category !! Brilliant work, makes you think!
Definitely one of my favorite books ever.
excellent
Loved it. It was the spirtual alignment that I needed.
This book is regularly used by abusive churches to establish their "authority" over whoever chooses to submit to it. It is required reading in these places, and thus a huge red flag to anyone attending one of these places. This book is the basis for the so-called spiritual covering doctrine that insulates the leadership from any kind of accountability, and keeps the rest in complete submission to them like the "dumb sheep" they are regularly told they are. I cannot speak to the intent of the author; I only know how this book is used by abusive churches. Beware.
Every since the nineteen sixties when Jesus became a hippie and our buddy we have lost our understanding of Him as our Lord our boss.
Great teachingGreat book to help yippy become humble. To learn order. Great book to grow as a Believer. It's teaching me to become a true steward.
