https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1598075.The_Metal_Monster
Goodwin, gave Mr. Merritt, an unfinished manuscript,to be published, of his new adventures in Asia,after having barely survived last year's terror,in 1919, in "The Moon Pool"?
Still alive , Mr Goodwin foolishly or bravely,had embarked on a new expedition.The renowned botanist, wanted to forget!Besides he's a scientist, interested in looking for a rare flower.Searching for it, in the wilds of mountainous,remote,and unknown central Asia.Somewhere near Tibet.Obviously Walter is not saying exactly where....With the help of Chinese interpreter and great cook Chiu-Ming, hired in Persia(Iran) and two ponies.The men roamed around,looking, always looking,for the purple plant.Finally after many weeks, meeting ...
Фантастика, издържана в духа на Жул Верн и Хърбърт Уелс, но нещо не ѝ достигна да ме спечели. Може би претупаният и нелогичен финал, може би пространните описания на цивилизацията от мислещ метал, скътана в недрата на Тибет. Реална оценка 3,5
As Goodwin tells us, he initially set out on this second great adventure to forget the terrible incidents of the first; if anything, however, the events depicted in "The Metal Monster" are at least as mindblowing as those in the earlier tale.
While Goodwin had encountered underground civilizations, frogmen, battling priestesses and a living-light entity in the earlier tale, this time around he discovers, in the Trans-Himalayan wastes of Tibet, a surviving Persian city, a half-human priestess, AND an entire civilization made up of living, metallic, geometric forms; an entire city of sentient cubes, globes and tetrahedrons, capable of joining together and forming colossal shapes, and wielding death rays and other armaments of destruction.
I've always enjoyed A.
Merritt's tales.
Most of them read by me at a much earlier age.
Re-read Seven Footprints To Satan and The Face In The Abyss recently and still enjoyed them.
I read this one for the first time just now.
I'm vaguely aware that the original serialized version is considered superior to this embellished tome.
Much of the descriptive and expository segments are nothing short of soporific.
But the grist of the tale is intriguing and seems to depict an imaginative view of contact with an utterly alien entity.
My least favorite Merritt novel, but still worthwhile.
Ruth's descent or ascent (depending on the stance of the reader) into a lost tranquillity away from conformity and duty is symbolised at her rescue by her single bare breast, that of Diana, and her near nakedness that, brought to her senses, she hides and then abandons without embarrassment for the sensible clothes of an explorer.There is adventure in far away lands, a lost civilisation, creatures beyond time and space and, clearly, beyond our full comprehension, mysteries explained as science, bloody warfare, mesmeric altered states (Merritt undoubtedly had an interest in mind-bending drugs), courageous masculinity and the carefully managed high eroticism centred on idealised women.
I read this for its historic importance to SF but did not enjoy it.
It reminded me of a weak H.
Rider Haggard novel.
Merritt goes for pages describing the subterranean landscape, but I never got a sense of wonder--just a sense of wondering why I kept reading.
It would be hard to find characters flatter than the three male leads, who most of the time are doing nothing more than floating above the terrain, watching, or both.
They have little effect on anything.
Ruth, the love interest, makes Tarzan's Jane look like a multi-faceted character.
One-and-a-half stars would be more accurate.
Unlike pulp stories such as the ultra-fun Doc Savage series that are all about adventure and hair-breath escapes, these tended to also add some scientific ...
They begrudgingly share this retreat with direct descendents of the Persians who were trapped here by Alexander the Great's army, and not much has changed for them since that time.Merritt's stories are a step above what I often found in those fantasy and science fiction magazines when I was growing up, but it is still pulp fiction.
I believe he partook of too much of his own stash when writing this one."The Metal Monster" is a sort of follow-up to his first Dr. Goodwin novel, "The Moon Pool," which had a first act that was a creepy, awe-inspiring piece of weird horror fiction that would have been effective on its own had it not abruptly transformed into a silly fantasy adventure complete with catfighting half-naked priestess babes and giant frog warriors.
The resulting sequel is an almost unreadable mess.Like its predecessor, this novel starts off with a sense of otherworldy mystery and awe, as a group of explorers uncover a giant footprint and suspect something huge and very much alive is wandering near their campsite.
I read about this book in a critique of The Challenge from Beyond, where I saw that Lovecraft had called The Metal Monster, "the most remarkable presentation of the utterly alien and non-human that I have ever seen." Seemed like it would be interesting.
This is classic science-fantasy on an epic scale and it does not disappoint.
I particularly found the contrast of chaotic man with ordered metal to be engaging.
Life as man understands it has the chaos of struggle while imagining that life from something more structured like metal with a crystalline structure must see everything very differently.
One or two good ideas but endless, endless descriptions ad nauseum drag it down. While The Moon Pool or Seven Footprints to Satan sometimes dragged on, I could enjoy them. This novel dragged me under. While A A Merritt might have been an inspiration for fantasy or scifi writers of the 40's and 50's, I can't embrace him.
And man, an atom in the ferment, clings desperately to what to him seems stable; nor greets with joy him who hazards that what he grips may be but a broken staff, and, so saying, fails to hold forth a sturdier one.Earth is a ship, plowing her way through uncharted oceans of space wherein are strange currents, hidden shoals and reefs, and where blow the unknown winds of Cosmos.
This is an interesting and, at times, enthralling piece of weird adventure fiction.
At times, his descriptions reach the heights of poetry (my favorite: "It was as though I were the shining shadow of a star afloat upon the breast of some still and hidden woodland pool; as though I were a little wind dancing among the mountain tops; a mist whirling down a quiet glen; a shimmering lance of the aurora pulsing in the high solitudes."), but it's really a bit too much.
This is another one of those novels that you have to read with an eye toward the era in which it was written - this is Platinum Age science fiction, the kind that rode in on the tails of Wells, Verne, Burroughs, and the like.
The writing is good, and I'm a fan of Merritt - he always reminds me of Wilkie Collins for some reason - but the book is definitely dated and a bit slow in places.
Still, it is a decent read if you like this pioneering era of science fiction.
This one I probably started speed-reading to get it over with.★★ - Average.
Probably skimmed parts of it.★★★ - Decent.
This one had parts that inspired me, impressed me, made me laugh out loud, made me think - it got positive reactions and most of the rest of it was pretty decent too.★★★★★ - Amazing.
This is the best I've read of its genre, the ones I hold on to so I can re-read them and/or loan them out to people looking for a great book.
The best of these change the way I look at the world and operate within it.
This book was first serialized in Argosy All-Story Weekly in 1920 and features the return of Dr. Walter T.
Goodwin who first appeared in The Moon Pool.The story tells of Dr. Goodwin's incredible tale of his encounter with a lost race of tiny metal creatures in the Trans-Himalayan Mountains.
The most interesting part of the book is the description of the mobile nanobots, which foreshadow modern science fiction marvels such as the liquid metal T-1000 of Terminator 2 fame.
These metal creatures were undoubtedly amazing to the 1920s readers.
For today's readers, the flat characters and overwritten prose are less than amazing.
I've found this book amazingly interesting.
The worlds depicted and the plot itself, going back to the lost tribe of Persians, going forward to a technological empire of spheres and cones moved by direct solar energy, are the proof of a great and passionate imagination.
Even the particular relationship linking the princess/queen Norhala and the girl (Ruth) is nothing but the key for reading the whole book —not only that story— as an example of pioneering LGBT sci-fi.
However, all those positive aspects are darkened by a horrendous translation, plenty of errors, non-sense sentences and unconnected syntax making difficult not only the book's understanding, but also the very reading process.
I gave up on this vintage sci-fi novel on page 55.
I like the pseudo-Victorian style Merritt uses it to create mood, much as HP Lovecraft did.
Instead of creating a feeling of horror, Merritt creates a feeling of entering a spiritual realm in the Hindu Kush.
Nice.
The problem is that the characters are not interesting and Merritt fails to make the improbable seem probable, which is vital to the success of any sci-fi novel.
Since the style alone is not that good, this is not a book that I need to finish.
Abraham Merritt tells a tale of awe and wonder as well as horror and dread to the speculative fiction and fantasy. The continuing adventures of characters from an earlier book (The Moon Pool) explore a mysterious civilization hidden in a chasm and governed by a beautiful lady, a common theme in Merritt's stories. The lady rules a form of metal-based life. An awesome battle between man and the metal beings ensues. The grandeur of the fight reminded me of H.P. Lovecraft's extended descriptions of travels through other worlds.
I had to skim--could only take so much of that "ebon hand of night/lances of green fire" stuff. But it was pretty fun--plus it's a nice little lesbian love story. (Note the resemblance of Norhala to The Blind Spot's Nervina.)
An amazing read! Although it was a slow burn for me, I believe I needed that time to soak in Merrit's graphic depiction of everything Goodwin & his party were seeing. The science in this book & somewhat absurdity (living metal shapes in a living city) makes it a true wonder of it's time!!!
I love many old novels, but this was one of those ones full of characters that are perfect, but cardboard, and action that is all observed with an overexcitement for clever ideas, but little thought to plot and agency.
Stephen King recommended book in Chapter 3 of Berkley's 1983 paperback edition of Danse Macabre.
Slow going, sometimes overly descriptive, but worth persisting with. Reminded me a little of Rider Haggard.
Way too much description
1977 grade D-
Not nearly as much fun as the title page would suggest.
This was a free audio book. I can't beleive I even finished it. Very bad.
