https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/896880.Dusty_Answer
Sales were initially slow, and not much critical notice was taken of the book until Alfred Noyes gave it a glowing review in the Sunday Times, making Dusty Answer a bestseller almost overnight.
There's also a very powerful relationship between Judith and a fellow student at Girton, which scandalized reviewers who saw in it lesbian undertones.
(Lehmann indignantly denied this, and unfortunately, the character in the book who's more clearly meant to be a lesbian is unattractively portrayed.) Dusty Answer often lacks narrative drive (especially in the rather uncertain, diffuse ending), but its intense, often idyllic, and impassioned style is compelling, a foretaste of things to come.
http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b00thwrrDescription: Rosamund Lehmann's first novel Dusty Answer records the education of Judith Earle, the only child of an academic father and socialite mother.
The house next door is occupied from time to time by the Fyfe family whose children - cousins Charlie, Roddy, Julian and Martin drift in and out of her life.Part One sees Judith reminiscing about her childhood where the seeds of her strong friendship with the cousins are laid.
Whilst travelling in France with her mother, Judith meets up with Julian.
A forgotten British classic that for some reasons has always been popular in some parts of Europe - it seems never to have been out of print in France.
-The prose is exquisite, Lehmann's gift with the English language is amazing and you want to remember most of her sentences for their sheer beauty and the emotions they convey.
It's also one of the most beautiful, tender, and melancholic books ever written about adolescence and loss, and it captures the fleeting, elusive complexities of this time in life like few novels have been able to do.
If only for this book, Lehmann remains of the great British writers of her time.
Her characters live life large, their emotions strong and formidable, and they dream and love big even as reality thwarts and sometimes destroys them.Lehmann’s first novel, Dusty Answer , published in 1927, delves into a young woman’s life and mind in an emotional coming-of-age story.
When Judith goes to college and falls in with the magnetic Jennifer and is carried away into a friendship/affair with her, she almost escapes the mysterious, brooding Fyfes.
But even Jennifer, who eventually leaves Judith for a more open lesbian affair (the lesbian themes are quite tame and veiled for today’s readers), cannot curb Judith’s love for the elusive Roddy.
Mi sono trovato per sbaglio in un lesbodramma psicologico in cui tutti giocano a far male a qualcuno solo perché qualcun altro ha fatto soffrire loro.Praticamente una manica di imbecilli che giocano a far fuori chi è più debole, fragile o ingenuo.Non fosse per le belle descrizioni di alberi, fiori, giardini, profumi, fiumi, salotti e verande, sarebbe assolutamente evitabile.
I lost it when Julian appears after another absence (nothing happens in this book except absences where people return more glamorous than they were before.
The book jacket suggests that Roddy was gay and this was why he never returns Judith's obsession.
I remember reading that she was like this in her own life.
It is glossed over when her dad dies except for Judith to be said that Mariella doesn't write her a personal note.
I feel like the point in wanting anything at all was completely missed and that my life is over when I keep choosing the wrong books to read.
There is some books, stories or even characters that you put in the corner of your mind, in the corner of your heart and they follow your everywhere you go.
Rosamond Lehmann isn't well-known here (not for the common readers at least) and I discovered the book thanks to "Atonement" by Ian McEwan (who mentions the book in the novel when a journalist compares Briony's story to "Dusty Answer").
The strenght of Judith's feeling almost breaks my heart and the climax of the book is just perfect.
I didn't realize it is her most famous, a "succès de scandale" for its "sensitive treatment of homosexuality" (in 1970s jacket copy, the "treatment" is always either "sensitive" or "frank").Judith, an intelligent only child of well-to-do but emotionally distant parents, educated at home, becomes infatuated with the neighboring children, who are siblings and cousins all living with one grandmother (for a variety of reasons - they are not orphaned).
She sees them off and on over a decade and by young adulthood goes through a series of entanglements with three of the young men, always one-sided and ill-fated and overhung by her torrid Cambridge relationship with the elusive Jennifer.
Outside, where the gentle dusk glimmered on rain-wet branches, the bird-calls were like sudden pale jets of light, coming achingly to the mind; and all at once the sun, like a bell, struck out a poignant richness, a long dark-golden evening note with tears in it, searching all the land with its fullness and dying slowly into a obscurer twilight.
It's a juicily archetypal book about youth, in a very feminine way.Judith is one of those lonely only children in love with a family, four boys and a girl.
I did wish Judith had acknowledged that she deliberately decided to be in love with Roddy, so as to be in love.

(hide spoiler)]The more I write about this, the more I realise how much power this book has -- I simply cannot treat these characters as anything other than actual people, and I understand in a way I am not certain I have words for how Lehmann could insist there was no lesbianism in the book and yet be wrong -- she wrote what she saw and knew, very accurately, and the words for those things have changed, there are ideas about people and relationship now that she did not really have access to.
There is some books, stories or even characters that you put in the corner of your mind, in the corner of your heart and they follow your everywhere you go.
The strenght of Judith's feeling almost breaks my heart and the climax of the book is just perfect.
The ties between all the characters, the tragedy of resignation and fear (the fear of opening your heart to anybody), the burden of untelling feelings and desires, the weight of death and memories, make this book one of the greatest I have ever read.
Their manner of speech could seem affected and odd in these modern times, and yet it serves to demonstrate and bring to life for us now, the times and emotional confusions of so many young people between the wars.
This novel must have caused quite a stir upon it's publication, as the naive Judith becomes enamoured first of Jennifer whilst at Cambridge, and then falls recklessly in love with Roddy, one member of the Fyfe family who had so mesmerised her as a child.
The lives of Judith and the Fyfe family are dramatic, sad and sometimes hopeless.
I loved this book of young love.Judith Earle has always been in love with each of her four cousins.Summers spent playing outside in the countryside.All will change when Judith goes to Cambridge college and meets Jennifer!A coming of age novel where one learns who to love and trust.It's hard to believe this was Rosamond's first novel.I will be looking out for more of her wonderful books.
Bits reminded me of my loves Brideshead Revisited & The Great Gatsby & The Secret History but the narrator is more level with her longed for objects of desire: her family is well of, she's clever & pretty & has smart clothes & when she is heartbroken she gets to escape to France & have a love affair yet it isn't good enough for her still.
This book is muddled because everyone longs for someone who isn't around & they lead people on who love them.
No one is ever good enough.
Everyone is rotten in this book.
Lire Poussière, c'est plonger dans une vague de mélancolie, être submergée par la quête obsessionnelle du souvenir et de la dépendance émotionnelle.
C'est découvrir une écriture légère, douce, féérique, extrêmement touchante, vaporeuse, comme cette héroïne qui reste à l'abri de ses voiles sans jamais être saisie par les personnes de son entourage, qui exercent une fascination quasi malsaine sur elle.
On se sent lutter pour retrouver pied dans le réel, l'écriture est déroutante, l'imagination de l'héroïne nous emmène régulièrement sans prévenir dans un monde où tout est possible.
Published in 1929, this is the story of Judith Earle, a clever, sensitive, lonely girl, in thrall to the family of glamorous cousins that stay for summers in the house next door.
She's home educated and, until she goes to University, has hardly any other companions of her own age and no experience of how to be with them.
She's wide open and longing for affection, for experience and romance, and it's painful to watch her ricochet from crush to crush, through ill advised passion and perhaps to actual love.
Lehman's descriptions of the natural world are evocative and the there's an almost shocking eroticism lurking beneath the surface of this story.
My first book of Rosamond Lehmann's: it's touching, elegant, and beautifully stylised. I worry I will now need to read all her others; woe.
I bought this because apparently the sexuality of the main character, being attracted to both men and women, made it quite scandalous.
Unfortunately, I just found it a little dull.
The problem with the book was that it just felt totally juvenile.
The male characters all blended together and everyone felt very dull and posh.
To me the best part was the last section, it felt like people had grown up a little more.
The only character I really liked was Jennifer.
She seemed like a tragic lesbian caught in a children's story.
Oh, Judith. Judith, Judith, Judith. I love you, I am you and all your foolhardy ways. I really liked this book because Judith is basically cool as cucumber on the outside and a hot mess emotionally inside. The story is slow at parts (I basically could have done without the middle section about how awesome Jennifer is), but worth it in the end. If you don't find yourself screaming out loud "Judith, NO! DON'T!!!!" at one point, then you need mental help.
From BBC Radio 4 - 15 Minute Drama:Rosamund Lehmann's first novel Dusty Answer records the education of Judith Earle, the only child of an academic father and socialite mother. Judith grew up in the seclusion of a large riverside house in the Thames Valley. The house next door is occupied from time to time by the Fyfe family whose children - cousins Charlie, Roddy, Julian and Martin drift in and out of her life.
i really loved this book and took my time with it. although written in 1927, it is still terribly relevant. a beautiful coming of age story about a girl exploring love and friendship. i was really shocked by how lovely and wistful this novel was. lehmann was clearly a modern, forward thinking woman.
Oh this started so well and then collapsed into a morass of sentimentality and over-description! Two and a half stars - it was a first novel...
A writer in the tradition of Elizabeth Bowen and Elizabeth von Arnim. Wish I had discovered her during my college days .. I would have appreciated the book more...
What I liked most about this book was the insight into the characters. Also, strong female characters for the time it was written. Stayed in my mind for a long time afterwards.
I give this 3 1/2 stars. It was stunningly written--quite beautiful. I loved Judith as well. The story itself was a bit odd and meandering, though I enjoyed it for the most part. Other reviewers describe it much better than I can and some make excellent points.
3.5 stars.This was a lot better than the other classics I've read! Not the most fascinating of plots, but I read the whole thing without really stopping, and the prose can be fantastic when it wants to be.
Brilliant portrayal of damaged and broken lives.
Dusty Answer is Judith Earle's story—her solitary childhood spent in the seclusion of her riverside house, her awkward, intense experiences at Cambridge rounded with passion and disillusionment, and her travels abroad with her elegant, socialite mother. Above all, this novel is about Judith's consuming relationship with the Fyfe family, who each fall in love with Judith, transforming her young womanhood
E' proprio su Roddy che l'amore di Judith si concentra e cresce con il tempo, diventando un "amore angoscioso", a senso unico, struggente.Rosamond Lehmann descrive i sentimenti che legano Judith ai Fyfe, il suo senso di lontananza e allo stesso tempo di profonda complicità con loro, la rassicurante familiarità dei loro caratteri, anche a distanza di anni.
