https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/227603.Prozac_Nation
The reviewer implies that depression and mental illness isn't real pain and that you have to be a war victim to know what real pain is.
Suffering from mental illness does not equate to *just* being whiny, self-pitying or attention seeking; it may look like that's all depressed people are on the outside but those things are just the scabs on a deeper, festering wound.
You can't often tell that someone has cancer just by looking at them and you can't assume how they feel so why would being mentally ill be any different?
Whether you think Wurtzel herself is self-indulgent, whiny or attention-seeking is debatable.
But the rain was ominous. No denying it. It was the rain that Dylan sings about in “A Hard Rain’s A-Gonna Fall.” Where black is the color and none is the number and all that.  This book left me- for lack of a better word- confused. Even though this was my second time rereading Prozac Nation, I'm still unable to fully understand Elizabeth Wurtzel. Man, I hope she's  finally  ok.   Insanity is knowing that what you're doing is completely idiotic, but still, somehow, you just can't stop it.  This
Even though this was my second time rereading Prozac Nation, I'm still unable to fully understand Elizabeth Wurtzel.
Insanity is knowing that what you're doing is completely idiotic, but still, somehow, you just can't stop it.
This book makes me have some good flashbacks to my teen years listening to angsty music (save me Kurt Cobain!), whining, self-obsessing, and being dramatic AF in general.
I basically described Elizabeth.
A little compassion never hurt anybody.Let's talk about música (because music is life).
To quote Nietzsche, without music life would be a mistake.
Haven't we all been saved by music at some point in our lives?
Go listen to some music!
I love how people somehow think depression is about being privilegied or not. It's a chemical imbalance, and it happens regardless of money, status or skills.It's not like having the blues which you can shop your way out of!
I got it for free, so thank god for that, but it is so incredibly awful and whiny in an "I was so badass, you don't even know what it's like to suffer like me, now pity me and give me money" way that I only got about 20 pages in.
If you want to hear about real personal suffering and what it's like to really survive something awful, try prying the stories out of war victims past and present.
I'm tired of drug addicts and assholes writing about their self-absorbed past lives and glorifying it, and I'm tired of people eating it up and aspiring to be that way.
What do you know about anything?!” Like how she insists time and time again that she doesn’t have a substance abuse problem, complaining after months of boozing and pill popping and tripping, “why the hell does everyone always think the problem is drugs?” I mean, maybe depression drives her to drink and use drugs, but it doesn’t mean it’s not still a problem.
I mean, I feel like I have nothing to say but the same old words every time depression rears its ugly head in my life again and again.
this was the first book i read when i was given the diagnosis of "depression" and i immediately thought, "i am so not depressed!" the book is full of self-loathing and self-indulgence.
(and she blames the fact that everyone is depressed on broken homes.
(ETA: I meant all the statement above as separate - not that the fact I found her whiny and argumentative as evidence for a different diagnosis.
I would like to point out though that she WAS later diagnosed with BPD.
I was also commenting on the context of the situation I was given the book - depressed?
Wurtzel was raised by a single mother and basically abandoned by a father who refused to pay for therapy in her teen years, thus it took her a long time to finally enter a treatment program, find the right therapist, and begin the trial and error of medication.
If you know someone who is depressed and you want to get a better idea of what it's really like to be in his or her head for a little while, this memoir might be enlightening and it might give you more compassion for what that person struggles with every day of his or her life.I'd also like to add a bit of a political angle to all of this and say that I was disappointed that Wurtzel did not more vehemently criticize our health care system for its inadequacies and complete failure to meet the needs of those suffering with mental problems.
The biggest insight I gained out of this book was that it as so damn hard being depressed...that it took all your energy to do anything, and when feeling like things will never get better, even eating can just seem to much.
One really does get a sense of the weight a chronic-depressive carries on their shoulders....Looking back on the original review, I said her appearance, gender and race meant her experience meant it shouldn't be viewed as totemic for all of those who suffer from depression.
Does depression feel the same no matter your age, gender or appearance?
Never read a book in elementary, middle, or high school, but I did read alot of cliffs notes and I saw 'Lord of the Flies' on vhs.
VHS!
This book made me understand that it was ok to have a bad day, hell, a bad decade and that no matter how bad you think you have it, there is somebody else out there who has it worse.
If you're ever having a bad day, and think it can't get any worse, read this book and it will make your problems seem like nothing at all.
This book is just so important and powerful in showing what it's really like living with depression. Truly raw and brutal, but so insightful and beautiful. Trigger warning for anyone with depression, suicidal thoughts or self harm or any mental disorder should know that this book is definitely brutal and honest, so be aware of that. But I honestly tabbed SO many things because I could relate to it so much. What a memoir. I don't think I'll ever, ever forget it.
It shines light on the fact that you're not alone, that you aren't crazy, and that what you're feeling isn't something to be ashamed of.Just a side note, before I started this book I read some of the reviews and I'd just like to address something I saw in a lot of those reviews.
Many people called Wurtzel "self-indulgent and whiny." If you've read the book and thought that then you have obviously never been seriously depressed.
When you are seriously depressed all you are is self-indulgent and whiny.
You become completely self absorbed and I think Wurtzel is just being brutally honest in her description of depression.
Somehow, I had decided that it was going to be a mix between a memoir and a sociological look at how antidepressants are prescribed with little to no consideration of a patient's actual pathology.
Elizabeth Wurtzel can't make it through one page with out using about five Capital Letter Nouns to illustrate how intelligent she is, and isn't it a shame to see it all going to waste?
In short, she is exhausting, repetitive, boring and a whole slew of other synonyms for atrocious that, maybe if I was as smart as the author, I could bore you with for 300-plus pages.
DNFI didn't feel like this book captured what it's like to be depressed.
Having depression myself, I can understand the self-worth and meaning of the life that comes with it, but Wurtzel's version of it is narcissistic and selfish.
She is whiny and expects everyone in her life to care only for her.
I'm kind of mad at her because she's pushing everyone away and saying no one is helping me, well if you won't accept it - how you will get it?
I doubt this book can help for people who are looking for an answers or learning "what depressed person feels like" there's not a lot of thing to learn from the memoir.
A book for all Seasons: book I can identify with"How can you hide from what never goes away?"-Heraclitus
it's certainly worth noting if the reader suffers from depression because the cyclical patterns she experiences are incredibly relatable.
and the honesty inspires the reader who suffers from depression; the fact that a memoir is being written is, let's face it, to relate an experience to others and how the experience came to be.
a living author only writes a memoir about depression for two reasons: to expose information on its prevalence, or to explain how the writer survived.
so the depressed reader is really expecting a hell of a gem resolution when the writer relays her experience with suicidal behavior.
People hate on this book because Elizabeth Wurtzel is so whiny, ungrateful, etc - but she was writing a book on personal depression.
She writes a true portrait of chronic depression - not the romantic melancholia of most books, but the rough reality of a disease - how it follows you like a shadow, turns you into a dependent whirlwind of simultaneous highs and lows that cannot be predicted, and just how damn hard you make it for people to love you when you don't love yourself.However, her writing style is a bit condescending, and her problems really are first world problems, but so much of what she says has described the ways I've felt before that I am almost creeped out by it.
Another thing I have to point out is if your as crippled by depression as the author of Prozac Nation liked to claim to be how in the world did she manage to make it through those classes at Harvard and graduate?
The powers that be are totally pushing mind control drugs like Prozac onto the masses in order to make them happy compliant slaves like in Huxleys Brave New World.
As far as general entertainment value I don't know who this book would appeal to except attention seeking self absorbed narcistic upper middle class young women who can afford things like shrinks, Prozac prescriptions and Harvard tuition bills.
If Wurtzel had gone more in depth with the topics she brings up in the epilogue about the nation's shift towards psychopharmacology and automatic gratification, this .
As a memoir, it could have been more centered and deliberate- but I understand why it's not.
Having several friends who have gone through depression (many in almost the same words as Wurtzel), I understand that the illness doesn't lend itself the linear, rational plotline I'd like it to.
But there's not a word about her mother (who admittedly was often more harm than good, but tried her best in a human way) and, more surprisingly, nothing about Dr Sterling- the therapist she claims over and over saved her life.
No one is obligated to do anything in a memoir but tell their story the way they want it told.An unlikeable protagonist is a hard thing to stomach however, and try as I might I could muster no sympathy for Wurtzel.
As someone who has experienced their own mental health struggle--and yes, even from a Jewish family--who very much wanted to find something to emphathize with in this book, I was sorely disappointed.
I'd be appalled to find out someone based their opinion of persons living with mental illness on this book.
Bipolar and depression memoirs have been done, and they've been done better.
Although my teacher tells me that this is not "literature," I would recommend it to anyone who is interested in depression issues or the genre of memoir.I sent this book to a friend and she hated it because of the main character, Lizzie.
This is what I love about this book.
It also touches on so many other topics like family, addiction, relationships, etc.If you have depression or know someone that does, I think that this book would be an eye opener.
The honesty and raw truths that are not held back are what makes this book successful, in my opinion.Again, it's much, much, much better than the movie!!!
No one at Harvard has as black of days as she does and, later in the epilogue, the implication is that while she is truly in need of her drugs most others on Prozaz are mere depression dilettantes.
So sorry you had to worry so much about getting a summer job because the Chicago Tribune turned you down even though you had previously written for a Texas paper, Seventeen, and won a prestigious writing award.
I have no doubts about the truth and depth of her depression, unfortunately she turned it into a self-indulgent cliche.
this book was a very important and helpful read for me.less important in light of aforementioned praise, but still frustrating: what's up with the name of the book and the first chapter?
and i'm wondering if the 'new' afterword by the author is her attempt to counteract the title.
her afterword talks about all the hype and controversey about prozac, and about her and others' concern that prozac is being trivialized and that depression is being trivialized due to criticism of prozac...but as far as i can tell her book title is feeding into that.
I almost felt like I needed Prozac after completing this.
I couldn't imagine going through life being as emotionally unstable and clingy as the author.
I did feel kind of unsettled by how quickly things come together by the books' end.
I guess when things are so out of control and it's not reality, it really doesn't need much of a resolution then does it?
Has she found something better in any of the new drugs that have come out since this book, e.g. Lexipro?
Has she been able to establish a career and a normal life?
I have a hard time with this book, the same way I do with a lot of confessional memoirs.
I have enormous sympathy for the condition she was/is in; I have a whole lot less for her generalizing her experiences.
Others say that it's unfair to hold Wurtzel's attractiveness, her privileged background, her intelligence, and her lifestyle against her.
The premise is that "This can happen to anyone!" What's disturbing is the little, tiny unsaid "(even someone like me)" that hovers over the whole work.
But I do understand that if she tried harder to get over herself, she would likely have fewer issues...and less to write about.
Who cares about cleaning up your apartment if your insides are broken and who cares about putting on lipstick if there's nothing in the whole god damn world who'd make you feel like a person by looking at the mirror...
We feel like the weakest.Maybe we're the weakest out of the stronger ones and the strongest out of the weak.This is no longer making sense.I recommend the memoir to people with depression AND people next to people who suffer from depression.
It is a nice, complex description of what it feels like living with this illness.
Wurtzel is brutally honest and self aware, she knows the pain she causes others but is powerless to change- "They have no idea how much energy and exasperation I am willing to suck out of them until I feel better.
She uses drugs to numb the pain and sabotages her romantic relationships in order to feel like she has a legitimate reason to be suffering.
People with depression are too often accused of being ungrateful, self indulgent, told they need to "get over themselves" because there are people less fortunate than them ect., but it doesn't work like that.
3.5 stars some lines were eerily similar to exact thoughts I had while on my depressed states and that legit fucked me up so bad.but this was a bit long. also I thought I'd read more about the breakthrough of SSRIs (particularly Prozac) in the 80's and its impact on mental health, specifically depression, in this book, because that's what THE TITLE PROMISES YOU, but there was only like, one chapter on that towards the end and that's it. but overall this was an enjoyable, hard-hitting, emotionally-charged read and the writing flowed very smoothly.
It has taken me 18months to read this book.
I picked up this book when my husband was diagnosed with depression and prescribed Prozac.
Every triumph she had in her life she did not recognise, every opportunity that presented itself to her wasn't enough.
She was too exhausting and I just knew by the final chapter she would not become any easier to get along with.
I began to recognise the dispair, vulnerability and isolation of her depression.
I thought I could before Reading this book.
Sometimes I would think shes very self-centered because having gone through it myself, I wasn't surrounded with so many people and friends that I could tell like she did.
I never knew all those things about Prozac, about how many people in this country feel the same way.
I learned about so many prescriptions and depression statistics, and even books and movies that I will see after having read this book.
I'd recommend it to anyone looking for inspiration, or just anyone who thinks they're the only one that feels that there is no way to run away from themselves, because in actuality there isn't.
Además, me parece muy acertada la forma en la que cuenta los hechos, ya que, el texto está dividido en diferentes partes.
Todo lo que cuenta sobre tener depresión durante mucho tiempo y que esa depresión esté mal diagnosticada es muy real para mí.
Esa identificación ha hecho que me cueste mucho más leerlo porque está claro que ella está en un lugar mejor cuando lo está escribiendo.
El momento en el que ella cuenta su experiencia al tomar antidepresivos también me parece muy cercana a mi experiencia porque también tardó bastante tiempo en hacerme algún tipo de efecto.Me ha parecido todo tan real y cercano que no sé qué sentir.
