https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114560.The_Mind_of_the_South
I have a certain "love" for the South that is more like fondness than actual love - because I am not a Southerner, and therefore I can never completely understand.
This book, however, is as close as I can get to understanding the real culture and heritage of the South and the way the Southerner (then and now) thinks.
W.J. Cash is a Southerner himself, and he was, in many ways, considered Benedict Arnold for publishing this book.
In my opinion, it doesn't paint the South in a negative light - it just sheds light on it, and helps put a finger on a culture that is often, strangely enough, misunderstood.
This book was written some 75 years ago, and it’s amazing to me how closely Southern attitudes, the social structure, the personals and political cants of that time, parallel those of the South today.
It’s most prescient in its depictions of how things were in the South prior to WWII and, as above, it will enlighten the reader in understanding this sub-culture of these United States, and in realizing how difficult it is to arrive at a national consensus on anything today.My rating: 19 of 20 stars
This still tops my list of "Books that cause fights."
It is impossible to conceive the great South as being, on the whole, more than a few steps removed from the frontier stage at the beginning of the Civil War." Instead, Cash alleges the aristocratic ideal was borrowed from successful Virginia planters and then merged with the realities of the frontier lifestyle which dominated most of the South.The entirety of Cash's dissection of the Southern character leads inexorably towards agreement with the notion that the South is inherently and irrevocably different from the North.
Cash's "The Mind of the South" is without a doubt the Rosetta stone of the Southern American mentality, a mentality that has proven remarkably durable against the vast changes experienced by the American South from the Civil War to today.This long essay is part social and intellectual history, part psychology, part confession from a Southerner who is trying make the general mindset of his fellow Southerners accessible to non-residents.
To my surprise, the book is something quite different: a study of how the experience of slavery and the loss of the Civil War had caused a rigid, defensive mindset for Southerners.
The defense of all things antebellum had united Southerners, allowing no room for dissenting views.
Cash obviously struggled with this view and tried to understand how it came about and remained so powerful.
His suffering (he committed suicide not long after this book was published) has produced a fascinating study that explains, even with mass media, American mobility and the Internet, how the South remains an aggressively distinctive part of this country.
This is a rather slow read as one must pause and think about the author's assumptions after every chapter.
Written in 1941, the book is dated but still presents a prescient look at the world today and the problems that have existed which initially divided the country into the "North" and the "South".
That does not mean that it shouldn't be read because it should as it presents some interesting ideas and attempts to speak to some commonly accepted misconceptions of the South.
Set in its ways, the South was reluctant to give up slavery, which economically was a failure.Cash interpretation of the Civil War would probably anger both northern and southern apologists.“The Civil War and Reconstruction represents in their aspect an attempt on the part of the Yankee to achieve by force what it had failed to achieve by political means: first, a free hand in the thievish aims of the tariff gang, and secondly, and far more fundamentally, the satisfaction of the instinctive urge of men in the mass to put down whatever differs from themselves—the will to make over the South in the prevailing American image and to sweep it into the main current of the nation.”He continues by pointing out that it appears the North was successful at Appomattox, but their victory was illusory.
Its intellect and historical importance deserve the highest rating, but as a modern reader, the outdated thinking related to African Americans and women is a little difficult. It's so incongruent with the profound understanding he exhibits about the South, as a whole.
If you are interested in that point of view and can wall off your concerns about what women or people of color (euphemism) thought and felt, then you may find this an interesting read.
"Violence, intolerance, aversion and suspicion toward new ideas, an incapacity for analysis, an inclination to act from feeling rather than from thought, an exaggerated individualism and too narrow concept of social responsibility, attachment to fictions and false values and a tendency to cruelty and injustice in the name of those values, sentimentality and a lack of realism - these have been the characteristic vices in the past.
Cash clearly has a great love for the South, but his "loyal son" status doesn't prevent him from criticizing and lamenting what he sees as the South's many failures and shortcomings.I bought this book in the late 1960s when I attended college in North Carolina, but it languished on my bookshelves for many years, until I finally picked it up and decided to read it in 2018, in part to see what light it might shed on the regional differences that seem to be on stark display in the United States today.
"The Mind of the South" is a sociological and economic look at the southern United States, written in 1941 by W.
J. Cash (himself a southerner).
The book-length version went on to become known as a definite work describing the history, sociology, and economic story of the southern states.Cash starts his narrative back before the Civil War, describing the southern frontiersman.
He goes on to write about the Civil War, Reconstruction, and the Great Depression.
Along the way, he writes at length about the cotton economy of the south, the shift to industry and the economic problems of cheap labor.
Published in 1941, this book is an honest attempt, for the time, to try and come to terms with what the South means for America.
While knowing that such evil and ignorant world views permeate our country, there can be no denying where and why they came to be.
The South is smug and full of denial with a profound unwillingness to look critically at how powerful and racist forces have harmed us all.
This book is an early effort to come to terms with how these forces have used and manipulated against the best interests of the entire country.
Excellent, monumental work that bears up well over the years.
sucked
This book won't blow you away but it is very informative as it makes clear the mentality of the south, specifically the mentality of white southerners. It details the culture & climate in its beginning before the Civil War & goes through how it grew up through the Civil Rights movement. An atmosphere of leisure & how that contributed to ignorance & fear is given much detail. Cash describes the obstinacy that resulted from that & how it intensified in the face of everyone &amp
This inability to deal with reality made the conditions ripe for the projection of all their fears, hatred & anger into black people.
As black people became competition for jobs after slavery, fighting for equal rights, the southern economy collapsed & unions developed, tensions rose & unable to understand or deal with the changes, tensions rose & so did violence.It's a very good book at a little over 400.
It's worth a read if you want to understand the conditions in the south, the mentality of white southerners & how it contributed to it's terrible history.
There is a South, and it is culturally unique within the United States.
However, its culture does not go back as far in time as the Cavalier myth of the "Old South" assumes.
Thus, the culture of the real Old South was simply a variation on the defining culture of the old United States.
The long conflict with the North, however, did give southerners a strong conviction in their cultural peculiarity.Then again, the "New South" was not as modern as many have assumed.
Cash's image of the South, therefore, is of a young culture, frozen in time to become a strangely old culture.A much better review is available on Goodreads here.
I was familiar with many of the broad ideas - the myth of the Lost Cause, a southern aristocracy, and so forth - but what I did not grasp was how these notions actually affected and shaped the psyche of individual Southerners.
I have deep, angular exclamation points in the margins of my copy of The Mind where Cash explains the origins of the southern habit of courting factory construction with tax cuts and accommodations so extreme as to more than negate any economic benefit of the jobs or associated social "progress".
The same Lost Cause arguments were probably being made at the point that the Georgia flag was changed, but they didn't make the same impact on me.This version of the book has an excellent introduction that puts the book into historical context and examines some of its limitations.
The book examines Southern identity from the 18th through mid-20th centuries, and in spite of its limitations, there is a reason that this is a classic still in print.
As I've gone on to more recent Southern history and analysis, it has a clear influence on those works, and parts of it are well borne out.
W.J. Cash's book published in 1941 before WWII is a work of scholarship exploring the white Southerner's mindset regarding the Civil War (War Between the States?), the lost cause, slavery, reconstruction, states' rights, racism, indentured servants, sharecroppers, politics, education and religion.
It's a compelling sociological analysis regarding cognitive dissonance and the dual identities denizens below the Mason-Dixon line have as both Americans and Southerners.
The South can be a mystery to outsiders and even for those who live there.
I recommend reading with a recently released (2013) companion book, THE NEW MIND OF THE SOUTH by Tracy Thompson.


There is a great deal here that presciently describes the present 2010 state of mind of "tea party nation," extending beyond the physical scope of "the South," as characterized in Cash's book.
I think it's an important read for anyone living in or interested in the culture of the south, but in spite of its application to the society of 2010, the book does not escape being solidly moored to many of the social and racial attitudes of its time of authorship.
If you read Faulkner, Gail Godwin, or other southern writers, this very well written reference is of great value.
Cash writes about cultural and economic events in the South and in the world that form the Southern Culture that is still visible today. Starting through the civil war and going up to the 40s, when the book was written, there are some great insights into the Southern way of thinking. The book is long, Cash writes vividly. There are some clinkers, on race, say, or women. If you push through for the big picture, though, there are things to be learned here. I enjoyed it and I am a little smarter about my adopted home.
this is a wonderful book for Southerners and "carpetbaggers" who want to understand how the South as it is came to be. I find it a little harsh towards the South in some respect, but I don't mind so much because it was written by a Southerner. I can understand his point of view after listening to story after story of the Confederacy from his grandfather while growing up in the economic and social chaos resulting from the Civil War.
An extremely comprehensive look at how Southern literature is influenced by its geography, it's no wonder why "The Mind of the South" is highly recommended even 60 years after its publication. Cash's writing makes this a fun read, but do expect it to be more on the academic side. It's extremely lengthy, but worth it if you're interested in Southern literature.
Fascinating. Early part of the book better -- the 1800's. Obviously a work that is dated but it captures some terrific perspectives. The role of women in the south -- their image, the symbols they represented. The cotton mills; the labor movement that wasn't; the role of education in the 1800's particularly was important to grasp.
Written in 1941, a classic and instructive to how the Southern mind thinks. Presumably some things have changed since 1941, but not everything. This becomes evident in various parts of the book. A prerequisite to reading the new book "The New Mind of the South".
This has gotten bumped up the to-read list because it's due back at the library before anything else. I'm currently in the middle of so many books, it's not even funny.ETA: Didn't get through this before it had to go back to the library. I'll try again this summer.
Difficult to read. But interesting perspective.
