https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/865347.The_Plantagenet_Prelude
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestThis is the fourth or fifth book I've read about Eleanor of Aquitane. To be honest, I've lost count. Eleanor is a favorite historical figure of mine, right up there with Cleopatra VII, Elizabeth Tudor, and Lucrezia Borgia. They are all card-carrying members of the bad ass ladies club: women who were born before their time, whose ambitions and sexual exploits created scandal and admiration and awe in equal parts.My first book about Eleanor w
This work, THE PLANTAGENET PRELUDE, falls between the two, although it is much closer to PROUD than it is to CAPTIVE.That isn't much of a surprise, though, considering Jean Plaidy is another pseudonym of the woman behind the popular Victoria Holt gothic novels.
It isn't long before Louis's religious fervor and fondness for crusades really starts to boil Eleanor's broccoli.Enter Henry II.
I think it's one of Holt's better works, and she does the story of Eleanor and Henry justice, ending on just the right note.
Plaidy/Holt writes Eleanor as I've always loved to imagine her: a strong-willed, terrifying woman who isn't here for your games.4 stars!
Book basically introduces us to the Plantegenet dynasty of Medieval England. It begins with the rule of King Stephan and ends with the death of Thomas Beckett. Eleanor of Aquitaine and Henry II are the main focus. From what I know of this turbulent marriage, what Plaidy presents is accurate. It's also not as romantic in language as many of her books are, so it was was more palatable for me. I'll continue with the series.
Jean Plaidy opens her Plantagenet Saga with the stories of Eleanor of Aquitaine, Henry II and Thomas Becket. While the language might occasionally seem a slight bit antiquated (likely on purpose, as the book was first published only about 4 decades ago), this doesn't diminish the enjoyment provided by the tale itself: a well-crafted historical fiction novel that remains a good read long after it first came out.
Eleanor Hibbert, under a number of pseudonyms, the most frequent of which was Jean Plaidy, was one of the most prolific writers of historical fiction in, well, in history.
When about to read your first book by a prolific novelist, such as Jean Plaidy was, there is always the same mixed feelings of anticipation and unease.
You can learn more by reading a history book, and there are not enough of the fiction writers arts on show here to elevate this novel above a factual account.
Recently I reread this and another Jean Plaidy book and was kind of appalled at how bad they were. As a pre-teen and teenager, I read pretty much every Plaidy novel I could get my hands on. The one good thing about her books, at least for me, is that they started my life-long fascination with English and European history. I'll always be grateful to the prolific author who set me on my way.
Jean Plaidy's Plantaganet books were my favorites.
The Plantagenet Prelude by Jean Plaidy is the story of Eleanor of Aquitaine.
It begins with her as a 15-year-old girl, a wealthy heiress who is “ripe for marriage.” She marries the gentle, pious, naïve King Louis of France and they have two daughters.
Their marriage creates a powerful empire and many children, but it falls apart because Henry cheats on her.There are many versions of this tale by many modern lady-authors.
Louis is more sympathetic, and Thomas a Becket is his traditional, saintly, noble figure.
The Plantagenet Prelude does not tell Eleanor’s complete story.
En fin, una mujer totalmente adelantada a su época a quien obligaron a casarse con el santurrón Luis VI pero que luego de lograr disolver ese matrimonio, encontró el amor con el joven y muy temperamental Enrique II, rey de Inglaterra.
Otra importante parte del libro habla también de la interesante vida de (santo) Thomas Becket, Arzobispo de Canterbury quien llevó una profunda relación de amistad con Enrique, la cual terminó con su muerte debido a sus constantes discusiones sobre los poderes del clero frente al Estado.
Un libro lleno de intrigas, traiciones, amor, infidelidad, muerte y manipulaciones; brillantemente escrito por Jean Plaidy...¡ahora tengo que leer los otros!
I love history, and have just moved from historical biographies to historical fiction.
Though as I'd expected, there were some 'moments' that were historically inaccurate or purely fictional.I could also overlook Jean's tendency to repeat certain phrases and adjectives, as the book was entertaining and some of history's greatest characters were brought vividly to life within its pages.She's not for everyone, and I wouldn't say she's my favourite historical fiction writer, but I'm more than content to sink into her books with a hot cuppa on hand - historical inaccuracies and some tedious repetition that can be overlooked...
This is a story of Henry II and Eleanor of Aquitane and, of course, Thomas Beckett.
It starts off in the usual Plaidy way with a lot of falling in love and big men (Plaidy's favourite word is 'vitality' and I actually started counted how many characters had this charming trait!!!)However this particular book then improved greatly when she moved into the political world and disputes between Henry and Thomas.
It gives a good overview of that sequence of events that leads to Thomas' murder and manages to show both men's motives but she gives the overall approval to Thomas.Enjoyable - not that challenging but as a mini history lesson it serves well!
She has another style than SKP since her book is mainly based on historical facts without the use of dialogues to tell us the story. But I really liked the beginning of Plantagenet's saga written by another greater writer on HF. I hope I will be able to get all books in this series.
I read a lot of Jean Plaidy’s historical fiction many years ago, and always enjoyed the stories she wound around the history of former times.We may deplore the lack of morals today, but if we can believe Jean Plaidy, then medieval times were far more scandalous.
Thus began the reign of William the Conqueror.All this I remembered, but then there was then a period from William’s death until the first of the Plantagenets, King Harold 2nd, ascended to the throne in 1154.
What happened in those years?That is what Jean Plaidy tells us in this book, and if you like history you will enjoy it.
Com alguns livros sobre a Guerra das Rosas que li nos últimos anos surgiu a curiosidade de saber como surgiu a dinastia que termina (de vez, não oficialmente) no fim desta guerra.
Jean Plaidy, pseudónimo de Eleanor Burford, lançou vários livros sobre este e outros períodos da história inglesa e francesa nos anos 70 e pareceu-me uma aposta interessante para conhecer melhor este período.A escrita podia ser melhor, mas dou-lhe o desconto do tempo e além disso não os li apenas na perspetiva de romance, mas mais na perspetiva de curiosidade histórica e esse papel eles cumprem bem.
Uma leitura interessante para os amantes de história e não apenas de romances históricos.
Actually rating 2.5 starsCompared to The Summer Queen by Elizabeth Chadwick I found this first volume of the Plantagenets a little too dull, it is like reading a history book without feeling the dialogue and emotions of the characters.Eleanor was a very modern woman compared to the women of that time but she was also vain, selfish and greedy for power. I will continue this series and I hope that the writing will become much more entertaining and detailed.
Great book and great start to what I know is going to be a wonderful series on my favorite English historical family - The Plantagenets! I just love this author and how she wrote - it is constantly a page turner and you enjoy reading every written word. This first book is mainly about the start of the family i.e., Queen Eleanor of Aquitaine and King Henry II. A must read if you enjoy reading about The Plantagenets!
My full review can be found on my blog: https://brooklynthebookworm.wordpress...Truthfully this book was a massive disappointment to me. I loved Jean Plaidy's book, "St Thomas's Eve" and as a massive history buff, I had huge expectations to enjoy this, but alas, it wasn't to be. I will continue reading the author, but I can't say I'll rush and continue this 14 part book series. *sigh*.
O começo da dinastia que definiu os rumos da Inglaterra. A narrativa é um pouco apressada e, como todo romance histórico, não é totalmente verídica. Mas é um livro muito agradável de ler e cheio de acontecimentos.
I do not like Plaidy’s writing style, there is no art or magic to it, but she writes well enough to read when I want to get a better idea of which king/Queen followed which and why
I quite liked this book. I don't know how historically accurate it is, but I found it a fascinating read about a woman I knew nothing about.
Too much high drama and manufactured romance.
2.5/5
Her historical novels were very popular with the reading public, and she dealt with many time periods and dynasties including the Plantagenets, the Tudors, the Stuarts, and the Georgians.For my first foray into Jean Plaidy, I selected the first volume of her fourteen-book Plantagenet Saga entitled The Plantagenet Prelude.
Part II relates the growing estrangement between Eleanor and Henry but also focuses on the rocky relationship between Henry and the Archbishop Thomas Becket.One commonly touted rule of writing is, “Show, don’t tell.” This rule is not something that Jean Plaidy adhered to.
As an aspiring historical fiction author myself, I was excited to see someone else writing about the same time period I was interested in writing.
There are some rumors from the time embedded within the story that are probably not real, however within historical fiction I feel it's important to add a little legend to make the story more exciting.
The time period is one that an author can play with a little- there is room for interpretation and storytelling.That said, I do feel she should not be judged so harshly for following some rumors.
This novel is primarily about Eleanor of Aquitaine, from a year before her ascension to the Duchy of Aquitaine and the crown of France at age fifteen, to the murder of Thomas Becket when she was forty-nine.
There is, of course, Henry II, who I hate, and I love Eleanor's encounter with Rosamund de Clifford in this book.
And Thomas is a very saintly man, a man who, in Plaidy's novel, is not portrayed as a liar and a hypocrite, like he is in so many other works of historical fiction that like to paint Henry II as the betrayed-by-many "good guy".
When I discovered Jean Plaidy I decided I should read a series and selected Plantagenets.
Plaidy makes Eleanor (English spelling) and Henry so real that I smiled when I read their conversations and quarrels.Eleanor, who views herself as the queen of love, keeps looking for someone to love.
Marrying Louis of France, she discovers that he is no where near the man she wants.
And, he's a womanizer but she falls deeply in love with him.Securing a divorce from Louis, she and Henry marry immediately.
To keep Eleanor at the edge of his life, Henry wants to keep her pregnant.
It is the first book of Plaidy's Plantagenet series and follows the early years of Henry II and Eleanor of Aquitaine.
It covers Eleanor's marriage to Louis of France and her adventures in the Holy Land on Crusade to her meeting with Henry II.
Then it follows the early years of their marriage; Henry's betrayal with Rosamund Clifford and his battle with Thomas Becket.
Plaidy also portrays her as being willing to have affairs with whomever she pleases, including her uncle Raymond and Saladin, during her marriage to Louis.
Ultimately coming to view Eleanor as a necessary burden to achieve his ambitions.
She was married off to the young and newly Kinged Louis of France, who is attracted both by Aquitaine, which she inherits by default of no brothers, and her passionate nature.
When she frees herself from Louis by forcing an annulment, she promptly falls in love with and marries the future King Henry II of England, son of the temperamental Matilda (introduced in the Normandy series) and Geoffrey Plantagenet.Although their marriage begins with love, Henry’s refusal to remain faithful and insistence in keeping Eleanor “in her place” soon breeds hate.
Henry is a good king but a temperamental man who must get his own way.
This is one of the few books that I have started that I did not make myself finish.
By the time I was told the 10th time in the first chapter that Eleanore's father desired a male heir and Eleanore was offended by this idea, I was quite disappointed.
However, I pressed on hoping for the writing, or at least the story, to improve.
By the time she was contemplating an affair with Saladin (which, historically, could not have actually happened), I was done.
How people make it through this 14 book series, I have no idea.
The writing is ameteurish and condecending, the characters poorly developed, and the storyline historically inaccurate.
This is the third work of historical fiction I’ve read that focuses on King Henry II of England, Eleanor of Aquitaine (aka Queen of France, aka Queen of England), and Thomas Beckett.
All three personages are among the most fascinating in history.The second part of the book appealed to me more than the first.
How they met, how they were separated, and how they were reunited is a great tale, which is a well-portrayed “side-story” in this novel.Would’ve rated this book five stars if the author had refrained from repeating information so frequently.
For example: >‘You have told the King you will appeal to the Pope.
Where the story fell over for me, was that this woman was portrayed as an independent strong woman with a will of her own, then in the middle of the book, she became nothing more than a breeder for Henry II and by the end she was vaguely described as bitter and twisted.
The way that Eleanor was described in the middle of the book didn't seem to match up to the woman described in the beginning.
But if you are going to read this book don't expect to get emotionally caught up in the characters and their stories because it will not arouse anything more than a vague curiosity.
