https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1391333.The_War_Poems
Only now have I felt able to revisit these poets with a clear, open and comparatively unsullied mind.Sassoon is forever defined by his poems of the Great War and as a ’War Poet’ due to his literary output during and shortly after the Great War. This was something which was apparently very much to Sassoon’s’ chagrin – he survived the war and lived on until 1967 and produced much verse and prose in that time which was, as far as subject matter was concerned, unrelated to the Great War. This collection here includes purely poetry related to the Great War.As with Wilfred Owen (although in a somewhat different style) Sassoon provides here a wealth of well-crafted and intelligent poetry containing powerful, shocking and haunting imagery concerning the horrors and the savagery of war.
I believe that the purposes for which I and my fellow-soldiers entered upon this war should have been so clearly stated as to have made it impossible to change them, and that, had this been done, the objects which actuated us would now be attainable by negotiation.I have seen and endured the sufferings of the troops, and I can no longer be a party to prolong these sufferings for ends which I believe to be evil and unjust.I am not protesting against the conduct of the war, but against the political errors and insincerities for which the fighting men are being sacrificed.On behalf of those who are suffering now I make this protest against the deception which is being practiced on them; also I believe that I may help to destroy the callous complacence with which the majority of those at home regard the continuance of agonies which they do not share, and which they have not sufficient imagination to realize.Siegfried L.
Sassoon knew both Graves and Owen. These poems written during, or after, the Great War are at once dark, forbidding, cynical, and beautiful. Some poems are addressed to men Sassoon knew, such as Graves; while others address those who stay at home - from women, to the old men, to the boycotts. Some are addressed to the nameless dead. If you are interested in the Great War, you should add this to your reading list.
After finally finding it, I thought I'd read one or two poems but I couldn't stop.Siegfried Sassoon lived from 1886 until 1967 which means he personally witnessed both World Wars.
The government didn't punish him however but sent him to a special military hospital instead (probably because he was already quite famous at the time).
And he converted to Catholicism in 1957.I'm telling you all this because these seemingly contradictory characteristics are all mirrored in his works.As is to be expected with poems about war, the tone is mostly dark and bears a certain foreboding.
It's not an easy read, no matter which of the poems you pick.
Free download available at Project Gutenberg.CONTENTSIPRELUDE: THE TROOPSDREAMERSTHE REDEEMERTRENCH DUTYWIRERSBREAK OF DAYA WORKING PARTYSTAND-TO: GOOD FRIDAY MORNING"IN THE PINK"THE HEROBEFORE THE BATTLETHE ROADTWO HUNDRED YEARS AFTERTHE DREAMAT CARNOYBATTALION RELIEFTHE DUG-OUTTHE REAR-GUARDI STOOD WITH THE DEADSUICIDE IN TRENCHESATTACKCOUNTER-ATTACKTHE EFFECTREMORSEIN AN UNDERGROUND DRESSING-STATIONDIED OF WOUNDSII"THEY"BASE DETAILSLAMENTATIONSTHE GENERALHOW TO DIEEDITORIAL IMPRESSIONSFIGHT TO A FINISHATROCITIESTHE FATHERS"BLIGHTERS"GLORY OF WOMENTHEIR FRAILTYDOES IT MATTER?SURVIVORSJOY-BELLSARMS AND THE MANWHEN I'M AMONG A BLAZE OF LIGHTSTHE KISSTHE TOMBSTONE-MAKERTHE ONE-LEGGED MANRETURN OF THE HEROESIIITWELVE MONTHS AFTERTO ANY DEAD OFFICERSICK LEAVEBANISHMENTAUTUMNREPRESSION OF WAR EXPERIENCETOGETHERTHE HAWTHORN TREECONCERT PARTYNIGHT ON THE CONVOYA LETTER HOMERECONCILIATIONMEMORIAL TABLET (GREAT WAR)THE DEATH-BEDAFTERMATHSONG-BOOKS OF THE WAREVERYONE SANG
http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/45199As we mark the centeniary of the beginning of WW1, a war that I refuse to call 'Great, I shall dip into some Sassoon over the next four years even though I have marked it 'read'.ABOUT THE AUTHOR: Siegfried Loraine Sassoon, CBE, MC (8 September 1886 – 1 September 1967) was an eminent English poet, writer, and soldier.
Decorated for bravery on the Western Front, he became one of the leading poets of the First World War. His poetry both described the horrors of the trenches, and satirised the patriotic pretensions of those who, in Sassoon's view, were responsible for a jingoism-fuelled war.
(wiki sourced)
If anyone could make 140 characters sting or sing it would be Sassoon.He sucks you in with banality (the happy young soldier, the troops marching past a general) and then smacks you with a harsh reality (happy soldier commits suicide, the general gets these jovial troops slaughtered).
Or he does the opposite when he describes a heart broken man mourning his brother's loss and then ends it with a banal comment about how such men have lost "all patriotic feeling".
I used to call poetry 'sweetened condensed thought' but that's not adequate anymore because there's nothing sweet about Sassoon or others I've read since but there is that element of condensation.
One drawback is that he rarely uses anything other than direct rhyming conventions.
A lot of Sassoon's poems here ooze resentment both towards British families back home with little understanding of the horrors of the war and towards an establishment that makes heroes of the young men whose lives where thrown away frivolously.The other great World War I writers often mentioned are Wilfred Owen and Robert Graves.
I think Owen's war poems are the most beautiful and heart wrenching.
I think Sassoon's poems are the best at describing the frustration, futility and resentment in as little words as possible.
The human condition.
I mean no disrespect to those who have fought in wars for the New Zealand government (I hesitate to say 'for New Zealand' here) and to those who lost friends and family to the war, but there's a maudlin sentimentality to the way we approach the two Word Wars in this country that makes my gut churn.I think this is only going to get worse as we approach the 100th anniversary of the First World War. If I was in charge of the country, instead of the inevitable events and junkets and speeches and memorial services, I'd order 24-hour readings of books like Archie Baxter's 'We Shall Not Cease' and Robert Graves's 'Goodbye to All That' and let the voices of those who were there speak.I'm not an admirer of Sassoon's poetry per say, but I find his war history fascinating: inflamed with patriotism he enlisted prior to the declaration of war, and remained in the Army until he relinquished his commission on health grounds in 1919.
"You love us when we're heroes, home on leave,Or wounded in a mentionable place.You worship decorations; you believeThat chivalry redeems the war's disgrace.You make us shells. You listen with delight,By tales of dirt and danger fondly thrilled.You crown our distant ardours while we fight,And mourn our laurelled memories when we're killed.You can't believe that British troops “retire”When hell's last horror breaks them, and they run,Trampling the terrible corpses—blind with blood. O German mothe
You worship decorations; you believe That chivalry redeems the war's disgrace.
Sassoon's experiences in the trenches are laid out in stark detail, and even on paper it is difficult to handle.I tried to read this book in one sitting and had to stop because it was just so heart-wrenching.
I highly recommend this book, even if you're not a poetry enthusiast, if you want to know what it was like, what it was really like, to fight in the trenches of World War I.
Sassoon's poetry has long been a favorite of mine.
He ably captures the horrific experiences of a WWI soldier.
These soldiers aren't noble fighting machines; they are just ordinary guys dreaming of the mundane simplicities of life.Soldiers are citizens of death's gray land,Drawing no dividend from time's tomorrows.In the great hour of destiny they stand,Each with his feuds, and jealousies, and sorrows.Soldiers are sworn to action; they must winSome flaming, fatal climax with their lives.Soldiers are dreamers; when the guns beginThey think of firelit homes, clean beds, and wives.I see them in foul dugouts, gnawed by rats,And in the ruined trenches, lashed with rain,Dreaming of things they did with balls and bats,And mocked by hopeless longing to regainBank holidays, and picture shows, and spats,And going to the office in the train.Maybe war poetry like this should be mandatory reading for all political candidates who speak so easily of engaging the troops.
Loved it - Sassoon is surgical in the precision with which he characterises human feelings and emoti
This was in insight into a world so foreign to me and that was the reason I read it all. I am just not a poetry person but found it insteresting in regards to the subject.
very good
I was struck by two things: Sassoon's frequently expressed yearning for cleanliness, brightness, sunshine, flowers, trees, the life of the fox-hunting man - there was something very 'Georgian' in these pastoral loves and aspirations and longings; and how much I liked the post-Craiglockhart poems which I scarcely knew at all.
The scything satire of Atrocities and Return of the Heroes, was memorable too.But most of all I got a growing impression of Sassoon's sympathy for other soldiers, the ordinary conscripts, 'the unheroic Dead who fed the guns.' And with that, his contempt for those for whom, as in The General, the powers that be 'that did for them...
Over 100 short poems written between 1915 and 1919; plus a handful from 1926 and 1933.Sassoon's anger builds and builds, and he is utterly withering by the end.
These poems say more than any biography could about the man.It's an extraordinary collection, particularly for a British reader for whom the First World War is regarded as unmitigated lunacy.
Look no farther than Blackadder Goes Forth for a very British interpretation.More than once I read a verse and had to put the book down beside me.
War, in all its horror, condescended, captured, and retold.
'You are too young to fall asleep forever;And when you sleep you remind me of the dead' This collection is full of moving, descriptive and incredibly emotional poems. Sassoon is such and interesting person and his thoughts and emotion are shown clearly. They are so powerful and captivating that I was moved to tears many times while reading this. This collection is a must read.  Have you forgotten yet? Look up, and swear by the green of the spring that you'll neverforget
Review - I read this when I was in high school as part of a module on War Literature, but what really brought it home to me was a trip to northern France and Belgium on a tour of war sites i.e. Menin Gate, Thiepval, etc.
There is no better way to get a sense of the barbarity, loss and incredible strength in the First World War than by reading these poems in one of the places where men sacrificed themselves or are buried underfoot.General Subject/s?
- World War One / Poetry / War Poetry / LiteratureRecommend?
– YesRating - 20/20
I feel a little guilty rating this 3 stars when I consider where and when these poems were written. They are beautiful, and I enjoyed them. In particular, I enjoyed 'Suicide in Trenches', 'Base Details', 'Does It Matter?', 'Survivors', 'The Tombstone-Maker', 'Repression of War Experience' and 'The Hawthorn Tree'.
These poems were stunning. I'm kind of kicking myself for rushing through them, but oh well. They were so powerful, some were genuinely funny, and it takes an incredibly skilled writer to do that while rhyming.
Plus ça change...
3.5Favourites:At CarnoyThe Dug-Out"They"How To DieGlory of WomenDoes it Matter?Memorial Tablet (Great War)Everyone Sang

Well my dear teacher, the answer is that Sassoon's writing is like magic.
The raw emotion you can feel just by reading the war poems--JUST READ IT.Here are some of my favourites: To My Brother  Give me your hand, brother, search my face;Look in these eyes lest I should think of shame;For we have made an end of all things base.We are returning by the road we came.Your lot is with the ghost of soldiers dead,And I am in the field where the men must fight.But in the gloom I see your laurell'd headAnd through your victory I shall win the light.

Because the first World War began 100 years ago this year, I decided to pull out my (boxed) copy of a first edition of Siegried Sassoon's War Poems (London: William Heinemann, 1919) which I had never read.
I don't know much about World War I, but reading Sassoon's poetry of the war gave me a chilling "experience" of something of what it must have been like.
It left me longing for Keats in my immature heart and mind.I remember being told the story of him overcoming an enemy position and then, instead of calling for reinforcements, sitting down and reading a book.
At this time in my life, they strike at my heart for Sassoon is a poet who, in the true sense of a prophet, has said,  This is the world you have created...and it will get worse unless you do something.
After this introduction, one would be hard pressed to call him anything other than "the war poet." Still he deserves to be called...and read so much more.
I had always thought that Sassoon's poems would be too formal and stuffy for me, after reading a couple I decided - yeah they are formal, but they are certainly not stuffy, and I bought it there and then which is not something I often do - well done Foyles.
It's not just the anger that I find so exciting about these poems, it's the thought that that anger is entirely justified.
Something that we will never fully appreciate, but is portrayed extremely evocatively here.But basically, these are not just for English lit students, or just something you 'should read' they are actually pretty exciting and easy to grasp.
The work represents a cross section of Sassoon's stark and vivid poems from the beginning of the First World War to its end.The first collection of poems detail the characters and terrible sights he saw as an officer in Belgium and France.
That the new or continuing battles would be between generations and class as subsequent political events in England would show both before and after the later war,The poems are very difficult to read and are best tackled in two or three intense sittings to really appreciate their impact.http://www.bookdepository.com/?a_aid=...
