https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35889209-white-rose-black-forest
Author Eoin Dempsey presents Franka Gerber with a dilemma right from the beginning, then continues to turn up the heat as the story progresses.
Although Franka understands the danger that could come from her actions, she continues to do what she feels is right.The story is told through the eyes of several characters, although Franka is the main focus.
While I wasn’t always happy with the dialogue (at times, it felt a bit stilted), the characters stayed true to their basic motivations.As stated above, this historical fiction book turns into a thriller.
Another great kindle first book that I found difficult to put down. My only complaint is that I could have done with the conclusion of the book being a little longer as I just wanted to read about these characters a little longer, and it just felt a bit rushed at the end. Not enough to ruin the book, but I think a little more detail at the end would have made it even better.
White Rose, Black Forest was my Kindle First selection for February 2018.
While White Rose, Black Forest certainly painted a vivid picture of life under the rule of Hitler's National Socialist Party, it offered a perspective that was more empowering than depressing.
This is the first book I think I've read about any type of resistance organization founded by Germans against the Nazi party (of course I've read a lot about the French resistance in Nazi-occupied France).
This was a great war story about fighting for what's right, being brave in the face of fear, and getting second chances to live and love.
Shadows of My FatherThis is what my father did during WWII. And yes, this is what it was like, you went in with no one but yourself to depend upon and knowing that America denied knowing you if you got caught. These were the true heroes, but they knew no medals waited in the wings for them no matter how brave and strong they were. After all, they didn't exist!!
White Rose, Black Forest is the story of the White Rose, resistance in Nazi Germany who silently fought for the rights of Germans who hated what Hitler was doing to their people and country.
And the deep, dark and snow-ridden Black Forest where Franka Gerba’s family holiday home was located.
Franka had also lost her boyfriend and his sister; murdered when the White Rose was uncovered.
What would happen at the snow-covered cottage – their refuge – if the Gestapo came looking for them?White Rose, Black Forest is my first by Eoin Dempsey and I thoroughly enjoyed it.
This was free for Prime members on Kindle, so why not? Maybe I'll read it one day.

If you love historical fiction, you’ll definitely enjoy reading this story!
It’s a bit on a slower-pace side (a bit like All The Light We Cannot See, if you read that one) so if you’re into a fast-moving plot, you’ll only see some major action in the very end.
However, as Franka is braving the snow trying to help the German, he mutters something in English, and the charade starts unraveling, which will definitely keep you on the edge of your seat until the very end.
Another bland/generic WW2 narrative.
Historical fiction about rescue of an airman by a German resistor.
While I found elements to enjoy, such as basing it around resistors in Nazi Germany, there were quite a few inconsistencies in the plot, and I found it a bit contrived.
This book purports to be “based on a true story;” however, upon further research, it appears to be mostly fiction.
The White Rose organization existed, but the protagonist appears to be fabricated, along with the airman she rescues.
I wish the author had addressed which parts are historically based.
The book also employs terms that are inaccurate for the time and location.
I do enjoy a well written WW2 story, so when I read about this book I had to snap it up! What can I say ? It was disappointing , the story sounded so promising, but I am sad to say it did not live up to it’s promise. It is superficially written, has rather shallow characters and just did not work for me.I believe it is meant to be based on a true story, but there is little evidence of this.
DNF 51%. This book started with a great bang and I was so excited to be reading it. Then it just started to read like a text book, where the writing seemed almost to be conveying facts with such little emotion that I have been bored the last 30%. I'm sad, but I'm moving on.
Well done historical fiction about WWIIGood concept and great characters. The novel was extensively researched and the story was engaging. I highly recommend this excellent book
This is a story about an American spy and a Germany nurse who's paths cross during the WWII. It's a very unlikely pair with a desperate and dangerous mission.... This was a good read and a page turner, if you enjoy this gender, then this is for you.
I received this book through Kindle Firsts in February 2018.
I'll be honest; I've been in a book rut.
I start books and then lose interest quickly.
I thought I was done reading about WWII until this book came along.
What an adventure!
While there are many questions I had reading the first chapter they were all successfully answered later on.
It was so good I read it in a few hours and lost quite a bit of sleep.
This is my first experience with this author and I look forward to reading his other books.
Sorry - didn't really get on with this.
It's fine as a pulp adventure - but action was predicable, characters two dimensional and the ending very unsatisfactory.
Don't know if this is how the book was written or edited but I really don't like weird Americanisms in a book where the characters and action are European (The Girl from Krakow - I'm looking at you) and analogies such as when the author talks about the principle character removing some thoughts(?) like 'wiping bugs from a windshield' - frankly really wind me up - Is that appropriate for a tale set in the 1930s/40s?
Ending was pure soap opera and totally expected..
Sorry to be harsh.
The story of a German woman with anti-Nazi sentiments and and the American spy posing as a German soldier that she finds wounded in the snow and cares for in her secluded cabin. Would make a decent movie. The story moves along pretty well and the settings and characters are rounded out pretty well, but the dialogue is stilted and the romance contrived.
Happens to be the only book that intrigued me in months and of course, it's not out yet. I cry!
3 Stars In 1943, In Nazi Germany, MC Franka lives alone in her family's cabin in the Black Forest.
While out collecting firewood in the forest, she comes across an unconscious airman lying in the snow.
Being a nurse, she isn't willing to leave him to die.
She takes him to her isolated cabin despite her hatred of the regime he represents.
I wanted to like this way more than I did.
As far as the last 50 pages, it was the best part of the book, but I would have liked to have seen more of an extended conclusion.
Historical fiction heavy on the fiction and light on the facts (it seems like the only things that actually happened was the rise and fall of the White Rose resistance group).
The book is at it's best when it focuses on life in Germany under the Nazis.
It added a nice sense of paranoia.I wasn't so fond of the main characters, and especially not their love story.
(view spoiler)[They're gonna make it.
She tries to sacrifice her life to save him and help defeat the Nazis!
Miraculous escapes and miraculous stories of survival just don't work when the miracles aren't real.
White Rose, Black ForestWow! Loved this WWII book so much. Franka, a German Nurse, and John, an Allied Spy, had quite the adventure. I went with my husband on a Viking Rhine River Cruise last June and this story ends up in the Black Forest and Basel Switzerland which we were lucky to experience on our trip.
I am not usually a fiction reader, and had already guessed the ending by the time I read the book summary, but read it nonetheless.
Even having a pretty solid guess at how the book would end did not deter me from finishing the book in merely 2 days!
The trust-building between two strangers in a short amount of time was written in a believable manner, and I loved all the twists and adventures between the beginning and the end.
And without giving the story all away, I must say that if the book had ended any other way, I would have been disappointed.
I loved this book. A really great read if you enjoy Historical Fiction as I do. This story is about a woman who finds a soldier unconscious in the forest during World War II. She goes to great deal of trouble to save him. They both help each other during this terrible time of the Nazi regime. This is the second book I've read by this author having read Finding Rebecca which I also enjoyed. Looking forward to reading more books by Eoin Dempsey. I highly recommend this book...
Eh...I wanted to like this book. The story was compelling and from a fascinating POV but the dialogue..., oh the dialogue. Jack and Franka's interactions were stilted and without emotion. The dialogue was flat. I never believed the two characters fell in love because their interaction was emotionless. Bizarre.
In general, I did not end up agreeing with the numerous positive reviewers for this novel, which of course send me off on tangential concepts such as wondering how many of the reviews that are posted here are real or were purchased.
I read a very long article about how Amazon reviews are increasingly faked and so perhaps we have the same situation here at Goodreads.
Or perhaps my tastes simply do not agree with the many, many people who have already reviewed this book with positive reviews.
I like action, and I appreciate writers who know how to combine them all at once -War, romance, mystery (which I need in a book to think) into a good plot.
So while I was searching for my next reading, I came across "white rose, black forest" by Eoin Dempsey.
Anyone who reads books about the period of the World War 2 as a hobby must also know that everything written in papers, even if it is the imagination of the writer, must have happened somewhere in the same reality of that war.
I loved the writing and the plot.
Didn't reach any heights. The heroine was talented, brave and beautiful. The hero was strong, clever and handsome. They reveal their pasts. Evade the Gestapo to scape to Switzerland. A bit hackneyed. It even had a "Dear John" letter.
Started out really well but ended weakly. The plot could have been developed more.
The first 50 pages and last 50 pages of this book were compelling. It was the 150 pages of drudgery in the middle, as well as the unrealistic and forced dialogue, that makes this a 2-Star read.
Eh. I don't understand what all the fuss is about. Normally this is exactly what I'd love to read but I found the writing simple and the story predictable.
