https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30861.Woman_Hollering_Creek_and_Other_Stories
Last year I read Sandra Cisneros' House on Mango Street and felt an affinity toward her as I discovered that she grew up on the northwest side of Chicago and attended the University of Iowa Writers Workshop.
As in Mango Street, Woman Hollering Creek is a series of interlocking vignettes that all talk of one theme, here being Tejana women.
With an eclectic mix of cultural writing, wit, and humor, Cisneros in Woman Hollering Creek has demonstrated her growth as a writer since House on Mango Street.
This is my favourite fact about Sandra Cisneros: she bought a house in San Antonio, Texas and painted it purple, which caused uproar in the neighbourhood.When I grow up, I want to be Sandra Cisneros.
I want to be a great writer; paint my house an obnoxious colour; and court other people's hatred.Anyway.This collection of short stories is, like many collections of short stories, a bit of a mixed bag.
Some feel insubstantial; some are overly long.The great stories overshadow the mediocre ones, however.
Cisneros has a talent for making the banal feel poignant, and she attacks life's inequalities with a gritty humour.Three stars only because I can never get too excited about short stories.
I really enjoyed her poetry collection "My Wicked Wicked Ways." I recommend people check it out.
However, this collection of short stories were bland to me.
But these stories are don't have much plot driving them.
The collection's literary value comes from the variety of Chicana experience it includes.
There are many different women here.
However, a man is central to almost all of them and certainly to all of the more developed stories.
Those two books plus Their Eyes Were Watching God would make for an interesting seminar on the way women allow men to form their lives.
So many stories in this book are absolute art. There are perhaps two or three tales that did not grip me, but otherwise I have read all the others at least five times over the years. Cisneros truly found her voice here - poetic, hypnotic, erotic storytelling with multi-cultural and feminist undertones. I truly envy her gift in this collection.
4.5. I love this collection so much! I can't wait to re-read it in the future. I love all the stories of these complex women and their various experiences in life. It was beautiful and I love the mixture of Spanish and English. Just so so lovely, emotional, and i'm happy this collection exists.
This collection of stories is my new bible. Long live Sandra Cisneros!
SIX WORD REVIEW: My students would love "My Tocaya".
Sandra Cisneros writes in the voice of my mother, my grandmother, my aunts, my sisters, and my friends. I experience every word as if I'm a child overhearing the adults' kitchen table conversations. I am intimately familiar with the sights and smells of her settings and the joys and frustrations of her characters. These stories didn't leave me with a feeling of nostalgia, but with that feeling of having shared life-shaping experiences with your best friend.
This book Woman Hollering Creek and Other Stories published 1991, shows Cisneros developing her voice.
Only one section/collection of micro-stories, "Little Miracles, Kept Promises" has a hint of ungenuity.
This a writer who has arrived.I saw Cisneros speak at Del Mar College in Corpus Christi in early 1995, after Woman Hollering Creek and Other Stories and before Caramelo.
While much of what is described in these stories are about the experience of being Tex-Mex, the universals are also included in these pieces.
Many who respect/love Cisneros are familiar with this stories.
3.5 stars.I have this dream where one day I anthologize all my favorite short stories.
A couple of stories from this collection would make that anthology easily.
Especially the title story which I adored.What Sandra Cisneros does best is give voice to women so often silenced.
A lot of somethings.I would hesitate to call this a short story collection.
It's more of a collection of short writings.
But they are tied together by female voices and themes of oppression, celebration of culture, and the ways in which women are often beholden to the men in their lives.
Instead of being drawn into Cisneros's voice or themes, I found the execution of the stories to be largely frustrating.
Cisneros likes to use lists in her stories, lists of sounds, lists of items for sale at the grocery, lists of things that remind her of a child's ear, etc.
I wanted to like her insight into Mexican-American culture.
I wanted to like the feminist angle to the stories.
If these features appeal to you, so likely will her stories.
If, like me, you prefer more plot and fewer lists, then go elsewhere.
Fusing poetry and prose that makes one laugh, and cry at the same time, I find that Cisneros' collection outdoes her more famous masterpiece, The House on Mango Street.
Here the voices of women on the Texas/Mexican border are all too real, full of pain, sorrow and a lot of love and hate to spare.
The best stories include the title story, and the hilariously funny and sad Never Marry a Mexican.
Provocative, sexy and proud, it's no wonder why Junot Diaz dedicated his last collection to Sandra Cisneros, and what an influence her writing has been on him and a generation of other multicultural writers and poets.
The quality of the writing, the tone, the technicality of it merits a high rating but I got fed up with the underlying theme pretty fast and it is on this basis that my final rating lies.
It just got boring, fast, unfortunately.
Because Sandra Cisneros is one of my favourite authors and the short story with the kids in front of the church got off to such a good start I was optimistic but I just didn't want to go back to these empty women stretching out this reading experience a whole 2 months and 1 week, yikes.
I'm cheating here because we only read three stories, but her writing is addictive and I loved each piece. A simplistic writing style, yet such powerful stories with equally meaningful messages. I might revisit this one later to read some more from it when I have the time and the will...
- In language, setting, and people getting together and parting there is so much beautiful border crossing - bien suffering and liberating. Truly, amar es vivir which includes human love and love for creating stories and art. The story that sing will remain with me.
This book name is Woman Hollering Creek and Other Stories talk about many different stories about the author. This book have many stories. Stories are simple and usual but it contain a lot of profound truth. It shows me some things that only mature woman think about. It talks about many love. I think this book doesn’t fit me, but it’s a really good book.
Beautifully written. Poetry and realism come together to relay stories of Latinos and their community.
The story itself was very confusing at first but as I began to read it, you meet a girl who is trying to live the life of a soap opera but seems to be stuck in what people would consider reality.
As a reader you first come across this when Juan Pedro strikes Cleofilas for the first time, when he hits her she expected to run off crying like they do in the shows but instead she just stays there with him and strokes his head as he cries.
I think she's amazing -- you can smell and taste her stories.
I had saved one long story for last, so I think I'll just go to the library and read it there.
Such interesting characters, lots of them bi-cultural back and forth between the US and Mexico.
A young hispanic woman from Texas marries a man from Mexico, and he turns out to be a phony and an abuser.
When she is rescued by an informal network and returned home to the states, the woman who gives her the ride (in her own truck) hollers in victory as they go over the bridge -- a completely different sort of holler than she had been able to imagine until then.
Sandra Cisneros is a powerful, beautiful writer.
She is so impactful that I used her name for my Starbucks order the other night (and that is one of the highest places of honor I can give anyone).
There were moments in her stories where I had to sit back and stop because her imagery is so natural, it shocks you.
It's nothing you'd expected but placed perfectly at the right times to leave you bursting with colors and thoughts.
Some of the stories that stick out to me are: Eleven, One Holy Night, and Eyes of Zapata.
It is apropos that I should read this collection now, what with all the racism being dredged up by Trump and his like-minded ilk, that we need a reminder once in a while that Americans of Mexican descent, as well as later immigrants and even the less legal ones, are a deeply entwined, and large, part of the fabric that holds this country together.
And no one that I can think of is better at providing glimpses into that world than Sandra Cisneros.
And often with a feminist tint, more prevalent with latinas than I think many people believe.
Written by an author with a powerful and distinct voice (she frequently lapses into snippets of Spanish), the book makes for a challenging read.
But it's worth persisting, if only for the short story "Eleven" (which features a feisty eleven-year-old narrator) and the inspiring call for more real-to-life women in pop culture: "I want them to be women who make things happen, not women who things happen to....Real women.
The ones I've loved all my life...>The ones I've known everywhere except on TV, in books and magazines.
Las girlfriends.
Las comadres.
Our mamas and tias.
Passionate and powerful, tender and volatile, brave.
As with many collections, there are some stories here that I loved, but some that were just okay.
The title story was wonderful.
I loved the vivid pictures she painted in that and many of the stories.
I lived in Texas for 16 years with many of those years being in San Antonio so I appreciated many of the references.
I had to smile when in the final story she waxed poetic about grackles.
Grackles can be noisy and annoying, but they are also beautiful in their own way and cannot be ignored.
She called them urracas and finished off the book highlighting them.
I read this book in conjunction with The House on Mango Street and recommend reading that book first. This book feels like it starts where the other leaves off with much more adult themes and as a result many more emotional facets. What struck me most was her descriptions of the scents of things. Reading this book was like eating a five course meal and I enjoyed every morsel. I appreciate the multilayers of the small stories and just being led wherever the author chose to take me. It's a wonderful ride!
I love Cisneros's writing. This is clearly poetic in nature, and there is really no plot. But she paints a vivid picture. This is a series of essays, set in the US and in Mexico. Cisneros uses a lot of Spanish in these stories and most of my book club members (both book clubs) did not appreciate them very much. But I find her works immensely enjoyable.
This book was recomended by novelist and book editor Jenny Shank as part of the Rocky Mountain Land Library's "A Reading List For the President Elect: A Western Primer for the Next Administration."
My Spanish teacher recommended I read something in Spanish. I went looking for Isabel Allende stories, saw this and decided that, for the same reasons Cisneros isn't as good a writer as Allende, she'll be easier to read. And I liked The House on Mango Street.
I read this collection of short stories during my women in literature class in college. Each story offers an amazing tale. Every woman (and man) should read this.
Despite being burnt out on short stories, I still thoroughly enjoyed reading this collection. Sandra Cisneros is one of the most beautiful writers I have ever read.
i liked a few stories in this book. Her writing is superb as usual but most of the stories I just thought they were ok.
