https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/118413.The_Bedbug_and_Selected_Poetry

'Poetry is what's lost in translation,' yadda yadda, but Mayakovsky's English effigy is compelling nonetheless.
A high-school teacher assigned 'A Cloud in Trousers'--out of Koch's Word on the Wind anthology--and I was officially obsessed.
This book was a dogearred angsty missal.
Mayakovsky's gruff, Rodchenko-posed image even adorned my locker door, just below Camus (that one in profile, cigarette daggling from his lips, overcoat collar Bogartishly turned-up) and Baudelaire (haunted and haggard, in one of Carjat's portraits).
This book, plus Les Fleurs du Mal, The Rebel, Poem of the Deep Song and Absalom, Absalom!
I love to watch children dying.Do you note, behind protruding nostalgia,the shadowy billow of laughter's surf?But I -in the reading room of the streets -have leafed so often through the volume of the coffin.Midnightwith sodden hands has fingeredmeand the battered paling,and the crazy cathedral gallopedin drops of downpour upon the cupola's bald pate.I have seen Christ escape from an icon,and the slush tearfully kissthe wind-swept fringe of his tunic.At bricks I bawl,thrusting the dagger of desperate wordsinto the swollen pulp of the sky:"Sun!Father mine!If at least thou wouldst have mercy and stop tormening me!For my blood thou spilled gushes down this nether road.That is my soul yonderin tatters of torn cloudagainst a burnt-out skyupon the rusted cross of the belfry!Time!You lame icon-painter,will you at least daub my countenanceand frame it as a freak of this age!I am as lonely as the only eyeof a man on his way to the blind!"- A Few Words About Myself, pg.
Why bother thento balance mutual sorrows, pains, and hurts.Behold what quiet settles on the world.Night wraps the sky in tribute from the stars.In hours like these, one rises to addressThe ages, history, and all creation.”In “The Bedbug,” a delightfully satirical and amusing play, Mayakovsky uses the figure of Prisypkin, a former Party member in about 1920, to contrast those dedicated to the purity of the Revolution with those intent on working for their own material and social advantage.
Read "Conversation with a Tax Collector About Poetry"
لدى البالغين مهامٌ كثيرة جيوبهم محشوةبالروبلات.الحب؟بالتأكيد!بما قيمته حوالي مئة روبل.أما أنا،الذي لا بيت لي،فأقحميديّفي جيوبي الممزقةوأمشي مترهلًاوعيناي جاحظتان.إنه الليل.ترتدين أجمل ثيابكِوتسترخين برفقة الزوجات والأرامل.موسكو،بحلقة طرقاتها المستديرةاللامتناهية،تخنقني في عناقاتها.قلوب العشيقاتتدق ” تيك تاك”،وعلى سرير الحب يشعر الشريكانبالنشوة.متمددًا مثل ” ساحة الشغف”،أقبض على دقات القلب المجنونةللمدن الكبرىمشرّعاً– وقلبي يكاد يطفو على السطح –أفتح نفسي للشمس والوحل.اخترقوني بولعكم!تسلقوني بحبكم!فالآن فقدت السيطرة على قلبي.أعرف أين تكمن قلوبالآخرين:في الصدر – كما يعلم الجميع!أما معيفقد جن جنون علم التشريح:كأني لا شيء فيّ سوى القلبهادرًا في كل مكان.آن، كم من أوقاتالربيعتراكمت في جسدي المحموم طوال هذهالسنين!حملها غير المهرق لا يطاق.لا يطاق أقول،لا بالمعنى المجازي،لا شعرًا،بل حرفيًا.
Mayakovsy's poems are filled with depressing lines, like, "I love to see children die..." When I first read this line in Russian, I thought I had the second verb wrong.
But the poem I cite suggests he would have, had he the chance.
His play Bedbug, here, has quite a bit of slapstick--about marriage between a heiress and a working stiff, then futuristic robots.
But the Bedbug ages pretty well, esp in the Max Hayward trans.
After all, it's from 1930, but seems more like the fifties.
Wonderful final scenes of proletarian man on exhibit in a zoo, with a bedbug--both exotica in the future.
I felt smashed in the face on nearly every page, some of the lines burnt my eyes (or tongue if I read them aloud) and I felt alive with the lines elevating my pulse, my blood pressure, and reviving a weary body and encouraging a vivid mind to continue a losing game - exactly because books and writers like Mayakovsky existed.
As for The Bedbug, it is a play with a most curious twist, rather extraordinary and ahead of its time.
It can be read on many levels, which is the beauty of this unique play.
Mayakovsky is notoriously difficult to translate, so I have little to say of the translation. Many older compilations suffer from an excessive focus on his Soviet themed odes to Lenin and the revolution. This book has an entirely appropriate focus on his lyric poetry and his love poems. For those interested in avant garde literature or in Russian poetry in the 20th century, this is a great read.
The great Russian futurist many people never really have ever read or heard of. Surreal, sarcastic, biting, self deprecating, and tender at times. A lot of his later work reads like Bolshevik propaganda, but when he hits his stride, like in "A Cloud In Trousers," he's simply amazing.
My favorite poem in this collection is "The Cloud in Trousers."
He had that fire I look for and rarely find. I like my poetry hot, so hot the flames leap from the page. God. Yes.
I really liked some of the poems, others just weren't for me. I rounded up since I didn't finish the play and can't really make an honest comment on it.
Really beautiful at times and not like much else. Very angry. The Bedbug was fun

i cant even have this book near me because i would transcribe the whole damn thing here, because it is astoundingly somethingvladia! where are you now! please do you hear me? do you hear me!you know i am listening!you are such a bear, and you know that with a smile....but thats just a look.you are a darling.i love and miss you with my own fifteen-bear-strength...i miss even your books just beyond my reach, even if i can see them i am missing you and shaking with an unreasonable jealousy that i am ashamed of!but...and i am smiling too. hey vladia!hye!
Some really intense poetry that's almost visual. Um, let's see...it's the Russian Revolution and love gone cosmically wrong seen throught the crazy, fatalistic, angst-riddled eyes of Mayakovsky (he was a big fan of hyperbole). His experiments with rhythm and spacing and lenght of lines are pretty creative. And there's the original Russian versions right across from the English translation. But the version of the slapstick yet tragic Bedbug while great is highly edited from the original which makes it streamlined but a little diappointing.
The Bedbug is one of my favorite plays, so this is a re-read. Full of crazy scenes. At his wedding, the protagonist gets into a fight to defend his bride, her veil catches fire, the fumes from all the alcohol set the hall ablaze, the firemen get there two hours later to flood the place but the protagonist is never found. Fifty years later the body is found, frozen in the basement and revived (along with his bedbug!).
I have only read "The Bedbug" and I highly recommend it to you all. I love the fictional satiric way the author chooses to deal with socio/political issues. The play is funny and wit, coming up with the idea and writing it definitely reflects the author's ingenuity.My only regret is that I cannot read or understand Russian and so I had to read a translated version which I believe takes out some of the beauty of the words and rhymes.Definitely, a fan of Mayakovsky
I honestly had a better translation of the bedbug copied from an alternate source. Mayakovsky is the "loneliest eye on the way to the blind!" If there were the monarch butterfly in the socialist cannon, he is surely a cloud in trousers. As Evgeny Zamyatov says with paraphrased: Mayakovsky was the Futurists and he was one of the great poets. If there was no Mayakovsky, the futurists are nothing and the world has lost one of the greatest.
If you like modern experimental Russian poetry, check it out. I find the Russian sensibility one of my favorites, and this book gives a good overview of his work for the Western reader. I like seeing the original Russian on the facing page, but my knowledge of the language makes it look like gibberish, so I can't compare the translated verse to their original cognates. Worth the journey, if you like poetry at all. A dwindling breed for sure.
I bought this book yonks ago, when I read an article on him in the New Yorker. For some reason I read it on the subway, and I loved it. It's a bit histrionic, but the little biographical snippets in the footnotes are interesting. One time he read a poem out to a group of friends and they laughed at him, and he ran out crying. One of his books was banned as indecent in Latvia. Bet that was great publicity.
Audacious. Unapologetic. Surprisingly comical, of course, with a sardonic twist. Brooding & yet full of vigor. Ostentatious with an actual license to be. In the introduction it is apparent that the man was every bit as demagogic as his boisterous word. And still, he thoroughly occupies the mold with the cliché of so many great artists. At least his creative & powerful voice lives on for us to enjoy.
I liked the introduction and the selection, which comprehends most of his work. The english rendering is really not bad, but the translation inaccuracies are way too compromising. I've read Andrey Kneller's translation of "Backbone Flute" (my all-time favorite) and liked it much much better.
Absolutely one of my favorite poets of all time. Later poems get bogged down in ideology but early poems are pure energy and insanity. Reminds me a lot of Brook, too, read this book and see if you have a similar reaction.
Poetry written with an ear to the sounds of the street corner, the backyard, the factory, and the bedroom. Amazing. "The Backbone Flute" is a lyric that snakes through the grass at night on the tips of dew.
"They understand,  the smart fellows:here is a man in ecstasy.The assembly of visions  and ideasis brimmed to the lid.Here even bearsmight grow wings."
Bombast and brilliance penned one over the other.
the best introduction in english to one of the most underappreciated geniuses of the 20th century; a renaissance man. believe in change.
Yes it is self absorbed & depressing... That is the definition of the genre & why both he & Yeats are tattooed on my arms
