https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10274183-the-eternal-philistine
The old philistine believes in ideals like Art and the League of Nations and Universal Humanity, despite never having understood anything he's read.
The new philistine believes only in his own wallet and penis, sees no need to justify his revolting actions, and never bothered to read anything at all.
As a special bonus, Shalom Auslander's introduction is so perfect that I immediately went out to buy his novel.
Hence making his introduction, about the speed with which funny books go out of print, even more perfect.
(I blame all the Simenon books for leading me in that direction!)With that said, Horvath's 'The Eternal Philistine' is probably not the best place to start if you're new to Neversink territory.
the eternal philistine
throughout with his characters using juvenile potty humor by calling each other and themselves shitheads, but other than that, the story falls flat and is all over the place.
Perhaps, it's meant to, but ultimately is a bore.Some books should really only be published once, left in the hands of the few; not truly being worth of re-publishing in any language.
Particularly during Kobler's train voyage -- the attitudes that various strangers from different regions and countries took toward one another, not to mention remarks on cities and geographical features they passed through or by -- I felt repeatedly frustrated that I just had no context to place these in.Despite all my lack of prior knowledge, The Eternal Philistine still managed to convey a great deal about its time and place, but even more about the universal state of people caught up in societal forces beyond their control.
And the even briefer final section attempts to end things on a modestly hopeful note with the altruistic gesture of Herr Reithofer, a down-and-out Austrian living in Munich who can't even collect unemployment insurance because he's not a German citizen; even after he had been shamefully led on by Anna, who gets him to pay for a movie despite his straitened circumstances, then refuses him sex unless he pays for it, Reithofer presents her with a job lead that he happens upon serendipitously, while drowning his sorrows with a 30-pfennig beer.Mildly amusing at times - not so funny as Shalom Auslander, who wrote the introduction (which, I agree with the readers below, is very good), makes out - the novel nevertheless didn't resonate with me, perhaps because it's so dated in its style and politics.
This short book tells the story of a German used-car salesman on a train trip to the 1929 Barcelona world's fair, hoping to find there some diversion, mostly in the form of available women. He encounters a journalist also on his way there, with similar ideas. Their misadventures, and their meditations upon the state of the Europe between-the-wars, are both hilarious and prophetic. Don't skip the introduction by Shalom Auslander, it is perhaps even funnier than the book itself.
The introduction is one of the most forceful, persuasive and damned funny arguments for satire you'll ever read.The book itself is somehow no less biting even the better part of a century later.
Like the writer of Anderson's WINESBURG, OHIO, the protagonist of the first part, Alfons Kobler, experiences a similar "dream that was not a dream".Indeed, he encounters many grotesque characters, all philistines.
45)Kobler's "dream that was not a dream" is best expressed in a passage (reminiscent of the passage from WINESBURG, OHIO) following the first leg of his travels..."All the people he had come into contact with in the last twelve hours now appeared before his his mind's eye, only this time everybody made just one gesture.
Originally published in German in 1930, I'd be curious as to how well the translation holds up to the original. I read some back-and-forth comments regarding the use of the word "philistine," for example. Overall, I found it an interesting and enjoyable book, but you can draw your own conclusions...."If all the shitheads went and helped each other out, then every shithead would be better off. Yeah, shitheads should help each other more often--it's just downright indecent not to help somebody when you can" (p. 159).
Really liked it. Very post-K&K. Reads lovely in German...
7.5/10
Eher langweilig. Die ursprüngliche Wut und Botschaft dieses Romans ist leider für den heutigen Leser kaum mehr wahrnehmbar und erfahrbar. Eines dieser Bücher, die denkbar schlecht gealtert sind.
Shalom Auslander's introduction to this book is definitely one of the better ones I've read. It was extremely witty and enjoyable to read. The novel itself, though short, was also a pleasure to read. The plot was kept simple but the themes and nuances sufficiently profound. One's appreciation of the content may be discounted if one lacks the knowledge of historical background, seeing how this was set post WWI period. Nevertheless, Horvath's writing style is so excellent that I believe any good reader would be able to find in The Eternal Philistine a very satisfying and engaging read.
When my friend Shane brought this book to me- he promised it to be a literature "snack". Although the book was short- it was rich with content. Horvath is a brilliant humorist who rote in Germany before World War II and later faced prosecution from the Nazis which forced him to leave his country. His writing is concise and pithy- and an overall joy to read!
Reading this as research, I really did not expect to fall in love with it as much as I did. It's quirky and bold, and Horváth just nails the intersection of economics, politics, and sex. It's a funny, ribald shaggy dog story that ends with just a glimmer of hope.
The introduction sets the book up to be a disappointment. A decent, quiet read with memorable and humorous moments. It doesn't go beyond that, and it doesn't need to. But Auslander's intro is a disservice in that regard.
Incisive satire of German society on the eve of the Second World War. There are few great German satirist--Heinrich Mann is another--therefore I recommend this book, it's a must read!
Excellent satire from 1930, eerily still relevant.
A good satire on German culture after WWI. The book is in between 3 and 4 out of 5.
Reading the German original "Der ewige Spießer"Ein Blick hinter die Kulisse des Bürgertums - ein bißchen aus der Zeit gefallen. Gelegentlich amüsant, aber vom Sarkasmus bleibt nicht so viel übrig.
