https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3082578-valkyrie
I FINALLY TRACKED YOU DOWN, YOU BASTARD.
These pages include a history of abortive attempts at rebellion from within Germany, an invaluable sketch of the characters involved in the incineration of the Reichstag, and of course, a detailed description of the attempt on Hitler's life.Gisevius might appear tricky, but when I first read this, I was utterly convinced that he deserved to sleep well at night.
While one appreciates the counterpoint to the "usual" presentation of the heroic Stauffenberg, this book seems to lack a bit of perspective.The problem may be in translation, but I think more that it suffers from what many histories written in the immediate post-war era suffer from (this book was originally published in 1946).
Many military officers writing just after the war assumed their audience would know details of military custom, life in the 1940s, personalities of the day, etc., that we today really don't have a grasp of.
So it is with Gisevius' work, which I think presumes the audience to have a deep understanding of who the personalities he writes about are.
How can you make a book about the plot to kill Hitler, written by one of the conspirators, less than thrilling, and, indeed, tedious?
The whole first half of the book was spent introducing the characters.
The author seems to want to point how what "good Germans" each one was.
Perhaps also, this is where the author's personal experiences really begin, until that point he seems to have been an observer.
I don't feel I gained much insight into the men who were driven to plot the assassination of their own commanding officer and head of state.
I got close to page 100, and all the author had done was introduce various people who were part of one opposition circle or another.
Some of the intros extended on for pages, while others were just a brief mention as though the reader should recognize the names.
I did not recognize them ...
The author also did not, in the portion that I got through, really give the reader the sense of how critical these people might have been to the Valkyrie plot.This was also an abridged version of the book, which I had not realized.
Convoluted and confusing in a lot of places. Difficult to track who's who and who is doing what. I'm left with the impression that the author was only a tangential member of the group plotting Hitler's assassination and that he had an ax to grind against some of the major figures in the group.
Ugh - this book was painful. Scattered notes all over the place, unnecessary details and no real flow. I expected a lot more, although I was warned.
Very boring until it reaches the point when they plot in action.
This book was truly an insider’s account, and I learned a lot. I wish it had more information about the actual event itself, but it is truly an insider’s account, not a history of account. Still, I’m glad I read it.
If there was any GOOD person more knowledgeable about where the corpses were buried, it was SS Agent H.B. Gisivius, who was also an insider in the tragically unsucessful attempts to get rid of Hitler.
Gisivius goes though several adventures, from the Nazi Regime's bloody beginnings, to his transfer to the Abwehr [German Military Intelligence] under Canaris, to the frustrating attempts to get rid of Hitler, often interrupted by the major events of the war, and the lawless antics of Nazi Functionaries (including the embarrassing trials that took place for the Reichstagg Fire).
An excellent firsthand account of not only the Valkyrie plot, but also of the political and military personalities behind the several organizations involved, this memoir offers a unique perspective from one of the more involved conspirators. The detail with which Gisevius recalls the events leading up to the July 20th Putsch is remarkable, and gives a realistic view of the several opinions even within those seeking to establish the new government. This account is abridged, and piqued my interest to read the original book, "To The Bitter End".
In any event, he became disillusioned with Nazism, and by 1937 was part of the “Schwarze Kapelle”, a shadowy group of people gathered around Admiral Wilhelm Canaris, ostensibly head of the Abwehr (German intelligence) but in actuality gathering around him people who devoted their lives to quietly resisting Nazi rule.And so Gisevius is well placed to discuss not only the Oster Conspiracy of 1938, but also the July 20 plot of 1944, both attempts out of many to assassinate Hitler.
Thankfully, I've got Conrad watching my back...Pretty good, and in parts exceptional; both the beginning and end were sorely in need of trimming, though.
Gisevius's translation is exquisite, and his rich wordhorde of odd, midcentury amerikadeutsche solecisms is particularly savory -- selection made me laugh out loud, warmly, more than once.
(better translation here), or Perrault's wench of a younger sister in "Diamonds and Toads".I got really, really sick of pretty much all the characters by book's end, though.
So if you are looking for a WWII book with lots of gory details I would say to keep on looking.
I had already seen the movie, so it was different not seeing Stauffenbourg in the same kind of light (if you read the introduction you'll find out a little more about why Gisevius disliked him so much).
I would recommend it to people who enjoy reading WWII books.
But if you are looking to read it because you found the movie to be riveting and exciting, I would look elsewhere.
How can you make a book about the plot to kill Hitler, written by one of the conspirators, less than thrilling, and, indeed, tedious?
The whole first half of the book was spent introducing the characters.
The author seems to want to point out what "good Germans" each one was.
Perhaps also, this is where the author's personal experiences really begin, until that point he seems to have been an observer.
I don't feel I gained much insight into the men who were driven to plot the assassination of their own commanding officer and head of state.
After seeing the movie of the same name, I had to read the book...it was a little difficult to figure out who was who, but that was okay.
One of the most interesting parts at the end addresses the role/responsibility of the German people in the whole disaster...even though he personally believed in the existence of "demonic forces," he attributed the domination of the Nazis merely to inaction and indifference on the part of the German people.
I would recommend this book for anyone interested in WWII history.
Couldn't make it far in this at all.
The first half of the book has nothing to do with the story from the title and is essentially ramblings from a guy who seems to be incredibly jaded from the fact that he wasn't as involved as he'd like to be.
I really wanted to enjoy this and this time period is my favorite to read and study, but this book wasn't even close to holding my interest.
Avoid.
2 stars only because I think it's important for people to write history down no matter how little they're involved.
A remarkable account of the German resistance to the Third Reich. It's complicated writing but worth it to understand better what went on. It is history worth learning in order to avoid it in the future."In truth, perhaps the greatest perversion of human nature that takes place under a system of terror is that more character is needed, more courage required, to lie than to confess the truth." --Hans Bernd Gisevius
I'd not realized that this book was written during and after the war. Gisevius ends with a tribute to his many friends who died ". . . not fighting destiny, but for their sincerest convictions. Few ages have produced so many martyrs as ours, and in time to come countless Germans will also be included in the roll of honor of those who perished for freedom and a better future." I have learned about and honored those as I have read this book.
This book shows a lot about the beginning of the Jewish genocide led by Adolf Hitler around World War 2. While depicting Hitler's background, this book tells us of the many different plans used to assassinate Hitler, yet none ever succeeded. A little dry in content, but I recommend this book to anyone with fascinations towards history!
Fascinating account of someone who was actually right there through many historic moments that everyone spends time writing about over 60 years later. Very fascinating. Would like to know more about the author . . .
A very dry read, but an interesting first person account of Operation Valkyrie. It's a bit self-serving, but it definitely gives you more perspective and insight into what went down than the movie did (and was a more accurate portrayal too).
It starts out a bit slow, but the action really picks up as soon as the author (one of the few surviving plotters) dives into those fateful days of July 1944 when Stauffenberg makes his assassination attempt. Read it before watching the movie!
I thought it was a good book and gave great back rounds of the plotters trying to kill Adolf Hitler. Also gave incredibly great descriptions of Hitler's Eastern Front Headquarters. I love top know that these men were killed enemies of the state, but legacies lived as heros.
I think this book is very interesting once you get past all the introduction and background information of the characters. I think once you get past that and get to see an insider's view on the plot to kill Hitler is becomes interesting.
It picked up in the middle (as you'd probably expect in an assassination thriller), but the events leading up to Jan. 20, 1944, which are essentially Gisevius' thoughts on those events, didn't hold my interest.
I chose this book because the ads for the movie were all over the television I am not a Tom Cruise fan (sorry Scientolgy [sp:] fans), but I wanted to know more about the story.Having read the book, I now need to see the movie to see how true the screenplay is to the book.
Gisevius manages to turn an exciting story into a very dull one.
I heard that this movie was really good and I thought that a plot against Hitler is pretty awesome so I ABSOLUTELY POSITIVELY HAVE TO READ THIS BOOK!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
While very long the details are almost in given in real time. However a very compelling insiders story to Germany during WWII
Even if all, not I. Wonderful account of a person's integrity in the face of evil.
