https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/206309.Fish_
Imagine a sucky group of employees with bad attitudes...in walks this great boss.
With only the tap of a wand and a field trip to a local fish market she transforms this group of losers into productive happy cogs.
I would much preferred to have read skymall magazine on the plane or chatted with the stranger sitting next to me...but no, I was held hostage to the fish story.
I believe fish was an appropriate name because when I finished with it, I wanted to wrap it up in newspaper and put it out with the trash!
But I can see that most of the employees are enjoying these and "Have Fun at Work" is part of the management philosophy that the company espouses so who am I to argue with that.Because of our company book club, I am now in the look out for an appropriate books to read: one fiction and one non-fiction.
She works as a manager in a fictional company called First Guarantee Financial.
Having read so many fiction works, this one is like a bug, say a cockroach, that you want to step on until its intestines are spread on the floor.
When I asked him about fish, he casually explained that it was a book on how to brainwash your employees.Not sure he read it honestly, but then again I'm not even sure the people who hand out these books actually believe its message.I guess what I'm getting at is the corporate world is full of misanthropes.While the notion of using a story as a framework for a message of corporate betterment probably didn't start with this book, it seems like it definitely gave it a bit more ground in popularity.
Read this for work. Easy and quick to read.The Fish philosophy is modelled on the work culture of a fishmonger's at Seattle's Pike Place Markets.Summarised1. Choose your attitude2. Play/Have fun (They threw fish around at the markets)3. Be present (for customers and others generally)4. Make their day3 stars
felt the need to tack a "plot" onto their corporate philosophy book: a plot that was thin, forced, and, with the implausible love story stuck in for us working gals reading it, insulting.
The Fish Philosophy is presented as being so flawless and so delightful that no one could possibly object to it.
What then can happen (it happened to my boss) is that managers who read the book and make their employees read it are unprepared for dissent.
The Pike's Place Fish Market is fun because each employee is encouraged to be their authentic selves, to contribute to the sense of fun in their own unique way.
The workers at the fish market, we were told, loved their jobs and gained customer loyalty by engaging the consumers in their energetic hijinks.
What I just told you about the fish market hijinks pretty much constitutes the philosophy.
Of course it's inane, crass, irrelevant to workplace realities and ultimately condescending to workers who rightly realize that their intelligence is being insulted by yet another lumpen metaphoric "lesson" barely better than those suitable for the comprehension of Mr. Rogers' audience.I was given one of these books at the retreat and told to read it.
Most people will read this book, and be very excited about what they have read, wanting to run right back to work and start implementing the FISH philosophy.
The character in the book is fictional, and the results she achieved by implementing this philosophy are just as fictional.
I would have been much happier to have read about a company that actually DID implement this philosophy, how they did it, and the true results they achieved.
In the end, this is a weakly written book about a philosophy that is motivational, but of more use in your personal life than the business world.
Its purpose is coach its readers into a new way of carrying out their business environment in order to make employees more productive.
The Fish philosophy considers it imperative employees get to know each other, that they be exposed to events and celebrations in which they can share with one another, and that some fun be brought into their work life.
I have also spoken to people who claim the Fish philosophy has made a difference as to how they personally approach their jobs.
It is a parable used to coach it’s readers as to the concept of running a business with greater impact by using unconventional methods.
I know it is a matter of perspective certainly, but I think a one star rating is missing the point of this book...
I always feel better when I read it and I always take something away from it.
Quick read...
We can all benefit from the Fish philosophy!1) Choose the attitude you bring to work.
(Every job may not be fun, but we can choose to have fun doing it.)3) Make their day (Engage customers - including them creates goodwill)4) Be Present (Be aware of those around you and be fully available)
I got called in as a temp today, and inbetween breaks of answering phones, I noticed this book sitting in the office and I picked it up and read it.
It's short and sweet and to the point, and a REALLY good book.
It reminded me a lot of Victor Frankl's book Man's Search for Happiness, how even when our freedoms are taken away, we always have the freedom to choose our attitude toward things and events.
This book will teach you how to have more fun at work, how to change things from being a toxic environment to a happier environment.
Anyway, good book, funny and a really quick read.
This has a few ideas that I'll definitely implement at work. It's a nice, quick read that I would recommend to anyone that is looking to change the culture at their workplace.
The book doesn't provide any advice to managers for improving the environment, or leading the way by accentuating the positive, or rethinking business processes so employees don't waste time on pointless tasks; just Choose Your Attitude(tm) and it'll all take care of itself.Basically, this book is best suited to optimists, people who already come to work in a good mood no matter what.
This book could be used in a bigger program, however, wherein managers are taught how to demonstrate, encourage, and reward positive attitudes and exceptional customer service.
While I appreciate what the folks at my job are attempting to do, and am always on board for being as positive and present-minded as one is capable of being, therein lies the rub--this book did not account for individual variation in ability whatsoever.
I wasn't surprised in the least to find that a book used as corporate motivation would be extremely ableist, erasing the reality of physical and mental disabilities as an involuntary factor in whether a person is capable of being--for example--"energetic" or "fully present."Tell someone flashing back from PTSD that they're not being "present enough." Tell someone with depression caused by seasonal affective disorder that they're not being energetic or "choosing a positive attitude." Tell someone with a chronic illness that they're not doing the work with "enough energy." Yes, this book is primarily about choosing your attitude, and one can choose one's attitude up to a point.
The way this book delivers its message is tad unrealistic, even for a parable.
I understand the message that the book was trying to deliver was a noble one; get rid of "toxic energy" in the workplace.
To achieve that purpose, the main character, Mary Jane took help from fishmongers who had a positive attitude in a fish market nearby.
The four main things Mary learnt from those fishmongers were:1.
Always be "present" while listening to problems of customers, friends or family members.
However, Mary Jane and all the other employees in the book treated the fishmongers as omniscient.
Este ano recebi o livro “Fish, uma nova cultura na empresa.” Desta feita, os três simpáticos ratinhos (Quem Mexeu no Meu Queijo?) deram lugar a peixes voadores lançados através do mercado mais famoso do mundo. Encontramo-nos novamente no domínio da parábola – o que parece ser uma fórmula recorrente dos livros de autoajuda dedicados à gestão empresarial. Em Fish permanecemos no universo das mensagens simples: não podemos escolher o melhor emprego do mundo, mas podemos assumir a melhor atitude do mundo.Ler mais no Das Letras
Fish!
A simplistic yet overbearing, cloying, smiley-fish face concept guaranteed to annoy, yet not challenge, any employee forced to read it.
And there's absolutely no getting around the immediate reaction to all things Fish: is this about Jesus Christ?
It isn't, it's about soulful fish-flingers from Seattle leading lives of great fulfillment that we should all envy.
Because they choose happiness.
Like we all should.
People from all walks of life.
From the humble to the mighty.
In our jobs and in our lives.
Be happy at work or leave.
Shit or get off the pot.
Fish or cut bait.
I've been dipping into some management books with the new job and since this one has been on my shelf forever (and it's short) I gave it a read. It's a little simplistic (and honestly reads a little too much like a kids' book at times), but the maxims it uses (Choose Your Attitude, Be Present, Make Their Day, Play) are smart. Of course, figuring out how to implement them is the hard part, and the book doesn't offer much in the way of guiding you on that score.
The book I read was Fish!: A Remarkable Way to Boost Morale and Improve Results by Stephen C.
This book is about the fundamentals of boosting your team's morale.
The main topic of this book is there in a business, and “the dump” is the work level that has all the older adults.
Many ideas are brought up in this book about ways to improve morale.
She set up many ideas and lots of different ways to approach boosting morale.
This book was very informative, by trying to make us try the ways to boost morale.
I've read this book a couple times over the years ...
Gord and I were talking about Pike Place Fish Market a couple days ago for some reason (he hadn't heard of it) and it inspired me to read the book again.Mary Jane is a widow with two young children.
She can't afford to quit her job and her manager threatens to fire her and the team if they don't turn things around.One day she wanders into the Pike Fish Market and sees how much fun the workers are having.
My CEO asked my coworker and I to read this book.
At first I was like, really, I have to read a morale book for the office?!?
But, I am so glad I read this book.
I loved the concept of choosing your attitude and being there.
Yeah this book is for the work place, but I can apply this to my every day life and I think it will improve the quality with which I choose to live and see even the small things that happen in the day to day aspects of life.
Když vás neodradí trochu dětinské pojetí obálky a název knihy, opravdu se dozvíte pár zajímavých tipů na to, jak své zaměstnance (nebo kolegy) vhodně motivovat a naladit na tu správnou vlnu. Nalaďte své zaměstnance (nebo sebe a kolegy) pozitivně, naučte je milovat svou práci a být na ni hrdí. Celý článek zde :)
Loved. Loved. Loved.. Who Moved My Cheese was a great fable to address change. Fish went a step further. Mr. Lundin helped us to see that boosting morale can be done in such a fun loving and remarkable manner. Moving on to Gung Ho. Getting better....means doing better....by all!
Good ideology, horribly written.

My main issue with this book is that it presumes that anyone who isn't a go getter, isn't happy all the time, isn't 100% dedicated to the job, must be in a rut and they need to be fixed before their attitude spreads to everyone else in the office.
Personally, I cannot control my mood and although I can try to not let it affect my work, it isn't always possible.The second step, Play, was full of ridiculous suggestions.
The book doesnt convey anything earth-shattering, takes a simple enough story and tries to get across a simple concept - What would it take a dull, inefficient team in a fictional company back up running.The story involves our main character Mary Jane Ramirez, who has gone through a fair share of troubles with her personal life, with her husband dying all of a sudden from a disease, given responsibility of "third floor" of the company.
Crafted into a fictional story by people who were not directly involved in creating that World Famous fish market, the authors still had some helpful principles to share:Choose Your Attitude,Play,Make Their Day,Be PresentIt seemed a little too simple and easy though - a little too gimmicky.
That's why I became curious to read Fish Tales!, the follow-up book that has real-life case studies of organizations that apply this philosophy.
I also have become curious about the book, When Fish Fly: Lessons For Creating a Vital and Energized Workplace From the World Famous Pike Place Fish Market, which was actually written by the owner of Pike Place.
Days led to weeks and weeks to months." With a choking voice he said that four years had passed and he never did goto the park.
His daughter is now fifteen and no longer interested in the park, nor, for the matter, in him."It becomes a laughable concept that a crew of office-workers take these fishmongers as deities with the answers to all of life's qualms.
The actual lessons presented in the book are good to be taught, but the way they were presented was patronizing.****spoilers****Ending the book with the fishmonger buddha proposing by passing a dish with an engagement ring in the fish's mouth and the lead character exclaiming "Yes!
Sounds wonderful!
The film they made was also....well, if every workplace was like this, how happy we would all be!
It's just......It wouldn't work.
I mean it really wouldn't work.
Accommodating the people they work with that they don't like.
A reason to play Eeyore and tell everyone how wonderful we would have been if it wasn't for that prize b**ch the manager/secretary/supervisor.
Or whoever the Scapegoat is.As for my workplace - I work with a bunch of people who function at work as individuals each pursuing their own agenda.
It really wouldn't work in this organisation.
The writers of this book are responsible for the documentary about Seattle's world famous Pike Place fish market, whose employees' enthusiasm and playfulness have become a model for businessess of all types and also schools.
Since it's not practical for the small family run business I work for to rent the film for $500, I decided to read this slim inexpensive book instead.
I think these are all great ideas, but the book itself is written at a 5th grade level and is really hokey and corny - a real eye roller.
There are much better books out there that convey similar ideas.
