https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/574065.The_Tryst
I really enjoyed this sweet novel.
Like most of her novels Ms Hill does not hurry to the ending but takes her readers on a slow, picturesque journey allowing plenty of time for character developement and soul searching on the parts of the hero and heroine.
The ending is a little bit abrupt as though the author (or editor) realized much time had already been spent and now we must tie things up quickly.
However it was a pleasant journey and the reader can have the freedom to fill in the blanks as they wish.
I was given this book as a joke. And it is a joke. A mishmash of cloying sentimentality, heavy-handed proselytizing, and and utter lack of tension. Though I gotta admire the audacity of a romance novel that doesn’t allow its two leads to have a conversation until literally the last five pages, despite meeting face to face on several occasions.Only read it if you live with a repressive grandmother who thinks Francine Rivers is too spicy.
I'm going to look the other way on just what a fine job she falls into without much effort at all, because I love Grace Livingston Hill.
While I approve of the 'tough love' approach, I would have wanted him to let go of the past, and maybe that's his human failing, the one thing that makes him more real.
But there's also a heavy social ministry that Grace only hints at in other books, with beautiful works done by the end to make life better for a large group of people.I wonder at the time period that this is written in, whether a great deal of Italians were immigrating to America during this time period.
For instance, our heroine witnesses a crime, knows the wrong guy's in jail, but all she does is tell her boss.
She doesn't say anything to the police even after she knows full well her boss hasn't passed the information on and may even be trying to frame the innocent guy (can't remember how complicit he was).
This isn't one where GLH totally loses track of the plot on you -- on the contrary, as another reviewer mentions, she ties everything up in a terribly neat little bow -- and I really enjoy some of the secondary characters, but something was kind of lacking, I think because I never liked the heroine enough to shrug off her annoying tendencies.
As with all of Grace Livingston Hill's books it is very old fasioned in it's view of women and social position.
I love these books because my Mom and Grandmother gave them to me when I was a young girl.
They are sweet and romantic.The Tryst is very interesting, there are a lot of side stories and plots.
While the story is interesting and very involved, the ending is, in my opinion, disappointing.
These stories that have been winding up to a climax throughout are ended almost entirely in about half a chapter.
read 03.28.84
Publishing date: 1921. Wow... released to Kindle, free.
Surprisingly, this is the one of my grandmother's 4 GLH books that I have reread several times.
But there is the tryst itself, which if you haven't met God, doesn't make sense.
Poor GLH clearly had, and tries desperately to convert through her story.
If you haven't been there personally, then just keep going -- the story is fine.
But once you've made the jump, then this story's description may come back to haunt you - very accurate.Also there's The Plant -- where the immigrant families live and work -- I think this book may just have more depth than some of her others.
One of my favorite authors, this was not one of her best. It was SO full of proselytizing that the story was almost lost. I appreciate a good Christian conversion story, and did enjoy the unusual conversion stories, but it was way over the top, even for Grace Livingston Hill. Missed communication in a story always make me crazy, and this one had plenty of that. I had to see how the pieces came together...
I'll give this story 2 stars for it kept me interested somewhat in what would happen next. Otherwise the plot is terribly weak especially the ending. It's pathetic! The main character actions are so cheesy. The story was building up to its climax and then all of a sudden it crumbles into The End.
I am kind of a sucker for GLH books and this one was a sweet read! Yes, unrealistic, but still sweet! It had some great depth of the walk with the Lord that I enjoyed as well.
Awesome.... I hated to see it endAwesome I hated when it came to the end. I wanted it to go on. It kept me wondering what next
Love her books.
MY MOST FAVORITE GRACE LIVINGSTON HILL!!!
Nice clean book with a fluffy story and nice moral lesson but didn't make a ton of sense.3 is probably a high rating.
Hespur, the faithful servant, is my favorite character. He takes a background role to the main lovebirds, but this book is worth reading, if only to read about him and his humility.
enjoyable read!
I have read a LOT of GLH books over the years.
This one, however, was easily the worst one I've read.
As a Christian, I certainly have no problem with the witnessing and sharing of the scriptures in a book.
However, it seemed extremely forced and overdone in this story.
It also didn't help that I didn't agree with her interpretation of some of the scriptures quoted or some of the doctrines shared.
But even aside from that, the story itself wasn't very well done.
If this was my first GLH book, I'd probably never read another one.
A great many typosA good story and I liked the message of salvation. But the typos so so many made reading difficulty for me
I enjoyed this mystery with several threads and a hint of romance.Some of the threads were left undeveloped, making one wonder which the author would follow. In this day several sequels could be developed. It was a moving read emotionally.
