https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28214365-commonwealth
NONE!!!!If you need a 'little' information to know weather you want to risk reading an Ann Patchett book, which I clearly do not understand.....lol,the blurb gives enough details about this story.
( HUGE CREDIT to ANN PATCHETT) I 'definitely' have 2 - ok- 3 ....shit....4 favorite scenes....But I think EVERYONE would be 'crazy-in-their-head'.....not to think the opening chapter is one of the most brilliant - stand out - memorable scenes to come along in a contemporary family-saga novel in YEARS!!!!!
I had a hard time with all of the child neglect and poor parenting decisions in this book.
I had a VERY hard time stomaching the Benadryl/gin/gun incident with the six children - little Albie being only 5 or 6 years old!?!?
These poor children are shipped back and forth between parents and states and then left to their own devices most of the time.
Often, I found it hard to keep track of the children - which child belonged to which parents.
I know I'm in the minority, so please read other reviews before deciding on this book!
Jump back to Bert and Beverly moving to Virginia in the 1960s, her two kids in tow and his four arriving for the summer.
The Keating kids move with their mother from California to Virginia when Beverly remarries.
The commonwealth of kids in both Patchett’s actual life and in her novel comes in at a half dozen, so she knows of what she writes.
I have read but not reviewed Bel Canto and This is the Story of a Happy Marriage.A  musical item of possible relevanceNovember 23, 2016 - Commonwealth is named to the NY Times list of 100 Notable Books of 2016
The dialogue is not particularly rich but I like her sentence structure, the way she dresses the story--atop some good bones.Her plot is clever and sort of unusual (I found myself thinking, how did she come up with THAT secret), and it has the right amount of foreshadowing.
I’m one of five kids; the story reminded me of how it felt to be around many siblings, and it sent me down memory lane.Patchett really is good at developing characters.
I loved this book. Gorgeously written, as is always the case with Ann Patchett. There is an ambitious narrative structure that, at times, gets away from the writer, but still, this is so so good.
This is a moving novel about the blended modern family inspired by Ann Patchett's own personal family history.
She becomes involved with a writer, Leon Posen, to whom she confides her family history.
Fix Keating, LAPD cop, has cancer and it is Franny that comes to care for her father.Patchett gives us a a human and insightful look at the complexities of the dysfunctional modern family through the Cousins and the Keatings.
I was touched by her positivity with regard to the challenges of a blended family and of how time eventually is likely to iron out the wrinkles.
Life is messy a lot of the time and no matter how much people love their families, I think we have to admit that we've all experienced some of the messiness that happens in life.
The book opens with a christening party with lots of alcohol and you can't help but think by the end - how that first bottle of gin changed so many lives .
The narrative moves around in time and and we in essence don't have the full story of what happens over the years, but snap shots of this blended family.
So, this is what happens when one too many gin and orange juices flow.
At a baptism.
Not the typical kind.
The fun kind.
Truths are exposed after the publication of a novel that is loosely based on the 2 families.
It's the realIzation of truths when secrets are revealed.
Patchett expertly packages a novel within a novel - literally- with an abundance of themes-Divorce, addiction, relationships, personal growth, loss and regret.Not linear but not confusing; nice prose, interesting characters and entertaining.
My 2nd Patchett.
The story is written going to and fro in time, and we follow several family members in their personal lives at some point in time.
It's a story full of emotion, tragedy, love...Beautiful & heartfelt...
Never got round to reading it yet, although it passed thru my hands several times ;-) Will read it soon :-)Beginning lines of Commonwealth sets the stage: The Christening party took a turn when Albert Cousins arrived with the gin.
Fix was smiling when he opened the door and he kept smiling as he struggled to make the connection: it was Albert Cousins from the district attorney's office standing on the cement slab of his front porch....
Bert and Beverly left their prospective spouses, got married, and like a premonition or example of the future family model, became a blended family.After reading a few reviews for this book, I have to confess, I feel slightly out of my element.
Family is family, blended or not, and this story proves that, with characters who may seem a little familiar to us.
Overall, this is an absorbing and fascinating portrait of family and of life, which any fan of literary fiction will not want to miss.
Franny and Fix were my favorite, and I especially enjoyed the chapters that focused on Franny's life and her affair with a famous writer.It has taken me months to write a review of this book since I first read it because it's been hard for me to explain why I loved this story so much, probably because it's so personal.
She turned into whoever she was sitting next to.""This was the time she had, these were all the stories she was going to get.""Half the things in this life I wish I could remember and the other half I wish I could forget.""Did you ever want to be a writer?" / "No ...
I am afraid I am going to be the outlier on this one - I wanted to love it; I was so sure I would love it that I purchased the hardcover copy to cherish, which I rarely do.
I adore Ann Patchett!
I just could not connect with this family drama or any of the characters.
I can't fault her writing or the story or how it was laid out; it just was not compelling to me.
I liked it in a very mild way, but I am not sure I'll remember much about it in a few months.I'm sorry, fellow Patchett lovers!
The six children from the blended families will form, in the summers they spend together, a little tribe of their own and as a mother the things they got up to, with little adult supervision, made my hair stand on end.Patchett puts together a story of families, flawed families, but family nonetheless and very few do it better.
Many of the characters are not likable, my favorite being Fix, the cop and father of two of the female children and one of the girls, the grownup Franny.
Still, this is very much Franny's story, she is the one we come to learn about the most.
I'd rate this 4.5 stars."The christening party took a turn when Albert Cousins arrived with gin."How can you resist a novel that starts like that?Bert Cousins' decision to bring a bottle of gin to a christening party for Fix and Beverly Keating's infant daughter Franny, a party to which he wasn't even invited, is much more than a social faux pas.
Showing up at that party makes Bert realize he wants more out of his life than his job as a deputy DA, and his wife and three kids (with one more on the way) can offer him.
4 stars to Ann Patchett's Commonwealth. I chose this book because it was about drama and relationships within a complex family, as it seemed similar the last book I had written, and it was written in a way that I hoped would align with my favorite styles: from multiple character view points but with a focus via a single character. It did not disappoint and I am glad I read the book, but I don't think it was in my top favorite's list. Story The book is told mostly from the character of Franny Kea
Chapters focus on different friendships and relationships, spanning 50 years of Franny's life until the parents pass away.
I liked this a lot, as it was different than most books like this one, but it was a little frustrating at times as I felt like I only had a piece of the puzzle and wasn't even sure what I needed to know.
It's a definite read for anyone who likes family dramas, books spanning lengthy time periods, watching what happens to characters over important periods in their life, but it's just 10 to 12 vignettes that are beautiful but don't tell the whole story.
What happens at the christening party of pretty little Franny Keating will have a lasting effect on two families.
There’s always that little kid that you see in action in real life and you think to yourself, “I wonder how he/she’s going to turn out?” Well, that’s what I thought about Albie.
I would actually have liked to learn a bit more about Albie in his older years, but there is no way Patchett could cover everyone in detail through adulthood unless she wanted to turn this into a family saga of sorts.
I found it hard to give this book a rating. On the one hand, it was an excellent example of a literary novel. Great characters, good writing, lots of themes, emotionally engaging, the whole nine.On the other hand, I just don't really understand why people want to read books like this. Why do you want to get inserted into some person's depressing life? No opera singers or magicians or scientists deep in the jungle, just some people living in Los Angeles and dealing with each other's fuckups. What's the point?
Ann Patchett is a sublime writer and this book is a wonderful read!
Nominated by the National Book Critics Circle in 2016, Commonwealth is a terrific family saga about two families that spans over fifty years of their lives.Bert Cousins crashes a christening party at the Keating’s house and nothing is the same again for the two families.
Lives are changed and the six combined children head off to Virginia each summer together where friends and enemies are made.Fast forward and 20 year-old Franny Keating meets and has an affair with aging author, Leon Posen.
I found the aging of the parents and how things turn out to be very interesting and endearing.The author, Ann Patchett, is a favorite of mine and I have read a few of her books.
By the end of the novel, we feel as if we have enough information to write a biography for each member of the main cast.There's nothing wrong with this approach except for the obvious reason: the pace bogs down considerably in some sections, and a large part of the material is so mundane that I felt tempted to quit the book several times.The first chapter is actually the most exciting: a guest turns up uninvited to a party and proceeds to flirt with the host's attractive wife.
Dysfunctional family drama * Dysfunctional formatting * Dysfunctional review COMMONWEALTH by ANN PATCHETT is a literary fiction novel to cherish for its many different interwoven and blended stories of love, destiny, loyalty, loss, secrets, disappointments, betrayal, and mistakes creating a family bonded together by a common understanding of each other.ANN PATCHETT delivers an interesting, complicated, and well-written read here but I did find it to be somewhat challenging at times to keep up with all the characters, the different timelines, and their points of view as each chapter would jump around from place and time so you had to really pay close attention.
I love this book cover, the book not so much. When I reached the end I had an overwhelming feeling of what did I just read? What was the point or purpose? I was disappointed because I love Ann Patchett's beautiful writing but this story just never gained momentum. The story started off intriguing, fell into a state of whimsical melodrama and flatlined. At times it was difficult to keep up with all the characters or even care about them. I wanted to give up on this one because I simply never connected with the story.
That was a complete waste of time. I am very angry.The writing is mediocre. I can't believe how much praise Ann Patchett gets. The book is boring and pointless.I would rate it right up there with Fates and Furies, and we all know how much I hated that piece of shit.
This was a beautiful book to finish off my reading year of 2016!
It was my first novel by Ann Patchett, and throughout my reading of it I couldn't help but wonder how difficult the writing of this book must have been.
This novel just goes to show that even though you know how things end, that doesn't make the reading experience less of a pleasure.
It's one of those novels that questions the roads we take and how things could easily have ended up differently.
I loved this book so much, and I'm definitely going to dive more into Ann Patchett's authorship in the new, upcoming year.
The book starts off at a party for Beverly Keating’s daughter Franny.
The book now focuses on the six children between the two families.
During the summers, when the children and stepchildren are together, they develop a bond.
We meet the family members at different times and at different ages allowing us to understand the family complexities.
Because the parents are selfish, the children spend time together unsupervised.
I enjoyed reading this book.
I found the family relationships and descriptions realistic.
The portrayal of the aging parents and the dilemma it created for the children felt very real.
The saying  "Gin makes you sin" sure plays a role in Ann Patchett's latest novel Commonwealth.A novel about Family dynamics after marriages end and new relationships form and the fallout that folks have to deal with.One Sunday afternoon in Southern California, Bert Cousins shows up at Franny Keating’s christening party uninvited but with a large bottle of Gin. Before evening falls, he has kissed Franny’s mother, Beverly—thus setting in motion the dissolution of their marriages and the joining of two families.An interesting novel in places with well formed likable and dislikable characters.
I enjoyed the the beginning of the novel as the situations and characters were interesting.
Previously I’d always preferred Patchett’s nonfiction to her fiction. However, this, for me, was much better than Bel Canto and State of Wonder. As a deep study of blended family dynamics, it reminded me of Jonathan Franzen, as well as  This Must Be the Place  (Maggie O’Farrell) and  The Green Road  (Anne Enright). Like those two, it shifts elegantly between times and places, often without any overt triggers like a date heading or a chapter break.It all starts with an early 1960s christening par
It’s a wonderfully Mad Men-esque opening sequence, never quite matched by what follows, although some later scenes with Franny come close.The novel spends time with all six step-siblings, but Franny is definitely the main character – and likely an autobiographical stand-in for Patchett (anyone familiar with This Is the Story of a Happy Marriage will recognize some particulars, like the L.A. cop scene).
It’s intriguing to see the different places life takes them, ranging from law school to a Buddhist center in Switzerland.This is a sophisticated and atmospheric novel I would not hesitate to recommend to literary fiction fans in general and Patchett fans in particular.
Very well written, loved Frannie and Fix and even Albie by the end.
I enjoyed the different stories of the various characters and how they all came together by the end.
However (and this is where it lost a star) did no one else feel that the author was having trouble winding the book up.
She was still introducing characters in the last chapter at the Dinesons' Christmas party and I felt a little adrift and unsatisfied by the last page.However still an excellent book, lovely prose, well written characters.
I enjoyed it and read it practically in one sitting.
The six children affected by the divorces eventually find themselves forming an alliance, during the legally mandated summer visitation by Bert Cousins.
The single week that my kids agreed to go with their father and his new partner, they were made to wait in the car as the couple antique shopped on the way to their uncle's home.
Once they reached it, and headed camping with cousins and aunt and uncle as well as their father and partner, they were ignored by their dad.
I would have loved some time off.
You feel the heat of the summer day, understand the lives that the characters lead and the small town that they live in.
The tension and magic builds feverishly until the kiss between Bert Cousins and Fix Keating's beautiful wife, Beverly.Commonwealth  starts out as a gorgeously written story about two families disrupted so casually, so brutally by this kiss at a christening party.
As much as Ann Patchett gave me what I wanted in the end, which was an understanding of all the mysteries and a knowing of how each character of these two families fared in life, this part was far less interesting to me.
