https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/58822.Big_Stone_Gap
If you haven't read and of Adriana Trigiani's books, you MUST put them on your list and then make it a priority to read this entertaining series. Although, not imperative to following the plot, I suggest reading them in order, starting with this one. The simple ups and downs of a woman living in a small Virginia town are delivered with charm and poignancy and I found her writing addictive. I loved the characters and the setting.
I'd really love a good book set in Virginia.
Someone let me know where I can find one.Partial list of things I hate:1) The voice seems fake.
And an interview of the author - by a character in the book!
Also the man she thinks she loves is ostensibly not gay, but is gay, but even the author seems not to know it.
Honey, whoever you based this character on in real life is gay, and that's OK, but you probably should know that.
I am so sick of female characters who are confused with their lives and themselves and have to stomp off when someone is trying to tell them something. I think miscommunication is a weak plot point and this book would have been better if the author had the balls to give the main character some balls as well.
3.5 starsWonderful book about the life and times of a backward coal mining town in Virginia. The author brings the characters alive. Very funny in parts and then gentle, tender and heart breaking in other sections. It will take you back to a simpler time, when doors could be left unlocked and peoples first thought was not "what does he want"?This is the beginning of a series. One that is well worth the read, giving a person a well deserved break from the hectic rush and the over whelming sense of threat in today's world.
3.5 Star Rating. Fun, light read with some good humor. I am anxious to see the movie. It has been a while since I read a book where I was rooting for a particular love match, so that was fun! This was a great filler read between all the heavy stuff I've been reading. Nice, humorous references to Knoxville.....my college town and home of my Tennessee Vols! Update: Saw the movie, not bad, but of course, the book is better. (2/12/16)
Just loved this book!!!
The letter explains that the man Ave Maria has thought of as her father (who died many years before the story begins), isn't, and that her real father is an Italian man that her mother had to leave behind when she became pregnant.
So why should either we, as readers, much less Ave Maria, believe that he's madly in love with her?
Apparently, all her friends knew he was in love her, but we're not told any single thing that he did to demonstrate it.
I really enjoyed Big Stone Gap and was delighted to learn that this is the first in the series of novels featuring the folks of Big Stone Gap, Virginia. It is a feel good novel with a strong southern story line that includes Chinese face reading and a bookmobile! (Remember the bookmobile?) Family secrets, generous hearts, self-discovery. A sit back and relax with a glass of ice tea book ... Perfect summer read.
I really enjoyed this book.
I don't think it belongs in the chick-lit or romance genre, because to me, it is so much more than either one, but "heartwarming" definitely fits.
Lots of surprises and a whole cast of quirky, small-town characters to fall in love with.
This book made me laugh and cry, even while trying to fall back to sleep listening to it in the middle of the night.
The town and its people became real to me and Ave's story is worth reading.
I'll definitely continue with the series.
This is the second time I read Big Ston Gap and I remember why I enjoyed it so much the first time around.
The funny thing is that I have evolved in these past years and I have enjoyed this book for different reasons.
I like and I don't like Ave Maria because she's too hard on herself and sometimes even, contrary to what the book pretends, on others.
I understand protecting yourself out of self preservation, but in my mind Ave Maria acts more out of ignorance.
Luckily Ave Maria is growing up.
This feel-good story is set in the Virginia hills, with a charming cast of small-town personalities that revolve around the narrator, one Ave Maria whose Italian mother had her out of wedlock and brought her up in bluegrass country.
Not in my universe.In fairness, I will say that Ave Maria's narrative voice is too exuberant to qualify as pure whiny bitch, and she manages to give a lot to the community and people around her despite her preoccupation with herself and her apparent frailty when it comes to dealing with life.
Rate 3.5 - This is such a sweet enjoyable read, chalk full of great humour and wonderfully eccentric characters. The main one, Ave Maria Mulligan is okay but I prefer the supporting cast. Her best friend Iva Lou, a bookmobile driver & God's gift to men for one. Another is Fleeta, the chain-smoking pharmacy cashier who loves pro wrestling, such a hoot. The author’s choice of locale adds the perfect ambiance.
I read this book a few years back in a single day, and though i'm hazy on the details , it has left me a warm and fuzzy feeling.
It's a very charming book, set in a small town nestled somewhere between mountains, and our protagonist is a very likeable single woman in her mid-thirties who has found herself in a soap-opera like situation (the specifics of i can't remember).
At the same time she finds true love in the face of her childhood friend, who is amazing and i fell in love with and the scene where he confesses his undying and eternal love is romantic, and funny and sweet and full of puppies and rainbows and made me squeel into my pillow.
Her lusty friend who runs a bookmobile, Iva Lou, advises her on romance strategies:“There ain’t nothing like a working man..When you’ve known as many men as me, you start making lists.
A number of decisions by the characters are abrupt and implausible, leading me more toward mystification rather than humor or wisdom.
By comparison, I get more of both from the work of Billie Letts and Alexander McCall Smith, which both work a comparable cozy world of quirky characters.
For rural life, I get more wisdom of the heart from the work of Kent Haruf.
As a group, our overall rating for Big Stone Gap is 3 stars.Things we liked:Every member of our book club enjoyed the realistic description of the setting and small town vibe.
We have one particular member who is from just outside the real city of Big Stone Gap, and she fully related to every detail, especially the characters, who reminded her of actual people she knew.
(No spoilers.)General thoughts: Big Stone Gap is a leisurely book with some enjoyable bits and fun characters that's true message is about a woman's journey to find herself, reminding us to take part in our own lives instead of just watching it slip by.
This book was being promoted by the publisher in conjunction with a movie debuting in October 2015.
After reading this book, I am trying to think of a reason for making a movie of it.
The leading character is nearing her 36th birthday, but seemed as childish as a 15 year old.
Many of the characters are caricatures of southern hillbillies, which should insult the inhabitants of southwest Virginia.I would not have finished the book if it were not being discussed at our local library book club this month.
I found it a wonderful book to read if you are fighting insomnia, so I gave it an extra 1/2 star.
This book started off great and Whoopi Goldberg loves it, so who am I to contest Whoopi?
Then it got me thinking that maybe I'm the town spinster who everyone is outwardly fond of, them swinging by and being quirky, but inwardly...Inwardly they pity her.Then she goes and falls in love and left me being the REAL town spinster and I got depressed.
This was one of those books that ended a chapter and a half before it ended.
Everything was tied up nicely, but then they had to go on a vacation and end with a chapter and a half of "How I spent my summer vacation".
I was searching for a book set in Virginia for a reading challenge and came across Big Stone Gap by Adriana Trigiani, set in the late 1970’s.
The main character, Ave Maria Mulligan is a 35 year old self-proclaimed spinster and the local pharmacist in Big Stone Gap, a small town in the Blue Ridge Mountains.
Ave Maria gets called over to the local lawyer’s office where she receives a letter from her recently deceased Italian mother.
There are plenty of outrageous characters and the locals of Big Stone Gap will leave you smiling in every chapter.
This was a very light fun book to read.
The cast of characters includes all the quirky lovable types that you would expect in a book like this.
The story follows Ave Maria, a single Italian-American woman, as she turns 35 and the following year in her life.
The discoveries Ave Maria makes about herself and women in general I thought were insightful and interesting.
I liked this book because: (1) the character has several love interests that are all really good guys.
In a year, I probably won't remember the plot.Overall a fun fast read.
I hate the whole genre that tells us we will be happiest at "home" no matter how impoverished, bigoted, etc our birth region may be.
I also hate the message that all every woman needs to be happy and complete is to marry the right guy.I gave this book two stars (rather than one) only because the writing is decent.
If you are a woman who likes to read the kind of books that focus on the interior struggles of women with their emotions, marriages, disappointments, or family secrets you will probably love this.
I'll bump this up to 3.5. I read this with a couple of friends and that really made this book a lot more fun. If I had read this on my own, not sure if I would have enjoyed it as much as it's not my usual style of story. I think I'll probably move on to the next in the series as I am curious to see what happens next.
Read Sept. 2016Just finished a re-read of this and loved it all over again! Fun to revisit the quirky group of characters. :)Read Jan. 2011Original review:I absolutely loved this book! Great characters and story...a total comfort read. I'm moving right on to the next book in the series because I'm not ready to say goodbye to the characters or the Blue Ridge Mountains yet!
Loved it!
This was a fun romantic comedy type story.
It made me laugh out loud, which is always a good sign when a book can do that to me!
There were also some times when the main character annoyed me and I wanted to hit her.
But she did come to her senses and all was well in the end so that was good.
I didn't have to hit her anymore....
There were some parts where I felt there was too much blah-blah and it got a little tedious.
The humor outweighed those parts though and I did enjoy the story overall.
It's the seventies in a sleepy hamlet in the Blue Ridge Mountains of Virginia.
A thirty-five year old single woman has decided that she is the spinster of Big Stone Gap. She is completely independent; she is the local pharmacist, the co-captain of the Rescue Squad, and the director of the town's long-running Outdoor Drama.So secure is Ave Maria Mulligan in her position in life and in this community that she will go into a tailspin when things seem to change.
I will simply have to go out and buy or borrow another of her creations."Big Stone Gap: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)" earns five stars from me!
Not sure what to think of this novel.
I originally checked it out thinking it was a mystery, but it was a novel in the vein of Fanny Flagg, which I do enjoy.
I listened to it on audio and unless you are David Sedaris, Sara Vowell, or an otherwise well-known personality associated with a voice, you should not read your own audio books.
The main character of Ave Maria Mulligan, the thirty-five year old town pharmacist (and town spinster), is a hot mess.
Ave Maria lectures a lot, to the reader and to other characters, which gets old after a while.
**I received this book for free through Goodreads First Reads.**I didn’t fall in love with this story because I couldn’t fall in love with the characters.
I’m a big character reader, I need to be able to suspend reality and fall into their lives or feel like they are sitting right next to me telling me their story.
A generic or token cardboard cutout does absolutely nothing for me and that’s exactly the feeling I had with these characters.
I truly enjoyed this book.
I loved Ava Maria (what a name!), and all the characters in Stone Gap. I loved the descriptions of the small mountain community and the way it brought back memories of my visits to Tennessee, North Carolina and Georgia.
Ava Maria begins the book with this thought: This will be a good weekend for reading, I picked up a dozen of Vernie Crabtree's killer chocolate chip cookies .
My new favorite author is Adriana Trigiani.
Wow!
Her characters are richly developed.
I feel as though I grew up with her friends and family myself.
I love how the dialect and way of life reaches out and places you right in the middle of town.
I felt that I walked along with Ave Maria instead of looking in on her life.
Of course, as a fellow Virginian, I was able to identify with the language dialect and the views of the Blue Ridge Mountains.
This is a wonderful read and I encourage anyone to pick up all three of her Big Stone Gap series.
I re-read this book while up in the mountains just now. Ave Maria aand I each lost a mother to breast cancer. While my life is very different from hers, somehow, reading the story with the shared background and loss made it more meaningful for me. We're all a product of our environments, our genes and our circumstances. It was sweet to watch the unfolding of characters, and the explorations into trust. But my original thought still holds: with a main character called Ave Maria Mulligan, how can you go wrong!
