https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3295695-dragon-actually
☠ Impromptu buddy reread with my MacHalo Freaks ☠And the moral of this reread is: yes, dragons still do it better. And no, nothing beats bloodthirsty, batshit crazy warrior princesses. Nothing. Well Kate Daniels probably does, but she doesn't count. It wouldn't be fair on her fellow fictional characters. Anyway, I've decided that if I can't be Kate Daniels or Shanti when I grow up, I'll be Annwyl the Bloody. Why? Because this: “Do you not listen to our daily meetings about the state of your land
Anyway, I've decided that if I can't be Kate Daniels or Shanti when I grow up, I'll be Annwyl the Bloody.
[Original review]This is a silly book about horny dragons, homicidal damsels in little distress, broad-chested horny hunks and batshit crazy with horny tendencies dragonesses.They have sex share lovely moments, they have sex live in dens, they have sex fight each other, they have sex battle other dragons to reclaim their kingdoms, they have sex walk around naked a lot, they have sex argue and they sometimes have sex fall in love.
It's so embarrassingly delightful when a book I've mentally marked as nothing but porn manages to completely stun and amaze me.
Make no mistake, Dragon Actually is mostly fictional porn.
And since it's been ages since I've made a list-review, allow me to make one now.
Dragon Actually managed to catch me off-guard by:1.
Ruining all other paranormal creatures for me, because now nothing but a hot dragon prince will do.
6. Inserting a great short story on the unexpected love between a certain spoiled dragon queen and her scary consort, that I actually liked more than the main romance.And finally:7.
HOT DRAGON SEX.
3.5/5 starsFor more reviews, visit my blog.
Like beware of reading it in public because you will look crazy by cracking up out loud- funny.Nobody wants to look that crazy...We have Annwyl the Bloody as our heroine.
She meets the dragon, Fearghus the Destroyer, as she is lopping off heads of the enemy soldiers and dying herself.
This could be an awkward triangle - especially when one of them can just incinerate the other - problem solved.
Sounds so reasonable when he says it like that.Also great is the relationship that Fearghus has with his dragon family.
You need to stop asking me to let you kill our family."Fearghus shook his head.
This series, this series...I love Annwyl!!!
Just LOVE her.
She is such a badass and she keeps getting crazier as the books progress.Fearghus is good as well.
All hot and powerful but Annwyl steals the show IMO.Found this pic somewhere...This book is awesome, at least I believe it is.
Full of funny moments and action, without any angst and turmoil and all that boring stuff.
Some would say that the emotional chemistry between the characters isn't there and it would probably be true but I love it nonetheless.The dragon family is HILARIOUS.
My favs are Gwenvael and Éibhear.This is not much of a review but I'm too bored to write sth better!;)
3.25 starsAs cringe-worthy as that cover is, it does a good job of depicting what this book contains.
Chesticles.
Male chesticles.
Male DRAGON chesticles.
Because dragons are allergic to clothing.
I somehow missed that this book contains two totally different story lines.
The first 60% focuses on one couple, and then BOOM, a second couple is introduced.
Whereas the first couple have an actual story arc (which is filled with hilarity as well as hawt schmex), the second couple...didn't really.
It was pretty much straight dragon porn (thankfully in human form) with some growling and arguing thrown in for good measure.
I must give credit to the beginning of this book, it started good, with a fight, a kick-ass heroine and a dragon.
The problem is that I received 75% of smut and only 25% of fighting and funny spices instead while I read.
I liked other characters in the story, starting with the dragon kin, battle comrades and ending with the great villains.
They weren’t fully fleshed-out, but at least they had more going on :)It was strange for me as the final fight between good and bad happened so early in the story and I felt like I lost the little entertainment I had with this book.
Meet Annwyl The Bloody Her past times include chopping off people's heads.......And reading books   “Not everything can involve bloodshed, Annwyl.” “Can’t you come get me when there is bloodshed? Otherwise just leave me alone to read.” Bloodshed, books, or nothing! Finally a heroine with guts, wits, morals, and brains!! She is so crazy, stubborn, snarky, fearless!  And she definitely speaks her mind  “Fearghus didn’t say anything. He wanted to see her reaction. She didn’t speak for several momen
Meet Annwyl The Bloody Her past times include chopping off people's heads.......And reading books 
So with Annwyl the Bloody as our awesome heroine, she meets the dragon Fearghus the Destroyer as she is lopping off heads of enemy soldiers but also dying herself.
Of course Annwyl and Fearghus's relationship develops and they have some great moments.
Fearghus and his relationships with his family was amazing and absolutely hilarious.
You need to stop asking me to let you kill our family.”Fearghus shook his head.
Overall a great book with excellent world-building and character development that promised more crazy adventures with the rest of Fearghus' family
This was my first time reading her, and I had a positive experience.What I liked right away about this story was the nice flow of the narrative.
I liked Annwyl a bit more than Rhiannon, even though I acknowledge that both were shaped by their environment.
On the other hand, I am a bit squeamish when it comes to descriptions of men getting gutted and their entrails falling out.
I liked Annwyl and Fearghus’ story a bit more, but the story of Fearghus’ parents (Rhiannon and Bercelak)’ famed courtship was very good as well.
Buddy read *more like buddy torture =p * with lovely Orient and CraigThis is the book that made me fall in love with PNR. It is a light and funny read with a nice plot. Books get way more funny and a bit more complex plotwise as the series progress.I'll gloat talk more after buddies finish their reading =p
Actual Rating 2.5 starsIt's fine.
The relationship development was a bit fast for me.
I don't really see where they fell in love.
Friendship, sure I can see that, love, no.
The romance needed a deeper unfolding.The problems, or added plots surrounding the romance were a bit absurd and underdeveloped as well and that made me lose interest in the story, even though I found the beginning interesting.
I have to say that it is nice seeing a warrior woman in a paranormal romance book.
It is promising that we are seeing more and more of this models everyday.
3.5 stars, but rounded up.Review also found at:https://theparanormalpaladin.wordpres...So, reading and writing this review has given me another an opportunity to Google Jason Momoa pictures, since he reminds me of the male lead character, Fearghus (who is a SEXY dragon shifter).On one hand, this was a pretty typical fantasy romance, but it also had some high points that put it above your average, tropey love story.
He's also got LOTS of sexy dragon shifter brothers, so that means lots more books in the series!
It's got all the "good stuff" (raunchy sex scenes) plus a plot plus strong characters you don't want to bitchslap.
With the help of his sister Morfyd a witch healer and dragon, Fearghus gets up close and personal with Annwyl.Their love progresses slowly in this book.
Though we don’t actually see anything happen with them, it was nice to read their sexual tension.CHAINS AND FLAMES– 4 starsIn DRAGON ACTUALLY, readers are introduced to Fearghus’s mother, Rhiannon and his father, Bercelak.
But when her mother tells her that her mate will be Bercelak, Rhiannon feels like she’s been bitchslapped several times.
But....it happens and Rhiannon finds herself in Bercelek’s quarters.As a human.Bercelak was interesting to read about.
(TBH I really enjoy her alter ego Shelly Laurenston's Pride series, so this was extra disappointing for me)I almost didn't finish it.The writing was awful, the dialogue awful and the story was stupid.
I almost gave up twice, and I definitely did not read the second story.
Her story is the one at the end, and yet I couldn't even bring myself to read it.
I liked the dragons a lot, but I won't bother reading any more of the dragon kin books, which is a shame.
It was the writing style that I didn't like, as well as the lack of good dialogue.
About the time I had convinced myself that skimming was an acceptable form of reading after all, and that despite what I've been telling my daughter, I would not go to hell for skimming, things really started to pick up and I became completely invested in the characters, even though Annwyl was, more often than not, annoying.My favorite parts of the story involved the Dragon family.
I truly enjoyed Fearghus, and found myself wanting him, after more than 200 years of life, to finally find happiness, even if that meant that it had to be with Annwyl.
If I were to write a review in Annwyl's words, it would be this: Oi! This book is bloody brilliant!Wow this book is a definite fave! Love Fearghus and Annwyll and their magical world of dragons and fierce battles. Not to mention the secondary characters are great too and I look forward to getting to know them better in the following books.  I haven't had a good laugh in a while and this book, had me giggling like an idiot! Superb!
For me anyways.Writing a review = This is a story of sexy dragons and bad ass warrior women who do not hesitate, they know what they want, they take what they want.Annwyl, this chick is an insane warrior who has a loyal army to fight against her evil brother who unfortunately is the king.They hate each others guts and both are determined to kill each other.Anywyl is pretty bad ass.
Chains and Flames This is a story of Fearghus’s parents, Bercelak and Rhiannon.I was truly hesitant to read this and was set to dislike Bercelak.
It was pushed on me by Abby because she likes to torture me is the greatest friend ever.I would have never read this book.
I may have a mild obsession with dragons so my opinion completely biased, just as a word of warning, but I really enjoyed this and immediately moved on to the next in the series.I wasn't quite as impressed with the prequel that was included with this book, but it was free and it was still better than some other junk I've read recently so this was still a win for me.
Grab a glass of water and sit down with "Dragon Actually" by GA Aiken (AKA Shelly Laurenston) and you'll laugh out loud when you're not fanning yourself.
But it looks like her time has come when she's ambushed by a group of her brother's soldiers.
OH well, he'll just step outside and give them a scare...maybe have some baked human for lunch!
How interesting...I gobbled this one down in one sitting and now I'm just tapping my toes waiting for GA Aiken's next release, "About A Dragon" coming in December 2008.
So get off your duff and go pick up "Dragon Actually" by GA Aiken.
Dragon Actually: 5 starsI really enjoyed reading about Annwyl the Bloody and Fearghus the Destroyer.
Fearghus is a cranky hermit dragon who likes no one, barely one or two of his siblings.
It's lovely to see these two "terrifying" people see the mushy lovey truffle center of each other.
And it's humorous, as is everything by this author.Chains & Flames: 3 - 3.5 starsThis is about Bercelak & Princess Rhiannon - Fearghus' parents.
It's their romance.
Bercelak is into BDSM and likes to chain the ladies up.
Otherwise, not really my cup of tea, romance wise.
4.5 starsI see from the other reviews that this seems to be a Love It or Hate It kind of book. I'm firmly in the Love It camp. I guess it depends on what you were expecting from the novel? I was personally hoping for nothing more than brain candy, and I certainly wasn't the least bit disappointed in that regard. I thought Dragon Actually was humorous and entertaining, and the bonus story Chains and Flames a wonderful add-on to the overall experience.
Plan on reading more by the author: YES!Synopsis: This is actually two stories / novellas in one - Annwyl and Fearghus - I love his name.
Cue the dragon.
Cue the dragon who's a shifter.
Cue the relationship between the dragon and a whole other relationship with the man.
The second story begins with Rhiannon's horrid Queen mother - what is it with dragons and their serious family issues?
Cue the silly dragon kin, because this is GA =).
Cue the elistist Rhiannon.
Cue the low born dragon giving the princess what she likes but doesn't want to admit.
so she feels like she's betraying the Dragon when she 'sleeps' with the knight, but doesn't think that the Dragon and her are physically compatible.I really enjoyed the dialogue between the two main characters, and Fearghus' siblings are hilarious!I really enjoyed this book, and look forward to reading the next book in the series
Because life is all about the DRAGONS!" “Lorcan rubbed his head.
“Am I asking too much to want the little bitch dead?
That’s all I want.”― G.A. Aiken, Dragon Actually "This is a wonderful, funny, sexy and bloody book, and OoooOO JOY, it is just the beginning!!!
They’re dead boring.”“Not everything can involve bloodshed, Annwyl.”“Can’t you come get me when there is bloodshed?
Otherwise just leave me alone to read.”― G.A. Aiken, Dragon Actually "What else is there to say???
DNF No Rating Just Can't.
The central conflict of the story involves Annwyl the Bloody's rebellion against her half brother who has assumed the role of King upon their father's passing.
While the other members of the battle are fleeing at the sight of such a ferocious beast, Annwyl stands her ground, and that intrigues Fearghus enough to quickly eliminate her foes and begin to magically heal her fatal injuries.
When Annwyl awakens after many nights of being tended to by a female witch presumably in Fearghus' employ, she realizes he chose to save her, and while she knows she should fear the mighty dragon, she does not and knows she owes her life to him.
I loved that Annwyl held her own when she came face to face with Fearghus's father.
I definitely laughed at all the interactions that Annwyl had with Fearghus's mother.
I loved when she asked Annwyl if she was jealous of her chain.My score for this book doesn't reflect my opinion of the bonus short story featuring Fearghus's mother and father.
I didn't really find the dragon on a leash thing sexy but that wasn't my biggest gripe with the story.
I felt that the characters were underdeveloped and flat because of the shortness of the story.
3 it-served-its-purpose stars.Recently I have been reading lot of thriller and horrors so I needed something to cleanse my reading palate. Something light and fluffy. I started with KD #1 but really got bored with it. Then I started reading this and got what I wanted. Fuffy Dragon romance with hot knight on side. This could have been easily a 4 star read but (view spoiler)[ angry sex (hide spoiler)] really put me off. I never understood the appeal and it is such an alien concept to me. Otherwise
3 it-served-its-purpose stars.Recently I have been reading lot of thriller and horrors so I needed something to cleanse my reading palate.
Something light and fluffy.
I started with KD #1 but really got bored with it.
Then I started reading this and got what I wanted.
Fuffy Dragon romance with hot knight on side.
This could have been easily a 4 star read but (view spoiler)[ angry sex  (hide spoiler)] really put me off.
I never understood the appeal and it is such an alien concept to me.
I am still debating to read the rest of the series...only time will tell.
I don't really know how to describe it other than: porn.
Yup, lots of porn.
However, there's also some other moments that are sweet, funny, and downright enjoyable.
Now this is also a love story about a dragon and his mate.
She was downright crazy, stubborn, snarky, and beyond fearless.
Then there's Fearghus, which is a super awesome name by the way.
but honestly if this book just contained Annwyl I would've been happier.Now the romance was hot and amazing.
Bring on the dragon smut guys!
or cry a ton if you laugh way too hard like I do.
I found the dialogue immature and irritating at times, but overall it was a decent story filled with good paced action, love and conflict.
What I didn't like was how the heroine had no problem screwing the knight, when she loved the dragon.
She also was too over the top bloodthirsty and completely unromantic.Chains and FlamesI disliked the hero immensely, as well as the heroine.
He "supposedly" loves the heroine and yet he screws a bunch of women (before he claims her) and brags about it to her later on.
Çok eğlenceli, komik, aşk dolu, biraz vahşi...Kitap bir arkadaşımın tavsiyesi, onun okuması ile listeme girdi.
İçindeki kardeş kavgalarını okuması gerçekten çok zevkli.Vahşi derken Ejderhaların insanları kızartıp yemesi ve Kanlı Annwyl'ın adını haketmesi gibi olaylrdan bahsediyordum.
Ondada ayrı bir güldüm.Fearghus ve Annwyl'ın hikayesinde en çok hoşuma giden şey bir dere yada ırmak denebilecek alanda Annwyl'ın Fearghus'un(ejderha halinde) kuyrugunu Bungee jumping yapmak için kullanması oldu.Fearghus yalnız yaşamayı tercih eden bir ejderhadır, Bir gün magarasının önünde Kanlı Annwyl'ı ölmek üsere bulur ve onun hayatını kurtarır ama sorun şu ki her geçen dakikada ona dahada aşık olmaktadır.
Annwyl ise abisini öldürmek zorundadır ama bunun için yeterice güçlü değildir.
