https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/88870.Washington_D_C_
"The apes have always governed us, and our complaints are simply monkey chatter."The local library had a fistful of Gore Vidal's to pick from, but I had already decided I was going to pick up this novel for several reasons. First, it is the first novel in the Narratives of Empire series. Second, it was published in 1967. The year of my birth. It is interesting for me to see what was published, and what was on the minds of the people the year I was born. Third, I own a signed first edition that
"The apes have always governed us, and our complaints are simply monkey chatter."The local library had a fistful of Gore Vidal's to pick from, but I had already decided I was going to pick up this novel for several reasons.
The family, friends, and associates of the politicians are as swept up in the unseemliness of Washington power politics as much, if not more, than the politician they are associated with.This is a cynical book relieve only by a smattering of Vidal wit and moments of sparkling dialogue; the book would have benefited from higher dosages of both wit and sparkle.

Yet at the same time every character makes ethical compromises to get more power, always with the rationalization that when that power arrives they will start doing good again.
For most of the men in the novel, tragically the end of their career arrives before they get around to actually doing good.Despite the utter pessimism of this worldview, the author gives us a somewhat happy ending.
Despite being set during the period of the Second World War (the late 1930's through the early 1950's), and written/published in the mid 1960's, the scandals, intrigues, betrayals, and political maneuverings read as if they had been ripped from the modern day headlines.
There will never be a golden age and it is sheer romance to think we can ever be other than what we are now."I thoroughly enjoyed the story as it detailed the evolution of the political city's transition into the era of the television media and a more modern style of fund-raising and lobbying.
I can only hope that The Golden Age: A Novel, despite being written 33 years later, lives up to the same standards.
Esmu uzkāpusi uz Vidala adatas un mēneša laikā iesākusi nu jau trešo viņa romānu.
"Vašingtona" diemžēl ir vienīgais latviski tulkotais, ko turklāt "Liesma" izdeva jau pavisam drīz pēc pirmpublicējuma ASV.
Un nav jau arī nekāds brīnums, jo Vašingtonas politikas darboņu paradumi tēloti visai indīgi.
Tiem, kam patīk "Kāršu nams", noteikti patiktu arī šis romāns.
Pārējās negācijas - intrigas, korupcija, pērkami mediji, mediju radīti kara varoņi - atrodamas visai krāšņā buķetē.
Tiesa gan, nojaušams, ka prezidents (F.D. Rūzvelts), ko sparīgi ienīst visi romāna varoņi, varētu būt citādāks.
Tāpat ir vēl pāris citu personāžu, kam piemīt sirdsapziņa un vēlme dzīvot citādi.
We are aware of the "real" people involved in the events—FDR, Truman, Eisenhower, McCarthy, Dulles, Hull, etc.—though they never appear as "on stage".
Instead the narrative of the years is told through the appearances of a large cast of fictional characters.
Vidal has done his research well, and many of the characters are a composite of real people, so he is able to give the reader a taste of what life in Washington was like during these years.
I was surprised to find out that FDR was a President under siege, almost from day one of his years in office, and much of the opposition was coming from his own party.
Titanic events in the world at large dwarf them, but they are at the heart of the political and cultural elite and the poison and futility of politics is matched by their squalid family dealings.It won't come as a surprise to a modern reader, wheeling and dealing, the back-biting and back-stabbing, the scandalous private behaviour of public moral stalwarts, the cynical manufacturing of an imaginary politician for an unscrupulous and hollow man to inhabit.
If anything, we expect worse in this day and age.
I expected wit and venom in every word, but Vidal confines the verbals to dialogue or reported speech or the thoughts of our protagonists, and this certainly gives the novel a literary gravity without sacrificing the odd scathing phrase.
Washington, D.C. chronicles the changing of national politics and political life after WWII, and Washington D.C. society on the eve of war.
Gloria Steinem called it a "gossipy, underrated novel." Gore was raised in D.C. so I suspect much of what he details in the novel happened in real life; he had an insider's seat to Washington, D.C. and national politics.
His grandfather was a Senator; his dad worked for FDR.
One could label this novel a roman-a-clef: Clay Overbury is JFK, and his second wife, Elizabeth Wattress, is obviously Jackie Kennedy Onassis; Clay's first wife, Enid, might have been modeled on Gore's own mother and possibly Alice Roosevelt Longworth; Senator Burden, is his grandfather Thomas Gore.
Vidal presents a vivid portrait of American politics from the lead-up to the Second World War to the advent of the Cold War. He contrasts the political principles of the old school, embodied in the figure of Senator Burden day, with that of the new in the political machinations of the media-savvy senatorial aide, Clay Overbury.
The latter is presented as a JFK-esque figure with a polished war record, and whose presentabel image and high society marriage play a major part in determining ascent through the political ranks.
I've been reading all of the "Empire" series in chronological order of the plot, and I like this one the least so far. It seems to deal far less with real historical events, and is more of a melodrama between Vidal's characters than anything else.That said, Vidal is still a superb writer, and still manages to provide great insight into a period of politics and American history. This is a good and relatively quick read.
A weak effort.There's little to redeem this book from its paltry and hyperbolic characters, boring and utterly predictable plot, and disjointed narration punctured by the occasional disgusting salacious scene that likely so tickled a lusting white man.The characters, of course, are unsympathetic - they're supposed to be for Vidal to drive home his tedious point about how power corrupts the soul and principles of good people and attracts the least morally scrupulous among us.
Better to spend pages on trivial conversations or happenings (old senator goes to Manassas because _symbolism_ of a reactionary out of his time) and gross sexual content.
In many ways, this volume in Vidal’s Narratives of Empire (his title for the series, the publisher didn’t like that and named his outstanding epic saga American Chronicles).
C. —unless I missed something, which is entirely possible!
The only reason I can’t give this a full five stars is that I never knew Clay Overbury.
Arguably the main character of the book, I see his actions and people’s reactions to them, but I was rarely in his head.
And people’s reactions to them.
Because this is so entirely possible, I can’t deduct a whole star.
So, basically, a rave 4.5 Star review.
Excellent writing style, duh, it is Gore Vidal, but the story is typical of Vidal, Mailer, and others of his day.
Little character development of women - they are shrews, plotters, ugly heiresses, etc.
Very stereotypical in the portrayal of the political atmosphere in Washington, showing that one doesn't even need to live here (I do) to understand it.
I did not find it stirring though.
It was too formulaic and too predictable.
I wondered if it was meant to describe anyone in office at the time, but I didn't see any review which stated that.
It was entertaining, but not earth-shattering.
I've never read Gore Vidal, so when I found this in a thrift store for a quarter I figured, "Why not?"To me this was more of a chore. There wasn't a single character that I liked or sympathized with. I'm feeling that things in D.C. haven't changed a lot from the 40s when this book takes place. Sad. Quite salacious.
Before Fire and Fury, there was Washington DC. A curiously timely read about political maneuvering, scandal, PR, the selection of not-so-appropriate candidates, political fear, DC landmarks and sex. Written in the late 1960s, but so totally relevant.
Such an elegant writer. Vidal's prose is riveting. This work was a delight to read. Sarcasm, wit, drama, and expertly penned character characters.
Least favourite in the series
This did not disappoint, an amusing and chilling read. Mostly a believable picture of US politics from the 1930s-50s. Glad I finally got around to it.
Not a big fan of Vidal's - this may be the only book of his I got through - but this one I like.
I read this a long time ago and, at the time, found it a bit challenging to get through. I think this might be one to re-read.
Knowing the relationship between Blaise Santord and Burden Day, and their families for instance, made Washington DC seem rather empty--but then it hasn't happened yet.
Yes, Blaise is an SOB now, but there's the rest of him waiting to be created.That said, Washington, DC is truly Burden Day's book.
Blaise, however, though fully realized in Washington DC is not the complex nuanced character that he becomes in later books.
(Burden Day and Caroline ,though forward thinking-- Caroline especially modern.) Now, all memory is gone, and we have the full blown American Empire of media-created overblown politicians.
Plot – 3, Characters – 3, Theme – 2, Voice – 4, Setting – 3, Overall – 3 1) Plot (3 stars) – In manipulative, superficial Washington DC of the 1940s, one man strives to rise up the political system while those around him react to his wake.
What saved them was Vidal’s keen insight about human psychology when these characters interacted.3) Theme (2 stars) – I suppose the message here is that Washington politicians are shallow, self-interested, hypocrites.
The first of Vidal's Narratives of Empire series, seven novels that offer an alternative take on accepted American history, from the revolution to the post-WWII years when American was at the pinnacle of world affairs.
Vidal christens his homeland as "possibly the last empire on earth" in this novel, but I can't say I agree with him there.
It is political - power is the central theme -but the personal politics are confined to two families (the Days and the Sandfords), so the events which compare, contrast and conjoin them seemed a little too stagy and overwrought at times, like a high end soap opera.
Having just enjoyed Vidal's tongue-in-cheek view of Washington in the 1950s with his Edgar Box mystery DEATH BEFORE BEDTIME, I remembered that I had this 1967 novel on my shelf.
Kennedy - Vidal was a Kennedy 'insider' for many years.9/18: I don't have much of a head for politics, but I enjoyed this novel - it's definitely a faster read than Allen Drury's ADVISE AND CONSENT, which I tried unsuccessfully to re-read a couple of years back.
However, I can't say it made me want to run out and read any of its companion-novels at the moment (I've made two unsuccessful attempts at BURR over the years).
What did jump out at me, finishing with "Washington, D.C", was that Gore Vidal has a very limited repertoire of fictional characters.
The novels which included more historical people worked a lot better for me.
The reason for this is that Gore Vidal has no compassion for his characters, and may even have seen compassion as a weakness.
He is best being a bitch, and we love him when he is bitchy about real people, poking fun at all their foibles and hypocrisies and physical defects.
I think the only character that Gore Vidal had a whiff of affection for was Burr - the rogue.
As with all authors i enjoy, it seems he could write about oil changes and i would like it.He outlines the broad story of Washington DC families intertwined with politics, their behavior, their motivations, their ambitions, their status.
Heavy on family rather than legislative politics, the book skewers our country’s self-serving leaders by giving us a fictionalized glimpse behind the curtain.
Broad strokes through about 5 or 6 different sections of the book spanning about 10-15 years tell us what we need to know about obtaining and maintaining political power in the US according to Vidal.
Washington D.C. is a historical fiction that vividly depicts what goes on behind closed doors in D.C. by following several characters from the New Deal era through McCarthyism.
Mixing historical figures with fictional characters (who are all either related to an influential senator or a wealthy newspaper baron), the author humanizes the inner workings of our democracy and puts us in the uncomfortable situation of recognizing the flaws in even great leaders.
Indeed, reading this novel will not only entertain you but also convince you that the grotesque face of American Politics today is merely a reflection of a system in which the players occasionally change but the name of the game is business as usual.
carves into the d.c. underbelly (not wholly without sympathy ...
he was tangential to the kennedys after all) through the mid-20th century.
gets under the skin of the ruling class and their hangers-on, poking at their boils and inconsistencies as it goes.
fantastic turns of phrase and some intriguing (a senator's connection with his dead confederate-general father) and tragically sexy (the relationship between the media mogul's daughter and the cutthroat congressman) elements.
gonna try more gore, though.
and i have some lovely memories of reading it on the metro in central d.c.
but taking a trip to washington seemed a decent occasion to yank it off the shelf).
This is the penultimate installment of Gore Vidal's generally excellent Narratives of a Golden Age, and, naturally enough, was the first to be published (in 1967; the last one was published in 2000, The Golden Age).
It is also, in my view, the least interesting of the books (though I have not read Burr) and seems more gossipy and full of his trademark dialectical-ironic aphorisms than the others - it is somewhat shorter on plot, politics and characterisation than Lincoln or Hollywood, for example.
Гор Видал рисува раждането на империя във "Вашингтон, окръг Колумбия"http://www.knigolandia.info/2011/03/b...“Започвам да пиша за тази книга с леко недоволство.
Очаквах повече, много повече, особено след великолепната публицистика на "Вечна война за вечен мир", но се оказа, че литературната версия на раждането на американската империя ми се стори безинтересна и скучна.
Гор Видал проследява няколко десетилетия от американската история - от 30-те до 60-те, - в които се фокусира върху скритите политици - тези, които губят изборите.
Видал вади на показ именно тях - опозицията, които пламенно вярват, че тези президенти са пагубни за държавата и са убедени, че могат да се справят по-добре.
