https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1066065.Eve
Sí, lo sé, la portada es horrible! Vamos, que si hubiera tenido que escoger este libro solo por la cubierta... (Juro que el yo saqué de la biblioteca es mucho mejor) A parte de esto solo puedo decir que la historia me ha encantado en mayúsculas. Me encantan las novelas con personajes atípicos y sin duda Chase es un maestro a la hora de crearlos. Ella es una prostituta y él un ser sumamente egoísta, falto de moral y, hasta, violento. En cuanto a la trama, redonda.
«Ева» (1945) - совсем не типичный роман для Чейза.
Клерк с рыбзавода по имени Клив Фарстон забирает рукопись пьесы у умершего от рака соседа и издаёт её под своим именем.
Влипнув в эту токсичную историю «перспективный» драматург методично уничтожает свою репутацию, будущее, а также женщину, которая в него, на самом деле, влюблена.
Особенно на том мета-уровне, где автором текста является его главный герой - редкостная мразь и - главное!
Здесь даже необычное для Чейза название книги приобретает в финальной сцене на катере смертельную долю сарказма.
Instead you have a tale of infatuation the lead character has with a prostitute with leads to his downward spiral both in personal and professional life.Clive is a playwright dabbling with Hollywood biggies having earned big bucks from his sensational debut play and its royalties.
Eve has had a troubled childhood, sleeps with all sorts of guys, waits for her make believe hubby who is into some mining job and loathes all men including Clive, in the final chapter she beats him with a dog whip and her boyfriend cum customer kicks him into a gutter.A sad tale and as I said very unlike Chase’s other works but nevertheless it’s an engrossing story of how mad love can blind anyone from all logic and reasoning thereby leading to eventual self-destruction.I rate Eve 3 and a half but since it’s from an author I admire immensely I would settle for 4 stars.
Όλα έχουν την στάμπα του cul-de-sac* που είναι μια κατηγορία μόνη της(!) αλλά εδώ επικεντρώνεται σε αυτό που λέμε ψυχολογικό θρίλερ (Αν και κείνα τα χρόνια-1945- ήταν μάλλον αχαρτογράφητα νερά πλην ελαχίστων εξαιρέσεων).Εδώ, το κεντρικό πρόσωπο, που με εύνοια της τύχης έχει καταφέρει να βολευτεί στη ζωή του, γνωρίζει μια μοιραία γυναίκα με τον κίνδυνο να διαλυθούν όλα.
Οι παλιοί ξέρουν.Κρίνω αυστηρά και βάζω 3,5 αστεράκια διότι μπορεί να- και έχει άλλωστε- ξεπεραστεί από τον ίδιο με άλλα ακόμα καλύτερα του.Διότι Ο James Chase δεν ήταν άλλος ένας δεξιοτέχνης στο είδος του.
هذه الرواية تصلح أن تكون فيلما لربما صارت كذلك فعلا !أشعر أن اسم إيفا كفيلم مر علي ّ وربما أتخيل لا 
The Joseph Losey film version was a mess, so I sought out the book mainly to see where that went wrong. It's a strong tale of toxic obsession, and the first person narration means that there's more of a connection with the main character, who in the movie just comes across as an annoying twerp. Eve is also a fully-rounded and interesting character in the book; in the movie she's just insane. Even so, I recommend both book and movie so you can see the ways an adaptation can go wrong.
A complete mindless plot,much unlike of any James Hadley Chase that i read till date!!What a waste of time(& money) on this 200+ pager which never supplied any thrill,with no twist either.And on top of the all,the story is quite immoral & idiotic.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
In James Hadley Chase’s 1945 thriller, “Eve,” Clive Thurston blames his downfall on a tart, a call girl, named Eve, who somehow bewitched him, although she is indifferent and cold to him.
This novel is a walk through the life of a man plagued by guilt and feelings of unworthiness because his playwriting and Hollywood screenwriting is all based on a play he stole from the home of a writer-friend who conveniently had a heart attack.
How did the writer end up conveniently having a heart attack?
Was Eve really this beguiling evil woman or was Thurston a mad stalker who simply wouldn’t leave her alone?
"القصة، اي فصة لا تنتهي ابدا، ألق حصاة في بركو ماء، فهي تختفي في بضعة ثوان، و لكن لم يمتهي اي شيء، ففي المكان الذي سقطت فيه الحصاة، يحدث دوار بل دوامة، تمتد مشكلة موجات دائرية تظل تتوسع الى ان يتحرك كل سطح الماء في البركة مشكلا تأرجحا هادئا، و ينقضي وقت طويل قبل ان تهدأ تماما سطح الماء"
"Eva" (5/5)Un escritor exitoso, pero sin mucho talento ni escrúpulos, conoce a una peculiar prostituta y queda prendado de ella, sumergiéndose en una obsesión enfermiza, que le hará perder progresivamente todo lo que vale la pena en su vida. El libro no trata de una mujer, ni de una relación, sino del inexorable camino de un hombre hacia la autodestrucción.08.08.18
This book stuck with me. Isn't nothing special but I still remember the scenes with Eve.
Eve, the novel upon which Losey made his cool movie, is maybe one of the best this author wrote.
The movie was a bit of a scandal when appeared, as was The Servant (based upon Robin Maugham's novel, "The Barrier" author),the other great Losey's movie to which we could add The Prowler.
As the movie happens to follow faithfully the book, surely once You have read it, You may want to watch what this cool director did with such a compulsive obsession.
I've read this book I don't know how many times, since I purchased it (in 1975, if I'm not mistaken).When I started reading it it was late in the night and when I finished it was early in the morning!I've been a fun of Chase's for about 40 years. I recall most of his books that I happened to have read, but this particular one really amazed me because it gave an accurate despription of a real corrupted and rutheless woman and a man desperately in love with her...(Imagine that in my real life I am FOR women...)
bogey ... mi sei mancato ...Clive Thurston ha ‘ereditato’ il testo di “Rain Check”, una commedia di successo che lo renderà famoso. Lascia New York per Hollywood. Affitta uno chalet a Three Point. Ha un maggiordomo ed è fidanzato con la deliziosa Carol. Improvvisamente, Eva irrompe nella sua vita ...Clive è odioso, dannatamente sopra le righe, ma Eva … Eva è una magnifica, sensualissima … Lauren Bacall. E tu vorresti prendere a cazzotti Clive, ma resti lì, in adorazione …
الرواية جيدة نوعا ما .. استمتعت بها لكنها اصابتني بانقباض أجواءها السوداوية أثرت بي كثيراالعلاقة بين رجل (أديب مزيف) و مومس تحطم كل حياتهورفضها له يجعلها كالمغناطيس بالنسبة له و في نهاية الامريفقد حياته وكل علاقاتهو كذلك لم يكسب سوى ازدراء عاهرته
Yet another pearler from the thriller/ mystery/ murder magician, JHC, about Clive Thurston who steals the rewards of a great writer and then falls for a beautiful prostitute Eve Marlow, then gets tangled in a web where there is no escape.....
I Was disappointed as the novel had a sluggish pace but Chase made up for this to some extent by the brilliant portrayal of the female protagonist and the pitiable Clive who struggles to come out of her spell.
جميلة الروايةة ومشوقة بأحداثها لدرجة اني لم ادعها في الجلسة الثانية الا بعد أن انهيتها كاملة!! تروي حكاية كاتب مغمور وصل الى الشهرة عن طريق المصادفة وكيف تغير مجرى حياته بعد معرفته بمومس وكذلك عن طريق الصدفه! أحزنني نهاية من أحبته :( تستحق القراءة وبقوة..
إيفا: قصة جميلة، أعجبتني شخصية " كليف" ولو أنه بائس نوعاً ما وانتهازي، ولكنه صاحب قرار الذي لم يوصله لشئ في النهاية ( هاهاهاهاها ) ولكن هناك شيء إنساني في شخصيته وصادق، يصارح نفسه بأخطاءة ويعرف عيوبه، يتحدث عنها ، ليس بالشخصية المثالية، ولكنه قريب من القارئ
If there is a book that I can read over and over again, then this is it. I love the style of writing, the language, the plot development. I t shows a great sense of maturity in writing. I fell in love with this book. Awesome!!
MASTER PIECE.My favourite.I will adopt it someday. 'EVE'
The must cold-hearted Bitch I ever read of.This one made me wanna pray!
هذه الرواية فقط هي من استطاعت تحليل أمور لا يمكن لأحد أن يحللها، البطل الذي احتال على نفسه، سبب انجذاب الرجال للمومسات, و نهاية الحب الصادقرواية رائعة أنصح بها وبشدة..
