https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/802348.Anatole
Anatole lives in a mouse village near Paris with his mouse family.
Every night he goes to find scraps from the human houses to bring home to his family.
Overhearing a human's conversation one night, he realises that mice are viewed as a nuisance and seen as taking food that isn't theirs.
Anatole then seeks to find a way to do a job for humans that is valued and earns food for his family doing a job he enjoys.
The mouse family illustrations are lovely, some very cute beady eyed mice and beautiful little houses.
Anatole is a badass fucking mouse, and he knows his cheese. If your cheese sucks, he will tell you. You're lucky to have him around.
Anatole the mouse is horribly offended when he overhears two people speak about mice with abhorrence. He decides to pay people back for their leftover food by visiting a cheese factory and leaving helpful comments about the quality of its cheeses. His comments are a success; the owner of the factory uses Anatole's thoughts to improve his merchandise and the factory becomes the best cheese factory in all of France.A lovely little story set in Paris, illustrated by the wonderful Paul Galdone with tones of the colors of the French flag, red, white and blue.
And off to the cheese factory Anatole goes, with some carefully printed signs, and a plan...I can see how this might have inspired the movie Ratatouille, and children who liked that movie will enjoy this small tale of another rodent who finds a way to put his gustatory talents to work.
And I liked the old-fashioned French style of the outfits and the scenery - I could almost hear an accordion playing while I read this book.Mes amis, I recommend this book to those who are fond of mice, and fond of cheese.
Anatole by Eve Titus is a Caldecott Award winner written in 1956.
It is a charming book about a self-respecting French mouse that goes out to prove to humans that mice are not "a disgrace to all of France".
The author characterization of the mouse is well developed.
We get to know what kind of mouse Anatole is through his actions and words.
It is very interesting to see the difference between the illustrations of a book written 50 years ago and those available now.
Only black, white, red and blue are used in the illustrations of this book.
Anatole is a mouse with a conscience. Instead of stealing, he wants to earn his cheese. The plan he comes up with is clever and shows some wonderful traits about honesty and work ethics that children today need just as much as the readers of 50 years ago (if not more!) Highly recommended!
Caldecott 1957 book.This is a sweet story. But it's hard to put into words why. It's about a mouse that doesn't need recognition for something good he's doing. Maybe that's why I like it. Too many people are always needing validation and recognition.
One night while Anatole is out with the other mice gathering food for his family he overheard humans complaining about how awful the mice are.
Shocked and ashamed, he vows to earn his food rather than steal.
He begins working in secret at a cheese factory as a taster, leaving helpful notes about improvement.
He helps the business become so successful he is named the First Vice-President of Cheese Tasting and is allowed to take all the cheese he needs.
I greatly appreciate the moral; working for the things you want and need is honorable.
I'm so glad I stumbled upon this gem!•This is a Caldecott Honor book.
The story follows the life of a mouse named Anatole as he desires to have a distinguished way of providing for his family instead of simply scavenging for scraps.
Double page spread are shown on each page with a limited color scheme consisting of only white, black, blue, and red most likely due to when the book was produced in the 50s.
The color scheme, however, matches the simplicity of the story very well only highlighting the important aspects of the story.
The art medium appears to be a combination of drawing with painting, further showing the simplicity of the story.
Decades before Pixar released "Ratatouille", the award-winning animation about a Parisian mouse name Remy which appreciates good food and has sophisticated palate, a French writer published a children's book titled "Anatole". It tells a funny story about an honorable mouse which decided that it has its own social responsibilities towards human: working for perfection of cheese-tasting experience.
• 1957 Caldecott Honor Book •This book is so cute! I’ve been reading the Caldecott books, and the best part is finding books like this gem, that I’d never heard of and are so charming. I really enjoyed this! I especially love the use of color. Some of the pages are in black and white, but they just really highlight Galdone’s beautiful illustrations!Materials used: unlistedTypeface used: unlisted
What a darling character! And what a great story. The lesson is subtle and presented through fun: fun characters, fun names/name pairings, and a fun solution. The illustrations are simple, wonderfully simple. The use of only red, white, blue, and black is beautiful. Just a fun book.
Such an adorable story!
Pretty cute. I loved the illustrations.
Caldecott honor book
Oh Anatole. Did this inspire Mouse Hunt and Ratatouille? I think so.
If only everyone could find a career they hold so dear.
Retrograde gender roles but still a delight.
I adore this book. This is my go-to recommendation for a good laugh along with a good story. Well written with ADORABLE graphics.
A more traditional version of Remy from the Pixar movie Ratatouille.
Adorable illustrations accompany a story that encourages readers to earn their way in the world and to do what one loves as their chosen profession, even if it requires creating their job themselves.
Very adorable.
Each night the male mice go into the city to go to homes and bring back cheese for their families.
One night Anatole overhears the couple in the house he's getting food from.
The next night he sneaks into a cheese factory and tastes every cheese.
So each night Anatole returns and adds more labels and takes more cheese.
Thus he is honorably earning the food for his family.The illustrations are in black, white, red, and blue.
They are attractive and clearly illustrate the story with much emotion on the mouse faces.
The character was lovable while the illustrations charming (Paul Galdone being one of my favorite children's illustrators).
But my absolute favorite is Anatole in the cheese tasting room -- because I like cheese just as much as Anatole does.NOTE: There are other stories available from the duo Eve Titus and Paul Galdone including ANATOLE AND THE CAT (#2), ANATOLE AND THE ROBOT (#3), ANATOLE OVER ITALY (#5), ANATOLE AND THE POODLE (#6), ANATOLE AND THE PIANO (#7), ANATOLE AND THE THIRTY THIEVES (#8), ANATOLE AND THE TOYSHOP (#9), and ANATOLE AND THE PIPED PIPER (#10), so enjoy them all.
He uses pen and pencil and watercolour to give shading and texture to his work and blocks of colour are laid over the top to provide contrast throughout the book.It and Anatole and the Cat (1957) were made Caldecott Honour Books.Galdone illustrated over 300 books in his time and collaborated with Eve Titus on many titles.
He served in World War II in the U.S. Army, Engineers.I love the classic feel to this book, the indignance of Anatole having his reputation as a respectable mouse being called into question, and his solution to the problem.
I don't want to meet the person who isn't completely charmed by this book.
Anatole lived happily and contentedly in a small mouse village near Paris, France, with his loving wife, Doucette, and their six children.
He tastes all the cheese, leaving his signs and notes for the cheese-makers, “add a little vinegar” or “needs more grated onion.” What will happen when Monsieur Duval finds Anatole’s notes?
What will happen when the cheese-makers follow Anatoles suggestions?
The text, full of the sights and smells of Anatole’s Paris, is balanced between dialogue and narrative.
Although elements in the text and illustrations, such as the Anatole’s typewriter, date this book I don’t think this takes away from the characters or the story.
This book has a cute story line. It also has some french in it. (requires some practice before reading to a class) Im not sure if i would read this to my class. However, I would ave this in my classroom library.Grade level: k-2Genre: Modern Fantasy
He takes little signs with him to a cheese factory, labels the samples with "Very Good", "Not So Good", etc.
The cheese factory isn't doing so well, so the owner decides it couldn't hurt to try the suggestions of his mystery advisor.
The owner asks Anatole to show his face, but the humble mouse simply thanks him and remains anonymous, continuing to help the cheese factory in return for the food they leave out for him each night.I don't know how this award winner has evaded my notice for so long.
Visiting the cheese factory, Anatole places typed signs on the different cheeses that he samples there, indicating his preferences for their different tastes.
For this work, he brings home samples for his family and in the morning the factory is buzzing about who the mystery person is.
Anatole continues his nightly visits with his signs and everyone reaps the benefits of his trips.
Does the factory ever learn who their mystery guest is and what happens to Anatole and his family as the factories president leaves Anatole a personal letter?
