https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/154424.Consent_to_Kill
If it’s a choice of a) going to the gym and lifting weights that equate to a small car then flexing the guns whilst looking in a mirror with the occasional grunt; or b) picking up a Vince Flynn novel and living vicariously through the life of Mitch Rapp; I’m always going to pick number b.
This novel takes a different turn from the usual outing in that Mitch Rapp is not at the forefront of stopping a cataclysmic event and more a target of vengeance from some of the people he has crossed paths with in previous outings.
"Consent to Kill" is the second book of Vince Flynn's I've read, and I thoroughly enjoyed it.
I definitely enjoyed "Consent to Kill." The book is longer than many thrillers, but I didn't mind at all.
I enjoyed it all and am looking forward to the next Mitch Rapp adventure I read.
I have enjoyed his previous Mitch Rapp books a lot but this one has really cranked up a notch.
Excellent writing, plot, setting, and characters that are completely fleshed out.This novel is also an important milestone in the Mitch Rapp series as a lot changes in this one.
So Flynn avoids that problem with this marvelously crafted novel that takes a different approach to continuing Rapp's saga.
I can't say much more without spoilers so I'll only mention that it's important to read the preceding novels in this series first...and you won't be disappointed.
This novel had a Tom Clancy, "best seller" air to it, and I wouldn't normally have read it, but an acquaintance of mine recommended it highly.Unfortunately, my instincts were correct.
This is a ridiculous book.
Mitch Rapp is the super spy who doesn't like to answer to anyone and frequently doesn't.
His wife is the White House correspondent for NBC.
His enemies are assassins trafficking hundreds of millions of dollars.
He's the only one who truly understands what it takes to protect our freedom!
If only the bureaucracy and petty minds would get out of his way!Time to get back to "A History of Western Philosophy." It has more intrigue than this pulp moon pie.
I began reading Vince Flynn's Mitch Rapp books in chronological order a few months ago.
Over the course of time it's taken me to read this entire series I can say with absolute certainty that I've fallen in love with Flynn's work.
By the time I began reading Consent to Kill I felt like I knew exactly who Mitch Rapp was a person.
When you allow yourself to get lost in Flynn's work, and it's easy to do, Rapp feels like a very real man that you want to root for because of all he's done for his country.
REVIEW OF AUDIOBOOK; NOVEMBER 20, 2015Narrator: George GuidallThis was 17 hours-plus long and it left me teary at the end.
I checked the 1 and 2 star reviews before writing this review to see if they triggered anything I didn't like and forgot about but what they didn't like, weren't my issues.
I love the Mitch Rapp books just as they are - except for Anna.This installment is where I saw Mitch angry.
I loved it when President Hayes gave him the green light (via Kennedy) to go take those SoBs out.
Was it a wimpy ending?
I loved it.In my fantasies, Irene Kennedy is single and secretly married to Mitch.
Another stout work from Vince Flynn, not for the faint of heart and left wing advocates need not apply, please take this as disclaimer, this book deals with very violent and disturbing issues, many of which are beyond the scope of most sheltered CNN understanding.
Be ye warned.
But the thing that attracts me to Flynn's writing is the no nonsense attitude that should be more alive in our current political system.
But alas we are led by the elite few, a week group of appeasers and politically correct power seekers who are morally corrupt and effectively ineffective...Long live the stars and stripes and may the founding principles of freedom burn forever bright in the bosom of my children.
Mitch Rapp is one of the more interesting characters that I've come across in literature and Vince Flynn is an exceptional writer, so I had set a pretty high bar when I started reading Consent to Kill.
Mitch is a pretty intense character to begin with, but he takes it to a new level in this novel.
There was a high level of violence, so it's not for the squeamish, but it all added to the novel.
This may be the best of the Vince Flynn novels that I have read and I would highly recommend it.Carl Alves - author of Blood Street
Vince Flynn is a Twin Cities writer who reads like a DC policy wonk who hangs out with CIA types. Wild guess is his sources are Clancy on tech things and Cheney on policy. Like his others, this one is fast, furious, fun, great!
Evil foreigners want to kill the ruggedly-handsome super-assassin Mitch Rapp, but their assassin misses the mark and only manages to further inflame Rapp's already-inflamed martyrdom complex by killing his gorgeous pregnant wife instead.
The book's big attempt at a twist is that Rapp decides to spare the assassin, but given that Flynn takes every opportunity to present Rapp and the assassin as mirror images (they're both the best at what they do, but have become disillusioned with how easy the killing has gotten; also, their beautiful wives are both pregnant), it's pretty obvious that the man of action will be given a pardon, while the moneymen and string-pullers must pay the full, gruesome price.And that's it.
Pop QuizTrue or False: I believe that aggressive use of overwhelming force is FREQUENTLY the ONLY means whereby evil men, their surrogates, and often, their governments, can be effectively controlled.True or False: I have previously, thoughtfully, considered the possibility that if confronted by someone who intended to, or had, harmed someone I love, I would not hesitate a single heartbeat before shooting said person or persons in the head, at close range, and that having done so, I would not suffer a moment’s remorse.If you, like I, can answer emphatically TRUE to both of these statements you will probably enjoy Vince Flynn’s Consent to Kill.
Judging from the likelihood of things in those movies (view spoiler)[like having to break into a server "from the outside" of the tallest building of the world, or your foster brother killing himself (falsely) and his own father just for revenge for you coming into his life (hide spoiler)], I know nothing about espionage.So I read this book.
(hide spoiler)]But the plot was so compelling that I sort of want to read other books by this author just to understand this one better...
Throughout the book, the reader follows the life of Mitch Rapp, a CIA operative who works in counter-terrorism.
The story follows a young couple and contract killers who have taken the 22 million dollar job to kill Mitch Rapp.
All the while, the Director of National Intelligence, Mark Ross eats breakfast with the prince of Saudi Arabia, who is also a known sponsor of Al Queda terrorist actions, and in turn discusses sensitive information about Mitch Rapp and other United States operations.
The top counter terrorism agent's house does not just have a gas leak.All in all this book was great, it was a perfect balance of action, drama, and conspiratorial suspense.
Consent to Kill takes place not long after Mitch saved the US from Nuclear War from Al-Qaeda in Memorial Day. Now Saudi Arabian billionaire Saeed Ahmed Abdullah father of Waheed Abdullah (who was the Terrorist Mastermind behind the Nuclear Attack in Memorial Day) Saeed want's revenge on Rapp for the death of his son, and recruits 2 deadly assassins to kill him, Louie Gould, and his wife Claudia Morrell (who is pregnant).
I enjoy all the Rapp books, one-by-one, and I still have several to read, but as I said, I think Consent to Kill is the best one yet!
Another terrific Mitch Rapp yarn. I like the new characters addition of Louis and Claudia Gould and I would very much like to see them in another story (down the road) where they might appear on the side of the good guys. I guess that will be up to Kyle Mills at this point. I look forward to picking up Kyle's Mitch Rapp story, The Survivor.
A thoroughly enjoyable book that kept me on the edge of my seat throughout.The book starts off relatively slow but nevertheless remains interesting. Vince Flynn is a new author to me but I do intend to read more of his work.
In Consent To Kill, he finally makes his decision, and at the worst possible moment some very mad men decide to plan his murder.
From the corridors of the Office Of National Intelligence to the halls of power in Saudi Arabia, this is one of the more sweeping novels in the Mitch Rapp series, seemingly bigger in scope even without a time-sensitive scenario or "epic threat" to counter.
Flynn explored this interesting theme through the dilemma faced by one of the central antagonists and the final choice Rapp makes when retribution is within his reach.
There is a pivotal event in Consent To Kill which occurs roughly halfway through the novel which sets up the man-hunt story line in the second half.
It was an interesting experience for me.Consent To Kill finds Mitch Rapp doing his best to be a good husband to his new wife and a valuable behind-the-scenes asset to the CIA after deciding to depart from the front lines of the war on terror and take more of a leadership role with the agency.
I'm happy with Flynn's decision and I think it suits the psyche of Mitch Rapp quite well.Four stars for Consent To Kill.
I haven't read any of this series in quiet some time so was very happy to find that Mitch Rapp hadn't change one bit...didn't even get any older.
It was an interesting plot with a very satisfactory ending and it seemed like a very quick read.
There is a movie that was made supposedly from this book so having just finished the book, I watched it last night.
There are so many major parts of the storyline that have either been changed or just left out that you would hardly recognize it.
If you have read or plan to read this book and/or love this author...don't ruin it by watching the movie.
U svom žanru, koji ne podnosim, čista petica.
Audio book - 17 hours 15 minutes - 4 stars out of 5Another good Mitch Rapp re-read, probably better second time around.
This is the second best book of the series, closely followed by the American Assassin.This book is non stop action from start to finish with an ending that makes you want to pickup the next book in the series and keep going.
Vince Flynn is an outstanding writer of fiction.
The main character is CIA counter-terrorism agent, Mitch Rapp, who is highly regarded by the CIA Director and the President of the U.S. because of his success in advising on and addressing dangerous situations in the past.
What makes this particular novel so interesting is that someone has placed a bounty on the head of Mitch Rapp and you are introduced to an assassin who is targeting Rapp ...
one of the most highly skilled assassins in the world.
This book also has a most unusual ending.I highly recommend Vince Flynn.
I really struggled to rate this book because I found the first 300 pages a total snooze fest.
I found it really boring and was really annoyed with the sticker on this book that said 'Vince Flynn clearly has one eye on Lee Child's action thriller throne'.
It is a very poor man's imitation of Lee Child for half the book, except I don't like the main character, Mitch Rapp.
I struggled to like any of the characters in this book so I just wanted everyone dead in the end so I wasn't thrilled by the end.
This theme runs strong through all of the novels that I've read by Mr. Flynn.The things that make this Mitch Rapp novel stand out from the previous ones is the additional time spent on further developing Rapp and hia wife's characters.
Character development isn'n a hallmark of this series but it is noticeably stronger here.
Also of note: this is the first time that I've noticed any kind of sympathy with a protagonist in a Rapp novel.
It probably doesn't stand well on it's own, but if you, like me, are trying to read the novels in order, Consent to Kill is, so far one of the better stories.
I didn't enjoy this book as much as some of the others.
It took a while to get the scene set, a rich Saudi is seeking revenge and puts a price on Mitch's head.
The early part of the book details all the players involved - the Saudi, another Saudi, the broker, the assassins etc.
Rapp is like a man possessed and you know there will be blood!
The second half of the book did not disappoint.
What I'm wondering now though is what's next for Rapp.
I guess I'll just have to read the next book to find out.
Great book.
Mitch Rapp is the guy every man wants to be like kind of like James Bond.
But this is more realistic than James Bond which doesn't necessarily make it better or worse, it's just a fact.
A very good revenge thriller and very well written.
I highly recommend this book and American Assassin which is a prequel about Mitch Rapp.
Heck, all Mitch Rapp books are probably good but those are the only two I have read, I don't know if there are more out there.
I love the personality that Flynn gives the characters(including the enemies/bad guys) which are pretty complex, intellgent, and interesting.
I didn't really seem to enjoy this book as much as some of the others, especially the first half--it just seemed to take too long to get this puppy in gear, but then it picked up in the second half.
I have to deduct a star for the weird and wimpy ending--but I can live with it because in my imagination Rapp's buddies sneaked back into Tahiti and tied up the loose ends without Rapp being the wiser.
(view spoiler)[ On the plus side, Flynn finally rid us of the narcissistic, obnoxious Anna, but don't panic--the dog survived, so that now I can look forward to future thrillers undiluted by this anemic romance.
This series just keeps getting better; a Saudi billionaire puts a bounty on Mitch's head for the dea
I really enjoyed this very long book. Not overly wordy like TC, but constant action. I forgive him for the overnight healing of a broken arm and the fact that one character grew from 6'3" to6'4" in the span of about 38 pages, because the story was so enjoyable. Maybe not realistic, but still fun to read.
