https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11741765-jos-rizal
I want to read this.. Where is a free copy?
Masyadong OA ang pagdedescribe kay Rizal. I know that he's a hero and all that great stuffs but just how Zaide described everything is pretty annoying. Zaide made Rizal overrated
Reading for Rizal Course*****Dr. Jose Rizal may be our dear national hero and we look up to him but he lived (or at least wants to) a normal life like us Filipinos.
He traveled to so many places and keeps record on them (sketches, letters, journals, etc), furthermore, he carved his name in the book of history.
He also, like all of us do, fell in love (yeah, he was kinda flirty hin his way =_=').
It's just I want to enjoy reading this as reading a story book but the course won't allow me!!
Read this one from page 1 to the end.Rizal is an interesting chap, through the penwork of Dr. Zaide. I am especially interested with Rizal's womanizing ways...Rizal is my god!!!
pang review
chapter 17
interesting
i want to read this book
awesome
Mabuhay Jose Rizal! First ever read biography!
i only read few of the chapters of this book since it was the textbook we used in our discussion..
:)
José Rizal: Life, Works, and Writings of a Genius, Writer, Scientist, and National HeroAn interesting one!
yeah
report
i like it
need to read this book cause this is important for my study.
want to read it
good
good
pano ba 2 basahin sir
reviewer
I strongly don't believe that Jose Rizal was a Scientist, Engineer, Architect, humorist, etc whatever! wtf are you a Rizal Fan boi? I know he was a Hero but over stating him that he was extremely genius with different profession like, more than 20 of it. wtf is he an 18th century Johnny Sins? oh that dude had a big head with more than 10 chika babes, lol that dude was also a magician, was he like Masters of Mystics arts. he was also master of shadow clone technique and mangekyo sharingan, WOW!
Quite pathetic and boring, to be honest. Yes, he was a normal man with quite good linguistic skills, who also trained to become a doctor. But it doesn't explain why would he be called a national hero - except that he was obviously a victim of the regime. Too much water in the text and quite poor language... though story about him playing a prank on his wife, on 8th month pregnancy.. is something ridiculously stupid!
This book is in chronological order from the birth of Rizal up to his death. This is very informative book if you really want to study Rizal's life. Some historians would recommend to read Rizal without the Overcoat by Ambeth Ocampo but personally, I would recommend this before reading A. Ocampo's book.
Good reading material for Jose Rizal, the national hero of the Philippines. In it you'll read about his life, friends, works and even his love life. Overall, it is useful for those taking the subject on Rizal. For some supplementary reading, grab a copy of Ambeth Ocampo's Rizal Without the Overcoat available at the National Bookstore. :)
OK, they have this on there shelf but I can not even read it, like duh? useless!
aezakmi czechoslovakia
great
very nice
