https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/352582.The_Night_of_the_Hunter
All right, Lord!"Loosely based on the true story of serial killer Harry Powers, The Night of the Hunter is a truly hair-raising, spine-tingling Southern Gothic classic, which was honestly more terrifying than anything else I’ve read during any October for quite some time.
Before the ‘blue men’ arrive to take him away, Ben shares a tremendous secret with son John, and exacts a promise from him never to share said secret and for him to watch over little sister Pearl.
The Preacher is relentless in his determination to get what he wants, and I was cringing and gasping for breath as these little kids were placed in harm’s way time after time.
While it pains me deep down in the dark, fleshy crevices of my book-loving core to admit, this noir classic was a utter MISS for me, and my feelings can be fairly summed up by the famous villain’s iconic tattoos.  I don’t think it’s all the author’s fault, and my oft-awry expectations will saddle a large chunk of the fail burden for this one…but more on that below. First a quick summary to set the table.PLOT SUMMARY:Taking place in the American South during the Great Depression, and based on the
He looks like creepy incarnate, and knowing Mitchum’s prodigious skill at portraying the dark, nastiness of humanity’s seedy underbelly, I’m confident that he can inject the sense of eerie tension that, for reasons I mention below, the novel didn’t deliver.
*shudder*Second, my biggest issue with the story, other than the little girl, was the sauntering, slow unfolding of the plot and the lack of enough impact points to drive the tension.
The Preacher is a terrific character, and Grubb does a nice job slowly unveiling his malignity and his disturbing view of the world, all of which is wonderfully reflected in his unique tattoos.
The Night of the Hunter: Davis Grubb's novel of the Sociopath in the PulpitThis novel was selected as a Moderator's Choice for members of  On the Southern Literary Trail for October, 2014. Come join us.The Night of the Hunter was selected by members of  On the Southern Literary Trail as a group read for October, 2018.  Davis Grubb, born July 1919, Moundsville, WV, died July 24, 1980, NY, NY. Grubb was the author of eleven novels.   The Night of the Hunter, First Ed., First Prtg., Harper Brothers
Listen to him sing  Times Are Gettin' Hard .Ben Harper, husband to Willa, and father to ten year old John and four year old Pearl, walks out of the hardware store in which he works, determinedly enters the bank across the street, successfully robbing the bank of $10,000.00.
He shudders at knowing he executed a man with a wife and two children.Preacher is Harry Powell, a sociopath of the highest order.
It is easy to lock John into his room while he wheedles the secret of the money's hiding place from Pearl.That Grubb has a ten year old outwit the wily psychopath might be a real stretch of the imagination.
The author was inspired by true events occurring in West Virginia during the Depression era by serial killer Harry Powers, who had married and murdered 2 widows and their children.The book begins with a botched bank robbery by a desperate man who barely has time to return home to hide the money before the police arrive to arrest him.
Harry is determined to find out where the money has been hidden but his cell mate will go to his death without disclosing this information to anyone.Harry Powell is soon released from prison and he heads straight for the poor man's widow, hoping she will give him the information he's seeking.
How can young John convince his mother that religion also had the scoundrels covered and love was not what it was meant to be for her?His dad not only left him with the secret, but also with a skiff.
And coming with it was uncle Birdie, his dad's old friend.
"You done a good job with Dad's skiff, Uncle Birdie.' 'Nothing at all, boy.
Really?Old Rachel Cooper, way down stream, many weeks away, fostered children who were left as debris along the river of doom and destruction of the Great Depression.
I loved this book! (as a child, and since). I first got this as a gift years ago, and have reread many times.
This book is perfect if you want to be truly frightened for Halloween, because I would much rather have a ghost in my house than have Preacher Harry Powell sleeping under my roof.The novel is set in West Virginia during the great depression.
His crime and the terrible secret he thrusts upon his son sets a frightful series of events into motion, that bring into the lives of his wife and children the most evil of evil men, a self-proclaimed preacher named Harry Powell, who is intent on finding the money at any cost.I’m not sure I breathed normally through the entire telling of this tale.
the terrible production values of this edition notwithstanding (i'm really torn about saying that because i appreciate that blackmask has it in print but the minimal attention to make this book more readable just hasn't been made -- a used copy would really be the way to go), this is a simply told yet complicated little novel, the story of john and pearl, a little boy and a little girl bound by a promise, who first lose their father to wild desperation and then their mother to persuasion, a woman seduced not by sin but by the idea of it.
what shocked me is that after confirming what i felt might be "missing", laughton's night of the hunter is no longer the film i see in my head having read the novel.
Well, what a great little book that I would never have picked up without Mike Sullivan's recommended read for moderator's choice for October in "On the Southern Literary Trail" group.
The dark days of the depression, a malevolent "preacher" who preys on widows for their money before he murders them, two small children trying to escape his clutches, and an old woman who helps and protects them.
All of these factors make for a riveting read that's hard to put down.
A perfect Halloween read to set the mood.Now to watch the movie, starring Robert Mitchum as the Preacher.
Some of the prose was admirable, but the child protagonist and his little sister got on my nerves almost immediately.
They didn't feel believable to me and I kept muttering things to myself like: "hey John-boy, you might be eight, but blue people?
Come on, give me a break: you must know what cops are.
Duh. Problem solved." And, man oh man, I hated that twirpy little sister so much that I found myself routing for the killer to slit her throat.
Probably not what the author intended.Four stars for the prose plus two stars for the characters equals three stars.
If you grew up watching Nightmare Theater or Alfred Hitchcock movies back when televisions were gigantic and screens were black and white you may enjoy this book which circa 1953 was the basis for afavorite horror movie starring Robert Mitchum and Shelley Winters and was responsible for many a childhood fright.John and Pearl Harper are very naive little kids growing up in depression era small town Ohio when their father swings for robbing the local bank of $10,000, killing two men, and leaving their mother Willa an easy target for an opportunistic old cell mate of their daddies named Preacher.
Read for On The Southern Literary Trail -Moderators choice 10/2018 4 stars
Based on the true story of Harry Powers and his 1932 crimes in WV, there's a 10 year old boy, his 4 year old sister, and a murderous ex-con preacher whose lives collide and entangle over $10,000 of missing robbery money. Soaked in Southern Gothic imagery, the tension builds and builds to the inevitable final confrontation. The film version is the only film to have been directed by the great Charles Laughton and has been selected for preservation in the National Film Registry.
Davis Grubb's Night of The Hunter is usually described as a classic horror-thriller.
Grubb's talent is in combining the dark reality of rural America of the Great Depression with the modern suspense of a Richard Matheson.
Yet any discussion of this novel will always end with its villian Preacher Harry Powers.
His hands tattooed HATE and LOVE has become a fixture in the American psyche and his charisma and power over people is the archetype for any psychopathic killer that appeared on stage, screen and literature after him.
Night of The Hunter is an riveting read and it is almost impossible to put down once you started reading it.
Probably worse, since the "proof" was much harder in surmise for consequence.Many years ago I read about half of this work and stopped.
Having seen it many decades ago, I remembered it too.
But honestly, I did not appreciate the skill of the word craft on that long ago read to the extent that I did in this 2018 go around.
It's a oral exhibit of evil personified- if you read some of this aloud.A terrible time when so many rural areas were filled with the "lost".
Or in some of those exact rural locations today.It's still a gruesome tale.
As Preacher goes on a quest to track down and terrorize the two young Harpers, John and Pearl, Grubb characterizes the antagonist’s sinister nature: “But these men, who had seen and understood this loving kindness and mercy in the faces and voices of their good wives, saw none of this in the face of the Preacher; saw instead the dry-toothed cunning of the hound on the hunt.”In another sense, The Night of the Hunter explores the nature of good versus evil forces in the world, the faithful versus the rotten.
Two young children are hunted down by a psychopathic killer -- who also just so happens to be a posing as a preacher.
This one will haunt you -- the psychopath is one of the most terrifying characters in literature, but equally vivid is the portrayal of ten-year-old John, one of the two children.
Of course, a famous film starring Robert Mitchum was based on the novel, but I can't imagine that it's any more gripping or disturbing than the novel.
(I haven't seen the film yet, but I suspect that many more people have seen it than read the novel.)
This is the source of one of my absolute favorite movies.
I was unaware that it was a novel or I would have read it much sooner.A husband and father due to be executed for murder and robbery takes the location of the stolen money with him.
A self styled preacher in the same cell tries to get the information from him and when he fails he goes after the man's wife and two small children.Both book and movie have great atmosphere.
Creepy and stylish.
A thriller with a slash of horror.Read the book, it's short and easy.
it's basically the movie, only instead of all the beautiful, stark & sparkling B&W photography, it's mired in a kind of dense brown Faulknerian ooze
The boy John, bound by strong oaths not to tell where his hanged daddy hid his stolen cash, finds his mother turned against him, the Preacher in his father’s place, his little sister in his care, and himself in a bad, bad dream.
The Ohio River runs through the book, with its cargo of myths, its promise of freedom, and its deep dark places of horror.
I have wanted to read this book for many years since seeing Robert Mitchum play one of the most bone-chillingly awesome villains in the history of film in Charles Laughton's directorial debut (and finale).
We often doubt that a movie will be as good as the book but in this case I was worried that Mitchum's brilliance may have turned an otherwise forgettable yarn into something memorable.
Based on a true story that happened in Davis Grubb's hometown of Mound City, West Virginia, the novel is the best thriller that I have read in years, and it's all the better for being almost true.
This book has Everything I look for in a book! I like Noire, Southern Gothic, and books about the Depression. Fits all that, and satisfies me. Best book I've read this year. Oh, and loosely based on an actual murderer/criminal. Robert Mitchum might have ruined it with his movie, but this book is a peach!
Here's the review:https://thebobsphere.wordpress.com/20...There's also a review of the adaptation
#MMBOOK2FILMCLUBFirst book In the Memento Mori book to film club.
A year of reading & watching.
Looking forward to this!UPDATE: Read this in 2 days.
That says something for this slow reader.
It says I was riveted and it is a page turner.
I hadn't even heard of the movie before, so obviously hadn't heard of the book as it is not nearly as well known as it's cinematic adaptation.
Can't you hear me telling you the obvious from 63 years in your future???!!!).
It didn't bother me at all, but just something I observed.And now, on to the movie!
Harry Powell, the widow-killing antagonist of Davis Grubb's West Virginia-set Night of the Hunter, was based on the real-life serial-killer Harry F.
Powers who operated from his small home, Quiet Dell, near a West Virginia hamlet where he lived with his wife Luella, posing as a "wealthy widower" in lonely-hearts columns.
There are numerous similarities with Harry Powell of Night of the Hunter, most obviously his name, that he operates in West Virginia, and that he preys on lonely widows, but Davis Grubb's protanist is not solely motivated by money.
Davis Grubb was a brilliant writer, uneven in the way that only brilliant writers who never become particularly famous can be. This was his most impeccable work: and Charles Laughton made an impeccable movie out of it.How come nobody talks about Davis Grubb anymore?Did anyone ever talk about Davis Grubb?
"Si chiama Predicatore. Si chiama Harry Powell. Ma le dita si chiamano amore e odio e la storia che racconta è una bugia."Ha le mani tatuate, la pelle come una maschera di cuoio scolorito, "gli occhi belli, antichi e crudeli come quelli di Erode". C'è qualcosa di più spaventoso di un uomo che crede nelle sue proprie bugie e di un mondo che maltratta i bambini?
Una maravilla de principio a fin.
Pearl squatted with the doll Jenny and the doll was Willa now and the tomato stake with the rag wrapped around it: that was Mister Powell.
Pearl stood them side by side against the bricks at the bottom of the arbor and sang a song because Willa and Mr. Powell were married and they had returned from the honeycomb.
Lord save little children!
For each of them has his Preacher to hound him down the dark river of fear and tonguelessness and never-a-door...Lord save the little children!
268Stunning book - the language is hypnotic, the plot horrifying, and John and Pearl rival Jem and Scout as the best-rendered children in 20th century fiction.
DNF. Horrible archaic language and ideals, compounded by long run-on sentences and grating slang. Quite surprised, most of those early noir stories hold up quite well.
Perfect vintage read. The intensity was spot on. Nothing I didn't love about it. Highly recommend.
