https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/676555.The_Beatles_Anthology
How the balance of power so tellingly and decisively tipped from Lennon, the pushy braggart who wrote nearly all of A Hard day's Night album, the nervy insecure one, over to McCartney the guy with the work ethic who actually thought the Beatles should do stuff and not just lay in bed all day eating acid and not writing songs.
I read John Lennon's history completely of course because he is my favorite.
I have also looked up quite a few songs that I just wondered where the ideas for them came from.I love this book because I know everything in it was approved by and actual quotes and interviews given by the british gents themselves....
John's info from past interviews of course.The storys are great, the photos are terrific.
As a Beatles fan you cannot be without this book.
I am proud to have this book in my collection of favorites.I added this book to the "also saw the movie" shelf because I own The Beatles Anthology dvd set as well.
A comprehensive history of the Fab Four, starting off with short biographies of each of the lads, and then following their career together as a band.
It concludes with an epilogue of each lad, as well, and a tribute to John Lennon.I don't know how objective this account is, but it was certainly LONG.
I probably shouldn't have bolted it down like I did.This is waaaay too much for the casual fan - this is a coffee table book you could almost use AS the coffee table, it's just that large in size.
But for Beatles nuts, it's a wonderful book to wallow around in.
When the Beatles came to India,they denounced drugs and took to advanced Transcendental Meditation lessons from a Maharishi,the world was stunned!!!They created there most creative work on the White album!!!
They are modern mythological beings and would probably have remained as such had they not participated in Anthology.The structure of this book is brilliant.
Letting each Beatle give their account of their journey together, and responding to each others' take on things, makes this not only more entertaining but gives their history a life, a tangibility, a groundedness that could have easily been lost if this were a mere summary of events.I'm listening to "The White Album" as I write this, and Anthology is comparable to its structure and feel.
I know there will be successors here in the 21st, but I am also still looking for the new format which will occur once people get on and old of the "Beatles 4/5 piece guitar band" which has been the paradigm and model for every single rock band that came after them- and anyone who denies their band has this impetus is lying.
And I am looking for that Next Big Thing, not the Next Beatles, the next step and evolution of the musical world that will have the impact on this century the way the Beatles had one on the last.
Their story, and the way it became a part of the culture and the collective consciousness, seems almost mythical. This book is a very good record of the career. But like the Anthology show, it's missing John's mature perspective on those years, and therefore does not always give a fair representation of his role. Nothing that could have been done about that, unfortunately.
THE BEATLES ANTHOLOGY.John, Paul, George and Ringo made the music that we listen to today what it is.
Without the British Invasion, we would never have had the development of rock and roll as it is today.
You can probably find other books out there about the Beatles, but this was written by the fab four; you really can't go anywhere else to get the information you get in this book.This is a must have for any Beatles fan.
A must have for anyone that appreciates the history of music and rock & roll.
Their story is great, their music is great, this book is great.
For the diehard Beatles fan, this huge and vast book deserves full stars.
As a book for the casual Beatles fan it might not be so appealing due to the sheer size and volume of this book.
If you're the kind of Beatles fan who likes to listen to their live recordings, rare studio outtakes, alternate recordings, etc.
- you probably "have" to own this book.In summary, any Beatles fan - casual or serious would love this, especially as a gift.
The more casual you are about the Beatles, though, the more likely you are to skim the book rather than absorb every detail.
I'm nothing if not a Beatles fan, but I find this book mind-numbingly boring, as I did the ANTHOLOGY TV special.My problem may arise from the fact that we do not have the interviewer's questions, just the interviewees's answers.
I think this means reading this book (or watching the DVD) is comparable to watching a dubbed movie: Something crucial is missing.
The context in which each answer is given has been removed.
The interviewers clearly have put some words into each Beatle's mouth.
Unbelievable time line of the Beatles, their success, failures, and their rise to fame. I have never seen a bibliography like this. The details are exquisite. This book FEELS real and precise. It has some amazing facts in it and it holds nothing back. Loved this book.
Amazing. This book taught me so much. It's great that the four of them wrote this, because they are the ones who know what happened, and they can call each other out on what didn't. Full of music and images, this book is a *must* for anyone who considers themselves a Beatle-maniac.
I'm not joking.My love for the Beatles is incomprehensible and increases infinityfold tenfold from understanding the writing and theory that goes behind their musicianship.
It was organized well and flows consistently.It is not possible to judge the writing of a book like this but the Beatles' speech is better and more fluent than the YA crap out there.
John suspected that a part of him suspects he is nothing and the other "God Almighty." The Beatles knew they were good by technical standards but they started out like any band does.
Laid down flat, this book is the perfect size and shape for a coffee table.
Need a low cost box spring for that mattress?
Try this large mattress-shaped book!
It lacks the spring of a box, but it'll do in a pinch!-A canopy for your smart car.
Position the book, spine up, over your smart car.
I love the Beatles music, so it was fun to hear their story in their own words.
But next time I'm going to pick a normal sized, normal-length book.
I love reading large, heavy, uncomfortbale books to read that have been a pain in the ass to travel on my daily work routine.
I mean, there was a lot of LSD and other drugs running amok thru their career, so I mean it may not be perfect and slightly hazy, but they don't pull the punches and have no qualms throwing each other under the bus occasionally.Loved it...and for the few weeks it took me to battle thru it with that damned thing called work and life getting in the way I spent it humming and listening to the Beatles catalog.
I can't really put into words my respect for The Beatles.
(Trust me, I've tried.) Just know that they're incomparable.
And anybody who thinks they're no good or overrated just doesn't know what they're talking about.
All they would have to do is listen, truly listen, and they would know.
And maybe read this book.
I read this ridiculously huge book from cover to absolute cover!!
It's the only way to really see the raw truth of The Beatles from beginning to end because it's told in their own words.
And now I am just a fountain of Beatles knowledge!!
This book will always be in my currently-reading list because its one of those books which I will constantly open and read something random and in no particular order.
Like many people, I have read a lot of books about the Beatles, and you read some of the same facts over and over.
But when you are a fan, you constantly see how good or bad a book about one of the Beatles is.
So picking up this book every once is a while is just like (now) searching through my iPod for whatever Beatles song or album I may want to listen to.
Interested in the Beatles?
Get their history straight from the source -- the band members themselves.
There are lots of great quotes and insight in the book.
My only complaints:1.) The book was a bit heavy on the early years.
Perhaps they were more interested in telling their story back then vs.
the later years when they all weren't getting along as well.2.) The book itself is physically big and heavy.
Obviously there are tons of other books out on these subjects, but none were from the band themselves.All in all, still a great book!
Great short histories of what I think are the greatest musicians of all time, they have inspired many people to pick up a bass, guitar and to sing and they inspired me to learn guitar.
The book talks about their small start back in the late 50’s and how the band came to be.
The book also has small bios of the Fab 4 and the history of the recordings and some very interesting fun facts about some songs.
The book also says how they split up and many theories why and what became of the Fab 4 when they split up.
This is defiantly the best book on the fab four that I have ever read.
The book starts off with the backgrounds of John Lennon, Paul McCartney, George Harrison and Ringo Starr.
The book starts of from John, George and Pauls Time in the quarrymen to the break up of the greatest band of all time.
My favorite part was their early days of 1962 - 1966 where they go and take America by storm and when they start to use different materials for their songs of "Revolver".
I would recommend this book to any music fans or Beatles fans.
It would be slightly inaccurate to say that I "read" this book.
I have seen every page, however.
I think I can safely report that this is the most comprehensive compilation written about one of the most influential musical acts in history.
It's everything I wanted to know about the Beatles, and then some.
And then a bit more.
Every Beatle-maniac should own this book.
Friends of Beatle-maniacs should spend a couple of hours pouring over its pages at your friend's house.
Then go buy your own copy.
I wouldn't suggest this to a new Beatles fan, but to a dedicated one, this book is holy. It's an amazing time-line of the Beatles and there are a lot of new things to learn about the Beatles in this book. It's also chock-full of funny and smart quotes that are bound to entertain.Yes, it's a long book and will most likely take awhile to read. If you're a true Beatles fan, you'll enjoy every minute you spend reading the book.
Whether you're a fan of the beetles or not, this book has fascinating facts about the band to find out.
It explains how they went from being working-class men to the biggest band in the world.
This book deals with the precautions it took to lead to success.
Their hard work ethics and passion is what got them where we know them as today.
You've just got to make the decision about what you think is your best, and do it.” That's what they set out to do and that's just what they did.
Staying on their own path is what lead them on the path to success.
Yes, it's a giant coffee-table book, it was a tad difficult to actually hold and read.
I propped it up on the couch and paged through one of the most fun autobiographies I've read.
The 'story' touches on all kinds of events throughout the Beatles career, even through the darker subjects (tad too heavy on the drugs, the eventual break up of the band) I found that the voice of the book stayed reasonably up-beat.I also loved all the pictures.
There were club photos, personal collections, publicity photos, anything and everything that a fan could want a look at.Fun to have around, and great to read little snips out of.
Als Quelle, Korrektiv und Illustration zu zahlreichen anderen Beatles-Büchern mit weniger Bildmaterial ist diese chronologisch gegliederte Montage von Zitaten der Fab Four und ihrer Gefolgsleute eine große Hilfe.Ein wirkliches Lesevergnügen ist dieser Riesenwälzer mit auf rotem und gelbem Hintergrund gedrucktem Text nicht unbedingt. Eher ein Schatz fürs Regel und gelegentliche Blättereien.
wonderful! great images and love the stories behind the beatles.
eu já vi a história dos beatles sendo contada de milhares de jeitos diferentes, mas é incrível ler o ponto de vista deles sobre cada passo no caminho :')
Great book, full of interesting stories and pictures from all four Beatles and those closest to them. Simply, the best band that ever existed. Great fun if you're a Beatles fan.
so many interesting and often funny comments and facts from the history of The Beatles along with lots of great photographs and pictures.
For a big Beatles fan it is incredible to be able to follow the fab-four from the very beginnings, childhood and The Quarrymen, playing at the Cavern and Hamburg nightclubs, through fisrt singles, various difficulties, successes, Shea Stadium up until recording of Abbey Road and the final breakup of the band.
John, George, Paul and Ringo in a decade went through so many changes in their music style and image, produced so many albums and great music along with playing so many concerts and doing films...
It was such fun to see them in all their permutations, in good times in bad, in their own voices, in their own write.
I learned that it was best to rely on sarcastic humor in the face of unrelenting fame.
And I learned that a few clever boys can do alright, so long as they remain confident and united.
Every artist needs a Hamburg, a period where they spend hour upon hour working on their craft - spending so much damn time on it they can't help but attain some form of mastery.I'm currently looking for my Hamburg.
