https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/862835.The_Greeks_and_the_Irrational
(click for larger version - bottom of page)
I first read this book during the height of my Greek phase in college--a phase, I should add, that lasted through grad school, when I did one of my fields in medieval Christian thought, largely so that I could trace the influence of Plato through to the early modern era.
Erich Fromm's Escape from Freedom (1941) and Karl Popper's The Open Society and Its Enemies (1945) were significant influences on Dodds.
(Freud was influenced by Tylor, I should mention.) Popper found evidence of these impulses in Plato's Republic, and speculated that the great philosopher was articulating the anxieties felt by members of his class toward the spread of Athenian democracy.
Dodds corrects this view, showing irrational impulses and institutions which were more widely accepted during the Archaic, Classical, and Hellenistic Periods than the works of rationalist philosophers such as Heraclitus and Plato.
At a most fundamental level, this work is great for putting Greek intellectuals in their proper place at the fringes of society and in reaction to it.This was one of the first works of ancient history to employ modern anthropological and psychological theory as a tool for interpreting the past.
Dodds was a classicist and member of the Society for Psychical Research who apparently got fed up enough with the hackneyed portrayal of the classical Greeks as rationalists to pen this popular study of the irrational elements of their culture and beliefs. It's an easy read and somewhat of an antidote to the usual picture given students in high school and introductory college courses.
While Ancient Greeks are most known for the triumph of rationalism over superstition and magic, E.R. Dodds presents an alternate history which demonstrates that, despite the intellectual advancements in the direction of reason, the Greeks (particularly Plato) of the Golden Age fundamentally retained certain pre-5th century magical (read: irrational) thinking within their traditions.
Dodds argues that the progressive excision of "irrationality" in the Stoic and Epicurean traditions turns out to be a regression--a failure to appreciate the affective elements of living a human life.
But boy, does he pack a lot of detail in: on average there are about 100 footnotes a chapter.
Interesting topic; the writing is as dry as the dust on the Acropolis; but overall too fascinating to dismiss as just pedantic.
The author --discussing various aspects of mental irrationality and how they might have been perceived by the Greeks--draws on numerous references.
At the end of each chapter (e.g., 'madness', 'spiritual possession', 'prophecy' or 'ghosts') you come away with much to mull over.
This kind of author would write rings around someone like Jared Diamond or Malcolm Gladwell.
Copious notes and bibliography placed after each chapter, rather than all at the end.
I read this book four times in a row.
The premise is that the advent of Socratic rationalism did not lead to an enlightened society (at least outside of an intellectual elite) in ancient Greece, but somewhat disastrously led to a popular/mainstream backlash that ushered in a new society that became increasingly irrational, superstitious, and fundamentalist (not to mention lacking in innovation from scientific and artistic perspectives) in ways that have amazing parallels to divisions in modern society.
The book is beautifully written and argued, and even the footnotes are worth scouring.
I would give this book fifty thousand stars if I could.
Un interesante ensayo sobre la evolución del pensamiento "irracional", entendido como mágico-místico-religioso, en la Grecia clásica a través de los textos que han perdurado, desde Homero hasta Platón, al tiempo que muestra la forma que esos modos influyen y conforman nuestra forma de pensar contemporánea.Muy interesante.
Aunque con exceso de términos en griego que me ha costado la vista desentrañar y comprender, y eso solo algunos.
La edición española es la de 1986, de Alianza.
Espero que en otras ediciones o revisiones se solucione el problema de la tipografía y se anoten los significados o traducciones de los términos.Un clásico para entender la evolución del pensamiento.
I must say that it's a few decades and takes Freud rather more seriously than turned out to be wise.) But you have your premonitions and other abilities.This took on a rather shamanistic slant -- he puts out a correlation to demonstrate that Orpheus was a shaman -- and the reason that the dreams can be prophetic is that the god-like soul is more god-like when semi-liberated by sleep.
I suggest everyone should read chapter 2 on shame- versus guilt-culture, as well as the excellent concluding chapter "Fear of Freedom."In the last chapter, Dodds asks how it's possible for a civilization to walk right up to the edge of reason and then, at the last minute, retreat into magic and superstition.
In his last two paragraphs, Dodds writes that the Greeks lacked an "instrument" for understanding and controlling those unconscious drives.
Fortunately, though, we moderns do possess such an instrument.
We could achieve a rational, open civilization, if only we choose.
You can reach literally any conclusion (perhaps excepting a self-contradiction) using logic, it just depends on what assumptions you start from -- as the very expert logicians of those Dark and Superstitious and Ignorant Middle Ages knew quite well.
Pragmatically speaking, this would be for me about two stars, but as I can sense (more than rationally grasp) the quality and use of so much of the book I cannot read (such as most of the footnotes, almost all of which are pure Greek plus a smattering of French and German with a pinch of Latin), I've deigned out of my wellspring of munificence to bestow an up-rounded three stars.
The boy told him: “I know it’s a terrible thing to say, but I don’t really like this stuff – it’s all so rational.” Well, that got Dodds thinking about this common idea that the Ancient Greeks were all very cerebral, gliding about in white gowns.
Dodds wrote this book just after the Second World War and I think one of the questions in his mind was, not just that nice encounter in the British Museum, but how could European Society have gone so mad that it did what it did.
I especially like the way the author interprets how Plato attempted to modify the irrational Greek religion and culture into something more compatible with reason.
The latter is one way of interpreting Plato.
For example, as Joseph Cropsey wrote in his foreword to Leo Strauss's The Argument and the Action of Plato's "Laws" (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1975 ) (published two years after Strauss's death), "the book will engage the attention of those who continue to entertain the question whether the Laws is not a sweeping recantation that expresses Plato's senescent disenchantment with Perfection.
Zuckert, Plato's Philosophers: The Coherence of the Dialogues (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2009).
Dodds sees this as a technique of storytelling which would make tangible the feelings of the irrational—In other words, the personification (or deification) of divine intervention gave this psychological expression a tangible pictoral form for the listener, an essential literary device for a society whose approach to discussing psychological phenomena was limited.In the early Greek world, motive was not considered a factor in judgement or in regard one took to one's actions.
A book I quite enjoyed, though I would not recommend it to many non-Classicists, as it is rather dry and scholarly - Dodds' book explores expressions of and reactions to the irrational in ancient Greek culture. Topics addressed include everything from strong emotions ("ate," "menos," the role of "thumos" and "psyche," kai ta loipa) to dreams to divine possession and madness (there's even an appendix on the Maenads). If you're a professional Hellenist, it's definitely worth a look, I'd say - if you're not, probably better stick to something less specialized.
This book is the reason why I don't like Academic Publications. Long sentences with poorly explained jargons used by Academia in a niche studying field. I feel bad for the author who had to waste so much of his time studying such a non-stimulating and useless subject. I feel even worse for my peers who have to read this book for class. This book should not be read in a high school Classical Civilization class. Teachers please don't torture your students with this book.
- William JamesExistă o serie de pasaje în Homer în care un comportament nesăbuit şi inexplicabil este explicat prin ate sau descris cu ajutorul verbului din aceeaşi familie de cuvinte, (...) ate este o stare de spirit - o întunecare, o confuzie temporară a conştiinţei normale.
(...) Posedarea temporară a unui menos intensificat este, ca şi ate, o stare anormală care cere o explicaţie supranormală.
Pot chiar, asemenea lui Diomede, să lupte împotriva zeilor fără teamă de pedeapsă - o acţiune care, pentru oamenii în stare normală, este foarte periculoasă.
Cele patru tipuri sînt: 1) Nebunia profetică, al cărei zeu este Apolo.
An absolutely necessary book for anyone interested in having a framework for understanding Classical Greek Literature. It is a standard, and it is excellent--though definitely in the Greek Geek category.
Strong 3 stars,awesome research, some interesting and important conclusions that generalize a little too much for the liking of most, particularly in literature
Intervenția divină în psihicul uman devine o măsură coercitivă("ate" nebunie) odată cu cultura arhaică; faptele rele sunt pedepsite, hybris(trufia umană) mai cu seamă.
Cu toate acestea, abia prin ieșirea din epoca arhaică și intrarea în cea "luministă" unitatea morală va fi de domeniul individului, căci până la acest moment, responsabilitatea morală a ținut de ordinul familial.
Platon a încercat din răsputeri o conciliere între religie și știință, Euripide e în mare măsură un poet al mecanismelor inconștientului, din perioada elinistică interesul s-a îndreptat spre pseudostiinte și prescrierea de conduite autoritare de viață, drept compensație pentru decăderea modelului religios.
Some very (very) interesting tidbits, but the casual reader beware: according to its preface the book may be aimed at an audience with "no specialist knowledge of ancient Greece", but Dodds's aim is way off.
(Same goes for Latin and French for that matter.) For another instance, on several occasions he pulls stunts like this: On what Plato meant by "telestic" or ritual madness, much light has recently been thrown in two important papers by professor Linforth[note]; and I need not repeat things which he has already said better than I could say them.Adding a note referring to, I kid you not, "Univ.
For another-nother instance, Dodds assumes a familiarity with Greek history, texts, persons, myths, etc.
This book was a surprise. Extraordinarily erudite and inciteful. It had me re-think much of what I thought I knew about the ancient Greeks. It is a series of lectures that have been transcribed and then extensively footnoted. If you are interested in Greek thought, you will not be disappointed.
Sorprendente e inencontrable ensayo que he disfrutado de principio a fin.
Not too long ago I developed the urge to revisit some of the ancient history I studied in college.
My interest was always more in the areas surrounding history -- anthropology, psychology, sociology, etc.
-- rather than straight-up names-and-dates history.
I just finished re-reading it a couple weeks ago.In short, Dodds examines how the ancient Greeks, prior to roughly 300 BCE, dealt with the unknown, pain, and death.
The biggest hiccup for me was his assumption of the reader's knowledge of ancient Greek.
He uses ancient Greek mid-sentence without any parenthetical explanation, so I'd miss the occasional point, but it wasn't detrimental to the book's overall flow.﻿
Per me che mi sono rivolto al libro alla ricerca di un'esegesi della meccanica che "regola" i sentimenti degli eroi nei poemi omerici, sono state particolarmente illuminanti le pagine che Dodds dedica all'analisi delle celeberrime parole di Agamennone : "Zeus e il destino e l'Erinni viaggiatrice mi gettarono nel senno una feroce Ate" (Il. XIX). Il libro nel suo completo rimane, nonostante i suoi 60 anni, un contributo fondamentale, filologico e antropologico quasi "psicologico", per iniziare a conoscere la mentalità greca antica, (insieme chiaramente ad altri classici immancabili quali Detienne e Jaeger, naturalmente).
Interesting book, I enjoyed similarities between ancient "irrational" beliefs and modern "irrational" beliefs. This book was enjoyable for me even though I do not read greek and there are greek quotes on almost every page. The book would be much more enjoyable outside greek speaking or scholarly audiences if the non-english quotes were translated in footnotes. I read this book because it was mentioned on the the Julian Jaynes Sociey website. In regards to understanding Jaynes' theories the book was even more interesting.
I bought this book on a one click impulse a while back. I was reading an essay in the New Yorker or something snobby like the Atlantic. The writer was recalling the library of his friends father. The father was erudite and cool, the friend was a classic Andover jock. The writer told the father that he was a classics major and the father walked to shelf and pull out this book. The writer said the book was a pivot point in his classical career. I insta ordered the book despite having no interest in classics.
The book comprehensively documents the many ways in which the Greeks, by many considered the founders of Western rationalism, were as thoroughly superstitions as anybody else. You have to be into the classics to enjoy this book. I enjoyed it a lot and really learned a lot about the superstitious ways of the Greeks from the 800's through the 300's BCE, mostly.
El pensament a la Grècia arcaica fins al segle III. Zeus com a font de dons bons i dolents. Davant ell, els humans, indefensos, abrumats davant el misteri i el destí. La Hybris, com a font de desgràcia. Lhe llegit dues vegades, el 1997 i el 1981.
El pensament a la Grècia arcaica fins al segle III. Zeus com a font de dons bons i dolents. Davant ell, els humans, indefensos, abrumats davant el misteri i el destí. La Hybris, com a font de desgràcia. L´he llegit dues vegades, el 1997 i el 1981.
