https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/619041.Initiation_Into_Hermetics
To understand the real value of this book you have to first grasp the real meaning of the word MAGIC, if you expect to see an old white-bearded dude blowing fireballs than you totally miss the whole point.
Magic is about self-transformation, expanding one's consciousness until reaching UNITY or whatever you may call it.
If you are expecting fast and easy results than magic is not for you, in spiritual development there are no such things as "Become Illuminated in 15 minutes a Day" :) I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in becoming a man-god be it in 15 minutes a day (LOL) or 15 incarnations.
It's what it says; an initiation. So, a good introduction for those of us not knowing where to start with research into hermeticism and inner alchemy. There's lots of practical advice in the book- what exercises to perform so as to understand and control your own mind, which is what all this is about. Some are very useful for everyday life, some go beyond what I need. The first steps in the book tie in great with what I'm reading about archetypes and shadow work.
This is a beautiful book that deals with man & the forces within man that we must come to control. This book is not for everyone but it is a book that outlines the Initiate on how to come to control these forces within self.
"According to the universal laws, the magician will form his own point of view about the universe which henceforth will be his true religion."
The navy seal guide to hermetics
Many of the exercises given in this book are useful. However, the attitude towards becoming a "magician" offered in this book is blown way out of proportion. I find it hard to believe that Franz Bardon ever did the work that he describes; if he did, where did find the time to write the book?
so far it is like stumbling upon an old dusty treasure buried deep beneath the rubble of a burnt down temple....feeling responsible to spread it but wanting to hoard it all at the same time ( "the precious"?)fascinating stuff
Good info but the book is published in PDF for online still glad I purchased it for my Kindle.
Very, very deep. I loved it.
The original title in German is "the way to the true adept" (der Weg zum wahren Adepten).The last degree in this book is "union with God".
A very practical textbook containing exercises, meditations and daily practices to set your first step into Hermetics. I find Bardon quite down to earth, frank and very easy to understand. Some of the exercises will take months to master and that is fine. Take your time to complete each level.

La magia è una scienza sacra; nel suo senso più vero è la somma di ogni sapere in quanto insegna a conoscere e usare le leggi sovrane. Quest'opera costituisce la via d'accesso alla vera iniziazione magica, la prima chiave delle leggi universali; partendo dalla prima carta dei Tarocchi, guida con sicurezza il lettore, o il discepolo, attraverso tutti gli stadi della magia.
Hermesçi Bilimlere Giriş Orjinal isim: Initiation Into Hermetics Franz Bardon, 1956. Mitra Yayınları/ Ezoterik Klasikler Dizisi, 2008. 292 s. Bülent kısa kitapları da tamamlayıcı-pratik bilgi olabilir..
Is this book dry in places? Yes. However, as far as hermetic studies go, this book is the easiest to read, and understand. I'd highly recommend it to anyone curious, or just starting out on their hermetic path. I found that it simplifies a higher understanding of not only ones self, but of life.
There are a lot of great exercises in this book. I do believe that Mr. Badon is a bit of a braggart and not realistic in the timeframe that he thinks people can acquire these abilities. It would take a lifetime alone to acquire just one of the abilities listed in here.
There's lots of info here. I figure it would take 20 to 30 years to absorb all the information in this book.
A surpirse for practical magic
Most probably the best magickal initiation training.
For those who enjoy the power of imagination...This is one of the best books I have ever read.
I have to re read this one....too much for me the first time I tried it
It’s very difficult reading, pedantic in style, of a program of meditative exercises I can’t imagine anyone ever finishing, not even the rich & idle.
Even just a daily, seated meditation practice is one of the hardest things in the world to keep up.
This is that x a million.I started out trying to pause where I am in the exercises.
Eventually I decided to just finish the book, if only for the sense of accomplishment.I’d recommend it for all yogis though.
There’s a lot in here that’ll seem familiar to anyone with some interest & experience with the deeper, more cerebral aspects of a yoga practice.
Most of the book is filled with hands on practices.I think my mindset is in the wrong place as I am too dismissive of some of his ways of thought.For example, I find the air, fire, water,etc. elementals to be an alien concept and this and other differences in thought patterns make it hard to imagine myself going through with the exercises at this point in time. That being said, if this ever goes down in price (its ~$30 for non-digital) I might want to give it another shot.
The Bible IIAs an ordained baptist decan this work is a godsend.Your chapters on healing and the other positive thingsin this book; would make any true hearted well intentionedPerson blush. My heart grew three sizes exponentially
საფეხურების ნელ-ნელა შესწავლა ქართულად შეგიძლიათ magma.ge-ზე, ოკულტიზმის სექციაში.
I can't imagine anyone who raves about this book actually practiced it.
A lot of stuff that was out of date by the time Plato was born.
Find some basic overview of the pre-Socratic philosophers, (I hear Oxford's The First Philosophers is good, I liked the series of podcasts here), and read Hermes-Trismagestus yourself.
You just have to put up with stuff like this a lot:"The wise Archimedes once said, 'Show me one point on the Universe and I shall move the Earth!'Very few people probably know that this sentence is concealing a great occult mystery, namely the secret of the fourth dimension."(my SIDES)
Byla jsem ochotna u alchymistických kydů tolerovat tu onanii nad živly, ale oni se asi fakt nikdy nezamyslí, že třeba vlastnosti hmotného světa nejsou analogiemi pro 4 "živly" a jeden éter nebo Will z W.I.T.C.H., ale že je to naopak, že si to prostě sortujem, hledáme společné i tam, kde to není, a co...
Předmluvy Otylky a Bardonova syna autora vychvalují a je super, že pro ně byl inspirací a klidem, ale mně to až moc připomíná moji představu o světě, kdy mi bylo 12.
A neasi, už na začátku nemohl vynechat karmický princip, copak jsem Deepak Chopra?Jednou se k tomu třeba vrátím.
Lucid prose, decent for beginners, but bogged down with far too much dogmatic bullshit. A fair place to start getting an understanding of Hermetic Magick, but don't rely on this book alone.
As usual, becoming a sorcerer is way too much work. How can I practice all of these exercises AND scrub myself with a boar hair brush every day, and hold a job and a social life?
