https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/415412.A_Bell_for_Adano
It’s 1943 and Victor Joppolo, an American Major, is assigned to oversee the town of Adano in occupied Italy.
Joppolo passionately believes in the American system, and through his idealism—which reminded me a little bit of the movie Mr. Smith Goes to Washington—he accomplishes great things for the town.Ironically, the novel’s antagonist is also its force of good: the American military.
It's amusing to see how the military's extreme bureaucracy and pettiness actually shields for Joppolo for awhile, but ultimately nothing can protect him.
The writing is clear, evocative, and ultimately very kind.
I found myself literally laughing out loud! Very humorous and heartwarming! 😊
I read this at a time when I was feeling pretty down, and it felt good to read a book with a lot of heart, and with a strong clear message against big and little fascisms.
The age-old conflict between the tolerant and generous spirit of democracy and the imperiousness of those who feel themselves above the law could not be clearer, the message could not be more plain, and with its comic vignettes and earnestness of spirit, the book could not be more heartwarming and poignant.
An amazing start to an amazing career, and a war novel admired by both troops and citizens of the time, its low price here makes it a perfect acquisition for Hersey fans, WW2 buffs, and those compiling a collection of Pulitzer-winning first editions.*Oh, and yet more fascinating trivia about Hersey, a man who's been sadly forgotten by the culture at large and deserves to be re-discovered: he once won the National Jewish Book Award despite not being Jewish; a critical essay on the dullness of grammar school literary samplers directly inspired Dr. Seuss to write The Cat in the Hat; and in the late '60s Hersey became a passionate champion of anti-war protestors, the Black Panthers and other countercultural movements, all while serving as a Yale dean, owner of the school's bulldog mascot, and overseer of the campus's antique letterpress program.
I could definitely see what General Mattis was thinking when it came to assigning this book and how in order to succeed in an effort of this nature, a grand authority that is completely out of touch with the situation at hand knows very little about that particular situation.
Hersey highlights this importance and gives us a clearer understanding as readers about how war is more than just taking down the enemies with force.Major Victor Joppolo is an American soldier of Italian descent that is overseeing the allied invasion of the Sicilian village of Adano from Mussolini's Fascist grasp.
LOVE LOVE LOVE! Why have I not heard more about this classic? Picked it up almost at random and feel forever changed. What a charming, funny, forever enduring look at humanity and leadership. Don’t read the plot description, just go into it blind and enjoy yourself.
This Pulitzer-prize winning novel was such a pleasant read.
Based on true characters and events, the author tells a heart-warming story of how U.
S. Major Victor Joppolo, the commanding officer in the southern Italian town of Adano shortly after the American invasion, tries to bring American democracy and justice to a town accustomed to fascism.
The meeting of these two cultures often presents hilarious misunderstandings, but in the end, the residents come to appreciate what Major Joppolo is trying to accomplish.Some of the dialogues in this book often left me laughing out loud.
A great book if anyone is in need of lighter fare!
The war is in its final days to the north, but here, there is conflict of a different kind.The main character and leader of the American occupation, Major Joppolo, is an Italian American from the Bronx.
In the process, he deals with some humorous and some poignant situations.The book is a little too light and simple by today's standards; the stereotypes of army personnel (including a vulgar and insensitive general) and the local Italian personalities seem trite.
I'm sure it was pretty "fresh" in its day.
Then I realized that everyone except Joppolo is denigrated, and he is drawn as just a good guy trying to do a good job and be liked and be not too vulnerable to his foibles.
So, I'm getting along on the humorous bits and being moved by some tragic bits.
Then I get to the end and find that the horrid American officer who couldn't be troubled to learn the "wop" language gets off free, as if the author thinks he's just another dude who is not quite as wonderful as Joppolo.
So, you know what, I didn't particularly like this book.
Decades ago, a high school classmate raved about A Bell for Adano, but for some reason I never got around to reading this novel until recently.
This well-crafted novel also offers a civics lesson, so desperately needed today, about the wonder of democracy and ethical leadership, especially to the people of the small Italian village of Adano, who have suffered so long under a totalitarian regime.
Hersey takes readers on a bittersweet, yet hopeful journey as his humble hero struggles against the entrenched corruption of the former fascist regime and the incompetence of his own military bureaucracy to convince the people of Adano that in a democratic society they may decide their own destiny.
I love this book and never tire of rereading it.
Hersey won the Pullitzer Prize in 1945 for this story of an American Major who is assigned to oversee a small Italian town after the invasion in the waning days of WWII.
There is a wide assortment of colorful characters, but none of them is a caricature - all are very real people and easy to imagine.
The story is sweet, but the ending is sad.
The fact that it is foreshadowed right at the beginning does not make it any less sad when it happens.
But that's life.
And certainly military life.
An interlibrary loan from Fort Vancouver Regional Library in Vancouver, WA.I only knew of this author from the fact that it was required reading to read his book Hiroshima when I was in high school.
This book was his first book and he won the Pulitzer Prize with it!
It reminded me of those feel good movies of the decent man in an indecent world.
Then this man comes in as part of the occupation and shows them how decent America can be.
Not because America is decent and good, but because America CAN be.This is a wonderful little book, I just loved it.
At first, I thought this a weakness of the book; but by the end, I had come to appreciate the beauty and effectiveness of this simplicity in telling the kind of story that Hersey wanted to tell.
It’s actually a touching, beautiful, and moving story - and its simplicity adds to its charms in this regard.
It shows what kindness can do in the context of suffering and foreign occupation.
But Hersey also shows the evil side of war and occupation, even by the U.S. military high command in Italy.
I didn’t start out thinking this book was worthy of the Pulitzer, but I certainly think so now.
Here’s why:•	Although John Hersey’s A Bell for Adano takes place in World War II, it is more about human nature than about that war.•	Although A Bell for Adano shows the general nature of wars, it is more about why the United States fights them.•	Although A Bell for Adano is about ideologies underlying regimes, it is clear that of all the U.S. military personnel occupying Adano, only one man is a patriot for the right reasons.•	Although that one man, Major Joppolo, exhibits daily justice, mercy, wisdom, and democratic government to Adano’s people, he is subject to U.S. military personnel who abuse authority and do not understand democracy.To see the blossoming of Adano’s townspeople from cowering, bitter, closet-rebels under Fascism to welcoming, cooperative citizens under Major Joppolo’s loving and respectful administration of democracy filled me with joy to be American.
It also could not have been written in any other era, certainly not in today's (2007) post-Vietnam, Iraq-burdened United States.[return][return][return]In a Bell for Adano, Hersey tells the story of the occupation and administration by Allied forces in 1943 of a recently-liberated Sicilian village.
Early on, Joppolo discovers that the people of the town are both greiving and outraged over the loss of their 700 year old town bell.
It was a tone for everybody".[return][return]Moved, Joppolo dedicates himself to finding another, suitable bell.
I chose this book solely on a recommendation by an English teacher by may or not be reading this.
The story in General can be about many different things, I haven't even figured out what the author wants me to think about the book, or the content in the book.
Others, are so mixed and emotionally inconsistent, I don't know what to think of them, it makes me look deeper, and in a book like a tidal wave of mysteries, that's hard to do.
I would not recommend this book to people like me.
I plan to read a good book next.
When I first read and quite favorably reviewed  Hiroshima  early last month — followed up by a re-read and a less enthusiastic review of  White Lotus  — I also mentioned  A Bell for Adano  as a title I vaguely recalled from my youth, although I was quite certain I’d never read the book.I now have — and regret to say that I’m quite underwhelmed by it, all of the positive reviews here and at Amazon notwithstanding.Forgive me. I know that Hersey won the Pulitzer Prize for this book. And although th
The plot-line, too obvious.Although it is possible that a Christ-like character in the mold of Major Joppolo exists somewhere on the planet, and although it is even more likely that an antichrist-like character (or dozens of them) in the guise of General Marvin populates the military, the timing of their first and only meeting, of General Marvin’s arbitrary and pigheaded order that carts would henceforth not be allowed inside the gates of Adano, and of Joppolo’s recall from Adano (for eventually countermanding that order) the very evening the whole town of Adano is celebrating his “reign” is, well, just a tad too pat.
Once I had read Hiroshima I learned to trust Hersey's observations and writing skills.Hersey wrote A Bell for Adano from interviews of real people in Italy during the war, and from interviews with a local American who was the military commandant for the Americans and who was the inspiration for this book.I came away with a great appreciation of the charm of Italy, and will always remember the commandant as an example of what a decent American ought to be in this kind of situation.
While I found the narrative fairly unengaging, though, it was the simplistic characterization and the racist depiction of the Italian characters that truly drove me off.
The Italians all speak in an “Eye-talian” fashion, and most of them are simple-minded and foolish.
I’ve seen a lot of reviews stating that the protagonist, Major Joppolo, is unbelievably nice, but the man consistently speaks to the Italian characters in condescending fashion, and it’s extremely irritating to read.
I picked up this book as I wanted to read a book that concerned Civil Affairs-type operations (I also read The Teahouse of the August Moon for this reason; it, too, was mired in racist caricature – and in the movie version, Marlon Brando plays a Japanese man).
Worthy of the Pulitzer Prize.
Winner of the Pulitzer Prize in 1945; this story of rebirth and respectful occupation is still relevant. Major Joppolo is a quintessentially decent American. One that there are very few of in literature. Hersey's portrayal of spreading democracy through kindness is refreshing, and poignant. He does not preach ideology, instead he creates characters that we invest in. Would highly recommend.
I tend to have a bias --- I favor books set in war time.
I find it such a rich and interesting canvas in which to illustrate humanity.
It brings out the worst in people.
And, sometimes it also brings out the best.
This book was such a lovely tale of leadership and respect.
I went into it blind, knowing nothing more than the fact that it won the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction.
I am so glad that I went into it with no impressions or expectations.
It is a quiet, subtle, lovely story of one American man stationed in one little Italian town in WW2.
I don't usually write long reviews, but this book frustrated me so much, that I just felt like I had to.
The Italian characters were cardboard flat, acting like mentally challenged children regardless of their age.
They kept licking the heels of the American Major who, although had good intentions, kept asking himself "Will they understand this?" "Can I make them understand that?" trying to please a bunch of simpletons who never contradicted him and adored the new leader with no exceptions.
It could be even some Magic Realism novel (if only this wasn't WWII and the Nazis, but some fictional war between Villariba and Villabggio) 3.
Indeed, for the first few chapters I wondered if reading A Bell for Adano would be a total waste of my time: I thought the beginning of the story seemed forced, especially because the description of characters (Borth, for instance, is described as a "wise guy") didn't match with their behavior.
Major Joppolo, the main character, and his relationships with Captain Purvis and Zito, the town usher, are perhaps the most hilarious and enjoyable.Hersey's style in a way fits the wise guy Sergeant Borth, who sees World War II as a big joke and thinks everyone needs to calm down some, the best.
It's just a war story about a major trying to take care of an Italian occupied town.
I don't know if a movie has ever been made of this work but as i pictured characters as it unfolded I could see this being an absolutely hilarious movie. The book was really humorous as the American forces take over a small town as WW II occupation begins in Italy. Between the town folk and the military staff there is much humor, and good feeling coming out of the pages. As always there is one villain and without him there is no poignancy to the story. Quick read and well worth the effort.
This was one of the very first summer reading assignments that I loved so much that I read it twice in one summer... I still love it and am a proud owner of a 1st edition... It's one of my favorite things. The story is well told and provide an interesting look at Italy in a traumatic time in history. Well worth the read and re-read.
A very good story. If it was not, it should easily have been made into a good movie.
"A Clunker Today"It's 1943, just after the invasion of Sicily by the American army.
Fifteen years after Hersey wrote this novel (which was a great success at the time), "The Ugly American" tried to show a similar thing---that we have a lot to offer the world, but we are our own worst enemies.
The American occupation of Sicily is an interesting bit of world history, but our approach to the period has changed over 74 years, and it would be hard to convince most contemporary readers that we are so benign.
Major Victor Joppolo, an American of Italian ancestry, is the temporary administrator of the town.
When he asks leaders of the community what they need most, despite many hardships, they tell him their most immediate need is the replacement of their historic 700 year old bell, removed from the town by Mussolini to made into war materials.
While helping recover or replace Adano's bell, Major Joppolo helps solve many of the town's other needs.
I think the novel holds up well today, 74 years after it was written, because the it highlights the ideals of American democracy and the difference one dedicated leader can make in a community.
It was easy to read, the plot easy to grasp, the simple characters attracted my interest.
But that was the high point and from there my impressions moved downward.
The characters were too simple.
Admittedly, the good guys had flaws or weaknesses, but they were minor, easily explained, understandable from the narrator's point of view.
The bad guys, primarily the General, were just bad.
It was inconceivable that amidst their flaws they could still provide value to society, potentially great value, or that their personal morals and values were worth delving into.
The novel painted a very simplistic view of the world that I had a hard time buying into.
