https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99110.The_Complete_Tales_and_Poems_of_Winnie_the_Pooh
I bet if he had called it Whiney the Pooh it wouldn't be so popular...Aw look, out of fucking honey again, why does this always happen to meeee.... and my dealer's been arrested....and they stopped my benefits payments again ...
For the Celebrity Death Match Review Tournament, The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy (9) versus The Complete Tales and Poems of Winnie-the-Pooh (24)It was a most enjoyable picnic.
Pooh was just finishing the last bit of honey and licking around the edge of the pot in a Contented Way, when he suddenly realised that he was sitting on something.
Something..."Oh bother!!" said Pooh.
I've sat on two of Rabbit's Friends and Relations!
Oh, what will Christopher Robin say!"Christopher Robin came over and examined the two former mice."Pooh," he said gravely, "these are not Friends and Relations.
Whisper who dares!Christopher Robin is saying his prayers.God bless Mummy.
Straight from the seaHe wolfed down the cake and left none for me.And Owl kept on winking and shaking his headBut nodded and beamed when I only took breadThen Joe fell to the floor, clutching his tumAnd I got so frightened I called for my MumBut God bless Rabbit and God bless PoohFor whisking the crumbs away and the plate tooAnd Joe looked so ill, and his face was so whiteAnd the doctor says that he won't last the nightOh!
Thank you, God, for a lovely day.And what was the other I had to say?I said "Bless Rabbit," so what can it be?Oh!
Whisper who dares!Christopher Robin is saying his prayers.(Note: No animals were injured during the making of this review)
For the Celebrity Death Match Review Tournament, Heart of Darkness (25) versus The Complete Tales and Poems of Winnie-the-Pooh (24)Pooh was getting rather tired of everyone ganging up on him, and he wondered if there was some way he could grab just a couple more votes.
Oh, help!""But who won?" asked Christopher Robin."Pooh did, of course!" I replied.
"That silly old Heart of Darkness wasn't even in the story, so Pooh won by default.""I thought so too," said Christopher Robin.
Written for the Celebrity Death Match Review Tournament"Oh, Bother!" stated the Pooh-Bear."What could be the matter, Pooh," Asked Christopher Robin.
I'm supposed to fight Hamlet in the Death match semi-final.
But all of a sudden these other Characters are showing up and messing up my plans.It's a sock puppet orgy."Robin looked a little embarrassed and wondered if the bear was peeking in his window last night, But he continued on."Why, Pooh.
Don't you have lots of honey.""Yes""And you have your friends.""Well, yeah but..."It was that time Tigger, Piglet, and Eyore showed up.Piglet grinned.
Now you can rest up for the final."And Pooh was happy.
For CELEBRITY DEATH MATCH PURPOSES ONLY: The Complete Tales and Poems of Winnie-the-Pooh versus HamletScene: Christopher Robin is reading a book.
Pooh: Why Goodfellow Robin, does that book displease you?Christopher Robin: ‘Tis a tedious tome about a princeTroubled by his father’s death.
Pooh: Most tedious tome indeed, Goodfellow Robin.
Mayhap some hunny might sweeten its tone?Christopher Robin: Alas, my tutor hath required me To learn my lessons from this book.
Pooh: So he seeks to adulterate you?
Christopher Robin tosses out the book, and goes off to Hundred Acre Wood.
Match point: Winnie the Pooh
We  embarked blindly, steaming upriver, the broad expanse at river's mouth giving way inexorably, twisting, narrowing, steadily encroached by trees until we were groping our way through a green, grasping tunnel.For weeks, we spied no native denizens, only glimpsed the occasional rustling of leaves.
This obsession allowed for no sense of my own personal danger, until, by my calculations almost at my destination, I rounded a bend in the river and beheld a crude structure stretching from one bank to the other, crowded with those same natives who had previously kept themselves scarce.
Milyen Sakkfeminizmus felkeresi az erdo, és megmutatja, Kanga, hogyan lehet, hogy egy Hamlet TrapEgy nap, Sakkfeminizmus sétált át a Hundred Acre Wood, amikor találkozott barátjával Kanga."Hello, Kanga!" mondta Sakkfeminizmus.
"Remélem, élvezi, hogy egy rurally alapú leszbikus feminista egyedülálló anya?""Én," sóhajtott Kanga, "ha csak mi nem ezt átkozott Hamlet kóborol csinál soliloquies egész ido alatt.
Figyelj, itt van újra!"Sakkfeminizmus hallgatta figyelmesen.
"O az unalmas férfi soviniszta, aki beszél 'taking arms against a sea of troubles'?" kérdezte."Ez o!" mondta Kanga komoran."Ah!" mondta Sakkfeminizmus.
Aaaaaargh!"És o esett át halott."Köszönöm!" mondta Kanga.
"Us leszbikus feminista egyedülálló anyák kell összeragadnak!"Hamlet 0 - Kanga 1
Anyone who gives Milne anything less than 5 stars ought to be held down and punched in the head by a horde of small, righteously indignant children.
Well to be more precise, the crockery was making its own way to the suds in the sink, flying through the air with just the slightest little nose wiggle from Mary.Mary: I have a Halloween face for my bout with fatso, do you like it?Bettie: haha, that'll scare Team Pooh.
Seriously though Mary, how DO you rate your chances against Christopher et al, they have a lot going for them in the 'aaaaaaaaw' department.Mary: I have a little something up my sleeve.*MP gives that rigid backed and arms folded little smirk*Bettie: As we are alone, I'll tell you something that has always made me smirk.
What can I say about the Pooh-bear and company that has not been said before?
Hmm…That they are Republicans?
Marxists?
Surfing Sufis?
That they emanate from Namibia?
Tobago?
Sri Lanka?
Tijuana?
Managua?
Rotterdam.
Possibly the Forest is really Bacteria, Fungi, in a Petri dish?That he and his friends are symbolic for Minimalism, Wind, Time, Flatulence, Touchdowns, Ben and Jerry’s?
Maybe Forest Bedouins in search of…Tents?
Water?
Malbec?
Velasquez Paintings?
Contact Lenses?
And this Honey business.
Is it really true that Bears like Honey?
Or only honeyed viands.
Like Baklava.
Member of the Crimean Crew Team?
The Denver Federal Reserve Bank Members?
Li este livro para o projeto do DisneyInUs, que consiste em ver um filme da Disney por mês e ler o conto/livro que lhe deu origem. Os filmes são escolhidos à sorte e no mês de Agosto calhou ver o Winnie the Pooh. O livro que deu origem a esse filme foi o Winnie the Pooh de A. A. Milne.Para saberem o que achei do livro e do filme podem dar uma espreitadela ao vídeo que fiz a falar de ambos e a tecer algumas comparações entre os dois: https://youtu.be/61imh8GdS5E
Yes I thoroughly enjoyed it being brought up on classics stories of Winnie the Pooh (along with Thomas the Tank Engine and a fair few others).This book is a great collectors hard back edition containing many of the famous stories which Disney turned in to cartoons and now are synonymous with the character.
This is a great book to cleanse your reading pallet especially after being immersed in something a little more challenging or heavy.
Like many books of this type that may not be for all bit I think not only are these stories part of my childhood then also help to remind me that reading has neither boundaries nor requirements if you enjoy a good story it should be available to all
I can remember sitting in my closet with a flashlight and these stories as a child more vividly than most memories of the time.
As kids we had most of them individually, so this complete collection is soooo nice to have in my library.
My Daughter loves these just as much as I did and I hope she passes these time honored stories along to her kids as well.
Thank-You Mr. Milne (wherever you are) for shaping my childhood and teaching me that it was ok to have imaginary friends and very strong belief that it is possible to talk to bears, pigs and tiggers' too!
I mean, Winnie the Pooh... He's my childhood. What can I say?
And at six weeks post partum I listlessly watched my fourth season of Nip Tuck while the baby went through her first growth spurt, while I existed on no more than 2 and ½ hours of consecutive sleep, and I would occasionally TRY, really TRY to turn on my nook at read a page or two of “Sweet Tooth,” and go to bed in despair, knowing would never, ever finish it.
So, it’s a shame “Sweet Tooth,” is off the agenda, but there are other things!So once a month from now on I’ll be adding to my book list and my reviews, but they will most likely be books that baby and I read together.
Such a cute and innocent book. Makes me very nostalgic.
I would highly suggest it, my dears, as a good old fashioned read aloud.I should stop before I start repeating myself, because I don't really know how to express how much I adore the Winnie the Pooh tales.
A. Milne was allowed to randomly capitalise words in the middle of sentences, and realisations of how those quaint little capitals were a gorgeous way of showing the beauty of words and the imaginations of children.And it's a dear love for the last chapter: In Which Christopher Robin and Pooh come to an Enchanted Place, and We leave them There.
THIS IS MY JAM (or should I say honey?)Review to come.Blog | Instagram | Twitter
I’m so glad I own this book for my very own! The older I get, the more I see the whimsical and playful genius written behind these simple stories.
I had no idea I would love this book so much!! It’s sweet, thoughtful, funny, and taps into what kids think about. We absolutely loved the Pooh Bear stories, and I was surprised by how much my girls loved the poems! This will be a staple in bedtime reading!!
Rescued this one a while back. It's in good shape except for overall curve/bend in it. Moisture? Humidity? Anyway, this edition is from 1996. The awesome illustrations have been colorized. No opinion on that from me as I am not a big fan. Medium fan? Trivia questions will follow ...Moving along and enjoying it, especially the colorized illustrations. The text is a bit on the twee side for an adult I suppose.Finished with the WTP part of the book and will stop there. The rest of the book contains other and similar children's literature by AAM.
Ah, so that's why Winnie-The-Pooh was my favorite when I was very young.(Of course, I'm sure it helped that I'm Christopher Ronald.)This is the first time I've gone back and read these stories since I became old enough to remember them.
Though, you could say, I've yet to actually read them, strictly speaking, since they were read to me by my parents when I was little and this time I listened to Peter Dennis ("the only readings of A.A. Milne's Pooh classics authorized by Milne's son, Christopher Robin," we're told in each introduction) read them to me.
At 24 it's still not too late to return to your childhood for a romp in the Hundred Acre Woods and a good game of Pooh Sticks.Overall I thought this edition in particular was beautiful, and I really enjoyed reading the introduction about AA Milne and his son Christopher Robin.
Recommended for anyone who has a young child, or who wants to read stories from their childhood in a new light.
And then Piglet did a Noble Thing, and he did it in a sort of dream, while he was thinking of all the wonderful words Pooh had hummed about him."Yes, it's just the house for Owl," he said grandly.
"And I hope he'll be very happy in it." And then he gulped twice, because he had been very happy in it himself."What do you think, Christopher Robin?" asked Eeyore a little anxiously, feeling that something wasn't quite right.
What would you do, if your house was blowndown?"Before Piglet could think, Pooh answered for him."He'd come and live with me," said Pooh, "wouldn't you, Piglet?"Piglet squeezed his paw."Thank you, Pooh," he said, "I should love to."
Winnie the Pooh is one of the most beloved bear's for a reason.
Even without a brain he can come up with great ideas to help his friends and short poems when he wants to pass the time when he isn't eating honey.
I've got to admit that Eeyore is probably my favorite sassiest Winnie the Pooh character of all.
I've always liked him and after reading his sarcastic remarks I love him even more.
I also can't believe how Tigger really looks.
Tigger is more of a kid who is taken care of by Kanga.
Still one of the weirdest books I've ever read, which is ironic because I loved the movies as a kid! I wasn't planning on reading anymore of the stories but I bought this purely as a cover-buy. It wouldn't ever be a re-read but I don't regret my time reading these stories because now I can say I've read the 'book-versions' of all the well-known characters .Plus it's a pretty quick read and the illustrations were lovely :)
Timeless.Avoid the Disney illustrations.
After watching the new movie "Christopher Robin" this summer, I wanted to try to discover how I came to know about Winnie-the-Pooh, or maybe what I knew about this character.
And after struggling with a complicated and convoluted book by Ivan Doig that used words like "plenipotentiaries" (who actually uses words like that?), this Winnie-the-Pooh book was a delight.
Of course there's Pooh, a Bear of Little Brain, and his friend Piglet (my favorite).
The pure sweetness of the stories is almost painful in a beautiful way.
Go read this book.P.S. I do love Ivan Doig.
This audio version narrated by Peter Dennis is amazing! He is a master of character voices!
