https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17255435-a-shade-of-vampire
I was reading other reviews and many people loved this book , so I started wondering if something's wrong with me .
I thought "Another freaking twilight".The problem was that sometimes I couldnt keep up with the story because of the dual pov.The chapters were too short and the changing pov irritated me.All in all , I came to the conclusion that maybe I wasn't in a mood of reading a book like this .
Who knew your Yoda best friend's advice could come in handy against a Vampire Prince with a tortured past?!
As a result, the Prince has taking a liking to you and gives you the plush room right next to his in his pimped out tree house (because where else would a vampire sleep?
Just as you are mentally saying goodbye to your life, the Vampire Prince comes out of nowhere and rips you away from the attackers.
The basic plot for A Shade of Vampire is Sofia coming to accept Derek and help heal him.
This book has a lot of mixed reviews from being compared to Twilight to people saying it's amazing.So I was like;Big mistake there!Yeah, I was an idiot for wasting time and money on this.
And those were extracted from only 15% of the book.I do have to agree with my peeps here saying that this is like Twilight.
I mean, the guy is a tortured vampire...
One would think that is enough reason to know the guy has no good intention.About the "vampire world" that is contemplated here, I didn't find it amusing or interesting in any way.
WHAT THE...?WHAT THE HECK...?!WHAT THE HECK JUST HAPPENED?!!!! Errmm, i think it's illegal to end a book like that. You juts can't do that, OK?Sophia is kidnapped at her 17th birthday. She's taken captive by a vampire to an island where the sun never shines. The island is called The Shade. Sofia is selected out of hundreds of girls to join the harem of Derek Novak, the dark royal Prince. Sofia soon realises that if she's to survive she must gain Derek's affection. But will she? And what will hap
Errmm, i think it's illegal to end a book like that.
Sofia is selected out of hundreds of girls to join the harem of Derek Novak, the dark royal Prince.
When i read through some 'bad' and 'good' reviews about this book i heard it's a copy version of twilight.
Just because this book is about vampires and they're pale doesn't freaking mean this is like twilight!
She was also a strong character who didn't like to be told what to do.
I really loved this book.
Overall A Shade of Vampire was an extremely entertaining book that i stayed up late for because i couldn't put it down.
One night when the family goes on vacation together Sofia decides she's going to tell Ben her real feelings when one of his exes comes along and ruins it.
Ben says he's going to spend three nights that the ex has left with her and he misses Sofia's bday.
Derek has a bond with Sofia because she shows him kindness before he is about to eat her and thus he is intrigued with this.
There are some politics that are involved as Derek has to find out a way to keep the vampires safe from hunters and other crap going on.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/My friend Sh3lly was reading this series awhile back and her updates were all shades of Twilight. . . .  Don’t judge. Anyway, I figured what the hell. She was even nice enough to attempt to lend me a copy but there was a glitch in the system somewhere because I suck at technology the universe is out to get me. Lucky for me the porny librarian is also versed in all things vampire and my turn came up at exactly the right time for mindles
Lucky for me the porny librarian is also versed in all things vampire and my turn came up at exactly the right time for mindless fluff – a holiday weekend.I was sooooooo ready to get my fang on.
You are 100% right so don’t bother trolling me.
I’ve read enough vampire books to know that .
And I’ll still probably eat it right up.
Things that I’m apparently okay with?
117 year old creepers who like to watch high school girls while they sleep.
Things that I’m not okay with?
Are you a fan of Twilight?Are you a fan of The Vampire Diaries?Are you a fan of the My Blood Approves series?You're prolly gonna like this, then.
But there actually wasn't all that much annoying drama.
Not a perfect story, but I am intrigued to see what happens next.Noticeable tropes: - ancient male falls for the virginal young heroine (he just happens to look 18)- love triangle (not obnoxiously done)- special snowflake (also not overly obnoxious)Pre-review: Marking this as currently-reading for vampire month.
I don't recall reading the premise before, but it actually sounds intriguing, so...
Bella paints such a vivid picture of the island of The Shade that serves as a refuge for a coven of vampires, led by their prince, Derek Novak.
Derek's very evil brother, Lucas, kidnaps Sofia and brings her to The Shade for Derek's harem but secretly wants Sofia for himself.
This book is packed with just the right combination of evil and romance.
You can't help but fall for Derek right along with Sofia and let me tell you, there are plenty of awesome one-liners in this book that melted my heart.
I am a sucker for a good vampire romance and this didn't let me down.
DNF at 81%  It's my first DNF of the New Year. I guess I had higher expectations, but this was too cliche for my tastes. Just not the book for me.
Otherwise - for those who partake in the occasional guilty pleasure - this should scratch an itch for you.A Shade of Vampire is the first novel in a series that seems capable of satisfying those who were charmed by the chaste, boy-met-girl romance Twilight offered readers while incorporating darker, more sultry elements that entice viewers into shows like The Vampire Diaries.
That's not to say it's a knock-off of either, per se, but it does draw from such sources to give readers who are fans of the vampire genre familiarity while offering originality and establishing a world of its own.A Shade of Vampire is about 150 pages long, which made it a short read and a good example of what readers can expect of the series.
It’s a quick, captivating read about a 17 year old teenager called Sofia Claremont, who gets captured to an island called The Shade.
Despite the terrifying circumstances, both vampire and human develop feelings for each other.This is a relatively short read, told from the perspectives of Derek and Sofia and it quickly covers the event of her capture and how they develop feelings for each other.
I also wanted to hear more about Sofia’s ‘best friend’ that she has feelings for, Ben, and whether he felt the same way.Luckily there’s a sequel coming out which will hopefully delve a bit more into my questions.
OMG!!!! This book is brilliant! I am in love with vampires, hmm after Edward Cullen, Salvatore Brothers :) They ruined me for good!This book had everything and I was gripped from the start to the end. The moment Sofia meet Derek, am gone! Intense connection they had :) *swoons*N Derek is such a swoon-worthy vampire.  Can't wait for more for these two! If you loved Twilight, grab this book. It is fab!Thumbs up!  *This book was given for a honest opinion by the author*
That said, I liked the way the captive/captor scenario played out here, much more than *throat clear* Across the Wine-Dark Sea… because although Sofia is being held against her will, Derek is much more compassionate and empathic in the role as captor.
And not only let her go, but also let her best friend (a boy he is aware she has deep feelings for) go, as well *claps enthusiastically* (hide spoiler)] He has a great deal of lenience for Sofia, and their love arc is a lot easier to relate to; for all it still makes no goddamn sense why a 500 year old vampire would be interested in a 17 year old girl…I will very likely continue this series, at some point, as I found it fairly light and fluffy for the vampire genre.
So, yes, I didn't like it.The characters themselves were flawed.Sofia was, might I dare say it, a 'Mary-Sue'.
3. Every single character, including Derek specially, believed her to be a paragon of virtue, strength and hope.
But I counted the number of Derek's almost-declarations of love...and there were a lot.
I was provided an ARC in exchange for an honest review so even though I didn't enjoy it very much, I thank the author for giving me a chance to read it.
A copy of A Shade of Vampire was kindly sent to me by Bella Forrest in exchange for an honest review.  I really disliked A Shade of Vampire. It seems to me that Forrest has taken a book from the Stephenie Meyer school of writing and followed it exactly. The plot is bland, it’s full of purple prose, the characters are completely unlikable and the heroine made me want to throw things and scream. It manages to be sexist and misogynistic on practically every page – our darling protagonist Sofia is
The plot is bland, it’s full of purple prose, the characters are completely unlikable and the heroine made me want to throw things and scream.
It manages to be sexist and misogynistic on practically every page – our darling protagonist Sofia is even flattered about being the property of a blood sucking vamp.
Stockholm syndrome incoming.-Sofia – you’ve been kidnapped by vampires and you’re probably going to die.
-‘In the middle of his performance, it dawned on me that this was exactly the effect Derek Novak had on me: he always managed to – in one way or another – take my breath away.’ p.53 I’m going to get an injury from all this cringing and eye rolling.
I really like how the book started and I love that Sofia has a crush on her best friend but then she gets kidnapped into the vampire world?!
I mean, don’t get me wrong, I LOVE Derek, but he’s a vampire, so he’s also broody and very moody and loves human blood.I love starting a new paranormal book because you get sucked into a whole new world.
Yeah I know it gets better and better.Tons of stuff happens in this book, it’s short, sweet and pack full of romantic elements.
I’m so glad to be starting this new series.
Not Bad. Is this as good as Vampire Academy?
The pages turn fast, and the story is easy to wrap around.What I like: 1) Sofia is a "different girl".
But instead of just claiming it, we actually get a reasonable medical diagnosis as to why.
2) The comaraderie between the girls in the "harem".
Modelesque boy that Sofia loves for reasons unbeknownst to me.
And yes, there's insta-attraction, but it was handled well, in my opinion.We'll see if book two works out these issues.
Yes, I thought it was good enough to read on.
"~Sofia What I loved about this book was that it wasn't a predictable vampire romance storyline.
He's cruel, selfish, and abusive of his power, and he's destined to wreak havoc as this series moves forward!But despite the evil that Lucas represents, he is still the brother to beautiful Viviene and the gorgeous, troubled Derek (not exactly a name from the 1500s, but I digress), the vampire destined to bring change to their kind.
Overall, great new vampire series with captivating characters and a storyline that's sure to keep readers hooked for the long haul!
Reading the description of this book made me think meh...maybe not my kind of read but it being a short story I thought why not.
The description gave me a completely different picture in my mind as to what I ended up reading.
I really liked that the drama starts so early in the book and doesn't drag on about the past and the descriptions on everything surrounding the characters.What I loved the most about this story is the fact that Sofia stayed true to herself and didn't change for Derek.
For a short story I didn't feel that their love was rushed but actually grew in time.
Derek is the 500 year old vampire prince just woken from a four century slumber and given his own harem of beautiful human women, of whom Sofia is included.If I could go deeper into plot and character, I would.
The story is predictable simply because there isn't anything more to it than what I mentioned above.So Derek and Sofia are thrown together and for some unknown reason they intrigue each other.
(Why do fantasy writers still use such contrived methods to create tension?) I don't know.They spend the book at this vampire sanctuary Derek's family built while he was sleeping.
I have to honestly say that this was very very enjoyable.
Didn't know what to expect and stayed away from any reviews so as not to spoil the story.
Went into it without any expectations other than the fact that readers seemed to like it as the ratings were fairly high.
Got this great little book for free and have to say that it was a very pleasant surprise and will most definitely be looking for the next book from this author.
So great to be able to discover yet another fantastic indie author.
Maybe it's because A Shade of Vampire reminded me of some vampy tv shows but I ended up liking this book.
It was interesting to see that happen and I wanted to know more about them.WELL, I liked Derek and Sofia.
I'm just waiting for something to happen, like other than that kiss I got at the end.
They got closer throughout this book - which, if I'm being honest would've probably happened to anyone that was kidnapped and constantly has their life threatened.
AGAIN, UGH LUCAS!I totally called that ending though but I also can't wait to dive into the next book.
I am so incredibly sorry.
Well, the honest to Rowling truth is that the book (what I read) bored me.
The writing wasn't necessarily bad, and maybe if I had continued the story and characters would have gotten better.
But what's the point in reading a book that's simply not for you?
Or maybe it wasn't the time.
If you want the specifics, the two main characters were whiny people (or vamp) who tried too hard.
He was violating her, yet it didn't feel that way for her.
Not one for insta-love.
Possibly the wrong chick, sorry about that.- Alive or Undead ~ 2013 -
Loved it ❤ into book number 2 :)
Loved it ❤️ into book number 2 :)
One day, many months ago, in a fit of insanity I got this while it was on some sort of a sale. And today I had some free time. So I though "Why the hell not". And while it was not awful it was definitely boring. And flat. And I couldn't muster any sympathy for Sofia. Or any feeling other than mild disgust about Derek. So I know I won't pick up the rest of the series. Especially seeing as to how many of them there are. I guess I really am too old for YA.
Now I would choose a shifter over a vamp if i ever got a choice but a girl has to keep her options open so I am always willing to entertain the thought a hot vamper ;) Derek for me is a little like Eric Northman; He loves what is his, he thinks about/is into being more mainstream/working with the humans instead of just thinking they are all food, he is in a position of power, he feels little to no regret for drinking/eating/hurting people that disagree with him/get in his way/want to hurt him/try to hurt what is his.
I truly feel like I have been on a personal journey with every one of her characters.The shade is a magical island where vampires live protected from the human world under a darkness spell cast by the witch within the shade.
She places a protection spell on the island so it becomes invisible to hunters and humans.As you know vampires are not immune from daylight.To begin with you see Humans are kept as slaves but one special lady Sophia is slowly changing vampire ways with her charm.
Wow! What a great start to a new world of vampires. Loved this short read and can't wait to get my hands on book 2! The characters are fabulous and the world that has been built is really intriguing. Even though it's an incredibly short read, it's full of emotion & connections. I didn't feel rushed & there was just enough balance in the details given to where I grasped a clear picture of everything. Loved it!
a no from me.http://mrsleifs.com/https://www.facebook.com/MrsLeifsbook...https://twitter.com/MrsLeifs_2Fangs
Little did I know I would end up loving it at the end.A Shade of Vampire is the story of Sofia, a girl that has been taken captive just to enter a vampire prince's harem and Derek, the prince who just woke up from a 400 years sleep and who hates what he has become.
Even though the book is basically about how Sofia got in the island and met Derek and how their life started there and you'd expect that to be boring, it is not!
The characters of this book is what made me truly love it though.
