https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/74389.The_Plains_of_Passage
Our great ancestors ( if any other form of humans still exist, excuse me), would undoubtedly consider the Neanderthal, roaming beasts and they the first inhabitants think us the interlopers, devils for sure , after all living 200,000 years is quite an accomplishment in this captivating, exotic paradise nevertheless in fact a treacherous territory, the hairy men had a right to that opinion...obviously we prevailed...
In the meantime, Ayla and Jondalar cross rivers, have lots of sex, chase after their damn animals, and talk about where babies come from (actually, it's Jondalar doing a lot of the wondering where babies come from--Ayla must have FINALLY come to grips with it).NOTE: I listened to this on audiobook and am a super lazy person, so I am not even bothering with getting all the new names of peoples and places correct.This book is a perfect example of what happens when you write a novel and don't have a plot to fill it.
Normally I don’t bother with reviews but I decided this time I would.
I give this book 4 stars because despite so much repetition it was still a good read and I am eagerly getting to the next one.
After I read the last book and read some quite funny reviews about how often things were mentioned (like we’d forget) I decided to keep a tally list for this book for some of the most frequently mentioned things.
My goodness you’d think no one ever had blue eyes!!Very fun read none the less…
I’m really enjoying my trek across ancient Europe with Ayla and Jondalar, long as it may be.
Even though a good bit of this story took place between Ayla and Jondalar, alone as they made their way back to Jondalar’s homeland, they did encounter several groups of people along the way.
Some good… and some not so good.
But the two managed to get even closer to each other, and come to depend on each other in ways they had not done so before.
Also, they depended on their animals, and supported them throughout their journey.
Especially against his own people.
Okay, good.
I liked this one slightly better than the last one.
Ayla and Jondalar have kissed and made up and are on their way back to his home in Zelandonii.
They meet some people, have some laughs, do it in the bushes, and show everyone they meet how awesome they are.
Also Ayla's superwoman transformation is complete.
Oh Ayla, you obviously have me under some twisted spell.
I'm still at the very, very beginning of the book, but see that one little star? That's because the book essentially opens with an extremely graphic mammoth sex scene.Oh, Jean...what am I going to do with you?
yes I love the series that much....then I realized I had to skip over 10 chapters, #13 - #23 as I flipped and scanned it was all a tedious and meticulous description of the landscape.
I enjoyed the natural geographic studies of these sections, as I would any...but I'd already read it in the first three books and several times already in this one.
Although I agree with most people on the redundant quality of the descriptions presented here, I have to admit, it was necessary.
Just finished this book, for the um-teenth time, and about to start page one of The Shelters of Stone.
The more books are published in this series, the less magical the life of Ayla and Jondalar becomes to me.
These books are quite unique, and therefore it is not neccessary to repeat so much.
There's no chance that one could mistake Ayla's journey with another main character's journey.
Apart from that, once you got into the books, there's no way that you could forget the main stream plot.
Or, if Auel chose different words or scenes and did not repeat this many times, it may be the translators?
I still wanted to know what happened to Ayla, so I kept on reading.
That's a whole lotta nothing, guys.The book  starts with a mammoth pr0n scene.
See how much I heart you?More nothing happens for a while, then they come across a herd of funny looking animals and Ayla asks her One True Love what they are.
Because with as much research as Ms Auel does for her books, she can't remember that she's mentioned the stupid onagers at least five times already, including the time that Ayla hunted them because she wouldn't kill horses anymore?
They were what she was hunting when she found Baby!They passed massive herds of bison, and giant deer with huge palmate antlers, horses, onagers, and asses...
If you already read one of the 1st three books you know how much Auel loves to put tooons of details in her descriptions -and you'd be aware of her sex scenes, which to me were a little bit too much!
Book number two was about a journey as well, but it was funny, light hearted and lots of things happened and I was quite impatient to see where Jondalar and Thonolan's journey would lead them, what tribes they'd meet, what were their habits...I'd easily skipped over Ayla's parts to keep reading about the two brothers!
1. The Clan of the Cave Bear ★★★★★2. The Valley of Horses ★★★★★3. The Mammoth Hunters ★★★★4. The Plains of Passage ★★★★★
There was a lot more action than in the 2 books previous, and for the history buffs like myself, Auel teaches readers a lot about glaciers, ancient animals, hunting techniques, etc.
Also, there is a section of the book where Ayla and Jondalar have a meaningful interaction with a couple from the CLAN!
Jondalar finally brings Ayla back to HIS homeland, his people, and BAM- end of book.
This, the 4th of 6 books, is the last one that I have and so I will just assume that everything works out and that Ayla and Jondalar spend their future having amazing PLEASURES until they explode.
Por otra parte, hay que pasar del lenguaje, porque tela (que se emplee la palabra "cruzada" en el sentido que imagináis, pues chirría, pero es lo que hay).
Tienen que pasar más de trescientas páginas para que la pareja se encuentre con alguien.
Muy pesado, mucho, pero esto hay que asumirlo, no pueden recorrer estas distancias en 200 páginas, aunque la sensación de que pase mucho tiempo no está conseguida, se va más en el empeño de describir por donde pasan y a mí eso no me ha llegado, no conseguía formar una imagen de la geografía.
Auel should rather try and incorporate such information into the story, so the explanation seems relevant to the storyline, not stick it in anywhere with no relevance to the text at that point and try to ram it down our throats.The entire first third of the book, Ayla and Jondalar spend travelling without meeting any people, and Auel describes at length every little detail of their journey down to the Black Sea and upstream along the Danube before they come into contact with the Sharamudoi tribe.
I still have most of the books in this series. Just could not give it away. Read it a decade or more ago.Jean M. Auel, née Jean Marie Untinen is an American writer. She is best known for her Earth's Children books, a series of historical fiction novels set in prehistoric Europe that explores interactions of Cro-Magnon people with Neanderthals. Her books have sold 34 million copies world-wide in many translations.
The first quarter of this book was incredibly boring.
There’s no doubt that Auel is an incredibly talented researcher but sometimes it feels like she does so much research that she feels like she has to include every little detail.
There is constant info dumping.
We are told about every tree and plant and their uses, weather patterns, and animal migrations.
It’s great to be learning all these things but it weighs so heavily on the story.
Thankfully after the first part of the book, the story got really good.
This was a lot better than the previous book and finishes off so you want to continue on.
Of course, she also insists on staying long enough to treat those who have been injured and neglected, before they leave to continue their Journey.Next up are the Losadunai, who live at the edge of the glacier Jondalar and Ayla must cross to get to his home.
As Ayla and Jondalar continue their journey they run into those same young men who have attacked a Clan (flathead) man and woman.
After a brief period with them, they at last reach Jondalar's home, with a cliffhanger ending as we wait to see how they are welcomed.I always enjoy seeing Ayla win over new people, and this book was no exception.
Honestly, this long,painful experience seems to go in it's own basic pattern...Step 1: "Let's share pleasures, Jondalar!""Hellz yeah!
Also, it's in this book where I finally realized how much of a Mary Sue Ayla is.
I had already suspected something by the third book, when the love triangle buisness was something even a soap opera would be ashamed to air.
Jondalar, on the other hand, is your typical angsty Gary Stu. Granted, I always found him much more likeable than Ayla, only because he did kind of grow on me after a while.Overall, I could barely get half-way before stopping for my own sanity's sake.
Nowadays, this hulk of a book serves as a lovely doorstop to my basement.
the most boring book I've ever read!
and i must give credit to jean auel because i read about how much work and research and time she puts into these novels and i know how accurate her descriptions are of everything .
but she easily devotes 4 pages (atleast) to describing the terrain, the flora and fauna, the animals .
and the book is 865 pages .
the longest one in the entire series so far!!!!!
and a few years later i re-read the series, but i skipped this book.
i love how the main character is so sure of herself, and what she wants in life... but the repetition of what she learned in the books that came before this get a little annoying, but it doesnt happen that often in this book, so i skipped a few paragraphs.over all, in this book, the author creates a strengthened, comfortable relationship[between the main characters] with new adventures, and has that same rich-in-detail that i love so much.
This one was a relief from the third book, The Mammoth Hunters which I found to be full of "Oh, come on!" with the love-triangle drama between Jondalar, Ayla, and Ranec.This book was enjoyable and well-paced.
I confess to getting very curious over whether any of these medicenes and foods would really work and taste good.
If all the repetitions and tellings of what happened in previous books (same information told and retold several times) were cut out and the scientific explanatins of the flora, fauna, clima and culture of the Ice Age were compressed and the geografic descriptions of areas for ever changed and never to be seen were minimized this book would be half the size and twice the book. The story is compelling but there is just too much you want to skip.
This novel is book four in the incredible Earth's Children Series.This is a series that really must be read in order.In this book, Ayla and Jondalar are continuing their journey across a perilous prehistoric Europe.
As if that's not enough, Ayla is able to communicate with animals and has with her what appears to be a tame wolf, which is also unheard of.When I read this series, it was a long wait between each book (8 to 10 years each), yet I remember all of the books pretty clearly.
There are detailed descriptions of communication, foilage, animals, fears, healers, herbs, all of it.
Auel's great Ice Age saga the Earth's Children series is The Plains of Passage, which tells of Ayla and Jondalar's epic journey across Europe.
Auel's great insights into humanity come through marvelously in the novel once Ayla and Jondalar start encountering people who are criminally deviant.
Often in the saga, Auel had presented nearly Utopian societies in which people worked cooperatively with respect between genders, especially in the previous novel.
The deviants presented in The Plains of Passage offered a good counterpoint and examined how things can go wrong in a society.
Even when the novel was draggy, I kept reading because Ayla is such a compelling and sympathetic character.
The best parts are when they interact with other bands of people along the way.Ayla continues to impress everyone she encounters, and she is coming into her own not only as a healer, but as a bit of a spiritual/cultural guide.
My favorite part is when Ayla and Jondalar encounter a Clan couple that they help.
Jondalar has come a very long way in how he regards the Clan, having thought of them as animals and of Ayla's mixed-race child as "an abomination" (as we read over and over during the course of three books).
In this book he interacts with Clan adults, and does so with respect and understanding.
I have a hardcover edition with a map in the front and back, and I kept looking at the map and the number of remaining pages and thinking "how's she going to get this all in?" Well, she does, but there are definitely a few parts that feel a bit rushed, and the whole sequence where they decided to just throw themselves over the side of the glacier in the bowl boat and then find the horses the next day seemed out of character ("Oh Jondalar!
The Plains of Passage is interesting for its descriptions of glacial-epoch flora and fauna, but some of it drags and I found myself longing for some interaction with other ice-age people rather than just watching Ayla and Jondalar.
I also really enjoyed meeting other "Caves" and seeing that other people had invented new technologies and that Ayla wasn't responsible for everything.I first read Auel at the (impressionable) age of 14 and loved the books.
I'm sad that this book didn't leave me as breathless and enthralled as it did the first time I read it.
That and between book 2 and this book, the sex scenes were coming on so hard and fast that you had the feeling it was because she couldn't think of anything better to write.
Instead, in this book, Ms auel is at least ATTEMPTING to integrate detail reviews into the story line rather than simply dumping paragraphs from previous books on us yet again, and has begun developing some new characters...
although the repetitive nature of some of those with previous characters is a little annoying.Clearly, while a much better effort than her last two, this book is NOT on par with Clan of Cave Bear, although fans of Alya will be placated.
Αρχικά οι επαναλήψεις απο προηγούμενα βιβλία χωρίς λόγο είναι πάρα πολλές και εκτενής.
Το δε τέλος είναι το πιο απογοητευτικό, μιας και (σποιλ παρακάτω) αναφέρει οτι η Άυλα αναγνώρισε τον τόπο της.
Το θέμα είναι οτι εξ αρχής η Άυλα έχει παρουσιαστικό Ζελαντόνι ενώ η αρχική φυλή της ζούσε κάπου κοντά στην περιοχή του Καυκάσου.
Ο τρόπος που το γεφυρώνει είναι το όνειρο που είδε με τον Κρεμπ, χωρίς ωστόσο προσωπικά να με καλύπτει.
Μέχρι στιγμής πραγματικά ήλπιζα σε κάποιο σημείο των βιβλίων κάποιος να ήξερε την φυλή της Άυλας που χάθηκε στον σεισμό, ώστε να μαθαίναμε την πραγματική καταγωγή της.
She covers so much stuff and gives the background story to everything that happened in the last 3 books.
I'm sorry, but I really don't know why anyone would read this who hadn't already read the first 3 - enough with the background into, already!
Plus, after 3 full books, I've had enough of the sex scenes.
And the extremely long narratives about the vegetation and landscape are just a bit much in this book.Plus...
I've got to start reading everything else that piled up while I was gone!**Taking this to read on my lake trips**Part of my favorite book series of all time (The Earth's Children Series).
