https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7980.Pearls_of_Lutra
=============Original review=============This was most extremely excellent and I'm writing this [review] on a little, tiny digital keyboard and the temperature is relatively very hot today, so I think I'll finish my review right now, what?
Brian Jacques must surely run out of ideas, but fortunately,he'll never run out of stories :D
Grath is always strong on my heart, second to Bragoon of course, and I'm glad Jacques decided to introduce another strong female.
I would just like to point out that this story becomes even better (or at times even more frustrating) if you have someone together with you to try to guess the riddles.
It got me involved in the story so much more, although I'll admit my guesses were not right nearly as often as I would like to admit.
Ublaz Mad Eyes, the evil ruler of the island called Sampetra, is on a mission to find the Tears of All Oceans.
Meanwhile, Grath Longfletch sets out on a journey to seek vengeance for the murder of her otter tribe and family, and joins forces with Martin (Mattimeo's son) and other friends of Redwall who are in search of Abbott Durral and a young bankvole maid who were captured by Ublaz's evil followers.
Back at Redwall, Tansy and her friends follow clues to find the six rose colored pearls known as the Tears of All Oceans.
If you get to this point in the Redwall books, you know the formula.
Strange undertones of race theory and absolutely no attention to actual mustelid behavior!
Did anyone ever bother to tell Brian Jacques that otters and badgers are also mustelids like ferrets and prey on mice?
For a later Redwall book, only half-trying with the formula, this one works well.
There's a fun heist with the pearls and a connection to the original Redwall book through Matthias's grandson Martin.
After the original three, Mariel, Salamandastron, and this one are the only ones I remember with real fondness.
The Emperor Ublaz Mad Eyes will stop at nothing to find the six magnificent Pearls of Lutra that are designed to fit the crown atop his head, and when he finds that the pearls likely are hidden within the gates of faraway Redwall Abbey, he sends a deadly team of corsair rats and monitor lizards to retrieve the prized pearls.
When the leaders of this team capture Redwall's Abbott Durral with the intention of spiriting him back to the island on which Ublaz lives, the warrior Martin and a few others set off in pursuit, unwilling to return without their Abbey's leader.
I appreciated how Tansy was almost humanlike in her characteristics - she tried to be mature and confident; she became frustrated; she felt grief; guided by the dead Martin the Warrior, she gradually took on wisdom and leadership skills and in the end she and Craklyn were rewarded: Tansy took on Abbess robes and Craklyn became the Recorder.I always love visiting the pages of Redwall Abbey - I feel like if I were a character, I would like to be a Recorder.
I have yet to find a Brian Jacques book I didn't adore.
His books are full of adventure, friendship, good vs.
wrong, humor, song, riddles, and characters we fall in love with.
I can read any Redwall book to any age person and it's rare they won't get caught up in the stories.
My dad loved them as much as my little grandson.
The Pearls of Lutra was full of riddles, corsairs, an evil pine marten, dream visits from Martin the Warrior mouse, an otter on a mission, Dibbuns creating chaos, and a hare and owl eating everyone out of house and home.
All in all, a rollicking good tome!
Amazing book full of adventure and comedy This is one of my favorite book series and I definitely think thatBrian Jacques has created a truly amazing and wonderful worldto believe in I mean I practically am in mossflower country when I read this.I definitely think that Mattimeo is my favorite book in the series But this book was so amazing.
It was very adventurous! I liked the riddles that they had to solve!
Great Redwall book with a nice seafaring/pirate theme about it. It's a great adventure story.
This is one of my favorite Redwall books, and trust me, I have a lot! This about a sea otter bent on getting revenge on her family's killers. Holt Lutraaaaaa!!!!!!
In "Pearls Of Lutra", although there are multiple storylines, they start intertwining early on which helps with establishing and building on characters.
In "Outcast Of Redwall", the character of Bryony and her inner (and outer) torment over caring for Veil made the novel simply heartbreaking and, therefore, substantive and rewarding to read.
Unfortunately, I did not get this type of feeling from "Pearls Of Lutra".Overall, "Pearls Of Lutra" is a fine addition to the Redwall saga, although I did not feel as gripped as during other installments.
This is refreshing after several previous installments where the title is representative of maybe 30-40% of the actual content.
Pearls of Lutra occurs chronologically in the Redwall timeline after Mattimeo, with the son of that book’s eponymous protagonist and Tess Churchmouse, Martin, being Redwall’s Warrior, with his parents having since passed on.
Rollo the bankvole is the Recorder of Redwall, with spring showers ruining a festival celebrating the season.Throughout the book, Tansy the hedgemaid tries to make sense of a riddle indicating the locations of the pearls, while Abbot Durral is kidnapped, and Martin and his companions leave to search for them, encountering Ublaz’s forces and occasional lizards.
A female otter named Grath Longfletch, daughter of Holt Lutra, also seeks the pearls.
Clecky needed to fall into a hole of editorial excision and never return, and the "cute" trio of Dibbuns was obnoxious.
All four characters were a waste of paper that could have been better devoted to exploring Romsca, the ferret corsair with a conscience who protected Father Abbot Durral.
Romsca could have survived and gone to live at Redwall, where she could have renounced her past and served as an example of the possibilities inherent in opportunity.
What this book needs is pages and pages of Dibbun hilarity and endless bouts of Clecky the hare eating the cupboards bare.
I started it one summer in middle school (I had read quite a few in this series before) and never finished it, but always wanted to.
I think the best part of these books is reading the descriptions of the food and all the chillaxin' (and eatin') going on at Redwall Abbey, lol.
Still, I loved the young female protagonist, Tansy and her little friend Arven.
I love cheeky, brave, stubborn, and a little bit clumsy characters...
Still, it was nice to relive this universe that my elementary and middle school self loved back before the internet/social media was super popular, lol.
I picked up this book in middle school with no idea what it was about.
I loved the characters, I loved the world, I loved the story...I remember pretending to be one of the characters in gym class when we were learning archery, trying to channel her good archery skills.
(I was a complete failure and a total dork, but that's beside the point.) Maybe I'm looking at this book through nostalgia glasses, but as the book that got me into a series that I really love, Pearls of Lutra will always have a special place in my heart.
Very good book. A solid pace, with plenty of humor, high stakes, grandiose adventures, memorable characters, and a scintillating what-happens-next, type treasure hunt. Pair that with Jacques' masterful poem conjuring for new songs, and a healthy dose of poetic justice in the end, you've got a recipe for success. Among the best in the series, right up there with the original, as well as Salamandastron.
Detailed line drawings hint at content of following chapter. Same bad and good 'uns, with their species' accents. Overly cute kids are "Dibbuns" that tease and goof up. They almost don't need names, could substitute 'Sacrifice'. Follow the riddles. I'm hooked on the series, but time for another break.(view spoiler)[ Shades of glacier-wrecked Titanic; throw away the treasure after all the work to find. (hide spoiler)] Usually justice prevails; not always.
This was a pretty good installment in Redwall, with plenty of adventure and rhyming clues to a mystery, that were well written and I enjoyed figuring them out myself. A good series for reluctant readers.
These books are slowing merging together in my mind, but even so ... I am
3.5
I found it hard to get through, especially considering that a lot of Redwall books are much the same.
These were never -good- books, but they weren't always so boring. I've never read this one, but switch out a few names, maybe trade an otter here for a badger there, and i've read this exact one.
Finds book while cleaning that I forgot I had started forever ago. Finished it about 2 hours. Final thoughts, another great Redwall book. Why didn't I read it when I first got it?!?
I remember this one as one of my least favorite Redwall books. I just couldn't get into the characters, and the plot was disappointing to me. Still, as a Redwall book, it's of course worth a read.
One of Brian Jacques better Redwall novels
Another interesting Redwall book worth reading.
its a good read however don't underestimate the violence level- Jacques has no mercy.
Nostalgia bias, what can I say...this was the book the hooked me into the series long ago
