https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/382619.Sunflower
I live with a fear. Each novel I read will be effaced in my mind. The recall will blur and float into ether. The inscriptions will be softened and removed, leaving only vague blushes of recognition, while fertile patches of perfection are lost to me forever. Novels such as Sunflower are very supect in this regard. There isn't much of a plot as far as any arc is concerned. There are only images. They are certainly eloquent and incisive, but they are but stills and miniatures. Such taunts my seizured brain.
Thus he lived to bury three wives.Eveline is a "country miss" of Hungary, a Hungary of bygone times.
My fairy tale belly rejected this mythical fantasy land like the wolf chopped out of the grandmother with the wood ax rather than drool at the corners of a wide smile hanging in the man and rabbit frolicking on the moon sky.
If these men cannot find fulfillment in any other way than if a woman doesn't have sex then they are not interesting to me as people.
Other men have creepy mother-sex fantasies of the pure Eveline and it is so so boring.
Any plot if I can call it that is somewhat buried in myth, and always finds ways of becoming odd and farcical, one minute drenched in elegant enlightenment, the next bordering on sheer lunacy!, from drunkards in taverns to doomed aristocrats and singing gypsies there is never a dull moment, even if at times things cloud the mind like a haze of morning fog.Anyone who admires the work Robert Walser, Bruno Schulz or Sigizmund Krzhizhanovsky will in all likelihood find this a joy.
For me it was certainly worth reading, but wished it carried a little more realism in places.
SUNFLOWER is a fever dream, violently romantic, lush and crazy and demanding and bewildering and beautiful.
Mr. Pistoli is in love with Miss Malvina Maszkerádi, the feisty, determined-spinster.
Miss Maszkerádi is in love with a tree, and would like to stay that way, thank you very much.Ah, but this is the best I can do, for now: Read SUNFLOWER.
Read it over weeks and months, it changes every time you return to it, and that is never a bad thing for something so charged with life and language and the strangest ways people decide to live and love.
Yazarın tekniğini anlamadım, romanın örgüsü garip, kişiler bir ölü, bir hayalet, konusu ve zaman kavramı nedir belli değil veya ben anlamadım. İlk yarısını çok ciddiye alarak okudum ama son yarısını hızlı okuma tekniğiyle ve sadece kitabı okumuş olmak ve bitirmek için okudum. Kitabın başındaki açıklamada yazarın " bilinç akışı" tekniğini ilk kez kullanan bir yazar olduğu, J. Joyce ve W. Woolf'u etkilemiş bir kişi olduğu yazıyor. Zaten bu kitabı almam hataymış, çünkü hem yukarıdaki yazarlara hem de "bilinç akışı" tekniğine çok uzağım. İnsanın okuyacağı kitabı seçmesi için deneyim gerekir denirse bu düşünce tam da bu kitap için bana uydu.
First, let me point out that the samples available from Amazon should NOT be only the introduction to the book.
I also checked the the very beginning of the book that can be read at the Amazon site.
This is a "New York Review Books Classic"!Oh, and not only did I dislike the excessiveness of the details, absolutely nothing has happened since the first chapter when Eveline left her home in Pest and moved out to her manor Bujdos-Hideaway on the upper reaches of the River Tisza.
Maybe one should rad it as poetry, one paragraph at a time, while you read another book!
I never had much of a talent for simile, which is why writing this review is making me as nervous as a long-tailed cat in a room full of rocking chairs.This 1918 Hungarian novel was inventive, shifting storylines and characters.
And yet what I will take away from it, and what was my undoing, was simile.The book begins with a truly spectacular opening paragraph, and also our first simile:The young miss lay abed reading a novel by the light of the candelabra.
Every page, every paragraph, seemingly every sentence, as if like and as were unstoppable.
What these books have in common, aside from a poetic, archaic style, is an atmosphere of fin-de-siècle, of a gone world that the narrators are trying to bring back through the power of words.
The apparent contradiction between this nostalgia and the world that is its object makes me think that these two authors may be impossible to translate for an American audience.And this brings me to the issue of translation, and to whether translating a book from a very different culture and historical time is possible.
What is impossible to translate is what the author hasn’t said, and which is, nevertheless, present in the book: a sensibility circumscribed to a certain culture and historical time.
The abundant similes often summon images suggestive of an earlier, simpler state of affairs, the loss of which the book bemoans, as when Krudy writes of one woman that she was “a silent queen as beautiful as memory itself.” Simile, then, works to suggest parallels between the older better world and the newer sadder one: “for even the most melodious lovers have a way of dying, just like an old field hand.” Sunflower is not ultimately about nostalgia per se.
I hardly know what to say about this one.
Krudy writes like no one I've ever read before, although the thought came to me often that the dreamlike and yet vivid way he writes about snow and cold and autumn beautifully offsets the way Gabriel Garcia Marquez writes about the tropics.
His skill at conjuring so many emotive images out of one scene is incredible.
His mind overflows with dazzling images - I really don't know who is more impressive, the writer or the translator.
If you like magic realism and prose that is poetry, you'll love "Sunflower".
yarım kalanlardan...
I have just finished reading this book a few minutes ago and I am still suffused by the glow of it.
Set in the Beeches country of Northeast Hungary, Sunflower is a magical novel, with its handful of characters seeking out one another to reprise the loving moments of their lives.
The really great books in my life, I feel that I must return to them at some point in my life.
My first reading of Sunflower is, I feel, only the beginning of a conversation that will last me all my life.
What a great book!
I read it as a result of one of my Goodreads friends' recommendation.
Thank you very much for suggesting the book to me!While the plot is fairly classic and simple, the treatment is unique, rich, vibrant...
the prose is breathtaking at times!
I caught myself in profund admiration of the translator, and immediately thereafter fantasizing about what it must be like to read Krudy in Hungarian.
I felt I was caught in a whirlwind of lyricism, folklore, truculence!!
Years ago, when Emir Rustica's movie "Underground" first came out, I had a similar dizzying experience watching the film.
I highly recommend this book!
The book reads like a dream. It's oozing with similes and such lovely ones too! The only major complaint that I have is the fact that Krudy didn't pay much attention to the plot. The book reads like a dreamy montage, conveying the spirit of the scene, beautiful, hackneyed scenes but.
These passages will probably not appeal to readers who only see place setting and description as a momentary hiatus from the story's action--it seems to me that Krúdy's main subject was the world of Sunflower, and that the true hero was the time and place, of which the characters were only transient residents.Krúdy's writing is also brimming with metaphor and simile, so much so that some readers may find it tiresome after a while, although it is with such devices that he succeeds in bringing to life the country setting of Sunflower.
Instead, I think Sunflower might best be summed up as a romance from a vanished place and time--which is not something I would normally read--but Krúdy's evocative writing makes me willing to also try both works of his currently in translation, Adventures of Sindbad, and Krúdy's Chronicles, if I were to happen onto them.
I have a high tolerance for the romantic and fanciful, but even I could not quite enter into this dream-world in which no one works and everyone sits around brooding about love.
Set (presumably) in late 19th c Hungary - both Budapest and the countryside of northeastern Hungary (where the author grew up) - it describes this beautiful, timeless world of gypsies and young heiresses, wastrels and eccentrics.
Having said that, the introduction by John Lukacs was one of the best (most entertaining and illuminating) that I've ever read on any author, and certainly made me eager to explore more of Gyula Krudy's work.
rarer still, when i revisit the folded pages mere hours after completing the book and i do not recall which sentence or idea i was trying to save to remember!
in fact, every page is filled with so much detail that if opened at random, it could be any sentence greeting you with something you'd like to hold on to for later..
but even that i can forgive as the initial time spent on the characters was so filling..
You might like this book, though there is hardly any plot. You might love this book, because the writing is akin to a cross pollination of Walt Whitman's inclusivity and Joseph Conrad's over-use of the simile... a fermentation of Hungarian poetry that pours a rare and curious blend of whiskey over the rural grey contours of the mind. Somehow reminds me of a Dostoyevsky-esque side story in one of his great novels... the ambitious folly of the characters and their dazzling demises.
As a Minnesotan in January this passage brought a smile to my lips"The marshy groves, the reeds and snaking rills were all snowed under, disappearing for the duration of the season like enraptured women lying sequestered with pagan lovers."I don't think it gets this cold in Hungary, because pagan lovers do not occur to me when I look at the snowbanks. Or maybe the snowplows iron out the contours that would suggest them.
I am not sure where to begin to describe this book, I told a friend it was like entering the dreams and inner thoughts of the dozen or so people you meet in this book - but they also seem to unwilling share the secrets they keep from themselves, when we lie to ourselves, they cannot. It is so romantic, mystical and myth-like. Brilliant.
Macar edebiyatı sevgime ve Kitap Fuarı'ndaki stand görevlisinin tavsiyesine uyarak aldığım bir kitaptı. Bir daha kendim dışında kimsenin önerisine yüz vermeyeceğim. Diyalog azlığı, betimleme çokluğu, aşırı karakter tahlili, ne olduğunu anlamadığım olaylar ruhumu sıktı. Belki okumak için yanlış zamandı, belki tercüme yetersizdi bilemeyeceğim ama tavsiye isterseniz, "hayır" derim.
What a beaut!
Loved the mix of mythical and downright base - an immensely enjoyable read and prose to be savoured ... thank you Bettie...
Look what I got today from Carey!! Thank you dear!
This book has more similes than a Weezy freestyle
"One has to be very stupid to find life bearable."
"Sunflower is like a fairy tale, only more like a dream. Eveline, a ""country miss"" living in Budapest, has her house broken into by her former fianc
Spectacular blend of stream of consciousness and proto-magical realism. A true lost classic.
I enjoy well-written and frequent similes and metaphors, but they were laid on ridiculously thick here, even for me (and a good number felt quite forced and awkward), plus very little of the novel took place in scene, which slowed the pacing to quite a low gear.
The plot was also pretty thin and wandery, which I’m sure is intentional, but made it harder to stick with the novel.
I was charmed at first by the writing style and the initial promising set up, but by the end I had to force myself to read every page.
It took me a long time to get into the flow of his similes-on-similes-on-similes style, which is no doubt at least partly the fault of the translator trying to maintain sentence integrity at the expense of English convention; but while it's not exactly Major Literature in either the Naturalist or the Modernist canon (Krúdy is best known for his character Sindbad, a Hapsburg Arsène Lupin), it's a nostalgic reverie on such specific Hungarian countryside that by the end it was almost impossible not to get wrapped up in his densely referential maundering.
