https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/371464.Seize_the_Time

I would love to consume this book as an ebook narrated by Bobby Seale; I really feel this is how God intended it and would lend to the book greater cohesion and zeal.
One of the remarkable facets of Seale's book is his capacity to sublimate personal ego and to admit gaps in knowledge.
Bobby's book is a sergeant at arms story - a guy who wants to understand how all of this theory can actually have a practical impact and who rejects self-aggrandising stereotypes.
I wonder what a movement would be like if its leadership consisted of far more Bobbys and far less Eldridges.
this book is poorly written. bobby seale was trying to make huey p. newton into some kind of fantastic revolutionary hero, and the book gets silly at times. nevertheless, the history of the party is good, and the best sections deal with bobby's personal experiences of being harassed and imprisoned by the police "pigs." a feeling of claustrophobia and suffocation overtakes you when he describes being bound and gagged in the Chicago 8 courtroom.
while Armstrong said "one small step for man, one giant leap for mankind," the black panthers took this sentiment and build a revolution. if you are into the civil rights struggle, end of the vietnam war, or community organizing... this book is a must.
Alkupuoli on erittäin kiinnostavaa katutason kerrontaa siitä, miten ja miksi Mustien panttereiden puolue perustettiin ja minkälaista toiminta oli ja minkä takia. Puolueen perustajiin kuuluva Seale kertoo niistä mustan yhteisön oloista ja ongelmista, joihin marxisti-leninistinen radikaalivallankumouksellinen ryhmä nousi ratkaisuksi. Paljon ns. hyvää pohdintaa. Loppupuolella kerrataan vähän turhan tarkasti oikeudenkäyntiä, jonka seurauksena Seale tuomitaan vankilaan, ja kerronnan voima & vauhti vähän katoavat. Kuitenkin kokonaisuutena valaiseva kirja Yhdysvaltojen rasismista ja siitä, miten sitä on lähdetty haastamaan.
This is hands down the best history on the creation and evolution of the Black Panther Party that has been written. Anyone interested in a straight-forward history of the movement, this is the book to read.
This book changed my life and thoughts about politics. How? Because it details how evil and sadistic the government can be when it comes to people of color.
One of the best and most accessible books on the BPP written by one of the two founders.
Bobby tells us who is righteous and who is phony, who is jive and punk, how the "fascist, avaricious, demagogic ruling class and their low-life, sadistic pigs" trap Americans into cycles of oppression, and what the Black Panther Party did about it.
By linking the struggle of black Americans to anticolonial struggles in Africa, Asia, and Latin America, Huey's political ideology (inspired from the Revolutionary Action Movement who were inspired, in turn, by the black anti-colonialism of W.E.B. Du Bois, Paul Robeson, and Alphaeus Hunton), unifies "the brothers on the block" into a global struggle against the American empire.
We know that as a people, we must seize our time."-Bobby SealeMarch 5, 1970
Bobby Seale certainly seized the time to fight for his Constitutional rights, not just for him but for his community.
The Black Panther Party was the first group to really fight for modern day gun rights, particularly for African Americans in the era of Civil Rights.
The Black Panther Party, despite being fans of Marxism who wrongly attributed Capitalism to their suffering, must be admired for what they did, and for what they suffered from the government repression.
We must Seize the Time and fight for the Constitution, the Bill of Rights, and our human dignity.
Certainly a must-read. Written in '70, but from those experiences of only a few years the material is already rich with lessons positive [too numerous to repeat] and negative [like the need for a Communist Party to be -way- more ruthless in dealing with misogyny...] for the future.Highly recommend this audio version by a YouTuber, although the text can also be read in PDF form here.
I’ve been extremely interested in the Black Panther Party since I graduated from high school in 2013, but this book written by Bobby Seale has led me to fall in love all over again with the Black Panther Party. EVERYONE SHOULD READ THIS BOOK!
Excellent and Hollywood exploited the true value of this book and the Black Panther Party for SELF DEFENSE.
An unparalleled first person account of the rise of the Black Panther Party and their remarkable, almost unimaginable times.
This is one of the best books about socialism I've read, and it has the added bonus of being littered with late 60s/early 70s slang which begs to be read (inwardly of course) in a blaxploitation accent.
I find it ironic that Boddy Seale, the great follower of Fanon, would be espousing attitudes warped as far as I see it by his experience of being from a "colonised" people.
It's sad to read the enthusiasm and passion when you know what happens in the end, but it's still a great, and if you're a lefty, essential read.
Newton, wanted nothing more than freedom, justice, and peace not only for Black people but all of humanity.
This book is best read while simultaneously reading Huey's autobiography "Revolutionary Suicide" because doing so provides a holistic understanding of how and why the Black Panther Party for Self Defense came to be and what it stood for.
Otherwise, the book is a must read in general for anyone who wants to know what the Panthers were about and learning about what it takes to fight for real social change and justice.
I am very interested in the history of the Black Panther Party.
He clarifies the party's position and philosophy on the subject of race.
He denounces that the party is a race focus party and emphasizes the party's position in promoting the class struggle.
The next book I am going to read on the subject of the Black Panther Party, is "Assata an autobiography".
It should be interesting to see the party from a woman's perspective.
Please contact me if there are any other books i should read on the subject?
All the guns they carried were legal and Huey Newton knew how to use the second amendment.
"Huey put his hand around his M-1 rifle and continued, 'We have a constitutional right to carry the guns....Huey knows his law so well he wouldn't have his M-1 loaded in his car.
You have a right to observe an officer carrying out his duty as long as you stand a reasonable distance away.....the pig was mad, 'you're just turning the constitution around.Are you a Marxist?
Are you a fascist!......Huey says' Ain't you ever heard of the 14th amendment of the Constitution of the United States?
I remember this as an electrifying read at the time as a high school student.
I remember nothing about what was written about Huey Newton here, only the story of Bobby Seale, which is a cultural document in and of itself.
His inclusion in the Chicago 8 was weird-he simply didn't belong there, even considering how contrived and fantastical the case against these activists was and so his being bound and gagged by judge Julius Hoffman in that courtroom in Chicago made the whole thing beyond surreal.
An important work to learn from. Written by Bobby Seale while a political prisoner in 1970. One thing documented here is how the Black Panther Party was taken down by the government mainly by going after its leadership. And yes, leadership is a thing, it exists, especially today when you hear people spouting the "no leaders" bullshit that just means they want to be leaders but not have any accountability to the people. From the dedication by Bobby Seale:"Huey P. Newton, Minister of Defense of the Black Panther Party, the baddest motherfucker to ever set foot in history."
im still reading this book, but it has giving me facts where vague iconic images once lied. reading this book further solidifies what the panthers started out as and operated from. they werent scary dudes with guns, they were young motivated gifted and intelligent Constitutionalists...im still learning,im still reading...
"So all the brothers had that stuff down. They all had their guns pointed straight up in the air as they carried them. We were walking up the sidewalk. I remember a brother in the background saying, 'Look at Reagan run.'" Thank you Bobby Seale.
Although I do not agree with the Socialist ideas in the book, it was a very influential read for me. I read it when I was 18 years old and it gave me an insight into a very different and troubling world, that is the real America - land of the oppressed, home of the slave.
Bro. Seale really takes us into the conversation and movement of the Black Panther Party. I felt like I was sitting around at a family gathering listening to a relative tell stories of his "glory days." Captivating.
Changed my life
AMAZING!!! Incredibly inspiring. Every hopeful revolutionary should read this book. Also, take notes.
This book was my formal introduction to the Black Panther Party. Whatever issues of style or content there may have been, the frantic, passionate energy of its time and its writer were not lost.
Could definitely have used better editing because it could be so repetitive.
I read this after I saw Bobby Seale speak in Ashland.
read this when i was fifteen-it just blew me awaythe first page stays with me constantlymade me hungry to read-anything-just opened my world and got me right into the whole civil rights.
