https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30317485-the-snows-of-kilimanjaro
With enough material to fill an entire book, Hemingway moves from Harry's past to present interspersed with his significant other's reminiscing as he leaves his readers hanging for the duration of this short tale.
Hemingway leaves the reader to imagine what will happen to his significant other moving forward.At the story's onset, Hemingway, or perhaps an editor, notes that Kilimanjaro is the highest peak in Africa.
Like Harry, perhaps the leopard was near death or had come to Kilimanjaro to reflect on his life flashing before his eyes.
A short story about regret from a dying man set in Africa.
He remembers what fun Paris was, all the friends he had, but he’s aware that his current wife, through no fault of her own, will be his last companion, the “hostess”.A lot of people seem to think this is autobiographical, and to a point, it is.
Consider the irony of this being first published in a men’s magazine whose target market was most decidedly not the poor!
Cautioning himself or not, Hemingway did acquire more women and maintain a colourful lifestyle.The fact that Harry’s stranded in remote Africa with his wife means he knows he hasn’t got long to live.
Harry, why do you have to turn into a devil now?’'I don't like to leave anything,’ the man said.
He had been in it and he had watched it and it was his duty to write of it; but now he never would."Hemingway’s ability to write of places, be it Africa, Paris, a ranch, the Black Forest of Germany or anywhere else, is perfected in this story.
Is it silly that I feel profound sorrow for the stories and lines that may never come to be?One more thing--the ending is perfect.
I had already heard about The Snow…, but as surprising as it may seem, I had no idea of the content of this short story; which is very annoying, because as the story, the time, the characters and the subject of this story are revealed few pages after the beginning, we don’t know who the characters are, or when the story happens.
In my humble opinion, before reading a book, you don’t have to know the author, the story he tells, the dates, places, why and how.
And in this short story, if we do not know anything about all this before opening the book, we are very annoyed!
The short story somehow feels diminished compared with the movie version...I can't say exactly why...I think the movie had more substance...I would recommend Hemingway as a sparse model for how to live as a writer and how to do the work.
Yes, I think that this story serves as a moving account of a man who comes to terms with his life as he prepares to die.
However, while I hate to sound as repetitive in my reviews of Hemingway as Hemingway sounds in his actual writing, I cannot stand how his protagonists always take out their frustrations on women.
As the main character suffers, he calls his partner a "rich bitch" and a "caretaker and destroyer of his talent." I rate Hemingway's work so low because from my perspective, I must point out how he lets his characters get away with sexism and misogyny, even if they do indeed face painful circumstances.
I wish Hemingway had understood that in his life and in his writing.
Concerning the structure of the story, Hemingway uses six sections, each of these sections inserts a flashback that appears in italic, continually juxtaposing the hopeless, harrowing present with the past, which often seemed full of promise.
The flashbacks themselves center around concerns about the erosion of values: lost love, loose sex, drinking, revenge, and war.Both Harry and Hemingway were of a Lost Generation during World War I and had to rebuild their lives after being wounded in combat and seeing the horrors of war.
The Last Thoughts of a Dying Man30 August 2016 - Paris Well, there I was, sitting on a train on the Paris Metro heading towards the first of the cafes (I would call them pubs, but they are not strictly pubs in the Anglo sense of the word) were Ernest Hemmingway would spend his time getting drunk with his literary mates. At the time, I was reading Satre's Men Without Shadows but a part of me felt that if I was going to have a drink at the six cafes that Hemmingway frequented then maybe Hemmingway
At the first one I ordered a beer but then I realised that I was supposed to be doing an Ernest Hemmingway so when I went to the Cafe de Flore and the Brasserie Lipp I decided that I would go for some wine (red of course since I am not a big fan of white wine).
In a way it is probably why people like Hemmingway didn't return to the United States because for him, and for the other American veterans of the the First World War) the actual fighting was so far away from home, and when one returns home one literally returns to what is in effect a foreign land.
The Snows of Kilimanjaro is my first short story read of Hemingway.
The story is about a writer who revisits his past on the verge of death.
The story, however is a little depressing; and my emotions kept on rolling between anger and pity to the main character, Harry - the writer.
All in all he was not a likable character.
However, one cannot resist Hemingway's beautiful and intense writing even if you not like the story.
The beauty, intensity and simplicity of expression and deliverance, I believe, is the secret of his success as a writer.
It's basically a telling montage with one irritating run on sentence after another, and it's not even interesting or insightful.
There are no surprises here, except how much I hate this short story and wish I hadn't wasted my time finishing it.
Also, I'm actually feeling sad that people from this time period apparently didn't have anything better to read than this, if it's considered a classic and some of his best work.
I wish I could make a quantum leap back through time to carry the people something insightful, forwarding thinking, emotionally resonant, and unique.
This story will be better if you know nothing about it to begin with.Isn't that always the way with short stories?It brilliantly sets the scene, and introduces the main character, and is rich in detail considering it's only 15 pages long.Harry is kind of a jerk, though, I'm just saying.It muses over memories of different times and places, and evokes images well with a few choice words and phrases.
Some of it flew over my head a little, but I like to read fast; this is one to take your time with, nibble each sentence before digesting and moving on.
Thank God this was only about 30 pages.
It was not her fault that when he went to her he was already over. How could a woman know that you meant nothing that you said; that you spoke only from habit and to be comfortable?... He had his life and it was over and then he went on living it again with different people and more money, with the best of the same places, and some new ones.
Just not much of a Hemingway fan.But I did like this better than I liked The Old Man and the Sea.
I must admit it is a bit dark and gloomy, yet I could see the point of it all. The accounts of war have been quite realistic and moving.I also liked the metaphorical ending of it.
how did someone so boring make it into the literary canon? we will never know i guess
What a powerful story about death and the life decisions that take us to the place we lie in.
Interesting story about a man who is about to die due to an accident. He looks back on his life and all the things he could/should have written but didn't.
2.5/ me gustó el juego con los narradores y también en cómo estaba escrito. Aún así no me conveció mucho. Espero volver a él en el futuro para tal vez fijarme más en algunos detalles y llevar la lectura con más tranquilidad...
Why is this one of the best works by Hemingway??
This was a very uncomfortable read it shows us how when face with death the nicest we put on can be ripe away and the true person underneath shows its true side.
4.5 ❤Y pensar que le tenia cierto hastío a Hemingway por mi profesora de literatura de la primaria. Estaba totalmente equivocada.
I’m in no way a serious writer, just your typical one-time angsty teenager who took some writing classes and never dropped the notion that maybe I have something to say that matters, and yet I can relate to Harry’s anxiety and pain over all the things he once wanted to write about that he never got around to and never will.
In Harry’s moments of reflection, this story is really quite beautiful.
And Harry is a jerk.
He’s an angry, bitter, mean, negative jerk.
But, in yourself, you said that you would write about these people; about the very rich; that you were really not one of them but a spy in their country; that you would leave it and write of it and for once it would be written by some one who knew what he was writing of."Even though "The Snows of Kilimanjaro" looks mainly like a misogynistic short story at first, I think it is very interesting and even genius indeed.
In this short story, one of the best things is the profundity of the characters (as well as how much fucked up they are, overall the protagonist) and that is something that should be regarded, at least in my opinion.
Five years after his death, his last wife Mary announced that he had indeed killed himself.In the decades since Hemingway’s death, views on him seem to have changed.
But some critics focus on what they consider to be his homophobia, anti-semitism, and in general his attraction to the rough side of human nature, perhaps a reflection of his own approach to life.
A quote from Hemingway’s “A Farewell To Arms” captures for me what seems to be his view of the rather one-sided harshness and cruelty of life: “The world breaks everyone and afterward many are strong in the broken places.
All fun and games until someone loses their edge.We don’t know if Hemingway still then felt and feared the hyenas stalking the periphery of his conscience, but it’s hard to ignore Harry being imitated by his author:Africa was where he had been happiest in the good time of his life, so he had come out here to start again.
'For Christ's sake, you got a terminal infection from traveling in Africa while trying to reboot your life, give yourself a break Harry!' But it's precisely this break that ignites the gangrene; its inability to be healed (even with second tries) reflects Hemingway's fundamental pessimism.
I do appreciate the story Hemingway wanted to tell, about the men who lived through one of the worst wars, but died on the inside, and had to go on living like that.
I think that the way it's written makes the character inaccessible to the reader, and if you can't feel empathy for the character, then the story fails to convey any meaning.
I had to research to figure out what he wanted to say, because the story as he wrote it failed to do so.

This short story is set in Africa and focuses on a man named Harry and his significant other.
During the journey, Harry sustains an injury to his leg, and, given their location in Africa, medical help is not immediately available.
He is deeply regretful for never writing down many of the stories from his past, and he worries that the time to do so might be up.
This was my first time reading Ernest Hemingway's work, and I am thoroughly impressed.
The short story was very intriguing, and I will likely read more of Hemingway's works in the future.
