https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80055.The_Company_She_Keeps
She knew that from the beginning.Still, she valued my attention, before I grew manic.There were many women who wanted to be in my Grand Design, and ultimately two fitted into it for a time.Mary liked the fact that others craved what she declined.The funny thing is that, a few years later, when I had been engaged to Diane for three months and was only six weeks away from our wedding day, Mary and I stumbled across each other at an Art Conference in Boston.We both spoke, although I hadn't read the Agenda closely enough to see who else was attending.
A young woman gets divorced and decides to live life as a Bohemian in New York in the 1930s.
If only the book were as good as that synopsis sounds.
The novel is split into six vignettes telling the story of our heroine through the men she meets.
I thought this would be up my alley but I found it to be quite boring really.
And I liked how it gave us a glimpse into life in New York in the 30s which is never a bad thing.
It's a gallant first novel though and I applaud it for that.
Mary McCarthy is my 1930s soul sister. She was a hussy of incomparable wit with a somewhat tragic past (orphaned by the Spanish flu pandemic, sent to live with a sadistic aunt). All the reviews of this book mention it as her  succès de scandale  because of her habits in the bedroom, but if published today I'd imagine her Trotskyism would garner more attention. At any rate, it's not her objectionable behavior that makes the stories good, but instead her clever characters. My favorite story was pr
At any rate, it's not her objectionable behavior that makes the stories good, but instead her clever characters.
And at the risk of sounding bitter, I loved her cynical sketches of men in relationships, particularly in "The Man in the Brooks Brothers Shirt" (cross-country train affair!) and "Portrait of the Intellectual as a Yale Man" (oh snap!
this story is such a good burn!).
At this point I've already got her best known work, The Group, her "intellectually rigorous" correspondence with Hannah Arendt, and one of her biographies queued up at the library.
Trotsky, sex and Freud in the 30s; a time when Americans were allowed to call themselves socialists. Margaret was great and, like Gloria in "BUtterfield 8", not afraid of looking at herself in the mirror. The men were all a bit pathetic and believable"Sentences were short, and points in the argument clicked like bright billiard balls."
Since I moved to a big city when I was 18, and had to start dealing with scads of people running into me, bumping into me, forcing their lives into my sphere of awareness, I've decided that a particular kind of friend is necessary--the friend with whom you can be your most wicked, outrageous, mean, scandalous, ill-spirited self.
But every once in a while, it is nice to grab a drink (or several) and let your darkest, meanest impulses run free.I think Mary McCarthy is the literary equivalent of this friend, and The Company She Keeps is the book version of going out for drinks with her.
Una raccolta di racconti che in realtà è un romanzo, che in realtà è una specie di autobiografia, che in realtà è quasi un saggio sociologico sull'America degli anni '30: arguto (e compiaciuto), spietato (la protagonista non fa sconti a nessuno ma alla fine i colpi più forti li rivolge contro di sé, in particolare nella seduta psicoanalitica finale), spassoso. Esordio impressionante: l'autrice all'epoca aveva a malapena trent'anni eppure pare scritto da una che la vita la conosceva eccome.
margaret sargent appartiene a una delle tipologie di donna che trovo più intristenti.
nello stesso tempo però eccole inciampare in situazioni che tradiscono la loro vanità, l'insicurezza, le piccole meschinità che spuntano come la smagliatura di una calza mentre credono di accavallare le gambe con disinvoltura.mccarthy non fa nulla per smussare gli aspetti imbarazzanti della protagonista di questi racconti (o romanzo a episodi che sia), che viene stigmatizzata come ogni singola comparsa dall'inizio alla fine.
così dedita a recitare il copione della donna disinibita e intelligente, da sembrare tristemente prigioniera del suo ruolo.
The Company She Keeps is the life of Margaret Sargeant told in short stories.
Margaret, a cosmopolitan intellectual, lived a modern life in the 1930s as a single career woman with many interests, experiences, and lovers.
I was struck most by the vibrant intellectual (read Marxist) world portrayed in the novel.
McCarthy has a distinctive voice that feels modern even today.
This, McCarthy's first novel was controversial at its publication for its frank and open discussion of sex.
Margaret lived a fast life, twice married, and by the last story, she is marginalized as a childless, depressed woman.
A witty portrait of the artist as a bohemian intellectual woman, as well as a cautionary tale about the perils of singledom. This is the first novel that Mary McCarthy wrote after her hubby, the critic Edmund Wilson, encouraged her to try her hand at fiction. Considering that it was published in 1942 and set during the Depression Era, it's oddly resonant today, with its talk of how outdated modes of capitalism are just not working. Given its progressive politics, it's ironic that the novel was also an inspiration for the very consumerist Sex and the City.
My edition is actually a mid-50s Dell plucked from a dumpster which fell apart just slightly faster than I could read it, which always adds a certain piquancy to the experience.McCarthy wrote two dozen works of fiction and non-fiction over 50 years.
The rather autobiographical Margaret Sargeant is at the center of them all but her husbands and lovers come and go, and there are no particular segues from one to the next - a few months or years can go by.The themes that she treats, somewhat satirically, include the American Communists of the 1930s (mainly in order to be contrarian, Sargeant professes to be a devout Trotskyite) and psychoanalysis on the Upper East Side.
More a writer to read for the racy gossipy bits, or as a kind of style guide to being a young woman in a big city, than a real, serious writer.
This is perhaps because up until recently, all that I'd read of her had been The Group, back in junior high.
Anyway, I think that at least one story in this book is very powerful and almost painfully intelligent and an overall real work of art: "Ghostly Father, I Confess." If you only read one story in this book, as they say, read this one.
If you like clever conversation, thoroughly laced with the left-wing politics of the late 30s, this is the book for you.
It’s a series of interconnected short stories, set at various points in the life of Margaret Sargent.
At the same time, McCarthy only occasionally over-writes.
The point of view shifts, and often we see her through the eyes of her lovers, or in glancing and circumstantial ways.
Everyone in this book is subject to the same detailed, scrupulous understanding, and it’s always interesting.
In some of the stories, the intellectual climate of the times pays as vivid a part as any other character.
Sometimes I had to remind myself that McCarthy had conjured these people out of thin air, because they seemed like they could have - and probably were - based on living, breathing people.Take, for instance, her story about Jim, the reporter for a well-known liberal magazine, who has an affair with Margaret Sanger, the main character of the novel.
And therein lies the brilliance of the character.No one is spared in this book, not even Margaret Sanger, who has her share of moments of cruelty and emotional myopia mingled with courage and intellectual ferocity.
Despite a central protagonist with the same name and biography in each tale, the stories don't read as one continuous tale - in fact they're best sampled, I think, as six distinct vignettes with a few curious overlaps, rather than as a narrative that's meant to flow together.'Cruel and Barbarous Treatment' and 'Rogue's Gallery' - the first two stories in the collection - are the weakest, but witty and clever even as they lack depth.
I could rave about this short story for hours - suffice to say the whole book is worth reading for this last installment (and the one before is quite brilliant also).
The book is made up of six loosely connected stories, all about a young woman (I'm guessing based on the author) and her life in New York in the 1930s, working for a left-wing newpaper and dating and marrying various men.
The stories are told from several different viewpoints, and it took me a while to work out that "Margaret" features in each of them.
The first story, about a woman who has an affair with a younger man and decides to tell her husband, is rather brilliant, but the others were a bit tedious, especially the one that is Margaret's long internal monologue while seeing her therapist.
My first Mary McCarthy, and I'm already influenced enough by it to want to write something similar set in Bombay.
It's really an episodic novel about the life of one writer, Margaret Sargent, as she shuttles between lovers and uncomfortable situations.
However, each chapter can also be read as a stand-alone short story, and that's what I loved about it.
She also uses a variety of voices and perspectives throughtout the book, which is helpful, because it keeps the reader alert.
In the chapters where we hear directly from the protagonist, there's a sense of urgency and immediacy that is missing from the 'Voice of God' narrations
some of the stories are MUCH better than others, hence the rating, but wow. what an amazing debut. her writing is incredible. i find it strange that she hated salinger so because his writing provoked basically the same feelings from me. i suppose there are differences in style but salinger and mccarthy are both incredibly observant, insightful and above all things, narcissistic.
lukewarm feelings about the collection over all, but worthwhile for the parts that stung. what parts stung—STUNG. i wish i hadn't accidentally left the copy with my marked quotations in the beach house i was staying in.
More a set of satisfying and perceptive character studies than a novel per se. But once beyond the initial preponderance for Capital Letters, McCarthy has a keen eye for the right metaphor and an incisive insider knowledge of interwar intellectual liberalism.
Capisco ora da dove abbiano copiato, attingendo a piene mani, tanti scribacchini americani e nostrani.
The frank thoughts about sex, divorce, affairs, aging, personal conflicts took some time to resonate within my psyche.By far my favorite is the first story, 'Cruel and Barbarous Treatment', in which we are introduced to a married Margaret who is having an affair with a Young Man. Her narcissistic belief in what she's doing was intriguing and as she and her husband separated, the realization that her husband was 'getting a slight edge in popularity over the Young Man', she realized she had to proceed with the divorce and head to Reno.
A collection of stories that add up, more or less, to a novel.
McCarthy's writing isn't flowery and her prose isn't beautiful in a demonstrative way.
Her writing is a commentary on gender that is so solid it would require legions to lift her up and shove her out of the way.
He anoints himself the hero of her story, even as he diminishes her bravery in standing up for her beliefs."...martyrs are usually unappetizing personally; that is why people treat them so badly; for every noble public man, like Trotsky, you must expect a thousand miserable little followers, but there is really more honor in defending them than in defending the great man, who can speak for himself."
having said that it provided a fascinating contemporary view of the mid-century period I love so much: the final chapter was almost like reading what is going through Donald Draper's wife's mind when she is sent for psychiatric counselling.
also interesting to read about american being socialist and communist before (the other) McCarthy ie quite openly, and with a great deal of intellectually sincere intentions, and to compare them with Doris Lessing's depiction of British Communists (of the same period?) in Golden Notebook.
Mary McCarthy observes life with a paradoxically cool eye and heartfelt connection.
She is ahead of her time and yet reflects perfectly the time and place from whence she writes - Bohemian New York of the intelligentsia during the 1930s and 40s.
Margaret Sheridan's life is related through a series of liason's with various men who misuse and disappoint her.
It also takes us to a place of understanding, rather than judgement and this is, I think, the most striking aspect of 'The Company She Keeps'.
Enjoyed isn’t quite the right word, or even liked, I think it is more that I am glad I have read it.The book is about Margaret Sergent & is told through various incidents that happed in her life.
You know from the start of the book that she is troubled and has remained so most of her life.
Margaret is a fast paced young lady ahead of the time she lives (c1940’s I think)I do like books like this, but it is the part of me that likes fills with bad endings.
It isn’t very cheerful and you feel pretty sad for the lead by the end of the book.
This was a very interesting book, and one I'll definitely have to read again.
It took a good two months, because of school, so I'd like to read it in a week or so, without all the breaks.
It seemed a little disconnected at times, but overall I think it works all right.I didn't like the last chapter that much - a psychoanalytical look at Margaret Sargent's life, with a lot of obvious connections to Mary McCarthy's own childhood that hadn't been so apparent throughout the rest of the book.
Or to be more specific:"Cruel and Barbarous Treatment" -- 5 stars, particularly if read on a plane headed west"Rogue's Gallery" -- 3 stars"The Genial Host" -- 3.5 stars"Portrait of the Intellectual As a Yale Man" -- 4 stars"Ghostly Father, I Confess" -- 2 stars"The Man in the Brooks Brothers Shirt" -- if you read the whole thing sitting in a booth alone in a diner in L.A., looking up from your book every so often to eye strangers like you are a person with a secret, 6 stars
An extraordinary read. Each page is full of beauty, wit, and dispair-i couldn't help but be moved by each story. It gives a glimps into the life of the author, and into the mind of a poet. Every sentance written speaks from the heart and you feel yourself changing gradually as you journey along with the character and the relationships she experiences. Mostly, this novel is addictive. It seduces you to read more at every turn. And though The Group might be her most acclaimed piece, this novel altered the way i think and experience reading.
I had only been familiar with McCarthy’s literary criticisms; but this novel was assigned and never covered in an undergraduate lit class (early 1970s). I finally got around to reading it. It’s well-written, with compelling characterizations (I would expect no less) but it reads more like a cobbled collection of magazine vignettes (not much plot, and only a loose narrative tie through the protagonist). It does provide an interesting insight into the golden age of American radicalism and 1930’s Bohemian culture.
Ambientato nell’ America degli anni Yrenta, ha la capacità di raccontare episodi che potrebbero essere ambientati anche in epoca più moderna, tale è il carattere e la spregiudicatezza con la quale viene descritta la protagonista: una giovane, disinibita e provocatoria ragazza.Continua a leggere su http://www.leggereacolori.com/letti-e...
