https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/328186.The_Tiger_in_the_House
CVVs history of manners & habits of cats is,frankly, too recondite -- espec if, like me, your pets are limited to 2 feet.Chapts deal w the cat in music, law, theatre, poetry,folklore, fiction, the occult.
"The cat lives alone, hasno need of society," notes CVV, "does not obey, exceptwhat he likes.
"Catsare sensitive, self-reliant, nervous, curious, have longmemories." Yes. Like writers.Man can be master of a dog, he adds, but never a cat.
Though he may live among"fragipani he will still love the smell of carrion."CVV refs Cagliostro, Grandville, Poe, Octave Mirbeau.
He painted a white cat on cushions that reminded CVV of Tallulah Bankhead.
I didn't finish this book. It was too rambling, I guess. And Van Vechten too effete. There are long passages in French, presented without translation. I don't read French. There were a lot of words I'd never seen before and, when I'd look them up (in the O.E.D!!) they didn't exist. I think he just made shit up. And that may be true with some of the amazing cat stories he tells too. So, it was interesting. I'd like to finish it at some point, but it just wasn't any fun to read any longer.
Yes, I have a love affair with cats--all cats--and this book just feeds my adoration.
Horribly outdated and really just a list of quotes and anecdotes, half of which are in French. I enjoyed a few sections, but in reality, this book is an example of an excellent concept executed very poorly. Too bad. Perhaps I should write a similar book.
Due October 8, 2016
es solo que la perspectiva de lo que nos presenta es a veces difícil de digerir por el tiempo que ha transcurrido desde su edición original, en el año de 1920.
Si conseguimos dejar eso de lado, lo que queda es un libro mucho muy interesante para los aficionados a los gatos.
Todo salpicado con algunas anécdotas muy sabrosas tanto de los mismos gatos del autor como de los de otras figuras célebres del mundo de las artes y de la sociedad de su tiempo.
I really wanted to like it. But. It was too glorious and the sumptuous baroque prose was too much for me. So were all the long excerpts and quotes in French that I couldn't understand. Every page was not an inexhaustible pleasure, it was simply exhausting. I found my eyes were moving but I wasn't getting anywhere although I did arrive at page 53 before I finally gave up.
Erudite, funny, might seem a bit dated. I enjoyed it!
There are lots of references to things that the author expects the reader to know--things like "...and I don't need to share with you the story of ____..." The first chapter, and a later chapter on poetry, has huge chunks of quotes that are in French--again, I would guess the author is writing for an audience that he assumes knows French.Many of the sweeping statements he makes about the personality of cats, or the "science" of cats, are also very obviously a product of the time or driven by the existing Zeitgeist of the time, etc.Overall I think this book would be most useful to someone today who was trying to research cats in culture.
This had been recommended in Anne Fadiman's Ex Libris: Confessions of a Common Reader, and I love cats, so I borrowed it through my local library. Sadly, it was not at all what I expected. The writing was tedious, and about half the quotations and references were in French, shich I do not read fluently enough to be able to deal with without a phrasebook. Fortunately, my roommate reads French better than I do, so I was able to get at least the gist of things.However, I cannot recommend this book...not even to cat lovers.
This is an old fashioned book filled with lots of old fashioned facts about cats by nearly forgetten 19th century and early 20th century authors. You will either like it or hate it depending on your taste for obscurity. I imagine in its day the book was quite current but times change and memories are short. You will need to consult your cell phone dictionary as well as the author loves obscure words.
Not really sure how I feel about this one. It was pretty amusing at times, but there was a LOT in french which I was unable to read. And there was one strange out of place racist sentence that was weird. And after some of the assertions that I found dubious, I was left wondering just how much of the book was believable.
Not for me.
http://catalog.hathitrust.org/Record/...
