https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/769712.Palestine
He goes into the field, interviews people, takes risks, writes down what he hears, draws what he sees, and ultimately delivers this illustrated journal of his observations in Palestine.Much like Noam Chomsky, Sacco puts the spotlight on the Palestinian perspective that usually remains hidden in our commercialized media environment.
Unlike Chomsky, however, he is more interested in the personal experiences of the people he interviews than in the global political context of their situation - an approach that comes with major blind spots (the crucial and highly problematic role of the U.S. in the conflict is largely ignored, for example) but nevertheless manages to add another dimension to our understanding of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
In an interview with Al Jazeera, Joe Sacco said:"I grew up thinking of Palestinians as terrorists, and it took a lot of time, and reading the right things, to understand the power dynamic in the Middle East was not what I had thought it was...
*sigh* That's like believing under-paid workers in third world sweat shops are doing all right "because at least now, they have a job and are making SOME kind of money rather than none at all." (If you currently believe that bullshit, please read "No Logo" by Naomi Klein so that you get an opposing viewpoint and can subsequently make a more well-rounded and informed opinion.)5) In another couple of powerful panels, Joe Sacco remarks to himself in wonder that he doesn't even know what it would be like to WANT to have the kind of faith that would compel young women to want to cover their heads all the time.
I feel like I should say something intelligent about the art, since this is after all a graphic novel, but I'm still finding my sea legs, as it were, on the books with pix.
That said, though, there's practically just as much text as pictures, and at times I wondered why he chose to tell this story as a graphic novel, rather than just straight prose.
She would say, "The Gazans have no electricity because they dig up the pipes to use as weapons against the Israelis." And I would say, "Well, according to this book, the Gazans have no electricity because the Israelis cut it off all the time, at random, just to keep them unstable." And she would say, "Why do the Palestinians keep asking Israel to give them jobs?
What *about* the Palestinians?Even in Israel, the reporting is very one-sided, as evidenced by Sacco's reprinting of a news article that puts the blame for a particular episode of violence square on the Palestinians.
And it's depressing that the Israelis and the Palestinians he interviews all seem to agree that peace is never going to come to the Holy Land, not while both Israelis and Palestinians exist.
Highly recommend this to everyone who is interested in seeing another side of the conflict in Israel, a conflict that is still going on, more than twenty years after Sacco visited the area.
They destroyed everything. There is no sign that we ever lived there. This was good. Interesting use of "graphic journalism". A little bit of preaching to the choir in my case as I'm already pretty sympathetic to the Palestinians and aware of the abhorrent treatment they have received in the last several decades, but a must-read for the Americans and Europeans who only get the pro-Israeli stance on the issue. For a graphic novel, it's quite word-heavy, with a lot of pages filled up with text in
They destroyed everything. There is no sign that we ever lived there.
This was good. Interesting use of "graphic journalism". A little bit of preaching to the choir in my case as I'm already pretty sympathetic to the Palestinians and aware of the abhorrent treatment they have received in the last several decades, but a must-read for the Americans and Europeans who only get the pro-Israeli stance on the issue. For a graphic novel, it's quite word-heavy, with a lot of pages filled up with text in the margins.Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube
After falling out of regular journalism, Sacco became a cartoonist, and it is this medium through which he represents his wanderings in the occupied territories during two and half months in the winter of 1991-1992.Each chapter, which represents the original series of nine comic books, contains a number of "episodes" or vignettes, detailing the stories that Sacco hears through his interviews with various Palestinians, and the experiences he has in the refugee camps.
The drawings - what Sacco calls "comics journalism" - provide a relatively easy avenue by which to access and develop an understanding of the Palestinians' concerns.
Un reportaje periodístico totalmente subjetivo, cargado de un sarcasmo brutal que llega a resultar incómodo. Sacco busca respuestas para el conflicto israelí-palestino centrándose en la tragedia de los refugiados y la penosa vida que llevan, habla de vejaciones, injusticias, tortura y muerte. Cuenta lo que vio y recoge testimonios de primera mano.Es una novela gráfica impresionante, tan solo echo en falta el punto de vista de los israelíes.
Una polverieraSiamo abbastanza abituati ad associare la questione palestinese all'immagine di qualcuno che si fa esplodere in un autobus o in un mercato in mezzo a tranquilli e ignari israeliani.Purtroppo le cose non sono così semplici e definite.E' mia ignoranza oppure i media ci trasmettono una informazione parziale?Joe Sacco cercò di approfondire la situazione andando nei territori occupati verso la fine del 1991, intervistando persone e vivendo nei campi profughi al termine della prima Intifada (la rivolta araba contro la presenza israeliana in Palestina).Sacco descrive i Palestinesi per quello che sono, senza nascondere nulla, imperfetti (come tutti) e tendenzialmente aggressivi.
it's a warts-and-all first person account of people's lives in palestine, and almost all embellishments and social commentaries come from the mouths of the people he talks to, rather than from things he learned reading edward said or whatever.at the same time, he allows his own story to weave throughout.
the account is never neutral, but he never soapboxes either.best of all, it's FANTASTICALLY illustrated - a direct descendant of the drawings of social critique from the 30's and 40's (grosz, dix, shahn, etc.).
note the care with which each human expression is given, or the way he takes the time to render each and every mud track along his path.
For the love of God everyone needs to read this book. Americans are so ignorant when it comes to the struggles of the Isralies and Palestinians. THis is something we need to know about and Sacco presents it in a real person to person manner that will leave shocked and horrified, as you should be. If more people read this book the world would be a better place, because people would have to stand up and fight!
It's rough stuff, and the very few bright spots, like a curious child asking about America or a translator's efforts to help disabled kids, just make it worse by contrast.Sacco intentionally does not tell the story of the Israelis, because, as he says, that's the side we usually get in the West.
All I really knew about the conflict when I started reading was that both sides seemed culpable, so I found this approach a little frustrating, because now, of course, I feel like the Palestinians are the most shat upon people on Earth, forced from their homeland by powerful Europeans, and living under Orwellian conditions forced upon them by powerful Israelis and their oil-hungry American financiers.
- art work was not my kind of art.- important non fiction read- author does give his own opinions (eg: about wearing hijab) but he also mentions views of those supporting and opposing his views.- even though this is a graphic novel (non fiction), it does not undermine the tragedies happening in Palestine. Every page is a shocking read.
The main focal point of the book was showing the occupied land's people point of view of the story, because in the west this other side of the story is pretty much invisible.
It pretty much conveyed other people's testimonies, whether they were Palestinian (which they were in the largest part of this book) or Israelis.
Some lost their kids, some brothers, some their legs and others their eye.
Kids forced to lose their innocence.
He also pointed out how he had problems with religions in the book.
Superb book by Joe Sacco, regarding his journalistic cartooning and narration on the stories that are located in Palestine.
Due to the fact that Israel has close ties to the American culture and the feverish defense and anger towards that country.
In fact, it is terrible.
What makes the stories so strong is not only the tales of the Palestinians, but Sacco's skills as a journalist.
He reports without anger or making judgements on the people he's interviewing.
Also his skills as an illustrator are quite remarkable.
The Arab side of the story is fully ignored by the Western media since, well, the beginning of the conflict.The treatment inflicted upon the Arab refugees is horrendous, but the Western media is never going to acknowledge it.
The soldiers can hold you up for 6 months.
And that term could be extended again for 6 months.
The uncaring attitude of the soldiers towards the dying reminds you of the SS and SD.
This is a very important piece of journalism which is not to be missed especially if you are a neutral like me who has no connection whatsoever with either side in the Palestine-Israel conflict.
Sacco is really raising the bar for any other so-called: Comics!This is a real Master Piece!!
With the eyes of a foreigner, Sacco illustrated what he saw in Occupied Palestine.
His illustrations spoke a thousand words besides his commentary on the plot.
It was so real that I felt when I'll raise my head from the book I'll find those characters moving in front of me!He addressed lots of issues, the occupation history, people traditions, food, refugees & their daily sufferings, peace & medical organizations trying to help in vain, charity centers, even women's hijab attracted the catchy eyes of Sacco with its religious & traditional basis.I was even more fascinated by his sarcastic notes that came while describing very gloomy situations ..
Εξαιρετικό,δυνατό,αληθινό!Δεν μοιάζει με κανένα GN που κυκλοφορεί εκεί έξω..ίσως 2ο καλύτερο από το "Χαιρετίσματα από τη Σερβία".Ο Joe Sacco μας γνωρίζει την Παλαιστίνη έτσι όπως δεν θα το κάνει κανένα ειδησεογραφικό κανάλι..Οι ασπρόμαυρες εικόνες του επιτείνουν την τραγικότητα που βιώνουν όχι μόνο οι άνθρωποι στην περιοχή,αλλά και ευρύτερα η Ανθρωπότητα όταν πέφτει θύμα πολιτικών αποφάσεων.Δεν διαβάζεται ευχάριστα,ίσα-ίσα προβληματίζει!
it's so sad that 20 years after this book was written, the circumstances are still the same.
This is very hard book for me to review. The subjects matter is heart-breaking and I don’t have words to describe the atrocious politics of Israel government. Their inhuman actions and how little international community care about Palestine.Palestine is non-fiction graphic novel based on journalist-comic artist Joe Sacco’s two months in Israel, Palestine and The Gaza Strip. The events of the book takes place in 1990s. It’s been two decades since then, things only got worse.I wasn’t the fan of the art style, but the visuals served its purpose make emotional impact on the reader.
this hurt my heart. not enough people are aware of Palestine’s situation.
We as humans are so "adaptable" to what is "normal" (by no means do I suggest that I know what this is like to live through but even as the reader you are given a taste of what it is you become accustomed to experiencing and forget that there are other ways of seeing and being)and this book in its presentation duplicates that experience.
You get to see the experiences of the often afterthought you read about in our daily news:"Today in Israel 2 soldiers were injured..." and detail after detail about the soldiers are recounted.
I wanted to rate this higher, but I'm a harsh critic with my books lately and ultimately it was more of a 'like' than a 'really like'.
Perhaps the graphic novel format took something away from the power of the story with it's cartoonish portrayals, although I suppose this made the tales more palatable in their slightly comic way.
I guess I was expecting a slightly different work, more of a history of Palestine and examination of lives there, which I got for the most part, but it was also a tale of Joe Sacco's two month stay, with all it's trivialities as well.
There's plenty of literature out there that talks about the many injustices imposed on the Palestinians by the Israelis.
I am curious about the Isreali side of things.The book did get very draggy at times, especially when stories of despair and injustice are being told one after another.But what was disturbing was the feeling of ""So what?"" that I had.
There were 2 instances in the book whereby some of the people that Sacco met were questioning him whether all this interviews reporting would actually change things.
The world knows of this injustice and yet, nothing has changed.
Despite an interesting medium, Sacco seems very blasé white dude about all of this.
He admittedly goes to Palestine seeking the most tragic, horrific stories he can find, but spends the rest of his time avoiding as much of the experience as possible, and keeping some serious 'journalistic distance'.
Halfway through the book he gets tired of hearing about bullet wounds and beatings, and he seems to treat the hospitality of the people he visits like his right as the White Knight Journalist they've been waiting for.
Basically, I was waiting for the punchline when he figured out he was an entitled douche.
I think this should be required reading in high school.
It's cool (graphic novel), it's controversial (not everyone is interested in the Palestinian side), and it's informative (I defy anyone to look at the pictures and say you knew this--and walked away without saying anything).
Whatever you believe about the Israel-Palestine question, this is a book that will challenge your powers of argument.
Quite apart from the situation on the ground in Israel/Palestine, the author shares his fears, discomforts, happiness, and pain.
It looked and felt authentic to me.
So, yes, required reading.
A human, moving picture of Palestine in the early 90s. Diametrically the opposite view of Leon Uris's "The Haj" or modern thrillers in which Palestinians r usually depicted as evil. And thus, while it provides a view from the other side portraying Jews as evil, I remain sceptical. Also, reminded me of Basharat Peer's "Curfewed Night" on Kashmir (also loosely filmed as Haider) which I know told a partisan story.But, worth a read since a neutral person is telling a lesser known aspect. Will be reading more by the author and also more graphic novels.
I had no idea the comic book format would provide such a perfect means to tell this story. Joe Sacco’s approach is genius.
the best comic book I've ever read!
Ένα από τα (αν όχι το πιο) σημαντικό graphic novel που θα διαβάσετε ποτέ.
I am nowhere near understanding, but this book tells a story that brought me closer to understanding.
But stories like the ones told in this book--of kids throwing stones who get beaten and shot, of families losing two sons in a week, of making do in camps for generations--attach themselves to me in ways that data never can.So I'm left here trying to transition back to the world I live in and wonder how responsible I am for this knowledge?
At the very least, I hope it forever alters the way I hear the news from the middle east, that it humanizes a group of people that have become easy to dismiss.
