https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/436108.The_Rhetoric_of_Fiction
I read this some years ago and it was completely impressive, all about tellin' and showin' and modernism wishing to drive out the author's voice and very not reliable narrators and four kinds of realism and Henry James and how tears and laughter are aesthetically frauds, god damn them to hell.
Years later when I thought of this book a little something popped into my head.
I could while away the hoursRe-reading Richard PowersOr maybe Gertrude StainAnd my head I'd be scratchin'While my thoughts were busy hatchin'If I only had a brainI'd unravel any riddleof modernistic piddlewhile commutin' on a trainAnd my thoughts would be dancin'I could be another Franzen!If I only had a brainI could entertain the missusWith tales of brave UlyssesOr even James M.
Commenting on the relatively modern conclusion (never entirely agreed upon by various authorities) that “novels must be realistic,” Booth discusses the tendency of modern criticism to try to deduce universal qualities from undifferentiated kinds of fiction, thus creating generic criteria from which subsequent judgments are made, itself being an arbitrary position.
Perhaps the greatest insight that the reader can take away from this discussion is to attempt to discern what position a given author is taking in his own work, to try to identify the author’s own criteria and goals, and then to ascertain how well those goals have been met in the work of fiction in question.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Narrative Voices: "The Rhetoric of Fiction" by Wayne C. Booth(Original Review, 1981-03-28)When Booth came up with the idea of the "unreliable narrator," he wasn't speaking to writers; he was reminding critics and teachers and readers in general of something every decent writer of fiction has always known: that a narrator is a voice, and a voice is a character, and is still a character - a created fictional person - whether it has a name or is just an apparently omniscient intermediary.
But if he makes them well-- that is, makes them see what they have never seen before, moves them into a new order of perception and experience altogether-- he finds his reward in the peers he has created." is how Booth closes his book.
And if one substitutes the concept of having something, anything, of value to articulate behind what one says, some concept that is of value to the author and is worth the trouble of articulation, for Booth's somewhat hazier concept of "morality," then the "modern" writer fits squarely into Booth's rhetoric.
Exam reading.
Most of you probably don't care to read this.
This is pretty much THE bible for rhetorical literary criticism, which is, I discovered through the course of my PhD coursework, how I actually think of literature but didn't have the language for until recently.
For those of you who care.
What is nice about this second edition is that the author spends quite a bit of time going back over his first edition and amending things he believed to be true then, but sees differently now, responding to feedback/criticism he had gotten in the 20 years since the first publication, etc.
Anyway, this book is GIGANTIC, and I read it in one sitting.
Except that NO!Admitting at the same time the limitations of the field (and not pretending it is an exact science) while pretending it be treated with the methodological approach of an actual science, The Rhetoric of Fiction is a veritable gold mine explaining several key concepts in narratology.
A must read for any literature student, Booth's sheer enthusiasm for his topic make this a great read for any dedicated reader whatsoever.Although occasionally a bit verbose, it's also one of those rare theoretical texts that is ACTUALLY FUCKING UNDERSTANDABLE, like, quite easily.
Gee, Mr. Booth, thanks.
Just when you think Booth isn't going to present any anecdotes about his friend in his youth beating off to the orgy scenes in Brave New World BAM!--there it is--page 389.
The actual author needs to be aware of this implied presence he/she is creating and its effect on how the reader perceives and reads the story.
A good author, writing a good novel, will be aware of and use this presence to his/her advantage by being fully aware of what he/she is making a case for and employ good rhetoric accordingly.I'm led to wonder, how much of what I would have called an author's style is more correctly attributed as characteristics of this "implied author" concept?
I think my next step should be to find a book that takes what Mr. Booth produced here and explores that question.
An even more disturbing suspicion is that they prefer meaning to feeling."His approach to Portrait of the Artist is marvelous and his offhand summary of Joyce's epiphany is the best I've read: "When, in his earliest years, he recorded his brief epiphanies--those bits of dialogue or description that were supposed to reveal the inner reality of things--there was always an implied identification of the recorder's norms and the reader's; both were spectators at the revealing moment, both shared iin the vision of one moment of truth.
Though some of the epiphanies are funny, some sad, and some mixed, the basic effect is always the same: an overwhelming sense--when they succeed--of what Joyce liked to call the "incarnation": Artistic Meaning has come to live in the world's body.
Booth in The Rhetoric of Fiction.[2] This narrative mode is one that can be developed by an author for a number of reasons, usually to deceive the reader or audience.[1] Unreliable narrators are usually first-person narrators, but third-person narrators can also be unreliable.The nature of the narrator is sometimes immediately clear.
In some cases the narrator's unreliability is never fully revealed but only hinted at, leaving readers to wonder how much the narrator should be trusted and how the story should be interpreted.Historical novels, speculative fiction, and clearly delineated dream sequences are generally not considered instances of unreliable narration, even though they describe events that did not or could not happen."Wikipedia
Termenii de autor implicat, narator creditabil și necreditabil sînt creația lui Booth.Partea I, Puritatea artistică și retorica romanului, trece în revistă principalele tendințe și opinii referitoare la alegerile pe care le face un autor: între a povesti și a prezenta, demonstrînd că, în ciuda preferinței critice pentru a doua, granița dintre ele este arbitrară și în final nu decide valoarea operei; între obiectivism și subiectivism, alegere care nu poate nici ea servi de criteriu, pentru că nu există obiectivitate în mod absolut din moment ce nu se poate vorbi despre o distanță auctorială absolută:Autorul implicat alege, conștient sau nu, ceea ce noi citim; îl deducem ca fiind o versiune ideală, literară, a omului real; el este suma propriilor sale alegeri.
Booth writes each chapter as if it were a thesis.An aspect I enjoy is Booth's embrace and respect of the author's relationship with his work.
For all we know, the only sincere moments of his life may have been lived as he wrote his novel." (page 75)Booth uses certain works as repeated examples of device, and I especially enjoyed his analyses of types of narration.
His examples taken from James' The Turn of the Screw especially delighted me, as I've recently read A Casebook on Henry James's The Turn of the Screw, 2nd Ed..
Despite the clever disguise as a geeky academic textbook complete with bibliography and footnotes -- and the disguise is so thorough that it actually is a geeky academic textbook complete with bibliography and footnotes.Anyway, it's about how writers actually do get readers to view the characters and circumstances the way they want them to.
He touches on techniques from commentary from omniscient narrators to judicious adjectives and discusses how techniques -- even the modern, popular ones -- have their limitations as well as their uses.He even makes sense when talking about how writers write.
But when I take all of my poststructuralist leanings away, I find that this book will be eventually very useful for teaching formal approaches to fiction, as its tone, structure, and analytical approach are clear and crisp, and not laden with the sometimes useless questioning and undermining of the text that sometimes complicates the usefulness of later literary theory.
This appears to me so far to be the apex of "literary criticism" as opposed to theory, and as a closet structuralist, I am enjoying it so far.
If you want to know how to read a novel, read this book. I never thought there was anything substantial to "reader response theory," but Booth's criticism is a perfect balance of measuring the concrete techniques used by an author with the subejective responses they produce. This book will give you the tools you need to have a richer and deeper reading of any novel.
As usual, Booth is both perceptive and perplexing. I think much of what he says of authorship can't be denied. On the other hand, I DON'T think he is right about many things, V Woolf for once. It seems that he always sees so clearly and craves detachment
Raises lots of deeply fascinating and complicated questions about narrative shaping. Reading a book like this proves that there is no such thing as "realism" in literature.
Seems so fundamental to understanding the intellectual, moral, and emotional aspects of distance, I'm surprised it's not taught more often at the undergraduate level.
A great meta-novel book.
A classic in literary criticism; anyone interested in ways of reading literature should read this through.
Booth is certain that Henry James intended the governess-narrator of The Turn of the Screw to be a reliable narrator, telling a story of an encounter with actual ghosts.
It doesn't seem to have occurred to Booth that Joyce accepted, even, I would claim, embraced, the open-ended reader reaction that resulted from the more objective style of the final novel.
A strange sequel to the discussion of Portrait occurs in the next chapter where Booth discusses Henry James story "The Liar" at length.
Kitap oldukça geniş çaplı bir araştırma, okuma ve analiz barındırıyor.
Buradaki retorik, yazarın okuru nasıl yönlendirdiği üzerine.
Booth, gösterme-anlat, yazarın müdahelesi ve gayri-şahsi yazar temalarını işleyerek aslında tek bir doğru yöntemin olmadığını gösteriyor.
Tam da bu noktadaki sıkıntı, o uzun analizler ve hünerli tespitlerin sonunda aslında hiçbir doğrunun olmadığını öğrenmek.
Bu yolu ya da şu yolu takip etmenin hiçbir anlamı yok.
Her eser kendine uygun olan yolu kullanırsa başarıya ulaşacaktır.
Booth birçok kitaptan örneklerle geliyor ve bu da biraz okurun işini zorlaştırıyor gibi.
Yine de her edebiyatçının, öğrencinin ve yazarın okuması gereken bir kitap.
Here lies some spoilers - wish I knew before I started. It is definitely best fit for a student of litterature, or an aspiring author, but nonetheless, there is some common ground with film fiction regarding the communication between author/director and reader/audience. It's most exciting parts, in my opinion, are the analysis of the different kinds of narrators, and the relation between narrator and author - something that's definitely handy knowledge to carry around and have in the back of my mind creating my films.
I've been reading this book, in parts, for years and have finally (I think) tied all the parts together. As a writer, I find Booth's analyses of the narrative voice intriguing, though perhaps at times over explained. A side benefit to this book is its bibliography of literature, critical commentary of which has opened my eyes to the merits of books I might never has sought out, for instance, Tristram Shanty (now on my "to read" list).
Wayne C. Booth is always a pleasure to read; plenty of worthy insights, here.
Great book. He dissects great books to show how the author achieves his various effects.
This was a tough read but did give insight into the way a critic looks at fiction.
This is a pretty good book for those who are majoring in literature. It spotlights elements in the process of reading that one may not pay attention to. I didn't like how the author seemed to have a sense of superiority all over. It's as if he knows better than anyone else how to analyse novels. Nevertheless, it's worth reading.
I've been on a binge of reading nonfiction titles on the mechanics, theory and history of literature.
A combination of critical review techniques and examination of literature under an electron microscope, the work forced me to Google terms more often than anything I've ever read.
Booth has a talent for deconstructing great literature from art to science and reassembling the work back into art once more, leaving the this reader utterly mystified.And the afterword to his second edition (published some 22 years after the first publication) is simply hilarious.
Very amusing.This is likely the first book I've read in over a decade in a half which left me with a genuine sense of accomplishment.
It helps to have read Emma, Tristram Shandy, Samuel Beckett's Company, some Dafoe, some Swift, and whole lot of Henry James, to really piece this work together.
Booth is primarily concerned with the relationship between the narrator, the implied author, and the reader.
I think he is one of the first to use the term "unreliable narrator" to describe the critical distance required when reading a first person narrative.
I enjoyed his analysis of Austen's Emma the most, as I recently reread it and appreciated his commentary on Austen's use of narrative voice to gain the both the reader's sympathy and approbation for her heroine.
