https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/217076.Angels_on_Toast
"Doctor," she wants to say, "I think I'm going  sane ." Powell, with savage wit that tops Dot Parker, adds : "It is as sad to stop loving as it is to stop being loved."The story focuses on 2 philandering husbys ("Do what you please, but keep up the marriage front"), their inept wives ("Here was a woman you'd never tire of, because there was not enough of her to tire of"), and their needy mistresses ("Maybe you didn't want a husband or father or a child or a dog but you did have to have  something.") Despite the highest praise from Edmund Wilson, Powell never won popularity.
Gore Vidal just couldn't believe how funny Dawn Powell was, how witty her writing; after reading her entire oeuvre, after knowing her personally in the 50's while still lingering in his 20’s, Gore Vidal couldn't quite believe how one woman could have contained all that wit.
Dawn Powell, in Angels on Toast, writes about Manhattan as if the city were yet character on the make, on the take and hustling it hard like the rest of her perfectly drawn characters.
I just am not into this and I do not want to read it. Maybe it will be different someday... I can totally see why Dawn Powell is loved. She is a very interesting and maybe great writer. This is from 1940. I just want more plot. I guess that's why I like genre books.
"Angels on Toast" manages to be several things at once: it is a prescient critique of the rise of business and how from that ascent the American Dream is spun from vapor but ultimately falls flat; it is a psychological gender study that examines the plight of the white collar man, his harping and tragic wife (or wives), and the lures of the manipulative but self-preserving mistress.
If you're tempted to try "Angels on Toast," pay attention to Powell's focus on light, how it enters the room, how it shines on or evades the scene, whether its source is from nature or incandescence.
The lights help us piece together the novel's mysteries of love and desire, even as they are unraveled and laid bare right in front of our eyes.
I deeply respected the other Dawn Powell novels I've read, but I didn't love them: her surgically cruel view of humanity felt too cruel, too relentless after a while; there was neither enough wit to lighten the mood nor enough heart to deepen it and give it stakes that felt worth reading.
The characters are probably the most mercilessly unpleasant I've ever encountered in a Powell novel (which is saying a lot), but for once Powell's uproarious style had me laughing with them (rather than at them) throughout, while her relentless insights simultaneously left me feeling a very tender pity for their desperately pathetic and utterly American striving.
At first I considered this an okay read, but it grew on me the more and more I realized how deftly and brutally Dawn Powell elaborates on the lives of people whose business savviness and corporate ambition often leave a string of romantic failures.
That the book closes on Lou downgrading his class status in response to the devastation of his personal life is very telling about his error in acting like his behavior in both ought to be identical.As I am traveling and can´t elaborate much further, I feel the jokes in Angels on Toast come not as frequently, but are still solid; there are moments where it seems Powell is emulating a hard-boiled style, and the book finishes after it feels like it´s stayed its welcome.
Among Dawn Powell's best -- chapter five alone reads like the best short story written about a certain kind of life in New York City; up there with Breakfast at Tiffany's. A ranging cast of characters, perfectly described and deployed.
A really great book shows us how everything is great and worth to die for
As I have frequently found in Powell's novels, the book works better in parts than as a whole, even though the story line of "Angels on Toast" is generally clear and coherent.The story is basically a satire of American business in the later 1930s with the scene shifting back and forth from Chicago to New York City.
Also, the business world is satirized in essentially the same terms as the various components of New York society Powell satirizes in her other books -- i.e. the characters are egotistical in the extreme, heavy drinkers (always), and sexually promiscuous and unfaithful.Some of the individual scenes in the book are well-done.
Set in NYC, Chicago and a few other places in the USA during the Spanish Civil War it tracks the comings and goings of two hard boiled, hard drinking, womanizing businessman as they try to make money and pick up women, while keeping their wives at bay.
Powell is brutal in her assessment of the character flaws of all her creations but the book crackles with sharp dialogue and great set pieces.
In many ways times and behaviors have changed but the anachronistic characters carry the same hopes and conflicts of modern men and women.
Young businessmen on the make don't change much over the decades, so this entertaining and insightful novel hasn't loss a bit of its relevance - it's "period" and evergreen at the same time. Aficionados of menswear will have a grand time reading this book, from the very first page where the guys are discussing clocked socks and pink shirts with detachable white collars.
A delicious little read. Why? Because these two salesmen think they're such Casanovas That they can get away with treating their wives any old way they want, and you're just biding your time, enjoying this crafting of lousy characters and waiting for them to get enough rope to hang themselves.
I read an essay that Gore Vidal wrote in praise of Powell, and on its strength I read ANGELS ON TOAST. Not exactly sublime, I thought, but an enjoyable romp.
Fairly unpleasant book about philandering businessmen
Angels on Toast : 3,5 estrellas.Lou Donnovan y Jay Oliver son dos hombres de negocios, y cuentan con lo que ellos considerarían una buena vida. Tienen dinero, tienen emprendimientos, familias y amigos, y también tienen algunos secretos. Ambos engañan a sus mujeres, pero claro que Lou siempre está un paso más adelante. A diferencia de Jay, él nunca se enreda con una misma chica, sino que lo mantiene casual. Así, no hay ninguna posibilidad de ser atrapado. Aunque no parezca, respeta mucho a su es
Ambos engañan a sus mujeres, pero claro que Lou siempre está un paso más adelante.
Sin embargo, cuando Trina Kameray aparece en escena, las cosas dejan de ser predecibles, y ello sí puede ser un problema.Si bien creo que se trata de una buena historia, entretenida y, como siempre, bien escrita, debo decir que esperaba un poco más.
Por momentos, se volvía denso y repetitivo, ya que eran las mismas actitudes y hechos una y otra vez, sólo que con un ámbito diferente.La descripción de las escenas es muy buena, eso nunca sería una crítica.
Jay Oliver and Lou Donovan are friends.
They like making money, getting drunk and cheating on their wives.Lou married above his station.
He loathes and wants to impress his wife's family with his ambition and acquired wealth.
If the point here is to satirize the aspirational classes or to expose the harsh realities of an illusory world, there's not much glamour there to begin with to be disillusioned from.
Maybe that is the point of satire- to exaggerate the behavior- but i found the sum of its parts to be more a tepid bore than a wry comedy of manners.
Dawn Powell is one of America's great, forgotten authors, but, unlike many others, she has been resurrected and reprinted thanks to efforts by Gore Vidal and, her biographer, Tim Page. Powell presents a social satire or pre-World War II America in "Angels on Toast". While she flips between Chicago and New York, this is really a New York novel. We have promoters, eccentrics, wives, and lovers all out to get what they want, for better or worse. Powell's insight and wit make for an entertaining read.
Angels on Toast was fun to read - a lot of Dorothy Parker worthy zingers and observations. The essential conceit of the characters is that they are never satisfied with what they have and when they get what they want - they find it isn't what they wanted. This is an old plot device (see Arabian Nights among others) but what saves it are the characters. F. Scott Fitzgerald wrote "The Beautiful and Damned", his contemporary Dawn Powell could have subtitled this one "The Wacky and Sordid"!
Is this Powell's best novel? Hard to say, but in any case it's marvelous. She is uniquely perceptive, and details all the ways in which human beings can deceive themselves while simultaneously failing to deceive others. And, she's hilarious. The drollest prose this side of Raymond Chandler, each page is stuffed with the sort of witticisms that have you laughing out loud.
Read in Novels, 1930-1942. This was the best book in that collection of Dawn Powell's novels. Social satire of the 1920s.
Sharp social satire from a forgotten novelist with a cult following. New York society on the eve of World War II, businessmen on the make and their wives, mistresses, rivalries, shenanigans, disasters... Funny and merciless.
Powell's eighth novel, and first published by Scribner's, is kind of a letdown from the terrific _Turn, Magic Wheel_. There are complex subtleties at work in the prose and the plot, and several moments are quite funny, but overall it seems a less satisfying novel than Powell's other works.
Dawn Powell is an author I really enjoy reading but this is the least of her books in my opinion.I didn't like, or hate, anyone in the story. I just didn't care. They seemed to deserve any misery that befell them and maybe miseries that they dodged.
This book is a great look into the late 20's world of NYC advertising and business. I learned a lot about how life worked back then, the trials and tribulations unmarried women past a 'certain age.' The style is very flip by today's standards, but very readable.
I enjoyed the writing at first but it just went on with the same thing over and over - got boring. It is set in the 1920's or so - big shot men their wives, their mistresses, their business in Chicago and New York.
Am fast becoming a Dawn Powell cult member. This one was funnier and ultimately sadder than LOCUSTS. More tightly woven but less romantic. Loved the focus on Chicago and places other than NYC. Highly recommended.
Possibly the only under-rated New York author ever....
Amazing dialogue and prose about the last people you'd want to be trapped in a room with.
Great characters and atmostphere... low on plot.
I haven't actually finished it, because really I couldn't care less. I kept going for 218 pages and again, I couldn't care less. Bye.
