https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46461.A_Small_Town_in_Germany
He had been sent from London to look for Leo Harting, one of the secretaries in the British Embassy in Bonn who had gone missing at about the same time as some missing files.When I arrived at page 140, Chapter 8 about Jenny Pargiter, my eyes lit up.
Who was I trying to convince?“I assume,” Jenny Pargiter began, in a prepared statement, “that you are used to dealing in delicate matters.”Of course, Alan Turner was and it was all about how she had met Harting.No, sadly, this wasn’t interesting either.I found the book boring, cold, stiffly written, lacking any sparkle and contrived.
Suddenly, a low-level diplomat disappears from the British Embassy in Bonn, along with a highly confidential personalities file.
He’s cynical, sharp-tongued, dirty-minded, happy to make enemies, and worst of all, from the wrong social class.
He begins his hunt by assuming that the disappeared diplomat, Leo Harting, is spying for the Soviet Union.
The book begins by taking us through the different departments, levels and personalities of the Embassy, a world with which Le Carre is obviously familiar.
I thought I'd read all of Le Carré's books that I cared to read. I recently discovered this one and it might be my favorite one. Chronologically, it falls between his early mystery novels ("Call for the Dead" and "A Murder of Quality") and the spy novels. It draws from both genres and is better for it. I recommend reading it without reading any reviews because they give too much of the plot away.
η φαντασία του Λε Καρέ γεννά αντιστοιχίες κ σε τυραννα επί 400 σελίδες, σέρνοντας σε μαζί με τον ήρωα Άλαν Τέρνερ να ξετυλίγει ένα κουβάρι που κάνεις δεν πρόσεχε ως τότε.
Μέσα από ένα καμβά προσώπων κ χαρακτήρων - ο Λε Καρέ ανέκαθεν ζωντανευε κ τον πιο μικρό ήρωα με μια πληθώρα σκέψεων κ λόγων - τελικά όλα κορυφώνονται στις τελευταίες 100 σελίδες, ταχυτατα και σαρωτικα, χωρίς μέχρι τότε να παρατηρείς το ξενοδοχείο στην κορυφή του λόφου της Βόννης όπου το 1938 ο Τσαμπερλαιην διεμεινε για τις διαπραγματεύσεις της συνθήκης του Μονάχου...
This slow burn novel is predominantly set in Bonn, then the capital of West Germany, in the late 1960s, with a backdrop of significant political upheaval: numerous student demonstrations, and interestingly, given the current Brexit negotiations, part of this book's context is whether the UK will be invited to join the EU which was very much in the balance at the time.
In this instance he was writing this novel whilst some of the events depicted were unfolding and this makes the book a time-capsule, and one I was engrossed by.One of the protagonists is Alan Turner, a no nonsense style Mr Fix It who alienates pretty much everyone he encounters, and the sort of flawed anti hero that is often John le Carré's stock in trade.
Le Carre's books trigger emotion in me.
Deeply.Le Carre's skill at presenting things not quite as they are, while subtly suggesting what is, was and probably will be, delights me.
His paints his misanthropy with a loving brush.
We are too much like the British and too successful to write us off.
I'm amused that some Britishers refer to us as "cousins." We are, rather, rebellious grown children who should have appreciated mum more.
Would that admit defeat for mum?
But I'm not infected by empire.Objectively, this is probably not a five-star but I so love his perspective, male characters, settings and interplay.
Le Carre is the grandfather of all spy stories. Although a little slow paced, the story has enough depth to keep you involved. Unfortunately I think the female characters get stranded in typical gender stereotypes and none of them have enough spark to make you think they're anything but filler. However, Carre has great insight into the intelligence community and all the drama rings true.
What in the heck did I just read?Because I am muddled about this book, I cannot give it a rating.
I enjoyed this far more than I originally thought I would. I started slowly making my way through the George Smiley novels and I'm glad that I decided to try this one as well. Well worth reading simply as a departure to the Smiley novels. Well worth the time.
To be honest, I was a bit disappointed by the ending. However, this is much deeper than a typical Cold War novel. It speaks pointedly to the human condition, and the thoughts and emotions that drive people's actions, particularly when motivated by different things. It's a very good read from that standpoint, but the culmination of the plot left me scratching my head a bit.
So Alan Turner goes to Bonn, the titular small town, in search of an employee who has gone missing and is possibly a spy.
(view spoiler)[And that's where things begin to get interesting, because this book is specifically about German memory and German forgetting.
You can move your capital from a big city to a small town, but you can't forget the big things.
(hide spoiler)]Turner spends much of the book on the small things, tracing odd little details of the suspected spy's life, his romances, hobbies and failures.
Written before "Tinker, Tailor" and set at the height of the Cold War,a junior official in the West German capital goes missing with a sheaf of confidential material.
The junior offical is an emigre and his disappearance could be a massive embarrassment to HMG.
The Foreign Office send Alan Turner, a bulldozer of an investigator, who is not prepared to let the niceties of realpolitik get in his quest for the truth.
This is a fiction about squaring the circle and how the truth can sometimes be a massive embarrassment.
'Shady doings' at the British Embassy in Bonn, Germany.
This is an odd-item among LeCarre's early works; and it is often overlooked because it appears 'out-of-sequence' --even, 'disrupting' the Smiley saga--and its protagonist seems to have been the one-off appearance of admittedly a rather boring and ineffectual hero, called in to solve a singular mystery, and then never heard from again.
One wonders why LeCarre wrote this minor drama at all.
Perhaps it is the result of a hol in Bonn?No matter.
It's just an extremely odd, annoying-that-it-doesn't-match-with-anything-else, type of book.
A lot of readers (and le Carré himself, in the introduction to this edition) will point to how wrong the writer gets the German character and where that society went in the aftermath of the war, but if we cared more about Turner and the places this story took him to, we could forgive that.
No, the flaw is in Turner - we never really get to know him outside of his determination to solve the case (and seemingly piss off everyone involved at the same time).
Brilliantly plotted, when one of the officer goes missing, but existing artificial effect.......very clever.Leo Harting works twenty years as Chancery officer was missing, and an investigation was conducted due to the disappearance of the forty odd files that contained the most sensitive materials on high ranking German politicians.
The rest are top secret, and Anglo-German agreements:secret treaties, secret codicils to published agreement.Since, Leo works with Meadowes "Turner" suspects that Harting was a spy.
Leo, found some evidence that will endanger him from Ludwig.
While, Bradfield was unfeeling towards Harting's state of affairs, because he thinks Leo was an embarrassment and felonious.
Leo Harting in a low-grade admin worker at the British Embassy in Bonn, West Germany.
Evidently, a green file is highly sensitive.Back in the UK, a Foreign Office worker named Alan Turner is sent to find Leo Harding and, most important, try to collect the missing documents.
Alan Turner is not liked by most who work around him.
But then it is not necessary to like Turner.
That's the Foreign Office point of view.
The diplomats of the British Embassy in Bonn have a very different outlook.
If you like John Le Carre stories; you'll enjoy this gripping mystery.
4.5 stars rounded up.This is apparently one of le Carre's less admired novels, which surprises me because I thought it was excellent.
The twin challenges of a populist German activist and political hopeful pushing for greater links with the USSR (and therefore with East Germany) and Common Market negotiations play out against the backdrop of the main plot, in which Alan Turner comes from London to investigate Harting's disappearance and recover the files Harting stole before he vanished.
Turner is vaguely Leamas-like, a bull in a china shop who is impatient of the hypocrises (necessary and otherwise) of the diplomatic and espionage upper echelons.
The plot is solid: a German national who's a long-time 'temporary' employee of the British embassy disappears with some important files (paper, of course).
The writing is superb, the plot is solid, and when the investigator finally reaches a conclusion, it's likely not what you expected.
I read a lot in this genre, and one thing I was struck by while making my way through this book was how different the reaction would be in today's world.
There wouldn't be one investigator sent, more likely a team with a bunch of computer and forensics experts.
Would've been a different book, but if Le Carre wrote it I'd still read it!
My first by John Le Carre - a good read. I wish I could give it 4.5.https://piningforthewest.co.uk/2017/1...
Set in Bonn in the mid 1960s we are introduced to the British diplomats and others who work in the British Embassy at the time when Britain was trying so hard to enter the EU.
I thought I had read this some time ago but obviously not and it is not a good choice when one is not really feeling well.
I remember that time and remember adults who remembered the War saying that Germany must not be united and must most certainly not be allowed to rearm no matter the rationale.
Perhaps this is a good time to be reading this with Britain now stumbling its way out of that Union.
But then it takes you screaming down odd twisted paths and leaves you dumped at the end of the line, wholly unsatisfied, but ready to read another book by John le Carre.There, my one-paragraph review of “A Small Town in Germany,” the first of le Carre’s books I’ve read, following my long-standing policy of reading books that typically come to me through thrift store purchases, outright donations or are discovered being smuggled into the house baked inside loaves of bread.The one sympathetic character in the book is the one you don’t get to meet.
In the novel’s late 1960s West Germany, political power is in flux and the western powers seem weak against the might and will of Moscow.
A minor embassy official named Leo Harting has disappeared, along with valuable and potentially damaging files.
If you’ve read The Spy Who Came In From the Cold, he will remind you of Alec Leamas.Turner is like a catalyst; his questioning reveals each interviewee’s own psyche when discussing Leo. Each one also adds more detail and nuance to Turner’s view of the man and what he may have done.
Bonn was chosen to be the capital of West Germany, and not surprisingly it was a key battleground in the Cold War.
A minor British embassy worker, Leo Harting, has disappeared with a significant number of confidential files.
Sensing a Soviet mole a spy catcher from the Foreign Office, Alan Turner, is sent to investigate.
All whilst set in time when there were genuine concerns the Far-Right could rise again in Germany and ex-Nazis remained free and in positions of government.Turner is probably one of my favourite Le Carre creations.
I think on reflection this is an important bridging work between Le Carre's early Cold War classic thrillers and his Smiley/Karla trilogy.
And they are classics; no-one captures that unique grubby sense of moral ambiguity better than Le Carre.
Originally published on my blog here in May 2000.Continuing the bleak atmosphere of his earlier novels, John le Carré produced A Small Town in Germany, which looks forward from the political, social and economic world of the late sixties in as pessimistic a manner as possible.
(There are few clues for a reader today not familiar with early seventies European politics to mark this novel out as set in the future; it is only the publication date which places it before such events as the three day week.)Set in Bonn (the small town of the title) at a time when neo-Naxis are agitating against the English while the UK is canvassing for West German support for their application for EEC membership, the novel focuses on the search for an absconding defector from the British Embassy.
The main character is Alan Turner, a Foreign Office employee who has been sent to the British embassy in Bonn to find out what has happened to an embassy employee, Leo Harting, a German national who seems to have disappeared with a number of secret files.
I enjoyed the pace of this story, as Turner interogates and searches for clues in an embassy that seems to want to bury the situation.
What was Leo Harting up to?
But still an excellent example of le Carre's story telling and his knowledge of political intrigue.
I'm probably being harsh, as I can't help but subject this to the exacting standards of the rest of le Carre's work.
But somehow the plot just doesn't have enough punch - maybe there is not enough of a sense of jeopardy, as most of that is invested in a character who we have no direct experience of.
The plot hinges on the threat of a potential intelligence breach ruining GB's relationship with West Germany - the main British fear being the loss of German support for their application to join the EU.
Re-reading these earlyish Le Carre thrillers after some 30 years has been extremely rewarding.
This short, fast-moving novel is akin to noir - when a low-level agent from the Bonn office goes missing with a secret file, a special agent is called in from London to investigate.
The agent, Turner, quickly realizes that things in Bonn are much more complicated than he thought.
Le Carre presents us with a real mystery, as Turner pieces together who the agent was and why he ran away.
I had to remind myself that I was listening to the time when Britain was fighting to gain access to the Common Market, not Brexit.
I had to remind myself that the right-wing movement and charismatic leader was from 1968 not 2016.
So many parallels to today's geo-political world and such a good story on top of it.The reason I read this early work by John Le Carre's is that I was reading his book The Pigeon Tunnel and he referenced this book as the one where embassy life (diplomats and some spies?) were the most realistically depicted.
I enjoyed that aspect, but the story and its construction were the real stars.Highly recommended!
Throughout most of this early le Carré novel, I was convinced I would probably rate it three stars. It was interesting, but plodded at times. It seemed a little provincial, a bit dated, ended up being historically incorrect, and seemed almost like le Carré was writing a Henry James ghost story more than a le Carré thriller. However, by the end I loved it. The chapter before the Epilogue (a conversation between Turner and Bradfield) was absolutely genius. It was one of the most powerful chapters in any book I've come across that wasn't originally written in Russian.
Written in 1968, against a backdrop of student unrest and British attempts to enter the Common Market, this is a compelling story set in the British Embassy in Bonn, where Le Carre himself had worked some years earlier. A missing German long serving Embassy staff member and some missing files see the dogged Alan Turner fly in from London. A story of moral and political ambiguity, with the class system of the British diplomatic community biting into the narrative, leads to a final explanation of the disappearance. Le Carre is a great writer, even in this relatively early work.
