https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/759718.The_Adventures_of_Ulysses
This may not be the worst book I've ever read, but it defiantly on the list.
I extremely disliked how the author wrote this book.
In each chapter there would be a new problem and Ulysses would solve it and they would then move onto a new island.
It was like that for the whole story, a island, a new problem, and Ulysses always solved it.
Ulysses may be a hero, but he is not a god.
I don't know if anyone I know will enjoy this book because I certainly didn't.
Every child has grown up reading, or being read, tales.My favorites were, and still are, Snow White and the Odyssey.I can't even recall how many times I've watched the amazing 1997 movie of Odyssey with Armand Assante and Isabella Rosellini!!!I've read the original "epos" of Homer too, and all I want to say is that B.Evslin did an amazing job!I really enjoyed reading again the adventures of Ulysses! I think it's the most epic story of all time and EVERYONE must read it!
This is the worst book I've ever read. Giving this book one star is too much. The whole book repeats itself until the last chapter. The last chapter cuts to the chase and then it's over.
We're reading this book for English class right now.Before we started reading about Greek myths and legends, I knew nothing, not the slightest thing.
But after reading a couple of books...
I LOVE IT!!!Greek myths are intriguing myths that draw you into a magical world full of adventure, danger and excitement.I'm especially interested in reading about all the perils Ulysses had to face in order to go home to Ithaca...
it's AWESOME!!!I don't care about what other people say, this book is really good and if you're a person who loves reading about thrilling odysseys and dangers lurking in every page, I recommend this book.
It was pretty good; I like Greek myths so that's probably why. However, it wasn't my favorite myth I've read.
This was an assigned read so going into it I had no expectations. I was pleasantly surprised. I liked the action in it.
Good book for people who want an easier side of the Odyssey. Had to read for school.Wasn't very interesting.Felt like the same thing was happening over and over again. Thank you for reading.
Ulysses is a very brave men and I think that he deserves to go to The Elysian Fields when he dies because he is definitely a hero.The Adventures of Ulysses book is about a sailor that goes on a journey to save a girl named Hellen.
And I don't recommend this to people that are older than 15 years old because I don't think that people that are above that age like this kind of adventures but if they like myths and gods I think they might enjoy it, even though they can find more complicated books to read!
One word: IT WAS AMAZING!!!... Wait... (Counting on fingers)... That's 3 words. Nevermind. I loved this book. But then again, I am a mythology geek. And because of that, not a lot of other people are. This book was descriptive, short, sweet, and the characters had life-like emotions. Ulysses was sometimes a jerk, and he was very confident in himself. Like the title says, the book focuses mainly on him. I recommend this book to fellow mythology geeks, and people who can read a lot of old words like "ye".
I still remember reading and LOVING this book in junior high. I highly recommend it now for middle grade readers because it presents the story of Ulysses for younger readers in a compelling and highly readable way. Ulysses references come up quite a bit in life, and thanks to this book, I have always known (and loved) the story and understood the context of those references.
I read this book as a child and have read it every few years. It was the book that inspired me to start travelling, to want to see the world outside of my city. Ulysses was my hero. He was strong, wise, and goal oriented, and seemed to come through despite getting his ass knocked around by monsters and gods. I absolutely love this book.
That fighting is cool and dont mess with people with beards
0.5/5.0 what even was that?
... will write a review... someday... never...idk...?
For example, the bottom of page 156 was kind of a let down because when we finally meet Argo, Ulysses's 21 year old dog, he immediately dies in Ulysses's hands with out any warming moments, he just dies.
One scene that was pretty exciting was when Ulysses throws the giant rock slab at the suitors and kills them all with one try.
Another thing that was cool about the book was that the story wasn't cheesy, and not everyone lived happily ever after.
The final thing I want to mention is that Ulysses has a caring heart for Penelope and Telemachus.
You see this whole thing started when Ulysses (the guy that came up with the Trojan horse) started his journey home when they found unprotected riches in a unprotected village and attacked even though they had spoils of war in there ships.
The main characters are Ulysses the gods and Ulysses family.
The ending I really like it has Ulysses and his family take over the castle from princes trying to marry Ulysses wife.
Including the story about Ulysses bow who nobody can pull accept him.
I would highly recommend this book.
The book "Ulysseus" by Bernard Evslin, was a good book if you like Greek mythology, and action.
The book is about the journey home for Ulysseus and his men.
(hide spoiler)] I really liked this book because it had constant action throughout, and was tough to put down.
I especially liked a part in the book where Ulysseus and his men find themselves on the island of Polyphemus.
Ulysseus and his men find themselves trapped in Polyphemus' cave.
Ulysseus stabs out Polyphemus' eye and him and his men escape out of the cave via under the bellies of giant sheep.
ulysses was one of the worst books i have ever read. All it talked about was war, war,and more war. I think it would be better for a guy because their into action, but not for a girl.I gave it one star because it was boring. I was actually forced to read it as a grade. It was out of my hands, but i never want to read it again!!!!!
An edited retelling of Homer's Odyssey in modern English. Most of the adventures are covered and this is a wonderful introduction to the "real thing" since having some background will enhance the understanding of Homer's original work. Better than Cliff Notes! Of course, nothing beats Homer's original.
Read for 6th grade EnglishWhen I first read this when I was 11 years old, I thought it was too bloody and descriptive and yet boring. My opinion has changed.Tbh, I've never actually read the Iliad. But I know the story well. And I love it.Because of that, I think I should give this another shot. I'll probably read the original Odyssey as well.
NOT A GOOD BOOK!!!!
I read it cause I had to for school, I wouldn't recommend it unless you want to learn about a few greek gods.
i have to read it for school...:(
I really liked this book because the adventures were really cool and it tell's the story really straight forward.
An amazing retelling of Homer's Odyssey. I think mythology lovers of any age will enjoy this book.
(note: I've since learned that Ulysses is the Latin/Roman variant of Odysseus, but if we're calling the gods by their Greek names in the story, why not keep it uniform?).
Since the publishing of this book, Rick Riordan has written his incredibly popular Percy Jackson and Heroes of Olympus series that bring Greek Mythology and the whole hero’s quest concept to a much more modern space.
For me, as a reader, the trials and tribulations of Ulysses are vaguely entertaining but it’s all pretty macho and I rolled my eyes at the roles the human women (Penelope for example) in the story and the opinions of men towards them.
There is only one thing to do, “Driving down with both hands and all the strength of his back and shoulders and all his rage, Ulysses stabbed the glowing spike into [Polyphemus’] eye” (23) This quote depicts how Ulysses is here just to protect his crew from dangers so he takes the offensive because there are not many more options.
This shows that Ulysses will do whatever it takes to save his crew and he will even put his own life at danger to save them.Ulysses outsmarts his enemies because he is very intelligent.
I have always enjoyed reading about Greek gods, goddesses, and heroes.
Ulysses and Jason are my two favorite heroes and I can't get enough of their stories!This retelling is well written for young adults and the story moves along swiftly!
I admire how Ulysses is able to outwit the gods against him and how he is determined to get home to his Lady Penelope, and his son Telemachus, who is now a grown man!How Ulysses is able to defeat the suitors has always been the highlight of the story for me!The saddest part of the story is when Argo passes away in Ulysses' arms.
My teacher gave us the option to read it at school, since we are studying Greek Mythology.
I decided to give it a try, just because I was out of books to read.
And guess what?
I hated this book.It was the worst book I read this year, honestly.
I didn't like Ulysses all that much, or any of the characters.
The whole love situation Ulysses found himself in was quite horrifying, considering his wife at home.
It was a short book, but it felt like the longest slump in the world.
Don't read it.
If there's one good thing to come if having read this, it's a better appreciation of the "original" translated version of The Odyssey that I read. I suppose it's a good entry point for young readers to get the gist of the story, but the plot has been stripped and the language is pretty lame. Top it off with lousy editing (type-o's abound) and this was a pretty lame read. I guess Evslin's Heroes and Monsters is his best work. I may try that one still, but I wouldNot recommend this one.
