https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13664.Catwings
Catwings is a heartwarming coming-of-age, but contemporary issues and symbolism simmer beneath the surface for those willing to paw their way to greater meaning. In just forty-eight pages, Le Guin's memorable tale of four winged-kittens explores marginalized communities, race, and compassion. Mrs. Jane Tabby could not explain why all four of her children had wings. "I suppose their father was a fly-by-night," a neighbor said, and laughed unpleasantly, sneaking round the dumpster. "Maybe they hav
Catwings is a heartwarming coming-of-age, but contemporary issues and symbolism simmer beneath the surface for those willing to paw their way to greater meaning. In just forty-eight pages, Le Guin's memorable tale of four winged-kittens explores marginalized communities, race, and compassion.
  Mrs. Jane Tabby could not explain why all four of her children had wings. "I suppose their father was a fly-by-night," a neighbor said, and laughed unpleasantly, sneaking round the dumpster. "Maybe they have wings because I dreamed, before they were born, that I could fly away from this neighborhood," said Mrs. Jane Tabby.
Adorable little book. The thing I love about children's books (and by extension, a lot of MG stories) is that they don't tend to spend as much time as YA or adult stories explaining themselves. Like, the kittens were born with wings. How? Who cares? Moving on. And I think that's incredibly important, because the how or the why isn't the point of the story.
I loved this book/series so much when I was a child that as an adult I got a tattoo of one of the illustrations. :)
Cute purry cats with wings and Ursula Le Guin -- back in 1988, this combination did not really work for me.
I was too much in awe of Leguin's mind-expanding stories and her rich humane wisdom to feel comfortable with her as the writer of what is, quite frankly, a rather simplistic children's book.Parenthood changes many things.
I've now found that its very simplicity makes this an excellent read aloud book.
True it's not particularly deep, but the fineness of the prose shines through if you give it a chance -- the slower pace of reading aloud makes it easier to appreciate.
And the kittens' wings are furry.
Un cuento suuuuuper cortiro al más puro estilo de las fábulas tradicionales. Entrañable y divertido, los pequeños lo disfrutarán especialmente, y me han encantado las ilustraciones (también muy clásicas).
It's a book about cats. With wings. By Ursula Le Guin. Of course I loved it even if I'm about 24 years older than its target audience.
They have the same solid reality and aching sense of longing that many of her fantasies for adult readers give.
UKL's books always have a sense of rightness about them, like that, that defies explanation.
She shares that quality with Tolkien, and consequently they're the only two fantasy writers I truly love.I'm brokenhearted today for a completely non-cat- non-wing-related reason, but somehow these charming characters are just what I needed to feed and heal me.
I'm taking them tomorrow to someone I dearly love, whom I hope may feel the rush of wings and brush of tail, and be fed and healed as was I.
I read this series of short books aloud to my daughter when she was in the first grade. We both were mesmerized by this sweet and subtly deep story about a litter of cats born with wings. There is no magic in these books, and yet they are pure magic. Definitely recommended, and they really kept my attention as well. Subtle lessons about compassion and how different people react to others with unusual traits.
I'd read the Earthsea Series (and a few other of LeGuin's books) in high school, but Catwings wasn't on my radar. LeGuin creates a sense of wonder; there is something very simplistic and charming about this short tale of a litter of kittens born with wings. What's a mother to do? How do other animals react when it's time for the kittens to (stretch their wings and) leave home? Quick read that stays with you for a while.
Four winged kittens set out to find a better place to live than the city. But country life has its challenges, too. Charming illustrations, a storyteller who tells the truth “slant” as Emily Dickinson said, some humor, and a happy ending made a delightful, fabulous story.
This cute little story is all about cats. The Winged Cats. What's not to love? <3
Ursula'dan çok tatlı bir çocuk kitabı. Çocuklarınıza hayvan sevgisi aşılamak isterseniz okutabilirsiniz, ayrıca hayal güçlerini de besleyecektir.
The first in the series of these early reader books which seem to those 'first chapter' books. The story was quick to read and Schindler's illustrations were absolutely gorgeous. As always, the reader is treated to some wonderful prose by Le Guin and it would be wrong to deny the children reader a chance to explore and enjoy the author's utterly wonderful mastery of word and wisdom. Plus, it has flying cats.
I'm glad that this great book is still in print even after all these years. It's a short but wonderful little novel and the illustrations are really nice, too.
Now I need more Catwings series in my life.
Cute illustrations, good writing...but a bit too short and lightweight for my tastes.
I'm just glad my fat cats can't fly.
Ada Seven’den Not: Bu kitaptan kedilerin annelerine olan bağlantısını, ve kanatlı kedi olduğu için onlara kendi başlarına yaşamayı öğrenmeniz gerekir der ve akşam yemeğine otururlar gözleri dolan yavrular biz sensiz ne yaparız derler annelerine.......
The cats do just that, and they encounter danger along the way before finally discovering a couple of human children in the country who mean them no harm.Just below the surface, however, is a story about acceptance in a world where being different is not acceptable.
Don't rock the boat and mess with the status quo, Catwings!Amidst the danger and discrimination, the flying cats discover two children who see the cats' differences as wonderful, even though they know they must keep the cats a secret to protect them from a world that would only see them as anomalies to be exploited or maybe even destroyed: " 'And we'll never ever tell anybody else,' Hank said, rather fiercely.
I read this children's book a few days ago just because it was by Ursula K.
Le Guin -- I'm a big fan of exposing kids to fine writing.
It seemed like a good book to read to a child, nicely written but nothing spectacular.
However, I find that the book keeps coming to mind.
There are a number of issues raised (pros and cons of being different, adjusting to new situations, accepting inevitabilities, deciding whom to trust, supporting family members) in ways that would be appealing to children and that simply make a good story.
Another perfect little modern fable for bedtime stories. This time the subject is a group of cats born with wings. Sweet and charming, Le Guin is real master at this type of storytelling. The art is delightful as well, and very evocative of early 2oth century children's literature. There's a lot of complex social concepts presented for children in a context that makes them readily digestible. Le Guin is (sorry, it's still so recent) ... was a genius.
I saw this book at the library and was immediately reminded of my childhood. A nostalgic feeling, for sure, rereading it. What a sweet book that is perfectly astute: "Mother always said that if you found the right kind of Hands, you'd never have to hunt again. But if you found the wrong kind, it would be worse than dogs". Isn't that a perfect summary of all humankind, in a way?
My daughter brought this home from school, and when I saw who the author was, I was delighted to sit and read this with her. My daughter was equally impressed when I showed her a couple of my books with the same author name upon them.We sat down and had a great reading session together, and I am now a little more impressed with her school!
Yeah, there's no way in the real world that a litter of kittens is going to be born with four normal limbs and two wings; genetics don't work that way. But, a story about kittens with wings? Awesome. Reality can take a nap.
Catwings is a sweet little book. I like pretty much everything Ursula Le Guin writes, so it's not surprising that I like her fiction for young children, too. It seems like it'd be pretty good to read aloud, but there are also lovely pictures.And cats! With wings! Having adventures!
This was a rather sweet story. The ending was lovely. ^_^
I read this when I was small and remembered it as being super adorable. Small me was so right. But small me didn't appreciate the WONDERFUL cattish illustrations. Come on, small me!
The first Ursula Le Guin book I ever read and still my favourite ...
What an adorable and odd little book.
This book was charming and simple and cute. I loved it! Recommend to anyone regardless of age.
