https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/420966.Wilt
Better Late Than NeverScatological sarcasm is a Sharpe speciality.
Wilt goes for the jugular of California-chic, a somewhat more recent tradition inserting itself into British life during the 1970’s.
Being in a somewhat sheltered environment in the 70’s educational-wise, as Wilt’s wife Eva might say (I spent most of that period on a ship at sea or in the semi-dream state of a married graduate student), I missed a great deal of the development in popular culture.
The mere fact that I had never read Sharpe suggests my naive isolation.
It's a short, (dare I say it) Sharpe read and if you feel the need to escape from reality for a few hours, I couldn't recommend a novel more highly.I'm sure some of my high school English teachers would have had palpitations to read some of his sentences.
The central one is Henry Wilt, who is wonderfully obtuse.He made good use of stereotypes too (yes, some police really were that dumb years ago) (having worked for a while in academia I saw no evidence that academics would mend their factional back-biting ways in a hurry, so they ring quite true on the book) (Americans did seem a bit odd back then) (and I'm sure Wilt's wife would have got over her fixation for Harpic toilet cleaner).He throws all these characters together and we get to see how they interact!
(Unfortunately, I've come across many a book that had me laughing out loud because the writing was just bloody awful, but that's a topic for another day.) Until recently I had never heard of Tom Sharpe, nor of his books--in particular, his outrageously wonderful novel, WILT (published decades ago), until I was given a copy as a gift by a delightfully ornery friend.
The dialogue among his colleagues at the technical institute--especially as they witness the doll being "pulled" from the hole--had me laughing so hard I had to get up from my chair.
Such hilarity! Tom Sharpe comedy capers are brilliant. The TV film adaption starring Griff Rhys Jones and Mel Smith had me in fits. The film did the book justice. 👍🐯The vision of a naked Griff tied to a blow up sex doll! Uugh!
Comédia inteligente, carregada de sátira e humor negro. O pior são os clichés algo datados dos anos 1970, e os personagens por vezes demasiado previsíveis. Ainda assim envolve-nos bem, a ponto de estar a passear na rua e começar a rir-me sozinho ao recordar sequências do livro. Uma leitura leve, ainda que engenhosa, capaz de nos proporcionar momentos de muito boa disposição.
Don't make the mistake of reading this book in public. Everyone will think you're crazy. I have rarely laughed so much reading anything. It's very light but totally hilarious. After reading this I became a fan of Tom Sharpe and read more of his books. They are perfect if you are looking for light relief or need cheering up.
Libro repleto de situaciones hilarantes, diálogos surrealistas y personajes muy particulares. Y es que no nos cansaremos de repetirlo: ¡cómo nos gusta el humor inglés! Reseña completa:http://www.libros-prohibidos.com/tom-...
Tom Sharpe was arguably the most accomplished British humourist since PG Wodehouse and Wilt is possibly his best loved book.
Sharpe drew on his experiences as a polytechnic lecturer in conceiving the character of hapless and unhappily married Henry Wilt, who spends his days teaching Lord of the Flies to disinterested apprentice butchers and his nights fantasising about killing his less than sympathetic wife, Eva. However, when Eva goes missing after a disastrous party in which Henry finds himself tied to an inflatable sex doll, things take a decided turn for the anarchic.
Sharpe's characters are a delightful melange of the awful and absurd, amounting a to a caustic observation on the state of British society at the time.
It's an outlandish plot, but full of bawdy Brit humor, a very funny book. During one scene a police inspector talks to the main character Wilt, after a pretty funny set of circumstances lead them to believe he has murdered his wife, and Wilt is purposely giving them the runaround during interrogation sessions that go on forever. The police inspector states "I know what you are, Wilt. A bloody word merchant, a verbal contortionist." I'd say that describes the author pretty well - loved his word selections.
Digamos que el hombre es un animal domesticado, con elementos de salvajismo…
"Digamos que o homem é um animal domesticado com certas componentes selvagens dentro dele.""Wilt" é um livro dominado pelo humor negro e Tom Sharpe conseguiu ser maravilhosamente bem sucedido na tarefa em manter o interesse e crueldade durante uma história de mal-entendidos, caracterizada pelo absurdo (intencional ou não).Wilt é um professor de Estudos de Formação Geral, que ensina Instaladores de Gás, Estucadores, Alvenéus e Canalizadores.
Mas tem uma esposa com diversas aspirações de natureza social e picos de entusiasmo que compensam a personalidade de Wilt, pelo seu exagero.Porém, há uma coisa que Wilt tem e usa: a sua imaginação.
Pouco muitas vezes é melhor que muito poucas vezes."Depois Eva conhece uma lésbica feminista e o seu marido.
Wilt fantasises about murdering his wife, especially after she meets an odious American couple, Sally and Gaskell Pringsheim, who are into Sexual Freedom and Women’s Lib and all sorts of revolutionary new things.
Eva is “saved” in the end and she and Wilt return to their normal, comfortable existence, but partly because at some level Eva rejected Women’s Lib and what it represented.In other words, I get the feeling Tom Sharpe is not a fan of Women’s Lib. But then, he is entitled not to be a fan…literature would be very dull if we all had the same opinions…all the same, I will be reading more of Sharpe to decide whether or not I think he is a misogynist, as well as to enjoy his depictions of bureaucratic ridiculousness.
En mi opinión, tanto en cine como en literatura y especialmente en la segunda, siempre es mucho más difícil provocar una carcajada sincera que una lágrima en el espectador/lector. Este libro ofrece una gran cantidad de risas y un nivel continuo de tensión facial. Las situaciones cómicas se suceden una detrás de otra, a cuál más surrealista, y los diálogos las completan de manera brillante aportando mucha dinámica.Reseña completa y mi versión de la portada en http://sidumbledorefueralibrero.com/2...
Imagine an academic novel written by the Monty Pythons and David Lodge and you will have an idea of this wonderful bit of comic fiction.
Henry winds up in an unfortunate encounter with his host's inflatable sex doll, and Eva gets carried off by the host couple on a lost weekend in a stolen boat.
The wife, a former sex surrogate, has designs on Eva, who has no idea what in the world she is talking about.Henry's attempt to rid himself of the doll results in him being accused of Eva's murder.
Tom Sharpe tiene una forma de escribir que me ha encantado y argumentalmente, tiene todo bien atado, te muestra un trozo de papel capítulos antes de que tenga relevancia o te enseña un lugar para que sepas que está ahí antes de convertirlo en un sitio fundamental para la trama.
Esto lo valoro mucho en un escritor, nada de "Deus ex machina".Un libro corto, entretenido, desternillante, con unos personajes bien hechos que me han gustado mucho, en especial: Henry Wilt, el doctor Board y el inspector Flint.
Espero poder leer pronto más libros de Sharpe y en concreto los que continúan con Wilt.
No puedo negar que no me haya gustado.
Supongo que seguiré, porque siempre me ha costado dejar algo a medias, pero tras un amplio descanso que pueda hacerme recuperar las ganas de leer algo en clave humorística.¿Qué he aprendido?-Los libros de humor no son lo mío, pues no he conseguido encontrarlo tan desternillante como me habían prometido que sería.-El humor negro y cínico es uno de mis humores favoritos, y aún así, en formato libro se me hace difícil de digerir.-Parezco preferir libros simpáticos antes que graciosos.
(Y realmente Wilt me ha gustado más por la simpatía de sus personajes que por las supuestas "hilarantes situaciones")
The first Tom Sharpe I ever read - thanks to Ian who set me on the road to verbal perdition. This is a genius book and a hysterical read. His strengths are the use of dialogue and scene setting, both of which appear superficially normal and descend into mayhem very quickly. This was an embarrassing book to read, causing me to laugh so much I had to stop reading several times, and the theme of the underdog rising to the surface, hapless and helpless, is brilliant.
One of the funniest books I ever read. It and its sequel made me laugh out loud, as did other Sharpe books, and it's good to see it's taking on new life. Oddly, the BBC rendition, much like their Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, was surprisingly unfunny although faithful in both cases to the material.
Creo que es el mejor libro de humor que he leído nunca. Me reí muchísimo, y a todas las personas a las que se lo recomendé o regalé les gustó mucho también. Los siguientes a este libro están bien, pero nunca superarán a este primero. Me quedé con ganas de ver la adaptación a teatro.
A Cristina, sabendo do meu gosto por livros e por humor negro falou-me neste livro e acabou por o enviar pelo correio para que eu o podesse ler.
Valeu-me estar em casa da sogra e estar em familia, e o facto de que todos sabem que eu sou assim.Wilt é um professor com uma vida muito mas mesmo muito aborrecida.
Enquando Eve, a mulher, faz meditação, Wilt passeia o cão e idealiza como poderá assassinar Eve. E um dia experimenta como será assassinar Eve usando uma boneca insuflável.
Só que a policia vê o braço da boneca, no fundo dum poço e acusa Wilt de assassinar a mulher.
Ein kurzes aber großartiges Buch in dem Sharpe die Welt eines deprimiertglücklichen Berufsschullehrers aus unterschiedlichen Betrachtungswinkeln zeigt und einen durchweg entweder zum schmunzeln oder gar zum lachen verführt.
Kein einziger Seitenhieb auf das Spießbürgertum in all seinen Facetten wird dabei ausgelassen.Wenn Sharpe von "Fleisch 1" oder "Gas 3" berichtet, sieht man die Schulklassen förmlich vor sich sitzen.
Bemerkenswert ist dabei, dass das Buch wohl bereits 1976 erschienen ist sich aber in seiner Form mit aktueller, komischer Literatur durchaus messen kann und dabei in meinen Augen sehr populäre Bücher wie z.Bsp.
Y de este no esperaba nada, porque lo encontré el link al epub libro por ahí tirado.Sin destripar mucho el libro, la historia va de un pobre infeliz que quiere matar a su mujer.
Con erótico resultado.En resumen, todo lo que un degenerado como yo deseo en un libro de humor.Le doy 4 estrellas por la grata sorpresa de que no saliera rana, y el humor grueso sin complejos (parafilias, vaginas y demás menudillos) para un libro del 1976 .
Le quito la 5ª porque tiene partes de relleno que not funny at all.
Wilt es el típico hombre inglés estancado en un oficio que no le aporta reconocimiento, el típico hombre agotado de su vida, el típico hombre casado con una mujer que ama y detesta...
Esa mujer supone en este libro el punto de inflexión que genera un cúmulo de locuras y despropósitos en los que intervienen una muñeca hinchable, una pareja de americanos, la policía y un desgraciado incidente que le obliga a usar su intelecto para salir del lío en el que se ha metido por error.
Un libro con una historia llena de locuras que entretiene y aporta unas horas de lectura muy amenas.
I've seen this book on every bookshelf in every second-hand/charity shop I visited and also read some good reviews so I thought I'd part with 50 cents and see what is all about. It's a British farce, not consistently funny, and a bit over-the-top but delightful nonetheless, fast and very well written. It's about this guy who's so disappointed with his life he finds a sort of escape in daydreaming of murdering his wife. Then she disappears and naturally becomes the prime suspect. It's good fun.
Pese a que no me gustan los libros de humor, ¡me ha gustado!Es bastante surrealista todo, pero a la vez inteligente. Me ha divertido en general y tiene unos diálogos muy buenos.
I first read this book many many years ago when I was in my mid teens, and I remember loving it.
The book had me laughing like a loon several times and my heart was totally taken by Henry Wilt, the downtrodden everyman who manages to stand up to and best the establishment after a comical series of events culminate in him being arrested for a murder he didn't commit.
The highlight of the book for me where the interrogation scenes between Henry Wilt and the non nonsense policeman, Inspector Flint.
A must read for anyone wanting a good laugh.
I have now read 3 books by him, and each as good as the last if not better.
I won't get specific because I'd hate to spoil this grandiose plot.I will say, this book is not for children, nor are his others.
You'll find this a raunchy romp of evermore increasingly preposterous yet entertaining plot lines, the further in you read.
Right up to the last pages this book is sure to entertain.
The steady build of ridiculousness from beginning to end is sure to entertain all!!
Het lijkt wel een eeuw geleden dat ik dit boek voor het eerst las.
Hoewel de tijd waarin Wilt zich afspeelt lichtjaren voorbij lijkt blijft het boek overiend, door de manier waarop ermee wordt omgesprongen.
Ten tijde van het verschijnen werd auteur Tom Sharpe van alle kanten nodeloze grofheid verweten.
Met het verstrijken van de tijd is dat nu niet meer vol te houden.
Ik vermoed dat ik in de vakantie nog een keer ga grijpen naar de andere delen Wilt dit eerste opvolgden.
Henry Wilt es un hombre anodino que enseña Humanidades en una escuela de artes y oficios, pasea al perro, se siente frustrado pero vive con ello y está casado desde hace doce años con Eva en un matrimonio convencional (léase “ligeramente amargo pero sin eventos catastróficos que requieran de abogados”), pero cuando Eva hace una nueva amiga las cosas se empezarán a torcer para Wilt y su matrimonio hasta extremos inesperados que le llevarán a ser sospechoso del homicidio de su mujer.
Primer libro de la serie dedicada a las desventuras de Wilt.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?

