https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18869972-the-house-on-the-strand
Her friends who visit are equally unlikeable through Dick's eyes, although they and the children are not nearly so well fleshed out.By contrast we get a strong sense of the earlier historical characters, and du Mauriers's love of history, and of her beloved Cornwall, is given full rein here.
Each episode described is quite lengthy, so that these historical chronicles take up quite a large proportion of the novel.As Dick becomes more enmeshed in the events of the 14th Century, and more fixated on knowing what will happen, he begins to (view spoiler)[develop loyalties, and to confuse the two worlds.
I read a CRAZY-GOOD-BOOK years ago called "Blinding Light", by Paul Theroux that "The House on the Strand", reminded me of at times.
-- and GOOD!!!I 'admit' ---I liked Paul Theroux's book better a little better than Ms. Maurier --- as this book was a sloggy-slow start ...
"Blinding Light" grabbed ya by the balls immediately.....( but it 'did' get repetitive towards the end...
so it had some flaws too) ""The House on the Strand" had some very unique time-travel twists - characters that come alive - and interesting medieval history - drug trips!
Who would have thought that the words 'time travel' and 'Daphne du Maurier' would go together in one sentence?
Nevertheless this is exactly what she has written in The House on the Strand and she does it very well indeed!I loved the Cornish setting, all those places I have been and seen and which Du Maurier loved so much.
The main character time travels (or does he?) back to the fourteenth century to a place where he can observe events but cannot participate in any way.
Dick will live in Magnus's house in Cornwall and take the prescribed doses of a substance the professor has created, which will enable him to time travel.
By following Roger, Dick meets the extended Carminowe clan, which includes a very bad man named Oilver Carminowe and his very pretty wife Isolda (the family is all siblings and in-laws and even with the family tree provided at the beginning of the book, I could never quite keep the characters straight in my head).
Jucasem cum îmi cânta el, nu numai în escapadele compromițătoare din timpul anilor de studenție, ci și mai târziu, când drumurile noastre s-au despărțit, el urmându-și cariera, de biofizician și apoi de profesor la Universitatea din Londra, iar eu intrând în rutina searbădă a vieții de editură."" Stăteam treaz și mă gândeam ce scandal o să-i fac lui Magnus când o să vină.
Pentru o clipă din trecutul îndepărtat care nu avea nicio legătură cu prezentul, nu ajuta cu nimic vieții lui sau vieții mele și era tot atât de folositoare pentru lumea în care trăiam ca un album cu tăieturi din ziare, aruncat în vreun sertar prăfuit."
After all, have you ever read a du Maurier that didn’t pose more questions than it answered?We are taken into the world of Richard Young, a man who has reached a crossroads in life and is contemplating what his next step is going to be.
His best friend, Magnus, a bit of a mad scientist, has loaned Richard his home in Cornwall for vacation.
What price does it cost us when we ignore our present lives to live in the past, the future, or just dreams?
"We are all bound, one to the other, through time and eternity"While vacationing at the Cornwall home of old chum Magnus, Richard Young is convinced to act as guinea pig for his friend's latest experiment - a drug that enables the mind to travel into the past - although the body stays in the present.
Although Richard's mind is in the 14C while on the drug, his body is not and as he walks in the footsteps of those in the past it leads him into some very close calls when his mind returns to the present.
I did like the initial descriptions of the setting, the Cornish Coast, the time travel.
(view spoiler)[ when the guy said he killed the monkey (who he was also experimenting on by giving the drug to...but he didn't want to wait any longer and killed him so he could get to his brain)...I just came undone sort of.
So, not a good listen for being on the road heading out of town for funeral.
It was quite good and I really wanted to know how this book ended.
I listened to the whole thing...unable to let it go until another time.
I am really enjoying reading her books. This mixture of time travel through drugs back to 14th century is memorizing. Dick his torn between his mundane present life and the excitement of medieval Cornwall. Vita his American wife is unlikeable in comparison to Isolde and also boring. Dissatisfaction with his life leads Dick to taking the drug more and more with an ambiguous ending.
The author's depiction of how time travel could become an addiction and dissolve a modern marriage is compelling, but the most incredible thing about the novel is how the scenes set in the distant past are nothing but one big information dump that made the novel a chore to read.The story takes place along the coastline of Cornwall, where farmhouses and vacation homes stand atop the ruins of manors and churches dating back 600 years.
Richard Young, mulling the directorship of a New York publishing house that his American wife Vida has urged him to accept, is spending a week in the second home of his good friend Dr. Magnus Lane, a chemist at the University of London.
An unusual DuMaurier in that it's a time-travel novel.
I found it quite readable, but I could not make myself pay any attention to the complex relationships, housing arrangements and hierarchies of the 13th century characters--very odd, because I got the impression they were supposed to be so much more vivid and intense than the modern day characters.
I had not before encountered the idea of time travel as an effect of inherited memory combined with hallucinogenic drugs...
I liked the idea, it was believable, and yet something wasn't wholly satisfactory about the book--almost as though she didn't take the premise far enough.
This book is a wonderful time travel story.When Daphne DuMaurier had to leave her home of 25 years, Menabilly close to Gribbin Head (the model for Manderley in "Rebecca") outside of Fowey, her husband signed a lease for another house close-by owned by the same Rashleigh family who owns Menabilly.
Legend has it that this is how she got inspired to write "The House on the Strand".Tywardreath, the small town mentioned in the book "The House on the Strand", does exist in real life...it is not far away from Fowey...and there is a plate inside the church refering to the main character in another great historical novel that DuMaurier wrote, "The King's General".
Lots of craggy coasts, dense fog and and end-of-the-earth feeling) in the early 1960's (maybe the late 50's but I can't look at the title page for a date because this is an audio book), the story is about two old friends experimenting with a psychotropic drug that allows timetravel "trips." The main characters make a clear connection to LSD and the medical, academic and recreational experiments with that drug.
The drug has some side effects that only become clear later in the book and make for a chilling but interesting story.
Professor Magnus Lane wants his friend, Dick Young, to try a time-travel drug while he spends his summer at Lane's historic Cornwall home.
The hallucinogenic drug takes Dick on a "trip" to 14th Century Cornwall where he observes the upper class feuding, committing crimes, brewing sinister potions, and indulging in clandestine romances.
Dick's marriage is rocky, he has recently resigned from his London job, and feels pressured by his wife to take a job in her brother's American company.Dick has no control over his location when he returns from his "trips" back into the 20th Century.
His need for the drug, for the journey to his corner of Cornwall in the 1300's, is palpable and as clear as any drug addict's: the addiction, the high, the inevitable let-down upon return.
And just as Dick's sense of foreboding increases with each journey back, I too, feared the worst...
True to her craft, her unerring sense of human nature, of psychology, Du Maurier does not disappoint.
And here too, the marriage lacks; the real interest is to be found not with Dick's wife but with his friend Magnus and later, the physician.
Un roman très étrange, angoissant et mystérieux. Je ne l'ai pas vraiment aimé comme je peux aimer d'autres romans, avec mon coeur, puisque je ne me suis pas spécialement attachée aux personnages (la faiblesse du protagoniste m'a beaucoup agacée). Je crois en revanche que je me souviendrai très longtemps de son ambiance étouffante, dans laquelle le lecteur se sent perdu. Une expérience de lecture intéressante et pénétrante !
Lane believes this breakthrough drug has the potential to change the way humanity understands and experiences time.As Young doses himself, he finds his present-day reality (in which no one really seems to reach him) fading to the background and the fourteenth-century reality he witnesses (in which he cannot touch anyone) gaining in importance.
Du Maurier effectively traces Young's psychological descent as he takes ever greater risks to escape from his time into the past that has become his obsession.
The sense of horror and dread grows as Young muddles and confuses the two worlds.The ending -- for Young, for Lane, and for the experiment -- is perfection.Du Maurier's work is elegant and streamlined.
Daphne du Maurier wrote a novel with time travel in it and you guys didn't even tell me.
All of these things give life to the story of Richard Young and his trips into the unknown.Acting as a guinea pig for his scientist friend, Magnus, Richard Young takes part in an experiment using a drug that has been developed by Magnus.
The hallucinogenic drug takes Young back in time to the 14th century, where he quickly becomes embroiled in the lives of those he sees.
Having read it again very recently, I think that The House On The Strand is still a powerful book and would recommend it to anyone who enjoys an interesting, thought-provoking story.
3.5 stars.
Guy called Richard takes a vacation at his friend Magnus's house in Cornwall.
Two stories unwind side by side, Richard in the present, and Cornwall in the 1300s.
Most interesting part of the present-day story is thinking of its backdrop: The House on the Strand was published in the late 1960s, when people were experimenting with LSD and acid.
Then there is old Cornwall, where we are introduced to a large cast of characters, all of whom are either siblings of, married to or sleeping with each other.
And the resolution of the Cornwall story is astonishingly anticlimactic.
Ho trovato molto intrigante l’idea di base del romanzo e come la du Maurier sia riuscita a soddisfare il mio desiderio di “verosimiglianza”.
Mi è piaciuta la parte del romanzo ambientata nel presente: la Cornovaglia, il difficile rapporto matrimoniale, l’entusiasmo verso l’ignoto, la curiosità che può essere appagata solo correndo grandi rischi e che richiede ben più di un pizzico di follia.Meno riuscita è invece la linea temporale ambientata nel passato.
Quello che avrebbe potuto essere un bel romanzo storico in realtà non è riuscito ad appassionarmi.
Questo secondo aspetto credo sia stato quello che mi ha deluso di più, dopo le bellissime descrizioni di Manderley.Bello il finale, anche se resta un po’ di dispiacere per le potenzialità non sfruttate.
It helps that I grew up very close to the locations featured in The House on the Strand, and perhaps that's one of the reasons for my particular fondness for this tale of love and longing.The storyline weaves brilliantly between the twentieth and fourteenth centuries, with the hero, Dick Young, experiencing a grand passion for the unhappy Isolda, the enigmatic, medieval opposite of his mundane twentieth century wife, Vita.I recently read Margaret Forster's biography of Dame du Maurier and noted that in general Dick's character was not much liked.
The tug of war for Richard's loyalty, affection between the manipulative Magnus and Vita was believable and did keep the tension ratcheted.I found some of the relationships, characters in the medieval period to be a tad confusing at first, wasn't quite sure where they all fitted into the story overall.
I didn't feel as though they were as well presented, or as developed as the present day characters.This is written with the author's readable style and delivery and if you are a Du Maurier fan, then it certainly is a "must read".
Vow, each Maurier's book is able to surprise us even more!!! Dick Young is lent a house in Cornwall by his friend Professor Magnus Lane. During his stay he agrees to serve as a guinea pig for a new drug that Magnus has discovered in his biochemical researches. The effect of this drug is to transport Dick from the house at Kilmarth to the Cornwall of the 14th century.
A wonderful haunting tale of time travel...Highly recommended..Will surely be reading more of Daphne Du Maurier's stories..
The House on the Strand (published 1969) is the second to last novel of Daphne du Maurier.
Once taken, the drug enables Young to travel back in time to 14th century Cornwall.
Invisible to the people of the past, Young is able to observe the machinations of a small group of powerful aristocratic families.
Centuries apart, both Roger and Young are drawn in particular to the unhappily-married beauty, Lady Isolda Carminowe.
The House on the Strand is undoubtedly an offbeat novel about time travel and the strange relationship between the present and the past.
Daphne writes this story after having to move to Kilmarth.
This story has the main character Dick who time travels to the past post Crusades in the year 1335.
Daphne having had many members of her family deal with the addictive personalities dealing with alcohol & in 1967 while writing this book the drug culture.
Magnus invites Dick & family to stay at his house at Kilmarth.
Magnus is the superior of mind & ability to persuade Dick to his likings.
He entices Dick to take a drug that has one travel in the past.
Thank you Aparna for the recommendation.A time travel tale set in the 20th as.well as 14h century.
slowly and steadily Young gets psychologically embroiled in the 14th century lives of the landed gentry and their power plays.
He sort of confuses Roger, the footman who later becomes Isolde' s confidante as his alter ego.
Young' s wife and stepsons arrive, and Professor Magnus is expected soon and things muddle up further.
this story made me suspect otherwise and I found her to have lived in the 20th century .
I wish I could time travel in my spare time ( sans the problems faced by Young and Co.)
Are we observing hallucinations or a window into the past?
The pragmatist will side with the theory of chemically induced hallucinations.
The romantic will side with the spiritual, a mind is opening a window to the past.
Personally, sometimes I’m just an old softy, I like the romantic idea of a window to the past.
It was interesting that du Maurier did not let our adventures off without suffering consequence for their experimenting.
It seems as if Daphne du Maurier believed drug induced pleasures invariably cost the user more than the pleasure they provide.This is an exceptionally good story and I highly recommend it.
