https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56079.The_Winged_Watchman
The Winged Watchman is a fast-paced, exciting, children's book about how World War 2 was in Holland. Many exciting adventures happen to two young brothers in this trilling book for kids.
They liked the story a lot, but since we only had an hour to read it per week, the story was too spread out and they would forget what was going on.
This isn't the fault of the book, but because of this I don't think the ending had quite as much of an impact.
I still like the book, but this time around I noticed more about lying, etc., that is tricky to explain to kids.
There are still many wonderful parts of this story, though I'm not sure I consider it an all-time favorite any more.
I find that in a lot of van Stockum’s work and I love her for it.
Another example of a children's book that I can't believe I never read sooner. An amazing, touching story about a Dutch family in World War II, dealing with the terrible hardships but also finding so much joy and opportunities for bravery and kindness. A very emotional read. I especially appreciated this book as a vehicle for important discussions with my kids about civil disobedience, truth, hardship, and faith.
My favorite childhood book, read numerous times in grade school. This was the first book I read related to the war and I was hooked.
I love how this book helps us "experience" the last year of the war through the eyes of a 10-year-old Dutch boy: the hunger, the traitorous landwatchers, the resistance fighters, and the ordinary people who risk their lives to help others.
My children don't enjoy my sobbing as I read the end of this book, but what mother wouldn't find it heartwrenching to read about a Jewish mother surviving a concentration camp and coming back to her baby (now a 6-year-old who believes that the woman who she lives with is her mother).
A historical fiction that takes place among the windmills of Holland during World War II. It was moving but heartwarming. It was written for children, so it was light on the horrors of war, but still very realistic. How do you avoid bitterness amidst overwhelming evil? Wonderful view of family life in another culture and another time.
Thw Winged Watchman by Hildavan Stockum is an excellent book!A family living in a windmill survives the war, gradually adding people hiding from the Nazis.Perfect for children , helping them to live out the experience of being invaded that so many countries suffered in wartime.
I read this book when I was a young girl, and it was one of my favorites. I am giving it 5 stars from my young girls viewpoint. I am going to re read this one, and see what it is that made such an impact on me.
Historical fiction for kids...a charming, realistic book about World War II in the Netherlands. The story is about a Dutch family's involvement with the Dutch Resistence. Van Stockum's captivating and descriptive writing encases you in the culture, emotion and landscape.
The fact that all my relatives came from Holland may have made me a wee bit prejudiced to this book, but I LOVED it. It's a children's book but taught me a lot, nonetheless. Takes place in WW2 during the Nazi occupation of Holland. It's centered around a little family that lives in a windmill, (water pumping windmill) and their adventures and sacrifices for the war effort. I hope to get a copy for each of our Grand families.
This is viewed by many as Hilda van Stockum's best book, dealing with the difficult topic of evil in the Third Reich in a way that reaches children without creating trauma.
Two miller's sons in occupied Holland discover that a schoolmate has become a traitor, so they decide to intensify their support of the Resistance and outwit him.
This seems to be pegged at the 10-14 year old level, and fourth-fifth grades, but a lot of parents are deeply affected by the book.
(I am one of the two sons of the book's author, who died in 2006.)
A story of a windmillers family in German-occupied Holland during World War II. This book really helps you experience a lot of the pain and suffering, betrayal, attempts at resistance, and survival for a normal family during that time. I also enjoyed the moral dilemas faced by the Christian (Catholic) characters and how the dialogs addressed these - loving/hating your enemy, telling the truth vs a lie when the truth would get someone killed, harboring fugitives. This will be great reading and discussion for my kids when they study this time period.
This is a touching story told from a child's viewpoint during the German occupation of Holland in World War II. I read this aloud to my children (ages 13, 11, and 9). We were drawn into the story as if we were part of their family. We felt fearful and then courageous, apprehensive and then compassionate, shocked and then tearful, hungry and then grateful. This story teaches timeless values like compassion, bravery and patriotism through the courageous examples of mother, father, uncle and neighbor.
This story captured my interested at the beginning and held it to the end. I really enjoyed reading about like in Holland during WWII. Though life was hard, and the people suffered so much, this story shows just how strong and determined the people were to endure. The only thing I didn't care for were the times the Roman Catholic faith was put forth, the talk of praying to saints or going to confession. But these were few and could be skipped over if the story was read aloud.
This book is SUPER good. Miss Van Stockum is a sincerely good writer; she writes mostly of Jews/Germans and their adventures during the World Wars. This novel in particular is about a German girl who favors the Natzis and is a part of Natzi Youth, but then changes her mind about her opinion on Jews when she meets a certain young Rebel...
This is a great children's book about the people of Holland during World War II, and one family in particular. It was especially interesting to me since my father-in-law came to the U.S. from Holland as a young boy, shortly after the time period in which this book took place. I learned much about the people and their way of life as well as enjoying some great historical fiction!
I read this with my 11 year old son and we really enjoyed it. I had never thought about Holland during WWII and so it was very educational as well as inspiring. I hope I would be as generous and brave during such difficult times.
Shows great examples of courage and sacrifice and ingenuity. A wonderful way for children to learn about this virtues. A living book that takes one into the heart of WWII Holland, viewed through the eyes of a child.
Highly recommend this one! We are studying WWII and it has been a great look into the war from the eyes of a Dutch family in German occupied Holland. When my boys ask to keep a "school book", I know it is especially good!
This was a wonderful historical fiction told threw the eyes of a child. When learning about WWII, we often don't hear about countries, like Holland, who suffered brutally under the German occupation.
The Hail Mary..."Mary. Mary, quite contrary..." Cutest line in this wonderful book!
Books about the Netherlands during World War II are generally about the Dutch Resistance, but Hilda van Stockum has focused more on the daily experiences of one very close knit, religious family living, but without ignoring Resistance activities.
Life is hard for the Verhagen family - father, a 4th generation millwright, mother, Dirk-Jan, 14, Joris and Trixie, 4, but because they lived in a working windmill, things were not quite as hard as for others in their small village.
Set during late World War II in the Netherlands, this acclaimed story, based on the experiences of the author's relatives in Holland, is about ten year old Joris Verhagen, who lives with his father, the windmill master responsible for keeping the Rynsater polder dry, mother, fourteen year old brother Dirk Jan, and three year old “sister” Trixie who was actually the newborn child of their Jewish neighbors the Groens but was secretly given to the Verhagens when the Groens were taken away three years earlier.
“In the old days, I used to think that religion did not matter much, that people could be good without it.
I highly recommend this book for anyone who enjoys children's literature.
Hilda Van Stockum seems to know exactly the right amount of explanation to give, laying the foundation for important ideas but leaving room for kids to do some of the thinking themselves.My only complaint is that the character Trixie felt a bit false to me.
I wonder if Van Stockum tried too hard to make her cute and funny.
Trixie says funny things, but not in a way that seems realistic for a child her age.Overall, I'm very glad I read the book.
This is a book I reread annually. It is a young adult book so a quick and easy read. It is set during WW2 Holland. It is told from the view of a 10 year old boy. I am not sure where I acquired this book but it is an old library book. My copy is the 1962 publication and I like the cover better than the newer versions. Odd how a different cover can be a turn off. I want to live in a windmill.
A very good book on WWII in Holland. Gives a good view of Dutch life on the canals and around the windmills. Really enjoyed the relationship between the various family members and members in the community. My children loved it as well.
Exciting YA story about WWII occupied Holland. Set in rural Holland, this follows the Verhagen family as they navigate the difficulties of the war. Learn about landwatchers, rationing, windmills, polders & dikes, Underground resistance, etc. Full of heart and a good amount of suspense.
Meg and Rylie read this recently as part of Rylie's 4th grade history curriculum and they liked it so much they passed it on to me. It is about a boy and his family in Nazi occupied Holland and I agree it was quite good and most young readers should enjoy it.
This was a great historical fiction. We read this as a family as we studied WWII. I learn things about Holland I did not know. The story was very engaging for our children (ages 5, 9, & 12).
Current lunchtime read read aloud!
