https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18929854-all-creatures-great-and-small
What would the world be like without animals?I can't believe I've never heard of James Herriot before. He writes the most beautiful books. There's a lot I could say about this book. But I won't. I'll just say one thing. Animals are awesome, both great and small. Here are a few pictures of my babies.         I don't actually own this squirrel. She likes to sneak in, steal my vegetables, and tease my cats.
Loosely based on his experiences, these delightful tales ("drama cozies" I call them) take place in an idyllic setting: The Yorkshire Dales and the North York Moors...Muker in SwaledaleAddingham, west of HarrogateThe Cleveland Way near WainstonesThe story begins with Herriot, a newly graduated vet, arriving at the home and veterinarian practice of Siegfried Farnon and his aloof, fun-loving brother Tristan, two eccentric fellows who provide a good deal of comic relief.
These stories will satisfy lovers of animals, animal husbandry, pre-WWII veterinarian practice (an industry in flux at the time), the English countryside and Yorkshire life specifically, as well as those looking for a light taste of pastoral humor.
Now CPS is gonna come after me.)Point being: This book was NOT like that.
I could read one chapter each night, then put it down without my brain going all...
twitchy (those of you fellow addicts know what I mean...
I would be a much healthier person!Herriot doesn't really have a through-plot (thus the non-page-turner quality), but each chapter presents a new, hilarious recollection from his young veterinary days in the Yorkshire countryside.
I must have laughed out loud at some point in every chapter.
Just open the book and start reading anywhere!
Read one chapter, five, the whole thing--doesn't matter.
(Obviously, bonus points in my estimation for the number of funny drunk stories along the way.) But the best thing the book has going for it is the way that it unfailingly reinforces the simple notion that life is good.
And every time Herriot feels like a fool for choosing the arduous, unrewarding life of a country vet he breathes the fresh air and feels the sun on his face or watches a mother animal lick its newborn baby clean or gets a fresh-baked pork pie from a grateful farmer's wife and he realizes it's all worth it.
It's quite the massive collection - a lifetime's worth of books that have been lovingly and thoughtfully - or sometimes not - collected and have survived the periodic purges.Anyway, James Herriott (a pseudonym of James "Alf" Wight) was a Yorkshire veterinarian whose practice began in the 1940s (before many advances in modern medicine).
He wrote this hugely successful series of semi-autobiographical books about his many years of veterinary practice amongst the farmers and people of Yorkshire.
Herriott affectionately sketches the old Yorkshire personalities so well, and his love for animals shines through on the pages.A truly delightful read!
Not a long review because it has been years since I read this book; however, it was and still is one of my favorite books. His love for all creatures enhanced my love for them and his stories are timeless. It is a must read for anyone who loves animals and a good read for those interested in a very well-told tale.
From the first day of Herriot's arrival at Skeldale House, being greeted by a tsunami of leaping, barking dogs, to the week of tuberculin testing that brings the book to a close, we share the moments of joy, laughter, tears, nerves, confidence, mix-ups and triumphs involved in his Yorkshire veterinary practice of the 1930's.We meet the Farnon brothers and many interesting people around the Dales, not to mention wonderful animals that will live forever, just as the human characters will.
Herriot fills these pages with his love for his job, his joy for life, and his fascination with the people and animals around him.
There are no negatives in this book. When I first read it (them as I read Herriot's vet stories one book after another)I would read them late at night in bed after my wife had gone to sleep. Frequently I'd be laughing silently, but laughing so hard I'd shake the bed. Now and again I'd look over and see her just looking at me having been awakened by my convulsions of mirth. Then I'd end up reading aloud for hours...costing us both much needed rest.
I've read a lot of James Herriot's stories over my life but haven't read this first volume of his beloved series of memoirs. It is delightful, touching and often knee-slappingly funny. I highly recommend it. FYI: The audiorecording of the book is narrated by Christopher Timothy, the actor who played Herriot on the BBC series based on the books.
Not just because I know him so well in the role already – he is a warm, funny, compassionate reader, wonderful at the accents and natural in his delivery.Just like Alf Wight, better known as James Herriot.
And balancing it all out like a splash of lemon juice is Mrs. Pumphrey's chauffeur, responsible for the spasmodic bouts of exercise she penitently orders, along with the role of body servant to the dog, and he loathes Tricki with a deep and burning passion.
But then later, as an older teenager and young adult (as a university student), while the animal episodes were of course and indeed still of the utmost importance (and a main reading joy), I now also very much appreciated the nuanced characterisation of the author, of how James Herriot portrays not only himself (and always with self deprecation and even much satirisation) but ALL of the human personages depicted and shown (from Siegfried and Tristan Farnon to the many clients encountered, and for most of them, except perhaps for the truly and utterly always horrible and nasty Sidlow family, James Herriot has presented his human characters both with much love and with gentle criticism, with both tenderness and humour, including his entire courtship with his future wife Helen, where he certainly does not spare his verbal rod criticising himself and pointing out the many courtship mistakes and faux pas he makes).
As a future veterinarian growing up, I was told by many people to read this book.
Finally I did read it when I was in my junior year of college before vet school.
You have to learn to deal with people before you can help animals.
If you like slice of life books, or books about people in everyday situations but approaching life with grace and humor, you will love this book.
If you like animals, you will also enjoy this book.
I have collected the others in the series to read because I want to read more about this character, patterned after Dr. Herriot himself.
James Herriot is a wonderful story teller.
A delightful true tale of James' beginnings as a veterinary surgeon in Yorkshire in the 1930s.
The many farm animals he treated in addition to a few dogs were funny as well as heartwarming.I would estimate that about 80% of these stories involved cows or horses giving birth, and what stories they are.
Did James know during his studies how often his arms would be shoved up into a cow's hinter regions?
The human, small town stories were insightful and warm.
He had quite a way with both animals and people.
Nothing has ever been as charming, amusing, and almost magical as this series. The setting, the era, the writing style, the stories ... just lovely. I'd recommend it to any lover of animals, England, or the country.
Sale's over for this book, too. Boo.***********************************This book, the first in a series of memoirs by a Yorkshire country vet, is one of my favorite books ever. I read the whole set repeatedly throughout my childhood and, even now, I reread them every year or two. They are amazing, and this one is on sale for Kindle right now at $1.99. If you've never read James Herriot, please, please get a copy and try it on. It's the perfect thing for any animal lover. Get a copy here.
Some authors are natural born storytellers -- and James Herriot is quite possibly the greatest one of all.
Herriot makes you laugh until you cry in one chapter, and then cry for real in another, as he explores the intricacies of human nature, their affection for animals, and the peculiarities of farm animals.
It helps as a reader, a wee bit, if you've been around animals all your life, but that knowledge isn't necessary for a cracking good read.I had the wonderful experience of listening to the audio book, read by the actor who plays Herriot in the old television series.
Reading this Scottish vet's account of his life in the English countryside set my dog-loving little heart afire and I instantly decided two things: that I needed to get a dog right away and that I was going to be a vet when I grew up.
And that brings us back to the book at hand.All Creatures Great and Small was James Herriot's first book.
And, the next minute, you'll be sobbing uncontrollably at the pathos of a particularly touching tale.One of the best things about Herriot's books is that each chapter reads like its own short story, so you can always find a place to stop if you need to.
All Creatures Great and Small was recommended to me by my mother and my book club.
It took me awhile to get around to reading it because I was afraid it would be boring, but once I read it I discovered I couldn't have been more wrong.
Yes, the pacing of the story is relaxed, sometimes so relaxed I fell asleep reading it at night, hence the 4 star rating, but it's the colorful characters and stories that range from sweet to sad to hysterically funny that make this book worthwhile and keep you turning the pages.
I should start with a warning: this book contains some graphic explanations of animal anatomy and veterinary procedures that I would have preferred be left ignorant about, however the charming descriptions of idyllic country life and their inhabitants more than make up for it.
I was surprised at how funny this book is; I should have read it years ago!
My favourite episodes involve Mrs. Pumphrey and Tricki Woo. I’d recommend the audio version narrated by Christopher Timothy who does an excellent job with the different British dialect inflections.
An excellent and delightful read!
4 stars upgraded to 5 for the warm-and-fuzzy factor.
This book is well, spectacular, in a normal day way.
James Herriot had a way of showing how little annoying, silly, and/or normal everyday events are truly remarkable.
This book has those fuuny moments, embarrasing moments with those sweet ones that can only be called miracles.I have really enjoyed this book and I recomend it to everyone, whether you like animals or not (This one is different from other animal stories, because its not only about animals, but about a world of people with animals in it).
It has been a healing journey reading this and has helped me become more patient, and hopefully better to be around.Enjoy, and happy reading!~Sariah
This book is the autobiography of a veterinarian in England in 1937. The Great Depression had gripped the world and Hitler was rising to power in nearby Germany.Despites these dire circumstances, the book shows lots of tremendous humor. love for animals and compassion for the fellow man.One chapter really stood out and was worthy of Charles Dickens, himself. An elderly, poor man had to put his dog down and the veterinarian did it as painless as possible as the two men bonded together- -a BRILLANT BOOK-don't miss it-highly recommended to everyone !!
Que libro tan sencillo, enternecedor, y a la vez, divertido (algunas anécdotas me han hecho reír a carcajadas). Me encanta su atmósfera, sus descripciones, sus personajes.... Creo que seguiré con la vida de este veterinario en un pequeño pueblo inglés
These are all described in detail and yet in an uncomplicated manner.A masterful writer and astute observer, James Herriot's can spin an amusing yarn that can make you laugh out loud and then bring you back down to earth with sensitive accounts of loss, hardship and the indomitable spirit of the farmers.His series of books are a genuine treasure and quite possibly my all time favourites (next to "To Kill A Mockingbird").
Most people know by now that James Herriot wrote about his life as a country vet in the 1930s and ‘40s.
So last summer, on our trip to England, we spent a few nights in Thirsk (known as “Darrowby” in his books) and we visited the Herriot museum (“The World of James Herriot”).
The museum is the actual surgery where the stories take place.
The owners grew up knowing James Herriott, who lived down the street with his family.
This is the centre of Thirsk, where James Herriot first entered.
I fell in love with this place.
An interesting and humorous piece but would have love it more had it been am younger...I give 3 star.
Those of a certain age will remember the popularity of these books and the spinoff TV series.
I recently happened across mention of James Herriot and thought I would engage in some nostalgia.This book is a model of memoir.
I now appreciate more than in my youth why these books were so popular.
His wonderful language and masterful timing wring every ounce of pathos, tragedy (and more than a few belly laughs) out of the material.Christopher Timothy, the narrator has a natural bent for the main character due to his years playing him in the TV series, however shows himself to be an outstanding reader, performing all the actors with aplomb.A wonderful experience to listen to and a superb book to revisit.
Book on CD read by Christopher Timothy This is the book that launched a successful series of memoirs of a Yorkshire country vet in the years before World War II.
I first read it back in the early 1970s when it was a fairly new book.
I probably bought it as a “book-club” selection from Book of the Month or Literary Guild or some other similar organization.
I remember that I really loved it, and would probably have given it 4 stars (or possibly even 5 stars).
Christopher Timothy does a great job of performing the audiobook.
In the early haze I looked over the countless buttercups; the field was filled with them and it was like sitting in a shimmering yellow ocean.” “The case was simple enough—a cow with an infected eye—but the farm was in a village high up the Dale, and when we finished, it was dusk.
He liked it on his face best and as I worked my way up from the tail and along the steaming back he would turn his nose full into the water, rocking his head from side to side and blinking blissfully.” (How I loved this image!) “Through May and early June my world became softer and warmer.
I had always been curious about this book, because there was such a great fuss over it that persisted well into my life (it was written shortly before I was born).
Well, the fuss is all true - this is one of the best books I have ever read - an autobiography, technically, about a simple man who loves his job.
Not only is he a good author, but he is perhaps the best observer of people I have ever seen - he can make 20 english farmers all seem different.
Truly a book that will still be around 100 years from now.
I should maybe bump this up to five stars, because I could see this going down as one of my favorites. I was so utterly and completely charmed by this book. Alternately laugh out loud funny and poignant to the point of tears, this book has a magical concoction of sweetness and grit. Plus, great storytelling and larger than life characters. I loved it!
