https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/545911.Beard_on_Bread
I never think to add cookbooks to my list but when I saw this on a friend's I knew I had to add it to mine. I've had this for years and absolutely love Beard's zucchini bread (has lots of cinnamon). When I was young and not very bright cooking-wise, and had no fancy cooking equipment, I followed the directions as written. Peel the zucchini then shred it. Have you ever tried to shred water? Well, let's just say I never peeled the zucchini after that first time.
I bought this book when it was first published in the early 1970s. It remains one of my favorites. Beard's recipe for gingerbread is still my all-time favorites.

I particularly hovered over the introduction leading into the basic white bread recipe which contained detailed, concise, and friendly information qualified to send you on your merry way and keep you merry as you go.
This included such information as why your bread may not have turned out the way you hoped it would, how to make it turn out differently next time, and how to greatly enjoy even a substandard loaf of homemade bread.I have not tried all of the recipes contained in this book, but the ones I have tried I've enjoyed and learned from and many others greatly interest me.
This is a great book for anyone learning to bake bread - it even has a troubleshooting guide!I have a number of favorite recipes in here that I have made many times, among them the George Lang's Potato Caraway Bread, Jane Grigson's Walnut Bread from Burgundy, Dill Batter Bread, Sally Lunn, and more.
For buttered rye bread, or thin sliced bavarian rye with cream cheese and lox, do it.
For crumpets with butter, jam and tea on a rainy day, do this book.
If you long for the kind of fluffy, buttermilk yeast pancakes that stack and heave with real butter and honey or maple syrup, absolutely you want this book.
I love this book so much, that I rarely buy store-bought bread at all any more.
I can think of no reason a person who loves bread would not enjoy reading this book.For the brioche dough recipe alone, which I use to make a delectable kosher pizza, this book is indispensable.
I was cruising around my local thrift store, when I stumbled across this book. I hadn't heard of Beard, but love bread and was enchanted with the cover. I love this book! Beard includes great recipes, along with his insights about bread - what to pair breads with, how long they will keep, and how to preserve them. His book is as satisfying and as comforting as taking home-made bread out of the oven :) I like his apricot-walnut bread the most and am looking forward to baking some of the other recipes.
“Beard on Bread” is a great collection of timeless recipes with a loving yet straight forward introduction to the art of bread baking from, of course, James Beard. Even without knowing the legacy of The Beard Foundation this is a wonderful little book for any baking enthusiast. (I've page marked at least a third of the recipes for future baking practice.) Perfect for the novice for its straight forward instructions and informative foundation, and perfect for the professional as a well-loved vintage collection.
I re-read this classic cookbook last week and enjoyed doing so. There are no flashy artistic culinary photos, only simple line drawings. What stands out here is the writing. The recipes are not simply lists of steps and ingredients. Beard walks the reader through the process of baking bread, allowing you to understand why each step is necessary to the final result. I was inspired to try out two recipes, and both loaves were excellent. Recommended!
Fantastic book on bread-baking. It takes you from a simple white loaf to ryes, egg breads, tea breads and rolls. I was impressed by the variety of recipes, from yeast breads to baking powder and fruit breads. In fact, I impressed enough to actually buy my own copy instead of just taking it out from the library.
No doubt about it.This is what I used to learn how o bake bread,oh so may years ago. I'm sure there are bigger and better books by now. King Arthur Flour book comes to mind as efficient and detailed. And l Have and like it too. But I don't care. This is nostalgically my favorite bread book. Try the continental loaf recipe first. that will get you going.
One summer in college, I was unemployed for 3 weeks. I picked up this book and taught myself to make bread. My father was actually sad when I found myself a job. A special place in my heart goes to the sour cream white bread.
I may be spoiled by more recent cooking/baking books that have photographs and shiny pages, or maybe I was expecting more from Beard. I just didn't feel compelled to jump up and bake anything from recipes in this book.
This is a cookbook, unlike many I own, where I have made at least 80% of the recipes, and found them all to be favorites. The Banana Nut Bread, for example, is a gem. This is my goto book anytime I've got a need for homemade bread.
Beard takes you through all the steps of baking a wonderful loaf of bread. He explains the "chemistry" of bread baking as well as what went wrong when you don't get a perfect loaf and how to correct the problem.I got this book when I was first learning to bake and never regretted it.
I like to make my own bread so decided this would be a good book to review. Good suggestions and interesting recipes. Because I have not tried any at this point, it is too early to rate their quality.
I've been learning to bake bread through recipes my teacher has pulled from this book. Her copy is, of course, dog-eared and old and many notes. A book worth learning from. Beard's explanations and directions are clear and readable.
Recommended from the Martha show. It is a classic bread book.
This is another bread book I've owned since I came of age, during the heady flower-child era. Traditional breads, with yeast, but always discussed with that manner that James Beard possessed.
This is my bread machine bible until I learn the recipe and then I play around with them to create my own versions!EXCEPT for my Challah!
The master chef James Beard has put together a collection of recipes for bread along with detailed instructions.
An excellent book on bread baking; a classic from the Master.
This book gave me a really good overview on bread recipes. By no means is it a professional tutorial on the subject, but I like that Beard is more of a everyman's sort of baker.
I think this gets such a high rating from me since it is THE bread book my mother used to make all our bread when we were growing up.
The best bread cookbook ever.
A real find if you want to know more about the art of baking bread. The recipes are tasty and easy for a beginner bread maker.
I just needed to let you all know that this book has the best banana bread and zucchini bread recipes ever.
Love this book!
One of my go-to books for making bread.
I've owned this book for a little over 25 years. Beard is very thorough and easy to follow. The banana bread recipe in this is my favorite and the book pops open to the recipe automatically.
