https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/332613.One_Flew_Over_the_Cuckoo_s_Nest
I watched it float downstream: a tiny dot weaving through the rippling reflections of the city lights, until it finally sank below the surface.I tell you this story because, in a way, throwing that bag of stuff off the bridge is the best analysis I can make of Kesey's book.So much has been said before, what else can I say?Chuck Palahniuk summed it up nicely in the forward for the Penguin Classics Deluxe Edition.
He explains that "'Cuckoo's Nest' tells the same story as the most popular novels of the last century," it focuses on the modern paradox of trying to be human in the well-oiled machine of a capitalist democracy, where you must be either a savior or a slave.
Kesey has drawn an epic clash between chaos and order and did so within the halls and bleached clean walls of an insane asylum.Though I could not help picturing Jack Nicholson as McMurphy while reading this, Kesey’s McMurphy is really described more like Charles Dickens’ Fagan, a red headed trickster, and perhaps in mythic terms he is Coyote, or Loki, he is THE TRICKSTER GOD, he is that opposing force that makes the orderly way of the universe stronger.“Rules?
McMurphy’s friendship with Chief (an erstwhile chronic) and his championing of the acutes status is a central theme of the book.“What do you think you are, for Chrissake, crazy or somethin'?
Basically, the plot seems to involve men mentally castrated by a domineering woman who could just as easily be labeled "Bitch" as she could "Big Nurse." Enter main character--who, in my tattered, yellow-paged, 70's copy, directly labels him as "the hero of [the book]" on the back cover--a man that pretty much shakes the men up to the supposed feminization of American culture and how it's destroying their identities as males.
(Read here: a huge characterization of the male ego is to dominate the female with opposites all around.)How is this man so easily labeled a hero?
My friend Ed was recently updating his books with reviews on here and this book popped up in my feed. It's my husband's favorite movie/book of all time and I realized that I had never picked the book up. I've watched bits and pieces of the movie in the three thousand times that my husband has watched it, but I had never experienced it first hand.I'm gutted.Why have I not just sat down and watched the film that was made from this book? I'm completely off my rocker. Randle Patrick McMurphy. That g
It's my husband's favorite movie/book of all time and I realized that I had never picked the book up.
I've watched bits and pieces of the movie in the three thousand times that my husband has watched it, but I had never experienced it first hand.I'm gutted.Why have I not just sat down and watched the film that was made from this book?
He makes them back into the men that they were.I wanted to reach over and touch the place where he was tattooed, to see if he was still alive.
I love both the book and the movie, both for completely different reasons.
In the movie, Jack Nicholson's R.P. McMurphy is the main focus, whereas in the book Chief Bromden (the narrator) plays a much bigger role, which is almost entirely neglected in the movie.
Reading the book from Chief's perspective added a whole new layer to the story, what with his backstory and hallucinations.
I watched the movie for the first time not too long ago and I LOVED IT.
therefore I figured it was worth giving the book another try.
I just watched an interview with Stephen Fry and he mentioned this book. Read it a long long time ago. Read it for highschool already I think. Remember being shocked and amazed. Scary, funny, dark and wonderful at the same time. Un-be-lievable. And I just realized this is one of the best and impressive books I ever read. Definitely a top tenner ever.
This means the majority of readers are familiar with one or the other and I thought a very brief review would be enough; something along the lines, "The book is very good".
A ward of a mental hospital in Oregon was ruled by an iron hand of its head nurse Ratched.
I really did not want to use the movie stills in my review as countless other people did it in theirs, but I also thought it is impossible to talk about the book without mentioning the movie.
If the Nurse is a villain how comes there is no other strong woman on a good side?
loved this.One of my favourites.
The funny antics incorporated in the brilliant performance of Jack Nicholson gave an interesting and comedic taste to the movie eclipsing or diluting, in my opinion the book’s wake-up shocking message – that some mental wards are not designed to cure their patients but rather serve as instruments of oppression.
So, he, Ken Kesey (1935-2001) knew and probably experienced some of these things.One can get lost in amazement reading (book) or watching (movie) McMurphy and Nurse Ratched especially with their Oscar-worthy performances.
I first read this book in 2007 after I became a daytime outpatient at Our Lady of Peace, my city's mental health facility.
Somehow this book and movie, and especially the character of McMurphy, was how my dad related to me during this trying time.
Reilly Got me thinking of my dad asking his McMurphy how Ms. Ratchett was today.
I’ve been reading various other mental health books lately, and sadly some things never change as advanced medicine has become.
Very few books hold my heart through years as this one does.

Does the rabbit live in a hole because the wolf decided so?
What happens when the rabbit decides to challenge the wolf?Such thoughts are provoked by this widely read and loved classic novel.
Meeting Mc Murphy (the rabbit that challenged the wolf) felt like listening to the wisest philosophy teacher explaining juicy stuff about life with expertise, wit and charm and reading the story in the perspective of Chief Bromden, a patient feigning deafness made it even more interesting.
The demoralizing climax added insult to injury and ultimately the reason I went for two stars.
میشل فوکو در کتاب مراقبت و تنبیه، به بررسی راههایی میپردازد که جوامع افراد هنجارگریز را مجازات میکند. در فرانسهی سلطنتی، برای مثال، مجرمان در منظر عموم شکنجه و اعدام میشدند، و کتاب با شرح جزئیات وحشتناک مجازات کسی که در سال ۱۷۶۷ به خاطر اقدام علیه جان شاه محکوم شده بود آغاز میشود. فوکو بی درنگ این شرح را در کنار فهرستی از مقررات کانون بازپروری نوجوانان بزهکار در میانهی قرن ۱۹ می گذارد. قوانین به دقت توضیح میدهند که زمان آنها چطور باید تقسیم شود: ساعت شش بیداری، پنج دقیقه برای تعویض لباس در سکوت،
اگر اعدام در منظر عموم شیوه‌ای آشکار برای حکومت بود تا قدرت بی‌رحمانه‌ی خود را در مجازات کسانی که استیلایش را به چالش کشیده بودند نمایش دهد، این کانون بازپروری به نظر بسیار انسانی، با مدارا، و سازنده است.
اما کدام یک از این دو رژیم فضای بیشتری برای مقاومت در اختیار می‌گذارند؟ فوکو بحث می‌کند که طنز ماجرا همین جاست.مجرمانی که در منظر عموم مجازات شده‌اند، اگر شجاعانه رفتار کنند، گاهی به قهرمانان مردم تبدیل می‌شوند و ترانه‌های عامیانه‌ای به جانبداری از آن‌ها، داستان‌شان را دهان به دهان بازگو می‌کند.
436. One Flew Over The Cuckoo’s Nest, Ken KeseyOne Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (1962) is a novel written by Ken Kesey. Set in an Oregon psychiatric hospital, the narrative serves as a study of the institutional processes and the human mind as well as a critique of behaviorism and a celebration of humanistic principles. Bo Goldman adapted the novel into a 1975 film directed by Miloš Forman, which won five Academy Awards.عنوانها: پرواز بر فراز آشیانه فاخته؛ دیوانه از قفس پرید؛ نویسنده: کن کیسی؛ تا
Bo Goldman adapted the novel into a 1975 film directed by Miloš Forman, which won five Academy Awards.عنوانها: پرواز بر فراز آشیانه فاخته؛ دیوانه از قفس پرید؛ نویسنده: کن کیسی؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز ششم ماه اکتبر سال 2005 میلادیعنوان: پرواز بر فراز آشیانه فاخته؛ نویسنده: کن کیسی؛ مترجم: سعید باستانی؛ تهران، نیل، 1355؛ در 332 ص؛ چاپ دوم 1357؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، هاشمی؛ 1384؛ در 368 ص؛ شابک: 9647199090؛ عنوان: دیوانه از قفس پرید؛ نویسنده: کن کیسی؛ مترجم: امیر اسماعیلی؛ تهران، توسن، 1368؛ در 170 ص؛داستان در بیمارستانی روانی، در ایالت اورگن آمریکا می‌گذرد؛ و حاوی نگاهی به ساختارهای قدرت، در سازمانهاست.
این رمان نخستین بار در سال 1963 میلادی بصورت نمایشنامه درآمد، اما برداشت بسیار مشهورتر از آن، فیلم «دیوانه از قفس پرید» است که در سال 1975 میلادی، با کارگردانی میلوش فورمن، و بازی جک نیکلسون، بر اساس همین داستان، ساخته شده‌ است.
“All I know is this: nobody’s very big in the first place, and it looks to me like everybody spends their whole life tearing everybody else down.”- Ken Kesey, One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s NestThis is a book I had little interest in reading. A novel set in an insane asylum? No thanks. I spent four years of my legal career defending indigent clients facing commitment before our local Board of Mental Health. It was an experience I had not trained for, prepared for, or frankly could have imagined befo
“All I know is this: nobody’s very big in the first place, and it looks to me like everybody spends their whole life tearing everybody else down.”-	Ken Kesey, One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s NestThis is a book I had little interest in reading.
McMurphy, a red-haired Steve McQueen-type with a personality disorder, who shows up on the ward and engages in an epic battle of wills with the Nurse Ratched, a.k.a., the “Big Nurse.”(Side note: I watched the movie after reading the book.
One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest unfolds episodically, with Ratched and McMurphy trading figurative blows, notching both victories and defeats as they struggle for the soul of the other patients.
Because all I could think about while reading, was him:and, her:and, of course, this guy:It's a case of a brilliant movie sucking the life out of its original source.
I have to admire the story he told, which, in 1962, shone a very important light on abuse of power and misuse of treatment in mental health facilities.But, all my "feels" were felt about 20 years ago, watching the fabulous movie version on a rented VHS tape, on a square shaped television, with my dad.
Surprisingly, not a lot felt in the literary version.
In their fight for dominance the inhabitants of the ward begin to understand a little something about personal freedom and the part they have been entrusted to play in the well-oiled machine of the ward.The casual racism and the horrific treatment of the psychiatric patients was so hard to read about, but was a necessary evil in delivering the power inherent in this tale.
Without the reader garnering a deep understanding about the horrors that abound on a psychiatrist ward and the norms that were accepted during this time period, this would not have remained such an influential, relevant and much-studied text.It was interesting that a perspective was garnered through the eyes of one of the patients.
My favorite line in the novel, when Chief Bromden (the paranoid schizophrenic narrator) says, "But it's the truth, even if it didn't happen," sets the reader up from the very beginning for a story in which one's perception of situations more accurately reflects the truth than the outward appearance of things.
One of the coolest things about the book is that it is told from the point of view of a paranoid schizophrenic; to do this in a film would be incredibly challenging and more likely to turn out cheesy than insightful and revealing (as it is in the novel).
Human mind is a Savage Garden, ако мога да перифразирам Ан Райс.„Но докато говореше, задните светлини на отминаващите ни коли осветиха лицето на Макмърфи и предното стъкло отрази едно изражение, което той си беше позволил само защото смяташе, че е прекалено тъмно и не се вижда – страхотно изморено, напрегнато и неистово отчаяно, сякаш не му е останало време да направи нещо, което е трябвало да направи…“И въпреки всичко Мак продължава да се бори.
Отказва да остави своите луди приятели(view spoiler)[, които всъщност не са луди (hide spoiler)], защото е отговорен за тях.
I thought this was one of the best books I had ever read years ago. (just could not stop thinking of it)....THEN....I went to see the stage play in S.F. (young maiden in High School) -- Powerful Classic!
It was vulgar and uncomfortable and, definitely, controversial at the time of its publishing - but, man, was it  a complex, mind-numbing, page-turner of a story, questioning freedom and confinement in our society, and set in an psychiatric hospital - a setting often neglected in literature.
This was truly a great, great book, that I recommend.
Forget perfect characters, sunny settings, and 'kind sir's and ma'ams'; this story was packed to the brim with complications, grit and a strange mixture of humor and darkness, with an ending that will leave you...
Brillant, and thought provoking, this was a knock out of a book.
In fact, I think it's the most coherent criticism I've ever seen of One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, and does a wonderful job of subverting the message.
Throughout most of the movie, you are indeed tricked into seeing the world through Winona Ryder's eyes: she's a free spirit, who's been incarcerated in a mental hospital despite the fact that there is absolutely nothing wrong with her.
She'd somehow missed this important fact.Much as it pains me to say it, I suspect that Winona Ryder might be right and Jack Nicholson might be wrong.
Ratched Up: A Spectacle of the PowerLiterature May Provide One's Ebullition against Oppression "I remember when, I remember, I remember when I lost my mindDoes that make me crazy?Does that make me crazy?Does that make me crazy?"Gnarls Barkley, Crazy, 2006.For me, this novel is the monotypic iconoclastic novel illustrating the evils of unbridled government oppression in the institutional forms of a democracy, both subtle and ruthless.  One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest  evinces the fortisimmo force
Ratched Up: A Spectacle of the PowerLiterature May Provide One's Ebullition against Oppression "I remember when, I remember, I remember when I lost my mindDoes that make me crazy?Does that make me crazy?Does that make me crazy?"Gnarls Barkley, Crazy, 2006.For me, this novel is the monotypic iconoclastic novel illustrating the evils of unbridled government oppression in the institutional forms of a democracy, both subtle and ruthless.
Kesey personifies The Combine in Nurse Ratched, a hellhag who uses a bagful of disciplinary tactics, most so subtle that the mental patients can't see they're being controlled and some so heinous it's unimaginable they could be used as a punitive measure without some sort of due process (e.g., electroshock "therapy" and lobotomy).The novel is, by turns, infuriating, intelligent and hilarious.
Little does he know he’s going to meet his biggest match in the ward’s Big Nurse, Miss Ratched.2.
There are a lot of secondary characters, and gradually they come into focus, especially Dale Harding, a well-educated man with a sexually frustrated wife (he’s quite possibly gay); Billy Bibbit, a stuttering man who seems much younger than his 31 years and whose mother is a good friend of Nurse Ratched; and Doctor Spivey, the ward’s rather spineless physician who gradually gains confidence, like the rest of the patients, after McMurphy’s arrival.
Painful and heartbreaking to witness humanity's struggle to have a decent life while living within the boundaries others set for them. Not to be a rabbit, that is the ultimate goal!
absolutely 5/5
I think now it feels very much like a period piece, an experience of the late Beats to early hippie sixties, from On the Road with the Merry Pranksters to Woodstock, or to maybe something Kesey realized Woodstock would never deliver.
Now I read Randle as, yes, a symbol of Freedom and Nature and Laughter vs Ratched's sterile Institutional authority, but now not so innocent, as I realize I think about myself.
The BIG Nurse (nickname), explained that she was someone that needed to be noticed because her name was of high importance.
The Black Boys was an insulting name, so that means those characters are the lowest of the employees.
And the list goes on and on for employees.
I was surprised by the sexual comments and remarks in the book.
In the army people ranked higher than him looked down on him.
We look at their hurdles instead of their accomplishments and skills.All, in all, I am very surprised this is the first time that I had read this book.
"It's the truth even if it didn't happen.”
Abbiamo il diritto di giudicare la normalità di qualcun altro?Qualcuno volò sul nido del cuculo è un bellissimo romanzo (da cui è stato tratto un bellissimo film) che descrive un gruppo di malati di mente in un ospedale psichiatrico.
E, come in ogni ospedale del genere, chi entra perché dichiarato malato di mente (può avere malattie mentali ma anche semplicemente non essere allineato con la normalità corrente) perde ogni diritto.
Invece no, voi non siete più pazzi della media dei coglioni che vanno in giro per la strada, ve lo dico io!"Cosa può fare l'integerrima Capo Infermiera ("A volte penso che tutte le infermiere nubili dovrebbero essere licenziate quando arrivano ai trentacinque anni") se non ripristinare il "suo" ordine?
