https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/120566.The_Vintage_Bradbury
A man from Earth visits Ylla on Mars and she yearns for a different life.
The Fox and the Forest is about a couple who try to escape the future and are chased by the authorities as they try to live in the past.I think I would put Bradbury in the Fantasy category just ahead of science fiction.
I wonder what it would have been like to read them during the time they were written rather than a half century later.And I read on the cover of the book the phrase that very aptly describes the stories: speculative fiction.
I like that better than fantasy and more than science fiction.
There was not a single short story in this collection that I did not like.
Each had such original characters with such intense emotions.
It was as if the ending was never what I expected, or it might have been that I just so caught up in the story that each ending was perfectly completed.What I loved most about this book was the originality of the stories.
Bradbury has to be admired for the risks he took in writing many of the stories as they are not safe or usual.
I'd like to be a writer that takes the kind of chances Bradbury does.
This is the book that got me hooked on everything Bradbury.
My high school creative writing teacher introduced me to Ray Bradbury with Zen in the Art of Writing.
I liked it, so I figured I'd go out and find some of his fiction.
(I had already read Fahrenheit 451, but I think I was too young when I read it for it to make a real impact on me) I found this book on the shelves at the local bookstore, read it, and have been devouring everything by Bradbury that I can get my hands on.
my favourite of his collections. This is the one he signed for me while we had a nice private chat in Brentano's. Paris, 6/5/95. A treasure & eternal inspiration.
So each story makes the others suspenseful, because you never know when the story might take a turn for the surreal or turn out to be not what you thought.There are some themes that reappear: technology and family life, little boys on their sick/death bed, carnivals and freaks, children as strange, ruthless, and parasitical, tourism and its discontents.I think the one that sticks with me most right now is "The Fox and the Forest": a couple tries to escape the endless war of the future by going back in time--not to change anything, just to live.
I decided to catch up on some old favorites and to discover some new stories after hearing about Ray Bradbury's recent passing.
Here are some of my favorite passages:From the short story Hail and Farewell:An old woman reflects on the kids she sees passing by her porch every day: "I look at all the little children's faces g oing by.
I guess that's what I miss most in older folks, the eagerness gone nine times out of ten, the freshness gone, so much of the drive and life down the drain."I was thinking these same thoughts (sans poetry quote) the other day while watching my kids playing - but not as eloquently.The Fox and the Forest:"We were born in the year 2155 A.D. And we lived in a world that was evil.
I will confess that my reading of Bradbury has been limited to Fahrenheit 451—a great book, to be sure, but hardly typical of the man's skills as a writer.
But I am trying to expand my horizons, and to this end I picked up a copy of this short story collection while on a booking stop at a store not far from Big South Fork.
It took a while for me to get to it, but once I did…wow!Essentially this is a "best of the best" circa mid sixties picked by Bradbury himself, stories he considered of merit in one way or another.
I didn't mention the holographic lions.
After reading Fahrenheit 451, I was decided; Ray Bradbury is my new favourite author.
After scrolling through his quotes on this grand ol' site, I found that I loved a couple that came from Dandelion wine.
Even more Bradbury than I had anticipated.I'll admit, some of the stories disturbed me.
Despite some of the gruesome ends, I still loved the voice and structure of the stories.
Who else could make me throw down the book and gasp upon reading the ending?
Ray Bradbury is an extraordinary writer, and this collection was just proof of what paths he has paved for writers, sci-fi and others.
Having only read Fahrenheit 451 before, I enjoyed reading this collection of short stories by Bradbury.
Although there was some great speculative fiction in this collection, some that could easily be described as science fiction, there were also stories that are best described as Americana fantasy.
A great read for anyone who likes short stories, mysteries, fantasies, and science fiction.
I really enjoyed this.
I'm not even much of a SciFi nerd (well like, I enjoy SciFi but nowhere near to the point of hardcore actual SciFi fans) and I really liked most of the stories in here.
It was a good sidetrack from the stuff I usually read.
I'm not even usually a big short-story reader, so this was new for me and I wasn't sure whether I would like it.
So I guess I'd say take the gamble and check it out because Ray Bradbury is a good writer and has his accolades and reputation for a reason, I promise.
His books and the stories he weaves don't really fall into one of the genres mentioned here, and speculative fiction describes it really well.
Also, he is one of the favourite authors and childhood influences on Neil Gaiman (also one of my favourite authors) and he writes at length about Bradbury in his latest non-fiction book "View from the cheap seats".
In this book, Gaiman describes rather beautifully the kind of wide-eyed wonderment with which he used to read stories by Bradbury in pulp-scifi magazines.
I have already read a few books by Bradbury (Fahrenheit 451, Martian chronicles, and the Illustrated man) and this collection of his short stories is the cherry on top of them all.
A lot of people describe him in different ways - some people say he's a science fiction writer, others (like on the back of this book) say he's "the cousin of magical realists." I'd definitely agree with science fiction bit and after reading this collection of short stories, I'd put him in the category of Chuck Palahniuk and Kurt Vonnegut - two of my favorite authors.
Furthermore despite the dark themes his stories explore, I think his style of writing is beautifully poetic and structured in such a way that even traditional literature lovers will appreciate it - but perhaps in smaller doses than the more sci-fi inclined readers.
Every story - save one (I'll let you find out which yourself) - was a gem of fantasy, intrigue, and mystery. The final tale, especially, was not only perfectly final, but left you with a sense of wonder and loss at the same time. Definitely a masterpiece!
Unfortunately, due to the current lack of time I could only read a few of the stories in this very impressive collection. The Veldt is, of course, amazing, but any of them take my breath away by their poetry, irony, suspense, and humanity. I definitely need to get back to this
Every time I read Bradbury I am awestruck by his poetic use of language, his vivid and colorful imagery, his sheer joy in the tales he spins for our delectation and his own amusement.Among my favorites:The Fruit At The Bottom Of The Bowl was an old friend who had stayed with me for many years.
The lions, feeding, is an image that lingered for years.The Illustrated Man is still as striking and unnerving as the first time my teenage self encountered it.A new-to-me story was The Wonderful Ice Cream Suit.
A book full of short stories that challenge the mind and stretch the imagination. I was at times both fascinated and disgusted at Bradbury's views human nature.
Much smaller in size than some of the other Bradbury short story tomes, this book (which I found years ago at the recently shuttered and already missed used bookshop on Franklin Street) contains only 26 stories, but the greats are all here.
But the story is really about isolation, loss, and loneliness.
Every note in this story is perfect, from the building tension, to the narrator’s stunned reaction when the enormous beast fully emerges from the water: "I don’t know what I said.
I said something." Also included are classics such as "The Veldt," "The Fox and the Forest," "Skeleton," "Kaleidoscope," and "There Will Come Soft Rains."
I came the long way around on Ray Bradbury.
Regardless of how I got here, though, I'm happy that the wealth of literature from this amazing man is with me forever.I'm also happy my present and future students will together share in "The Veldt" and "The Fog Horn," hopefully leading at least one of these young people to seek out Bradbury's contemporaries as well as the authors his works inspired.Even though I came the long way around, it'll never be too late for the inspired minds of generations to come.
In short, Bradbury's short stories are quite refreshing in all of their eeriness; there is a deep and haunting psychological element to all of his short works, which make his work all the more thrilling. Bradbury makes absurd relationships between humans and forms of evil or non-human forms (i.e. a newborn to an assassin or neighbors to mice), but accomplishes this gracefully and very naturally so as to make plots work. My favorites include strangely "The Small Assassin" (utterly intriguing!), "There Will Come Soft Rains," "Medicine for Melancholy," and "The Illustrated Man" just to name a few!
Contents:The Watchful Poker Chip of H. MatisseThe Velda Hail and FarewellA Medicine for Melancholy The Fruit at the Bottom of the BowlYllaThe Little MiceThe Small AssassinThe Anthem SprintersAnd the Rock Cried OutInvisible BoyNight MeetingThe Fox and the ForestSkeletonDandelion Wine •Illumination  • Dandelion Wine •Statues •Green Wine for Dreaming Kaleidoscope Sun and Shadow The Illustrated ManThe Fog HornThe DwarfFever DreamThe Wonderful Ice Cream SuitThere Will Come Soft Rains
I have read all of the stories in this collection before, but there are some classics in here, including "The Fog Horn," "Skeleton," "The Wonderful Ice Cream Suit," and a few selections from the full-length books "The Martian Chronicles" and "Dandelion Wine."Perhaps because of the recent events in the Middle East, I was especially struck this time through by the stories "And the Rock Cried Out" and "Sun and Shadow." If you've never read Bradbury before, this is not a bad place to start; it's a great primer on his short fiction.
Like the best futurists, from Kurt Vonnegut to David Bowie, Bradbury keeps his visions of the future bound to the implications of our present: These fantastic and often horrifying tales of space travel and isolation, technology and malaise, wondrous human advances that seem somehow to deprive us of our humanity all ache with a real melancholy. Not all Bradbury collections are created equal, but this is a really fine one, with numerous classics, a few undervalued gems, and only a couple that didn't capture my interest.
This is my all-time favorite Ray Bradbury collection -- yes, even over "The Illustrated Man" which I also adore. It is also one I would highly recommend to "ew I don't do science fiction" people, since it has a high proportion of suspense/mystery stories. Anyway. It is Bradbury's choices of his favorites as of 1965, and he chooses some of my favorites as well: "The Veldt," "The Fruit at the Bottom of the Bowl," "The Small Assassin," and "There Will Come Soft Rains."
This doesn't have A Sound of Thunder -- did it only become his best-known story post-1965? -- but otherwise this is a pretty solid best-of. Included are some of his perversely imaginative horror stories: a new mother convinced her baby wants to kill her, a hypochondriac frightened to know he's got a skeleton inside him, a fever with a mind of its own. And it's got The Veldt, The Fog Horn and There Shall Come Soft Rains.
Here's the most important thing to note about this book...it's a collection of short stories. That being said I hope the five star review will be clear. not every story will hit home and make you think. However, a vast majority did. I am hard pressed to call Bradbury a true science fiction writer. If you are looking for philosophy written eloquently in the musings of science fiction; I implore you to read this book and get lost in the mind of a true, American bred genius.
This is a great collection of Bradbury stories. My favorites include The Veldt, The Fruit at the Bottom of the Bowl, The Small Assassin, And the Rock Cried Out, Kaleidoscope, and The Fog Horn. I love how great Bradbury is at eliciting a particular feeling during the course of his short stories. I've never had this good of a reaction a writer's short stories before.
Ray Bradbury is amazing. He wrote so many short stories, far more than are collected here, and every one I've looked at has been so fresh, so inventive. I'm writing more short stories myself lately and I like to read these for inspiration and tips on how to do it right. I wish I could be this good one day!
I'd read most (all?) of these short stories before, but I just love Bradbury and almost everything he does. A few of these were a little weird re: Mexicans (I totally didn't remember that about Bradbury), but this collection includes some brilliant classics ("The Foghorn", "There Will Come Soft Rains", "Dandelion Wine", etc.).
A really good selection of Ray Bradbury. I wanted to get a few more of his stories into my library but didn't want fat books like S is for Space, that sort of thing. This book had several of my favorites, as well as a few I don't like so much. It represents a good sampler of Bradbury- his creepy, his sweet, his horrific, his nostalgic, his humorous, his humanity.
I've read this collection before so this time I jumped in with only the few I remember as the most enjoyable. And, indeed, I enjoyed them again: "The Veldt", "The Small Assassin", and "There Will Come Soft Rains". Now I'm longing to read "Farenheit 451" again but I don't have a copy. Back to the library ...
