https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/648643.The_Barbarous_Coast
This book is effective, in its way, with some fine behind-the-scenes glimpses of Hollywood, mobsters, and the country club crowd, and Archer is good too, making more than a few weary observations about how private detecting has changed him, and not for the better.
We get our first sustained look at a sadder, wiser Archer (we have had more than a few short glimpses before), and he is frank in telling his audience--and a few other characters who will listen--how the shabbiness of the search for truth can soil a man.Perhaps this "sustained look" at the man is the main trouble with the book.
Not so much if you think that when it comes to sense of smell sharks smelling blood have nothing on organized crime smelling money.
Washington first and foremost but let us not forget this place which comes close second: Thus we are talking about Hollywood, big money, mobsters, movie and TV stars, corruption, high-level lifestyle and everything in between.
Coming back to the book, a couple of pages later Archer had to take another client for a very innocent-sounding job.
Imagine the following situation: suppose I work for an insurance company (I do not by the way) and somebody comes to me to buy a life insurance saying his/her main source of income is a blackmail of a crime boss.
The 6th Lew Archer novel starts out as another missing person case. The manager of an exclusive country club frequented by big-shot Hollywood types hires Archer to protect him from a "maniac' who claims that the manager stole his wife. The manager knows who the man's wife is but swears he has no idea of her whereabouts. After talking to the "maniac" Archer flips a coin and goes to work to find the missing wife. He said with the bitter irony of age: "So you are an altruist, are you? A Hollywood c
After talking to the "maniac" Archer flips a coin and goes to work to find the missing wife.
They flashed on my mind like brilliant lantern slides: Hollywood started as a meaningless dream, invented for money.
She was talking earnestly to the man beside her, an aging clown I'd seen in twenty movies."You said you'd catch me if I fell," she said."I was feeling stronger then.""You said you'd marry me if it ever happened.""You got more sense than to take me seriously.
Had no idea which character murdered which character.And the entire time, in almost every chapter, Archer's exhausted disgust at the way the wealthy waste what's left of their lives shoves itself to the fore.
After the modest disappointment of Find a Victim this one's a great comeback.
Because it's got a great pun of a title.
And it's a Hollywood novel.
Granted, the Hollywood Babylon of the early fifties could be a Disney ride by Ellroy standards, but you can still appreciate the sleaze and the cheese, however mild by our odiferous standards.
You also get the requisite wacky characters: the effete club manager, the punchdrunk boxer, the jealous husband, and deranged dames galore.
The best part: The girl at the center of the mystery is named Hester.
I seriously hope somewhere down the Archer line we have a femme fatale named Scout.
The Barbarous Coast is a hipster Hollywood sleaze mystery classic that has to be read to be believed: Ross McDonald tells a story of boxers and pool tramps bought and sold by Hollywood studios while movie studio dicks enforce damage control over their pilled-out and drunken stars while gangsters hustle men for sexual favors and rich wives foam at the mouth from Demerol seizures.
Corpses are torched and drunken matron motel managers are packing heat aching for a man to unload it on and stately sanatorium wives sew dildos on teddy bears.
Ross Macdonald's The Barbarous Coast (1956) is an early Lew Archer mystery that takes on the moneyed classes of Southern California with a shillelagh.
It all starts out when Archer reluctantly takes on a missing person case, in which a headstrong Canadian begs for help finding his lovely blonde wife who had come to Hollywood to become -- what else?
Eventually, the missing Heather Campbell is found, and a number of other bodies, mostly of thugs, pop up like weeds all over the place.I am beginning to like the Lew Archer stories and plan to continue reading the series.
This is my least favorite of the Lew Archer series so far. The crimes here are explained by mental illness and, as usual, that explanation feels sort of lazy.
He's so fine, right up there with Cain and Hammett and Chandler. And he says stuff like this:“Hollywood started as a meaningless dream, invented for money. But its colors ran, out through the holes in people’s heads, spread across the landscape and solidified. North and south along the coast, east across the desert, across the continent. Now we were stuck with the dream without a meaning. It has become the nightmare that we lived in.”
Grover Gardner is so great narrating as Lew Archer. And Ross MacDonald is a worthy successor to Raymond Chandler in the Los Angeles P.I. hard boiled genre!And the actual 'cover' of this digital audiobook looks like this:
I recently read this author's "The Way Some People Die" and thought the writing and plot very good.
I found "The Barbarous Coast" of lesser quality: it seemed to me the plot was, well, all over the place with too many characters popping in and out of the story, some of them even feeling unnecessary to the central story, as if MacDonald was trying to stretch this one out.
And the way MacDonald paints the dark side of Hollywood feels just right: so many dreams have sadly ended much too early, as they do in "The Barbarous Coast", a title perfect for the contents.
The uniformly strong nature of the Lew Archer novels make it kind of pointless to write much about any specific one. Here you’ve got what you’ve usually got – very strong writing, a powerful moral viewpoint, some clever character work, and one too many twists.
Another great Lew Archer detective story from Ross Macdonald.
But things never stay simple in a Macdonald mystery.
The trial leads to adultery, insanity, greed, and murder.
Quite a bit of murder actually.
I think this may have the highest body count of any Archer mystery I've read yet.i am obsessed with the character Lew Archer.
You're a writer, you're supposed to know these things.Trouble is what the word detective means to me.Hollywood started as a meaningless dream, invented for money.
But its colors ran, out through the holes in people's heads, spread across the landscape and solidified.
Yes, it’s an undoubtedly an Archer novel, as psychology and family intrigues play big roles here, but although there’s murder and blackmail, it knows it’s a detective story (and actually more than once references the way people behave in detective stories, in a lovely post-modernist touch) rather than a play by Chekov.It helps that Archer here falls right into my particular sweet spot: detective stories/thrillers about old Hollywood.
I’m not sure that there’s another Archer this focused on the movie business (if there is, I don’t recall reading it), but we have here studio heads, screenwriters, would be Latin lotharios of the silver screen and scheming starlets.

Enjoyed this like all his others, though not as good as The Chill...he does use the word Neutraesque in here though, and I particularly liked this:Mrs Campbell lived on a poor street of stucco and frame cottages half hidden by large, ancient oak trees. In their sun-flecked shadows, pre-school children played their killing games: Bang Bang, you're dead; I'm not dead; you are so dead.
Good, but the pacing seemed a little off. You can always rely on a few great scenes, and Archer’s dialogue with his scriptwriting friend is wonderful, but there are some lulls along the way.
In "The Barbarous Coast", Ross MacDonald offers up a classic detective story, along with his trademark descriptions and metaphors.In this book, Lew Archer, attempts to make contact with his new client, only to break up an attack by a man who claims that his wife is missing.
The plot of this one (despite my being distracted by other stories) seemed a few moves more complex than the standard MacDonald offering.
That is not a criticism; it just means that you need to pay attention to be able to take in the whole story.MacDonald begins and ends his book with an image of three divers, caught in a photograph.
The Chandler influence is evident in the plotting, since almost every chapter concerned one person butting into another person's room, while Macdonald's much-praised literary style becomes monotonous at times; one's eyes start to glaze at the prospect of yet another metaphor or moody description of the sea.
The last chapter is pure melodrama, as one character recounts what  really  happened that far off night...Also, it strained my credibility that Lew Archer was still standing up at the end of the story, since by that point not only had he had been severely beaten multiple times, sustaining major head wounds, but he had forgone all rest for a period of several days.
Also, after solid early entries like The Way Some People Die or The Ivory Grin, this book feels overstuffed despite its relatively short length: Macdonald throws a whole Chandler-esq milieu of starlets, movie studio executives, gangsters, washed-up boxers, and miscellaneous oddballs at the reader, but too much labyrinthine plotting is occurring to leave time for the pitch-perfect characterization we expect from an Archer book.
However, Macdonald would do a near 180 and begin to hit his stride in the series' next entry, The Doomsters, maybe my favorite Archer book to date.
I read the Library of America's "Four Novels of the Fifties." If I were rating that, I'd give it five stars.
Each of the novels taken on its own is excellent.For me, Hammett and Chandler are the greatest of the noir novelists of the mid-twentieth century, with Ross MacDonald up there with them.
I don't think MacDonald wrote a book as good as "The Big Sleep" or "The Maltese Falcon," but his body of work is larger, and a bit more psychological.As always, the racial and gender politics are occasionally a turnoff, but I think MacDonald's instincts would have allowed him to grow.
A few years ago I won the Edgar Award for mystery writing.
This book was the one that clicked for me, though I read all of the Lew Archer series, many times over.
This was the book that I was reading during a snowstorm somewhere in Ohio on the way to grad school at IU, where a few months later I invented my own fictional detective.
Macdonald's evocation of California and post-war angst opened my eyes to my own potential as a fiction writer.
He made mystery writing cerebral, artful.
If only there were more like him writing today.
I am amazed that MacDonald seems to have fallen out of the mystery pantheon. His books are marvelously plotted, well written, and speak to issues of family, friendship, and how old wrongs can return to create pain and chaos. I devoured this book and am so glad the Library of America has re-issued these books. When I was young, MacDonald was compared the Hammett and Chandler, and he deserved to be. He was truly one of the great American mystery novelists - in fact, like Hammett and Chandler, he deserves to be one of the great American novelists.
This book was recommended to me after I expressed an interest in writing a noir mystery of my own. While the plot line was interesting, and the writing very well done, I found it a tedious read often skimming through parts that seemed unnecessary. Perhaps I found it so because I'm new to noir, but for me it was a struggle. I will probably try a couple more by this author just to see if it's a matter of getting used to the style and genre.
Lew Archer ends up in the cesspool of mid-nineteen fifties Hollywood and lives to tell the tale. (I wonder what he'd think of Hollywood sixty years on?)I'm rereading Macdonald's Lew Archer novels from the last to the first, and The Barbarous Coast was (surprisingly, at least to me) an improvement over The Doomsters, the following book in the series.
Best yet in the series, and he almost pulled it off without the explanations at the end
it was good
As with "The way People Die," the setting is Los Angeles, although this time there is a touch of Las Vegas as well.
And instead of a rich widow in Palm Springs we have a hapless lady who is schizophrenic and marries a man who gets entangled with a bunch of Las Vegas gangsters,.
But there are some differences from the earlier book.
And, as with the earlier book, the plot, once "solved," seems a lot simpler and less convoluted than it appears to the reader as he/she reads the book.
Because there are so many characters in this story, the author.
For some reason, I stumbled across an article on my telephone, from The New Repbulic, about how Ross Macdonald was every bit as good, if not better, than Raymond Chandler, when it came to writing hard-boiled, noir detective fiction.
Wall, who claims to be married to Hester Campbell, claims she's run out on him, in Toronto, and is likely back in Southern California, and likely with one of the Channel Club's richest, most influential members, Simon Graff, the movie mogul.
On his way into the club, Archer had already run into Wall.
On the way out, he tries to chase Wall off, but Wall begs Archer to find his wife.
Macdonald is still the man who rightly inherited the Chandler hard boiled style but with more ccomplexity and more depth.
However, as much as I love Lew Archer mysteries, sometimes I believe author Macdonald was a bit self conscious and forced in creating this depth.
He needs to be read.
The Library of America have released not one but three volumes of his works.
I'm not sure anymore but The Library of America professed they would not publish genre works but literature.
They eventually published both Dashiell Hammett and Raymond Chandler because their works transcended genres.
Macdonald is the same.
Another double concussion for Archer, this guys starting to pile up the hits on the noggin. Is it bad enough to get knocked out once, but Archer seems to get nailed again as soon as he wakes up from the first one. Oh yeah, besides getting knocked stupid, he's hired as a body guard and discovers a whole lotta killing is going on at swanky private club.
