https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20910157-yes-please
The title itself references this - Poehler spends some time discussing how the improv rule of always replying with "yes, and..." is also a good rule for life, and how she tacks "please" onto that because Amy Poehler is truly, genuinely, wonderfully nice, and that's always refreshing.
That's the effect Amy Poehler's book had on me: it taught me how to do what I wanted, how to feel good about myself, how to deal with whatever terrible things life throws at you, and it reminded me to be kind.
Fantastic! Amy Poehler is so funny and relatable and inspirational. I especially loved learning about how she got into comedy and improv (as that's something I'm interested in myself) and just her general attitude and perspective is so refreshing and positive. I actually listened to the audiobook for half of this and it was brilliant--Amy's narration just makes this extra fun and hilarious. Overall, this was an awesome memoir! (And the Parks and Rec bit at the end just gave me so many FEELINGS, ugh it was painfully beautiful.)
She goes through a lot of, “Then we got a bigger theater, and then a bigger one, and then I was hired at SNL." For most of the book, I felt like she was skipping over the truly interesting side stories.
There are some anecdotes from SNL and Parks and Rec, but there are surprisingly few given how much time she's spent on both shows.Then again, back to George Clooney:(view spoiler)[On the day of the awards I simply asked George Clooney’s people to check and make sure George was okay with my sitting next to him at some point during the broadcast.
It breaks my heart to give this book one star.I love Amy Poehler. In fact I love every member of that early two-thousands (the decade, not the century) female Saturday Night Live cast ensemble: Poehler, Fey, Rudolph, Dratch. I often mentally include Kristen Wiig in the mix, too, because she’s fantastic, but she was sort of late to the party, having joined SNL a year before Dratch and Fey left.But as I was saying, I think highly of Poehler. I enjoy her comedy, her intelligence, her personality ov
I often mentally include Kristen Wiig in the mix, too, because she’s fantastic, but she was sort of late to the party, having joined SNL a year before Dratch and Fey left.But as I was saying, I think highly of Poehler.
But I didn’t like this book.To me, Yes Please reads more like a scatterbrained diary than the well-crafted memoir I had been hoping for.
At one point in the book Poehler mentions her addiction to self-googling, so in many ways I am hoping she doesn’t stumble across this review because I’d hate to imagine her feelings being hurt by it, so maybe it’s best that no one votes for it.In other words, do what you guys normally do.
I don't think I am alone, but no one is expressing my disappointment quite how I need it to be expressed, so I get to do that myself this time around.I just kept waiting...
I was so excited!And then I realized I had under fifty pages left.In the book, I waded through:A lot of celebrity name droppingI never figured out if it was supposed to be ironic, sarcastic, cute...
There was a lot of writing about writing a book.
TRANSITION SENTENCES WOULD HELP.A lot of trying to be funny...
Which is weird because I think Amy is a very funny person.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ Good Christ – just obtaining a library copy of this f*&^%$g book was like going on an adventure. After my third trek down to the local bibliotheca, I finally had success. Look at the happy!You’re probably asking yourself “if she’s such a Poehler fangirl, why didn’t she just go to the B&N and grab herself a copy????” Well, you see … I am cheap.Yes Please also wasn’t getting real stellar ratings and reviews so I decided to err o
It took me a loooooooonnnnnnng time (like half the book) to wrap my brain around the fact that the belly laughs were going to be few and far between, but once I did, I was able to enjoy Yes Please for what it was .
You are good at it.” Yes Please was one giant "love cookie" so I'm giving it 4 Stars (while realizing it would more than likely receive 2 Stars max were it not written by Amy Poehler).
Inspired me to continue on watching Parks & Rec!Very much enjoyed this, and I loved how Amy brought in others to help voice some sections of the book.
She read the book herself and I love that.
I loved looking at all of the pictures in the book as well.
I have to admit I have ne we watched Parks and Recreation but I did add it to my Netflix to see if I would like it.
There is this part in the book where she is talking about back in the day.
I was like, OMG, I should get out my old pics!
We wore silk blouses and shoulder pads, neon earrings and jodhpur pants.
It was a real experimental pant time.
Overall, I enjoyed the book!
HIGHLY HIGHLY RECOMMEND THE AUDIOBOOK! Amy Poehler is so genuine and awesome! On the audiobook she has special guests, a live audience for the final chapter, lots of random conversation, and all sorts of extra awesomness! LOVED THIS! :D
So I binged a lot of books the last few months in this category because my book is done and almost out and I can now lift the comparison stuff from my thoughts.
I loved the variety and the pictures (although the one thing I will say that's negative is this book is HEAVY!
It's printed on like 1000lb paper so if an intruder enters your home, look to this as a defense weapon.) Anyway, if you are interested in Amy then this is a book worth getting.
Poehler's Yes Please is both a scrapbook of her life so far with plenty of pictures and advice, and oddly enough: time travel.Whether playing Hillary Clinton,Avril Lavigne,or Amber (who is hypoglycemic, has a mad case of bed bugs, yet still manages to rock one leg...),Amy kills it every time.Although I've seen glimpses of Amy through other cast members' books such as Rachel Dratch  and Tracy Morgan, I liked hearing the words right from Amy's mouth.
I will watch this on my eyelid screen and mind camera.In short, or "long" since this review is, I'll just say that this book had me giggling like Ron Swanson.Oh, and Amy: I'm so proud of you.Signed, your time-travel dad
AMY IS INCREDIBLE. She is hilarious and down-to-earth and isn't afraid to admit her faults. I really enjoy her and I enjoyed this book.
It made me rethink a lot past choices of reading the book instead of listening to it… I feel like if I’d read Yes Please by myself, I wouldn’t have enjoyed it even one little bit.But while I loved how the way the audiobook was constructed, I can't ignore that I didn't care for the contents of this book.
I didn't walk away feeling like I had learned anything new about Amy Poehler, because she chose not to focus on stories of her background or comedy career so much as ditties on loving your flaws and the categories of books on divorce.
I love, love, love Amy Poehler and maybe my expectations were a little too high, but I thought the book was just okay.
Maybe I should've listened to Amy's advice?For what it's worth, it sounds like the audio book may have had more appeal, given that Amy herself reads the book and her narration is reportedly -- and unsurprisingly -- hysterical.
After having this on my shelf for like two years I finally got around to it and it was great!
Not only are there special guest speakers, but some parts have actual audio from the things she is talking about (like scenes from parks & rec)Amy just seems like a very funny, honest, open person and like someone you would want to be best friends with.
She talked about a lot of hard things but didn't go too in depth into any of them, but enough to give perspective.Overall a pretty fantastic book by a pretty great lady that I would definitely recommend.
4 Stars  "It takes years as a woman to unlearn what you have been taught to be sorry for. It takes years to find your voice and seize your real estate." I don't watch a lot of TV. Now before you roll your eyes, I'm not trying to earn hipster cred here before waxing poetic about the wonders of the written word...  I'm just busy. And at one point my Netflix subscription lapsed and it was a month before I noticed. So yeah, I don't watch a lot of TV. But, I do own all the 'Parks and Recreation' box
(My friend circle casually refers to me as 'Leslie Knope' and I always laugh good-naturedly and try not to show how absurdly proud this makes me) SO, even though I never read memoirs and I knew very little about Poehler outside of Parks and Rec, I snagged a download of the audiobook and was pleasantly surprised by how fun and genuine this book is.
Instead of a linear narrative of her life so far, Poehler gives us snippets and tells stories like she's sharing coffee with a friend.
Every single chapter was filled with stories a smart, powerful woman Poehler knows and how proud she was of them.
This book was genuine and felt like I had a friend telling me about her life, which is another reason why I like listening to memoirs on audio.She had a lot of guests in her audiobook narration, and it was very interesting because at some points, she and that other person would be in the recording studio together, and they would talk to each other casually.
I love Amy, I love her life, I love her jokes, and I love her show Parks & Rec. Read this if you love Leslie Knope.
(She goes on for like 10 pages about this one time her friend and her handcuffed each other in school one day.) And every so often, she reveals beautiful moments when she actually slows down and stops name-dropping and barfing on the pages.
watching the moon with her sons, "time travel," and the occasionally perfectly plucked set of words to describe a scene, make the book bearable?
Amy Poehler told us she did not have time to write a book, and she clearly did not.
Sweet read!
True metaphors for the fame-inclined abound, & the author (as early as page four) becomes one of the best friends you never had!
Poehler does three things at once-- she gives you insight into her personal life...
the Wikipedia stuff and then some; she becomes retrospective about it, comes from a place where she can pinpoint exact successes & failures in her rad career; AND she entertains you throughout like only a true performer can.She professes: "The talking about the thing isn't the thing.
The doing of the thing is the thing." So, really, don't let me tell you about it...
Older men can be sexy and powerful, but when a thrice-divorced entertainment attorney puts his bony hand on my knee, I want to whisper in his ear, "You're crazy, old man."I did not expect to like this book.
Another fun read from the subgenre I like to call, "Memoirs written by women who worked on SNL". It's overall a fun and humourous read. It may have needed some editing and could have lost a couple chapters but as a whole it's a memorable memoir. It's fun and that's all it needed to be.
People are their most beautiful when they are laughing, crying, dancing, playing, telling the truth, and being chased in a fun way. Oh Amy, you are truly beautiful.I just adore her on Parks and Rec - there's just a certain something about such a positive, upbeat comedy that completely draws me in. This book had a similar feel to it. The tone is so down-to-earth that I felt like more we were having a chat over coffee rather than I was reading her book. She drops these pearls of wisdom with such
Amy describes it with her signature humor which makes it all the more enjoyable.I hadn't heard of the SNL skit about  Dakota Fanning & the disabled barbie prior to this book.
Amy went through with the skit, though she did not fully know it's background.
And Amy made fun of her on live TV - and what's worse, the girl was watching that night.
Audiobook Comments--SHE ROCKED THE NARRATION OF HER OWN BOOK - In a word, superb.--SHE HAD GUEST SPEAKERS - Amy had a great rapport with the others.
I didn’t know very much about Amy Poehler prior to reading this book, but I recently became hooked on Parks and Rec and wanted to learn more about the person behind my beloved character, Leslie Knope.
Also when I read this book, I had only made it through season 4 of Parks and Rec, and sadly without warning some exciting news that happens later in the show was spoiled for me by this book when Amy lists of in quick succession things that happened to her character on the show.
My favorite chapters were about her years at "Saturday Night Live" and "Parks and Recreation," which is a favorite show of mine.Early on, Amy discusses how difficult it was to write a book, and that she had to work on it when she had a few spare moments between jobs and taking care of her two children.
I listened to this on audio, performed by Amy Poehler and several of her entertainment friends, including Seth Meyers, Carol Burnett, Mike Schur, Kathleen Turner, Patrick Stewart, and also some cameos by Amy's parents.
I LOVE Amy Poehler. This book just highlighted my favorite parts about her and also showed me some of her faults, which she owned up to. She just seems like such a genuine and down to earth person and I love it.I also highly recommend the audio book! I read the first half with the physical book and then changed to the audio book version and it made the entire experience so much better. Her voice is so soothing and you can tell when she's being sarcastic (it's sometimes hard to tell in the physical book).
The always charming and charismatic Amy PoehlerSo in between chapters and while we learned about Poehler's career, the ins and outs of the comedic scene and get to know her wonderful parents - both of whom made cameo appearances on the audiobook and really sound like the most adorable people- she shares some insightful advice.Here are a few of these nuggets that I found both savvy and full of commonsense.
AMEN.
I'm sure I could not possibly have enjoyed the book as much as listening to Amy read it!
If Amy read the phone book - I think she could have held my attention.
Amy shared how she attempted to clean up the hurt she contributed to another A YEAR LATER...
AS FAR AS I WAS CONCERN ....AMY deserved 5 stars for her book for that one story alone!!!Another 'teary' moving moment.
I think I loved that quality about Amy best of all.
Hell yeah, I'd love to be friends with Amy Poehler!
My BIGGEST advice for this book is to listen to the audiobook. She is hilarious! It is definitely worth it.I have always LOVED Amy Poehler. She is a very strong and funny women that made it far in life. It was a little cautious about reading her book because not all funny people can write good books. That is why it took me so long. However, Amy's book is hilarious! Especially on audiobook. So like I said above, make sure to listen to her audiobook :)I highly recommend this book!
This was just okay for me, but that might be because I listened to Yes Please directly after Leah Remini's Troublemaker: Surviving Hollywood and Scientology, which in hindsight was probably a disservice.
I think the main issue is just that Amy Poehler's life isn't as fascinating to hear about.
Was there something groundbreaking that happened in her life that demanded to be written about?
The narrative was choppy and Poehler flips to different parts of her life on a whim, not following any sort chronological order or sense.
This made for a confusing listening experience for me at times.
