https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1918702.Lon_Po_Po
the origins of the little red riding hood story are unclear, but they can be traced to well before the 17th century perrault interpretation most familiar to western readers. earlier versions of the tale have turned up in other parts of europe, in africa, asia, and the middle east. in some of the stories, the children are eaten, in some they escape, in some they are eaten and still escape, sometimes the antagonist is a tiger, a fox, a hyena...this book is presenting itself as A Red-Riding Hood S
in some of the stories, the children are eaten, in some they escape, in some they are eaten and still escape, sometimes the antagonist is a tiger, a fox, a hyena...this book is presenting itself as A Red-Riding Hood Story From China, but it's actually closer to one of riding hood's splinter tales - either "The Wolf and the Kids" or "The Tiger Grandmother" in which the threat is invited in; where a predator disguised as a family member tricks its way into the house by bamboozling a trusting child or children, as opposed to gaining access to the house first, and then awaiting the child's visit cleverly disguised as a loved one.

Unsettling! So much more intense and scary than Little Red Riding Hood. These 3 girls are brave, fierce things standing up to this hungry wolf. I mean, this gave me chills. Plus, the art is impressionistic and the uncertain depictions really helped to unsettle the story. I really enjoy this story. It is wonderful and wow. It shows what being brave really is.This was intense for the kids and they still enjoyed it. The nephew needed some reassurance it would be alright.
This is the Chinese version of Red Riding Hood and it is quite wonderful. We get three children in danger of the wolf and they handle it by using their brains so it's a much more intelligent spin than we often get in European versions of fairy tales. Plus, this book has some very nice artwork completing the overall look of the story. Simple but beautiful.
This one is Chinese, and had me laughing myself into a bellyache with the wickedly clever counter-schemes by the little girls to outsmart the Big Bad Wolf.Like the Western version we're familiar with, there's a mother fretting over an ailing grandmother, a need to go visit said granny, and the wolf disguising himself as the old woman in hopes of getting a tasty meal.
Those who weren't fond of the Woodsman barging in to separate Red from the wolf via axe in the Perrault/Grimms version will love the outcome in Lon Po Po, which is entirely on the girls' resourcefulness, and that reminded me a bit of the Three Little Pigs tale.
“Lon Po Po” is a Caldecott Medal winning book by Ed Young that is a remake of Brothers Grimm’s classic “Red Riding Hood,” only this time, there are three sisters who outwit a cunning wolf in this tale.
“Lon Po Po” may be a bit too scary for smaller children because of the images, but older children will easily love this story that is full of mystery and suspense.Ed Young has done a great job at writing and illustrating this old Chinese folktale about how three sisters outwit a cunning and frightening wolf.
An interesting cautionary tale in the style of 'Little Red' from China. Unlike the western version, this one has a different ending where the children outwit the wolf. The illustrations accompanying the text are wonderful, and match the text well.
I love the creepy wolf on the cover.
I think Ed Young loves wolves too because he puts a dedication at the beginning of the book.To all the wolves of the worldfor lending their good nameas a tangible symbol for our darknessThis is an old Chinese folk tale called Granny Wolf.
The illustration is excellent, and I loved the old world feeling the book had.
Lon Po Po may be bit too creepy for very young children, but older ones will probably enjoy it.
(view spoiler)[ I knocked a star because it always bums me out when the wolf gets killed in old fairytales.
However, Lon Po Po is actually (or at least it seems so to me) not ONLY a Red Riding Hood type of folktale, but also has similarities (and actually in my opinion, considerably stronger similarities) to the tale of the wolf and the seven little kids (Der Wolf und die Sieben Geißlein), as it appears in Grimm's Kinder- und Hausmärchen, a cautionary story, where a mother goat leaves the children home alone, and a hungry, nasty wolf gains entrance by using a number of disguises to appear and sound like the mother goat.
I particularly like the dedication page, in which Young creates an image that is both man and wolf, and is written:"To all the wolves of the worldfor lending their good nameas a tangible symbolfor our darkness."
Another book I read to my daughter when she was little. Liked it and remember the artwork being perfect for the mood and retelling of this children's classic. No rating due to this being read so long ago.
The most wonderful book that a child, and also any other individual could read. The ending was exquisite and I do like wolves! My father always read fairy tales to me and it certainly brings back wonderful memories of a bygone era... My... the delights of childhood and bravo here particularly.
Lon Po Po is a red riding hood story from China.
The story follows the traditional pattern of red riding hood.
All of the children climb the gingko tree to get away from the wolf.
But the wolf says that he is too old to climb the tree, so Shang tells him that the children will help him by hoisting him up inside of a basket.
This book would be useful when teaching fairytales, especially along with a collection of red riding hood tales from various cultures.
Great illustrations!Mar 2012 update: We watched this story on DVD as part of Scholastic's Storybook Treasures.
The story is not truly animated, but the illustrations are shown with various zooming techniques throughout as it is narrated by B.D. Wong.
Our girls didn't remember this story, since we read it more than three years ago, so we really enjoyed watching it together.This tale was selected as one of the books for the July 2016- Quarterly Caldecott discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.This book was also selected as one of the books for the May 2018 - Boston Globe-Horn Book Picture Book Award Winners 1983-1990 discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
This is a version of the "The Little Red Riding Hood" from China about three siblings whose mother leaves to visit their grandmother.
The wolf sees the mother leave and approaches the house pretending to be the grandmother.
Upon their mother's return they enlighten her about how they escaped the wolf.I feel that this book would be an excellent option for doing a genre study or a compare/contrast activity.
Lastly, I would like to mention the illustrations in this book.
The illustrations do a great job of making the reader connect with the characters and better understand their feelings.
Lon Po Po, which means “granny wolf” in Chinese, is the Chinese retelling of the classic Little Red Riding Hood fairy tale.
The girls wait for their mother to come home and tell her what happened with the wolf.Both versions of the fairy tale teach the reader a valuable lesson about the potential dangers of the world.
Just like in the classic Little Red Riding Hood, the children are smart enough to realize that the wolf is not their grandmother.
However, in the traditional fairy tale, Little Red Riding Hood appears dependent, even helpless.
This Chinese version of Little Red Riding Hood provides a direct contrast to the original Grimm version--the teacher in me could envision the Venn Diagrams straight away!
While the wolf antagonist, theme of caution, and children's observation skills remains the same, most other points differ.
In this version, the mother leaves to visit the grandmother, the wolf comes to the children's home, the children outsmart the wolf and save themselves.
The author and illustrator, Ed Young, born and raised in China, appears to bring elements of authentic Chinese visual artistry to this Chinese tale.
The illustration format likens to Chinese panel art.
This version--both visually and plot-wise-- unfolds beautifully.
The story is a traditional Chinese tale, somewhat akin to Red Riding Hood.
The children remain at home, however, while their mother leaves to go visit their grandmother.
The wolf tricks them into opening the door, but they children outsmart the wolf.
It's a timeless lesson about heeding warnings, and obeying the instructions of your elders.
But I really like the way these three young girls get the best of the bad wolf!
They are brave and clever.Young’s beautiful illustrations support and enhance the story.
I particularly liked the way the wolf was “disguised” with vague water color images, and the expressions he gave to the girls
This is a Chinese fairy tale. A mother leaves her three daughters alone and a wolf visits them pretending to be their Po Po (Grandmother). After thinking it is their granny, one of them catches a glimpse of the wolf's face. They then trick the wolf and the wolf ends up dying. Their mother comes homes and they live happily ever after. The illustrations are dreamy and quity scary. A funny story: My son looked at the picture with three daughters and said, "But in China, they're only supposed to have one child." Whoops!
The pictures are a little too vague and skimpy for a good readaloud, but this Chinese story is great and can be used to compare and contrast with the traditional "Little Red Riding Hood".
This may be my favorite Little Red Riding Hood version. It's a Chinese folktale, where the children must be clever to save themselves from a wolf that comes knocking when their mother is away. I loved the agency of the children, the artwork, and the dialog that gives lots of room for voices when reading it aloud. Most amazingly, Marian -- my 5 month old -- listened to the entire book straight through! And it's a longer picture book! She was rapt the entire time. Quite an amazing feat. 4.5/5
Once inside, the wolf blows the candle so that the girls cannot see, for they will know that is not their Po Po. The wolf then yawns and feign sleep, in order to get in bed and eat the children soon.
On top of the tree, Shang explained to her sisters what was happening and told them her plan to lure out the wolf and hurt it.
With this variation of the story, children could learn from Shang quick thinking, by telling the fake Po Po that she must be so hungry, feigning hospitality even.
Thinking quickly Shang asks if the wolf wanted some gingko nuts from the tree outside.
Once at the top of the tree Shang tells her siblings about the wolf and her plan to trick the wolf.
The children tell him to the basket from the house so they can pull him up the tree.
The wolf sits in the basket and Shang pulls with all her might, but oops, her little arms give way and down goes the wolf.
Her siblings try and all of the children try to pull the wolf up, but oops, their little arms cannot hold up the wolf.
1. Lon Po Po is the story of three young sisters who are left at home alone while their mother goes to visit their grandmother "po po." When the mother leaves, a smart, cunning wolf sees and comes up with a plan to pretend to be the childrens' grandmother.
The wolf becomes impatient with the children after they tell him they're only magic if he eats them straight off the tree.
You could have the students list the similarities between this book and the other version of Little Red Riding Hood.
Lon Po Po, translated and illustrated by Ed Young, is a red- riding hood story from China.
This red- riding hood tale about a woman who lived alone with her three children.
The girls’ work together to pull him in a basket to the top of the tree in which they are hiding, then let go of the rope to kill the wolf.
It could be a book used for compare and contrast with other red riding hood tales, for sequencing the events in the story, identifying key elements, character traits compare and contrast, comprehension questions, writing activities, safety, and many other ways.
First, it is set in China and secondly, the wolf impersonating the grandmother comes to the children, not the other way around.
The reader can infer that the wolf is up to no good in this story.
The colors really help set up the tone of the story.
Older students could use this text as a mentor text to a fairy tale unit, then focus on the similarities and differences of the story, Little Red Riding Hood.
Many good discussions could come from this text if it was used as part of a text set showcasing the skills of identifying tone and mood.
A classic Chinese retelling of 'Red Riding Hood' - a very different albeit similar take, with three young sisters at the forefront.The misty watercolour illustrations really add to the darkness of the book.
The wolf himself - Lon Po Po, the house intruder disguised as the girls' grandmother - is terrifying, yet at the end you can't help feeling sorry for him.
Thus leading to the wolf's plot and demise in the first place.'Lon Po Po: A Red Riding Hood Story From China'- a gloomy, creepy and strangely funny fairy tale.
The book takes on the theme of good versus bad.
I think this is a good book for young readers because I feel the mysterious illustrations will hold the children’s attention, as well as, the story keeping you in suspense of what will happen next.
The good versus bad theme can always keep children on the edge of their seats and guessing what will happen next.
For the classroom, it can be a good read-a-loud book, and during the reading, the teacher can ask the children what is going to happen next and make them think while listening to the story.
In Lon Po Po, the protagonist is not one girl but three young children and the problem is not that they have to travel through the woods to their grandmother's house but that they are left alone at home when their mother leaves to travel to their grandmother's house.
The children accept the explaination that their grandmother and their mother must have just missed each other on their travels by taking different routes.
The children must not let on that they know their "grandmother's" true identity while coming up with a plan to rid themselfs of the threat.
Lon Po Po- a red riding hood story from China by Ed Young is about three young Chinese children who are left alone at home while their mother goes to visit their grandmother for her birthday.
After their mother left, Shang, Tao and Paotze heard a knock on the door and it was a wolf disguised as their grandmother Po Po. The three siblings start to wonder why their Po Po is acting so different.
When the wolf entered their house, he blew out the candle so that the children couldn’t see that he was clearly a wolf.
