https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32080126-anything-is-possible
Elizabeth Strout weaves together distinctive stories where we are left to marvel at the difficulties - history -and life changing experiences of the many characters.
A little funny: Angelina visits her 78 year old mother, Mary.
Wonderful imagery of windmills, cornfields, and bright soybeans in summertime, Lovely feelings of an old fashion town with red houses, black shutters, with a swing porch, deeply moving intimate prose, psychological awakenings of characters, and we come away with ....anything is possible for anyone.
Thank You Random House, Netgalley, and Elizabeth Strout....( I LOVE YOU)
We encounter Lucy Barton through the perspectives of others, where she comes across as a wonderful woman, she has survived difficult circumstances, to become a renowned writer of a well received memoir.
You meet and learn more about the history and fate of the characters as they criss cross across the stories.
Annie comes to understand why her father forbids her to go into the woods and just how judgmental the local community can be.
This almost has me weeping.I am finding it hard to put into words just how much I loved these short stories.
Charlie makes a point to visit this lonesome and strange man though he has good reason to write the whole family off as you will see when you read this wonderfully thought out novel.All have stories to tell, of past and present, and they are startling in some of their admissions.
All these stories are interesting, some appalling but taken as a whole we garner a pretty good understanding of where Lucy came from and what and who has changed since she left.Lucy herself puts in an appearance to visit her brother and sister, a visit that has a startling finish.
I'm between 4 and 4.5 stars here.I don't know about you, but people watching utterly fascinates me. It's really amusing to watch the dynamics of families and groups of friends, but what's even more fun is making up stories about those we see, developing a narrative about their relationships, challenges, and victories. (It would be great to find out how far from the truth these stories are, wouldn't it?)Reading Elizabeth Strout's new collection of linked stories,  Anything is Possible , feels lik
These stories are beautifully written, at times utterly moving, and, like people-watching, often truly fascinating and compelling.I haven't read Strout's 
As Strout says of a character in one of her stories, but this applies to most of them, "Life had simply not been what she thought it would be."My favorites in this collection included: "The Sign," in which an elderly man finds his faith tested after a conversation he has with a troubled man he occasionally looks after; "Sister," where an adult Lucy Barton returns to her hometown and her siblings after being away for nearly 20 years; "The Hit-Thumb Theory," about a Vietnam veteran suffering from PTSD who has a dilemma that could radically change the course of his life, and he finds a moment's solace in a small bed-and-breakfast; "Windmills," in which a lonely widow changes her life after reading a book written by someone from her hometown; and "Snow-Blind," about a shocking discovery a young actress makes after she has left her family behind.These are not happy, well-adjusted people in many cases.
This is a collection of connected stories and probably could be read as a stand alone, but I have to admit that my enjoyment and appreciation of it was enhanced by having met Lucy previously.Some of the unspoken things we surmised about Lucy's childhood from Strout's previous book, are confirmed in the first story, "The Sign".
Even though these stories are about some of the people in Lucy's past,she is ever present in these character's memories.
It isn't just the memories that people have of Lucy and their past connection to her, but Lucy herself appears front and center in the story, "Sister".
!! NOW AVAILABLE !!Once again, Elizabeth Strout has exquisitely examined and shared the life of a small group of people in a small town in this lovely compilation of intermingled stories that form this novel.
And all through these days in this place, these places, these people, Strout weaves magical links through each of their stories, binding them together in secrets, shame, humility, compassionate service, laughter, pain, fear.
These particular lives, yes, but it’s really about every life, all lives.
How we hold onto those moments as long as we hold onto life, carrying things we should set down, left behind long ago, but we carry these with us.
Once again, here is another book I read for a Goodreads challenge on audio. And it's another one I'm going to buy and add to my collection. BUT! I need to buy the first book (Lucy Barton) first. I had no idea this was the second book in that story line. I loved everything about this book as well and the narrator was awesome! I absolutely loved it! Happy Reading! Mel ♥
I really enjoyed the writing style, I actually felt the difference between chapters when the point of view shifted to that of another character which is amazing in my opinion because everyone has a certain writing style and because of that a lot of the characters end up being written similar enough that you don't really feel the shift as much from one point of view to the next.
I don't really like short stories that much but I enjoyed this because all the stories seemed to be threaded around the common theme of Lucy and happening in the same story line enough so that I didn't feel like they were short stories but a sort of continuing narrative.
Strout has quickly become for me a go-to-author.
She creates memorable and complex characters for the simplest of stories.Everything is Possible is an attestation to this.
She links the character from my Name is Lucy Barton and weaves her into vignettes of the townspeople she grew up with.
Themes of forgiveness, redemption and love of family and friends, because quite honestly, anything is possible when one is transparent with their emotions.I'm not a fan of the short story by any stretch but the writing here is lyrical and smooth.
I remain a devout Strout fan.
I’m thinking that’s why I didn’t completely love My Name is Lucy Barton.
My absolute favorite story was “Sister,” which was about Lucy coming home to visit her brother and sister.
Oh my god was it great.Time for a list of favorites (pulled from various stories):Favorite scene: a woman having a panic attackFavorite line: "No one should be in a room with a man who's at the end of his rope."Second favorite line:“Don’t you go pissing down my back and then tell me it’s raining outside.”This line is pretty cool, too:“To listen to a person is not passive.
The conversation resulted in Pete's contemplation of years of his mother's emotional neglect and his destruction of a sign after the janitor shared a spiritual moment experienced as he watched his "burning barn."The second and third stories cannily contrast the life paths taken by the two Nicely sisters.
4.5 StarsAnything is Possible is the sequel to My Name is Lucy Barton and is read as short stories.
In these unforgettable wise, simple and gracefully told short stories we learn more of the siblings and neighbours known to us from My Name is Lucy Barton as they share gossip, judgement and their sadness and disappointments.
I found My Name is Lucy Barton to be more of quieter story while Anything is Possible felt a bit louder with more things said as we learn the characters stories of disappointments.
These stunning short stories and characters reminded me that with a little kindness and compassion Anything is Possible.
I loved My Name is Lucy Barton! Anything is Possible, focuses on different characters, in each chapter, from Lucy's hometown of Amgash, Illinois. There is quite a lot of sadness and pain in these stories, but these characters and their situations were so well written, that I really felt like I knew them. I had a few favorites, and I am glad that Lucy made an appearance, and, the way the book ended, wow, what a way to go out!Thank you to NetGalley and Random House for an ARC!
This book is a series of related short stories, linked to each other, but also linked through connections to Lucy Barton.
Whether the connection is direct or peripheral, the people in this book know Lucy Barton, or know of her, or know people who know people who knew Lucy Barton.Through sadness, contentment, pain, joy, sorrow, serenity, tragedy, triumph, spitefulness, sincerity – through a kaleidoscope of human emotion, these are their stories.At one point, a young girl in this book asks her brother to do something with her and he replies that he doesn’t have an appetite for it.
I did have an appetite for this amazing nine-course meal, and voraciously consumed it all.
I am absolutely certain that Stout could write a book about watching pain peel off a wall and I would read it.
I read books and think that they are good and then I read Stout and think "Yes!
She is a brilliant Author who can take people and their lives and add a certain type of brilliance to their story.
This book was written in tandem to "My name is Lucy Barton" and showcases the people who grew up with Lucy and continue to live in their small town.
There is something so lovely and graceful about her writing.
I read "My Name Is Lucy Barton" last year, which was my introduction to Elizabeth Strout's writing style.
All I remember about that book were the feelings it provoked in me--unresolved feelings that were all too familiar with my own mother.
I became so caught up in the strained relationship between Lucy and her mother and the hurt that had been festering all those years that I don't remember any of the people from Lucy's hometown who were mentioned.
I wanted to know more and read more.
I want to pick up that book right now and continue reading.
Even so, I still feel edgy, irritated, worried that I will lack the skills to communicate what I want to about this collection.This started out as a perfectly pleasant read for me; I love interconnected short stories, have preferred them as a literary device since my early days of being a Salinger stalker, a lover of all members of the family named Glass, and I felt overjoyed at this discovery and perfectly at home with this writing.But, three stories in, I felt thwarted, felt my passion wane.
Anything Is Possible★★★★★ 5 Convincing Stars! “Sarah Payne, the day she told us to go to the page without judgment, reminded us that we never knew, and never would know, what it would be like to understand another person fully." ― Elizabeth Strout, My Name is Lucy Barton***********************************************I received a free advance e-copy of this book from the publisher via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review, thank you!In My Name Is Lucy Barton, the critically acclaimed 2016 no
Anything Is Possible offers a peek into the life of some of those characters and, for those of us who felt in love with Lucy, Strout provides additional pieces of the puzzle allowing us to get a much complete picture of who she is, of the other members of her family and the community and the people that, for good or bad, played a role in her upbringing.I enjoyed most of the stories but here are a few favorites: In 

Each character featured in a story experiences a sort of epiphany which comes from a sudden breaking down of barriers with another person or a surprising revelation about someone they know closely.
In my favorite story in the collection, Angelina, a school teacher friend of Patty’s, visits her mother in Italy, where in her 70s she has taken up a new life with a much younger man after 50 years of unhappy marriage to her father.
The third story to stretch the mold is the one that features Lucy herself visiting her brother Peter and sister Vicky for the first time since leaving.
It's a collection of connected stories that are also linked to My Name Is Lucy Barton -- stories about people from Lucy's childhood town, bringing a different perspective to Lucy's childhood and background.
But with the exception of one story, I didn't love Everything Is Possible in the same way I loved My Name Is Lucy Barton.
I really liked many of the stories, but they didn't touch me in the same way as Lucy Barton.
The collection as a whole is well worth reading, but if you love Lucy Barton as much as I did I suggest going in with tempered expectations so that the stories can be appreciated for what they are.
Lucy's backstory does illuminate several of these narratives.Strout's characters are all loosely connected in some way across these nine stories and Lucy Barton makes a welcome appearance in one of them.
Some of the stories are pretty dark, but there is always a glimmer of salvation - because, after all, "Anything is Possible."I read this twice because I loved it so, but it also helped me make connections between the many characters that I missed the first time through.
A real gem; I highly recommend this or any of Strout's works.Thanks to Netgalley and Random House Publishing for an ARC of this lovely collection.
She takes a group of unexceptional folk and interweaves an exceptional group of short stories as we revisit the small impoverished town of Amgash, Illinois.
We even get to have a sit-down with Lucy herself.....albeit a somewhat difficult one.Bad times and sad times are in abundance here though with dysfunctional families and their dark personal secrets, but a couple characters actually brought a smile to my face, and one in particular (Dottie) made me laugh out loud!
Wait till you see what she does.....And even though troubled times abound throughout these stories of "imperfect love"...loss...and..."unspeakable pain"...there is (thankfully) peace and understanding for some in these connected tales of woe.....And. Oh.
I expect I'll be the odd one out on this book.
While I see glowing accolates and many 4.5 and 5 star reviews, I just had a hard time connecting with it.
Strout's My Name Is Lucy Barton was extraordinary, and this book is written in a similar vein.
Strout takes us to Lucy's hometown where we meet people from her past as well as her siblings.
Every person is so completely *human* -- flawed, imperfect, and in this book, profoundly sad (perhaps that was my issue.
Right book, wrong time.
Perhaps I just couldn't handle the deep melancholy that pervades the book right now).
There is a general theme of family separation, and sometimes that’s for the best and other times it has a profound effect on the lives of children and spouses.(view spoiler)[I felt drawn to the lives of Pete and Lucy Barton for different reasons.
They are both troubled coming from an extremely poor upbringing, but Lucy has broken free of her childhood environment and achieved success, while Pete has accepted to live the frugal life he has always known.
(hide spoiler)]A book I would highly recommend for its wonderful prose and character developments, and how the dialogue brings the story to life.Many thanks to NetGalley and Penguin Books UK, for an ARC version of the book in return for an honest review.
I enjoyed Olive Kitteridge but never got around to reading My Name is Lucy Barton.
This book, written simultaneously with Lucy Barton, explores the folks still living in Lucy’s hometown.
Like Olive Kitteridge, it is a series of short stories all interwoven around folks that know each other.
I will be the first to admit I'm not usually a fan of short stories.
It is not necessary to have read Lucy Barton first.
For those that have read it, I think a lot of the characters will feel like coming home.
Next, I need to find time to read My Name is Lucy Barton.
This goes on my favorites list, and to those who consider not reading it because it's described as a book of short stories, forget that.
I consider it to be a novel in the best sense of the word, giving us a fully realized world and characters who are still living in that world long after we close the book.
This is a companion novel to LUCY BARTON, which should be read first."He opened his eyes, and yes, there it was, the perfect knowledge: Anything was possible for anyone."
And she stops a few in their tracks until they blurt out something they’d managed to keep private until now.Most of the people have their guard up and converse side-by-side, but now and then, without warning, something triggers and “She looked straight into his eyes, and he saw it was her; he saw his sister.”I’ve been startled like that myself with my family – that sudden feeling of deep familiarity instead of the usual everyday relationship.Many of these people are outcasts who have felt unloved or unworthy of being loved.
But with all the questions about war and life, Strout's people still find comfort in each other.Wonderful stories and people.
Connected short stories are a particular favourite of mine - so I only have myself to blame for not having started reading Elizabeth Strout's books earlier.
And after this absolutely brilliant book I feel a bit stupid.
I will remedy this as soon as possible though and buy the rest of her books.Elizabeth Strout has a way of creating brilliance out of ordinary situations and and she tells the stories' of ordinary, real, believable characters.
Elizabeth Strout excels in depicting families - in all their glory and dysfunction and it feels immensely real and relatable.
I loved this. Expect to see it in the Summer Reading Guide.
