https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/763362.The_One_Minute_Manager
أشكر المولى جلت قدرته .. أن يسر لي الدخول على موقع " قودريدز " ومنه .. قرأت ملخصاً للكتاب لأجزم على شرائه .. وأقرؤه في فترة أشد ما أحتاجه فيها !مدير الدقيقة الواحدة .. كتاب إداري .. حاز على جوائز عالمية .. وبيع منه أكثر من 7 ملايين نسخة حول العالم .. كما ترجم إلى عدة لغات مختلفة ..سأحاول أن ألخص أفكار الكتاب حتى تصل لذهن القارئ .. كما أشير بأن الملخص لا يغني عن قراءة الكتاب لأن بين السطور ما بينها .. وهناك الكثير من الفوائد التي جنيتها من الكتاب ..تتلخص فكرة مدير الدقيقة الواحدة بالتالي :1. وضع
وأقرؤه في فترة أشد ما أحتاجه فيها !مدير الدقيقة الواحدة ..
وهناك الكثير من الفوائد التي جنيتها من الكتاب ..تتلخص فكرة مدير الدقيقة الواحدة بالتالي :1.
وضع هدف الدقيقة الواحدة ..
وهي عبارة عن قضاء دقيقة واحدة مع موظف أنجز مهمة أو عمل أو هدف أو قام بعمل جبار ..
وهي أن تلقي باللوم والعتاب على موظف بشكل سريع ومباشر ..
مدير الدقيقة الواحدة دائماً لديه وقت ..
راق لي الكثير من العبارات المختصرة والتي تعطيك فكرة ميسرة في التعامل مع نفسيات الموظفين ..مقدمة الكتاب جداً راقية وجذابة ..
أفضل ما في الكتاب أنه سلس وسهل وتستطيع أن تنجزه في خلال جلسة واحدة ..
أن مدير الدقيقة الواحدة ..
A minute here and there will suffice.Actually there is some helpful management advice:1.
The process of clarifying things so that both managers and employees know what their objectives are means greater success and less communication is necessary.2.
The One Minute praise-Catch your employee doing something right and specifically praise them for that action and let them know how valuable it is for you.
This is all helpful advice in managing people.
Along the way the characters, spout off the same advice and show each other motivational messages on plaques.
There is also a lot of advice about touching people to communicate you care.
Here are my notes, mostly quoted straight from the book:Manager TypesAutocratic- "Tough"- Interested in results- Profit-minded- Organization wins while people loseDemocratic- "Nice"- Interested in people- People win while organization losesPeople who feel good about themselves produce good results.One minute goal setting1.
Tell people up front that you are going to let them know how they are doing.2.
Shake hands or touch people in a way that makes it clear that you support their success in the organization.One minute reprimand1.
Tell people beforehand that you are going to let them know how they are doing and in no uncertain terms.the first half of the reprimand:2.
كاب جيد إلى حد ما مقارنة بكثير من كتب التنمية البشرية التي قرأتها موخراًأفضل ما بالكتاب من وجهة نظري هو الاسلوب القصصي الممتع والنصائح العملية الموجزة
If the employee fails to achieve or does badly, then the manager immediately administers a one minute reprimand, this to include touching the employee and a period of silence so the employee can really feel the manager's displeasure (view spoiler)["bad employee!
Messers Blanchard and Johnson (view spoiler)[ the latter also the author of the ValueTales children’s books, which did make me cringe  (hide spoiler)] have here stepped up to the plate like true athletes of their nation offering the pure salvation in the form of the doctrine of one minute management: agree what to do, praise success, reprimand failure.
Poorly.That being said, I think this is probably a really solid management style.
The dialog attribution alone is nausea-inducing.This is from the same school of thought as Dale Carnegie's How to Win Friends & Influence People.
Which is, basically, if you manipulate people into thinking you care about them, they'll do what you want.
Of course, it's framed in such a way that you really *should* care about them.
And this is probably true.
It's just a reminder that people care only about themselves, so if you can leverage that, you'll win.It's incredibly short, but this book was painful to read.
A must read for new managers.
It's a story about interviewing several people lol I feel like Blanchard did this to thicken the book, else he could have just gotten right to the point.Blanchard really generalizes people, like when he says "- The number one motivator is feedback on results." I do not agree with this at all lol specifically because feedback is not my #1 motivator...Also the book is old for it's time, continually mentioning to make physical contact by placing your hand on your employee's shoulder etc.
That idea scares me and I don't intend to touch my staff in any manner at any time.
Finally, if someone has the ability to achieve a goal but fails to do so, there's the one minute bollocking.
The manager he meets is a 'One Minute Manager' and then, as the book progresses, he meets a number of the manager's staff who tell him about the three pillars of the method.
Prospective managers should move away from a formula and look to try to learn about their staff as individuals and as people.
Blanchard, Spencer Johnsonعدد الصفحات: 106التقييم: أربع نجماتالآن أتفهم لماذا هذا الكتاب له هذه الشهرة فهو جاذب في أسلوبه القصصي الواضح والسلس والمباشر والمؤلفان تمكنا عبره من عرض جيد لفكرتهم حول المبادئ الثلاثة لمدير الدقيقة الواحدة (الهدف، الثناء، اللوم)، وإعتقد إني كنت موفقاً جداً حين نصحت به إلى أحد الأخوة والذي يترقب ترقية لمنصب إداري بلا خبرة ولا دراسة مسبقة في المجال الإداري ليكون هذا الكتاب بمثابة المقدمة له ..وهو كذلك، فالكتاب يصلح ليكون بمثابة المقدمة لعالم الإدارة وطريقة التفكر المختلفة عن ما هو معتاد للأشخاص الجدد جداً في هذا المجال ..
Turns out, the three steps of managing (goal setting, praising and reprimanding) are not only a '"minute" each, but couldn't be more jaw-dropping obvious and right.
Eventually mastery will be reached and the person will be able to evaluate his/her progress alone and, most likely, will want to progress and achieve more.Be honest in assessing what's wrong and let the person know immediately so he/she can correct the incorrect.
Don't accumulate wrongs and explode when you reach the last drop, but tell it like it is and always refer to the person's behavior and not integrity.
Крутая, очень краткая, понятная и невероятно полезная деловая книга "Одноминутный менеджер" просто редкость в огромном мире бизнес литературы и это та книга, о которой, после прочтении, вы броситесь поделится ею со своими знакомыми! Иначе невозможно!Для любого руководителя книга - это находка ценою в миллиард долларов! Если какой нибудь руководитель, менеджер или управляющий ещё не прочел эту книгу - он многое потерял. И я смело отношу себя к последним, который жалеет, что не прочел эту книгу ещё давным давно... Но и наверстать никогда же поздно?!... Ведь верно?!... :)
Had to read for work. Treat people like people and not just worker bees. Common sense. Managers do NOT use this book that's for sure.
راقت لي قصة الكتاب واستفدت من الحكم و الأفكار التي حملها، وأعجبني أكثر أسلوب الكاتب الممتع والمشوق... قرأته في وقت قصير نظرا لعدد صفحاته، ١٠٦فقط، وأسلوبه الجذاب.أوافق الأخ محمد آل قرعاني في "مدونة كتب" حين تمنى أن يتحول هذا الكتاب إلى عمل سينمائي؛ حتى تصل أفكاره لشريحة أوسع.http://b-books.ws/?p=1422
Nice read and very light. Read it while on a bus-drive from Manama, Bahrain to Al Medina, KSA.
The idea is that the Y will set the pins and X will strike the pins using the ball.The catch here in the game is that there is a curtain in between the player who is bowling and the pins he need to strike (this is basically a communication GAP or vision GAP between two levels in an organization).Due to this curtain (communication gap) X doesn’t know how many balls he need to hit as target and how many he did as actual.
Because he was involved in their setup.Second TIP: Now when X throws the ball and hits few pins, in normal scenario Y shouts you missed 3 pins however management should say that you hit 4 pins (so instead of telling what he did wrong tell him what he did correct.
کتاب خوبی برای تکنیک مدیریت هستش . اما متاسفانه ما حسادت بین همکارا و نوع رقابت رو در نظر نگرفته
One minute Manager...
Can a manager finish all his job in just one minute?
That's what this book claims.
Blanchard takes us through a pursuit of a young manager to find the best practices of a Manager.
He meets a very efficient manager with whom he learns three basic principles of One minute manager.
The book though is a management oriented, the author makes us feel as if we are reading a story.
The examples shared by the managers could have been better.
A very quick book and easy to read.
I would recommend every aspiring manager to read it.

There are some great lessons in this book but I found the format of the Socratic Dialogue to come off as gimmicky. This book assumes a team that are all intrinsically motivated and can operate completely independently but even if you are still working on more basic staff development there is plenty to take away. If you can get past the quirky format of the book, it's worth the hour and a half to read.
One Minute Goals, One Minute Praisings, One Minute Reprimands
خفيف ، ظريف، بيخلص بقعدة وحدة .. وبيتلخص بصفحة وحدة
A helpful book with good times on time management.
Written in a style of fiction, The One Minute Manager presents through example and explanation a method of managing people in a short period of time using only 3 steps.The main idea behind the book is that to manage people quickly and effectively, there are 3 important steps: 1) Goal Setting, in which an agreement is reached on the person's responsibilities and then these responsibilities are broken down and recorded as goals.
I would recommend this book to anyone who is overseeing others in a managerial capacityThe One Minute Manager is a narrative about a young man looking for the most effective management skills.
The book includes topics on motivating, appraisals and sanctions as well as goal setting.I believe that the advice offered here is very practical and applies to most managerial scenarios.
While some may dismiss it as lacking in academic structure, the concepts offered here can help many managers become more effective in motivating and inspiring their employees to creativity and performance.
I would recommend this book to anyone who is overseeing others in a managerial capacity.
Ken Blanchard is a deceptive genius, and his brief books belie brilliance of how he presents his powerful points and themes.
He is able to share some solutions and questions of life's great mysteries and secrets in simple, consumable, and ultimately useable form.
I've always appreciated Dr. Blanchard's view of the possibilities of grading.
along with the answers to those unknowns.
That the unknown, might be known!
I like everything I've ever learned about Ken Blanchard.
The more I appreciate what he's spent a lifetime working to both share and help people practice.
The only reason that the thinness of the book was not able to entice me in reading it was the fact that most of the famous management books that you come across in your life become clichéd with time.
The good about this book is the simple flow of events and the expected evil is the obviousness of the secrets which by now has been covered in at least a dozen of management books in a piecemeal way of course.
We the management people don’t believe in plagiarism but just some old good research.
THIRTY-TWO YEARS AGO!It's a cute story - this up-and-coming yuppie-type interviews a successful business manager to find out his secrets for success.
Then he is sent to interview three of this manager's subordinates, who each give him one of the three secrets to being a One Minute Manager.
LOL!)It's all boiled down to three simple rules: Set Goals, Give Immediate Praise, Give Immediate Reprimands.The book contains a lot of information that is pretty intuitive, and I think it would most benefit newer managers or soon-to-be managers.
Touching people when they are being praised ---- sounds like a trip to the H.R. Department.
This is probably the worst management book I have ever read.
It is filled with so many trivial things that most people have already learned in their upbringing which makes the book completely unbearable.
As an old stress "victim" I take statements like that very serious however it is hardly mentioned in the book how this is achieved.
The good thing is that it takes a short plane ride to read however I will not recommend anyone doing it because it is a waste of time unless you have been raised badly by your parents and in that case you probably have bigger issues...
The book is short and humorous, a good read for non-readers.
The book takes solid mangagerial info and gives it to the reader handily in the form of three "secrets." Managers should cast clear vision and expectations, commend good work, and correct mistakes.The advice to be very practical and while some may consider it far too simple, it can help you a lot IF you actually apply the info- which I suspect most managers do not.
The one minute manager is a good read to "brush" up on those management skills annually that all of us can let lapse.
