https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/83422.A_Dark_Adapted_Eye
We'd be out at a club or jazz festival, and once the music moves into an obscure fusion phase, he'd lean over to me and say, "See, here's where the music gets too smart for me".I had a similar feeling after finishing this novel.
There were far too many characters to keep track of and I actually had to write down on a piece of paper the family tree to have any hope of continuing to read forward.
Amazon reviewers love this one, which is why I read it, but maybe this one was just too smart for me.
A crime has been committed by Vera Hillyard and she was charged, convicted and executed (with few hints about the victim and motive).
30 years later, A reporter who wants to write a biography of Vera approaches a woman called Faith (who is Vera's niece) and ask for her help.
So Faith accepts the task and while she at it, recalls the events of the past, where Vera's story is slowly revealed from the distant past until the moment of the murder.
I would have give it 5 stars if the beginning wasn't a bit confusing (my opinion).
Typically, Vine deftly interwove their psychological flaws, creating a sense of tension for the reader.
Her character development was vivid and compelling, although it was often confusing to keep track of individuals.Life during WW II was so well depicted, one could sense the suffering and privation that people in England were experiencing.
One could also easily sense the fear and frustration the people felt during the bombings in London.The narrative makes it clear in the introduction that a murder has been committed, but it is not until the riveting, stunning conclusion that all becomes clear.
Vine has expertly described throughout the book what may drive humans to madness and murder.
More later, but in my opinion, this is Rendell/Vine at her very best. It's also one of the most powerful stories she's ever written, and I've read most of them so I feel okay about making that statement.
Imagine driving down a country highway.
The posted speed limit is 55 and you are stuck following a vehicle traveling at 40.
You pull off on an alternate route hoping to speed the drive up.
Unfortunately you find yourself now traveling behind a combine going 30.
You can't deny the landscape is beautiful and that your car runs well is a bonus.
That, however, does nothing to alleviate the frustration of such a slow ride.
Distracted, you get lost, and finally forget where you were heading.That was my experience reading A Dark-Adapted Eye. It was not very suspenseful.
In fact it was a very illuminating and clever way to get the reader invested in the drama of the storyline, and the eventual destruction of a family.The story dealt with many sensitive issues, and without giving away the mysteries of the story, it would be hard to touch on and identify them all, but the one that stuck out was the repression and emotional constraint of those in England during that time.
It was evident in Vera's entire character, in her sister Eden's choice of lifestyle, and eventually in Faith's reticence to tell the story of her aunt.
For in Barbara Vine novels, Ruth Rendell feels free to break a sacrosanct rule of crime novels, the assumption that there will be a clear solution to a crime affording a final satisfaction to the reader.
Barbara Vine rations out the threads of the story very gradually, carefully measuring each point at which more information can be told about the family relationships and events which ultimately led up to the tragedy are revealed.Eden and Vera have an intense love/hate relationship, which worsens as the years go by.
This is precisely what Ruth Rendell did, in the later Barbara Vine novels, which to my mind are more skilled examples of her craft.Nevertheless it is a good read.
Wow what an introduction to Ruth Rendell/Barbara Vine.
So many have reviewed this book that I don't feel the need to say much but, if you haven't yet read any of this series (as I hadn't), run to your library or bookstore and begin.
Since this is the first of Rendell's books writing as Vine, it seems a good place to start.
(Now I have to read more and then some of her Rendell books.)I have to thank those who suggested and seconded I read Barbara Vine books.
This was hard work.
It has the flavour of a police report or schoolboy essay - it's very important to get all the information in & detail exactly who all the characters are & what they ate but style or interest are alien concepts to the author.
It's very dry & it took me a long time to get into it.
The novel seems to be building to some climactic revelation but there is none.
There is a sort of a secret but this is telegraphed from the start so hardly any kind of surprise when the narrator finally wakes up to it.
Nos romances policiais de Ruth Rendell (Barbara Vine) não são os corpos assassinados que são dissecados, sangrados; são as mentes dos que morrem, dos que matam, dos que sobrevivem..."O amor de mãe por seu filho é diferente de qualquer outra coisa no mundo. Ele não obedece à lei ou piedade, ele ousa todas as coisas e extermina sem remorso tudo o que ficar em seu caminho."(Agatha Christie)
Daft as it may seem, I make a point of avoiding reviews before I read a book.
Now, I’m not saying this was bad (quite the opposite in many respects; it’s beautifully worded) – but it rather compounded the main barrier to progress.At an early stage, the reader learns this is a book about the female narrator’s aunt (Vera), who was the last woman to be hanged in England.
It was a relief once again to throw in the towel.And at least now I can read some reviews and find out what I’m missing.
If you are looking for a light, easy to read book where the ending ties everything up in a neat bow, then this is not the book for you.
This is a complex read where the narrator slowly unfolds events of the past.
The time frame shifts and changes as the narrator, Faith, recalls almost at random, events from the past.
Thank heavens for Google!I know this is a book that will take it's place as one of the best I have read, a book that I will recommend to family and friends when they ask me about my favourite mysteries.
This classic crime mystery is on sale for Kindle right now at $2.99. You can get yours here . It's been on my TBR for eons! Maybe I'll get to it soon.
This is years after the fact, and Faith re-examines everything relevant about the life of Vera, and of the woman she murdered, Eden - her sister.
We know this: Vera killed Eden.
The novel is also peopled with other rich characters, for example, Francis - Vera's other son, considerably older than Jamie and much neglected, Eden - a snob and a person who knows what she wants and how to get it, Chad - was he the father of baby Jamie?
I will read more of Vine/Rendell, it could be that I was just not in the mood for a wordy book.
I read this because of the note I found at the end of Rendell's Shake Hands Forever, describing why she began the Barbara Vine series.
She describes them this way:"Ruth and Barbara are two aspects of me.
It would be a softer voice speaking at a slower pace, more sensitive perhaps, and more intuitive."Hm, I guess I like Ruth better.
This book certainly had a slower pace and it also reminded me of my mother's family stories, with lots of names of people that I had never met and knew very little about, and yet I needed to remember them.
I have just read my very first Barbara Vine novel, A Dark Adapted Eye. Once I'd finished it, I took a quick peek at some of the reader reviews that have been posted for the book on Goodreads.
They are fascinating and insightful, again driving it home to me that a reader's experience with a novel, though in some part down to mood and situation, is often a matter of whether or not the book (assuming the work itself is basically sound!) finds the audience the author hoped to reach.I understand A Dark Adapted Eye was Barbara Vine's (who of course wrote the Inspector Wexford series as Ruth Rendell) first outing.
The book is well worth reading and the family history and roll-call of names the reader has to become acquainted with is worth the effort.
One of my favourite authors, as well as favourite genre.Ruth Rendell/Barbara Vine always delivers what she promises to -i.e., toothy, dark, psychological mysteries, with lots of troubled minds and secrets, with a murder or two thrown in, which can be either immediate, or long forgotten.This is the first book written by Ruth Rendell as Barbara Vine, and towards the end, she gives an explanation about both her names, which is as interesting as the story she has written.In a Dark Adapted Eye, a woman murders, and is hung to death by law.
It falls to her half niece to piece together the facts before and after the murder, to find out why she did what she did.
Most of the book is from the view point of the niece, Faith, who comes across as a keen observer and an intuitive thinker.
I love Vine/Rendell's courage in leaving the central enigma unsolved.
The book also explores several of Rendell/Vine's favorite themes -- the cruelty, spite, and selfishness that can hide in a beautiful young woman; the hypocrisy demanded of "good" women; a woman's pathological love/desire for a child; kidnapping; disputed parentage.
And it's a great "period piece," evoking the styles and manners of pre- and post-WWII England.I highly recommend the BBC miniseries adaptation with Helena Bonham Carter as Faith (the narrator)!
Excellent casting, and very faithful to the twisty structure and moral complexity of the book.
I was very focused while reading this story but I still had a difficult time following all the different characters that appeared periodically throughout the book.
I found myself going back through the text multiple times to figure out what the character's role was.
This happened throughout the read.
It is not a very suspenseful book; the story builds the end toward what is revealed in the beginning.
One of the things I like about this author is her intelligent writing.
I also didn't find the story to be particularly compelling, and the ending felt like it dribbled toward a sigh of relief.
Two sisters, devoted to each other over many years, one carrying for the other like a mother.
How could the older ever have been convicted of killing the younger?This is the question that the novel attempts to answer.
Well written, it is a story of a British family over a twenty year period from the 1930s up to 1950.
This book was a bit of a chore to read, but worth finishing.
However, I didn't appreciate the many unanswered questions raised at the end of the book.
This book does not do that and ultimately left me profoundly disappointed.
Well-written psychological novel about a murder and its effect on a family.
Not your typical mystery, for what is in doubt here is not whodunnit or what they have done - we are told from the outset that Vera is to be hanged for murder - but who the victim is and why the crime was committed.Using flashbacks (something I usually dislike, but which Vine is an absolute master at) Vera's neice tells us how the whole situation came about, using as a frame to the novel the fact that someone wants to write about her aunt's crime and trial.And so the reader is dragged into a tight-knit but ultimately disfunctional family with more than its fair share of skeletons in the closet.
The author has succeeded in creating characters so unattractive and unsympathetic – our narrator, a young member of the family who gradually presents us with the story of her family's embarrassing history, constantly reminds us of what selfish, sneaky, pretentious people they are – that there is not much chance the reader will feel anything but the mildest curiosity about the whys and wherefores of the murder.
The atmosphere of the story is narrow and ugly, which is appropriate for the characters and events, but I won't look for anything else by this author.
This book would have been 5 stars except for a pesky issue I had with a device used to build suspense and keep from giving away future revelations.
There are lots of characters in this story, most related, which can make it confusing enough; but sprinkling their first names only into the action before explaining who they were had me flipping back and forth quite a bit.
However, once you have the characters in place in your head, the story takes off.
It was scandalous and engrossing and written craftily enough to supply some shocking revelations.
Because of this, and because of the inchoate form of this early narrative, it can be hard to fully keep track of things -- rather as if we were listening to an elderly relative who was preparing to tell a story but still putting her thoughts in order .
which is presumably exactly the effect the author was seeking to create.By the time I got past this stage of the book I felt I'd come really to know Faith -- not just the middle-aged woman who was telling me her story but also the girl, and then young woman, who lived through those past events even though most of the participants treated her as if she were someone perpetually peripheral.
I suppose in a way it's like the real-life cases Rendell harks back to, Ruth Ellis and Edith Thompson and there may be others.
So the uncertainty, in a way, is no more than you'll ever have in the case of a person who was hanged back in the bad old days, and Rendell's treatment of that is miles more satisfying than that of the Golden Age writers who always seem to reassure you that the culprit deserved to be hanged, damn it, and that the detective had possibly saved an innocent person from that fate.
This is the way thing happen in life, of course, and in criminal cases.
This was recommended to me by a coworker who said it was very creepy...Faith has lived under the shadow of her aunt Vera, who was hanged for murder when Faith was in college.
I was intrigued by the dynamics of the family, which is separated by class in itself - Faith and her parents are considered less well-off than Vera and her half-sister Eden, who aspire to be as upper class as their aunt Helen.
The author's note at the end, about her two personalities of Ruth Rendell and Barbara Vine and their different voices, was interesting given the voice of the story.I think I have a higher tolerance for creepiness than my coworker...
Since I like Ruth Rendell, I thought I'd try her alter ego, Barbara Vine.
This edition of Rendell's first book as Vine has an interesting little afterword by the author, discussing her decision to write books under another name, one she thinks of as another aspect of herself; she says she thought books by Barbara rather than Ruth would turn out "a softer voice...more sensitive perhaps, and more intuitive".
Indeed, A Dark-Adapted Eye is more introspective and more slowly paced than those of Rendell's books I've read.It deals with a long-ago murder, a journalist who wants to write a book about the murderess, and the murderess's niece, Faith Severn, to whom the journalist comes for information.
It gives great integrity to the book but oh lordy it's hard to read.Spoilers to follow that go beyond theories of who was Jamie's mother.
So I went back to the beginning to skim a bit, and reached the part where John and Vera's mother didn't love Eden...But Vera did.I think that with further digging a story more worthy of VC Andrews will emerge.
I still don't have a clue who murdered those kids, but I suspect that a pattern of incest will emerge in the characters, which is the eventual reason that Stewart drops the story.
Ahhhhh - what a splendid novel. I finished the book with a deep sigh of content and a great appreciation for the fiercely intelligent and moving story that unfolded relentlessly. Ostensibly this novel is about a murder long past but vividly remembered. From the rocketing start the book oozes foreboding and menace while confidently announcing both the murdered and the murderer, the tension builds as the circle of victims and accomplices ever increases. A splendid start, a tense middle and a shocking exit. Super.
