https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/581256.The_Life_Divine
This book is impossible to describe, you have to read it. If you feel intimidated by its sheer size, start at the last chapter and then work you way through it in bits and pieces. It is a stunning preview of what is to come in human evolution, written with soul and courage, and stretching you beyond where you think you can go... turn off all your preconceived ideas about where we're going and what you are capable of, and follow Aurobindo on his extremely courageous, adventurous and deeply human journey.
There is a reason why he was considered the intellectual leader of the Free India movement and this book is his magnum opus. It is not an easy read as each paragraph if not each sentence holds deep levels of meaning.
Been reading this for years....and loving every page of it...
Life Divine is the most inspiring books I ever read.
The message of the future. Every word read brings the seeker closer to that Reality.A message of hope - the dawn of a new era - a divine life in a divine body on a divine earth.
From my perspective the books attempts to reconcile a scientific view of consciousness with the views expressed in the Vedas and the Upanishads.
I do feel I have a better understanding of some of the concepts from the Vedas and Upanishads but I am far from an expert.
I'm not even sure I really understand satcitananda, which from my reading is the underlying concept that Sri Aurobindo posits as the attributes of our essence or the what makes fully realized person.The book is Aurobindo's philosophy of mind, spirit, and body.
The book reads like a western philosophy text.
If you undertake this text be prepared for arduous effort.
this summer, got to pondicherry. if you've never heard of aurobindo, then you sleep.
This will be a book-in-progress for a long time!
A quintessential book on the evolution of Earth and its intended destination.
"The Life Divine" is one of the books in the primary bibliography of my free ebook on comparative mysticism. "The greatest achievement in life" at suprarational.org/gail2012.pdf has been reviewed on Goodreads.Sri Aurobindo (1872-1950) is one of the most important Hindu mystics, philosophers and writers in the 20th century. The Life Divine is 1,000 pages and I have read it twice (in college and again preparing my ebook). He has 10 books on Goodreads...I have read four of them.
A wonderful introduction to and explication of The Life Divine.
IT WAS DARK WHEN THE WORLD CAME INTO EXISTENCE,FROM DARK CAME THE LIGHT.WE ARE THAT LIGHT SO HEAD FOR THE LIGHT.
never-ending sentences and paragraphs, but profound.
an epic. If you are interested in the highest reaches of human potential without fluff and self deception then this may be the book for you. It's a heavy read but I turned a PDF copy of the book into an audio book with Ivona text to speech program (Brian voice) and listened to a lot of it while at work. best use of time ever. it expect to go through it innumerable times until the philosophy becomes a status of knowledge. reading this revolutionizes what one "knows"
Para los que interese el pensamiento de este gran sabio y profeta, una joya más de su mente cósmica.
