https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18505784-the-pearl-that-broke-its-shell
The picturesque prose would relate a story of fear, oppression, abuse, love, hope and freedom.
Although it made their life easier, it also allowed Rahima a freedom of movement no other girl ever enjoyed.
But it also created the situation in which her whole life would become a tale devoid of poetry and prose in her new husband's house.Comments: I do not have the ability to describe the profound feelings this book has ignited.
It is also one of those books, written so beautifully, which forces the reader to wander word for word through the lives of all the courageous women in Afghanistan.
Maybe it is because I have a preference or fondness toward fiction set in the Middle East or maybe it is because Nadia Hashimi woos me in such a way with her writing, that it is impossible for me to put a book by her down.
Both stories were equally mesmerizing and moving.The reason I like to read about the Middle East is because I find the culture so interesting.
In this book, Nadia Hashimi writes about the custom of the Bacha Posh.
Finding themselves unable to produce a male heir, they turned Rahima, into Rahim.
Reading this novel was an unusual experience in that it was a fascinating, but at the same time,a very painful and disturbing read.
But sadly most of the time it was just a case of their lives deteriorating further and further.
The saddest and most painful aspect of this novel was that women living in modern day Afghanistan really have it no better than the women living centuries ago.
The book ends with a glimmer of hope, but the overall message of the book left me wondering if the men of Afghanistan will ever realize the injustices they commit against their women ?
I really enjoyed the ideas behind the book but not so much the execution which is why I was kind of leaning towards three stars at first.
The writing felt juvenile in places and then it would change and be very eloquent.
I think it's a better read for someone younger but I think if you're well read it's not as satisfying because the author lacks the ability to use language in a more subtle way and build the story that way.
Writing legend and authority on all things Afghani, Khaled Hosseini, endorses this book, and generously wrote thus:"Nadia Hashimi has written a tender and beautiful family story.
Her always engaging multigenerational tale is a portrait of Afghanistan in all of its perplexing, enigmatic glory."Always engaging?
This unpolished pearl certainly succeeded in breaking my shell and I gave up on it after a charitably gallant effort.
It's poorly edited, the writing is all over the place and there is a paucity of story, or character, development.
I wasn't even sensorily transported to Afghanistan.
I can only assume that the Hosseinis and the Hashimis must know each other from attending glitzy social events.
I was a little girl and then I wasn't.
I was a bacha posh and then I wasn't.
I was a mother and then I wasn't.3.5 stars.
I was really upset about how cruel some women could be to other women, especially the mother-in-law characters.
I understand that this is because they have no other power, but I still find it very sad.So why did I think this book was good and not great.
This is definitely not the general feeling out there when reading other reviews, so please try this book if you normally enjoy this genre.
The rule does not mean that I will no write a my thoughts on the bit that I read.
The novel is about the use of the bacha posh custom where young girls are dressed and treated as boys until they become of marriageable age.
The custom is usually used to save the honor of daughter-only families and to allow the women/girls in the house to go outside.
The bacha posh custom interests me and I am planning to expand my knowledge on the subject by reading The Underground Girls of Kabul: In Search of a Hidden Resistance in Afghanistan ,which is non-fiction and I hope the quality is much better.
Bravo, Hashimi on a wonderful debut novel! I thoroughly enjoyed this... I do think 'Birds Fly Away' would have been a better title! I highly recommend this to fans of Khaled Hosseini and I look forward to reading more by her!
I liked the story, it is the writing that I had a problem with.
It pained me straight to the heart, to read some of this.
Or if you like a big red bow to tie things up in the end, then this book may not be the one for you.
In my review of the story portion of this book, I compared it to And the Mountains Echoed because of the similar theme on the tragedy scale, but the writing in this book was no where near as wonderful and descriptive as Khaled Hosseini's.
Aparou o cabelo e trocou a burca pelas calças, tornando-se o irmão e filho Salvador...A mulher afegã vive no inferno.O seu destino nasce com ela, num prolongamento do DNA que a sociedade lhe impõe:Casar, Parir e Trabalhar até Sucumbir!Fora de portas o oxigénio é-lhe negado, a não ser que saia atrelada a algum macho, nomeado pela família para o efeito.Vive em cativeiro , num estado de prisão permanente, e só lhe é permitido sair na companhia dum guarda.Mas há uma luz ao fundo do túnel -- a bacha posh, que em afegão significa disfarçar uma rapariga de rapaz...E esta é a história de duas bacha posh que se bateram pela liberdade -- arriscaram, sofreram, lutaram, e transitaram da Sobrevivência para a Vida!...Cada mulher afegã é uma pérola enclausurada na sua concha.
The Shell Breakers With 5 daughters to raise and a husband addicted to opium, Mother-Jan had plenty of worries material!- This family needs a son, advised Khala Shaima, the eldest sister of Mother-Jan- You really think so, Shaima?
But some of them are shell breakers, and roll towards the light!For Western Women Freedom is a Right!For Afghan Women Freedom is a Conquest!"The pearl that broke its shell" may be a fiction, but it's a story of Thousand Truths
3.5 stars Nadia Hashimi's debut novel is a dual storyline set in Afghanistan and centers around two women- Rahima(21st century) and Shekiba(20th century). Both women are trying to not lose sight of themselves in their male dominated world.  Having read Hashimi's second and third novels, I think this might be my least favorite of the trio. There was a bit of choppiness in the writing and the storylines dragged a bit in places. However, the voices of the character are captivating enough that a newcomer would be able to see that the women of Afghanistan are dear to the author.
I feel I should have given this a higher rating since I read the whole thing, and it kept me fairly engrossed, especially toward the end.
But the writing was so, so bad -- atrocious would be a good word.
The dialog was stilted, and seemed so flat.
With two main points of view, from two different characters, one told in first person, one told in third person, you would think the author and the editor would have gone over every word with an eagle eye.
However the first person/third person switch was jumbled many, many times, making this an incredibly confusing read.
Despite not being as close as I’d hoped with the characters, as a woman, I could empathize with the main characters, root for them, and care about them enough to be concerned bout their fates.And to be honest, at 450 pages, this book could have been more effective, I think, if tightened up.
And this is not a criticism of the author, because editing could have easily fixed this quibble of mine, but there are more exclamation points within dialogue of this story than in the past 50 books I’ve read (I don’t think that’s an exaggeration.
Hashimi weaves a tail of two different women years apart who suffered from the oppression experienced towards woman in Afghanistan.
Many times I had to remind myself that this was just a story however sadly I feel that the way these woman were treated is not purely fiction.
This story did not shed a positive light on that.To think that there are woman out there that have to endure what Rahima and Shekiba went through is the part that angered me.
I would recommend this book to anyone who wants a serious yet entertaining read.
I loved this debut novel by Hashimi! It is at times a heartbreaking story of the trials of 2 women in Afghanistan. I came to care for both of them, and hated for their tale to end. I usually stay away from long books (this was 452 pages) but it was so well worth it! If you like stories of strong women, this is for you. Highly recommend!!
This is an Afghan custom where families without sons can cut their daughter's hair short and dress her like a boy.
When she reaches marriageable age, she will go back to being dressed as a girl.Rachima came from a family of five daughters.
I was 'bacha posh' and then I wasn't.
Just as soon as I could adjust, things changed." (384)Rachima had been told stories about her ancestor Shekiba who dressed like a man during some parts of her life, such as when she was a harem guard.
Reading about Rachima and Shekiba, their family dynamics, the patriarchal society, and the Afghan traditions kept my interest all through the book.
It was painful, not to read but to know that this is real life for women in Afghanistan.The story weaves back and forth between two women, related by blood, but separated by 100 years.
Sadly, the current story taking place in the 21st century really doesn't differ much from what happened in the early part of the 20th century with the main characters great-great grandmother....women abused, mistreated, and undervalued.
That would never happen to a boy, not ever!
I'd definitely recommend this book but know that the violence and sadness is real, it will get to you.
I don't remember entering but that's neither here nor there.
I don't remember when I started reading it so I just set it to today :-/ This book is about Rahima and her great, great grandmother Shekiba.
Shekiba's brothers and sister died of cholera, her mother went mad and died, and she lived alone with her father working like a man.
After her father died, Shekiba lived with horrible relatives until she was given away to another home.
Rahima had to pretend she was a boy since her family only had 5 girls but she was a strong character like Shekiba.
I liked it okay.
Much of it simply relays the story in simple language: this happened and I felt this and then this happened and I did this...
Given all of the glowing reviews, I expected more.
There's nothing wrong with that, but I expected more than expository prose.
I wanted poetic language and in depth characterization that drew me in and made me feel empathy rather than sympathy.
I wanted to care about these women on a personal level rather than on a global level.
The story, set in Afghanistan of the early 20th century and the present, tells the story of two women, Shekiba and Rahima.
Shekiba, born at the end of the 19th century,suffers a deforming injury, is orphaned, and eventually becomes a guard in the king's harem.
At the end of the 20th century, Shekiba's great, great granddaughter, Rahima is born to a father fighting for a local warlord.
The same rebellions and battles are fought over and over in different places and times by different women.Through the bravery and intelligence of the two protagonists, Hashimi creates a story that grips the reader's attention.
Rahima and Shekiba's stories and the issues they face are tragically similar, no matter that they were born about 100 years apart.
It's written less like a novel, and more like a report, listing off the tragedies that were faced by both protagonists.
Even worse, there were some points in Shekiba's storyline where I noticed that the person changed from first to third person within a paragraph.
This is a story that must be told, but I don't think this novel did a particularly good job in telling it.
This is the story of two young girls from the same family, who grow up to be women in Afghanistan - Shekiba and Rahima.
I enjoyed learning about the culture of Shekiba and Rahima and this window on their lives, whilst harrowing, was also enlightening.
In addition, the story gives insight into some of the political changes that Afghanistan underwent, mirrored in the girls' lives.
The only thing I wanted more of, was more of a sense of intimacy with Shekiba and Rahima.
Excellently written!!! For a story with over 400 pages, not once did I think it slowed or faltered in any way! As the time period and characters alternated, I continued to remain submerged in their lives! I am a Nadia Hashimi fan! Hope you think so too!!
An interesting concept but poorly executed. The writing was uninspired as was the development of the characters. Given all the awfulness that the two women experience, you'd think you would be very sympathetic. But, I just had no emotional connection to them. I read this for a friend's book club and though I didn't enjoy it, it is a great discussion book.
Više o dojmovima: https://wordpress.com/post/enauzemlji...
Beautifully and compassionately written, “The Pearl that Broke Its Shell” is a heart-wrenching yet hopeful story exemplifying the oppressive, unjust and often brutal realities of women in Afghanistan.
But I can pray for small things, like fertile fields, a mother's love, a child's smile - a life that's less bitter than sweet."This hauntingly powerful novel will linger long in my heart, mind, and prayers.
May the women of Afghanistan one day rise above gender bias and oppression, and come to know true freedom and the God of love, mercy, joy, and peace.
Перлата, която получи свобода за кратко: http://knigolandia.info/book-review/p...В “Перлата, която се освободи от черупката си” Надя Хашими проследява съдбата на две жени, разделени във времето, но не и в изборите, които стоят пред тях.
Едната, Рахимà, е още дете, когато се подчинява на обичая бачè пуш, за да може да се движи свободно по улиците и да придружава своите четири сестри навън.
Рахимà се оказва неканен гост във вече устроено домакинство, отнета ѝ е първата любов, а единствената цел пред нея е да ражда момчета.
Обикновена съдба на обикновено афганистанско момиче.CIELA Bookshttp://knigolandia.info/book-review/p...
Couldn’t even find a place for my small self to start speaking from within the vastness of this landscape. I don’t know whether to study this, comment on it, hold it, but for now my mind must bathe in it. More to come, in time...
You will forget about your sister Rahima and welcome your brother."With that Rahima's mother begins reorienting Rahima's sisters to Rahim.
She has begun her life as a bachem posh, a girl assuming the identity of a boy.
This is an ancient Afghani custom which allows a girl to live as a boy until she reaches puberty.
Because of all the restrictions placed on females in their society, Rahima welcomes the new freedoms she has as a boy.
If you thought life was bad for women there, this book will only reinforce this belief by giving you a detailed picture of what that life is like.
