https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93372.Akira_Vol_3
Do you remember those scenes in Scooby Doo where Scoobs, The Gang and the monster(s) would be escaping/ chasing each other through multiple doors in a hallway, often leading to some comical switcheroos? The first 75% of this volume was pretty much that, but for an hour, with automatic rifles, one tank, TWO coups d’etat and several magic nuclear children with bowl cuts. 2.7 stars.The final 25% or so, meanwhile, features one of the most stunningly beautiful and tragic events ever to be rendered in the graphic novel medium. 4.3 stars.
I was seriously ready to give this volume of Akira three stars.
Akira's political elements, these huge government experiment-gone-wrong cover-up and opposition vs.
terrorist stuff has been a staple for super soldier themed sci-fi stories.
So yeah, just three stars.
It isn't that unexpected from the story perspective, this (view spoiler)[Akira unleashing that black sphere of hell in Neo-Tokyo (hide spoiler)] is bound to happen soon.
Yet I'm still so struck with awe on how Katsuhiro Otomo made it.Katsuhiro Otomo's Neo-Tokyo parliament house.
Jar Jar Binks is here somewhere, pulling the strings.Akira volume three is yet another explosive and action-packed ride.
Chiyoko kicks ass.
10/10. HOLY SHIT. The scale of the destruction and the way it’s shown in the last chapter of this volume is INSANE. I love it.
es un relleno visualmente espectacular y con altas dosis de acción, con lo cual es áltamente disfrutable, pero realmente para seguir la historia habría bastado con leerse las primeras y las últimas 30 páginas del tomo.En resumen en este tomo se nos cuentan los problemas que empieza a tener el coronel para mantener su puesto de mando, el inicio de un estado policial y/o golpe de estado en neo-tokio y la lucha entre distintas facciones para hacerse con el control de Akira, parece mucha tela que cortar, pero lo primero simplemente se muestra de pasada, lo segundo tiene algo más de importancia pero está en un segundo plano y lo tercero es lo que ocupa el 80% del cómic, con lo cual tenemos combates y persecuciones espectaculares y muy buena narrativa visual, pero poca chicha.El último tramo del cómic sin embargo es apoteósico y supone un gran cambio en el status quo de la serie.
I loved this one! There were some new characters introduced. I'm interested to see what happens with all the old and new characters in the next volume.
A fun game of capture the flag. If, of course, the flag was a psychic-child with the power of an atomic bomb. Overall a fun read.
Katsuhiro Otomo, the series’ creator, fully showcased his skill at art and imagination throughout Akira 3 by crafting a multitude of fascinating setpieces for the graphic novel’s skirmishes to take place.The story begins at the massive crater created by an explosion in the end of the previous book, reminding the reader of the increasing level of danger that the protagonists must face for the rest of the series.
The story then gives a reader a tour of the current state of Neo Tokyo, where alarms blare out to its citizens and circular robots called ‘caretakers’ roam the city in an attempt to maintain piece.
If there is one thing when it comes to anime, people will always remember Akira.
When it comes to manga, this is a one read people should invested on.
I love Akira personally because of its sheer epic story of man versus Godhood and any thing that writes about power, this is the book people of all reader types should read.
I love Akira ever since its anime was released in 1989.
Not many authors or creators these days are bold enough to write some thing this good and this is one of the best 1200 over pages I have ever read.
I thought the first three quarters of this volume were very dry and uninteresting, full of repetitive chase scenes and no tension do to bland characters and vague plot just like the last two volumes. I was ready to give up on the series for good this time, but I feel like the last quarter really saved it. It looks like things could finally get interesting and start revealing all of the details that have been kept in the dark for so long. Hopefully the next volume does not disappoint.
Insane! Best science fiction graphic novel series that has now a place in my heart. I want to say more, but I do not have the time. I'm too busy ordering the Vol. 4!
More action-packed fast-paced story.
HOLY F*%K! This book is AMAZING. I can't put it down. What a thrill ride! I cannot wait to see what happens in Vol. 4, 5, 6!
What happened to kaneda, in the end?
Maybe the best reading experience ever. I haven't finished the series yet, of course, but the merging of martial law, religious cults, and violent gangs of the future propels the storyline that reads at a breakneck pace. Nerd nirvana:play the soundtrack as you read it. I may wait until volume 6 to save words for the review, but I can't make any promises.
The art continues at a level of consistent quality and detail that I still find unmatched in any manga I've read.
The action keeps coming, and, if anything picks up in this volume.
At times I found myself having to thrash around just a bit to get my bearings, a disappointment after the silky smooth flow of the story line and its events through the first two volumes.
But it did detract just enough to put this volume at a level just below the perfection of the first two, at least for me.
The half-way point, some writers would be content with just what happens up to this point and slotting in a neat conclusion to the proceedings.Thankfully this is not the end.
This and volumes One and Two are really just a well-worked launch pad for what happens next.
And one of the best things in the handling of the narration?
One of the central characters doesn't make an appearance until near the very end.
In a few short pages a whole story is told.
Well done, Katsuhiro Otomo.
I didn't realise I missed the character until the reveal, pretty nifty storytelling I'd say.
Espectacular final de tomo!!
Because Katsuhiro Otomo’s Akira 3 has fantastic art, engaging interactions, and improved character development it manages to stay up to par with the other two volumes.
There are minimal issues with the art expect a few where the characters look a bit odd(meaning Takashi), but the environment is always superb and very nicely done.
These character interactions lighten up the book and add a lot of emotion to the book.
The book also manages to develop a lot of the characters.
Akira gets no development until the end where he shows some emotion for the first time which is interesting.
Christian RagnacciExcitement, Suspense and Depth (Akira: Volume 3 - Book Review) The suspenseful, thrilling, chaotic story that is “Akira: Volume 3” is a great book. After reading it, I really love the book. It has a great story and interesting characters. From volumes 1 and 2, characters return like Kaneda, Kei, Chiyoko, Nezu, Colonel, Akira, Ryu and more. Akira has awakened, and everyone is trying to go after him and contain him. Many want to stabilize Akira to prevent any catastrophic events
From volumes 1 and 2, characters return like Kaneda, Kei, Chiyoko, Nezu, Colonel, Akira, Ryu and more.
Many want to stabilize Akira to prevent any catastrophic events and death and destruction, trying to protect the people of the city.
On the other hand, in this book, the reader really gets the idea that the Colonel wants to get and contain Akira because he’s very dangerous and cares about the people.
He doesn’t want the city to get destroyed.
It shows that both the Colonel and military and Kaneda and his group have been having run-ins with each other for awhile.
The story takes place in Neo-Tokyo, 2030 following an explosion that destroyed Tokyo and set off World War III, and now where odd things occur.
From things exploding, lots of killing, and also comedic scenes.
There are individual groups that continuously searched for Akira.
Many running and killed happened throughout the book.
It kept me wanting to read more to see what will happen to the civilians that are about to undergo a massive explosion, that could possibly destroy the whole city again.
I am happy to see what will happen as I continue this journey of Akira.
However the movie is condensed for characterization’s sake, and leaves out certain details that made the plot make more sense in the manga.Otomo loves both setting and action, as both are illustrated throughout the manga with care and prowess.
The art never looks to bedazzle you, but when Otomo wants to express the hugeness of a scene and the breadth of every event, it pulls off a sense of colossal dread that makes the story altogether incredibly memorable, terrifying, and human.The plot of the manga is a deeply engaging stream of events that grabs you by the shirt collar and never really lets go.
A manga series called Akira and coincidentally enough, has a character called Akira - what are the odds?
Akira, the character, just gets cooler and weirder and always leaves me wanting more more more!
And I am totally loving all the new characters that didn't make it to the movie.
Assuming that the ending of the movie will be somewhere near the end of this manga series, I am loving the foreshadowing for the popping scene.
I call it the popping scene to avoid spoilers, but I think those familiar with the movie know exactly what I'm talking about.
I'll get to that popping scene.
The intrigue and internal politics reaches a breaking point that brings them all together in a really fun way, complete with a slam-bang ending that ranks this volume pretty high up, and definitely brings the series to an insane mid-point.
The manga is definitely better than the film, which is saying something since the film is one of the best animated films of all time.The artwork remains consistently detailed without being cluttered up like something Geof Darrow would have done (although I have nothing but the highest respect and admiration for Darrow's work).
Todos ellos quieren hacerse con Akira por un motivo o por otro, no sabiendo las consecuencias que sus actos podrían tener sobre el niño, que todavía está medio dormido.La narrativa de la traba de este tomo se hace muy interesante gracias a los saltos que se van realizando de un grupo a otro, estableciendo relaciones entre ellos.
Sin embargo, pienso que es algo mareante la manera en la que Akira va saltando de un sitio a otro sin descansar.
Me alegra ver que es uno de esos mangas en los que los personajes mueren de verdad hasta cuando has comenzado a tenerles algo de aprecio.
El final de este tomo es perfecto.
Absolutely frenetic and raw action.
Every frame is alive, and this volume contains some of the most striking (and clearly labour-intensive) artwork yet!
The first few pages in colour reminded me of how much I enjoy black-and-white comic art!Volume 3's climax is driven by primal greed for power -- and what happens when you lose sight of the consequences.
The last handful of pages is exceptionally well-done in framing the cataclysm with its consequences.
I'd you've read up till now, you'll suspect what that cataclysm is...I'm loving the band of characters are that growing and becoming friends.
Chiyoko is A+.
These are some of the most incredible graphic novels I've ever read in my life.
If you are looking for something that contains depth of character, well developed storyline, incredible imagination, and spectacular art, you've found it.
Akira pulls no punches and is not interested in playing it safe - it'll grip you from start to finish and have you itching for more.
I was so excited to read the next one that I couldn't wait to get my hands on it.
Because my local library at the time had a waiting list for them, it forced me to be patient.
This is how I would advise you read them - in chunks.
What an ending to this volume. I took way too long reading this one so it seemed more disjointed than the last two which I blew through. I wasn’t initially on board with the characters that were introduced (the disciples of Lady Miyako), besides Chiyoko who is one of my favorites now, and I felt like the story was a little wandering and circuitous, but it cleaned itself up nicely by literally blowing everything up and hinting at some clearer lines in the sand. I know Kaneda’s not really gone, but how the hell did he survive?
Spoiler alert:............El tercer tomo del manga termina igual que la película. Hay nuevos personajes y muchos cambios respecto a la misma pero siento que la historia que conocí en el cine ya terminó. Supongo que a partir del tomo 4 comienza una nueva historia.Increíble cómo Otomo logra narrar de una forma tan fluida y detallada cada momento, desde los más impresionantes y relevantes hasta instantes mínimos de la interacción entre dos personajes.
AKIRA only gets better as it goes. The characters develop, the plot becomes more intricate, and the art gets more and more polished. The detail in many of the panels is incredible. This is an incredible improvement over the first two volumes. The last sixty pages of this book are some of the most cinematic and beautiful panels I've ever seen in a graphic novel. The revelation of AKIRA is stunning to behold. Vol. 4 can't arrive soon enough.
