https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25014114-history-is-all-you-left-me
People are complicated puzzles, always trying to piece together a complete picture, but sometimes we get it wrong and sometimes we’re left unfinished. Sometimes that’s for the best. I stayed up late last night to finish this book and, I confess, I had chills down my spine as I came to the final page. History Is All You Left Me is a deeply sad book, perfectly in tune with human nature and yet never manipulative as it explores love, friendship and grief between four boys.Perhaps Silvera is just f
History Is All You Left Me is a deeply sad book, perfectly in tune with human nature and yet never manipulative as it explores love, friendship and grief between four boys.Perhaps Silvera is just fantastic at putting himself into other people's minds, but I got the sense that this was a very personal story, told from someone who knows a lot about love and loss.
The story (or "history) is revealed by Griffin as he comes to term with the death of his best friend and first love, Theo.
This book gave me way too many feelings.
IT WAS LIKE EMOTIONAL WHIPLASH (in a good way!)I flew through this book over the course of a day and when I wasn't reading, I was thinking about when I could get back to reading.
It was perfectly woven together in a way that fleshed out the complexities of this situation while really ramping up the tension.
I can already tell that this is a book that will stay with me for a long time.If you're looking for a story that fully embraces the messiness of love and loss in a heart-wrenching and realistic way--THIS IS IT.
This was absolutely beautiful. Love love LOVE.
Adam Silevra's books are far too powerful and should be locked away in a vault where us plebeians are unable to access them because I feel like my life has been on a downward trajectory since 2015 when I read More Happy Than Not and have since stopped being a person and became sadness with legs.
The kind of book that is so devastatingly haunting in its completeness that no one could forget no matter how hard they tried.Griffin has lost his best friend and ex-boyfriend in a drowning accident and is revisting that place on memory lane they'd walked so many times....
There are a million and ten quotes I want to share with you all because this book showcases so many important thoughts through Adam's words, but I will be sure to gush in my spoiler-y video review coming this January!The characters in this book are CRAZY interesting.
What I will say is I read this with the knowledge I've gained from LGBTQIAP+ readers in mind the entire time, and I constantly found myself reflecting on how healthy the stories of these boys seemed, the positivity surrounding their experiences (despite the whole, you know, love of your life dying thing) and how happy I was to see sexuality portrayed in such a casual, authentic light.
"I mean it: Promise me." "I promise you: I'll never die."  History Is All You Left Me follows Griffin, a guy who is suffering the loss of his ex-boyfriend Theo, who just died in a drowning accident. On top of grieving the death of Theo, is he also struggling with his OCD getting out of hand, pushing away the other member of their 'squad", Wade, and finally meeting Jackson. The boy who stole Theo away from him. HIAYLM follows events from both present and "history" weaving together and leading up
History Is All You Left Me follows Griffin, a guy who is suffering the loss of his ex-boyfriend Theo, who just died in a drowning accident.
On top of grieving the death of Theo, is he also struggling with his OCD getting out of hand, pushing away the other member of their 'squad", Wade, and finally meeting Jackson.
HIAYLM follows events from both present and "history" weaving together and leading up to the moment of Theo's death and Griffins life now.
Things change once he starts thinking Jackson might be the only one who truly gets what going on, and figured them getting along is what would have made Theo happy.
"Just because someone is forgiving, it doesn't make asking for forgiveness easy."History Is All You Left Me is Adam Silvera's second novel, and it may be even better than his debut More Happy Than Not. Silvera tells a story of love, friendship and mourning in face of loss.Plot:Griffin loses his first love, best friend and ex-boyfriend Theo in an accident.
Definitely my favourite character.Wade is the third boy in their squad, half grudgingly accepting his best friends' relationship under the promise that nothing would change if they ever broke up.Jackson, Theo's second boyfriend is haunted by his past and turns to Griffin after the accident.Writing:Adam Silvera's writing does many things to my poor heart.
This is the moment of the end. This is where we give up hope on reversing time, where we abandon finding a cure to death, where we live in this Theo-less universe, where we say goodbye. I never thought I’d say something like this about an Adam Silvera book, ever, but here’s the ugly truth: I struggled to finish History Is All You Left Me.Really, really struggled.It’s not that it isn’t lyrically-written, like More Happy Than Not, because it truly is—and more.The writing is excellent, as is the m
He constantly reminded me of Aaron Soto from Silvera’s previous novel.Which is not a bad thing in itself, since I adore tranquil, trust-worthy, open-to-love heroes struggling with personal matters and trying to find their way… coming-of-age style.There is no actual problem I can pinpoint about this novel, though I did feel rather unsatisfied about the way Silvera explored the ‘‘mental illness—OCD’’ theme.I will admit that I have no close family or friends with a mental illness similar to this one, so it’s safe to say that I can only imagine what it must be like and not fully understand it to the core of its definition, but I couldn’t help but feel that something sounded unauthentic about Griffin’s OCD.Plus I think that with the theme of death, and love, and grief, and coming-of-age, and friendship… it was a little over-the-top to also try to develop a mental illness theme into the plot.
in history is all you left me we follow 17 year old Griffin who's dealing with the death of his ex-boyfriend Theo Even though Theo and Griffin had broken up, and even though Theo was dating a new boy, Jackson, at college - Griffin still thought they were endgame.
He starts a tentative relationship with Jackson, while exploring his complicated feelings and history with Theo.
History is All You Left Me is a book that destroyed me, but also which made me feel full.
4.5/5 StarsI'm sorry, but please don't be mad at me for reliving all of it. History is all you left me. Hey you!Yeah, you.Do you like happiness?And living?And having your heart be perfectly okay?Then this is  not  the book for you, but I think you should still read it anyway. Now, I have a confession, I read this book back in January. According to Google, 178 days have come and gone with this book existing in my life. And in those 178 days, I've lied to everyone stating this review was coming a
However, as a side effect of writing a review almost 200 days late (and 62 entire books later), I remember almost nothing about this book except I cried about twenty times just during the first chapter alone.
Griffin, though, knows that his love for Theo will outlive any obstacle and one day they'll get back together and live happily ever after.
Because not only do we get to read about Griffin and Jackson's journey of acceptance, but we also get to view the "history" part of this book, and perhaps my favorite part?
It has the kind of writing that is just a little dense to get through and I couldn't speed read (which is my aesthetic tbh; because I do everything super fast) but it was really BEAUTIFUL and ADDICTIVE and full of emotion and poignant thoughts without being pretentious or annoying.• And can I just say YAY for good OCD rep?!?
So while, sure, they frustrated me at times: they were also like real people and that's what I want to read about.• Nerds.
Look when you start the book you know a few things: (1) Theo is dead; (2) Griffin was very very in love with him; (3) but they'd broken up.
“You and I loved riding the L train together, always wondering if whatever car we were in was the exact car where our own history began, the prologue to what should’ve been an epic love story.” Very rarely do you come across a book that has the ability to snatch the air from your lungs, pull your heart straight out your ribs, plant a twinkle in your eye through the tears, and root itself so deep in your nervous system, that every-time you move - you move with the story. Please, please - if you
Very rarely do you come across a book that has the ability to snatch the air from your lungs, pull your heart straight out your ribs, plant a twinkle in your eye through the tears, and root itself so deep in your nervous system, that every-time you move - you move with the story.
All the little things throughout the story added up and I felt so heartbroken that after everything, Griff lost his endgame.
Adam Silvera, if I had a dollar for everytime your writing made my heart squeeze and my eyes water, I would be buying all 7.4 billion people in this world a copy of this book so that they too can experience this type of magic.
But Griffin knows Theo is his endgame, and that they'll eventually find their way back to each other and their love.As Theo's first year of college unfolds, it's no surprise that he begins dating Jackson.
Yet despite their mutual jealousy of the other, Jackson and Griffin start to open up to one another, since they're the only ones who truly knew Theo this way, and they're the only ones who feel this kind of grief.But no matter how much they confide in each other, the pain of Theo's loving someone else, coupled with Griffin's grief, is dragging him down.
...please don't be mad at me for relieving all of it. History is all you left me.  I wasn't expecting much from this one because it's Adam Silvera, and even though he only has 2 novels published, they're the kind of novels that one cannot not love. That's how captivating and beautiful Silvera's writing is. It's gripping, convincing, intriguing, beautiful. History Is All You Left Me was something different than what I normally read. It's a contemporary, something I always have read, but it's di
Even when he thinks he can't surpass the grief he feels for Theo, the jealousy he felt for Jackson, and the fact that Theo is gone, he knows that all he can do right now to surpass this history is to give out the history that Theo left him.
The book changes the perspective between history and the present, whereas the history perspective is about Theo and Griffin and their relationship/friendship where it mentions the first time they shared their first kiss, when they came out to their parents, when Griffin admitted to Theo that he is gay and that he likes Theo, when they had happy moments too when they broke up.
DNF at page 121.
Well, that took a turn that I wasn’t prepared for.
My history with Adam Silvera:More Happy Than Not — 3/5 ⭐ They Both Die At the End — 4.5 ⭐ What If It’s Us - 4.5 ⭐ So, I knew going into this, it could’ve been a hit or miss for me.
As soon as I started reading it, the writing style was already jarring me and the change between the past and the present wasn’t helping.
100 pages in, I thought I was getting used to the writing style, but there was just no excitement in picking this
As soon as I started reading it, the writing style was already jarring me and the change between the past and the present wasn’t helping.
100 pages in, I thought I was getting used to the writing style, but there was just no excitement in picking this book up and my feelings towards it would constantly fluctuate between dislike and indifference, neither was I getting attached to the characters.
By page 121, I was just feeling empty and wasn’t interested in continuing on, so a DNF it became.
It’s the kind of style of writing that’ll either work for you or not.
However, after reading 25% of the book I know it's not my jam.
That's not fair to the author, and that's not fair to people who read my reviews since I knew from early on that I wasn't liking this.
In fact, I know a ton of people who love this book, and I'm glad that they do because it tackles some really important topics and seems to do a good job handling them.
I just couldn't bring myself to get into the story and didn't want to force it.
Maybe it'll help me add pieces to the puzzle of your life."Theo and Griffin - best friends since grade school - became 'boyfriends' when they were sixteen.
Soon, in a very funny scene, Griffin and Theo run into Griffin's dad while in a drug store.
Jackson may be the new boyfriend.....but in Griffin's thinking, he had the longest 'love' history.
Griffin meets Jackson at Theo's funeral in New York.
New-boyfriend, Theo, went to college with Jackson in California.
At first - I'm sure Griffin wanted to throw darts in Jackson's eyes...
Edit: 7.25.17Ok here I am, like two-ish days after I read the book... And I'm still dead. This book was amazing.If you aren't crying by  sentence number one  I'm sorry, I'm gonna have to ship your ass to Area 51 cuz you are not. Human. I dare you. Read the next sentence without crying, or least without feeling the urge to cry.You’re still alive in alternate universes, Theo, but I live in the real world, where this morning you’re having an open-casket funeral.Could you do it?? Doubt it.I've added
Griffin and Theo declare their relationship at some family event, finally coming out to both sets parents.“We’re dating, and we’ve decided if you’re uncool with it, we’re going to live here in the trees.” The words tumble out of his mouth in such a rush that it sounds like one long word instead of eighteen separate words.“No, we said we’d live on the pier,” I add.Theo glances at me.
(They live in New York, btw.)So Griffin does what he thinks is the right thing and breaks up with Theo.
So Griffin makes Theo promise that he won't die, under any circumstances.
All the characters are so flawed and it was really refreshing to not be a typical loss story.
It was so much more complex than I thought it would be and I was really refreshed and impressed.
It was a story that you get so invested into the characters, and the history versus now narration of it was done so well.
Overall, it didn't quite live up to the hype for me, but it was still really impressive quality and it was heartbreaking.
OMG this book absolutely my favorite book of 2017 until 20100 it's just so sad and beautiful and unique and of course Adam silvera such good author to give us something beautiful like that
“I'm sorry, but please don't be mad at me for reliving all of it.
History is all you left me.”   Oh, where to start with this one.
I have a lot of feelings about this book, and I guess I’ll just go ahead and get this out of the way: despite the fact that I still gave it a decent rating, I’m tremendously disappointed, because I thought for sure that this would be a 5-star read for me.
I adored Adam’s most recent release,  They Both Die at the End , to the degree that I put him on my auto-buy li
I have a lot of feelings about this book, and I guess I’ll just go ahead and get this out of the way: despite the fact that I still gave it a decent rating, I’m tremendously disappointed, because I thought for sure that this would be a 5-star read for me.
Griffin, in theory, should’ve been a great character; he’s grieving and heartsick (we stan an angsty protagonist in this house), he’s a Potter fanatic, he’s a little cinnamon roll, and he offers a portrayal of OCD that, while at times incredibly repetitive, is brutally honest and takes the representation to a degree of accuracy (for some people with OCD—not all, obviously) that most authors aren’t willing to tackle.
Update: $1.99 on US Kindle today 9-21-17
There isn't a day when I don't think about this book and cry for it.........................................................................................................Just going back and remembering the moment my life stopped making sense.
So, let's get this done.History is all you left me is the kind of book that will leave you with all types of sadness, that will blow your mind and will make you feel as if you have lost something or someone as if you were incomplete.This is the story (or should I say history?) of Griffin, the love of his life (Theo), and the pain he brought to him with his death.
A compelling and cerebral exploration of friendship, young love, OCD, grief, healthy relationships, damaged relationships, broken hearts, broken people and selfishness--all from the point of view of an endearing but fascinatingly unreliable narrator. A completely different read from Adam Silvera's first phenomenal book, MORE HAPPY THAN NOT, and yet just as powerful. Absolutely a 5-star read.
4 stars!   “History is nothing. It can be recycled or thrown away completely. It isn’t this sacred treasure chest I mistook it to be. We were something, but history isn’t enough to keep something alive forever.”  History is All You Left Me is my first book by Adam Silvera, and let me tell you… it packed a punch. It was a compelling, heartbreaking, and beautifully written story. This is the story of Griffin. It’s told part from present day, and part from the past. In the present, Griffin’s heart
In the present, Griffin’s heart is shattered by the loss of his first love, Theo.
I didn’t know how to feel about Theo at times either.
I feel like this book went into directions I wasn’t expecting and I didn’t know how to feel about some of the revelations that occurred.
This book was truly emotional and gave me a lot of feels, but for some reason it wasn’t a tear jerker for me.
History is All You Left Me is a heart wrenching story of first loves, grief, betrayal, forgiveness, and friendship.
There's nothing quite like an Adam Silvera novel.
Both of his books are so heartbreakingly raw, real and beautiful.
The entire time I was reading this I felt like I was truly experiencing things through Griffin, and it caused me to relive some tough memories from my own past.
Anyways, I felt all of Griffin's anxiety, grief, guilt, happiness and longing as I took this journey with him.
He was a very real character for me and I won't soon forget him.
This was a stunning story, and Adam is an important and valuable voice in YA literature.
I really can't review this I'm sorry, just read it.
Perhaps my love for Adam Silvera's debut novel More Happy Than Not gave me unrealistic expectations for this book, but I was honestly expecting to like History Is All You Left Me a lot more than I did.Just because Griffin is no longer dating his first love, his best friend Theo who moved across the country for college, doesn't mean that he's stopped loving him.
Griffin reminds me enough of Aaron Soto from More Happy Than Not that he almost feels like a recycled character-- which means he's as aggravatingly self-centered and love obsessive as Aaron was.
Realmente el libro está bien escrito (mas no bien construido).Y por último hay que recalcar que la intención del autor es valiosísima; puedo entender la importancia de exponer historias de amor en la comunidad LGBT, una comunidad que muchos ignorantes la relacionan con únicamente relaciones carnales indiscriminadas y nada más.El problema es que las intenciones de Silvera se ahogan en una terrible ejecución.Este libro peca de relleno, ritmo lento, diálogos insufribles, situaciones irreales y demasiado idealizadas, personajes planos y pésimamente construidos, melodrama gratuito, pero sobre todo este libro tiene un problema gigante conmigo: EL "HYPE".TODO EL MUNDO ME DIJO QUE IBA A LLORAR MARES CON ÉL, que lo iba a amar y que me iba a cambiar la vida, que no había libro más inspirador que este y que por se fujoshi casi que sería una joya de mi librero… Yo solo puedo decir en mi defensa que tengo la edad, experiencia y conocimiento suficiente para decirles que tristemente estas historias “de cuentos de hadas” no me bajan ya ni con Nesquik.
‘we were something, but history isnt enough to keep something alive forever.’ once again, adam silvera has created a story that radiates gentle love and pure tenderness. and i had no idea how much i would be able to relate to this on such a personal level. i think anyone who has ever had a difficult time letting go of history could benefit from reading this.  4.5 stars
