https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18104607-beautiful-oblivion
Review coming soon!
Honestly, I thought that there was no way I would love Trenton like I love Travis, no way that Beautiful Oblivion could top Beautiful Disaster.
I would say that the book was just as good, and if you can believe it… I liked Trent even more than Travis!
I’ve fallen in love with a different Maddox boy ♥ Cami knows from the moment she becomes ‘friends’ with Trenton Maddox, she is in trouble.
It’s one of those books, just like BD that you could easily read cover to cover because you get lost in the story.
I haven't read A Beautiful Wedding (feeling like I have dodged a huge bullet about that now too), and as such now knowing Abby's reasoning behind marrying Travis was just another drop of salt into my already festering wound of disappointment.I have no doubt people will read and love this book in their masses, I really wanted to be one of those people.
2 stars  No! just no.I'm gonna keep this as simple as i can. It was shitty, Boring, unnecessarily book/money machine of a book. I'm not the only one who thinks that, mostly everyone does as well. Jamie McGuire is so not a good writer:● She hit the jackpot when she created Travis Maddix and that is THE ONLY good thing she ever wrote about. Just creating this character. Because as we know (the real fans) she screwed alot with that book because she wrote a hundred novellas (hyperbole). ● Jamie McG
Jamie McGuire is so not a good writer:● She hit the jackpot when she created Travis Maddix and that is THE ONLY good thing she ever wrote about.
● Jamie McGuire stop.
I read all of Jamie's books.
so,I really can now say with absolute certainty that creating Travis was just a coincidence.And that is fine, but stop ruining this awesome book to the fans and stop saying that " the fans wanted more of Travis and his brothers blah blah blah" because as a fan i know that i don't want this DISASTER.
;) Not gonna say much about this book because.
It's strange because did her publisher told her "Jamie, girlfriend FU*KING STOP.
THREE MADDOX STARS. “I was in trouble. Big, disastrous, Maddox trouble.”  I was beyond excited to start this most anticipated book, it feels like so long ago when Jamie McGuire announced that she would be writing a series involving the Maddox brothers and since then I've been more than ready to fall in love once again with one of this authors beautifully damaged heroes. 'Beautiful oblivion' is a complicated love story with plenty of swoon and sexy to go with it. It didn't quite reach my five sta
I was beyond excited to start this most anticipated book, it feels like so long ago when Jamie McGuire announced that she would be writing a series involving the Maddox brothers and since then I've been more than ready to fall in love once again with one of this authors beautifully damaged heroes.
It didn't quite reach my five star rating but I still felt like I enjoyed my Maddox fix, here's to authors we love and characters that we can't help but adore.What's it all about?Camille Camlin doesn't need any more complications in her life she already has to contend with a broken family, living independently and a boyfriend who rarely has time for her anymore.
After reading Beautiful Disaster, and it completely stealing my heart, I could not wait for more Maddox brothers.
I kept thinking how much better off Trenton would be moving on from her.
I feel like I need to re-read the whole book again now, so I can see where I had missed it or something.
(view spoiler)[ However, now that I think back on this, how did no one else know who he was.
I honestly think, this could've been a majorly good book, something just felt like it was missing.
Oh my GOD!!! :D :D :D :D :D :DWe get a cover, blurb and DATE!!!!!!EeeeeeeeeeeeeeeThomas' book :D *happy dance*LOVE THE MADDOX CLAN The Maddox Brothers series.Fiercely independent Camille "Cami" Camlin gladly moved on from her childhood before it was over. She has held down a job since before she could drive, and moved into her own apartment after her freshman year of college. Now tending bar at The Red Door, Cami doesn’t have time for much else besides work and classes, until a trip to see her
Now tending bar at The Red Door, Cami doesn’t have time for much else besides work and classes, until a trip to see her boyfriend is cancelled, leaving her with a first weekend off in almost a year.Trenton Maddox was the king of Eastern State University, dating co-eds before he even graduated high school.
But when a Maddox boy falls in love, he loves forever—even if she is the only reason their already broken family could fall apart.In the first installment of the Maddox Brothers books, readers can experience the rush of reading Beautiful Disaster for the first time, all over again.SO FUCKING KICKED AND EXCITED.
I will explain shortly.I took quite a bit of mental and digital notes for this book, so I'm going to give you guys a brief rundown of the similarities that this book has with "Beautiful Disaster":- Girl next door protagonist (Abby/Cami): Plain Jane heroine who comes from a big family with an abrasive father figure.
Probably to distract me from the times when she annoyed the ever loving heck out of me.- "Good guys are bad, bad guys are good" trope: This is something that annoyed me in BD/WD and bothered me in this narrative as well - you have guys who treat their S.O.s well, but the S.O. characters end up going with the people who treat them like utter crap for very little rhyme or reason as to why.
Beautiful Disaster was the first, and maybe only book, where I reached the end and had to immediately re-read from start to finish because I didn’t want to lose the all-consuming, totally-in-love book feeling emoted by Jamie McGuire's special characters and story.
However, there is one and I saw a review today that negatively referred to it being a love triangle, yes there are 3 people and love is involved but I would NOT refer to it as a love triangle per say, it did not wreck my feels or make me dislike the heroine, so I would NOT let this fact stop you from reading this wonderful story.Cami’s intention is always to do the right thing, so of course, they begin as friends, but her friendship with Trenton makes her question everything she thought she knew and things become a little more complicated than she anticipated.
I was a little worried though because I wasn't sure that I could truly love Trenton like I love Travis.
But let's face it, it's impossible NOT to fall in love with any Maddox!!
I can't say I loved Trenton more than Travis because that'd be crazy.
But I really did fall for another Maddox!
I can't believe Beautiful Oblivion was as good as it was.
Almost as good as Beautiful Disaster but it did lack a bit...
When a Maddox falls in love, he loves forever.
This was such a beautiful story and I did not see that ending coming.
4.5 Trent Stars ”It’s crazy feeling this happy…are you as happy as I am?” I completely devoured this book! It was a page turner, excitingly mysterious, angsty and had a limited amount of Pigeon scenes so for me it was good read! Cami and her boyfriend T.J. barely see each other. They live in different states, his job is top secret while she is attending school and bartending at Red.Jamie McGuire weaved Cami and Trent’s story amongst a large cast of characters and within the time frame of Abby an
They live in different states, his job is top secret while she is attending school and bartending at Red.Jamie McGuire weaved Cami and Trent’s story amongst a large cast of characters and within the time frame of Abby and Travis’ story.
The large cast of characters didn’t take from this story but added depth to the town and I’m sure for future books.
Cami and Trent had great chemistry and banter while she attempted to keep him in the friend zone.
Amongst the friends at Red, Skin Deep and the college crowd, I enjoyed the story and all aspects and avenues that future plots could lead.
I even felt that in certain scenes these characters, Trenton and Cami, acted like Travis and Pigeon.
And I kind of didn't need to know what was going on with Travis when we already read his book.I didn't feel Trenton and Cami had much of a connection, except for the initial wooing stage.
I also don't mind some extra drama, but I felt that the secondary characters were almost taking over what should be Trenton and Cami's book.
I really freaking tried to love this book, like I know most will.
Very intriguing to say the least, and now I am in need of answers!Once again I was blown away by the unconditional love the Maddox brothers have for their women.
This was Trenton Maddox story and I just wish I cared more for Trenton’s woman, Cami, than I did and also wish I would have enjoyed the storyline more.I think I am still so hung over from reading the amazing story of Travis and Abby in “Beautiful Disaster” my expectations were probably way too high.I will still continue with this series and look forward to reading more about the three remaining brothers.
I mean, duh, they are as swoony as the dickens!
Cómo Trent tiene un temperamento tan fuerte que en un momento dado está tan enojado que ella se encoge como reflejo… Quiero decir, obvio él no iba a golpearla, duh, pero como es que una pobre chica que fue expuesta a tanta violencia en casa termina saliendo con un hombre que puede ser, en un futuro, como su padre?… No es eso muy morboso?
O a lo mejor por eso esa niña está ahí, para probar que Trent es violento pero JAMÁS tocaría a una mujer o una niña, así que no hay problema… O sólo estoy leyendo demasiado entre líneas?Ahora, cómo se enamoraron estos dos?
JAMIE MCGUIRE IS A ONE HIT WONDERIs there a non-crude way to say: "McGuire shot her load in Beautiful Disaster and that's all she wrote, folks"?
The story line is a repeat of Beautiful Disaster's storyline.
2. Half of this book is a rehashing of Beautiful Disaster from yet another point of view.
The other quarter of this book is comprised of other people's relationships.
The book has zero energy, originality, chemistry, or passion and this includes the connection between the MCs. 6.
This is just sad, she should have quit while she was ahead.But there's a fate worse than being deemed "bad" that could befall a book.
The temper, the unpredictability, the passion put in everything really drawn me in reading more and opened my curiosity in discovering the Maddox brothers one by one, because I was certain they have distinct elements.Beautiful Oblivion is about Trenton, and boy, exactly like his brother, "trouble" is written all over his face.
Beside all of this "maddox" elements, I discovered a tender and caring side of him, a hidden part that was totally in love with his childhood crush Camille.The plot revolves around their relationship, over the development from friends to lovers and I guarantee you it will be amazing.
It felt like just yesterday I was reading Beautiful Disaster, yet it felt like it took forever for Beautiful Oblivion to get here...Cami didn't have a perfect life growing up, in fact she had a pretty shitty one. Working her way through college as a Bartender at the Red Door where she runs into the Maddox boys on a regular basis... but she grew up in this town, knows the reputation of these brothers.For Trenton Maddox, his family has always been everything. Losing his mother years ago, his fath
Trenton begins to pursue Cami under the guise of friendship, but with Cami's absent boyfriend it suddenly turns into more.
Trenton Maddox wasn't suppose to be the guy you'd fall in love with, fall into bed with - sure, but her heart was suppose to belong to someone else - but that doesn't seem to be the case once she gets to know the real Trent.
I have a feeling that the future books might change from this format just simply because the other brothers lead a different kind of life than Travis & Trent.
4.5 I love Maddox Brothers StarsIf you are expecting Beautiful Disaster 2.0 and a Travis-a-like Hero, then you will be disappointed.
There’s no “alpha” Hero, no crazy angst or intense storyline, but a sweet, light hearted read about a guarded girl being pursued by a tatted, but lovable boy.I went into Beautiful Oblivion not knowing anything.
Special thanks to Jamie for sending me this recommendation!!!! I LOVE GOODREADS!!!!:) SO EXCITED!! CANNOT WAIT FOR THIS BOOK!!!
Deep breaths!! We FINALLY have a blurb and release date!!! JULY JULY JULY!!!!!!!!
NOTE: DNF'd at 33%!Warning: This book contains a love triangle(This could take a while....) I don't read books that:A) Recycle old characters and put new names on them.B) Trash the main star all to make a buck.C) Rely on previous main star to display similarities in "new star." Oh, I don't know, dimples, tattoos, overall physical demeanor...No.D) Recycles similar stories. Trenton=TravisCami= Abby Abernathy. (Note: A bad girl knock off of her.)Raegan=America. Some might disagree with me, but all
I don't read books that:A) Recycle old characters and put new names on them.B) Trash the main star all to make a buck.C) Rely on previous main star to display similarities in "new star." Oh, I don't know, dimples, tattoos, overall physical demeanor...No.D) Recycles similar stories.
EXAMPLES (with names replaced)Travis's left dimple sunk in when he grinned.
Oh, and a spoiler: (view spoiler)[Cami is in a relationship with TJ in the beginning of the book, then she meets Trenton Maddox.
(hide spoiler)]Something worthy of mentioning: McGuire focused too much on the side characters and not enough on Trent and Cami.
Yipeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee!!!!! Who's ready for for some Maddox brothers???Hmmm.....THIS GIRL IS!!!!!!!!! Bring it on Mrs. McGuire! I need a NEW book boyfriend STAT :)
Trent Maddox has entered my world ❤️
Update: July 8, 2013GOOD GOD!!!! FINALLY! Update: July 29, 2014What in all honesty just happened????... in an alternate universe.I don't even know how to begin with this one as I am UTTERLY heart broken mostly because I own both ebook & hardcover paperback version of this and all I want to do is just wedge it under the coffee table so it doesn't wobble.Don't get me wrong... I DON'T WANT to give it a 1 star... I don't want to be annoyed by this... I don't want to be offended by this... But he
and I'm sorry you 3/4/5 stars givers - you are deluding yourself into thinking there aren't HUGE potholes in the story.
They were well formed along with support cast that just MADE SENSE.I do not want to go any further into spoiling details for those that still want to take this journey (if you want to PM me and I can vent and maybe you can talk me off the ledge).There are certain events that happen in this book that make absolutely no sense and even though this one has a great twist to the story line...
If being vague and again full of story potholes corroborating the twist...
Nope nope nope. I didn't read Walking Disaster and I'm not going to read this for the very same reason:STOP fucking up a good story. Beautiful Disaster is one of my all time favorites. But Jamie McGuire keeps bastardizing it with all of these follow up attempts to improve upon perfection and replicate the success of BD. But all is does is taint BD for me. So with that I say, run Pigeon. Fly away!
There wasn't a wow moment, or a time when i was swooning over Trent.
This also takes place during the time Travis meets Abby, so he does have cameo!Cami and Trent have grown up together since grade school.
Her roommate's boy drama was a part of the story line and at times was more interesting than Cami.
Cami's brothers seemed like a bunch a meat-heads though.
If there was less outside crap, maybe they could have had more time for sexytimes, or dating,just something..I also think the book missed the mark in portraying the unattainable Maddox boys.
Hell, Trent wasn't running from Cami!
I'm still left with some questions: (view spoiler)[Why if TJ knew his brother was in love with Cami did he date her in the first place?Why not tell Trent the "big" secret, in the first place?
(hide spoiler)]The drama with Cami's roommate love life was something I didn't care about.
I've been very tempted to re-listen to this one before it has to go back to the library to see if I'd feel differently knowing what I know or *if* I'd still be frustrated by the lack of communication and drama.
4 Oblivious Stars The younger sister of four brothers Cami never had a easy life. Their brothers are the only thing that makes sense in her life and although they are fiercely protective she is strong and independent… and slightly broken. Working at The Red Door and again having a weekend canceled with her boyfriend she ends up creating a friendship with Trent Maddox and used to be around men she believes that’s what they’ll always be: friends. Until Trent falls in love and you know what happen
4 Oblivious Stars	The younger sister of four brothers Cami never had a easy life.
Working at The Red Door and again having a weekend canceled with her boyfriend she ends up creating a friendship with Trent Maddox and used to be around men she believes that’s what they’ll always be: friends.
Until Trent falls in love and you know what happens when a Maddox boy falls in love.
Storyline:  A great story with another perfect Maddox boy.
And because of that end, I can’t wait to read the book of the next Maddox brother!
“I’ve had a lifetime of wrong. You’re the only thing that’s right.”  I should probably start this review with a small confession—I was not a Beautiful Disaster groupie when everyone was proclaiming their undying love for Travis “Mad Dog” Maddox and naming their daughters Abby. Not because I did not like it, but simply because I never read it when it was first released, and thus never embraced the craze. As curiosity got the better of me and I finally decided to dive in, while I appreciated why
I got why this story, this tumultuous type of relationship, appealed to such a wide and varied audience, and how it earned such a loyal cult following by providing the reader with the type of escapism that reminds us all of our first loves, of how impetuous our young hearts once were, and of how crazy and hot-headed that first rush of hormones truly made us.
*****4.5 STARS*****(BR with Melissa, Dee, Tiffany, and Sharon)I had my doubts when I first heard about this book.After being a bit disappointed with the books that followed "Beautiful Disaster", I wasn't setting up high expectations for this one.I was pleasantly surprised at just how much I really loved this book!!! This story seems to take place during the same time period of "Beautiful Disaster". Cami Camlin works as a bartender at the Red Door, a local bar that the Maddox brothers frequent. S
She did keep a secret for TJ and that was supposed to be the big mystery in the story, but Melissa figured that one right away, and I started to see all the clues pointing to what TJs deal was.He was the person in the wrong in this situation.Cami does realize that Trent is the one she wants to be with and there is some painful angst that will occur around this time!!
I felt like it took forever to get to the sexy times and that maybe we could have had a little more between Cami and Trent, but I wasn't disappointed.I was swept away by how deeply Trent loved Cami and his protectiveness over her.
