https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/82553.The_Night_Is_for_Hunting
first read: july 8th 2010  re-read: March 22nd 2018  So I found myself telling my own stories.
It was strange: as I did it I realised how much we get shaped by our stories.
It's like the stories of our lives make us the people we are.Amidst a brutal war with no end in sight, Ellie and her four remaining friends discover that their hidden refuge becomes a crowded place when they decide to care for an uncooperative crew of orphans.
Things only get worse when Ellie and Homer learn that mysterious visitors have discovered their sanctuary.
During the hunt, which lasts several day, the teens lose one of the children to exposure but manage to save the other four.Since it’s summer, Ellie and Fi decide to celebrate Christmas, so Ellie, Homer and Fi go out for a lamb and supplies at a nearby farmhouse, which just happens to be occupied by enemy soldiers.
The book is basically about babysitting the ragamuffins and showing the horror of war on children even younger than our guerrilla group.But you really feel like they’re on edge because the enemy is desperate to find them after the airfield attack, and traipsing around the farmlands around Hell looking for food to feed five hungry teens and four orphan feral children is getting really dangerous.
Okay, I LOVE the Tomorrow series, but this one is undoubtedly the nadir. In this book, no lie, the teens stumble upon a pack of feral kids, lead them out into the bush, and baby-sit them. For the entire book. Don't worry, the series does recover in book 7, so if you've made it this far in the series, just stick it out.
I think I started this 2 YEARS ago, and I have finally finished, thanks to the commute to uni :PIt's not that I didn't enjoy it, I just eventually forgot about it over time. So glad I began listening to it again, I can't wait to start the next (and last) book in the series!
3.5★A bit slow at times & there didn’t seem to be a lot happen in this book (a lot of just hiding out)but when things got going it was action packed with our group of teens coming face to face with the enemy soldiers more than once.
I am really looking forward to the final book (The Other Side of Dawn ) to see how this all ends & more importantly how our 5 surviving teens make it through both physically & emotionally.
L'idée ici d'inclure dans leur groupe des enfants de la ville, eux aussi orphelins et très méfiants des "plus grands" a été une bonne idée de la part de l'auteur, même si certains passages sont assez durs à lire émotionnellement.....Cette saga est culte en Australie depuis plus de 20 ans, et cela, à juste titre.
Cette saga est étudiée dans les lycées australiens, c'est vous dire sa qualité et son impact sur ce pays !....Vous aussi, rejoignez les fans d'Ellie, Homer, Fiona, Lee, Kevin et leurs nouveaux amis !
Hat mir besser gefallen als der letzte Teil und ich liebe die Reihe weiterhin.Trotzdem bin ich froh, dass ich nur noch das letzte Buch vor mir habe. Ich will endlich wissen, wie es für Ellie und Co endet.
Ellie manages to break out of her boot and rescue both Fi and Gavin, before taking a farm bike and riding it through the house (and through a few of the enemy...) to rescue Homer, and they manage to eventually make it back to camp.There's also a "small" issue with enemy soldiers being camped up around Tailor's Stitch (basically the entrance to hell), and towards the end of the novel Ellie and Homer (who head up to Tailor's Stitch to be on look-out) are almost ambushed and immediately killed, but instead manage to hold off the enemy in what is essentially a 6 on 2 (or something similar) ratio, long enough that back-up can come from Hell and take out the enemy from behind.
"A feeling in my bones tells me that the climax is coming."  3.5/5Buena continuación, pero con un ritmo similar al anterior, es decir, lento. Me gustaron algunas decisiones que tomó el autor en cuanto a los nuevos personajes y algunas escenas fueron preciosas de leer. Sin embargo, tengo un poco de nervios por saber que solo queda un libro en la saga y no se cómo se van a resolver las cosas."I found myself telling my own stories. It was strange: as I did it I realised how much we get shaped by
"A feeling in my bones tells me that the climax is coming."
Sin embargo, tengo un poco de nervios por saber que solo queda un libro en la saga y no se cómo se van a resolver las cosas."I found myself telling my own stories.
It was strange: as I did it I realised how much we get shaped by our stories.
It's like the stories of our lives make us the people we are.
If someone had no stories, they wouldn't be human, wouldn't exist.
And if my stories had been different I wouldn't be the person I am."
Just loving it - although I admit that I thought this one started off a LOT slower than any of the others, and I was originally thinking that it was going to be the first three-star book of the series o.O but then of course it picked up and I got way more into it.
The second half of the book was a lot more fast paced than the start, which was great.
Actually, I was certain he wouldn't make it out of the car boot fiasco alive!Christmas was really sweet too, I loved that part :) Made me wonder what the date actually was, I kept imagining someone from NZ on the radio saying it was April or something XD
I was wrong.
This was a bit slower paced and not quite as action packed as the previous books however for me it was even more emotional with adding the young feral children.
I loved it!
They cling to any normalcy they can like with the pseudo Christmas and playing games and telling stories.
The little ferals..
I cried when they found Darina.
I cried when Jack left weedy flowers for Ellie..
In the end this book was not a filler it was getting back in touch with the emotional side of the war and its toll on the teens and little ones.
Read all my reviews on http://urlphantomhive.booklikes.com This book is a bit slow at times, but still, looking back, quite a lot is happening as it becomes increasingly difficult to find food not just for themselves but also a couple of kids they have rescued, and then get lost. The end is nearing, and it is clear from this book. One more to go!
There were a few real world topics this book touched on in a way i thought was a little disrespectful, but also true to said real world situations.
Not a fan of bad things happening and the characters reactions not helping the situation.Lots more progress in this book.
New side characters brought both refreshing and devastating scenes to the story.
Also, a new perspective which is nice.
Fi could do with a little more push in personality.
Kevin’s character development seems to have back pedalled unfortunately.
And I’m not sure where Lee’s personality went but it’s probably to late to say adios.
3.5 STARS, enjoyed this one also and it is good to see the characters continue to develop and take on more 'adult' responsibilities. PLENTY OF ACTION
Ellie and her friends have decided that it's time for them to leave Stratton and return to the safety of Hell.
Still reeling from Lee's actions, Ellie becomes determined to rescue a group of feral orphans.
What Ellie hasn't counted on is that the orphans may not want to be rescued.
When the orphans were introduced in the previous book I found them to be a bit annoying and distracting so I was a bit apprehensive of reading this.
There is a slower paced section where the teens arrange Christmas for the orphans, but unlike slower parts of previous books this doesn't drag.
Ellie and her friends are still hiding out in Stratton, after deciding not to return to New Zealand.
That was until their safety is threatened, they decide to return to Hell once more.
When the safety of Hell is threatened for the first time during the war.
Gavin was a little kid that they found and helped out in the middle of the war.I think ages 16-22 should read this book.
The book follows the experiences of a group of teenagers who go camping in a serene clearing called 'Hell' and return to find their homeland invaded, their beloved pets dead and their families held prisoner at the local showground.
The Night Is For Hunting, the sixth book in the Tomorrow series by John Marsden, is as can't put it down as the previous ones.
I guess that is what this whole series is about - realizing that even though there is evil around, there is always some good somewhere and we should cherish it.
And the ending to this book feels different too.
While in the previous stories the endings were true epilogues, a nice wrap of what's just happened, this one reads more like a prologue, a prelude of what could be coming.
I'd recommend this book, the whole series, to anyone, any day.
I'm not sure why younger kids had to be added to the mix.
Once they get they kids to Hell, I don't understand why they don't ask the New Zealand people if they can take the children.
New Zealand was willing to pick them up at the end of the last book so it wouldn't have hurt to ask if they could come get the children in this one.
At least give a reason why the teenagers didn't ask New Zealand about it.
All the same, I'm eager to read the last book to see what happens.
I think a lot of people probably will like this book less than all the others.
Mainly because by book 6 if you're still reading, it's because you've got the formula down, you expect some explosions and close calls, and you like that!
(I do) This book doesn't follow the formula the previous 5 did, but the tension is still high.
I especially liked the last few pages, which are an excellent reminder for us all, no matter how young or old.
How can I say much that is meaningful without giving too much away?!This is the second last book in the Tomorrow series.
Surprisingly, so late in the series, there is an introduction of some new characters.
There is also some development of the existing characters.I think the biggest difference about this book was how most of the plot concentrated on the development of the new characters and their integration into the group.
There was a different type of suspense here, but I did think the new characters was an interesting twist to the series.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book, it was an interesting deviation in the overall plot, but the negative is that it didn't fix that deviating until the very end of the book.
What I'm trying to say, all that really happens that is important is character growth and one other thing which I shall not say.
I'm saying that if you didn't read this book and just went on to the book after you would be able to find out what happened fairly easily, because not much did happen.
I enjoyed the change but I want to see the story progress like any other reader.
Overall though it was quite good.
This is the 6th book and the 2nd last in the final series. The teens had to witness so much death in this book that it was emotionally exhausting to read. Also they soon discover that even their hiding place, ‘Hell’, is not safe any more as the enemy are closing in. The ending left me hanging so you know something very big is going to happen in the final book. I extremely anxious now to find out how it’s all going to end.
The tomorrow series is a great series and it makes me want more books. The night is for hunting Is one of its outstanding books. There is a lot of suspense keeping the reader on their toes and making me not being able to take my eyes off the book. Overall is a terrific book the everyone should read.
This book started out great, with a big chase/escape scene, and i thought, yes, here we go again! Unfortunately, 5 more young kids, who were little shits most of the time, were introduced. They ran away, and the other characters literally spent about 50 pages looking for them. after that it got back on track. I can't wait to read the last one!
I think I liked this one the best so far. Not that the others were particularly lesser than this one, but I felt like there was something a little different, a bit more in this one, particularly the way the epilogue worked. It really leads up well to the final instalment.
I'm so amazed Marsden still manages to make every single one of these books so engaging and exciting. The mood of this one is a bit different from the previous five, and now I'm really looking forward to the last book! Though, I will REALLY miss the series once it's over. :P
Man, these are getting long. I'm getting to the point where I can't wait for them to be over. This one was definitely the least interesting so far, and I hope the final one gets exciting again.
This book was kinda uneventful for me. Nevertheless, I'm excited to see how this series wraps up!
I am a horrible person but I really didn't care for the children.
Quality Rating: Four StarsEnjoyment Rating: Four StarsIt's been a couple of years since I read the previous book in the Tomorrow series, and I was getting a little worried I'd forgotten too much or I wouldn't be able to get into it again.
It feels like the plot never stops, but there's so much detail about things that seem boring in theory (I don't have a particularly burning interest in sheep shearing or other farm activities) but weren't when I was actually reading them.
I still don't quite understand how a book that doesn't seem to stop the action or the tension can get you so invested that reading about the most mundane things doesn't feel boring.
