https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77615.Prisoner_s_Base
A woman showed up at Nero Wolfe's house.
Usually she would not be even let in with such strange request, but Archie just had a disagreement with his employer, so he put her in the guest room while Nero Wolfe had his regular sessions with orchids.
Nero Wolfe does not have a client in the traditional sense, but he has to leave his house to answer the summons from the police.
As a mystery it is quite good and I was able to figure it out a little time before Nero Wolfe explains it.
A woman who unsuccessfully seeks Nero Wolfe's services is later found murdered. Archie feels responsible, and temporarily leave's Wolfe's employ to solve the case. Another good entry in the series.
Reading a Nero Wolfe book for the first time is always a joy.A woman makes an appearance at Wolfe's brownstone on West 35th Street in New York City.
Priscilla Eads was murdered after Wolfe turned her out of his house, Archie has taken a leave of absence, and the police had taken Wolfe from his house to the police department for questioning.
Wait until you find out who it is.This was a slight departure from the usual story in that Archie has taken a leave of absence and works with the police but fear not as the ending features the usual gathering of suspects in Wolfe's office where he will reveal the identity of the murderer.
A nice business as usual Nero Wolfe mystery with Archie stepping to the front of the stage. Nice twist in the plot although the attitudes toward women were rather backward.
Much of the story revolves around the legal issues of possession of goods after an owner dies.
When the legal heir dies, the next in line is found murdered.
But, obvious or not, Nero Wolfe can only work on cases where he manages to find evidence of wrong doing that he can use as a basis for action.
Stout manages to provide lots of potential suspects for the murders in this book.
Once you manage to keep all the characters straight, the story moves on in a logical fashion.
Description: Hours after Priscilla Eads pleads with him to take her case, Nero Wolfe is shocked to find out that she was murdered, and soon he is investigating her fortune-hunting husband and greedy business associates.
This was my first Nero Wolfe book. I wasn't so crazy about the story overall, but I did get a big ol' kick out of Archie and Nero and their relationship. I think I'm going to have to start at the beginning of the series in order to get a better appreciation of it.
Which leads to a rather unusual situation: Wolfe takes the case, with Archie as his client.The resolution of this particular mystery involves an assortment of towel-making execs, an attractive stylist of dubious talent, a comely (if slightly nutty and not terribly brave) widow, a handsome young South American, a young Hercules (Archie's description), and a slimy lawyer.
When Wolfe's investigation is not progressing rapidly enough for Archie's taste, Archie's obsession with finding the murderer leads him to offer his services to the police.
This 21st (?) entry in the Nero Wolfe series was interesting because (view spoiler)[Archie ended up as Wolfe's client! (hide spoiler)]. The plot was good; I ended up suspecting several characters and though the culprit was one of those, I can't claim to have figured it out myself.Michael Pritchard does a good narration.
It's hard to give a Nero Wolfe novel anything less than four stars. But this came fairly close. The mystery, as in many of the Wolfe novels, was pretty good, but the solution was a wee bit underwhelming. I enjoyed the cast of characters, but there was a lot of development to zero end. 90% of it was red herrings, and the key was a bit of unseen fummerry. Still, a good read, and some lovely Stout writing. 3.5 rounded up.
I always enjoy reading the Nero Wolfe books.
Like most Nero Wolfe novels I've read, the solution of the crime doesn't come down to the tiny details of the crime scene, but more about motive and the psychology of the killer.
(hide spoiler)] The business aspects of the novel also seemed kind of unrealistic, but maybe that was part of the point regarding the possible motives of the board of directors.The endings of these books are usually pretty abrupt after the denouement but there's often at least a paragraph or so of wrap-up.
A casa di Nero Wolfe, questa volta, “Sulla soglia c’era un essere umano di sesso femminile, di vent’anni o poco più, provvisto di due occhi fuori ordinanza, di un bel personale sano, di una valigia di pelle meravigliosamente lustra e di una cappelliera.”È una donna, in elegante abito color pesca, che resta misteriosa per poco e riesce a destare in Wolfe la sua proverbiale avversità per il genere femminile.
In lei è tutto mistero e seduzione, peccato che non vada a genio a Wolfe, che la mette alla porta e, quindi, il cuore infranto di Archie Goodwin può solo sognare la tenerezza di quel sentimento, che avrebbe potuto essere.Perché Priscilla Eads voleva alloggiare in casa Wolfe e non in un albergo?
The same date that the young woman locked in Wolfe's 3rd floor room had stated as the date she wanted to stay through.
When Archie sees the picture of the missing woman, Pre Eads, he knows it's the young woman he had interviewed earlier.
When her guardian leaves, Nero sends for the Eads woman and throws her out.
A few hours later, Pre Eads is found strangled on her living room floor.
Her maid had been strangled in the same manner a few hours earlier to get Ead's key.
Archie feels responsible and finds himself a Nero Wolfe client.
I've not read as many of these Nero Wolfe whodunnits to give me a feel for the series and how it progresses.This one, as usual (?) with more action by assistant Archie Goodwin than by the wilfully house-bound Wolfe, is a good, solid, crime novel involving dames, inheritance, deaths, and a smallish circles of suspects, likely beneficiaries from a murder.
Smart and amusing.
Likeable recurring characters, and a good twist at the end.
Solid, but certainly 4* at best.The GR blurb:'Hours after Priscilla Eads pleads with him to take her case, Nero Wolfe is shocked to find out that she was murdered, and soon he is investigating her fortune-hunting husband and greedy business.'
See my review of "Full House" for comments
Stellar!
His Nero Wolfe novels are all great fun to read, in part of the story itself, but also for the distinctive voice of the narration.
In Prisoner's Base (the name seems to be based on a version of the game tag), a young woman shows up at Wolfe's residence, wanting to simply pay to stay to be kept hidden until the end of the month.
As Archie hides her away and tries to explain this to Wolfe (who he knows of course will refuse), someone else shows up: a lawyer, wanting to pay Wolfe to find this same young woman.
A successful novel has to catch a reader’s attention right away and in Prisoner’s Base Rex Stout does this admirably by having an apparently wealthy young woman arrive on Wolfe’s doorstep asking to move in for a week.
Wolfe is not fond of women or changes to his routine so this seemingly innocent request is an unthinkable intrusion for him.
It’s a good tale and I thoroughly enjoyed reading it, but I feel that once again Stout plays unfair with the reader.
Admittedly, I failed to form the hypothesis that Wolfe formed that led him to send Saul Panzer after the secret info, but it still feels unfair.
I had always wanted to try a Nero Wolff book.
Did I see an American series of his cases long ago?Archie Goodwin is his Watson, so to speak, and narrates the story.
His Americanisms from the 1950s had me a bit foxed at times but I ploughed on.This book was a dangerous place for innocent females with quite a few being cruelly dispatched.
Poor Archie is left with a terribly guilty conscience.So you have to content yourselves with the who and the why and the unraveling was very interesting as were all the suspicious suspects.I did enjoy it and would look for another.
Another thing is that there was a lot of talk-talk in the book, and I'm not sure that in 1952 all of that travel between South and North America would have gone quite that quickly.
Jet travel didn't become common until the sixties, ten years after this was written.
I suppose Stout knew his public didn't know.Also, not nearly enough of Fritz in this installment.
I'm a Fritz Fangirl!I'm not used to seeing Archie and the NYPD on such good terms; it was unnerving, LOL.
When a young woman whom Archie has allowed to spend the night in their house is later killed, he feels responsible and does his utmost to get Wolfe to get to work on the case.
As Wolfe drags his feet, Archie decides to go it alone.
Two other murders also occur; the usual clashes between the detectives and the police are there; and the culprit is revealed after a re-enactment of a session at Wolfe's house which occurred just before the third murder.
The Nero Wolfe stories are always a good read, but this is one of the best.
I love when Archie is put in the forefront of the story and this one is definitely about him and his "personal problem".
Also features Archie being friendly with Purley Stebbins and victims I actually felt bad for.
ALSO FEATURES ARCHIE TAKING INDEFINITE LEAVE FROM HIS EMPLOYMENT.
Just, very fun and one of the more unique novels in the series.
(Stout always tries to make them unique but a lot of the time he does that by giving more emotional involvement to Wolfe or changing up the setting, which to me does not produce the same effect.
Archie's the character I invest in, not Wolfe.)
One of Archie's jobs is to activate the sedentary Wolfe.
And regular readers know the lengths to which he will go to get Wolfe on the job.
This time a creative effort goes terribly wrong and the two detectives find themselves quickly immersed in a disturbing mystery with a particularly nasty killer and a South American connection.
Despite Wolfe's egregious misogyny Archie is a lover of women and psychologically astute.
Watch for his finely etched portrait of a minor character named, Sarah Jaffee.
Good on the beach at one of those everything included southern destinations over some watered down beer and the buffet lunch attempting to digest in your gullet.
This is a special Archie and Nero Wolfe one as they lack the usual client and payment for solving a string of murders.
I think I certainly never can pick for sure the right who done it- but I really enjoy the civility and tone of the mystery, the thorough knowledge of NYC, and the just incredible non humble actions of Nero and Archie in solving this one.
Unfortunately, the female characters lack something in description if Archie is the judge; and the most likeable ones get killed off in this book- but, I still like the whole series as an incredibly well written and intelligent bit of writing.
I felt real bad for Archie in book 21 as follows:Archie is Nero's client, because he feels responsible for the death of a young woman who sought asylum at Nero's house. In the sequel two other women are strangled as the result of a stupid will and a claim on it foolishly certified. The case is complex, the parties are hostile (so are Nero and Archie) and for once the police behave reasonably and civillyPlease see: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prisone...
A change of pace.Archie is Wolfe's client!! That is interesting enough, but more fascinating is the puzzle, and Archie's quest for the murderer whose agenda cause Archie to pursue him with revenge on his mind, to capture and turn over a murderer who kills two people for which Archie feels responsible. His last conversation with Sarah Jaffee is agonizing, but his presence of mind and final action is satisfying!!
Rex Stout is my favorite author of all times so it of no surprise that I loved this book. The characters are so well rounded even the non main characters of the season and the world building and scenery is so well described. Granted I am very biased as I love everything Archie Goodwin, Nero Wolfe, or Rex Stout.
I find this a very unsatisfying book. The primary murder victim is additionally victimized by a set of suspects but the actual murderer arrives deus ex machina. More punishment needs to have been meted out.
My first Nero Wolfe.Dialogue right out of fifties cop dramas. Archie Goodwin is a sympathetic sidekick, and Nero Wolfe is just a shadow in the story. I'm assuming this will be the standard for the series. It was pretty obvious the cast of suspects would not include the murderer.
Here, the master's touch: not only did I get the suspense, the story, the feelings, and the people, but I was allowed to solve it, glory in that, and watch it come true. Rex Stout does that in this novel without anymore than the touch of a feather.
