https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11433.Redemption
The main character in this story, Kari, deeply believed that God wanted her to stay with her husband and resolve the problems they had, and there is absolutely no shame in trying to fix a broken marriage.
(hide spoiler)]I also believe that Kari's persistence to follow what she believed God wanted to her to do concerning Tim was extremely encouraging.
She didn't believe she had the strength to fight for a marriage that she believed God wanted to be healed but her husband didn't.
Karen Kingsbury writes books that deal with issues all christians face at some time or another...the characters are flawed and human yet God is present in all their lives....
I felt like the author was pushing her beliefs.
Specifically, I felt like, thru her character, she was saying that God wanted women to stay with their cheating husbands.
And the wife stayed with him, not because she felt it was where God was leading HER, but because that is what christian women should do.
Let me say I have no personal experience with being cheated on, so it's not for that reason that this rubbed me so wrong.
It felt like the author was making a statement, not writing a fictional situation with fictional characters.
I love that by the end of a good series each of the characters is developed so thoroughly that I feel like I know them personally.
One of the top recommendations was the book Redemption by Karen Kingsbury.
I just finished reading the fifth and final book of the series and wanted to let everyone know about these great books.
I used Redemption in one of Fluent Brittish's book swaps, and everyone that read it loved the book.So here I am taking that recommendation and passing it on to you.
Karen Kingsbury's Redemption series is about people like you and me.
If I don't like it by then, I will abandon yet another book and add to my arsenal of thoughts about why I don't like fiction.Wish me luck.UPDATE: I'm 140 pages into this book which was described to me as "life-changing." So far, I give it an emphatic "eh." I've already read phrases like "hit him like a Mack truck," and "deeper than a canyon." I've already read through scenes containing the exaggerated speech of a drunken man, and the melodramatic hesitation over dialing the last digit of a phone number.Oh, and a character named Dirk.
I continued to purchase all the books in the set and the series’ that followed, but always felt I needed to go back to the beginning and re-read before I continued on into the other series that dovetail off of this one.
All that to say my reviews will probably be short and to the point.The Redemption series follows the Baxter family.
About a third of the way in, the momentum picked up and I remembered why I liked Karen’s writing.
I like stories that are realistic, not cookie-cutter, and the troubles that plague the Baxter family make them human.
The scripture was not a compelling overlay for me, but I don’t feel qualified to comment on its effectiveness for readers who do filter their life choices through Bible passages.Then there’s the irony that is Redemption.Our story starts with the husband in bed with the OW at her apartment.
Prevent, no.)So the impact of Christianity on this scenario is that she feels called upon by God to preserve their marriage, and he is deliberately turning his back on God to pursue a relationship with the OW.(view spoiler)[The wife temporarily moves in with her parents for emotional support and meets up with an old boyfriend who supposedly betrayed her when they were young then went off to play professional football.
I think a lot of people rate this book for the message it gives: Love is a DecisionIf my opinion would have been based solely on this I would also give it five stars, Karen truly brought the theme through beautifully.But I don't just read for a theme or a messages, I want an intriguing plot and full well developed characters.
I really like the christian fiction and would try other books, I'm just not sure it will be Karen Kingsbury's books.
I can honestly say, I am not someone who pushes faith on anyone - I know I am a Christian; however I don't read the Bible religiously; I don't attend church faithfully and I don't pray on a daily basis.
With that being said - anyone who is familir with the works of Karen Kingsbury knows she is a Christian writer and her writing incorporates versus from the Bible and includes a deep faith in Family, Love, Prayer and most importantly - God. I belive in all of that - however I don't act on it openly.
But in reading this first book of this series, I have to say this writing was amazing and the story drew me in.
The First book of an entire three set series called the Redemption series, the forgiven series and the sunrise series.
All following the life of the Baxter family.
We get a sense of the entire family and how much they love one another through the love of Christ.
The focus, redemption, and how we must trust in God to provide us with our lives and pathways.
Its hard not to follow the entire series after reading just this book because you'll want to know what happens to each of the Baxter children as time passes on.
The story involves Kari, a young wife; her husband Tim; Kari's family, the Baxters; and Kari's former (and still current) love, Ryan.
Tim is a journalism professor and begins a very passionate affair with a student that causes him to leave his wife.
So it is not inconceivable to me that a family like the Baxters exists.
However, Kari and Ryan's rekindled romance following Tim's affair with the student was unbelievably G-rated.
Ryan, especially, seemed unusually restrained for a guy in his position.I'll be reading Book #2 in the series!
SERIES:
This book is about The Baxter's. John and Elizabeth have 5 adult children, Erin, Brooke, Kari, Ashley and Luke. The book tells the story of things families deal with daily, love, loss, grief, happiness, sadness. I felt as if I knew all of them and I belief an author has done a great job when you relate to the characters as real people. I will definitely finsih the series. I love the Baxters.
I reviewed this book several years ago, so this is a reread review.
Mrs. Kingsbury's books were introduced to me by my mother many years ago, and I was hooked.
Redemption was one of the first Kingsbury books that I read, and it is one of my favorites.
Whenever I find myself in a book funk, or I suffer a tragedy in my life, I pick up Redemption and am reminded that with God's redeeming grace, I can pull through anything.As someone who went through a bad first marriage, this book truly hits home for me.
There are many elements of the book that I went through but I didn't lean on God through it all like Kari did.
Karen Kingsbury leads you on a emotional roller coaster in the story of Redemption.
Karen Kingsbury paints a beautiful, truthful & painful picture bringing Biblical principles to life.
I love that God has his own voice.5.
I love that the consequences of disobeying the principles of God are driven home throughout the story.
Overall I loved this story.
Karen Kingsbury's writing is very captivating.
I can not wait to read more about the lives of the Baxter family in this series.
I listened to the audio version.
This story is as much relative now as it was when it was first written.
I think I've found a new author that I love ❤
I think I've found a new author that I love ❤️
I felt pretty disrespected as a reader that we were supposed to just believe that Tim was going to now be a good husband and Kari would be happy.
Maybe some people like that kind of thing in their books, I don't know, but I like series that tell new stories.
I keep reading because I like the characters, the story (and what I learn from it) and come away feeling accomplished; Not bullied into buying another book.
It's easy to get drawn into the Baxter family and all that is going on with them and want to keep reading each book in the series to find out what will happen next.
It's encouraging to learn from how they do or don't put their faith into action when tough times happen in their lives.Kari Baxter Jacobs discovers her husband, Tim, is cheating on her.
He moves in with one of his students and tells Keri he wants a divorce.
But she gathers her strength and eventually Tim decides he wants to work things out with Kari and have the baby with her.
Throughout this story you’ll learn about the Baxter family and other’s in close relationship to them, though the main focus is on Kari Baxter and the struggles she encounters with her husband Tim.I personally like how prayer and scripture was added into this book.
I defiantly will pick up the next few books in this serious to learn more about the Baxter’s walk with Lord in life through joys, struggles, and heartache…all which most people go through in their own lives daily.
one thing that I have often struggled with, in reading Christian fiction, is the way in which the authors portray the influence of the Lord in people's lives.
Often times in Christian fiction it can come off as a bit shallow.But this book for me almost hit it directly on the head.
I loved how the characters relationship with the Lord was part of their life.
I love how the characters spoke words that seemed real instead of speaking words that were expected of them in terms of their religious beliefs.
I wanted to stick around to see how this story would end for these characters.
Wonderful read!! So thought provoking and inspiring. I bawled my eyes out!
I guess this book rubbed me the wrong way, I don't know. The heroine's such a doormat but she disguised it with her religion. She's just stand there with heart ache, when her husband hurt her heart and her trust, she didn't get up and save herself. She's weak and I don't like my heroine's weak, so.. No. Not sure if I want to read the next installment of the series.
I love the Baxter series
However, my sister and mother have both been in love with a series from Karen Kingsbury for a while, and they kept recommending to me that I read the Baxter books.
(We're especially introduced to her sister Ashley, who will be the protagonist of the second book in the series.) An old flame also comes back into her life, and she has to make a decision to remaining committed to her marriage or allowing it to slip away.
I really didn't want anything to do with them, but I did ask the Lord to give me a heart for her books if He wanted me to read them.
Two weeks later with my interest piqued , the Lord inspired me to pick up the first book of the Baxter series since it started with her Christmas book that came out and I noticed it involved "the Baxter family." However Spoiler Alert: if you do read "The Baxter family Christmas ", skip the first part because it will totally blow the entire series for you.
If ever you decide not to put God first, God will always honor your choice" (135).(I thought this was a really good point.
The character who had this thought is struggling with her faith, and I would guess her understanding is part of the reason.
I think that's one of the reasons I am so enjoying this series (for I moved immediately into the second book before writing this review)--real life is happening to the Baxter family and that makes them relatable.)
My original review from 2 years ago: This is my favorite book of the series.
I admit, I wanted Kari to leave her husband and go with Ryan, but it all happened differently.
I find it sad to see how many Christians that have read this book didn't support Kari's decision to stay with her husband despite his unfaithfulness.
I changed my mind in the sense that I wanted Kari's marriage with Tim to work, and to last.
In fact, I barely liked Ryan this time around.
I think this is my favorite of all the books she's written that I've read.
This was a book about Tim who was unhappy in his marriage and started having an affair.
His wife Kari realized she had a part to play in his being unhappy in the marriage.
She stayed with her parents and learned that she was pregnant with Tim's baby.
Tim went back to Kari and they started to go to couseling together.
Things were looking up until the girlfriend called and told Tim she was pregnant with his baby.
Tim didn't know how to tell Kari now that they were working on their marriage.
Redemption is the first book in the Baxter series.
Kari finds out that her husband is having an affair and now he wants a divorce.
Kari wants to stay faithful to her husband, but she is struggling with the emotions that go with her husband having an affair and leaving her.
To top it off, Kari finds out that she is three months pregnant and is determined to make this work with her husband, no matter how he feels.
Will Tim and Kari get back together or will Ryan come in between them?
The first book in the Baxter series was definitely a good read!!
I'm guessing I had a good cry coming because that's exactly what happened in reading the last quarter of this book.Honestly, in the beginning I thought this was just an everyday novel with some scripture thrown in there every once in a while.
However, what I didn't expect was the reminiscing and soul searching that this book caused.
It may not be everyone's cup of tea but just like a scriptural reference is was here when I need it (and was ready to hear it).
