https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30858.When_God_Was_a_Woman
But most academics - feminist archaeologists, Classicists and historians included - agree that the majority of the evidence cited doesn't really hold up to snuff.
Beyond arguing evidence, it challenges the usefulness of perpetuating the very stories being constructed by people like Ms. Stone.
Granted, there was a lot of backlash (not to mention feelings of betrayal) after Eller published her book, but read it to inform yourself.
Then, after reading both, you may find yourself in the middle, just like me, agreeing with apparently mutually exclusive perspectives.
It wasn't until Indo-European religions (which eventually developed the Judeo-Christian cultures) came through with their male-dominator culture, that the Goddess was first suppressed.
On top of this, we see women blamed for the fall of man (as in the Old Testament of the Bible), and this is believed to be an artifact of the patriarchal religions' suppression of the Goddess.
This is further evidence of how ridiculous the fable is, and how there were so many political reasons behind the religions that suppressed women's rights (namely the Judeo-Christian religions).
ما كان عندما كانت هي الأعلى: قراءة في كتاب يوم كان الرب أنثىالمؤلفة: مارلين ستونترجمة وتقديم: حنّا عبودالناشر: الأهالي للطباعة والنشر والتوزيع – سوريا – دمشق، 1998.عدد الصفحات: 231 صفحة من القطع الكبيريتضمن الكتاب ثلاثة عشر فصلًا إضافة إلى المقدمة الخاصة بالمترجم، ويتحدث الكتاب عن العديد من الأماكن التي نشأت على تقديس الرّبة الأنثى، منذ العصر الحجري القديم وحتى ظهور الديانات السماوية (والتي تدعوها الكاتبة ديانات تقديس الإله الذّكر)، سومر، أكاد، بابل، أوغاريت، كريت، قبرص، اليونان، مصر، فلسطين، الهند، كيليكيا، الأناضول، إيران، وبلدان أخرى تظهر بشكل خاص في الفصل الخامس.وتأكد الكاتبة أن غزاة الشمال أو ما يطلق عليهم الهندوأوربيين هم أول من هبط بمستوى المرأة لتصير في المرتبة الثانية بل بأدنى مستوى الكائنات.ويبدأ الكتاب -بعد مقدمة المترجم- ببعض الاقتباسات التي اختارتها ستون وكان أولها اقتباس للكاتبة الفرنسية سيمون دي بوفوار من كتابها الجنس الآخر تقول فيه: «يتمتع الرجل بامتياز كبير وهو أنه يمتلك ربًا يصدق على القانون الذي يكتبه، وبما أن الرجل يمارس سلطة حاكمة على النساء فمن صالحه أن تكون هذه السلطة موهوبة له من الكائن الأعلى.
This was a very insightful look into a wide variety of past religions and cultures where women were revered and had much higher standings than in current cultures. I only wish that Stone could have read the beginning of Captivating before writing her introduction. How sad it is that the continuous misreading of the Christian creation story has led so many women to shy away from this religion and has led so many men to think themselves superior.
in view of the period that separates impregnation from birth, it seems probable that the significance of gestation and birth was appreciated long before it was realized that these phenomena were the result of conception following coition.”“James Frazer, Margaret Mead and other anthropologists,” writes Leonard Cottrell, “have established that in the very early stages of man's development, before the secret of human fecundity was understood, before coitus was associated with childbirth, the female was revered as the giver of life.
Most significant is the fact that, once Athaliah secured her rights to the throne, she reigned for about six years, re-establishing the ancient "pagan" religion throughout the nation, much to the distress of the Hebrew priests.— Chapter 3: Women—Where Woman Was Deified, pages 57-58 — Tags: interestingIn the worship of the female deity, sex was Her gift to humanity.
It makes it a lot harder to see specific books that match with specific ideas and quotes.She talks about the evidence found through archeological digs, ancient documents, religious practices, etc about the actual existence of Goddess worship.
And when Northern invaders started coming in and shaking things up.Goddess worship stemmed from that fact that our ancient ancestors didn't make the correlation between sex and pregnancy and thus woman was the one who created life.
To read this book after having read Joseph Cambell's Masks of God made clearer to me that religion originated as a way to explain the unexplainable, most of which can now be explained.
In this book that uneasy feeling that reading the story of Adam and Eve is explained.
Through oppression and outright massacre the patriarchal myths and their purveyors overthrew what had existed for tens of thousands of years.
In the scheme of humanity's interaction with nature and explaining it through mythology, the mythology of the patriarchal system is youthful in its dominance.
But the damage it has done is considerable.
One small item is that I have noticed in my own exploration is that Steven Mithen in "After the Ice" states that Gobekli Tepe shows no evidence of a Mother Goddess, but then Bettany Hughes in her documentary 'Divine Women" describes a female figurine found in a central room at Gobekli Tepe used for ritual purposes as the Mother Goddess.
Our interpretations are very much subject to our prejudices, and there is always more to learn.
Was the prehistory of humanity subject to a Goddess religion?
How did the families of gods become spilt and the female lost?
I can't believe I forgot to review this book. I read it months and months ago.Anyway, I couldn't even finish it. It was boring and dry and ridiculous.The author has no background in archeology or anthropology. She's an artist.... with an agenda. And she twists everything to fit that agenda.I also found it obnoxious that she vehemently accused others of bias when she is INCREDIBLY biased herself.Basically, I didn't believe much of what she said.
What can I say about this book that has not already been said? It was not a complete eye-opener, having previously been exposed to ritual and belief systems that venerated the sacred feminine, but Stone's work is a landmark on this topic.
We agree that you can have birth control and that 70-cents-on-the-dollar job." (Or whatever.) Of course, the idea that male supremacy was the only way things had ever been was most likely the result of a Christian education that taught me that the story of Adam and Eve, which gives a divine mandate for male supremacy, was a story about the first two humans on earth.
It's only recently that I began to realize that, if Adam and Eve were the first two humans on earth, it sure is remarkable that they invented both language AND food production, all before they ever even had any children!
Now that we got that out of the way let's talk about the meat and potatoes:There is no question, regardless of the exact methods of worship or the exact conduct of the women in relation to business and sex, families and worship, that women in ancient times held a special place in communities which was later wiped clean by idol-busting invaders from the North and the Hebrews who pushed a patriarchal agenda for the sake of paternity (one of Stone's topics covered is the fact that Goddess women took on multiple (younger) men as their sexual partners and had multiple children with these different men, something that the patriarchal invaders later made to be a shame-filled behavior which society still carries today.
She takes us on an ambition journey, travelling from the dawn of the Neolithic, through the Sumerian myths and writing, over to Cret, and then goes through the Bible with a fine-toothed comb, ferreting out mentions of the Goddess in its pages.
She is also adept at showing us how the invaders – possibly a Maglemosian or Kunda people who travelled down to Anatolia and then Iran/Iraq via the waterways – redefined the goddess cultures that they encountered.
And then, later, other Indo-European (Aryan) cultures also invaded, possibly around 2300 BC, bringing their horses and chariots with them.
It explains what men with the help of church and organized religion have taken from us, and have suppressed and persecuted for thousands of years (this book was published in 1976, the year I was born, but it was an eye opener for me, as I'm only now starting to read the work of feminists).
It's important we learn the facts about the early female religions and clear up the confusion, misunderstanding and suppression of information that has shaped human history and politics for over six thousand years, regarding the very creation of human life as something unnatural—as a sin (think about that for a moment).
Though I am worshipped in many aspects, known by countless names, and propitiated with all manner of different rites, yet the whole round earth venerates me.“The primeval Phrygians call me Pessinuntica, Mother of the gods; the Athenians sprung from their own soil, call me Cecropian Artemis; for the islanders of Cyprus I am Paphian Aphrodite, for the archers of Crete I am Dictynna; for the tri-lingual Silicians, Stygian Prosperine; and for the Eleusinians, their ancient Mother of Corn.
There are many things which I definitely don't agree with her on and I can say I marked the book up pretty good while reading it.
She tries to present goddess worshipping peoples as the pinnacle of achievement and present the Indo-European "invaders" as warmongers and the bringers of patriarchal society.
She doesn't show you that these goddess worshippers were just as bloody and savage as the rest of the peoples yet any perusal of history books out there will verify it.
I will definitely re-read this book at a later date after going through some history books of the time to see how well it holds up.
I was raised with the ideas that are counter cultural and this was one of the basic texts that my mother quoted often.
They were too uneducated to even know that my mom meant she was from a Jewish background, or that the bible came from judaic culture and that even the new testament was written and copied by rabbis for the first 200 to 500 years of it's existence.
I will pick which letter I will use for the a to z author challenge later.This book was interesting in the fact, while not that historically accurate* (it was also originally written in 1976), that did not bother me.
I read this as more of a spiritual contemplation then a historical document.
I am debating on putting this on the feminism shelf, but at the same time not sure if it belongs there.
We shall see how my bookshelves progress.
LOL*To be fair, academically.
historically, and scientifically, things are considered accurate and then inaccurate, to even accurate again in a very fluid sense, so it shouldn't surprise us that much.
Although this is a slow read as a lot of information and history needs to be digested, I believe it is an incredible book, that should be made compulsary literature in schools as it gives a new and different perspective and account of the development of religion from originally matriarchal religions and societies that were then thwarted for patriarchal power and religions.
However a core of today's patriarchal religions have their foundation in the original goddess societies.
It is a great book that can challenge the mind and believe and is therefore a valuable book for any spiritual, sociology or religious scholars.
A "MUST READ" for every woman and girl...and for educated men who want to be more so. Some may mistakenly read this as a "Feminist" book. Given the years and years of patriarchal crap women have had to live with, I think it eloquently attempts to balance the equation. I can't say enough GOOD about this book. It is historically interesting and insightful. It is not written for women or by women - it is written for humans. Hopefully, the bright ones out there will read it and spread the wisdom it contains! :)
If you're weak on your knowledge of ancient mythologies, and you only have a vague idea of the importance of women in them, then this book is for you. For me, it provided the context out of which the current world religions developed. It provides an understanding that may make you question everything you believe and the emerging new spiritual practices that you may find yourself doing. It is powerful knowledge, and I have no idea where I go from here.
This book was read in defiance of the patiarchal order of things. In a quest for spirituality, I had to go back to my ten year old logic and rebuild what worked, from there. The book was actually a spin off of Joseph Campbell's earlier readings. I liked the historical view, but i can't say I agree with the spin of the logic, but then again, I can't agree with the opposing spin. Fun, lifts your wings sisters!
I read this book around the same time I read Gerda Lerner's "Creation of Patriarchy" as they are powerful companions. Read as part of my Vermont College Bachelor's Degree program, I think that all women should read this.
I thought this book was extremely factual and interesting. It details how the original matriarchal religions were destroyed by later patriarchal religions and goes on to describe how this affected the treatment of women in general. A really eye-opening read!
I just found this in a box of books I just found again...Every good feminist should read this. ;)
And for all the problems this book has with its editing (it took me a few months to get through, and the first fifth was downright frustrating), I hadn't realized just how much our idea of religion begins with Judaism.
We have the vaguest idea of what we believed before, or don't even care to delve into how pre-judaism religion affected the organization of society!!
I simply used to know as a FACT that the Hebrew bible is extra extra violent.
It made me a little peeved even that Reza Aslan in his recent 'God' doesn't allude to any of what is written in this book, in his, he simply makes the jump from prehistoric times to the Hebrews.
Well...the writing style, the sloppy arguments, and the messy research kind of made me want to pull my hair out while I was reading this.
She makes a lot of assertions regarding pre-history that are simply impossible to back up and doesn't qualify her theories enough - she presents them as fact when they are speculation.I read the book because it's been important to the neo-pagan movement, but it's not going to become a foundational book for my own practice.
It’s a bit dated (the book is 40 years old) but the way it describes the subjugation of women throughout history is still resonant today.
I recommend this book to anyone who's interested in the anthropology of religion or kinship. It serves as a good introduction, especially for ancient religions. I enjoyed it very much.
Excellent read on early religionsThe author lays out a very detailed synopsis of the early Goddess worship practices. Lots of names and dates which can be a bit confusing, but there is a very nice date and name chart at the end. Wish there was a book like this for early celtic religions. All in all an excellent read.
