https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/473361.Animals_Should_Definitely_Not_Wear_Clothing
to them and to us.poor animals, why do people try to steal your dignity by putting you in clothing that is unnecessary?
no booties, no bubbles.
it is not as good as:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p5RlRg...but it is what i am putting out there.just say no.i am going to make my own television commercial, where i put those poor sarah mclachlan shelter and circus-animals in clothing and play some manipulative tune over it, and then you will all see!
This was one of my favorite books as a kid. The pictures cracked me up. As a parent, I still enjoy it. But I don't know how much re-readability it has. If you're not in a position to run around buying a ton of books for your kids, you might want to grab it from the library rather than make it part of your permanent collection.
It must be true, because Judi Barrett’s book is a comprehensive manifesto that will change your opinion about which animals cannot and should not wear clothing.
Since there’s no mention of monkeys in the book, you can safely assume that they not only can be dressed up, but damned well should.
See, that shit’s hilarious!What I really like about this book is that it tells you why the animals inside shouldn’t be dressed up.
Have you ever visited www.peopleofwalmart.com?By Barrett’s logic, half of the American population shouldn’t be wearing clothing, and it wouldn’t be the half you’d want to see without clothing.But, as you know, kids aren’t concerned with logic.
That’s another reason I like this book.
Judi Barrett's books always tickle the funny bone, and this one definitely fits the bill. My grandson is a real animal lover, and he enjoyed the situations each animal got into trying to wear clothing. Recommended for readers in late first early second.
So frigging cute, I loved all the animals! Can't believe I'd never heard of this timeless classic.
One of the animals pictured is a giraffe wearing seven neckties, which served as a "tie-in" to this week's craft in which we made funny clown ties using cardstock, stickers, and ribbon.The craft was inspired by a photograph in an old issue of Sesame Street Magazine.
Stickers included left-overs from previous years summer reading, dots, and stars.Coincidentally, I found a necktie rubber stamp to use in the story time greeting routine.
Each week each child gets his or her hand stamped with a picture relating to the story time theme.
How have I never seen this book? It would make a simple, funny readaloud -- even better if it was available as a big book.
Very cute,very funny and very witty. This a masterpiece. I could not help laughing. Highly recommended.
This is a fantastic book that I somehow missed as a kid that now I can't wait to share with the kids in my life. Hilarious!
This book is golden. Children will laugh and enjoy as much as you probably will.
i agrey animals should not were close i think its reley funny and i like it
Judi Barrett's story is a plot-less story that describes why different animals should not wear clothing.
The illustrations, done by Ron Barrett, have an enhancing relationship with the text.
The illustrations show the animal that corresponds to the accompanying text, on a full-white background.
Some animals are done in color, while others are not; however all the clothes are colorful.
The illustrator uses crosshatching to show texture and shadowing.
Green, red, orange and white are the most dominating colors of the images and backgrounds.
Overall, a very appropriate story for young readers and easy to use as a read-along because of the large text.
This was one of my personal favorites growing up. This book would be great for beginning readers because the text is simple and it’s informative as well; it demonstrates unique characteristics of animals. The book guides the reader through hilarious explanations why animals shouldn’t wear clothes. My favorite is, “it might be very embarrassing for an elephant. The picture shows an elephant wearing a floral dress and hat while staring at a woman wearing an identical outfit. It’s a cute and fun read!
This book presents a witty look at what it would be like if animals attempted to wear human clothes. The illustrations and ideas are understandable to young children but humorous enough to entertain older ones. Each page pictures a different animal in an article of clothing that manifestly does not work (one of the funniest is the hen wearing pants, with an egg caught inside). The sense of absurdity in this book will delight and cultivate a wonderful kind of humor.
This is a funny story. It is a great book for kids to read because it is entertaining and it also introduces rhyming and other early literacy skills to children. This book is good to read when you are spending one on one time with a student, quality time with your own child(ren), and reading to your class.
A good mentor text for persuasive writing with younger students, and a highly entertaining book. I read it to my 3 1/2 month old nephew. I think his foot kicking was a sign of approval.
My initial impact of the book was that it was short and simple yet very enjoyable to read.
There was not a setting as the pages that contained the illustration had a plain white back ground.
The pages that contained the captions were either white, green, red, or orange.
This book would be very interesting and enjoyable to younger readers because they would find the illustrations hilarious as it is all animals with clothing on them.
I enjoyed reading this book as I believe others will too.
It ends by noting that the most important reason is that it is embarrassing and shows a picture of an elephant and a woman wearing the same dressThis book is a picture book, and specifically, a picture storybook.
It uses illustrations and words to tell the story.This book contains a lot of rich vocabulary and contains a number of high frequency words.
One particular project that I would do with this book would be for the students to write their own reason why they think animals should not wear clothes and illustrate it.
High frequency words could also be incorporated into the assignment.ReferenceAR Book Finder.
I remember my brother getting this book as a kid, and even though it was too old for me, I’d thought it was the cutest story (though not a story in the traditional sense; this is like a kid’s version of a listicle).
This is the type of book where the illustrations tell part of the tale (like the Little Critter books by Mercer Mayer).
I do wish publishers would print recommended ages on books, like they do on toys, though I do believe this book is perfect for a toddler.
However, I would say it is more of a daytime book than a bedtime story.
I remember reading this as a child so when I saw it at a consignment sale I couldn't pass it up. Love the mix of well recognized animals (snake, mouse, giraffe, sheep, pig, hen, elephant) with some more uncommon ones (porcupine, camel, kangaroo, billy goat, walrus, moose, opossum). Love the large font which is so helpful for beginning readers. Has big descriptive words which are good for children to hear to increase their vocabulary. Illustrations are amusing.
Summary: Why animals should not wear clothing.Why I Read This: It was on one of my "best of" lists.Review: I can't put my finger on why, but I really disliked this book. It might simply be because it's very dependent on the illustrations, and I just didn't like the illustrations. It wasn't objectionable, but I never want to see it again unless I'm weeding it from the collection.
Why didn't I realize sooner that I wanted an illustrative look at why animals shouldn't wear clothing?! This book is a wonderful concept and creates giggles for all. I'll definitely read it again.For: readers wanting some nonsense.Possible red flags: some readers may not enjoy the nonsense factor.
This is a brilliant book to get kids thinking creatively. After reading you could come up with a topic and make your own book. Manners: Kids should definitely act...., Mom's should definitely not go...., etc.
Amusing story giving the reasons why animals should not wear clothes. Readers will have to use the pictures for clues to the text provided.Clever illustrations and humorous text for younger readers.
This book is classified as juvenile fiction; targeting ages 2 and up. The story This book humorous selection for discussing proper dress and clothing, animals, cause and affect (perhaps) the story is light-hearted and fun, it offers vocabulary enrichment for emergent readers.
This is a really cute and silly book that is also great for teaching kids animal vocab
Oh my god, this was one of my favorite childhood books. The illustrations were exquisite. I mean, just look at the cover. What a fucking weird little tome.
I loved all the animals! Can't believe I'd never heard of this timeless classic.
i love this book and it is great to read aloud :) it is so funny too!
for some reason, this one doea not overwhelm me with mirth like it does aome people, it definitely has funny moments, though, and is an enjoyable read that kids find fun
