https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/317282.Memoirs_of_a_Teenage_Amnesiac
I went into this with a quest.
To discover if after several years this was still my favourite book.I think it is.
I think it is my favourite book.You'll be seeing quite a few videos from me about this book in the next few weeks to hear more of my thoughts, but here are a few :)- This is the book that I think about the most often.
instead, i am choosing to interpret amnesia here as more of a metaphor for the formlessness of adolescence, where a girl can fall for the tennis jock one day and see no conflict in then developing feelings for the moody and tortured artist and then deciding her goofy best friend is the next logical move.
i think that the discovery of the unreliable narrator is one of the joys of development as a reader, and there are not many in teen fiction - it marks a transition into adult literature, like "look at the possibilities".
It was a fun enough book, read well enough - I got it because I hoped it would measure up to author Zevin's later novel for adults, "Young Jane Young," which shows how far Zevin's writing has improved.
But the more I read, the less I liked her.
Ace was self-centered and was too intent on getting Naomi back in bed, and James was just...
And Naomi just let him treat her like crap and didn't do anything about it because she loved him because he was so tortured.
The only characters I actually liked were Will and Mr. Porter, and even they got annoying at times.
And in what high school on earth does being on yearbook staff actually take up that much time??
It's just that Naomi's participation in both made me like her less.
Certainly an intriguing concept, sort of like those day-glo-coloured afterschool early 2000's TV films that used to be on when I was a kid, but I think this book could have been so much more original and deep than it turned out to be. Don't get me wrong, I did enjoy it, but not as much as I'd been hoping.
Naomi can't remember why she fell in love with him until she gets her memory back, but even then it feels like she's fuzzy on the subject.
I love that he isn't perfect, and I love that Zevin was at least not afraid to make his character just the slightest bit dangerous.WILLWill annoyed the freaking hell out of me.
If Naomi should've been less whiny, Will should've realized that amnesia means you can't remember things.
Like I said before, this isn't a love story.
Naomi and James fall in love over her lost memory, but once it returns there's nothing to hold them together.
(6h 40m) A different plot for a YA novel that opens with the main character, Naomi, in the back of an ambulance with a boy that claims he's her boyfriend.
Instead it was full of teen angst, choosing between three different guys, and trying to regain memory.
I am left feeling so-so about this book.
I'm considering that my reading experience may have been different if I had read the book instead of listening to it on Audible.
Honestly, it's not because of Greer's performance either, she played the teen angst role really well.
I just failed to ever to feel much empathy to Naomi.
The pain in her head is so severe that she doesn't worry about the fact that she has no idea who the guy is holding her hand and telling her everything is going to be okay.In the hospital, Naomi learns that she fell down the steps of her high school and hit her head hard enough to cause brain trauma.
James is a boy with a troubled past and new to her high school and just happened to be there when Naomi fell.
Her father, a writer by trade, calms his nerves in the hospital by starting a list of things Naomi doesn't remember.
This book really could have been good if I hadn't disliked the main character and her love interest so much.Towards the end, it got a little bit better, but up until then, I was mostly feeling annoyed by Naomi and her behaviour. Especially since she decided to treat the characters I really liked, namly her dad and Will, rather badly. And didn't even care enough to apologize to them later when she realized she had been mean.
(view spoiler)[ She calls her mom a slut for cheating on her dad without knowing the whole story.
She finds out later that her dad admits to emotionally cheating on her mom the entire time, and he even says in his book, "it must have been exhausting to be my wife".
So it's okay that your dad acted like a scumbag, but not your mom?
And then Naomi turns and tells him maybe he should stop because, oh, I don't know, UNWANTED ADVANCES?
ANd then Naomi just thinks to herself, maybe I shouldn't have, a girl like Brianna can stick up for herself.
When I opened the book, I expected to get something like an YA version of Meg Cabot's "Remember Me?" but ended up with a story of a girl who loses and then finds a piece of herself.
She gets an opportunity to reinvent her persona when she finds out that her former self wasn't that great and some of her life choices are questionable.
Zevin does a great job of portraying a person who is lost and directionless in life and who is trying to get a grip on her own self.
If you happen to be one of those teens who just wants to forget what has happened the last few years, here is what you do: throw yourself down a flight of stairs!Crazy I know!
You especially forget everything you didn't really learn, but just memorized the night before.
You forget your junior class schedule and where you used to sit and your best friend's home phone number (339-4962, I think) and the lyrics to that song you must have played a million times.
And eventually, but slowly, oh so slowly, you forget your humiliations-even the ones that seemed indelible just fade away.
The voice in this book is fabulous: strong, funny, and intelligent.
She never tells us whether to like Naomi or always what she's thinking or what to expect her to do or want or become.
I can see how that could be frustrating for girls who are used to books that tell them what to think, but I thought it was refreshing and made the book all that much more powerful.Incidentally, I didn't like Naomi, not really.
All the characters are very vivid and very real and multi-dimensional.
My favorite character was Will.
I adored this novel. Mainly due to the author's beautiful writing style and fluid storytelling. If I were to make one complaint it would be that I wish one of the characters, whose name I shall not state due to my fear of spoilers, had more of a resolution. I fell in love with them and my mind is reeling, wondering what will become of them and if they move on, find happiness, and heal. This is one novel I am dying to read a companion to.
Zevin weaves the tale of Naomi’s self discovery with extraordinary skill and creates characters that are so alive, I feel like I know them and experienced the events of this story right along with them as opposed to merely reading about them.In one misstep, Naomi lost years' worth of memories.
She is strangely drawn to James, the boy who found her and rode with her to the hospital, who up until the moment he found her, had never met her.Like memory itself, the book has many layers.
She feels like a stranger in her own home, in her own body, and with her family and friends.
Still I refuse to read on when processing the scenes becomes an effort instead of fun.
Although I can understand the heroine's motivations - forming a stance, an opinion on something, coming to terms with personal calamities, growing really fond of someone takes time, and therefore it is natural that somebody who has to restart at a later point in life with an earlier set of experiences takes different turns and comes to different conclusions than her first alter ego - I simply cannot get warm with her.
So, in my opinion losing her memory is no excuse for cutting someone off this way.
**********1.3/5**********I actually think, personally, that Gabrielle Zevin might have been just bored the actual moment she thought of writing this book.
It bothered me.To think that she kept the story revolve around Naomi's quest for love or something like that for almost 10 chapters out of twelve?!
And then she tries to make up for the 10 sick chapters using the last two remaining by making the story interesting, (ha still no), by revealing the confusion Naomi felt before the incident happened, like Naomi kissing Will and that this was what Naomi was running away from all those times (before).
I didn't find this book as appealing as her earlier book, "Elsewhere." The protagonist, Naomi Porter, was barely likeable, and came off as extremely selfish, cranky, and just generally bitchy for no apparent reason.
I'm not even sure why this book is called "Memoirs" since we get very little insight into her amnesia (she loses her memory and has to deal with the resulting high school drama, or lack of).
I also disliked how there was very little resolution w/the mother-daughter issue--it's almost as though Zevin kind of glossed over that part.
Still, it's an interesting concept and I would recommend this book to teens who are interested in angsty romance.
Throughout her recovery, she learns more about herself, some good, some bad.Naomi's best friend, Will is always around during Naomi's recovery.
There is also a bad boy character - James, who found Naomi after her fall.
James is a perfect boyfriend for Naomi as long as she can not remember her past.
Naomi's before the fall jock boyfriend Ace, is your typical teenage boy.
Naomi can't remember why she was attracted to Ace in the first place.Memoirs of a Teenage Amnesiac was a memorable book for me.
Rounding up to 4 StarsEverything about this book was appealing: characters, story, hint of mystery, language....except for the ending!
It was one of those where you flip the page and your mouth gapes open with confusion.
Huh?
The story seemed to just stop.
Admittedly, I'd prefer my endings tied up with a silky red ribbon.
I can guess, of course, but ugh!
(My Kindle is most definitely to blame, as well.
I was at 89% when I suddenly hit the acknowledgement pages.
I've noticed this happens when the author offers discussion question and a preview to an upcoming novel.
2.5/5 starsMeh. This wasn't anything special. Although I liked it enough to read it to pass time between classes. I felt like I was waiting for something to take place the entire time. There was barely any conflict, the whole story was missing something for me. But I loved the music playlists(its why I decided to give a half star bumping it to 2.5)
I wasn’t expecting this book to be funny, but much of it was quite amusing.I’ve always been interested in amnesia.
To me, we are our memories.
If we lose our memories are we the same person?
Do we like and dislike the same things/people, have the same beliefs?
And I enjoyed reading about her, and the other people in the book.The book is well written, and there are some incredibly lovely lines.
I expected to really like this book and I did.Addendum: I've always loved The Beatles song I Will, and now I can't get it out of my mind; it fit within this story perfectly.
I flew through this book. I was so close to giving it five stars, but the ending wasn't as satisfying as I hoped it would be... I wanted MORE. I love Will so much- him and his precious, devoted little soul. At times the main character frustrated me, but then I remembered she was sixteen and it made all of the sense. I highly recommend this book!!
4/5 I really enjoyed this book! I enjoyed seeing through the main character's eyes as we went through her life with her without her memories. I also enjoyed that this story was extremely realistic when it came to teenage relationships. No insta-love or soul mate stuff, just honest to goodness real first love stuff. Highly recommend in the plot intrigues your interest.
My rating is 3.5 or 3.75 stars, but I rounded up. The premise and character background was intriguing. Our main character, Naomi, lost four years of her life and now needs to rediscover who she is (and why).Be Sure To Check Out My BookTube Review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L72C1...
Significant things have happened in that four years and she spends majority of the first part of the book coping with those changes.I know from reading other reviews people thought of Naomi as whiney.
tend to latch on to the romantic interestsinterstsI've read some reviews on the subject of Naomi and James and I reluctantly admit that others are right about them.
The thing that troubles me the most is that Naomi feels like that girl left in a typewriter case when she was an infant during her father's wedding ceremony.
If Naomi was really making all these breakthroughs about James and Will, what about her father and mother?
⭐⭐⭐ ┊ 3 starsNot really sure what to say.
I was disappointed.
I am disappointed.Most of the characters were not all there.
Naomi was a selfish and bratty 17-year-old kid.
Ace (what a name, of course he had to be good at tennis too) didn't care about anyone but himself and was so one-dimensional.
James treated the people around him like crap and used his depression as an excuse to get away with it.The only character I liked was Will.
So sweet and romantic and caring and loyal.
"You could tell everything about people...from the kinds of signs they put up."
I was surprised I enjoyed this as much as I did. Surprised because despite loving the premise of   I kinda got bored in it.I think to enjoy a head trauma/amnesiac book, it's best just to go along for the ride and read the story not getting all caught up in the logistics of the scenario, yeah?About the book:Naomi was a popular girl, with a jock boyfriend and a goofy best friend, Will. When she loses four years worth of memories, she doesn't really get who she turned out to be. Doesn't find anythi
I kinda got bored in it.I think to enjoy a head trauma/amnesiac book, it's best just to go along for the ride and read the story not getting all caught up in the logistics of the scenario, yeah?About the book:Naomi was a popular girl, with a jock boyfriend and a goofy best friend, Will.
Love it :)Overall: I had a good time reading it despite not caring about it that much (if you get what I mean).
:/ Oh, screw it.This book was published first, but I'd like to say that I feel a resemblence to IF I STAY.
list time!+ Naomi feels like a real, fleshed-out person.
She has her flaws and characteristic quirks, and after reading the last page I feel like her story does go on, that she's out there living her life...+ Will+ Naomi and Will's friendship ~ they know absolutely everything about the other person and are inseparable.
It's also very fitting to Naomi's personality that she would set her story out in this way...
MOATA follows the story of a teenage girl who,like the title suggests,loses her memory by tripping down the school stairs after retrieving her camera from the school building.It starts with her waking up in hospital and having to face new,or maybe not so new, people and situations which she has vague,indistinct and futile memories of.This book deals with amnesia in a unique way despite being intended for teenagers.Imagine waking up to people from a previous life,who expect so much from you?What if you can't live up to their visions and hopes of you regaining your memory?Having a boyfriend whom you no longer like or even know?Starting afresh in the most vulnerable stage of adolescence and high school?I am really resentful for the fact that I didn't like this book;it just felt kinda like there was nothing going on.No message,no plot,no lessons.Nothing.Perhaps the characters are a metaphor for adolescent angst.A story where the girl falls for the tennis jock,then catches feelings for the emo,tortured artist,then focuses her affections to her nerdy bestfriend.
