https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/917198.Oxford_Advanced_Learner_s_Dictionary
Oxford Advanced Learner's Dictionary: Of Current English, Albert Sydney Hornby
هذا القاموس كان له الفضل الكبير بعد الله في تطوير وتحسين مستواي في اللغة الانجليزية, حيث أنه قام يتغذيتي بكمية كبيرة من المفردات المزوده بشرح مبسط لها ,حيث جعلها سهلة الفهم راسخه في العقل.هذا العجم برفقتي منذ خمس سنوات, ومازلت أتصفحه بلا كلل او ملل وكل ما اعتقدت اني اخذت كفايتي من هذا المعجم ,وأصبحت أملك مخزون جيد من المفردات ,أجد نفسي بحاجه للرجوع إليه , وكأنه يقول لي أنت تعلم القليل وتجهل الكثير لذلك فلا غنى لك عني.
A dictionary is the best book anyone can read without tiring for a second.
Oxford Advanced Learner's Dictionary offers much more than just the meanings of words.
It also contains various word games which provide an efficient manner for memorizing the words.
Also, it contains the diphthongs and monothongs which help the reader in pronunciation of the word.A must have in everyone's book collections I say.
However, The Oxford Dictionary remains the most frequently read book by me :D (The result of which is that my copy has gone all tattered :P )Hey...
and get yourself The Oxford Dictionary :D
One of the best dictionaries I've ever used. Big, fat with large number of words, maps and pictures. Great.
Like no other english- english dictionaries! It contains the whole english words also it teaches you how to put the word in its suitable location in sentences
Great use of words but lacking in plot.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.Citation created by: Tom ShawCall Number: PE1628 .O86 2010Description: Developed by leading scholars of the English language, this dictionary is a valuable resource for word definition and usage.Content/Scope: Word definitions are detailed in multi-colored arrangements for easier access to entries.
At more than 1700 pages, most words in the English language are contained herein including idioms, phrasal verbs, and proper usage.Accuracy/Authority: This book has received mostly positive reviews by reputable review sources.Arrangement/Presentation: Entries are arranged alphabetically for easy access and reference.Timeliness/Permanence: This reference book was published in 2010, so its content and relevance will change little in the future.
One of the few books I never read to the end, but still a must-have.
I have a dictionary in every drawer in reach. And a thesaurus (but I didn't want to come off as TOO dorky!!).... nothing's better than a good word :)
Useless on my iPad There is no introduction or explanation of how this dictionary works. I have yet to figure out how to even look up a word. I will be seeking a refund and return the book
Love itLove d it very easy and understandable all should go for this dictionary ha ha ha ha ha ha ha
Amazing bookLove it
My favourite dictionary
I think this is amazing
meditationMeditation is a practice in which an individual trains the mind and/or induces a mode of consciousness to realize some benefit,[1] although it can be argued that meditation is a goal in and of itself.[2]The term meditation refers to a broad variety of practices (much like the term sports), which range from techniques designed to promote relaxation, contacting spiritual guides, building internal energy (chi, ki, prana, etc.), receiving psychic visions, getting closer to God, seeing past lives, taking astral journeys, and so forth, to more technical exercises targeted at developing compassion,[3] love, patience, generosity, forgiveness and more far-reaching goals such as effortlessly sustained single-pointed concentration,[4] single-pointed analysis,[5] and an indestructible sense of well-being while engaging in any and all of life's activities.
Today (May 9) I bought this paperback (8th ed.) as an essential language reference for my ongoing teaching, reading, writing, translating, verifying, etc.
Wakefield have since evolved into its second edition (I bought a hardcover and used it during my studies for higher secondary education & college years & teaching English & studying further) till its seventh edition, that is, the dog-eared one on my desk in the Language Center Office, NPRU.
In a week or two I need to use it's CD-ROM, that is, on the pronunciation and phonetic symbols for my powerpoint presentations in the four classes of those part-time post bachelor students studying for the education diploma in a three-semester syllabus at NPRU.
Helps you think, in English!My Hornby is a low-priced edition, thirteenth impression, 1984.
But most of all, I love the dictionary(!).
Because, as promised:It gives practical definitions and usage notes in simple EnglishAnd for someone like me to whom English is a foreign language, this is big deal.
A very big deal—especially when dealing with abstract words.
The definitions help me grasp the conceptual meanings (not just synonymous meanings) without being too dang technical.One thing about dictionaries in terms of size is this mutually exclusive nature: small, we get more compactness but less fills; big, it's the other way around.
This is by far the best English to English dictionary you can possible find in the market.I am currently studying for my proficiency certificate in English and this baby is always there when I need it.So if you are an advanced learner and wondering what dictionary to get,help is at hand!However I do have to mention that I am quite fond of the iWriter.It is brilliant,handy and extremely explanatory!I just love it so much...
OXFORD ADVANCED LEARNER'S DICTIONARYAlbert Sydney Hornby[**** ] 4 StarsFirst and foremost, thank you, Book. I shall never ever forget the incredibly useful knowledge and enlightenment you brought to my life and forever hold you dear to my heart.Seriously though, this dictionary may very well be the best tool ever known to man-kind if you want to understand the ins-and-outs of the English language.
An excellent dictionary I got as a gift with the dedication "We wish you continued success" Debesai Zemui, Nighisti Embaye (Eritreans)... 30/10/81 Ellwangen (Germany) by my pupils as a teacher for German - it has been accompanying me since then through all these years as a teacher till today as a great help additionally to the Internet... (dali48)
Very useful for finding the meaning of lot of words, well organized and in very planned manner, also a CD along it, purchased from amazon.co.in really good for any students/professional and for book lovers too very useful companion always on my table and use it regularly to finding lot of meanings
"Leftover" from school. Guess they were renewing there collection, so we were allowed to keep these. Thanks, school. You didn't manage to teach me english, and you certainly tried to sabotage all my efforts to teach me myself, but you gave me this book. That's, you know, really nice.
It is a very nice dictionary , I have never used the paper one , when I bought that I've took the cd inside that and installed on my laptop which is very useful ! U could use as a reference of that and pretty sure u will be happy to buy it.
On Oxford Advance Learner’s Dictionary of Current English (1995:325), Hornby stated that “Language is the system of communication in speech and writing that is used by people of particular country.”
I recommend the use of this dictionary to all pupils.I recommend that you become familiar with words of Latin origin.I recommend that you become familiar with words of French origin.I recommend that you become familiar with words of Greek origin.
Really good monolingual dictionary, with two colors, example phrases, lexical information where neccessary, pronunciation in IPA, some colored maps and illustrations and style guides... quite nice. But not perfect, there's no particular reason to give it the 5th star, so...
The one I have previously belonged to my brother, and now it's nearly falling apart as we've used it so often :) It's extremely useful and offers pictures, explanations and plenty of examples! Oh and what an appendix xD
Perfect for people when need the dictionary!!
it is good
wow
