https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/329157.The_Orthodox_Church
This is one of the most honest history books I've ever read. Ware sugarcoats neither East nor West in his depiction of the historical church. He disarmed much skepticism by giving the good, the bad and the ugly.
Ware begins, naturally enough, with a definition of Orthodoxy: “the Christians who are in communion with the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople.” This excludes Roman Catholics and Protestants, of course, and also the Oriental Orthodox—the Church of the East, today rabidly persecuted by Muslims in places like Syria, and the Monophysite Churches, such as the Coptic Church in Egypt.
Worshipping God nearly every Sunday in a Russian Orthodox church during my year in Kazakhstan introduced me to the deeply complex, yet simply beautiful worship of God that is found in Orthodox Christianity.
For several years thereafter, I’ve longed to deepen my understanding of these last two topics, and I looked to Bishop Kallistos Ware’s book to aid that process.Naturally, the book presents the history and the theology of the Orthodox Church from an Orthodox position.
I highly recommend this book to any Christian seeking to understand the history of his/her own faith.
The book has two parts: a historical introduction to the Orthodox faith and a systematic exposition of the major themes of Orthodoxy.
Ware gives particular attention to the Great Schism and while he notes many failings with the Orthodox at the time, much of the blame inescapably lies with Rome.
Ware tries to be sensitive on this issue and notes the difficulties involved.The most exciting part of Ware’s book was the Orthodox view of deification.
The Orthodox advance the claim that they alone constitute the true Church of God on earth.
This book left me wanting more--in a good way! The history of the Orthodox Church was fascinating and detailed, the faith and worship section understandably limited to conveying Orthodox theology and practice, and not defending or explaining it in minute terms. For the record, I was raised in a non-denominational Protestant church in Texas and one year ago married an Anglican deacon (soon-to-be priest) who identifies with Orthodoxy perhaps as closely as with Anglicanism. I read this book to broaden my understanding of The Orthodox Church and it provided a perfect introduction. I look forward to further reading!
Exactly what I hoped it would be--a thorough introduction to the history and worship of the Eastern Church. Ware's book is eminently readable and engaging, even humorous at times (in a very dry, understated way). Perhaps the best feature, though, is the list of "further reading" near the book's end.(What a difference 10 years made for me. I first tried reading this fairly dense (yet not overly dry) book in my mid-twenties, when I first began exploring Orthodoxy. I think I read bits of two chapters at most...)
If someone asked me, "What is the one book you would recommend to someone wanting to understand Eastern Orthodoxy?" I would answer without thinking The Orthodox Church by Kalistos (Timothy) Ware.
That's a story for a different day, This book was originally published in the 1960s, and it is still the best introduction to the Orthodox Church.
The first part deals with the history of the Orthodox Church and addresses topics like the Ecumenical Councils, the Great Schism, dealing with Islam, and the Twentieth Century.
A very concise book for understandig history and structure of the Eastern Orthodox Church as well as its relations with the rest of the Christendom. It is well-structured and easily readable...
After the schism, the book follows the spread of orthodox Christianity into Eastern Europe and Russia, and then tells of the difficulties the church faced under Muslim and communist rule (and in some cases, from the Roman Catholics).
It outlines the differences between Roman Catholic and Orthodox beliefs, and contrasts them with the Protestant church as well.
Only a council of bishops, acting together, can determine appropriate interpretation and theology, and their decisions are believed to be inspired by God. This book is highly recommended for anyone that is interested in learning about church history or early Christian/Orthodox beliefs.
So I'm at work talking to a friend who is gay and we comment on the split in the Episcopal church over a gay priest.
The conversation turns to the Great Schism between Orthodox and Roman Catholic and neither of us have a clue what caused it, or exactly when it took place.One of my GR friends is an Orthox priest so I asked him to suggest some books to read.
so he turns the other cheek when talking about the horrible acts commited by Crusaders on Eastern faithful and vice versa..But he is honest and this book was very helpful in developing in me a broader view of religious/spiritual pursuits.
I've only read the first part so far (waiting for someone to catch up with me).
It's separated into two parts - History and Worship.The history section deals with the very beginnings of the church up to the post-communism period, which was an update in this newest addition.
This history seems to be very thorough and appropriately biased.
I wasn't prepared to read such a dismal history from an Orthodox person himself.
I imagine the second half of the book, Worship, redeems the church in showing what exactly it has suffered to preserve for the rest of the world.
It was helpful 10 years ago, when I was unfamiliar with a lot of the history and theology; and it was interesting to read again now that these are all very familiar to me.
The book is divided into two sections, history and theology.
The theology section is only about 130 pages, but beautifully presents a concise, Christian theology that is ancient and beautiful, fairly contrasted with western Christianity as necessary.
For Protestants who may not be interested in Orthodoxy but are tired of the baggage of American Christianity, this offers a fresh glimpse at early Christian faith and practice, a faith full of the joy of the resurrection and love of God.
About half history and half theology, this classic by Ware is a must-read for anyone interested in the Orthodox Church. While I will always take issue with some of the teachings and practices of the Orthodox, I say with profound gratitude that I have also learned much from them over the past 20 years.
Excellent book on the Eastern Orthodox Church. I pray one day we will all be united under one church as Christ wished in John, Chapter 17.
In fact, at the time that the book was published, Bishop Ware had only been a member of the Eastern Orthodox Church for five years – having joined the church in 1958 after being raised in the Anglican Church (he's from Somerset, England).The book itself if separated into two broad selections.
Mostly, I would have to say, because in the “The Orthodox Way”, the practical expression of Eastern Orthodox theology was left open to the reader - allowing them to chew on the concepts and adopt them as led by the Holy Spirit.
As an introduction to the Orthodox Church, to its history, theology and rituals, this book is concise, informative, and clearly written.
The author's intention is to provide a clear exposition of these - an explanation of orthodox faith and practice that is accessible to people of other faith traditions.
Similarly, rather than providing a comprehensive exposition of Orthodox theology, he stresses those dogma and beliefs which differ from what is familiar in western theology - those that are unique to Orthodoxy - for example, such theological concepts as theosis, Chrismation, the veneration of icons, episcopal collegiality as the ultimate ecclesiastical authority, etc.
I appreciated on several occasions how the author tried to consider both perspectives of the conflict between the east and west and how he very frankly presented his grievences.
My other complain was that there seem to be a lot of misunderstandings (theologically, socially, culturally and doctrinally) about the 'Roman/western Church.' I'll admit that I'm biased, but considering there were quite a few misunderstandings, it made more than a small impression and affected my enjoyment of the book to a little degree.
But, it was nonetheless informative of the impression the 'Roman/western' Church has given off at times towards those of the Orthodox persuasion.
I'm currently re-reading this as I explore more fully and with hands on guidance from the priest at the local church if this is truly the path God has set before me.
This is not a read it all in one sitting book.
Bishop Ware really delves into the how and why of Orthodox Christian history, from the inception of the Church, to the legalization of Christianity under Constantine, through the 7 Ecumenical Councils where the doctrines and creeds we follow to this day were codified, through the spread of the Church west and eastward into Europe and Asia.
As stated on the cover page, a clear and detailed introduction to the Orthodox Church written for the Non-Orthodox.
I think the summary of the book is the personal evaluation of the author on page.316 read as: "We (as Orthodox) recognise the Pope as first - but only among equals.
We do not consider that, in the first ten centuries of the Church, the Pope possessed direct and immediate power of jurisdiction in the Christian East, and so we find it impossible to grant such power to him today"
I would've liked a bit more theology, but you can't have everything.
To my surprise, the twentieth century history bits were my favorites- what could easily have devolved into an 'oh how we were oppressed by evil communists' rant was very balanced and insightful.
It's odd that someone with such a firm grasp on history can still claim that the Orthodox church practices Christianity as is was practiced during the age of the great councils, but no doubt there's a way to finesse the somewhat obvious differences between the national (dare I say nationalist?) churches of the present and the ideas of primitive Christianity.
This is the "go to" book on the history of the early church and teachings of the Orthodox Church. It was the first book I read on the Orthodox Church and started me on a road that led to my Chrismated on the Feast of the Transfiguration 1992.
Excellent history of the Orthodox Church.
The Orthodox Church has withstood so much persecution, including Islam, atheism, communism, and more. And though we're now a minority, we're still here, thank God.
A little bit dated now, but still the standard and best introduction to the Orthodox Church for English-speakers. I hope Metropolitan Kallistos issues a third edition of the book.
Good introduction to the Orthodox church. Read this while studying in Greece and trying to understand the Orthodox religion.
This is a well-written introduction to Orthodoxy by an author within the church, but well able to explain its history and theology to those outside.
He does a remarkably good job with telling the story of the 'Eastern' stream of the church over two millennia as it spread through many countries, in good times and bad.
This book was first published in 1963 and although revised for a new edition in 2015 (at least the final sentences of each country's history), the weight of 'contemporary' references are to before 2000.
Nevertheless one finishes the book admiring Eastern Christianity, and feeling that there can be hope for a reconciliation.
I recommend this book for all Christians, one as a history book: church history is complicated and Ware neither whitewashes the EO's mistakes nor unfairly blames Rome in doctrinal conflicts, and he presents the historical facts in a relatively objective fashion.
While nearly all of the book is passionately written, a few chapters in the second half presented very eloquent and compelling dissections of where Orthodoxy splits from the west and why.
I'd love to read more from Ware on those topics alone because he sums up exactly why I'm at home with Orthodoxy.I'm so very glad I read this book and will read it again in the future.
Being a book primarily concerning the history of the Orthodox Church, I'd love to see a revision that brings the reader up to current times (this version was published in 1997).
It definitely helped me to understand Eastern history and all the underlying political, cultural, and spiritual reasons behind the different stances and ideas floating about in the greater Christian world (both Eastern and Western).
Overall, a very thorough and intriguing history book that doesn't shy away from the hard chapters of Christian history and yet helps the Western reader engage more with the Eastern worldview.

The western empire and its church became more enmeshed with the fate of the Franks, crowning their king as Emperor, Frankish influence would extend to theology, as an addition to the Nicene Creed intended as a rebuttal to a local heresy found favor in the west, eventually being adopted by the pope.That proved to be a problem, as did the pope's authority in general, for his claimed jurisdiction over not merely the Roman see, but the whole of Christendom.
