https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9593913-requiem
Julian was totally forgettable here, his only purpose being to make Alex jealous for Lena and not having any further character development either.
(view spoiler)[Oh, he wanted to give Lena up and let her go so he decided to lie and hurt her at every chance he got and be a huge asshole instead.
I guess Julian's purpose of teaching Lena how to let go and move on and love again was totally bullshit.
Bad rating is from no character development--RECESSION of character development for Lena, Lena being a shitty person in general, shitty empty ending, Alex being shitty, the book's main focus being the stupidly annoying love triangle, and the nonexistent plot being completely unmemorable.
Warning: There might be MINOR spoilers so yea, be warned :)AFTER READING:When Alex and Lena were doing this...I looked like this.and then this..I CAN'T FREAKING CONTAIN MY STUPID TANGLED EMOTIONS!!!okay I'm calm.
(hide spoiler)] And was trying to avoid Lena and Julian.
Though Lena managed to save Alex too (view spoiler)[from the bear.
She has contributed greatly to the Invalid's cause, although she is a cured person herself.Who did Lena choose?I love it that Oliver did not spell it out for us.
(view spoiler)[She was the one who sold Lena and Alex to the authorities!
~EDIT #3~ ACTUAL REVIEW (SPOILERS AHEAD):Okay, I know a lot of people have read/liked my 'review' for the ending of Pandemonium and the blurb of requiem, but here's my long-awaited review of Lauren Oliver's Requiem.I'm going to be very, very honest here.
I was so focused on wanting Alex to reconcile with Lena that nothing else sparked my interest.Also, for a book with such bland emotion and frustrating (not in the good way) plot, the ending was awful.
I'm also disappointed in Lena because she gave up on Alex too quickly...I mean come on I know she thought he was dead and all that but still..you didn't saw him get killed so why take him as a dead man and basically forget him only half a year later????...but oh well HE IS BACK NOW FOLKS and he is going to ROCK in the third book!!!
I know as well that in the third book there will obviously be a love-triangle but I really need Lena to get back with ALEX!!!!
The Delirium TV SHOW has been picked up again, BY HULU. TO be aired on June 20th, 2014!  Holy shit! Delirium, by Lauren Oliver, is to become a TV Show! The Delirium, Lauren Oliver, TV Show has it's Lena!! Lena has been cast, guys!Click here to read 86 juicy pages of Requiem, plus an exclusive short story about ALEX!!!* (DYYING INSIDE!!)Delirium TV Show Casting: Alex and Hana have been cast... for better or worse?...there is another book right?The DELIRIUM series cannot end this way, so vague and
Lena has been cast, guys!Click here to read 86 juicy pages of Requiem, plus an exclusive short story about ALEX!!!* (DYYING INSIDE!!)Delirium TV Show Casting: Alex and Hana have been cast...
At the end it's like nothing is resolved, not even the love triangle (that no one believed in the first place anyways).I was already suspecting this was going to happen, when I reached the middle of the book (and a little after) and nothing significant had yet happened.
It had everything that I’d ever wanted in a book – unique writing that seemed almost vivid and scarily real, lots of character development, and the ending just – UHHH.
… Oh sure, Pandemonium can start off right where Delirium ended, but this book can’t do the same, especially when I sensed an ass-whoopin’ coming?
The first two books and the first ¾ of the third hype you up towards a fantastic ending that’s sure to blow your mind – or at least resolve the conflict between main characters.
How hard would it have been to shove in a little scene in the end, resolving Lena/Alex/Julian, and actually telling what happens afterwards?
When all good things must come to an end.
A horrible, horrible end that didn’t do any justice to the series.
Think how common it is for an author to be writing their fourth or fifth book in a series and starting spinoffs in the same world when even that gets old.
Overall, it wasn’t a bad series and Requiem wasn’t necessarily a bad book.
I feel bereft and let down after the promise and goodness that was Pandemonium.There are concepts and ideas there.
To me, Requiem doesn’t have an open ending.
Warning : there are spoilers for book 2 in the comments section, so don't go there unless you've at least read up through book 2.I can probably at least say that fans of the trilogy will want to read Requiem so they can finish out the story.I just expected more than this and truly wish that I could give a glowing report.
For everyone who is reading this trilogy, come back and tell me what you thought of that ending.
So if you like reading books before seeing the story play out on film, then you'll be wanting to pick this up anyway.
5 Predictions:1) Tack is possibly Julians brother.
Julian stated that everyone was afraid of his brother and same thing with Tack.
Julians brothers favorite book was Great Expectations and so is Tacks.2) Alex was cured3) Julian dies4) Raven or Lena's mother dies5) Lena goes back to Portland After reading it.
It lacked feelings besides for conversations between Lena and her mother.
I liked the book but what made me disappointed was all the loose ends at the end of the trilogy, what happens to Hana?
Alex or Julian?
The ending felt like Lauren Oliver was talking to us about our lives and it wasn't Lena at all.
Lena better choose Alex or I will personally find a way into the book and murder her.I mean, yeah sure, Julian's okay, I guess, if you like THAT kind of guy.
Yeah, I would look all stony and shit if the girl I ALMOST DIED FOR was kissing another guy.
If Alex and Lena aren't together, then- I can't even finish that thought.
THEY WILL BE TOGETHER.My predictions of what's going to happen:Somehow the Resistance takes down the stupid deliria-free government.They make a cure for the Procedure.ALEX AND LENA GET BACK TOGETHER.
I don't know, I don't know what to do with my life right now, all I know is that right now I can't rate/review this book.
Two days after: Okay, okay I'm cool.
I'm cool.
I think I can do this.
And as painful as it is, I'm gonna give this book 2.5 stars.Well, this book was a major disappointment, it got nothing solved!
I kinda wish this book was a joke and that this was like Part 1 of 2 of the final book as the movies are made now.
You know when you wait for like a big ending getting
You know when you wait for like a big ending getting everything solved and see who the heroine choose and if the rebellion wins over or get defeated by the government or something to get a closure?
Its really disappointing.For God's sake, It took me almost 5 days to finish it when I could easily have read it in one night.
I won't say anything else, that's it, I'm done with this book.Original review before reading:I need this NOW.
'Cause I NEED to know what happens with Lena and Alex and Julian.
After Reading: I must say, this is probably my least favorite out of the three books.It's not horrible (Obviously, since I gave it five stars) but it took forever for the pace to pick up, for it to get interesting.This book is mostly about the Resistance fighting back (HOORAH!!) but they can't just barge in and fight! They must plan first! Making most of the novel planing, not fighting.And we all now that planing is that as fun as fighting...Of course it's not all planning!Since, very much like
(hide spoiler)]But I did like how it ended.It brought a sense that things are going to get better.(forgive me for being cliche but...)To me this is the best kind of ending.And while I am sad to see this series go...I will be very unhappy if this series continues, since I know when a book series needs to end (Cassandra Clare doesn't though.
:'( ANOTHER ONE OF MY NUMEROUS EDITS:YAY!!!!THE WORLD DIDN'T END!!!!!NOW I'LL ACTUALLY GET TO READ THIS BOOK!!!!!In March...3 months from now...
A year?!?!
After how the last book ended they really expect me to wait a year to find out what happens!
I think I might die :(3/5/13Ok. Wait WTF?!
That wasn't the end was it?
That was probably the stupidest ending of a book ever!
It was more like the start to a spin-off series or a lame ass cliff hanger for book 4.
This is one of my favorite series and she just ruined it!
Yah that's still happening too.
If I had known that this was how the series would end I would have never bothered...
I'm sorry Lauren, but that piss-poor ending can't deserve any more than 2 and a half stars from me. It was good while it lasted.*sigh shrug**shrug sigh**shrigh*
Don’t you just love it when you get to the end of a series, close that back cover, sigh contentedly, think of stars and sunshine, regret that you no longer get to spend time in that world with those characters, but feel enclosed in a shining bubble of contentment and happiness for that wonderful ending, hugging the book with joy?
Now, I just think she has wasted my time with this drivel about nothing more than a love triangle and not one that was EVER believable.I want characters who grow during the course of a story, whether a single book or a series.
Español - EnglishPuedo decir que este libro tiene uno de los peores finales que he leído.
Con el único personaje que conecté fue con Julián, ni siquiera con Lena, quien en este libro es más insegura que inclusive en el primero.
Está narrado desde los puntos de vista de Lena y Hana.---I can say that this book has one of the worst endings I've read.
Everything remains undefined, all the action is in the last pages.The only character that I connected with was with Julian, not even with Lena, who in this book is more insecure than even in the first.It is narrated from the points of view of Lena and Hana.
I don't like Julian.
Julian is sheltered and too much of an important figure to be involved in Lena's romantic affairs.
While Alex helped Lena, Julian is the one that needs the taking care of.
My heart literally skipped like 5 beats when I read the ending of Pandemonium.
It was a small, hopeful spark in my heart and when Julian came into the story I got kinda mad.
I'm kinda attached to Alex, alright?
All I can think about right now is the word "Run" that Alex said when he was caught.
Lena better get back with Alex, or else.
While I was only mildly impressed with Delirium, and found Lena to be a weak and indecisive character, I was incredibly impressed with her development in Pandemonium.
Despite the all out war brewing between the Regulators and the Invalids, the main focus of the story was Lena's feelings for Alex and Julian--which changed every other chapter or so.
All in all, a disappointing conclusion to a promising series.(view spoiler)[Lena spent the entire story thinking about Alex.
That's the end of the whole story?
When I finished Pandemonium .
OMFG I HATE LOVE TRIANGLES, someone please tell me why they exist!!!
D:< In the end when Alex came back I was just like NOOO I like Julian with Lena .
I feel like the only one though : ( I never really liked Alex that much, I don't really know why :p.
I like Julian though.
& then when I really thought he died I was like Lena is finally happy again!
But then Alex came back xO.
She finally moves on - and she's happy!!!- and then BAM he's back NOOOOO.
D:< In the end when Alex came back I was just like
NOOO I like Julian with Lena .
I like Julian though.
& then when I really thought he died I was like Lena is finally happy again!
Now i just don't know what's going to happen to everyone.
I kind of wish Alex hadn't returned and then there'd be no love triangle and Julian and Lena would live happily ever after and they'd help the resistance conquer the DFA and the cure!
& Lena and Julian would end up together and she'd be reunited with her mom and Raven and Tack would be together : D But noooooooo
I don't even know how to express how much I want this book.I want to know what happens.And as morbid as this is, I kind of hope Julian dies, so that Lena's choice is so much easier.Um. Yeah.Just, um, forget about that last part.UPDATE: What's up with the old ladies up there?
I HAVE TO WAIT.After reading:Excuse me, what?
THAT IS NOT THE END THAT CAN NOT BE THE END YELL ME THERE'S A FOURTH BOOK OR I WILL CRY IT'D BE GOOD IF IT WAS THE SECOND IN A SERIES NOT THE FINAL NO NO NO NO
I always hating you now!Julian: Huh?Lena: Alex no wuv me.
Alex: Lena, I be loving you now.
I go now help everyone fight bad guys.Alex: Okay then, I be seeing you.Lena: Bye bye.Julian: Huh?The end.Random notes/thoughts:-In the first half Lena and the rest of the Invalids did nothing — they just plodded along in the Wilds arguing about what to do next.
-The only characters that were likeable in the ridiculous love square were Julian and Coral - Lena and Alex selfishly used them so they could play games with each other.-The reunion between Lena and Annabel was rubbish.
ANDI really really REALLY want her to end up with Julian!!I dont like Alex(sorry)With Alex she didnt have to fight it ..
Julian didnt hae that option, he went into that room with the certainty that he would die, and he was willing to die so that he could keep his memories of him and Lena.
When i was reading Delirium Alex didnt melt me the way that Julian did in Pandemonium.
just like Lena did with Alex.
And now that Alex has been all screwed up by the Crypts I dont think he is going to be very nice.
For as much shit as the end of this book got from everyone, I thought it was pretty perfect.
Open, yes, but some easy inferences tell you everything you need to know.I got just what I wanted from my favorite characters, and I won't lie: I was pretty excited about Lena's choice in the end.Oliver's beautiful, beautiful writing never hurts, either.
Lauren Oliver says, in a tweet to me:"I won't say a word!
I made some unconventional choices and I'm excited about it"AHHH!
She made unconventional choices!
Don't you love when authors do that and it's not just Mrs. Predictable writing a book?CANNOT WAIT FOR THIS MASTERPIECE TO BE IN MY HOUSE.
Abordé el último libro de esta trilogía con bastante recelo, principalmente porque había leído muchos comentarios desfavorables respecto del desenlace, y después de la frustración que me causó Leal de Veronica Roth, esperaba cualquier cosa.
Pero como recién había acabado Pandemonium, aproveché el impulso.La verdad, a mí me ha encantado, tanto que lo encuentro el mejor de los tres.
A diferencia de los dos primeros, que leí en forma bastante pausada, éste no lo podía soltar.
Se intenta explicar con una historia que se menciona varias veces en el libro, el juicio del rey Salomón, pero sigue sin convencerme.
Just posted my booktalk with detailed discussion: http://youtu.be/Kgpz7kS2HpA ! Love this world, loved where it was going, but I don't feel any closure, which has left me feeling less enthused with the series as a whole.
3.5 stars Well..  I'm going to start pleading my case here.First of all, I have to admit that I find this a genuinely authentic theme for a dystopian trilogy. Some readers may consider it obscenely absurd. Idiotic. Daft. Pick one.Not me.It's actually very clever.Can you honestly guarantee that with the rate things are going, something like this would be impossible to occur?I mean, hear this humanity.If dividing mankind into pre-determined factions to avoid social inconsistencies and emotional f
I look away, toward the hundreds and hundreds of people who have beendriven out of their homes, out of their lives, to this place of dust and dirtiness, all because they wanted the power to feel, to think, to choose for themselves.
So, where is this element of love in this final book?There is this one love interest, Alex, who is in love with Lena but I just can't see it almost anywhere, and there is this other love interest, Julian, whose love I can see and who ends up alone after choosing to leave behind everything he knew his entire life to chase the freedom of making his own choices.So I'm left feeling like:
Τα συναισθήματα μου για τη συγγραφέα καθ'όλη τη διάρκεια του βιβλίου :Διαβάζοντας και το τελευταίο μέρος αυτής της σειράς μπορώ να πω ότι μου άρεσε πολύ όλη η τριλογία και ότι έμεινα αρκετά ικανοποιημένη από το τέλος.Αυτό που με εντυπωσίασε αρχικά ήταν ο τρόπος γραφής της συγγραφέως.
Στο δεύτερο βιβλίο δεν κυριαρχούσε τόσο το συναίσθημα όσο στο πρώτο (τουλάχιστον για μένα δεν λειτούργησε) αλλά είχαμε περισσότερη δράση και αποκαλύψεις.
Δράση, αποκαλύψεις αλλά και ρομάντζο και πολύ δυνατές συγκινητικές στιγμές.
I read the end of Pandemonium and there was a moment when I seriously thought I was dead.
(some spoilers, okay).
As soon as they said an escapee from the Crypts I was like "ALEX!
ALEX ALEX ALEX!" And when he showed up, I was like "OH MY SWEET LORD!
YOU HAVE SAVED US" and then I was like...
Julian..I am so confused by my emotions right now.
Why do this to us Lauren?
Do you enjoy watching us suffer another YEAR while we wait for the next one.
I feel like I might die.Can't one of them die to make it easier?
At the end of Pandemonium I was convinced I wanted Lena to pick Julian, but after reading Requiem...First, I still like Julian better.
And at the middle of the book I found myself torn, for the first time in my life (really) I didn't know who I wanted Lena to choose!
I'm always very clear with my choices in love triangles, but in this one, I was really torn.The end is really open, but I know she chooses HIM at the end.Also, I loved Hana's plot line, it was really interesting and it really shocked me when she made THE revelation in one of the middle chapters.
SO DISAPPOINTED I love Lauren Oliver's writing, but I feel that Pandemonium deserved to be followed with something better--something less rushed.It's the curse of the third and final book. I hated Mockingjay because it was so rushed (like, oh, it's the final book, let's get it over with). I thought Lauren wouldn't let that happen...but I feel it did. Requiem was rushed and left me unsatisfied. This series WAS my favorite...but this ruined it. Still love the first two books.
