https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9831186-the-secret-places-of-the-heart
Referenced in The Secret History of Wonder Woman:...[Margaret] Sanger, who had divorced her husband, began a decades-long affair with H.G. Wells. (A barely fictionalized Sanger is the hero's lover in Wells's autobiographical 1922 novel, The Secret Places of the Heart.)(p99, Lepore)
Starts a bit slow - an industrialist comes to a doctor complaining of odd ailments and they journey together to try and uncover the sources of his illness. But I was fascinated by how much Wells used this novel to reveal deeper pyscholigical truths, about himself, but maybe about all of us. Also, some great female characters. Sometimes I think Wells didn't even know how much of a feminist he really was.
Kinda slow at the start but as he starts on his journey of self-discovery and falls truly in love with a woman, it sad that it ends with him taking his last breath with no one noticing, not even the night nurse. Spent his life alone with no real companionship only to experience it briefly and even still to die alone all because of pride.
A beautifully developed characterisation of a man with genius torn by a belief in a new age, meeting a woman soulmate who can never be one, and the social realities of England and his wife.
I read this because I’d heard it was about his affair with Margaret Sanger.
But it’s really more about an insipid man having a midlife crisis with some interesting ideas (running out of fossil fuels in 1922!) and some ideas that may have been new at the time but are now old (can men and women be friends?).
I love H G Wells but this was not his best.
And I’ve read a few others of his less famous books.
If you want his actual take on (first wave) feminism read Ann Veronica - which I remember as being so much better.
The protagonist comes to a psychoanalytic and asks to prescribe him a drug since he's such a cad.
Refusing him the drug the doctor condescends to go to a field trip together to sort the patient's women business out.
While on a trip they meet a nice American girl that the protagonist immediately falls in love with.
After securing the presence of reciprocal feelings the protagonists decides against having that girl since, again, he's such a cad.
He's resolute to sublime his desire into something high and useful and works himself to death, which is, because he's such a shameless cad, the best outcome imaginable for him.
A very powerful and thought-inspiring story, with interesting characters dissecting various topics, such as love, motivation, history, culture, and the global well-being of all mankind.Loved it from start to finish.
Read about 30 pages and decided it wasn't worth the effort. Misery loves company but it won't get mine. Unhappy people should find someone else to write about besides themselves.
