https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15283043-the-distance-between-us
3.5 starsI definitely need a bit of self-berating right now.I put off reading this book for so long and that because I was certain it would fall into my heap of a pile of ever-growing clichéd love stories read.But it didn’t!
Well… it didn’t fall that far from said pile, but what counts is where it landed in the end and that is in my ‘‘guilty pleasure’’ pile.That’s right, Kasie West is one hell of a guilty pleasure writer for me.Truth be told, the skeleton of her novels is always a little overused.
For instance, The Distance Between Us relates the story of a poor teenage girl who falls in love with a rich teenage boy.BUT.
You hear that?That’s the sound of my writing down this author’s name.--♦So that I can avoid all of her books in the future.♦--  You’re witty, Kasie West. I’ll give you that.It’s too bad you don’t know how to write a book, though, isn’t it?Because if you did know how to write a book… you would know that the romance in said book shouldn’t be mediocre. And that the storyline shouldn’t be half-assed. So you either don’t know how to write a book…Or you suck at it.I’ll let you choose.
She continuously manages to create down to earth, relatable characters and all-around fun books.The Distance Between Us follows Caymen Meyers, a girl who has certain opinions about rich people thanks to her mother's clear disdain.
But in a strange turn of events they begin spending more time together on these "career days." What happens next can only be described as one of the most ADORBS books you can ever read!While the novel is more romance centered, West never spares her characters room to grow and develop.
. .”“Because I’m afraid that once you catch me, the game’s over.”*Happy sigh*Kasie West writes the type of romance I love to read.
If you go into a normal young adult romance book you expect this: This book is not that. It's more of this: The main character of this book is actually very like-able. Caymen is snarky and outspoken. Even when cute boys are involved. *gasp*She is helping her mom out in her mom's doll shop.  Umm..it's more like this: She works all the hours she can spare for her mom and plans on putting off college for awhile because she wants to make sure her mom will be okay. She doesn't party. She does not fal
If you go into a normal young adult romance book you expect this:
The main character of this book is actually very like-able.
She works all the hours she can spare for her mom and plans on putting off college for awhile because she wants to make sure her mom will be okay.
It seems to work well.She does not tone herself down to impress the "boy"..."Note to self: Caymen is very good at sarcasm.""If you're recording notes for an official record.
I'd like the word 'very' stricken and replaced with 'exceptionally.'"The boy she meets at her mom's doll shop is very rich.
Yes, I loved this THAT much.
Total girl-crush.- Xander is a wonderful love interest.
Xander is cute.- The characters (Caymen especially) super relatable."I wonder why some people seem to be born knowing what they want to do with their lives and others - mostly me - have no idea."- PRE-SIPPED DRINKS.
YES, PLEASE.- This is the perfect summer read.
But like you said, anything worth having is worth the risk."If you haven't already, you have to read her other books.
Everything she writes is, like, I don't know, PERFECT?Check out Pivot Point!
"Feelings can be the most costly thing in the universe."  The cover and the premise of this book somewhat deceived me. Ha! Yes, it was cute and adorable. Funny, even. But that's not just about it. My expectations were different. Caymen Meyers is a teenage girl who works for her mom's doll store. One day a rich and cute guy named Xander Spence comes over to their store to buy a doll for her grandma. Because he obviously has the air of wealth, Caymen sees him as just another one of those spoiled
Caymen Meyers is a teenage girl who works for her mom's doll store.
One day a rich and cute guy named Xander Spence comes over to their store to buy a doll for her grandma.
Because he obviously has the air of wealth, Caymen sees him as just another one of those spoiled, rich kids who treat poor people differently.
As they begin to form friendship, Caymen slowly warms up to him and realizes that he's completely different from what she expected to be like.What I loved about this book was the humor.
First, I really thought Caymen was a likeable character but she's not.
Professional Reporter : This book review was recorded for Goodreads.com by myself at the request of Litchick. I survived the ordeal…PR: Thank you very much for allowing me to…what the hell are you wearing?LC: I came in costume.PR: Dressed as what? It looks like the 70s threw up on you.LC: Elton John. PR: You came to an interview for a book review that you requested dressed as-. You know what, why don’t we just get this over with? LC: *hums the opening bars to Rocket Man*PR: What made you want t
: This book review was recorded for Goodreads.com by myself at the request of Litchick.
PR: You came to an interview for a book review that you requested dressed as-.
LC: *hums the opening bars to Rocket Man*PR: What made you want to pick up The Distance Between Us instead of one of the 80 ARCs that you probably should have read instead?
Were you nervous because in the past you haven’t had the best track record with books that everyone else loved?
PR: And after reading the book?
PR: *bites out* What were your feelings upon completion of the book?
Despite the odd morbid elements as mentioned in the intro, (view spoiler)[ (there actually was a cheesy mud fight scene at the grave, lol!^^) (hide spoiler)] I know now I can rely on Kasie West for fluffy, light reads.
Just to give you a peek at the story- Caymen (the lead female) is poor (sorry there’s no other simpler way to say it when the character herself keeps reminding you that) while Alexander (the lead male) is rich and I’m pretty sure you know what comes next taking to account that this is a YA romance.
^^I know I may have sneezed out a lot of negatives but I still enjoyed reading the story.
Pretty in Pink meets Pride and Prejudice. That's the best explanation of this book I've seen so far. Kasie West has done it again... I thought I was a fan of her writing after I read Pivot Point. After reading The Distance Between Us... I may have escalated to fangirl.  This book made me all kinds of happy. First reason... that cover. I love love it. Caymen Meyers lives with her single mother and learned early on that the rich are very different than her. Working the register at her mother's dol
Caymen Meyers lives with her single mother and learned early on that the rich are very different than her.
"If you say so."Cayman soon finds out that Xander is being groomed to take over his father's hotel business but he feels like he's being forced into it and Caymen isn't entirely sure what she wants to do after graduation but she thinks it will be helping her mom in the store even though that's the last thing she wants.
I know I'll be buying a copy for my bookshelf.After loving both Pivot Point and The Distance Between Us, Kasie West is now on my auto-buy list.P.S.
I mean honestly, that’s really all this book was … a poor girl hating on rich boy because rich people suck!
The MC couldn't have been more clear in her disdain for rich people if she tried … like seriously!
Yep … that’s the book … the whole book!I really did not like Caymen ...
but Kasie West failed to explain to me WHY Caymen is a cool girl and worthy of Xander's affections.
Xander was all in from the moment he decided "this is the girl" but like ...
I can see why Caymen would like him ...
It’s so dumb I reached out to scientists and had my number of brain cells tracked just so I could confirm to you all that it decreased significantly after I read this book.I don’t even know how to convey just how bad this is.
A monster!- Fun little tidbits of writing like: “Is Scarlett going because I don’t know if I can put up with her this year?”- And: “The bartender points to the door off to the side from the stage when Skye gives him the questioning shoulder raise.” Ah, yes, the good ol’ questioning shoulder raise!- Pretty sure someone has the Chinese symbol for acceptance tattooed or some sh*t, which just...kill me- There’s my FAVORITE indication of very bad writing: the insta-friendship.
The boy is simply beyond wonderful!This was a beautiful book about a beautiful budding relationship between two beautiful people!(Ale)Xander and Caymen.Guys I fangirled SO HARD!
ONE SITTING!AND I SHOULD HAVE BEEN STUDYING DURING THOSE HOURS, BUT INSTEAD, I STARTED AND FINISHED A BOOK!I wasn't intending on finishing, but I literally could not stop.I couldn't tear my eyes away from the page!Xander is who I want.
I want a guy exactly like Xander!
I can't even!A lot of times, I'll love a chick lit because the guy is so wonderful, but in this one not only did Xander have my heart, but Caymen did as well.Her sarcasm is through the roof hilarious!
“So Caymen...""So, Xander...""Like the islands.""What?""Your name.
It's so predictable and so convenient but also so adorable and so addicting and just amazing? I loved it so much!!! Xander is bae!!!!! Also so respectful!!!!I love everything. I HAD to read this book in one day. HAD TO.
The author doesn't pause to "explain" when Caymen's being sarcastic...and believe me, I read a TON of books where the author feels the need to explain.
I laughed out loud so so much.“Note to self: Caymen is very good at sarcasm.”“If you’re recording notes for an official record, I’d like the word ‘very’ stricken and replaced with ‘exceptionally.”  + Caymen and Xander are just adorably shippable.
This book is SO VERY UNREALISTIC at the end that it kind of spoiled the realistic and adorable romance.
(hide spoiler)]Don't get me wrong: I FREAKING LOVED THIS BOOK.
I THOUGHT WE STOPPED USING THAT LINE IN 1990!Towards the end of the book, I did feel like Xander's wealth was mentioned on every other page!
I felt like we hardly saw Caymen and Xander as a couple, if you know what I mean?
I feel like Caymen's sarcasm eventually reached Xander, and although he was the serious one at times, he began to gain his own sense of dry humour.
“So Caymen...""So, Xander...""Like the islands.""What?""Your name.
Overall, this book was just the cutest, and I hope to find someone that loves me the way that Xander loves Caymen.
“Feelings can be the most costly thing in the universe.”This was an amazingly short, cute and absolutely awesomely sarcastic story.
Really enjoyed reading this one.
Literally took me less than 6hours to finish the book.
Loved the writing style, characters, plot, and the ending (the ending was my favorite part).
Caymen, she was priceless, absolutely loved her wit and personality.
Skye, was bubbly, happy and perfect, plus the best friend ever to Caymen.
This was the first book I’ve ever by this author and it was (shockingly) a pleasant surprise.
Favorite quote:  “Anything worth having is worth the risk.”
However, this doesn't mean I can't enjoy stories like The Distance Between Us, although I do think West's Pivot Point series might be a better fit for me.Caymen is pure brilliance.
I find this important.The two characters I'm really conflicted about are Caymen's mother, Susan, and the love interest, Xander.
I'll get to Susan in a bit, because her character ties in with the major problem I have with this book (besided the chocolate milk debacle, of course), which is the unsatisfactory resolution to the class issues.
He was not merely a love interest, but a real, albeit spoiled, person in his own right.As I already mentioned, the class divide is also where Susan comes in.
*4.25 STARS!*Ahhh, this is SO CUTE!I already read The Fill-In Boyfriend before and I thought that that was going to be my favorite Kasie West book, but boy was I wrong because I clearly hadn't read this one yet!I'm such a sucker for cute romance novels these days!
It might be a bit predictable but it's just so adorable mixed with just the right amount of humor, I couldn't help but love it.This book deals with a lot of issues like poverty, health struggles, what to do with your future, family drama..
I'll definitely read more Kasie West in the future!
I can give you the number of Peggy's creator if you want to ask.""You have the phone number of this doll's creator?""No." I'm kind of on a roll right now, this is the fourth book this month wherein I legitimately liked the female protagonist (trust me this rarely happens), even going so far as 'loving' her.
It didn't satisfy everything because the ending was rushed and rather unsatisfactory which is why I only gave it 4 stars but considering my bad experience with intolerable protagonists and rudimentary plots, I'd say this was a great break from all terrible-ness out there.Plus, did I mention Xander (ugh I love him) and Caymen are adorable?
read the book and see it for yourself.Caymen is your average girl next door, living with her mother in an apartment right on top of their doll shop.
Yes, she sells dolls, but deep inside she is not satisfied with this life, wanting to do other things, but right in this moment, she doesn't have a certain answer to her future.
She could have explored more in depth this characters, but stop at a certain point.Xander had nothing special, just an average boy who was not happy with his life, despite having everything in it.
Buddy read with Maymay, who also recommended this!3.5This buddy read was pretty much a spontaneous one.
I was having a crisis over my slump which has been going on for a week and a half now and then May recommended I try out this one and she reread it with me!
Having read PS I Like You earlier this year, I had high hopes a Kasie West book would fix my slump.
I think it did!
“His eyes are so intense I want to look away .
or never look away, I can’t decide.” The Distance Between Us is not as
Having read PS I Like You earlier this year, I had high hopes a Kasie West book would fix my slump.
The Distance Between Us is not as good as PS I Like You, but it's just as adorable, light, and fluffy.
It was also super funny since our MC, Caymen is a pro when it comes to sarcasm and I just loved it.
“So Caymen...""So, Xander...""Like the islands.""What?""Your name.
everything was miraculously fixed in a few pages and I think I wouldn't have minded at all if the book was a bit longer.
Read this book for Xander, guys.
Oh my dear, dear Kasie West...Where have you been all my life?? Well, in all fairness, it's my fault I've never picked up a masterpiece that is a KW novel. My friend, Anna, has been more than clear about how I would love this author, if only for her adorable, yes, absolutely adorable male leads. And, ya know, she was right-as usual. Damn know it all Alien. Anyway, I digress. My whole point is that when I was down and tired and couldn't hardly read this weekend, what did I do? I listened to some
This book did what no person could do, no matter how hard they tried, and that's how I know I waited until the perfect time to start obsessing over this woman's books.A lot of people don't get my humor.
Xander was the equivalent to every good person in the world I feel like I would date.
And yeah, my heart is super easy to break into (and break, when it comes to book boys) but lately the boys in these stories have had to work really hard for my fangirl affection....But with Xander?
I finished it that same night, well, 4am in the morning (reading into the squeaky hours of the night is one of my absolute favourite activities, but only the best* books can take me there).The Distance Between Us is so much what I love about YA.
The swoon and zingy-fun-antagonistic-cute chemistry between Caymen and Xander = addictive.I loved the characters.
One of my favourite reads this year and a new lifetime contemporary favourite <3 *best = my kind of books <3
Tired after a full-day work? Fighting the flu or whatever annoying winter disease? Feel like your attention span is no more than several minutes? Your reading time is shrinking away to nothing? Need to read a fluffy light book that won't ask you too much focus?  I've got what you need.  "Is that your subtle way of saying you missed me last week?""I've missed hot chocolate. I just think of you as the guy who brings it to me. Sometimes I forget your name and call you hot chocolate guy."  "Sean rai
Tired after a full-day work?
Fighting the flu or whatever annoying winter disease?
Your reading time is shrinking away to nothing?
Need to read a fluffy light book that won't ask you too much focus?
I've got what you need.
"Is that your subtle way of saying you missed me last week?""I've missed hot chocolate.
I just think of you as the guy who brings it to me.
Sometimes I forget your name and call you hot chocolate guy."
"Sean raises one eyebrow when he sees us, probably thinking, didn't we all agree that this boy is too pretty?"
plot - 12/20characters - 14/20creativity - 16/20writing - 16/20pace - 7/10ending - 8/10= 73/100 C-Okay first this book wasn't all that bad.
It seemed like they were each separate events being played instead of them each being woven together in a story :/This book is a crazy quick read for me and I'm sure it would be for anyone.
I read it in on sitting!
It is a great summer read, but as you can see by my rating not my faovirte.
I personally won't recommend it but so many of my close friends have adored it so I say it works both ways:)Okay goodnight loves!
“Is that your subtle way of saying you missed me last week?”“I've missed my hot chocolate.
I just think of you as the guy who brings it to me.
Sometimes I forget your name and call you hot chocolate guy.”Ten points for Caymen's sarcasm, because let's be honest, that accounts for 80% of the reason why this book is worth reading.
I still prefer The Fill-In Boyfriend (and I don't think it will be dethroned easily), but The Distance Between Us is definitely better that West's last novel, By Your Side, so I can say I'm happy with it.
It’s all these complications that have me thinking adorbs (see if you can count how many times I use this word in reference to Caymen, Caymen and Alex or anyone in this book for that matter.) But by golly!
This book is the definition of CUTE: -See me grin as I recall his moment at the end.
Theirs is a sweet connection that had me excited at the possibilities of ‘them;’ then frustrated at all those things that got in the way of the same.
(Seriously, make me stop grinning.) ****Readers of all things cute and contemporary, this book's for you
I loved the witty,sarcastic humor of Caymen,and the way she interacts with people cracks me up all the time.Xander,the charming rich boy or the live version of Ken(Barbie doll's sweetheart) is incredibly swoon-worthy,sweet and thoughtful,and I loved the growth of their cute,romantic relationship which started from total strangers to friends,to "career day dates"(Ooh,I totally adored those part,lol!)I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book,but there had been a little twist in the story that I found a bit weird..but still,I liked the ending.I want to thank my sweet friend,Boots for recommending this book to me.
Por eso mismo, el día que Xander Spencer entra en la tienda, todo cambia.Caymen tiene un sentido del humor único que nadie parece entender.
Así, el dinero y la falta de él es el principal obstáculo entre Caymen y Xander.A medida que se van conociendo, Caymen se da cuenta de que Xander no es para nada como lo había imaginado y que, al igual que ella, no tiene idea de qué hacer con su futuro, ya que está resignado a hacerse cargo del negocio familiar (aunque el de él es muy rentable, por supuesto).
*please ignore sentences that don't make sense and spelling errors I was high on xander when I wrote this and have already edited twice don't have more energyBefore I begin, I’d like to have a moment of silence for Xander’s smile (the one I’m never waking up to in this lifetime) because from what I’ve heard, it’s pretty darn good.I mean, there’s this:He throws me his smile.
I want to talk about his smile or kissing.
It even involved the you’re-not-like-other-girls trope, but I’m not going to judge Kasie West for it, because dammit I love Caymen and Xander so much I need them to be real so I can third wheel all the time.PROS: XANDER SPENCE.
