https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/201388.Minima_Moralia
Perhaps the great book of the oncoming Trump era. Adorno's depth of observation, critical analysis, and disgust at late-capitalist culture reads as a cry from the least false oracles of Delphi. His intellect burns ultra-bright, spouts of water on a magnesium fire. Aphorism as razor to drain the infection, but where are the willing nurses? The entire work could be quoted, but who's listening? A few will take heed as humanity passes on sedate, confused, uninvolved, happy, dumb, unflowering, swollen and mute with delusion into the graveyard of potential.
Imagine your grandfather complaining about how the world is going to hell in a hand-basket. Then, imagine that your grandfather is the most well-read and erudite German bro. That's what this book is.
Well-nigh every sentence can stand alone as an object to be admired and marveled over for its aesthetic grace, though its nonporous exterior and taut configuration repels the casual effort to penetrate its meaning, its essential positional importance to the message Adorno is rather haughtily attempting to convey.
This precisely distributed blanket of mordant flakes may, on occasion, move the reader to wish to seek out the bucket-tipper on high and deliver unto him a swift kick in the ass—but such urges are fleeting, and mood prevails; and if that mood inclines for difficult dispensations from an erudite and saturnine elite then you will continue to keep your arms outspread and shiver in the bleak arctic chill of Adorno's disapproval.
A languorous howl of despair and anger - but who would not feel these things in the ashes of Germany 1945?I was surprised by how fierce Adorno can be - I've heard horror stories of his impenetrable style.
Here, I was surprised, both at the crispness of his style, and the depth of his cultural references.
His barbed aphorisms will remain with you, vicious and snarling, a rabid dog tearing into your leg.This book offers a damning critique of all of society, from fascism to door handles - although, at times it feels like the ramblings of a grumpy old man, who offers not even the hint of a solution, and despairs that all is lost.
The theory and practice of despair.
Adorno is so wonderfully negative and devastating in his attacks on just about everything that there is a certain sense of hopelessness and everything is shit that prevades out of the pages, but within this negativity is an unspoken greatness to what can be great and beautiful. I have no idea what to say, this book is just great.
I read this bit while SXSW was going on and I couldn't help but think that in some banal way (maybe it was the startlingly contemporary reference to unnecessary horn-rimmed glasses) portions of this acerbic passage, Expensive reproduction, might apply to the homogenization and follow-the-leader fashion of the much-maligned hipster culture, which ostensibly was once meant to be "independent" and distinct from the culture industry (as to whether "indie" culture/music was ever anything but another way to divide people and show membership in different groups, just not the designated "cool" or "popular" groups, is another question, see portions of Our Band Could Be Your Life):
After I read this text I truly ran to the bookshelves and tried to lift myself out of this book's funk by Re-reading Epictetus and Seneca.
READ GREEK PHILOSOPHY INSTEAD (and get outside and play)Probably the biggest angst-ridden crock of shit since Nausea by Sartre.
Give me Epictetus and Seneca over this wretched (the whole world is a concentration camp) bullshit anyday - to think how many of today's scholars still cling to this critical theory - Agamben, Butler, Foucault, anyone born in France of Italy doing critical theory in the last 40 years, etc.
My copy is completely damaged from reading and re-reading. There is a strain of pure modernism, of the highest designs for art and thought with nothing but disdain for anything else. Anti-capitalist. Severe. I dig it.
Adorno's writing style, while initially difficult, eventually becomes more lucid. It just takes some time. However, he provides, again and again, smart observation after smart observation. The little essays in here are also remarkably personal, and we get a very good sense of Adorno-the-individual. My sole major reservation is the overwhelmingly classist overtones. While a critique of mass culture is indeed necessary, it probably shouldn't be this condescending.
Adorno ve en önemli eseri olan Minima Moralia [Asgari Etik] yaşamın bir çok alanına etkin bir eleştirel kuramla farklı bir yorumlayış getirmiştir. Düşünce yapısındaki zerafet ve derinlik ustalığı sizi etkileyecektir. Adorno için söyleyebileceğim tek şey üstüste koyduğum tüm taşları yıkıyor olması.
proof of just how negative negative dialectics can be--a potent dose of precision grumpiness. take as needed.
Minima Moralia does a lot to verify Marcuse's claim.
The book presents itself as Adorno's dissembled thoughts and observations, from single sentence aphorisms to ostensible diary entries; but upon close reading, these ideas have real cohesion and a very ambitious address and import.
I think this is more a literary than a philosophical work, if such distinctions interest you, but Minima Moralia is as provocative, astute and thoroughly convincing as Adorno's serious philosophical books (if not as rigorously argued) and far more pleasurable to read.
I read this alongside 'The Grand Abyss Hotel' which I thoroughly recommend for texture.
The book was first published in 1951 and was largely written during the Second World War. It is structured in many short chapters, each making a particular point.
My favourite example of the former is chapter 24, titled ‘Tough Baby’ and deserves an extended quote:’There is a certain gesture of virility, be it one’s own or someone else’s, that calls for suspicion.
More seriously, Adorno says some very interesting things about the role of intellectuals in society, the toxicity of fascism, and the psychological implications of mass consumption.
Adorno explained this with especial elegance.
I tried reading this in college and I definitely wasn't ready for it then.
At first Adorno seems like little more than an unapologetically condescending snob, but as I worked into it, I found myself consistently blown away by his bleak, piercing observations about modernity.
And they are made all the bleaker by the odd format of this, which gives you little glimpses into a mind that was obviously supremely unhappy in fleeing from European fascism to the schizoid, hyper-capitalism of Los Angeles.
Adorno's haunted, despairing analysis is hard to get through, but I think it's even harder not to feel haunted by it yourself.
adorno's best zine! should be renamed as "rants and raves on alienated culture from a grumpy old man."
L'immagine più pura di questo sentimento è quella della regina che guarda la neve che cade attraverso i vetri della finestra e si augura di avere una bambina che somigli alla bellezza senza vita e pur vivente dei fiocchi, alla tinta nera e luttuosa del telaio della finestra e alla goccia di sangue che scaturisce dalla puntura, e che muore proprio nel momento in cui essa nasce.
Come l'esaudimento della preghiera non era altro che la morte, così anche il salvataggio finale rimane una semplice apparenza.
Ogni contemplazione e speculazione filosofica non può fare altro che ricalcare pazientemente, in figure e abbozzi sempre nuovi, l'ambiguità della malinconia.
I feel like I may one day look back on reading minima moralia with some nostalgia.that being said, I almost gave the book an even lower rating because I find Adorno to be kind of a repulsive human being: hermetic, arrogant, and presumptuous in the worst egotistically male-centric way one might imagine for a collection of writings with such profundity.
granted, i feel I did miss a significant amount of adorno’s meaning from my own inexperience, and Adorno writes a lot about irony and sophistry, so perhaps I read him too straightforward..???
A previous review:"Adorno is so wonderfully negative and devastating in his attacks on just about everything that there is a certain sense of hopelessness and of everything being shit that pervades the book's pages, but within this negativity is an unspoken greatness, a sense of what can be beautiful.
I have no idea what to say, this book is just great."To the author of this wonderfully to-the-point review: thank you, and I had the same impression.
Like Kraus, Adorno can thank God that he often shoots over the target but seldom beside it.
I read this book for my class on Critical Theory of the Frankfurt School.
For each section, pairs from the class presented on an aphorism or two and related it back to other sections from earlier in the book or to other Frankfurt School readings from the course.
One joke I liked to make is that Adorno speaks in a way that lends itself to the facebook status.But I fell a few weeks behind and so had to read a big chunk of the book in a more traditional format and it was still rewarding that way as well.
Adorno isn't concerned with offering solutions: only pointing out how the world is broken.
"The bourgeois needs the bayadere, not merely for pleasure, which he grudges her, but to feel himself a god." yes ok go on "The nearer he gets to the edge of his domain and the more he forgets his dignity, the more blatant becomes the ritual of power." fine yes ok "The night has its joy, but the whore is burned notwithstanding." ok sure this just seems the the same thing again "The rest is the Idea." fuck off teddy
Amazing, especially the opening and the ending. One can of course do without the sexism and the psychoanalysis, and even for me the negativity goes too far sometimes. But his aesthetic heart is in the right place, and he writes like no one else.
NOT AS DEPRESSING AS PEOPLE SAY IT IS still very depressing
Every work of art is an uncommitted crime
I thought this was really impressive and got me thinking in so many ways. That’s what I love about books like these! Hugely intellectual and mouth-wateringly good in places although it took its time to get going. Here are some of my best bits:• “whatever is, is experienced in relation to its possible non-being.”• “For the value of a thought is measured by its distance from the continuity of the familiar.”• “There is only one way to be happy in this world, and that is to do everything to make oth
He experiences drastically and vitally the ignominious choice that late capitalism secretly presents to all its dependants: to become one more grown-up, or to remain a child.”•	“Amid the network of now wholly abstract relations of people to each other and to things, the power of abstraction is vanishing.”•	“The conception of unfettered activity, of uninterrupted procreation, of chubby insatiability, of freedom as frantic bustle, feeds on the bourgeois concept of nature that has always served solely to proclaim social violence as unchangeable, as a piece of healthy eternity.
of E., Adorno wrestles with dialectical thinking here with particular emphasis on aesthetics, politics, and truth.
Even in working through these ideas in mere glimpses, Adorno comes back, again and again, to the question of where art goes (and by extension, where humanity goes) after the fascist horror of National Socialism.
Fascism is the lens through which he sees relativism dominating culture, eventually leading to the human desire to cling to any political anchor, no matter how gruesome.
doesn't use himself) reifies the horrors of relativism that made fascism attractive (which, given our current political state, wasn't, like, far-fetched).
My review was a bit long for Goodreads, but you can read it at my website.
It begins:It helps to know that this 1951 book, an unclassifiable philosophical masterpiece consisting of 153 divisions ranging in length from the aphorism to the brief essay, was written largely in the light of Southern California.
Adorno was a German-Jewish philosopher and member of the Frankfurt School, an institute devoted to the investigation of social phenomena from a neo-Marxist perspective inflected by psychoanalysis and German Idealism.
Samenvatting van het nawoord: tijdens de jaren '60 toonde een feministe haar borsten aan Adorno tijdens zijn college, hij trok naar een berg in Zwitserland en kreeg een hartaanval. Zijn laatste woord was "borsten" (of misschien "tetten", de biografen zijn er niet volledig uit), which was totally weird want hij sprak geen Nederlands. Oké, dat is deels gelogen, maar ook deels waar en wat wil je nog meer?
He’s seemingly against everything because everything has been poisoned by the totalizing commodification of all life under capitalism, more so since this was written.
To him the mechanized death machine the Nazis employed was the logical conclusion of all life being subsumed into commodity exchange.
We are the subtotal of commodity brands and the real cost is our subjectivity.
] The abundance of commodities indiscriminately consumed is becoming calamitous.” We collect books like we line up for the new iPhone.
All of life is reduced to an exchange relationship, says Adorno.
But even when I feel like Adorno is onto something brilliant, when one of the aphorisms in this book really hits me close to home, I feel like I've already read it before, and read it said better: really, Minima Moralia's best aphorisms are the ones in which Adorno just regurgitates, almost verbatim, Marx.
I don't feel like there's anything new that I'm getting from Adorno—and while I sympathize frequently with his cultural malaise, I just can't bring myself to read those last seventy pages: time is limited, a precious commodity in our world of late capitalism, and I'd rather spend mine reading Marx.
Part 2 – 1945p.106 – Uninformed opinion – The Third Reich failed to produce a single work of art, a single mental structure capable of satisfying even the meagre liberalistic requirement of “quality.” p.109 – Second harvest – Talent is perhaps nothing other than successfully sublimated rage, the capacity to convert energies once intensified beyond measure to destroy recalcitrant objects.p.146 – Palace of Janus – What has become alien to men in the human component of culture, its closes part, which upholds them against the world.
