https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2248573.Brisingr
Absolutely brilliant!  There's something special about a series that you can read time and time again, and always come away with a new interpretation and sense of wonder.One thing that hasn't changed (despite how many times I've read this series) is my complete and utter love for the world of Alegaesia.We follow Eragon, once a simple farm boy, now a Dragon Rider and Alegaesia's only hope for freedom, as he fights for his country and against the evil emperor, Galbatorix.Through Eragon's detour
There's something special about a series that you can read time and time again, and always come away with a new interpretation and sense of wonder.One thing that hasn't changed (despite how many times I've read this series) is my complete and utter love for the world of Alegaesia.We follow Eragon, once a simple farm boy, now a Dragon Rider and Alegaesia's only hope for freedom, as he fights for his country and against the evil emperor, Galbatorix.Through Eragon's detour into Farthen Dur, we learn how deep his morals run and his true character.
For the love of all that is good and decent in the world, MAKE THE EXPOSITION STOP!!!I didn't think it was possible for this series to get worse after Eldest. I was wrong. This book is nearly 800 pages of pointless adjectives, with perhaps six pages' worth of plot... most of which is just review (described in *excruciating* detail) from the previous books.Don't waste your time or money... unless you really need a cure for insomnia.
I love this book. I wish it was longer. Amazing!
One of the shorter descriptions was as follows: "[A] bizarre implement: a single-edged weapon, two and a half feet long, with a full tang, scale grips, a vestigial crossguard, and a broad, flat blade that widened and was scalloped near the end, a shape reminiscent of a dragon wing." I found one sword description--for a sword the protagonist only used for a couple chapters--at a mind-blowing two hundred words, and don't even get me started on the chapter where Eragon actually makes a sword that matters.
Saying "fire" in the Ancient Language WHILE THINKING IT WAS A CURSE WORD and NOT KNOWING HE EVEN HAD MAGIC was how Eragon accidentally cast his first spell in the first book.
There are also points of the book where I can clearly see familiar plot points that I have seen in other books or series, like Star Wars or LOTR.I also found Paolini's waxing on religion and philosophy through his main character annoying - it's as if he is trying to make this series more poignant than it is should be - because after all, it is just a good fantasy tale at its core and I feel like he should just stick to those roots.I will be interested to see how Paolini wraps this complex story up.
If you want a story with awesome dragons and magic, this is a series to check out! I listened to this on audio and it was SO engaging. This book had a lot of action sequences, as well as many moments that were packed with emotion. What a great blend! Uhnnn, I just love it.
I just completed reading Brisingr, and I must say that I was very impressed with the plot!To compress all of my thoughts and the plot in to only one word, this has to be it - Unpredictable.Certain events that happened in the book really took me by surprise and I have to applaud Christopher Paolini to even think about such a complex plot.
That, I can promise you!One word of advice: Do not let the horrible movie of the first book tarnish your impression of the cycle.
Brisingr (The Inheritance Cycle, #3), Christopher PaoliniBrisingr or, The seven promises of Eragon Shadeslayer and Saphira Bjartskular , c 2008Brisingr is the third novel in the Inheritance Cycle by Christopher Paolini.
A deluxe edition of Brisingr, which includes removed scenes and previously unseen art, was released on October 13, 2009.
Brisingr focuses on the story of Eragon and his dragon Saphira as they continue their quest to overthrow the corrupt ruler of the Empire, Galbatorix.
Eragon is one of the last remaining Dragon Riders, a group that governed the fictional nation of Alagaësia, where the series takes place.
I feel like the story just sort of meanders around.
I don't like to go to long drawn out weddings in real life.
Yet again, I feel as if things just sort of meandered about, story lines just got smooshed and pushed together.
It reminded me of one of the Harry Potter books (maybe OOTP) Where Harry's character just got on my nerves.
Eragon was on my nerves throughout the book.
Maybe this is all because Paolini is so young and started these books so young.
It's very disappointing.Perhaps if the book lost about a third of it's over descriptive text it would have been a much better, and tidier read.
Is it just me, or is this series on a serious downward spiral?
Eragon was uninventive but entertaining; Eldest was a bit of slog, but pulled through in the end; Brisingr, however, just left me exhuasted and annoyed.
The whole series has been a cup of Tolkein, a dollop of McCaffrey, a dash of Lackey, and now we're adding a teaspoon of Rowling.
When Eragon and the Deathly Hallows comes out, I'm just going to skip to the end.
“The purpose of life is not to do what we want but what needs to be done.”1. Sentence: “Eragon stared at the dark tower of stone wherein hid the monsterswho had murdered his uncle, Garrow.”What the fart.Seriously.WHAT THE FART.This series goes downhill rapidly with every book I read. I really liked the  first book , I found the world-building to be amazing and original, even though I noticed the similarities to other fantasy novels. I didn't mind, though. The  second book  was then a big disappo
Nope, that's certainly *not* how you maintain your characters.Just like in Eldest, endless chapters were spent on unnecessary, long-winded, tiring ramblings about jewelry, power structures, cooking and eating habits including the concept of being vegetarian (which Eragon clearly never fully understood), plus completely redundant scenes that were explored in full length, but had no actual significance to the plot.
(view spoiler)[(The Varden are actually evil folks while Galbatorix really is the good guy muahahahah) (hide spoiler)]Well, yeah, a few things got revealed, some of them really sucked for Eragon, I'll give him that.Anyway, I will finish this series!
και σχεδόν πάει κι ο μισός Απρίλης και πλησιάζει στο τέλος του όπου θα πάρω για τέταρτη και τελευταία φορά βιβλίο του Παολίνι και θα μάθω επιτέλους πώς τελειώνει η ιστορία που άφησα ατέλειωτη από το 2010 και δεν συνέχισα όταν πήρα το τέταρτο βιβλίο δώρο το 2014.Όπως και με το προηγούμενο εδώ υπάρχει ξανά βελτίωση στη γραφή και στην ιστορία, εμβαθύνεται περισσότερο το ιστορικό υπόβαθρο της Αλαγαισίας, οι ήρωες είναι πιο καλά σμιλευμένοι πλέον και η ιστορία έχει πάρει μια τελική και άγρια τροπή.Ήταν αργό βιβλίο να πω την αλήθεια αλλά δεν με κούρασε.

I really like this book a lot. Alhamdulillah. I thought 'Brisingr' is a lot better than 'Eldest'.Paolini is a good author.Oromis, Glaedr and Angela are one of my favourite characters.
This book should be called Blahsingr because all it is is 800 pages of Blah Eragon, blah Roran, blah Arya, blah Orik, blah Galbatorix (which I'm certain is a new prescription drug for indigestion), blah, blah, blah.
All of this will no doubt occur after we've read 600 more pages of recap in the final book of the cycle.Still, I have to keep reading because I know by the time two years passes and the final book comes out I'll have forgotten how lame two out of three of these books were and will pick it up and read the ending and hopefully be shocked to learn that Galbatorix wins and all that is good in the world is gone because that is the only way Paolini can surprise us at this point.
i think what makes this series so enjoyable for me is the fact that I love the narrator in the audiobooks.
I feel like if I didn't have that like for him I might not enjoy the books as much but I love them dearly.
(view spoiler)[One little tiny problem I have with this series is the inclusion of Rorin and Katrina's romance.
(hide spoiler)] It seems really out of place to me.
I just find myself not caring about it as much.Love this book though and I am starting Inheritance right away!
I was glad that Chris Paolini ended up spliting this book in two because I didn't want Eragon's adventure to finish. I felt like all the characters moved forward in their development and that Eragon finally came into his own as a dragon rider. Fantastic. I highly recommend this book.
I've spent two weeks trying to get through this 700-page snoozefest and I'm still completely uninterested in what happens next.
I can muster more enthusiasm for the third season of 'Rock of Love.'To be fair, I've never been ecstatic about the Inheritance trilogy (although I think there's going to be one more book because 700 pages just wasn't long enough).
Writing best-selling novels was out of the question!) Eldest was a little better, which I attributed to the author maturing.I had high hopes for Brisingr.
This book could've easily been pared down to a breezy 500 pages.
Whilst I've been going through the Inheritance Series I must admit I've struggled and have thought a
By far my favorite of the tetralogy. Paolini allows his characters to grow within the story in a very crafted yet natural way.There is still plenty of irrelevant verbiage, but at this point I already got used to it.
Zach Highley-GergelMrs. EbarviaWorld Literature Honors10-21-08 Online Book Review Brisingr Fire; is the definition of the title of the novel in the ancient language. Brisingr is the title and was written by Christopher Paolini. He has written Eragon(the first book of the Inheritance cycle), Eldest(the second), and Brisingr(the third). The protagonist is Eragon who and with his dragon Saphira. The antagonist of the novel is the forces of Galbatorix and Galbatorix himself. Eragon’s goal with the h
Zach Highley-GergelMrs. EbarviaWorld Literature Honors10-21-08 Online Book Review Brisingr	Fire; is the definition of the title of the novel in the ancient language.
He has written Eragon(the first book of the Inheritance cycle), Eldest(the second), and Brisingr(the third).
The novel had many interesting things; one of the things being the ancient language.
Also the dragons talk through their minds like many magicians can.
Eragon is trying to kill Galbatorix, but before he can get to him he needs to become a skilled magician and fighter.
Oromis is a secret rider hidden from Galbatorix, and Glaedr is his dragon.
Finally, this series has given me a novel that I have enjoyed every part of.
This book finally brings its characters and its plot back down to Earth, and although the novel still thrives off fantasy, and now possesses a sense of reality to it.
This book has given me new hope that the series can save itself with its finally which will came out in who knows when.
But, this is definitely the best book of the entire series thus far.
Why did Paolini have to make this a four book series.
Does Eragon really need to depart on a 150 page adventure to influence who would become the next dwarf king?
It's not like anyone over the age of three didn't already know who it was going to be.It was painful to watch Eragon spend three quarters of the book whining that he doesn't have a good weapon when we all know where he has to go to get a new one.
It was also painful to see Paolini twice find a lame excuse to split up Eragon and Saphira.
Between the terrible writing and the grammar and the fact that it was 800 pages of how long Paolini can babble about nothing and still keep an following.
The reason for the 4th book was this was for character development?
It's a shame that the king who might be a good character is only refered to throughout the book.
Maybe he can be the redeeming character in the 4th book.
Maybe Paolini should remember that because these marathon books he isn't very good at and is definately not learning any respect from me.
I can't believe I haven't added and reviewed this one yet!! I used to be huge (HUGE) fan of Eragon so I can't think of a reason why I didn't... Anyway, self punishment aside, the third book from the inheritacne cyrcle was okay. From what I can remember it had a nice plot, but the sword crafting was way too long so it did got boring there. But other than that, the story was nice and we had some character development and some nice battles. So, 3 out of 5.
Really, how much phenomenal cosmic power, gleaming musculature, purring voice, and natural musk that drives women wild are we supposed to take? And our Strong Female Leader can have her decision swayed by a eyebrow twitch from our Sexy Magically Powered Hero....I will probably never know how this book ends.
Wow. This one was really bad. As he's aged, Paolini;s writing has gotten worse. It's almost 800 pages of drivel. I feel like Paolini recently studied for the GRE and he's showing off the new words he learned. It was just really bad.
Eragon's slow transformation from simple yet inquisitive farmboy to the last free Dragon Rider is a joy to read, and I relished every insignificant detail.
Roran, who shocked me with his strength and fortitude in Eldest, continues on his path to becoming a brilliant military strategist and leader, all the while leaving his heart with his beloved Katrina.
ah, Murtagh, my favorite tragic character doesn't get much time in the story (though a much larger part than in Eldest), but each line, each syllable is deliberate; my heart aches when he realizes there may be hope after all to release him from the binding magic placed upon him by Galbatorix.
After waiting 100 years for book 3, I expected a lot more.
The meat of this book could have been condensed into about 100 pages.
Very little plot development occurred.
There was some character development, but not enough to warrant 750 pages.
I bet that if you read book 1, book 2, and 3 selected chapters of book 3, you could go straight to book 4 without any problems.
The books in this series seem to get more disappointing as they come out.
I'll keep reading because I've invested about 60 dollars in the series so far.
This book is terrible!
The first one was forgiven for it's rambling irrelevancies due to it's imaginative world and logical magic.
This was riddled with rambling text, inconsistencies, and fluff.
A wonderful example of it's dull droning takes place while Eragon is eating fruit with his teacher.
As the two are staring at each other for a good few paragraphs we get a lovely description of a scintillating hummingbird that floats out of the trees and licks up a bit of fruit juice.
Why would anyone wast any effort on such mind numbingly boring text?
Terrible read.
