https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15209.Radical_Chic_Mau_Mauing_the_Flak_Catchers
Wolfe's best work The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test, The Right Stuff, the early Esquire stories centers on character who he clearly admires.
This one, however, is a lot of fun to read, mostly because Wolfe knows the turf (New York's media world) so well.
As in Wolfe's best work, the scenes are dynamic, the prose ecstatic, and the narrative a locomotive.
Instead of picking on people his own size (Bernstein, Preminger), Wolfe saves his knockout punches for New York society wives--among the easiest targets in the history of world literature.
Still valid. Still extremely valid. Still so valid that you can see parallels of everything described in the book in regular life. I'm not a new your socialite, but the idea of radical chic applies to most every cause today. I do see group organizers on a regular basis, and they mau-mau as much as ever.
Tom Wolfe entered the political fray with the two essays in his 1970 book Radical Chic & Mau-Mauing the Flak Catchers.
At the time the Bernsteins hosted the party, on January 14, 1970, what Wolfe calls “radical chic” was definitely a part of some elements of the liberal culture.
I found a hardbound first edition of Radical Chic and Mau Mauing the Flak Catchers in a used-book barn in rural Pennsylvania over the holidays (unfortunately without the cartoonish book jacket). It gave me an opportunity to re-read these two magazine articles, a 130-page snapshot of late 1960s liberal society written in Wolfe's "new journalism" style ("radical" itself). This quick read is such a hoot for anyone who came of age in the '60s. For those younger, it offers a different point-of-view than your history books and an introduction to Wolfe's tongue-in-cheek non-fiction style.
An absolute character assasination of the would be hip, open minded, liberal left wing. Reinforces "the more things change......" This is as true of an indictment today as it was 37 years ago
The prejudices are clear - purportedly and expose about the hypocrisies of Upper-East-Side armchair liberalism, the author's voice clearly belongs to the crowd he criticizes. But nonetheless a hilarious, insightful piece of living history.
This is a series of vignettes of American culture in the 60's and 70's. I loved Mau-mauing the flak catchers. The flak catchers were government bureaucrats at the interface of public programs for the poor and the actual poor. One local entrepreneur ran a school to teach the biggest, strongest, most aggressive blacks to terrorize (or Mau-Mau) these people and thereby convince the flakies that they were the "natural leaders" of the oppressed community, and would therefore receive the most government money. The description of the giant Samoans, and their impact on all concerned, was hysterical.
"Radical Chic," the first long-form essay in this book tells the almost-too-good-to-be-true of Leonard Bernstein's soiree for his fellow New York glitterati and several key members of the Black Panther Party at his Park Avenue duplex. Wolfe's tone is about what you would expect. A hilarious, biting take on white guilt and the unbridled hypocrisy (temporarily replacing your long-time black servants with Latino servants so to appear more progressive, e.g.)resulting when revolution becomes fashionable. "Mau Mau-ing The Flack Catchers" is more dated and isn't as good of a read, but "Radical Chic" is completely worth it.
Had to read this for class too. I think his writing is flamboyent. In terms of content I really enjoyed it. I thought he was really writing about how everyone ignores the working classes. But for class we only discussed craft. Amazing how this style of writing only occurred in the sixties, it's kind of dated that way. If people were to write like this now, well some people do and when they do I find it cloying.
The father of New Journalism (RIP) spends his epochal fusillade on two targets. First, the aesthetic progressivism ('radical chic') of the WASP elite during the Civil Rights era. Second, the masochistic corruption of LBJ's bureaucrats - the boots on the ground in the War on Poverty. Wolfe's prose is electric and vertiginous. In one sentence he generalizes about national trends or the psychology of whole classes; in the next he plunges deep to focus on a breath mint or the muscles around a cringing G-Man's mouth.
I just didn't realize how relevant it would prove, even though I am the one always saying history is likely more circle than line."Radical Chic" famously narrates a party and/or meeting and/or benefit (the nature of the gathering actually becomes a point of contention in its controversial aftermath) held in the home of celebrated conductor Leonard Bernstein in 1970 wherein he hosted a number of Black Panthers alongside his more customary guest list of VIPs (Otto Preminger, Barbara Walters, Harry Belafonte—to cite a few names still in circulation).

What a great little book. I really enjoyed Wolfe's adroit skewering of slumming wealth liberals in "Radical Chic." "Mau Mauing the Flack Catchers" is a little more of a mixed bag. Some useful observations and clever turns of phrase, but ultimately less satisfying than "Radical Chic."
Great stuff... Wolfe is a little bit of everything: Gonzo and independent in terms of journalism, satirical and accusatory in his attacks, libertarian and counter-culture in principle.
Along the way, he explains the absolute necessity of servants (and the challenge posed of the social norm to not have colored servants) and a summer home, why the left wing politics of Jews never moderated as they became wealthy, how New York high society turns over approximately every 40 years with new leading families emerging, and the editorial position of the New York Times.Mau-Mauing the Flak Catchers transports us to San Francisco, the San Francisco of the Mr. Tibbs movies, beset by class and racial strife.
Remarkably this book reads like it was written in 2016 in the thrust of liberalism, social media, and political correctness.
Far ahead of its time and one could say Wolfe characterized the first seedlings of political correctness with that sapling planted in the late 60s.
Radical Chic exists in full force today with left wing celebrities jumping on any liberal bandwagon for relevance and attention: LGBQWRST, BLM, etc.
The gem was Wolfe (mind you this is 1970) as the ultimate job for someone with no skills and ability but a great way to make money is being a "Community Organizer".
And what's worse, that everybody knew that it--whatever you define "it" to be--didn't work and was basically just a racket, part of the race hustle put on rich liberal whites and on the government bureaucracy to get media face time and money.
But it's all institutionalized now.These comments are elicited mostly from my impression of the second essay in this book, "Mau-Mauing the Flak Catchers"--the flak catchers being government bureaucrats who have to deal with pseudo-angry blacks in face-to-face confrontations, and do so by giving them money for "jobs" and "training."The first essay, "Radical Chic," while interesting, wasn't so substantive in my eyes.
26 Nov. 2018 - I just noticed someone using the term "Mau-Mauing" and it brought back wonderful memories of the essay in this little book by Tom Wolfe that I read in the 70s, probably not too many years after it was published in 1970.What a great journalist Wolfe was.
Catching just the right nuances of memorable foolish traits of various people and groups.
The people Mau-Maued in this case are hapless SF welfare bureaucrats.
The Radical Chic fool was the great conductor and composer, but totally politically misguided, Leonard Bernstein, hosting a party for the Black Panthers in his NY penthouse (if I remember correctly after 45+ years).Both essays in this book are excellent, super satirical and highly recommended.
Both essays are good, but ‘These Radical Chic Evenings’ is a must.
The first is centered on a party thrown by Leonard Bernstein to raise funds for the Black Panthers and mildly chides the wealthy whites who have "right wing lifestyles" but "left wing outlooks." The second piece I found much more informative (even taking Wolfe's observations with a grain of salt).
I particularly found interesting how the Panthers, while highly respected in the cities, were just one of a slew of organizations, some of which boasted much higher memberships.
Both are light pieces about serious topics, but I feel both were overall respectful in their approaches.
It's also a short, blazing fast read.This is one of many books that I, as a student of nonfiction writing, have had on my shelf for many years, and I'll admit, at times I've pretended I'd read the whole thing, rather than just the first 20 pages.I finally picked it up, because I just couldn't read only Proust for the whole Summer, I don't yet have a library card (soon, soon), and I had a minor epiphany...
One of my students was going to a Gala-Grand-Opening Ball.
And so I wondered, is my student going to a "Radical Chic" event?
Wolfe's ability to find the relevant sociological theme inside the most miniscule of social exchanges left me in a stuper where the rise of my laughter would be ambivalently matched by my desire to just sit in silent awe of his sensitivity for observation.
He has more red stripes on his blackbelt of word karate than most anyone, Save Hunter S.
I would love to observe his writing process, as it reads like an capricious first go, but twirls in my mind like the polished edit of an abridged classic.
I think I'm addicted to his word pairings.
Wolfe’s narrative begins with a tone suggesting that these elite have less than altruistic motives in meeting with the BP and their ilk, and are doing more so because in an ever-increasing class and race-based system, identifying with the struggling masses humanizes the elite, and knocks them down a peg: they’re wealthy, but not inhuman or oblivious to struggle.
The essay takes a turn in tone when the New York Times first runs a rather tame story about the Bernstein/BP meeting (“it wasn’t a party!”), and later ran an editorial that harshly criticized the Bernstein’s and other liberals for aligning ideologically with the BP (even though the latter is only partially true).
It’s even worse with the black radicals in both “Radical Chic” and “Flak Catchers.” Wolfe’s combination of contempt, stabs at hip (not unlike the white liberals he lampoons), and seething jealousy for their charisma comes through loud and clear, but precious little else about the people he’s talking about does.Presented with two of the broadest targets someone looking to punch liberals could want – upper-crust types playing at radical, and a mutually-parasitic relationship between welfare recipients and social services bureaucrats – he doesn’t even really land that hard.

I mainly borrowed this combined volume for 'The Painted Word', his snark-filled take on the New York modern art scene.As a student of art history I adored it and time has proved Wolfe's argument about the insular nature of the art world. I enjoyed the other essays but they seemed a little more dated. I loved reacquainting myself with Wolfe's style.
I still hate Tom Wolfe.Radical Chic was stupid; Mau-Mauing the Flak Catchers was kind of interesting, but the only reason I finished it was because the whole book was approximately 130 pages long. Shut up, Tom Wolfe.
Okay, technically I read this in a packet in xerox reproduction form as part of an Introduction to Cultural Criticism class, my freshman year of college. I want to re-read this. Living in Oakland makes me want to re-read this, as I feel like I see this being re-enacted in the arts scene here.
I was on a big Wolfe kick, read about four or five of his books. I really enjoyed them
I don't remember too much of this book, other than reading it very quickly and enjoying it. Wolfe's shorter collections of essays, magazine pieces are all worth the time.
