https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41706.Raise_the_Titanic_
I saw not only what the Titanic looked like from its final resting place on the bottom of the sea, but also James Cameron's lovingly crafted vision of the Titanic when she sailed on her maiden voyage.
This said, Clive Cussler's original imagining of the raising of the Titanic was breathtaking.
Cussler gave us an amazing interconnected plot and the best crew in the world to undertake the salvaging of the most amazing ship in "Raise the Titanic!" a decade before she was actually located.
Could I go back in a time machine to 1975, I would rather had discovered her with Clive Cussler than James Cameron!
Written in 1976, "Raise the Titanic!" was the fourth book to feature Cussler's manly hero, Dirk Pitt.
It's not that Cussler doesn't like women, it's just that he doesn't have a lot of things for them to do, and he's not quite sure what to do with them when they're there.
I'm not sure why Cussler chose to set it in a near future, although I'm sure the fact that the technology for underwater retrieval needed for raising a ship like the Titanic probably wasn't around in '76, or it was still in its early stages.
But that was well before my time.Now, as much as I heap scorn on most of the later episodes in the 'Dirk Pitt' story--the unending stream of hackneyed dross which Cussler insists on shoveling into our faces--this is one book where his own lordly opinion of himself, is fully warranted.
Cussler and David ('First Blood') Morrell together, coined the modern action-thriller book genre.The crazy 'Titanic' plot here, introduced readers as well, to an action-figure with an excessively macho and unlikely name.
His mediocre books litter the floor of the thriller genre like the ships he has so long written about--while he laughs all the way to the bank.Ah Cussler...we hardly knew ye.
I decided to read a Dirk Pitt book after noticing that Sahara, a Matthew McConaughy movie I enjoyed a while back, was based on a literary character.
It was fairly well written, although I would not call it spellbinding.I did have a few specific gripes with the book (spoilers follow):- Although it is a Dirk Pitt adventure, Dirk's character only appears in one paragraph in the first 150 pages.
This left me feeling misled by the "Dirk Pitt Adventure" stamp on the cover of the book, although the first 150 pages were interesting, regardless.
I've always been a fan of the Dirk Pitt novels.
Now that I've read far more books in a lot of different genres, I'm more critical.
I'm re-reading through these novels, and up to this one have been a bit more disappointed than I am with #4.
The plotting is more intricate, and Pitt's character is more developed, showing a side that he hasn't in the first 3 books.
We know more now, of course, which dates some aspects of this book.
But a great story, and well worth reading for any Cussler fan.
He wants his hero, (note his, not the book's: the hero of this book is Gene Seagram, at least until Cussler pulls the rug out from under him) to be both a man of mystery and the guy everybody loves.
I point out that salvaging Titanic was Seagram's idea, and once again Pitt proves what a loser he is.The only conclusion I can come to is we're supposed to end the book beaming, saying "That Pitt—whatta guy!" as he scampers off into the mist, sunsets being few and far between in merry old England, and Cussler being fond of framing.The funny thing is, Cussler can write when he wants to.
I've been reading Cussler for the last couple of years, but this book, the one that sealed his name as a best seller is the earliest one I've read.It's very different than the ones I've read. Instead of a formulaic novel with an insane billionaire and an end of the world device, we get a deep cold war thriller. The search is on for a rare earth element that just happened to be on the Titanic. None of the moral equivalence that was so prevalent then.Very good. Highly recommended.
I choose this one first because it was about the Titanic (and I love Titanic stuff) after I finished this I read everything by him in a month, my father was very proud of me and we had the most wonderful discussions on every book.
C.Cussler's writing is fantastic as a stand ALONE author,I could not read his new co-written works, I put both down unfinished which is unheard off with a Cussler, I just could NOT get into them, to the point I re-read my old Cussler's when I need my Dirk Fix LOL.
Context is everything...and should probably be considered when re-reading early Cussler books.
He might have thought he was crafting a strong female character, must he was sexist through and through in attempting it.
Think 20 something male and a culture of Hugh Hefner in the 70s with an underwater James Bond who never fails to get the girl, even in the most remote environments and you'll get the picture.
As this was just his third novel, Cussler had yet to perfect his maddening habit of having his characters voice the things that most people would just think to themselves, but the seeds were here.
What started out for me as a slow and overly political book about spies and Russians and Americans and espionage turned into a very intense experience.My heart raced during their trials in bringing such a tragic and beautiful ship to the shores and Dirk Pitt was a quick witted smart alec who you don't know if you really like but you certaintly can't bring yourself to hate.I found myself most connected to the many aray of secondary characters who all varied and had the same in depth character development that I am unsure how Cussler kept up with so many tragic lives.
When I was younger I enjoyed reading the James Bond books and Clive Cussler's Dirk Pitt is sort of like James Bond in the Navy.
There is valuable material buried in a vault inside the Titanic that the United States wants and spends hundreds of millions to have a team of specialists led by NUMA man Dirk Pitt raise the Titanic.
Meanwhile, the Russians smell something is up and try to intervene.What makes this story thrilling to me wasn't only the action scenes but the detailed description of how they plan to raise the Titanic.
Those like me who enjoy the alluring history of the Titanic and thrillers at sea will enjoy this read.More Dirk Pitt!
I saw the movie "Raise the Titanic" way back when I was a little kid and had a fondness for the movie (which I suspect was a really, really bad movie given that it disappeared quickly and has never been seen since).
It's awful-terrible-horrible even by my standards for thrillers, which can be pretty good even when they're pretty bad.
It has paper-thin characters, cartoon bad guys, the completely random (yet boring) sex scene with the hero that makes no sense at all, repeated contrived near-death situations, and worst of all, the fun part -- raising the Titanic -- is finished pretty quickly.I miss my Tom Clancy.
Ogni tanto mi piace leggere libri di Cussler, sempre ricchi di colpi di scena, della serie “leggo l’ultima pagina e smetto” ma poi le pagine diventano due, tre.... e così via.Un bel romanzo di avventura e spionaggio che si legge tutto d’un fiato e che piacerà sicuramente anche ai cultori del Titanic. Le cose che non ho apprezzato riguardano i protagonisti, sono davvero troppi e mi hanno creato confusione nel ricordarne i nomi, di alcuni, invece, mi sarebbe piaciuta una descrizione più approfondita.
If you like mystery and action then this is the book fore you. It has a lot of mastery and action and many, many thrilling moments
All he seems to be good at is treating women like trash.I'd pay good money for a book where all the women he's bedded and discarded and insulted casually behind their backs come back to fight him.
However, it likely will never get mentioned because it's such a stupidly overpowered defense system.Between the poor treatment of his sole female character as essentially a sexy lamp for people to obsess over and the lack of actual realism in the science, this really just isn't that impressive as a book.
I especially don't recommend it if you're a nerd about the Titanic.
The book was published in 1976 but set in 1987.)The U.S. is working on a Star Wars style missile defense program but the only power source strong enough is a rare mineral that can only be found on a Russian owned island.
While it had a decent budget and the underwater visuals were well done, it turned Admiral Sandecker, a major SUPPORTING character into the MAIN character and Dirk Pitt is turned into a SUPPORTING CHARACTER!!!This is equivalent to making a Bond film and having M as the lead not Bond.
Also, in the book there is a major action set-piece aboard the Titanic after it has been raised.
My first read in the Dirk Pitt adventure series.
A brilliant twist on the story of the ill fated Titanic.
Then with a few more pages of reading the answer became apparent over and over again.
The prize for what is thought to be on the Titanic is the ultimate weapon.With a plot that twists and corckscrews through out i have to say this book really is spell binding.
Only draw back for me was some dull reading near the end and perhaps slighty too short with the Golden story that clive cussler has drawn from the edge of his imagination.
Good book, but certainly not my favorite in the Dirk Pitt canon. I think Iceberg was better than this one.But this one made Clive Cussler famous, and all those expensive cars on the back covers possible.So you should read it. And know that this series gets a whole lot better, the action more intense, and it all eventually looks like raising the Titanic was child's play. Yeah, saving the world ain't a walk in the park, folks!
I've had trouble reading the past few years or so, and so when a friend handed me this book I was a little skeptical. But it's engaging, easy to read and fun. The only parts tough to stomach are some sexism that places the author squarely as an artifact of his time, but otherwise an engaging read. Additionally, I love the subject of the Titanic so I'm sure that added to my enjoyment.
good book... I had seen the movie Raise the titanic a few years ago and I happened to find the book at a used book store.. glad I read the book it happens to have a totally different ending then the movie itself... and as usual the book goes into more detail
Actually i really enjoyed this book. Hooked me right from the beginning. Don't get me wrong it wasn't like it was a masterpiece. But very entertaining. Good fun read.
The good news is that this is a much better book than Sahara, which I read a few years ago.
It was not enough for me to decide to stop listening (audiobook), but it reminded me too much of Fleming's Bond in Casino Royale.Come on Cussler, there a good 20 years between Fleming's Bond and your Pitt.
I have been married, raised a daughter, and can say there are differences between women and men, but a good author can avoid resorting to stereotypes.So after that rant there is good stuff here, especially when compared to Sahara.
Very competent, and not emotional, and that works for the tale here.One spoiler-they do raise the ship.
I should have probably done my research before trying to read this.You see, i am doing reasearch for my own novel based on the decks of the doomed liner.
This book came up in my googling, so i bought it.
Five years before the Titanic's wreck was discovered.There was also a lot of creative liscence taken with this story (or i hope, otherwise Cussler should have really done his reasearch more furrowly) , so that makes it practically useless for research purposes.However what really killed this story for me was the dialogue.
They just killed it for me.
Decent story. Valuable minerals hidden on the Titanic and the Russians compete with our hero Dirk Pitt to get them..Written in 1976 so the ship was still a mystery. and the salvage attempt is exciting. Good story and great fun but still troubled by authors writing of women - all the secretaries are large breasted and even one incidental waitress flashes her panties for no reason at all. Doubtless writing was different then but find it grating.
This is my favorite book of all time. Years later, I gave a copy to my daughter and she loved it. She began reading the books from the beginning. In fact, my whole family from my 97 year-old father, to my brothers and sisters, nieces and nephews, anticipate each book's arrival. Can't recommend Cussler enough!
Good ideas how to rise a realy old wreck from down under.
Great storyI enjoyed how this book intertwined the past and present and provided overlapping storylines that created a detailed story. Definitely a great Dirk Pitt Tale.
One of my favorites in the series
Great fun and exciting adventure, as well as a murder mystery.
Interesting plot, good light reading but a bit unreal.
