https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/856440.Prospero_s_Cell
Reading this book the second time around just confirms what a brilliant writer Durrell is. My love affair with his works began in my twenties with the four novels comprising what would later become The Alexandria Quartet, and his subsequent novels mainly written in France including the magnificent book The Avignon Quintet: Monsieur, Livia, Constance, Sebastian and Quinx. I cannot fault anything about him. His travel books, humour, poetry and letters especially those written to and received from Henry Miller, who would indirectly be responsible for ensuring that Lawrence Durrell would enter the literary arena.Exquisite literature - my!
Lawrence Durrell could have been born in a time and place when he chose or was forced to have a static existence.
Durrell's time on the Isle of Corfu (Corcyra) is documented in this short and bitter sweet travelogue.
Durrell's charm is that you don't resent his peripatetic writers lifestyle or the seeming ease with which he blends into communities, not only on Corfu but in Cairo, Alexandria, Paris, Languedo, Cordoba, Rhodes and all the other places he had the good fortune to call his home.
His book on Corfu -- Prospero's Cell -- has many of the same characteristics that I loved in the Quartet: the significant encounters with a group of eccentric characters, leading to significant discussions and multiple epiphanies based on their knowledge of the local area.
At one point, one of Durrell's characters, the sage Count D., makes fun of the British author to his face.
When asked what kind of picture his book will present of Corfu, the Count answers:“It is difficult to say....
The inexact details, the "bright splinters of landscape," are really good in and of themselves.
Тегаво ми беше и я влачих бая време.Лари е меланхоличен, понякога надменен до неприятен, безразличен или индиферентен.
Теодор и Спиро са обезличени, принизени до особняци, имащи само практическа стойност и не ми беше приятно да чета за тях в такава светлина.
Прекрасните описания на природата и някои интересни случки не успяват да спасят ситуацията.Изобщо, тази книга губи по всички параграфи от жизнената, пълна с обожание към живота във всичките му възможни форми и Корфу трилогия на Джери.Иначе, препоръчвам "Александрийски квартет" - там той е вече огромен писател!
But once you strike out from the flat and desolate Calabrian mainland toward the sea, you aware of a change in the heart of things: aware of the horizon beginning to stain at the rim of the world, aware of  islands  coming out of the darkness to meet you.In the morning you wake to the taste of snow on the air, and climbing the companion ladder, suddenly enter the penumbra of shadow cast by the Albanian mountains--each wearing its cracked crown of snow--desolate and repudiating stone.A peninisula nipped off while red hot and and allowed to cool into an antarctica of lava.
Somehow, by some incredible art of persuasion, he convinced his mother to pack up their entire family—four children, of whom he was the eldest—and move them all to the Greek island of Corfu.They lived a crazy island life with eccentric locals and writers dropping by—people like Freya Stark and Patrick Leigh Fermor—and during all those years Durrell plugged away in a little stone house on the side of a mountain and taught himself to write.
Prospero’s Cell is the story of those years.When you’ve finished this, read Reflections on a Marine Venus and Bitter Lemons, Durrell’s other island books.
I enjoyed this book as a poetic and adult complement to Gerald Durrell's childhood memories of Corfu. Many of the same characters reappear and are seen thru Lawrence's adult eyes. The epilogue is sad; the island seems to have been a bombing range during WWII.
This is probably my favorite book to read and read again when the weather gets cold. Inspires travel lust and urges to quit one's job. A collection of Durrell's memories, journal entries and highly romanticized impressions from his travels in Corfu, Greece, before WWII.
Остров Корфу през 1937/8 г., предаден през очите на писателя Лорънс Дърел (брат на Джералд Даръл).
Море, усещането, че се потапяш в него, кичести маслинови дръвчета, сладко грозде и всичко сякаш е намазано със зехтин.
Прекрасно е предаден духът на острова, а правдивото описание на народопсихологията на гърците на места доста ме забавляваше.
Към един свят, който е разрушен след Втората световна война, към едно спокойствие и красота, които не е ясно дали авторът би намерил отново.
За мен беше истинско удоволствие, дано е така и за следващия, който ще посегне към нея.
His flowery prose caught the imagination of a post-war generation, who relished his descriptions of "gigantic plane trees, the bluff ilex-grown fortresses...a conspiracy of light, air blue sea and cypresses."He conjures up a world where he and his beautiful wife move to Corcyra (Corfu), buy a boat and lead a magical life.
In Gerald's version of events, Lawrence lived with his mother.
Finally, Sappho Durrell, Lawrence's daughter with his second wife (he had 4 wives in all) accused her father of sexual abuse.
The abuse happened on the island, when Sappho was a teenager, living with her father after her mother had left him.
Durrell's prose is pure magic. Vivid yet subtle, it flirts with the Baroque without ever breaking the spell it casts on the reader. This is seductive travel writing at its finest.Particularly well done is the balance between descriptive prose and historical detail in order to bring the island to life out of a colourful past and into an uncertain present. The final note is a bitter sweet one, layered with nostalgia...
"What more does a man want than an olive tree, a native island and a woman from his own place?"
An other great book on the Greek Islands by Durrell. The ending moved me to tears.
Typically Durrell, lush to the point of over-ripeness, but very interesting.
The hill runs clear up into the sky behind it, so that the cypresses and olives overhang this room in which I sit and write".Lawrence wanted to live the bohemian life and indeed it did sound like a salubrious existence spending time engaging in 'pirofani' (night fishing), swimming naked in the bathing pool near the shrine of St. Arsenius, writing, drinking good wine and spending time with other intellectuals such as Theodore a doctor and erudite naturalist who features largely in Gerald's book "My family and other Animals".
Having visited the island I recognised one of the locations he described but if I was recommending a book to take to Corfu it would be Gerald's "My family and other animals".
From the times of Ancient Greece, when Odysseus allegedly fled to the island to the late 1930s when this book was written, with the looming world war bringing menace to paradise, Durrell skips back and forth in time, telling various stories which eventually make up a rich picture.
Reading the book while on the island itself was an absolute joy, as so much of the geography, architecture and indeed ways of life of the island's people remains as it was when Durrell was writing.
durrell knows the sea, more than any other writer i've read, and this books feels like something found washed up on a beach.
reading this years after devouring gerald durrell's corfu trilogy, which explores the same island and many of the same characters, it came as a stuttery shock to find that so many characters died.
this feels like more than it is, perhaps for those moments where durrell lets the island take over - allowing the starry salty burning-gold image of corfu into your mind.
Feeling very ambiguous about this slim part-memoir part-travelogue by Lawrence Durrell. Clarity, I think, is the issue here. Though the author relishes in attractive poetic form, whether describing people or places, the weather even, I felt as stumbling on air. Not a nice feeling. I believe I've come across books like this one before, very sophisticated stuff, often beautiful, usually confusing. A better reader will enjoy this much more than I did.
Page 1 you read: 'Other countries may offer you discoveries in manners or lore or landscape; Greece offers you something harder - the discovery of yourself.'This book offers little more than some anekdotes on manners, lore and landscape. Some nice chapters, but not the book on Greece I thought it could be.
Durrell's part memoir, part history, part cultural narrative offers a poignant insight into the life of Corcyra between the wars. Enjoyable and charming, of a very different time. A great gift for anyone travelling to the Greek Islands.
I think I enjoyed this book because it contains echoes of Gerald Durrell, in the same way that I like Beethoven's Eroica Symphony because it reminds me of his Pastoral Symphony. In both cases, though, what I really want is the one of which I'm being reminded.
i love his descriptive prose but this one is a little dry. still i long to be there with the group sipping wine and enjoying the conversation and roar of the sea. the rustic beauty summoned by Durrell is so enchanting.
Explicit, romantic and absolutely Greece. Its a painting in words!One can read it and read again.
I've just finished reading Lawrence Durrell's Prospero's Cell, a poetic description of places and people, based on Durrell's journal that he kept in 1937 while he lived on Corfu.
in the book) lived for a time in a "white house" at the northern-most tip of the island, facing Albania across the strait.
At any rate, for a young poet, one still not much more than a teenager, untroubled by a need or desire for money, an isolated house on beautiful Corfu with a loving wife was heaven.
Durrell's book tells us far more than we need to know about Corfu's history and geology and crops and festivals and demographics.
Трябва да кажа, че цялото това пасторално очарование на въпросните селски общества е доста преувеличено.""Техният национален характер /на гърците/ почива върху идеята за бедния и онеправдан малък човек, който гледа да надхитри света с едното си лукавство.
За местните селяни банята е нещо, което понякога си принуден да вземаш по лекарско предписание или като профилактична мярка, но не и нуждите на личната хигиена - подобна идея още не е стигнала до селските умове."И май с това се изчерпва всичко интересно в този пътепис.
Почти през цялото време имах усещане за отегчението с което авторът е писал този пътепис, някак си като по задължение.
As a lover of Corfu and having just dropped anchor off The White House where Durrell lived st the time of writing this book, I was totally prepared to love it BUT I found the changes from diary to comment to history and back again tiresome. Also I found Durrell’s wanderings from daily life (interesting even if mundane) to imagined heights of intellectualism rather tiresome. Having said that I did enjoy a number of the anecdotes and the ongoing conversations in the company of the Count. Perhaps I should have read it in situ.
I am a biased reviewer because I love Gerald Durrell’s Corfu trilogy (My Family and Other Animals, etc) and I just visited Corfu and loved it, tacky tourism and all. This book is a beautiful tribute to a lovely place.
Dated and too prone to his usual excesses. One or two moments but my least favourite of his Greek books.
Pretty traveloguesque writings from Larry. Beautiful prose and a pleasant read, but not terribly unified. Would mildly recommend.
The language and descriptions are so striking that I go back and read them over again like a poem.
