https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22374.Batman
The script includes footnotes because Mr. Morrison wants to share each and every pop culture allusion and Easter egg that he’s cleverly included for us.The script actually came in handy, because I could actually read what The Joker was trying to say, but shuffling back and forth between the comic and an addendum quickly wore thin.A plot summary: The inmates at Arkham take control of the asylum because it’s Tuesday and demand that Batman pay them a visit, because they love him so so much and want to cuddle and spoon and eat Toll House cookie dough real fast, which is a good thing because this isn’t take-control-of-the-situation-with-a-few-well-placed-bat-flash-gernades-and-a-couple-of-kidney-punches-and-or-batarang-or-two-to-the-dome Batman, this is Emo-boy-Mr.-Feels-Kyle-Raynor-is-my-psychic-twin Batman, so let’s brood, shall we?Therapy seems to work wonders for a few of the rogues – yes, Two-Face flip a coin pick a card to see if you can scratch your ass.The rest:Mad Hatter:Stop spouting drivel and take a tranquilizer!Clayface:He’s seen better days.
The painted artwork was appalling, the story-line was incoherent, the dialogue was barely legible, and, most importantly, the portrayal of Batman was all wrong.
This felt like a second-rate haunted-house horror that Batman was wedged into, and poorly at that.
Batman's encounters with various villains felt thrown-in, in a cheap name-dropping way, his decision-making was baffling to non-existent, and the story's resolution -- hanging on a coin-flip -- was absurd.
The back-story to Gotham's Arkham Asylum was done much better in the Batman: Arkham Asylum video-game.
I only did decide to read this after seeing it on multiple best graphic-novel lists.
How can so many lists be so wrong?
Sorry, guys. Didn't like it.I have a headache and my eyes hurt.Not joking here.One of my eyes is actually throbbing.Yes, only one.I'm going to take some Tylenol...
Goodreads kinda hates this book!
And that Batman acts completely out-of-character -- he doesn't save anyone, he lets people kill each other, he has no discernible plan, he admits he's just scared and then leaves at the end -- yeah, those folks are right too.But dammit.
Cuz good lord, some days your whole world feels like an ominous Tarot reading, no matter how far you get from that little kid who was scared of his own comics twenty years ago.
I'm glad there's a book out there where my buddy Batman has a bad day too.Loves you, booky-book.
I'm not quite sure how I feel about Batman: Arkham Asylum. The story isn't to my liking (although the Joker grabbing Batman's arse is something one doesn't see often).Also, I found the art style too weird.
This is not your traditional Batman tale. Some people won't like it. In fact, Batman seems like a normal man when confronted by the horrors within and acts in very non Batman ways. There's a two part story here where we switch back and forth to the founder of Arkham and why he turned his mansion into a facility for the mad and Batman trying to navigate his way through the madness of Arkham.  Batman action is minimal. This is much more of an emotional journey. There is distinctive lettering for
In fact, Batman seems like a normal man when confronted by the horrors within and acts in very non Batman ways.
There's a two part story here where we switch back and forth to the founder of Arkham and why he turned his mansion into a facility for the mad and Batman trying to navigate his way through the madness of Arkham.
Think of this as a true nightmare tale for Batman.
Sometimes the symbolism is a bit much and gets in the way of the tale.
This graphic novel influenced a video game of a similar title but that one is more action based.
It is as though he started a mission, then thought better of it and decided to take a walk through Gotham Park instead.In the end, this book is somewhat reminiscent of the film "Batman Returns"-- truly bizarre, with a completely different "Batman" than whatever iconic version lodges in the minds of his fans (the early comics, the campy 60s TV show, the 90s animated series, etc.).
However, while Batman Returns is original enough to watch for mere discussions' sake, and at least offers a story of Batman fighting to protect Gotham citizens, this unfortunate graphic novel is worth reading only for the most completive Batman fan.This book is, in short, postmodern garbage.
Dave McKean’s artwork matches Morrison’s bizarre story well but it still looks a bit too avant-garde for a comic.
I liked Morrison’s idea to have the Arkham doctors try weaning Harvey Dent off of the two-sided coin and onto the I Ching.
Morrison’s comics usually have more substance to them but Arkham Asylum is all surface texture with few great ideas.
Arkham Asylum is a visually interesting book but it looks and reads like an art student’s project, ie.
If you want to read Morrison’s best Batman books, start with Batman and Son and go forwards from there.
Arkham Asylum is the best graphic novel I've ever read for two reasons: writing, and art.This isn't your average WHACK!
I found myself saying, "yes, that's what that thought or feeling must LOOK like."No other graphic novel has ever matched art and writing so perfectly.
If you read one graphic novel in your life, and if you want to see that even the most pop-star of comic heroes can be gritty and real, read this book.
پیوسته طنز میگه و خود شیوه ی حرکتش (تاب خوردن هاش) این سرزنده بودن رو تقویت میکنن.سوپرمن، خصوصیت اصلیش درستکاری و عدالت جو بودنشه.کاپیتان آمریکا، خصوصیت اصلیش افتخار و وفاداری و سرباز بودنشه، که از اسم و لباسش هم میباره این خصوصیت.شخصیت بتمن، با هراس آمیخته شده.
این خصوصیت اخلاقی کاملاً با لباس سیاه، با خفاش و نهایتاً با شب گرد بودنش خیلی متناسبه.طراح های شخصیت بتمن (باب کین و بیل فینگر) برای طراحی لباسش از یه فیلم ترسناک الهام گرفتن که در اون، یه انسان خفاش نمای قاتل، این ور و اون ور میرفته و مردم رو می ترسونده و می کشته.
Absolutely not just a graphic-novel.This is a dream-like lynchian descent into madness.Best Dark Knight story ever with "The Dark Knight returns" and "The Killing Joke".A masterwork.
Let's face it, the guy was a nut, he might as well have been singing "Hello Dolly!"good god, morrison.
"Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord" makes a helluva lot more sense in a book centered around the themes of death and rebirth than "O say can you see..."and then he just writes it off because "the guy was a nut" even though the other major theme of the book is that insanity is sanity and vise versa.ugh.mckean did a wonderful job with the art, though.
I love comic books, but this one didn't do it for me.I didn't like the art style, even if it was quite beautiful.
For me, this style of comic didn't do Batman justice.
I think this art style could work well with other characters, but not one where I want to pay attention to detail.
Why does a comic book need footnotes?
I don't understand how this comic book was supposed to hit audiences.The idea of having the inmates takes over Arkham Asylum seems awesome and this could make for the best story, but this art style didn't do it justice.
While the comic may be accused by some as symptomatic of an attempt at at best, pop psychology, I think the authors have done a marvellous job in portraying the differences by which Batman and The Joker are negotiating what are in essence, very similar psychological conflicts.This is done on a backdrop literally seething with a brooding, menacing perceived threat of total disintegration, which was in fact embraced by another main character, that of Arkham himself.
These fears make him human; while also confirming that his mask etc in fact serve as a defensive character armour which keeps the underlying guilt, abandonment rage and fantasies of revenge both at bay.
I read many favorite comments about this story and the artwork, but I'm not so satisfied.In this adventure, Batman is involved to a psychological game and forced, by his archenemy Joker, to face his inner demons, his dark side.
Another part, tells about Amadeus Arkham, the founder of the asylum, that intersects with the main story.And even this analysis of Batman is weak, I would have expected more.There are many reference to symbolism and magic, quotes from Alice in Wonderland and a gloomy atmosphere that remind some horror writers, like H.
I did not like this mess of a book. There isn't much of a plot. The artwork and lettering is undecipherable. I understand that Morrison is trying to do a dark ethereal fantasy symbolic of Batman's psychosis, while giving Arkham Asylum a "creepy crawly" history, but that's not really enough for an entire book.
Ima svega, i predivnog, nadrealnog Mekinovog crteža, i zanimljive priče, i Džokera u štiklama, i ezoterijskog simbolizma, i Alise u zemlji čuda. Volem <3
I've read this twice now and i still can't decide whether i like this or not, whether it just leaves me confused or making me feel like an old lady trying to fucking read what the fuck Joker is saying!?The art is mayhem it sets the story up perfectly and it is beautifully if not hauntingly done so.
The only way you're gonna know whether you like this or not is to read it, it's definitely a marmite read, you're either gonna love it or hate it, or just be left feeling bewildered.
I don't know, too many questions, read it, don't read it, maybe try peanut butter and leave marmite.
3.5 stars. Superb art by Dave McKean and a mostly good story by Grant Morrison (with flashes of brilliance) highlight this quality Batman graphic novel. The reason it doesn't rate higher overall is because there were a few "huh?" moments where the story was a bit hard to follow and I think the creators at times sacrificed story at the altar of atmosphere.
Worst Batman comic by far.I didn't like it's highly praised painted art style and I hated how Batman is portrayed.Bruce Wayne, man who is mentally and physically trained to perfection, man who's contingency plans have contingency plans just walks in and surrenders to Joker and becomes poor victim in this wannabe horror.
If this isn't dangerous enough, they're threatening to murder everyone in the facility unless Batman agrees to a face to face meeting.I understand that a lot of people can appreciate the style in which both Morrison and McKean approached Batman, however this just wasn't for me.
I feel like I'm almost speaking a form of blasphemy here by not loving this book.That being said, I certainly do not want to take anything away from Dave McKean - the guy is crazy talented.
I'll give McKean credit for trying something outside-the-box but I feel like the whole presentation was lost on me.
I like dark, sinister and menacing stuff. Arkham Asylum threw out the rule book and invented a new one. A darker one. A cruel one. And it tests the boundaries of your comfort zone.I adore every twisted page. They have a rich and dark quality. My mind is full of dark thoughts. I only think in black.
I know that a lot of the modern Batman mythos has a lot to do with the whole evil outside vs.
darkness within motif, but this is ridiculous.
What a pretentious bunch of nonsense.
And I've never gotten the attraction to Dave McKean's art.
I can never tell what's going on, everything's too dark and splotchy and covered in symbols.
This is a Batman comic book.
Let's not overthink it.
When did we let the British take over our comic books anyway?
need to stop trying to turn our national comic book industry into their own personal Kafka-at-Hot Topic wet dream.
Once again Grant Morrison proves my theory that he just shouldn't write batman comics.
Seriously, Batman just stands there and let's Joker and all them do stuff to him.
Yep that's totally the Batman I know, not.
Oh and Batman is crazy, thanks for telling me Mr. Morrison; I know how much you like to bring it up since every Batman comic you write about you have to mention it.
I could barley read what joker was saying sometimes.
If you're looking for a good Batman comic I would skip this one.
No me ha gustado nada. Tan pronto como pasaba páginas olvidaba lo que acababa de leer. Cuando me he cansado lo he dejado. El dibujo es muy expresivo, sugerente y experimental, pero agota y a veces no distingues qué estás mirando.
I realize what the author and artist were going for, and I appreciate the foreward and even the screenplay with commentary.
However, even gaining insight into their thought processes didn't make me like this book any more.I am an artist, and I love art.
It was toxic with the statements of the creators, and it killed the overall book.Some of my individual issues:*The lettering was nearly incomprehensible, especially the Joker's words and thoughts.
If I can't follow it, it has failed to convey meaning to me.I know that this is a very highly praised and critically-acclaimed book, but I'm not a fan of it.
Batman in particular is way more psychologically unstable than normal (and he's not exactly a paragon of sanity, let's be honest).
The basic plot itself (the Batman villains take over Arkham and invite Batman inside) is really a good idea.
Obviously, since it was used as the basic plot for the game.
In particular, the game has much better pacing, actual goals for Batman to accomplish, and a distinct and chillingly good plot from the Joker.
I like McKean's work, a lot, and I think he's frequently brilliant, but it's very much an acquired taste.
Unfortunately one of GMs more out there works. Not a fan of the art either.
Cupo e tetro al punto giusto. Avrei forse messo in risalto meglio la 'pazzia' del Joker. Disegni spaventosi!!
What a load of pretentious fooleywang. A bunch of pseudo-existential quotes and a jarring storyline do not make a great graphic novel. I love the artwork of Dave McKean but this was just nasty and a sore to the eyes. Batman is so out of character this should not even be in the canon.Just horrid.
