https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17899948-rebecca
Daphne du Maurier leased a place called Menabilly which became the basis for the fictional Manderley.
Laurence Olivier as Maximilian de WinterAfter a whirlwind romance, the dashing de Winter sweeps the impressionable young lady off her feet, pries her loose from the services of Mrs. Van Hoppers, and marries her.
How dark and sombre they were in that white skull’s face of hers, how malevolent, how full of hatred.”You will feel yourself wanting to cheer as our heroine begins to gain confidence and as she begins to grow into her role we see Mrs. Danvers start to diminish and with her the haunting presence of Rebecca.
THE delicious, curl up next to the fire under a blanket with tea book.
THE windowsill on a rainy day with your pet book.
THE stay up all night book.
A chill goes down your spine (but in a good way!) while reading it.
It is a masterpiece of gothic literature, the inheritor of the tradition of novels like Wuthering Heights and Jane Eyre.
I'd call it the 20th Century Jane Eyre, actually, with a modernist twist.
Whether you're generally a fan of mystery, romance or thrillers, this book is quite simply a delicious read.
When the book opens, Not Cory is reflecting on her life, and the remaining pages focus on the events she’s reliving.
(hide spoiler)] So I’m sorry to all the Maxim shippers, but I can find nothing redeeming or romantic about an older man who so casually mistreats his innocent young wife.
So it’s understandable that after a few short weeks at Manderley, Not Cory begins to further withdraw from her surroundings, turn more introspective, begin to question everything about her marriage and the man she’s attached herself to.
(view spoiler)[ Maxim reveals that his first wife didn’t drown.
(view spoiler)[ He tells Not Cory he loves her.
The second Mrs. de Winter's descriptions may be nuanced and leisurely, occasionally painful in their innocence, but every encounter, each exploration, brings us closer to the heart of the mystery of Rebecca and Manderley too.Beside the exemplary construction of the narrative, the other things I liked most about the book were the detailed descriptions of Manderley, the lingering power of the first two chapters (the only two set in the present), and the intriguingly ambiguous fate of the narrator of the novel, the second Mrs. de Winter, the woman with no name.One of the guilty pleasures of a good gothic is the description of a magnificent old house, so precise and rich in detail that you can fantasize about how delightful--or how scary--living in such a mansion might be.
Blind trust was all I needed, from trusted friends, but it took me forever to make this book a priority.
It's not a hype either!!"Rebecca" is the most enduring classic of Love and Evil I've ever read.
"No wildflowers came into the house at Manderley.
He had special cultivated flowers, grown for the house alone, in the walled garden.
In the house they became mysterious and subtle".
and to many other Goodreads friends who read this before me.
REBECCA is a novel - once read -- we can never forget!!!!
but I must come back and start reading 'other' REBECCA reviews!!!
This has to be one of the best and most complete books I have ever read.
Each element - plot, characters, twists, suspense, climax - all of it, perfect!
If I had one criticism, it might be a slightly slow start, but with the awesome payoff, that is hardly worth mentioning.The plot - I have to be honest, I judged a book by its cover and title.
Also, this book as two characters that are the essence of love to hate - one because they are a total a-hole, and the other because they are creepy as hell!
Don't be like me and think "meh, a classic named Rebecca - probably boring" It is not!
5 stars to Daphne du Maurier's Rebecca. I loved it and probably consider it 4 1/2 stars just because of a few small items (but I can't not give it 5 here!). Story The second wife of a wealthy widower (you'll never know her name) tries to figure out how to fit into her new family when it seems there's now way how. With many twists and turns, both suspense and a bit of romance, this story captures your attention immediately and takes you on a path of great intrigue. Just when you think you've figu
The second wife of a wealthy widower (you'll never know her name) tries to figure out how to fit into her new family when it seems there's now way how.
With many twists and turns, both suspense and a bit of romance, this story captures your attention immediately and takes you on a path of great intrigue.
Just when you think you've figured it out, du Maurier confounds and surprises you -- in a good way.
I would love to be a fly on the wall in Manderley (name of the estate where the book takes place) to catch all the hidden expressions and conversations.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
Happy for the first time since the death of his beloved wife, Rebecca, he is not ready to part ways with the vibrant young lady.
The second Mrs. de Winter feels like an imposter in her new home, constantly reminded of the beautiful wife that preceded her and seemed to be beloved by all.
Rebecca had secrets and the more the second Mrs. de Winter uncovers, the more she begins to question what exactly she got herself into and what kind of danger lurks at Manderley.
Then I could pick up Rebecca and experience this breathtaking novel once more as if for the first time.
Truth be told, this wasn’t actually my first time reading this quintessential piece of classic gothic literature.
I felt as if I were sitting right there with Mrs. de Winter as she approached Manderley for the first time.
Mrs. Danvers worshiped Rebecca during her life and continues to do so even after her death.
well, without getting into spoiler territory, she has an amazing presence in this novel for someone who's dead before it even starts.I have to say that the second Mrs. de Winter's paralyzing lack of self-confidence and her gaucherie, even though integral to the plot, was really irksome to me.
. .and you must never let me run out of my particular brand of toothpaste."(Prick!) (Women certainly don't want male chauvinist swine as employers, but we accept them as husbands and lovers, because mostly that's all there is, so we have to make do.) The spirit of Rebecca herself -- the first Mrs. de Winter -- pervades the novel like a gathering storm, a painful presence for the young woman Maxim marries after Rebecca's death.
Owned by the rich widower Maxim De Winter, it is a place known across England, especially thanks to his first wife Rebecca, now deceased.
For this reason, when Maxim de Winter decides to get married again, his new partner constantly suffers for the comparison with Rebecca.
Un luogo sulla bocca di tutti.Ma Rebecca non c'è più, scomparsa in un naufragio, e questo tragico trapasso ha contribuito ad innalzarla a figura celestiale, inarrivabile agli occhi della gente che ha frequentato Manderley.
Per questo, quando Maxim de Winter decide di sposarsi nuovamente, la sua nuova compagna subisce continuamente il confronto con Rebecca.
Anyway, for all of y'all out there in a similar situation where you're Netflixin' and chillin' or playing video games or enjoying the summer outside somewhere, and you come back to books like "Damn, I don't feel like reading and nothing even sounds good because right now I have some very specific needs of what I want a book to do to me and nothing is going to fit into these ridiculous categories I've outlined for myself plus I don't even really have time right now and the new season of Game of Thrones is starting soon..."If you're feeling any of that, go grab a copy of Rebecca somewhere and relax.
She sets out to reinforce Rebecca's memory to the staff, to Max and to the new Mrs de Winter through cold and manipulative ways.
She stood there,smiling at me."Through these cruel interactions with Mrs Danvers, the loneliness, the self-doubt and Max's cold-hearted behaviour, our narrator faces something that no one in love wants to face or admit to; "We’re not meant for happiness, you and I."This book was so brilliantly fleshed out.
603. Rebecca, Daphne du Maurier (1907 - 1989)Rebecca is a thriller novel by English author Dame Daphne du Maurier. Publication date: 1938.ربه کا ؛ ربکا - دافنه دو موریه (جامی / جاویدان) ادبیات فرانسه؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سال 1974 میلادیعنوان: «ربه کا»؛ اثر: دافنه دو موریه؛ مترجم: فریدون کار؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، جاویدان، 1369، در 454 ص، شابک: 9645529093؛ چاپ پانزدهم 1378، موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان انگلیسی، قرن 20 ممترجمین دیگر: شکیباپور؛ تهران، ارسطو؛ در 512 ص؛ حسن شهباز، تهران، کتابهای جیبی، 134
زن جذاب و درگذشته ی همسرش، گویا زنی هوسباز بوده، و شبی که منتظر معشوقه اش بوده، ناگهان با شوهر خود روبرو میشود، و پس از دادن خبری دروغین به همسر خویش، که آبستن است، به دست شوهر خویش کشته میشود.
عندما تتحول الرواية الى هاجس يؤرقك من ان لاخر..عند الوفاة المفاجئة لاحدى معارفك...عند زيارتك لمزرعة وحبذا لو كانت بانجلترا..عندما ترى زوجين من هذا النمط اللامع السعيد الذي يثير حسد الجميع..إنها ريبيكا.
.الرواية الوحيدة التي تمنيت لو كنت كتبتها انا!!ا هناك جزء منها كتبته دافني دي مورييه بالإسكندرية اثناء اقامتها بهاريبيكا عن القهر في اعتى صوره⚫قهر النساء للرجال..قهر النساء للنساء...قهر الإنسان لنفسه عندما تصل قناعتك انك بانتحارك ستسدي خدمة لكل من حولك...فتخلصهم من ضعفك و غباءك و قلة حيلتكLast night I dreamt of MANDERLEY.
لا تظهر مطلقا!!تبدأ الرواية بعد موتها..و لكنها الغائب الحاضر بامتياز..تنتمي لهذا النمط الذي يلوي الأعناق أينما حلت.
Rebecca is just a great story that never gets old. Great characters, great writing... it remains one of my all time favourites and I seem to appreciate something new every time I return to it.
And who apparently signed "Jan Ricardo" with a dramatic great R - a portentous curlicue that is emulated in the book,"The name Rebecca stood out black and strong, the tall and sloping R dwarfing the other letters." And elsewhere,  "That bold, slanting hand, stabbing the white paper, the symbol of herself, so certain, so assured."Jan Ricardo later threw herself under a train, and it is said that the author was haunted by the suspicion that her husband remained attracted to Ricardo.Daphne Du Maurier herself was notoriously shy and withdrawn.
He made a few slightly sarcastic remarks which went right over Mrs. Van Hopper’s head, but our young heroine picked up on them, and Mr de Winter seemed to notice.The next day, our heroine (we never learn her name) reflected on Mrs Van Hopper:“.
The book blurb tells you she marries and moves to Manderley, so that’s no spoiler.It’s beyond me how any young woman could hope to make a place for herself surrounded by staff in a manor house on a large country estate, let alone measure up in any way to the glorious previous Mrs de Winter.
"I dreamt I went to Manderley again."Rebecca is the story of a young woman (her first name is never given) who marries wealthy Maxim de Winter, mostly to escape her life as a companion to a rich American woman.
Over the course of the story, the narrator begins to inquire into Rebecca's past with her husband in an attempt to discover how she was able to captivate everyone she knew.
As the story progresses, Mrs. de Winter discovers that not everyone at Manderley has been completely honest with her, and Rebecca herself is at the heart of all these secrets.I really liked this book.
A talented writer can reinterpret and reinvent an old story, add new layers to it, and Daphne du Maurier does just that.
The book is beautifully written, it is haunting, it is suspenseful.I also think it takes a gifted writer to make readers get attached to a character as insecure, jealous, and timid as the second Mrs. de Winter.
Rebecca is simply a great book all around, deservedly a masterpiece of English literature and from now on - a new favorite love story of mine, to be treasured and kept near Gone With the Wind, Jane Eyre, Pride and Prejudice, Wuthering Heights, and The Thorn Birds.
“Last night I dreamt I went to Manderley again.”- the opening lines of Daphne du Maurier's RebeccaAs a reader, there’s nothing so thrilling as the joy of discovery.
Rebecca is the story of the second Mrs. Maxim de Winter and is told in the first-person from her point of view.
At Manderley, the second Mrs. de Winter meets three interesting characters, only one of whom is presently animate.
Though Rebecca is already dead when the second Mrs. de Winter begins her tale, her presence – her ghost – rests heavily over everyone and everything.
There are disturbing secrets kept deep in Manderley, where the bride often loses her way, not spoken about by the servants and friends of Maxim, he often disappears into himself, what is he thinking about, Rebecca?
Ben a retarded man of the neighborhood, is there too, speaking gibberish but is it, or more dark secrets, divulged, she the bride sees a cottage falling into ruin, that Maxim avoids, the curious girl enters, finds many of Rebecca's things lying around, always objects that remind her, she will never be the real Mrs. de Winter, who still from the grave...
Wow, what an absorbing experience!
But because of the exquisite prose you get to know her so intimately, I was completely absorbed in her thoughts, what she sees and feels.
I've found out that Alfred Hitchcock made a movie of this book and I can't think of a better pairing, this story was made for the Hitchcock touch.
It's been a long time since I've added a book to my favorites of all time and this story has taken it's spot, hell, it deserves it's own shelf.
Also, since writing this I went ahead and upped my rating to a 5 Stars because sometimes I don’t know what I’m talking about immediately after finishing a book.Rebecca is generally considered a Gothic Romance/Mystery novel, but I think it’d be an injustice to the story not to acknowledge its Horror & Suspense characteristics as well.I originally became interested in Rebecca because I noticed its place on the Great American Reads list.
how I fell in love with this classic novel, I adored the main protagonist and felt she was fully developed as a character.
Her constant ruminations and daydreams really set the tone it's a real trip getting to be inside her head with all her naive neurotic thoughts, which often get carried away and make for a compelling read.It follows the main (unnamed) character when she moves to Manderley with her new husband, from the beginning she is aware that she lives in the shadow of the former mistress of Manderley...Rebecca.
So, how many times have you read Rebecca? Once, twice or no longer remember the numbers like me!! What!!! You have never read it!!!!! If there is one book that one has to read, this is the one. First published in April 1938, (it has never been out of print) it still remains an amazing and “current” read today, which grabs you one of the most famous and memorable sentences ever written.The padlocked gate opens and you follow the long drive when you suddenly – Manderley……..a silent and dark hou
First published in April 1938, (it has never been out of print) it still remains an amazing and “current” read today, which grabs you one of the most famous and memorable sentences ever written.The padlocked gate opens and you follow the long drive when you suddenly – Manderley……..a silent and dark house filled with secrets… I came upon it suddenly; the approach masked by the unnatural growth of a vast shrub that spread in all directions .
She agrees to marry him after a quick courtship and he then takes her to his home, Manderley, where the presence of his dead wife, Rebecca, still lives and kept alive by the evil and manipulative housekeeper, Mrs Danvers.
If I found myself in Interstellar's tesseract by a quirk of fate, then chances are I might leave a coded message for my younger self to read Rebecca asap. Since my ill-informed, younger self was not put off by cloyingly sentimental narrators who make the experience of 'tell don't show' all the more grating or the gender politics underpinning a work, her reaction to the book would have been more in tune with the multitude of gushing reviews on GR and elsewhere. My heart, for all its anxiety and d
Rebecca's saving grace is the authorial decision to leave the immature, young bride of Maxim de Winter nameless (let's call her Mary Lu shall we?) and deploy Manderley as a ubiquitous metaphor for the complete power that Rebecca wielded over the hearts of those who lived in her shadow.
As if Rebecca's entire self worth is hinged on her husband's opinion of her and the mere possibility of Mary Lu's being the sole recipient of Maxim de Winter's 'love' and approval makes her a much worthier person than Rebecca.
"If only there could be an invention that bottled up a memory, like scent." I read this novel as a very young girl, and remembered it as a love story.
Because I couldn't bottle up my memory like scent, I had this odd flavour of romance in my nose, and wasn't keen to smell it again, having no interest at all in that kind of fiction.
The main character is either a mansion, Manderley, or a woman who died a year before the narrative starts.
A perfect scare for a hot summer night, with thunder and lightning looming over dry landscapes, keeping the tension without breaking out in a relieving rain shower.
Updated review ......This is a classic book that I've had on my "to read" list for a long time.
But this book offers more than romance...
Therefore, I was unaware of the story's plot and how it unfolds.du Maurier does a fine job with this as "mystery"..
du Maurier's choice not to give the second Mrs. DeWinter a first name is an intriguing aspect of the story...
and underscores the feelings of worthlessness experienced by the second Mrs. deWinter.
As the story unfolds, it is clear that Rebecca was not, indeed, as perceived, I gave this 5 stars ...
