https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/613991.The_King_Beyond_the_Gate
And now we do it ourselves."King Beyond the Gate is the second volume of the Drenai saga.
The land is torn apart by a civil war.If you loved Legend, chances are huge that you will love the King Beyond the Gate for it does follow the same pattern.
In the Legend we have the Earl of Bronze or Druss - men who seemed larger than life itself, who inspired to fight, encouraged, and attracted others.
Maybe he wanted to create persuasive characters who would not be black and white, but represent different shades of gray instead.
Winter Warriors ★★★☆☆9.
The King Beyond the Gate (The Drenai Saga #2), David GemmellThe King Beyond The Gate is a fantasy novel by British writer David Gemmell.
It was the second book published by Gemmell, after Legend, published a year earlier.
The book is set in the same fictional world as Legend, that of the Drenai, but is not a sequel in the usual sense as the events of the two books take place around a century apart.
I think the blurb on my edition's cover gave the best description of the book, "The greatest army of the Drenai was dead to a man - and that man sought revenge..." There is almost nothing more to say.
A former general of Drenai army choose not to participate in the war that led to the tyrant's rise to power.
Now that his army is gone, and the terror stalks the land unopposed - the general has really nothing to lose, but he is only one man.I cannot help but to compare this book to the first one in the series, Legend.
There's a reason why the David Gemmell awards are called, the David Gemell awards All fantasy fans need to read these books. Granted it's only the second one I've read but they're already amongst my favourites. Gemmell writes about Valour, Pride and Friendship really well. I love that this story is epic in nature, but not in page number. Modern day authors might have stretched this one book out to a trilogy and milked it for everything. Absolutely amazing, already added the whole series to my shopping cart on Amazon.  ?......are you reading it yet?!????!
You (probably) try new places, but sometimes you just wanna go a place where you know what you're gonna get and that it's gonna be good shit.Gemmell's pretty good with characters...I mean, you're not gonna find a startlingly realistic and deep human being in these pages but the man did come up with Druss the fucking Legend, so you have to give him some credit.
Two generations after Druss the Legend, an evil ruler Ceska has risen to power.
Three former protectors of the realm (Tenaka Khan, Decado and Ananais) are reunited in their determination to bring him down, gathering allies as they face overwhelming odds and dark forces.
Strong women: leaders and lovers.
Courage, bravery, righteousness, and sacrifice, the hallmarks of epic fantasy, abound here.
Gory.My favorite quote: Love was what mattered.
Love of one for one.
There would always be tyrants.
Man seemed incapable of existing without them.
For without tyrants there would be no heroes, And man could not live without heroes.
4.5عجب چیزی بود!!شگفت انگیز بود و فصل پایانی فلسفه ای پنهان داشت.ریویو نوشتن برای این کتاب واقعا سخته این کتاب باید خونده بشه!در این کتاب مثل کتاب قبلیه این مجموعه (اسطوره)شاهد یک جنگ طولانینبودیم اما هیچ چیزی از کتاب قبلی کم نداشت و حتی بهتر هم بود.
دلیل اینکه نمره کامل ندادم اینه که ایده ها یه خورده مشابه ایده های کتاب های قبلی بود البته یک ایده ی خوبی داشت این کتابکه استفاده از پیوندی ها بود با استفاده از دستگاه هایی، انسان های ناقص و ضعیف رو به موجوداتی قدرتمند که نیمه انسان و نیمه حیوان بودن تبدیل میکردن که برای میدان نبرد آماده میشدن.
4.5بازم نخواستم 5 بدم چون این چلنج بسیار برای این نمره خساست به خرج می دمچی میشه گفت به گمل نازنین.
بازم یه داستان فانتزی قهرمانانه و شمشیر و جادو.
همیشه برای فانتزی خون ها راضی کننده است.
با کلی جملات ژرف و به یادماندنی.
همون تم بازگشت قهرمان های قدیمی برای نجات یک حکومتی که به سوی زوال و فاشیت داره حرکت می کنه .
اما کلی استراتژی جنگ قدرت های مادی و معنی و گاها روحانی.
چیزی که توی کتاب های گمل می بینم.
قهرمان خطا می کنه تصمیمات خودخواهانه می گیره و الزاما ایده آل محض نیست
I liked it at least as much as the first book.
There were a lot of conflicted characters, none perfectly good or bad.
No unicorns farting rainbows - some things just don't work out & good characters die.This isn't a deep complex series, though.
Gemmell just shows us the bit of the world we need, although there are hints of a larger world & there is certainly room for other books.
I have a few more of these books, but think that's enough for now.
My book memory is slipping.
Anyway, I look forward to reading more in this series.
You see, I read this book 10 years ago and the hero, Tenaka Khan was my first experience of a larger than life warrior.
So I had all these expectations and I started it with the worry, “Would this book be as amazing as it’d been the first time?” When I read it the first time, I was much younger and I worried that my older self wouldn’t be as impressed by Tenaka Khan as my younger self had been.
I didn’t want a bitter disillusionment.TKBTG follows the life of Tenaka Khan, born half-Drenai, half-Nadir, shunned by both.
I also feared that the romantic interests in the novel would see Gemmell starting to emulate that other David, Eddings, in the cozy, cloying way he pairs off members of his party of adventurers, but our David here has a more complex understanding of human nature even if his emotional scenes are not the most sophisticated.
Gemmell wrote heroic fantasy and his conception of heroism was robust, unapologetic and downright inspiring.
I can think of worse ways to spend my time.
ισως το διαβασα με λαθος διαθεση και δεν με εψησε
All of the major elements that made Legend one of my favorite books are there, but they just aren't pulled off as well.
The story isn't as engaging.
The inspiration isn't as inspirational.
The menace isn't as menacing.
None of these things would normally be too big of a deal because it's nearly impossible to match the greatness of those same elements in Legend.
The issue is that the stories are so similar that you can't help but compare.It's still a good story and well worth the read, but I would rank it towards the bottom of the Drenai series.
I finally managed to drag myself to the finish line on this.
That it took me this long for such a short book is insane.
If I didn't need this book for a couple of reading challenges I probably would've dropped this.
I liked Legend better.
This felt pretty much like a rehash of Legend's plot.
While the book had some good, non-dialogue lines most of the actual dialogue between characters felt stilted.
I liked Rayvan and Ananais but outside of those two I didn't really care about any of the other characters.
As story has it, Legend was written at a time when Gemmell was battling cancer **.
One of my chief dissatisfaction with Legend was in how Druss is presented wholesale, whereas TKBtGate allows us to examine each person slightly more thoroughly as we learn a bit more of each one.
In a sense, you read stories like Legend and TKBtGate for those big moments of valor and sacrifice, the kinds that stab you in the heart and make you cry because you know people have to die in order for others or themselves to be free.
If Legend was originally written without an end in mind **, then clearly TKBtGate is the opposite.
Il passato come condanna e rovina Passati cento anni dall'indimenticabile assedio di Dros Delnoch, quello che rimane sono dicerie, leggende e ballate accompagnate da qualche poesia spicciola sull'eroismo di quei giorni.Dall'effimera e opinabile mitizzazione dell'eroe, fulcro dell'opera, si dipana un'intensa e tragica riflessione sulla labilità delle proprie scelte, spesso filtrate da bisogni esterni - culto della bellezza, necessità di fede, desiderio d'appartenenza - a cui ci consegniamo spontaneamente.E quando sopraggiunge la realtà, ogni debolezza porta in dote un prezzo che sarà pagato.
Its hard for me not to give anything by David Gemmell absolutely amazing reviews. When I learned of his death I was actually sad for days . . . "No more David Gemmell Books . . . sad . . . " If you are a fan of classic fantasy and haven't read anything by him you're missing out. He was one of the rare writers that could make your heart start to beat faster when the character was in danger, he could make you laugh and want to cry all within a few pages of each other.
"The King Beyond the Gate" is the sequel novel to Gemmell's first book "Legend".The story takes place around 100 years after the events of Legend.
The books main focus is the character, Tenaka Khan.
In "Legend", 2 main nations had been established, The Drenai, an almost western medieval society, and the Nadir.
The Nadir were a bunch of individual tribes based loosely on Mongolian culture, who were united by one man - Ulric Khan.
The Drenai were led by Regnak - the 2nd Earl of Bronze.Tenaka Khan is the great-grandson of both Regnak and Ulric.
Both Legend and King Beyond the Gate are well worth checking out
Zapravo ocena je 2,5. Knjiga je previše nalik prvoj knjizi (Legenda).
I loved the book I thought this was going to be in the first chapter, with it's talk of dragons and a journey to kill a tyrant... the story lost a lot of that as it went along tho... at least it wasn't all rainbows and butterflies in the epilogue, again, this time around...
Meh... huge disappointment. Started off great, but went slowly down the drain as the story progressed in the sense that it's a bit too similar to Legend. Three stars because I find Gemmell's style to be superb. Shame though.
It's a good book, not an awesome one.The World (2,50) is the same of the first book and it lacks too many details about its history, its geografy, and its languages.
They can't all simply speak the same language, you can't tell me of some machines they found of a lost past.
The only thing is that it seems an episode disconnected from the story of the World: it didn't leave anything behind.The style (4.00) is very nice and smooth.Overall you can say: a good fantasy book, if you don't know what to read, you can read it but do not expect anything extraordinary.
Това не ги прави по-малко интересни.Танака Хан е половин надирец, половин дренай, наследник на Улрик и Бронзовия граф.
Останала му е една мисия - да убие тиранът Ческа, задушаващ в зловещата си хватка Дренай.Цитати:"- Великият Тертулиан някога бил попитан, какво ще стори, ако го нападне мъж, който е по-силен,по-бърз и неизмеримо по-умел от него.- И какво е отговорил той?- Че ще му отсече проклетата глава, задето лъже така.""- Не знаех, че е бил герой - той не ни каза.- Може би сам не е знаел."P.S. За съжаление, отново посредствен и претупан превод.
The journey down memory lane continues with the re-reading of David Gemmell's second instalment.It was fortold that there were three: Gold, Ice and Shadow.Reading this many years later makes me realise how memorable some of these characters were.
For me, Decado, known as the Ice Killer shone brightest.
"No man alive could match me with the blades, therefore all my enemies became defenceless.
I was no longer a warrior, but a murderer."Certain characters like Scaler didn't quite much up to the rest of the uber protagonists and the pacing of the novel was uneven in places as the newly minted fantasy novelist Gemmell struggled with the larger cast and multiple view points, but Gemmell intrinsically knows how to write a great yarn, with plenty of action and banter.Classic Gemmell, need I say more?
Its David Gemmell so his writing and plotting are as good as ever.
Read any of my other reviews of his books and most of the comments apply.In this book special mention goes to the ending.
We have no idea what was going to happen next but the it is clear there could have been so many more books in this series.
I thought the ending was well realised and very interesting and yet rang true.Magnificently done.
If you like fantasy and have never read a David Gemmell book then you are missing a treat.
Good installment in the series. Memorable quotes, great action, larger than life characters, and description that isn't overdone makes the book worth the read. However, it was a bit of a step down from Legend. Mainly, the ending and several character arcs felt rushed, especially in the last third.
This is mightily similar to the Legend, although, there are some interesting characters thrown in. Overall, the book is a fun and easy read. Although Gemmell writes some of the worst male/female interactions in existence.
The story about how the Drenai books came to be is pretty interesting.
Gemmell was diagnosed with cancer and he wrote the first book Legend as a way to deal with his own mortality, to come to terms with it.
But, as he finished the book, his cancer went into remission.
There are descendants of the dudes from the first book in this one and there is the similar premise of a small group facing impossible odds.
A simple book, won't leave you with much food for thought, a linear story, but you can get done in a few hours, so there is that.
Another good story by a great author. The master of creating the kind of hero people wish they could be. I only withheld a fifth star because part of the end was too rushed (didn't give any explanation about how Scaler captured Dros Delnoch after entering the fortress alone).This is a story about the overthrow Ceska, a tyrant emperor, by Tenaka Khan, Ananious, and brave mountain folk. Fine heroic fantasy in the face of impossible odds, especially against a special kind of monster called: Joinings (part human and part animal).
Pretty excellent follow-up to Legend. Characters you live, even if they are so so flawed....
