https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/194633.The_Four_Swans
We try to speak to each other like through a glass, all of us."Either I'm getting increasingly sentimental with each passing year, or Winston Graham had special powers that shine through in his writing!
I felt so emotional reading this book, and I might have to say this is my favorite in the series thus far.
This is the sixth book in the spectacular Poldark series set in late 1700s Cornwall.
I like that Winston Graham does not create just a little insular world, but rather always keeps in the background the political and historical events of the times.
I had to put the book aside for awhile and read something a little lighter before I could finish Four Swans.If you're looking for a dramatic and tragic romance this is the book for you.
(view spoiler)[What in the world is going on with Demelza???
I do not like her storyline one little bit as it's so out of character.
Just another reason I had to put the book aside for awhile.
(hide spoiler)]Can't wait until karma visits the dastardly Warleggans and I'm patiently waiting for that point to arrive, I don't care how many books it takes.
5 STARS  Near the bank were four swans, almost stationary, moving so slowly that they appeared, only to be drifting with the tide. Each one mirrored, duplicated in the still water. It seemed sometimes that they could see their own reflections and were admiring themselves. Then one or another would break her reflection by dipping a delicate beak. Graceful things.White things. Like women.Unpredictable. Gentle. Fierce. Faithful or unfaithful. Loyal or traitorous. God who knew?  I can't remember the
5 STARS
It seemed sometimes that they could see their own reflections and were admiring themselves.
Then one or another would break her reflection by dipping a delicate beak.
Like women.Unpredictable.
I can't remember the last time I was so drawn into a story.
This author has truly captured my heart and soul with this incredible and often heart wrenching story.
Whoever said men can't be truly romantic....
for I am beginning to believe that they are so much more so than women.
This author and his fabulous books are nothing less than..
"Oh, Ross, will you not hold me?""Yes, he said, doing it."Please hold me and never let me go.""Nor shall I, if you give me the chance.""Not till we die. Ross, I could not live without you."What can I say that I have not said already? This book. This series. These characters. Such a brilliant author, Winston Graham. I would have liked to have known him. Previous review: The swans were moving away now, pale, dignified, enigmatical, out of his life forever. Double mirrored in the soundless pool, th
"Oh, Ross, will you not hold me?""Yes, he said, doing it."Please hold me and never let me go.""Nor shall I, if you give me the chance.""Not till we die.
Ross, I could not live without you."What can I say that I have not said already?
Such a brilliant author, Winston Graham.
I would have liked to have known him.
This author is brilliant indeed- drawing out a myriad of emotions, the reader but putty in his hands.
To think that there are six more books in this series of which to read is both a thrill and a disappointment.
He is such a skillful and thoughtful writer that he never gives us an inconsistency in the character that cannot be explained or that is foreign to what he has already told us about them; he finds new plot twists that are in total keeping with the realities of life and seem brilliantly surprising; and he adds new characters when they make sense and has them interact with the old characters without overshadowing them.
It cannot be read in anything other than chronological order and it is twelve books total.
I must say that the joy of reading these books has been increased tenfold by the sharing of it with the wonderful ladies of the RFP group.
"Swans.
Graceful things.
White things.
Like women.
Unpredictable.
Gentle.
Fierce.
Faithful or unfaithful.
Loyal or traitorous.
God, who knew?" Number six in this series certainly did not disappoint.
In the late 18th century, men ruled in business and politics, but strong women controlled those men.
With love, manipulation, subtlety, sometimes outright deception, smart women figured out how to get what they wanted.
Winston Graham's women in this series are indeed strong and powerful in their own way.
Demelza and Catherine certainly, from the beginning.
The women, especially, are those who not only move forward in life in an attempt to make their own choices, but they influence others to act accordingly, be it by kindness, thought or action.
In this book, Ross thinks of the four swans in his life:Caroline Penvenen: A woman who marries below her station in life for love.
Elizabeth Warleggan: Elizabeth continues to attempt to dampen the jealousy her husband, George, has for Ross.
When it comes to George, his jealousy of Ross keeps his character interesting and it was nice to read that Ross is no longer financially spent.
*SPOILER ALERT!*Whatever else you might think of Winston Graham's writing, his characters are sterling.
Here, Ross is depressed, Demelza is destroyed, Demelza's brother Sam is separating from the woman he loves, and her brother Drake continues to moon over his lost love.However, all is not entirely bleak.
Elizabeth's unexpected and aggressive stance toward George reaps rewards for Drake, and Ross has become a member of Parliament at George's expense.
And Morwenna has stood up to her odious husband.In an earlier review, I wondered if there was a nastier character in Western literature than George Warleggan, but now I think he has nearly met his match in the disgusting Reverend Osborne Whitworth.
Impresionante que a estas alturas de la serie pueda sufrir y disfrutar tanto, ya me espero cualquier cosa.
Me he quedado loca con algunas cosas quee pasan, determinados comportamientos de algunos personajes que no me esperaba.
No sé explicarme pero me parece espectacular cómo consigue este escritor crear personajes tan profundos, con tantas aristas, cómo logra mantener la tensión y el interés hasta con los personajes secundarios.
Y las tramas que se saca de la manga...
La trama política es algo más liosa pero muy interesante (sobre todo al final).
Gimlett heard him coming and trotted round the house to take Sheridan.'Is the mistress in the parlour?''No, sur, she went out two hours agone.''Out?''Yes, sur.'He found Jeremy and Clowance in the parlour playing some very untidy game with Betsy Maria Martin, a pretty girl now of sixteen, who always blushed when she saw Ross exactly as her sister had done so many years ago.'Sorry, sur.
4.5 stars.
Demelza makes a mistake in this book, but Ross, maybe realizing he shouldn't throw stones, deals with it much more maturely than I would have thought.
However, we STILL see his emotion and love for demelza even without him going off the deep end.
I also love that Ross gave demelza the space she needed without making any demands.
All the years Ross loved Elizabeth, demelza always let him be and knew he would either find a way to make their life together work, or he wouldn't.
She never pressured him into making a choice one way or the other.

As much as I enjoy Graham's writing, the whole side-story of Ossie and Morwenna really could have been left out, or at least greatly reduced.
Shocking turn of events as Morwenna stands up to Ossie and tells him how things are going to be.
(Sidenote: Near the end of the book her sister Rowella is called "Rowena" which threw me for a minute.) It was good to see George start to feel the effects of his backstabbing and ruthless social climbing.
This is a character with no redeeming qualities in the books.
There's not much to like about her in the books.
"Whatsoever love hath ordained it is not fit to despise"
This story perhaps falls more in the "romance" genre than the others as numerous men reconcile themselves to loves they cannot have--Demelza's brothers Sam and Drake and the besotted Hugh Armitage, yearning for the wife of the man that saved his life.The author includes many moments of introspection and deep thoughts in this novel.
Tenderness is not like money; the more you give to one the more you have for others." From Ross: "No man wants his wife to be a woman that other men don't desire....But every man wants his wife to be a woman that other men don't get."Intertwined in the lives of the characters (Ross, Demelza, George, Elizabeth, Drake, Sam, Dwight, Caroline, Morwenna, Osborne) is the ongoing Napoleonic war and civil unrest in England among the poor.
I would like to file a complaint with...I dunno...the FCC? THE NEXT BOOK ISN'T ON AUDIBLE. I'm going to have to READ it with my EYES. Also, I may have to wait a hot minute because the full collector's set I ordered is coming from across the pond. Je regrette rien!(PS - This one gets three stars because I don't believe a damn word of Demelza's story line.
Starting to get really really irritated with Ross and Demelza. Ross for still mooning over Elizabeth and not talking to Demelza and Demelza choosing to run into the arms of another man rather than talking to Ross about what is happening between him and Elizabeth. I'm ready to bang their heads together. These issues almost destroyed their marriage and it seems like they haven't learned anything
Grande este autor. Tramas nuevas e interesantes, sin perder de vista lo que se arrastra desde el primer libro y sin que canse por eso. Personajes humanos que nos resultan creíbles y cercanos, porque caen en comportamientos que nadie espera. ¡A por el séptimo de cabeza!
Another good installment, my favorite so far.
“Four women in his life? Four with whom he had been concerned this year? Demelza and Elizabeth, of course. Caroline? Who was the fourth? One of the swans had a damaged wing, feathers awry and stained. On Sawle Feast day, Ross had been turning to leave his pew when Morwenna had smiled at Drake, and he had caught a glimpse of the smile. The damaged swan. Appropriate image.”
George and Elizabeth's marriage is crumbling due to his suspicions and long-held jealousy of Ross.
While Drake settles into his new life trying to forget Morwenna, she is suffering, trapped into a loveless marriage with a man who does not even respect her.
I really liked her thoughts on a successful marriage and I think of all of the couples, Dwight and Caroline will be the happiest in the long run.
I also liked how Ross acknowledged what he had done to Elizabeth, something he ignored in the show.
I did like how Demelza's feelings were complicated and the way she acknowledged them to Ross.
What a crime that this series is so hard to find, and only the first 3 are available as ebooks! Got the first 3 at the library and have had to buy the rest used on Amazon. Shameful! Please read this series. You will love it! Also looking forward to reading his Marnie if I can find it!
The Four Swans that glide through the life of Ross Poldark's life are beautiful creatures all special in their own way.
This was a wonderful installment in the Poldark series and I couldn't stop reading it.
I was disappointed with her but hopefully she will improve in the next book because her involvement with the lovesick Hugh Armitage is over.The Four Swans was a dramatic and titillating installment in the Poldark series.
It was wonderful to see all the "swans" of Cornwall come together and touch the life of Ross Poldark.

It didn’t quite have the flow of the last book , though still an enjoyable read.
Demelza, his wife, Elizabeth, his "former" fiancée, Caroline, a close friend and Morwenna, Elizabeth's niece all figure prominently in this book as do two of Demelza's brothers.
When you bring in the slick, slimy Warleggans and pit them directly versus Ross, it is certain to bring conflict and violence set in late 18th century Cornwall, this book also gives us insight into the history of the area and of the mining industry of this time found there and it does so with great characters, wonderful story lines and lots of great reading.
WAAAAY better than The Black Moon!!
Totally redeemed itself.
Not that Poldark ever had to though.
But damn.
So, Hugh the Homewrecker, as I've fondly taken to calling him...
Seriously, I hate this guy.
He all but basically tricked Demelza!
Though I do have to give her A LITTLE credit here, he did have to work hard to do it.
I'm so glad that after she was plagued with guilt and didn't even know why she did anything!
We don't either, Demelza!!
And Caroline and Dwight!!!!!
EEEEEKK!!!!
A BABY!!!!!
I cannot wait for that!!
damn, I thought it couldn't get any worse!
The Four Swans is the sixth book on Poldark's saga. Who are the four swans? Demelza who unexpectedly finds a new lover; Elizabeth for whom Ross still has a special place in his heart for her, perhaps something else even more important than that; Caroline which marriage takes another step through motherhood; and Morwena with an unhappy marriage with Osborne Whitworth and the special attention given to her by Demelza's brother Drake Cane. As historical background, the Napoleonic war starts to blow its first shots into European countries.
I like this series but I find all the politic talk quite boring and admit to skimming those parts. Ross has turned into a jerk the last few books and I was quite pleased as to how Demelza treated him in this one. I'm halfway through the series so of course I want to keep reading because I like the characters and their stories. This is the kind of series that I stop and start and could take a couple more years to get through!
