https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11525.1_000_Places_to_See_Before_You_Die
I want to write the opposite of this book or an alternative to this book or a thousand alternatives 
I have been fortunate in my life to have traveled many places in the world (all continents except Antarctica) so I read this much-hyped book with pen in hand.
This book listed plenty of options, but I found a large percentage of the author's "best places" to simply be advertisements for fancy hotels and restaurants.
I did add to my "wish to travel to" list, but I wish more natural or human-made wonders (many of which cost only the transportation there) had been included without the places only the very wealthy could go.
What can I say about this?I'm still working on it! ;-PHmm... And I probably should count how many places I already visited. Review to be continued. *lol*One day... some day? In the near or far future? Who knows? \_(ツ)_/
What can I say about this?I'm still working on it! ;-PHmm... And I probably should count how many places I already visited. Review to be continued. *lol*One day... some day? In the near or far future? Who knows? ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
Otherwise - if you are looking for the places in the world to see before you die, look at UNESCO's ever-growing list of heritage sites, which isn't quite to 1000 yet, but will be in just a few years.
As a world traveler, I can tell you that Schultz misses the mark again and again regarding the most beautiful or most interesting or most historic places to see in any given country (when she doesn't skip entire countries!).
Talk to any world traveler who has made the mistake of buying this book, and you will get an earful of just how dreadful it is.
I won this is as my free book from my library's summer reading program two summers ago.
I didn't as much read the entire book as I skimmed it over with my mother who actually travels quite a bit.
She did stop at the place near Jackson, Mississippi on a road trip thanks to a tip from this book so all is not lost.
And she does consult the book when planning vacations.
This would, however, be an ideal book for people who travel a lot and would be like a reference to consult.
I don't know why I ever thought that reading someone else's ideas about the 1000 best places in the world would be an enjoyable experience. It's of course totally biased & unsatisfying. Do people really enjoy visiting historic hotels this much? Unf*ckingbelievable.
It's an intriguing concept, and kinda fun to page through, but way too heavy on $300/night hotels, spas, etc.
She recommends a festival, the Book of Kells and the pubs (possibly in conjunction with St. Patrick's Day).
But she also recommends a $65/plate restaurant and a $300/night hotel.
I could forgive the restaurant if there was less of that kind of stuff.I prefer to use the almost-1000-long World Heritage List.
Maybe it's just as arbitrary in its own way, but at least it's the product of a consensus, and it's heavier on cultural and natural must-sees.
Alternate titles for this book could include:1000 Self-Important Places to Fall AsleepTravel Guide for Schmucks with Money and No Imagination800 Rich People's Houses and Overpriced Hotels, Plus Another Couple Hundred of The Most Obvious and Overrated Tourist Traps in the World.1000 Wealthy-and-Upper-Bourgeoise Haunts to Gawk At While Pretending You're Not a Wage-Slave Before You Die of Stress-Induced Illnesses Caused By Overwork Trying To Pay Off The Debt Incured from the Vacations Recommended in This Book.
this books sucks.. when i started this book i thought i was holding a treasure, i thought this book will have all of my future regarding seeing the world. i thought this would be my map to the world to the most mesmerizing landscapes and adventuresbut i was wrong.this book contains all the fancy looking hotels and all the extravagant places.. no adventure, no marvels.. seriously, im disappointed with this book. it is like an international directory. period
Very well researched and extremely informative. I can tell that the author is certainly well read because she points out locations from books and movies. My bucket list is now an over packed suitcase.
Way too Americentric for my liking. More than half of these places are incredibly "blah", and they left out a bunch that I would much rather see.Perhaps I'm just atypical, but I found the book frustrating. I found myself searching for places I want to visit so that I could learn more about them, only to not stumble across them.To top it off, a bunch of the suggestions are obvious. Do we really need an inclusion of the Louvre? DUHHhhhh......
I am a great lover of travel, so naturally I picked up and actually even purchased this book. But when I delved deeper I realized almost everything within was outrageously priced! I know for a fact that my most magical moments abroad didn't cost a penny. I think this gives people the wrong idea about travel altogether.
This book was given to me as a gift a few months ago and I am happy to have it on my bookshelf of references.While I do recommend 1000 Places To See Before You Die as a Must Have in your personal travel library, it is more like an encyclopedia than a travel guide.
While this is a great reference to have on hand, I actually prefer curling up in a cozy place and reading travel guide books for information about places to see in the world rather than an encyclopedia style.
This is a companion piece to another volume of hers, in which she explores 1,000 places to see within the United States.
The world is divided into eight regions, for the purposes of organizing discussion: Europe; Africa; the Middle East; Asia; Australia, New Zealand, and the Pacific Islands; the United States and Canada; Latin America; the Caribbean, Bahamas, and Bermuda.
Needless to say, any selection like this is apt to engender discussion--Why were some places left out?
But that's part of the fun of a book like this!
It has been a lot of fun to check off the places I have already seen in this book, and also to make note of the ones I want to see next. Any book that fills you with the intrigue of travel and the promise of new and exciting sights and experiences is worth a glance every now and then.
3.5 stars.This is really only one person's preferences and interests. Although I may not agree with or be interested in seeing all the places listed, I still think it does provide some solid information to those places that I may want to visit. A number of reviewers also commented on the expensive accommodation and restaurants, but again I think that's the author's prerogative and reader's choice. If you can afford it, then why not?Note: review is based on the revised 2nd edition.
A cousin-in-law who lives there said I shouldn't actually see England as the England in my head is really far more beautiful and quite fictional.8) Long backroads and good b-b-q and people that say "hey".9) Watch the sun set in a desert.
Above book gets extra star for inspiring imaginative meanderings.
I will definitely consult this next time I travel as I plan my trip.HOWEVER, I would research a place and take with me a more detailed country specific guide (like Let's Go or Rick Steves) when actually travelling for other sites, hostel/hotel and food suggestions.
Secondly, as others have mentioned she spends WAY too much precious space on the US (if you're going to skip whole countries, it's probably ok to skip a few states).
Nonetheless, I'm going to use this note to add my suggestions: I would suggest that if you're ever in Poland, you visit the Auschwitz/Birkenau concentration camps.
For this the book is fun, but I am a little disappointed and disturbed at the unequal distribution of places between the countries and continents.
Dozens of places in the USA (almost 200 pages out of 900) and Europe, but only 11 in Russia, 5 of them in Moscow and 5 in St. Petersburg plus the Transsiberian Railway (that's a total of 8 pages)?
You'd think Russia was the smallest country on the planet and only consisted of those two towns connected by a railway...[return]Also the places listed in Switzerland are definitely not on my list where I absolutely have to take my foreign friends.
They're mostly very snobbish places.
This is quite the book. It goes into a summary description with useful information about each of the 1,000 places. It's a book to dream by and then go out and explore -- thus turning the written words into reality and finally memory. Love it! I hope I can keep exploring this book and places for many years to come.
I borrowed this from the library as a reference. My husband and I decided to make a list of all the places we'd like to travel. A vacation bucket list if you will. This book had some great ideas of places to visit, I highly recommend it.
This is my go to book for any travel at all - whether I'm going somewhere for work or personal travel. I team this up with a Lonely Planet country guide and jobs a good 'un. Honest about whats a 'must see' - the hotels and a bit aspirational for my budget though.
I've heard about people having competitions to see which of their friends can visit more of the places listed in this book.
After all, I tend to seek the out of the way, more unique, known only to "locals" places.
That would never make a tour guide book, but I loved seeing the town, interacting with the locals, and enjoying a dinner complete with fresh vegetables we bought that afternoon.
I had only been to five of the places in the first book.
Underwhelmed by the book. I think it provides some good ideas if you are planning a trip somewhere and want a quick idea to run with without going out and buying Frommer's. But that's essentially what this is...a very general travel guide. There are a lot of great things left out...and some great things included. I consider it more of a coffee-table book. Not something you'd ever actually sit down and read cover to cover.
This is beautiful book full of fascinating information. I downgraded my rating only because Big Bend National Park should have replaced one of the entries for Texas. While you may not agree with all of the selections, you are sure to find places you would not have considered had you not read this book.
This is a book to skim and turn down the corners on the pages of places I've been lucky enough to actually see. After more than 40 years of travel, I've hardly made a dent. Plus....there are favorite places I've loved beyond measure that aren't included. It will probably end up in the Goodwill after I croak and some hapless buyer will scorn over the pinched corners. Too bad. Ha ha
This book had the potential to be a great guide to all the "must sees in each city, but it sadly doesn't quite deliver. There are a LOT of great places missing and do you really need to see each 5 star hotel in every city?? 1,000 Places to See Before You Die is good for seeing where you might want to travel to next...and then buying the Lonely Planet when you book the tickets.
Ως λάτρης των ταξιδιών κατευχαριστήθηκα αυτό το βιβλίο όσο δεν πάει. Σίγουρα στη λίστα μου προστέθηκαν και άλλοι προορισμοί :)Πλήρης ο οδηγός, ακόμη και με τηλέφωνα και διευθύνσεις. Σιγουρευτείτε όμως ότι έχετε τη νέα έκδοση. Πολύ καλοί οι χάρτες και οι φωτογραφίες που σε ταξιδεύουν μακριά.Really loved it... θα επανέρχομαι συχνά
I enjoy reading about the places they recommend around the world and checking off places I've visited. I won't get to all 1,000 that they recommend, but I always feel so fortunate that I have the opportunity to travel to some amazing places and experience so many incredible cultures and people.
A good reference for travelers.
