https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24934065-rebel-of-the-sands
4.5/5 stars! Review coming soon to my channel...
Jin had the sort of smile that would turn over whole empires to the enemy - that made me feel like suddenly I understood him exactly, even though I knew nothing about him. I was so certain I would love this book. A Middle-Eastern fantasy with djinn, magic and mythical horses? It's like a unique and delicious recipe for exactly the kind of book I would love. And yet, for the first two thirds, I was so painfully bored I very nearly DNFed it.Rebel of the Sands does pick up toward the end when the
And yet, for the first two thirds, I was so painfully bored I very nearly DNFed it.Rebel of the Sands does pick up toward the end when the real fantasy and magic elements are finally introduced to the story.
Because Amani has been desperate to leave her town and Jin is a wanted fugitive, the two hit the road in a blaze of drama.I think what this story lacks for a long time is an end goal.
3.75 Review on my channel to come!
Amani is disguised as a boy and needs to win in order to finally have enough money to escape Dustwalk and travel all the way to Izman, the place her mother always told stories about.
She’s actually my favorite heroine in a ya book in quite some time.Every single chapter ended with something that kept me needing to read.
I am excited to see where the story goes in the second book.
I felt like Rebel of the Sands ended nicely without any crazy cliffhangers, but still left you wanting to read more.
4.5 stars Guys, meet your new favorite historical fantasy series.
This book has spectacular world-building, nimble dialogue, finely drawn characters, and epic battles with magic--not to mention so much chemistry between the main characters that the air is practically charged with the irresistible pull between them.
This is that sweeping story (and romance) you might've wanted from THE WRATH AND THE DAWN but didn't quite get.
I hope like hell this makes a lot of bestseller lists.
And holy hell, it's a debut!
So excited for more books from this author, and for this story to continue.
This is a spaghetti Western meets Middle Eastern fantasy and it is just as bad as it sounds.
It was also a Western, and it was also super fucking boring.
I wasn't one of them.Aside from the Middle-Eastern-magic thingy, there are a few similarities between this book and Walk On Earth A Stranger.1.
Girl disguises herself to get the fuck out of Dodge4.
Girl goes on a long-ass, unending, again, excruciatingly dull road trip to get to wherever the fuck she's supposed to goJudging from the high ratings for this book and Walk On Earth A Stranger, clearly people like this stuff.
I don't usually like sand books < -- that's what I call them, lol, but I loved this one so much!
We have Amani who is dead on with a gun and she's wanting to get out of her town and away from her evil uncle and his wives and kids.
Hell to the no!
She's trying to make money to get the hell out of dodge.
Well of course, since women can't own a damn thing, Amani would have to give it to her sorry uncle.
Anyhoo, things happen and Amani and Jin head out of town on said, Buraqi.
I really enjoyed this! It was a very cool world and culture to be immersed in. Now that being said I didn't absolutely love it, but it was entertaining!
Why, oh why?Tragedy aside, this shiny book took me longer than necessary to read.
It’s not everyday that I read a book set in the desert.
Fortunately, I loved the mystical creatures presented, if I dare use that word.
Until we actually meet one of those creatures, they are talked about as if they were fairytale characters, like they may exist… somewhere.
The danger is not as present and the walking and riding and escaping seem to be eternal.
Talk about building suspense.
When I got to the end I couldn’t stop reading.
The last 1/3 of the book is really something.
FULL REVIEW TO COME
I also have a question - is the name "God" used correctly in this book?
I believe the religion is fictional however it draws upon the Islamic faith so I'm unsure.
Alongside the Middle Eastern setting it stood out a bit like a sore thumb.
Just wanted to ask the question here as it may just be due to my own experiences, however I have also seen other comments/reviews (especially from Arab readers) mentioning that other elements of the religion and the world draws upon Islam and Middle Eastern culture in such a way that it doesn't seem well researched and is stereotypical.
"But if knowledge was power, then the unknown was the greatest weakness of immortal things.” Story ⭐⭐⭐⭐Dustwalk always seemed like a prison to Amani - boring with horrible people in it. The only things she loved were her mother and shooting with a gun. When her mother gets hanged for killing her husband and Amani is being send to her aunt, Amani’s urge to run away becomes strong. She tries to win the money to get away - but chaos and a foreigner come into her way. Soon she meets the foreigner a
"But if knowledge was power, then the unknown was the greatest weakness of immortal things.” Story ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Dustwalk always seemed like a prison to Amani - boring with horrible people in it.
This book is full of great action, Djinns magic, stories and a rebellion with a traitor prince.
The book is also funny and feels magical, it makes you smile and dream of different wonderful worlds in it.
No, Amani knows she’s better than any man with a gun.
It was filled with stories from Djinns and Mortals, ruthless Sultans and Princes that wish for a rebellion.Great BR with my cutie :*
It's fine, though, because I'm pretty sure the person who owns the copy I borrowed hates it so much she'd rather it were across the channel too.I couldn't make head nor tail of it: it's a weird unnecessary blend of wild west and Arabic folklore, set against a sort of steampunky backdrop with a low fantasy element and also a rebellion and this book just needs to decide what it is and roll with it.
❝Tell me that and we’ll go. Right now. Save ourselves and leave this place to burn. Tell me that’s how you want your story to go and we’ll write it straight across the sand.❞ I think everything from Rebel of the Sands was set differently but it just made it! Alwyn Hamilton was able to mix fantasy with some romance in it and set it in a midwestern/eastern setting and I think that was great of her! Even with that, the fantasy added more since there were mythical creatures and abilities given to t
Thinking Jin is her only escape and the only one able to help him, they decide to team up and escape where they are headed to.While being together and having moments together, Amani discovers secrets behind this town, about herself, and truths about each other.These are actually the kind of fantasy novels I enjoy flying through!
He knew what he was doing and was able to do it in the right way.Everything was quick and since this turned out to be a trilogy, I was glad nothing ended in a way to leave me very bothered and wishing I never finished the story.
It was a glorious conglomeration of Persian fantasy, magic horses, sass, and guns...and I absolutely freaking loved it.(Seriously tho, was this book written for me??
(It reminded me a bit of Blood Red Road actually, which I also abso-freaking-lutely love.) We have, like, weapons factories and GUNNNNNNS and shooting people -- but we also have spirits and ghouls and terrible things lurking in the desert that like to rip your face off.
Because Amani was like kicking the sexism in the teeth...but I am so tired of sexist fantasy worlds....but basically?!?
1.5 StarsI'm honestly amazed at how popular this book is considering how heavily it relies on stereotypes of middle eastern culture and lore to develop its plot, world, and characters. Not a fan at all.
I have read a couple of own voices reviews that seem to be in conflict about the representation, and as I have no experience with the background it's hard for me to know what to think.While reading, I was very engaged and found the story and world interesting and enjoyable.
I particularly loved that some big things were revealed around 3/4 in because this gave us a little time to explore them and get excited for the next book without revealing too early, which can sometimes make me grow bored.I love (view spoiler)[ Amani's power and everything about how it was revealed.
Buddy read 4/5 (we're aLMOST there !!!) with, Praggs  ♡♡♡  DNF @ 50%  I started this book with such high expectations! I mean, fierce desert girl escaping a terrible situation with her sharpshooting skills! W o w, sounds great !!!But after reading twelve chapters. . .Personally, I’m just concerned where the plot went. . .Literally nonexistent. The clichés in this book are intense. We got:- “The Special Snowflake” – this girl has striking blue eyes (that has to be mentioned three times per chapt
-	She’s only sixteen but she’s a world-class sharpshooter – never misses a shot- The girl who everyone is madly in love with but she's obvious cause like :) :) :) :)-	The Mysterious Foreigner which is basically insta-love just dying to be called out-	The Terrible Parents -	The EFFING LAME KISS IN THE 8TH CHAPTER-	The writing style that makes you want to jump out of a windowI seriously wanted to prove everyone wrong and love this book despite my initial distaste to it but like please stop writing clichés and write something more fascinating than a boring MC and a missing plot.
But there's nothing mystical or magical about Dustwalk, the dead-end town that Amani can't wait to escape from.
This book has certain elements that are typical of YA fantasy novels, but nothing like your average YA fantasy, in my opinion.Amani desperately wants to escape the small desert town of Dustwalk.
With a little help from a handsome foreigner, Amani escapes into the world outside of Dustwalk.
I loved this beautiful story and cannot wait to read the next book!What I Did Not Like:Nothing that I can think of at the moment!
There are lots of magical beings - djinni, Skinwalkers, horses made of sand (Buraqis), and Demdjis who are hybrids and have different powers.
One of the magical characters shapeshifts into both men and women, which is different.It's a very cool world.
But it's mainly plot driven and about Amani's self-discovery and finding a new unconventional family.The female lead is GREAT.
It's funny because there is a popular reviewer here (who is awesome and writes great reviews) who, whenever I see has given a book a one or two star rating, I know I will probably end up liking the book!
The fact that the setting was very different to what I usually read was why I loved it.
I loved how Alwyn Hamilton decided to change the typical setting that is in every other book and made it so diverse.
The sad part now is that I need to wait to have the second book in my hands.
I loved how even though where she lived women weren’t able to do much she still taught herself all these things and tried to be different.
I loved how a lot of things that happened around a third of the book was so different.
This review can also be found on my blog, Dana and the Books.Rebel of the Sands has one of the best opening chapters I've read in a long time!We start by finding Amani Al'Hiza disguised as a boy and about to take part in a gun shooting competition.
We see desert battles, gun slinging competitions, mythical sand horses, a train heist, I could go on, but I won't because you all should read the book.Now, why did I give this four out of five rather than the full five?
Amani Al’Hiza has been trying to escape her hometown Dustwalk for years; but even though she’s a gifted gunslinger with a perfect aim, she just can’t manage to shoot herself out of the town on her own.
Furthermore, there were so many things that I just didn’t see coming and it was definitely one of the most entertaining novels I’ve read in a long time.
Another thing I loved about “Rebel of the Sands” were the unique characters.
It had amazing characters, a great plot, was super interesting and a book I just couldn’t put down anymore which is pretty much everything I was looking for.
ME!- We get introduced to a LOT of characters, at times I couldn’t keep up… don’t know who’s related to who in some cases, and it was a lot of information thrown at me in one chapter than I don’t think has fully settled until probably Traitor to the Throne.- Why are the women seen to be lesser and not equal, it’s something I can’t stand.
I’m hoping to see a lot more magic, get to know other characters more and find out more information.
Video Review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XHRZy...Update 2/19/16 - After sitting on this one, I'm rating it a 2.5 instead.All I can really say about this is that the book left a lot to be desired.Rebel of the Sands tells the story of a young woman gunslinger named Amani.
That's all you get from the summary on the back of the book and this all takes place in the first 75 pages leaving you to wonder what the hell the plot is.
I just wanted more for this world and I felt like it all wasn't very developed well and could have been.
It's been almost a year since I've read this, but it stuck to me in a way that I can still remember a lot about what I loved about it.
At first she was too into herself and a bit stuck up, but her development was amazing and she turned into such a compassionate, loving heroine by the end.
3. A super cute love interest and romance -- Jin is just a mixture of mysterious, witty and charming (yes, feel free to ask for my hand in marriage, Jin darling), who isn't afraid to back down.
It was just fast enough for a lot of things to go down, remain totally investing, but still understandable.5.
Mini review:Wow this was so much fun! I loved Amani and Jin. The magic and the stories were really cool! Will definitely be continuing this series.
The characters were actually my favorite part and I loved all the different abilities each Demdji had.
Although, I found that Amani's ability to manipulate sand was a little unusual.
But I guess considering how this story is set in the desert, I suppose it proved useful.However, I was a little disappointed that the Rebel Prince played a very minor role in the book.
If Jin turned out to be the Rebel Prince, it would've been predictable but at least understandable and believable because we spent the whole book being around him as opposed to 2-3 scenes with Ahmed.Rebel of the Sands had a few twists and turns and I enjoyed the adventure that this book put me on.
WESTERNS, I love 'em. FYI. So REBEL OF THE SANDS was already on my radar before I read the preview chapters, but now I NEEDS IT. B/c this: A group of factory workers still in their uniforms huddled around a nomad in a busted-up wagon who was shouting about selling Djinni blood that’d grant good folks their hearts’ desires. His wide grin looked desperate in the oily lamplight, and no wonder. It’d been years since anyone round these parts had seen a real live First Being, let alone a Djinni. Besid
A group of factory workers still in their uniforms huddled around a nomad in a busted-up wagon who was shouting about selling Djinni blood that’d grant good folks their hearts’ desires.
It’d been years since anyone round these parts had seen a real live First Being, let alone a Djinni.
I dropped the money on the table in a jangling handful of louzi and half-louzi that I’d scrimped one by one over the past three years.
That's as far as I got with the preview, but the writing is fantastic and authentic, and I want the rest of it NOW.
*3.75*
