https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311121.April_Lady
And let me not leave his wife out of the blame, Nell was a goose for not telling Cardross the whole truth from the beginning, I really don't know how she planned to explain herself the deeper she went.
Sadly, these characters just were not Rule, Horry, Pelham and Rupert.
And that this Was supposedly about Nell and Cardross , but they never felt like a true couple to me.
But heaven forbid you let her know you love her!
Now to admit it: I never intended to like this more than The Convenient Marriage, and I didn't.
Love love love Georgette Heyer.
No one can do it quite like her although many try.
I love every moment of each of her books.
This particular book is not one of my most favourites but it is still delightful.
I have to admit to a few almost tears at the end - happy ones of course as Heyer always writes the best happy endings.
For me she is the ultimate in light reading and I always reach for her books when I need something sweet and fluffy yet still well written.
This time we unfortunately have no grounds for the love itself which, given the unattractive traits they exhibit during the course of the story, leaves the reader with little sense of romance.
The secondary romance of the hero's unbearably spoilt and self-centered little sister was even less supported, as Letty behaved in ways that clearly distressed her better-mannered beau and no explanation for their mutual adoration is ever evinced.
Heyer has written other romantic pairings with equal lack of sense, but usually they possess more charming personalities.
And it was nice that her brother, although a wastrel, did his best to find a way to help her.
This was a very good historical romance novel. This is the second book I have read by this author. Both books were replete with simpering women and gamblers. It is a story of unrequited love. The man and wife love each other but do not know how to let the other one know. I enjoyed the naritor. She did the voices and accents very well.I highly recommend this book to all.Enjoy and Be Blessed.Diamond
The story opens with Nell and her husband, the Earl of Cardross, who are very deeply in love with each other, but are both under the impression that the other doesn't return their regard.
This love story had much potential, but it was unfortunately often put in the shade by Cardross's half-sister Letty's love affair with a certain Mr. Allandale.
I felt bad for him, poor husband, desperately in love with his wife, thinking she married him for the money, and now bothered by a vexatious half-sister who has taken it into her head to marry a penniless man!
While this story is more focussed on the drama of Nell's little money dilemma, there's still just enough relationship conflict to really get a good feel of their love for each other.One of Heyer's novels that feature a newlywed married couple who are still figuring out their rhythm and why they married each other (since the both think that the other married them for either convenience or money).Loved Nell's brother!
In the end, he really isn't such a bad guy!- This book is indeed a little different to some of Heyer's other regency romances in the sense that it focusses on Nell more so than the actual development of the relationship between the main characters.
From that point on I found myself actually quite interested in the story and happy to read the last 40 pages while (and after) I ate my breakfast instead of continuing with my Dexter Season 6 marathon.If I hadn't been reading this for the two challenges I'm pretty sure I would have DNFd it at the point where I stalled for, like, two weeks.
I can't wait to read it, but at the same time I'm trying to put it off because I know it's the last one in the series and it's been the best series I've read in years and I never want the wonderfulness of it to end.
;) I love regencies full of banter and love-hate relationships between the couple right up til the end when they realize they've been ridiculous to think they didn't like the other, but I get super frustrated when the story is about a married couple who absolutely adore each other but are confused by misunderstandings and misconceptions about each other because they refuse to COMMUNICATE!
:P *sigh* I suppose it would have been an extremely short novel if the author had taken my preferences into consideration, so I'll tell you that- since I knew the entire time everything would turn out well (this IS a Heyer!<3)- I was able to relax and enjoy the story.
The fact that she was welcomed by his younger sister saying that she is 'prettier by far than Giles's mistress'.
So Nell tells one lie, then she has to cover it up with another and so on, and her behaviour that is actually embarrassment is seen as coldness and proof that she doesn't love him.
There is a sub-plot with Giles's younger sister Letty which was used to show how naive Nell actually is.
I need more passionate ones.
At least in a romance, I need them to do more than intone a line of text when they think it is necessary.
I worship at the alter of Heyer; I love every single one of her books - but April Lady (along with some of her other regencies) has a special place in my heart.
(Which I love dearly, but probably with less unholiness.) I have to admit, though, that I prefer Nell to Horry (from the Convenient Marriage), and Giles to Rule.
As Nell - Helen - descended from one level of deception to another, my heart hurt alongside hers - especially when Giles - Cardross snipped at her, or looked at her in that terrible, lovely angsty way that people in misunderstandings (misunderstandment?
A worldly man who'd taken many lovers and ruled his estate for years, Cardross never expected to fall in love--but he did, and despite his misgivings about Nell's impecunious and wild family, he swiftly married her.
Meanwhile, Cardross's flighty little sister Letty (who is a mere year younger than Nell herself, but Nell is nevertheless supposed to control her) causes huge amounts of trouble with her desperate but stupid plans to get Mr.Allandale to marry her.This had the makings of a more enjoyable book.
If only there had been more between Nell and Cardross and far, far less of Letty.
The Earl her husband likewise had fallen in love with Nell upon first meeting her.
Dysart Nell's brother had taken full advantage of the Earl's fortune so that had lent credence to that unpleasant theory.
He was very free with his bad advice to his sister.
Lettie the Earl's sister was also willing to pass along her own bad advice.
Nell has been persuaded by her mother to question the Earl's reasons for marrying her.
All this doubt on both Nell and the Earl keeps both parties in a turmoil.
Nell marries the rich Lord Cardross and both have fallen in love at first sight.
However, before the wedding, Nell's mother told her that Cardross wants an heir and wishes to marry into a good family.
So Nell flungs herself into balls and extravagances to avoid her husband.
There are problems of debt in the family and Cardross' sister Letty wants to force him to allow her to marry beneath her station.
There are also certain parts of the book that I can't help but feel are unnecessary filler.
The writing was good and there were moments of levity, but that didn't save the book for me.

This was a cute light read. The book doesn't have much of a plot, and you know what's going to happen before the end, but somehow we just love it anyway.
Georgette Heyer is always a fun romp. Delightful characters and situations. Marred only by an unfortunate anti-semitic trope (Mr. King, a "cent per cent" money lender is called "Jew King" repeatedly). I would like to think that, were she writing today, Heyer would either include an "authors note" on the unfortunate historical accuracy of such utterances or would not use the slurs at all.
Snowballing problems due to stupidity, fear, and dishonesty didn’t entertain me, but I enjoyed the dialogue and the narrator.REVIEWER’S OPINION:I did not enjoy reading about the heroine Nell.
The mother told Nell that Giles only married her for convenience, would never love her, would always have a mistress, and Nell should not show her true feelings or any insecurities.
From the stupidity of youth Nell believed her and felt she could not go to Giles with her problems, and she never let him know that she loved him.
Giles loved Nell, but he never told her.
Lord Cardross is madly in love with his wife but fears she only married him because he is very rich and her family of gamesters was very much in need of funds.When the story starts Helen (Nell) has incurred in a great deal of debt not only to help her brother, Dysart, but also with the dress makers.
At the same time, finding her behaviour odd Cardross starts to believe she just married him so she can pay the family's debts and feels nothing for him.Heyer always writes fun lines and vivid characters but although I enjoyed the book I think Nell needed to sparkle a bit more, say like Leonie in These Old Shades or Horatia in The Convenient Marriage.
I started with The Foundling and went on to April Lady.As with The Foundling, one star deducted for the main female lead.
This time the star off is because of Nell's wild mood swings.
It doesn't seem to have been done as a matter of character growth, it just seems to be...not quite as well written or consistent as most of Heyer's characters.Cardross is really rather delightful, and is one of the first male leads I've read who, while being absolutely horrible when he's jealous and angry (for actually understandable/good reasons) apologises unreservedly in the same scene.
As wives we can relate to Lady Cardross when she spends too much money on herself and her wild-hair brother, and then tries to hide this from her generous husband.
But the dissembling (lying) the ensues to keep this hidden becomes the major plot device, and it gets a little tiresome.
The secondary plot of the Cardross younger sister trying to marry beneath her also tells much about the expectations of the time.
The major love relationship between Lady Cardross and her husband could have been developed much more effectively.
Compare Lady Cardross to Heyer's Grand Sophy, and the weakness of this novel is revealed.
This one was fun, but sadly more forgettable than my favorite Heyer stories.
It utilizes one of Heyer's favorite plots - that of miscommunication and misunderstandings, as well as similar to Bath Tangle that I just finished, spends the majority of the plot with the two main lovers separated.
while I thought the characters were fun and enjoyable, there was too little face time with Cardross.
Also, Nell's semi-wastrel brother and his best friend seem modeled along similar lines to Pen and his partner-in-crime in A Convenient Marriage, so it felt mainly like familiar territory with a bit of a new spin.
Nell married her husband a barely a year ago and is now in charge of his ward who is just a year or two younger than she is.
Letty is wild, headstrong and desperately in love.
She will do anything to marry her beloved.
Nell is trying to win the love of her husband, but she can't until she settles a problem of a debt.
Why I started this book: I love listening to Heyer's audiobooks, they are a guaranteed pleasant book.Why I finished this one: Except for this one.
I was so mad at Letty the entire time.
2.5 An overall enjoyable (and typical) Heyer plot, but does not rank amongst my favorites. The lead couple suffer from a lack of communication, and the heroine (frustratingly) digs herself deeper into trouble with her refusal to tell her husband the simple truth. The secondary couple's plight (aside from the significance assigned to it by a melodramatic cousin) becomes tiresome. I was leaning towards 2-stars, but I liked the last few chapters in which the whole situation dissolved into farce.

Library Kindle e-book
I so love these books, with their wonderful characters who somehow manage, despite the heavily prescribed behavior of Regency aristocrats, to be delightfully individual, smart, quirky, and wholly relateable.
The language is precise, eloquent, and true to historical context, and the glimpse of a particular society is the perfect context for the enactment of personal relationships.
Every word is so specific to its meaning and context, and as a 13-year-old reading these, I picked up perfect grammar without even realizing it.
These are among the few books that I loved when young and still love when old.
Romanzo graziosamente frivolo, lettura leggerissima, ma è comunque piacevole seguire gli intrighi amorosi di una giovane nobile viziata che cerca, al di là di qualsiasi buon senso, di sposare il suo amato povero e forse neanche tanto adatto a lei.
Although love is a big issue throughout the book, there isn't a lot of interaction between the main character and her husband/love interest.
G. Wodehouse book that I read just before it, not merely because they were both very British books, but because a single misunderstanding is built on and creates a series of hijinks that in the end, come to a riotous conclusion.
Only this book felt more innocent - in the Wodehouse, the characters were all too eager to throw each other under the bus.
For the most part, the book centers on a single problem and the main character's attempts to solve that.
This book was just as fresh to me and entertaining as the first time I read it!Lady Cardross has a problem.
Unfortunately Nell Cardross has overlooked a bill due for a dress she purchased and she doesn't know how to tell her husband that the Chantilly lace dress she bought has not yet been paid for...Dysart, Nell's brother, has been saved more than once out of his gambling debts by Lady Cardross.
They only act like lovers toward each other at the very end, and Giles doesn't save her from anything except her bills.
It's more a humorous historical.The story revolves around Nell getting into debt because she isn't used to having so much money and it seemed limitless.
Instead, Nell lies, then gets nervous, and Giles gets suspicious and acts coldly toward her.
Yet even when Nell learns her lesson about lying, she immediately does it again.If anyone but Heyer had written the story, I would have thrown the book across the room.
