https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16185.The_Wise_Woman
I'm a huge Philippa Gregory fan, so I don't know how the same author wrote this as wrote The Other Boleyn Girl and all those other excellent historical romances. This book really sucked! If I hadn't been out of town and away from a library, and if I'd brought anything else with me to read, I wouldn't have even finished it! And I'm a real stickler for finishing books, even bad ones, so that says it all right there. This book was really awful.
Is it possible to give less than one star? I think this may well be the worst book I've ever read all the way to the end. The "heroine" of the story was so selfish and unconcerned with anything but her own material pleasure that I swear I only finished the book in hopes that I'd get to see her die a brutal death at the end.
Set during beginnings of the English Reformation in the Tudor Era up in Durham County England (Northern Counties) this story follows the life of Alys as she manipulates and is manipulated by people and events.
Alys initially is a semi-sympathetic main character pushed to and fro by the conditions, events, and people of the time in her own small way - being a small non-important person in terms of the "world stage".
This book is remarkable only in its utter awfulness.
I've read probably half a dozen of Gregory's books and have always enjoyed them.
Usually fun, fluffy, and easy-to-read, her books serve as a nice palate cleanser after a particularly intense read.
I honestly believe that Gregory must have been going through some sort of crisis as a writer when she wrote this one.
She mocks herself as a writer, her genre, and her readers.Not a single character in this book was likeable; in fact, they were all despicable.
Why would anyone want to read this drivel?
Then she denied even knowing her loving second "mother" figure even as this second woman was sentenced to death by fire.To be sure, I don't know what it's like to be driven by self-preservation under the constant threat of death by hanging (being a witch) or by burning at the stake (being a heretic).
I would, with some hesitation, but ultimately, this book left me unsatisfied, with the ending, with Alys, and with the fate to two mother figures.
What the fuck did I read?
I have read almost all of Philippa Gregory’s other novels and I am now going back to some of her “older” books.
Finding The Wise Woman, I was excited to read it but after the first few pages I was utterly disappointed.
It was a struggle just to complete the book and I always finish books no matter how good or bad.
The main character was utterly unsympathetic, as were most of the other characters.
Over all a terrible, horrible, no good very bad book.
Very nicely written, intriguing book. I love absolutely every book written by Phillipa Gregory. She writes from the woman perspective and she seems to be a medium and a very good psychologist to be able to transfer so many feelings in her writings. Is like she was there and is telling the true story. Amazing!
The book is a grisly tale about dark powers and desires.
Eventually, Alys and Hugo do meet again for she once again leaves Morach and becomes a sort of minister to his father, helping him with his letter writings, etc.
Attracted to Hugo regardless of his murderous past, Alys starts practicing Witchcraft to rid him of his wife Catherine.
Her spells start to work all to well and things get way out of hand and beyond her control.
Philippa Gregory brings out a hair-raising horror and suspense novel that was so brilliantly written, it blew me away.
In fact she's a despicable young thing who lives in a convent for the love of it's good food and shelter.
Then she betrays the Mother Superior who wasn't dead after all.An exciting page turner which could have been shorter.
It seemed like the author kept saying the same things over and over again.Finally redemption comes on the very last page when she flings herself upon the Mother Superior's fire (who's being burned as a heretic).
She never finished the scene where the wax doll demons were seen walking towards the castle!I would love for my book club ladies to read and analyze this one.
I've heard some people say that they were bored with parts of this book, but if you aren't aware of Tudor history, then it's bound to be boring to you lol.
For example: Hugo is Henry, unable to father a son on anyone so he plans to set his wife aside for an heir.
Catherine is Catherine of Aragon, set aside by her husband and forced to watch as he courts other women who bring about her downfall.
And Alys "Sister Ann" is Ann Boleyn, who is insanely ambitious and will do anything in her power to keep the kings love and conceive a son.
So, I guess I finished it out of a deep desire to see if Alys gets what she deserves, in the end.
Unfortunately, I picked up this book because I love most of what Phillipa Gregory writes.
Yes, I did read the Wideacre trilogy, and was disgusted w/ book 1.
Books 2 & 3 are much better, in my opinion.
Alys can't make up her mind about anything.
Does she love Hugo or hate him?
Truly, the ONLY character in the entire book with a shred of any redeeming quality is Mother Hildebrand, and she is treated horribly by Alys and others.
I was disappointed in this book after The Other Boleyn Girl. The main character was utterly unsympathetic, as were most of the other characters. As a result, it was hard to get invested in any of their outcomes. In addition, it lacked the complicated politics of Gregory's other work, but carried on some of the same themes in a thin echo of what I know that she can do.
I have read other books about witches in this period and they were much better as they did not resort to fantastical elements - although I suppose that could have been considered to be in Alys' mind.Alys joins a nunnery to escape the poverty of her life on the moor with her foster mother, Morach, the local wise woman with whom she lives as an outcast, but she soon finds herself thrown back into the world when Henry VIII's wreckers destroy her sanctuary.
Driven to desperation by her desire, she summons the most dangerous powers Morach has taught her, but soon the passionate triangle of Alys, Hugo, and Catherine begins to explode, launching them into uncharted sexual waters.
I liked the setting and the premise, and especially liked how there was a little, but not a lot, of magic.
It was a normal world just had some magic in it.I was surprised at how little time passed in the book.
I would've liked to know her thought process a little more in those last moments.It was a page turner and because of that and it being just the kind of setting/world and premise that I like, I give it 4 stars.
I want the old version, where the perverted little heroine falls in love with the guy who put a leash and collar on her mom after sacking their castle, not where the heroine is a nun!I want to read the original novel, dammit.I had noticed that Philippa Gregory seemed ashamed of this book, never listing it along with her historical novels.
All the really nasty perverted stuff is still in there in the middle, so I guess Ms Gregory wasn't ashamed of it as much as she just wanted to make it more historical.Darn, now I'll have to track down the original version just to prove that I didn't imagine the whole thing.
Through much struggle and perserverance I finished this book but wow what a ridiculous story line.
I kept waiting for it to all fit together and become a remarkable book (much like Gregory's other novels).
It was just so far fetched that it made it completely silly - not to mention the story written to a little over 500 pages could have been told that in have the pages.What a waste of trees!I will read Gregory again but this was a shocker of a disappointment - I wonder how she could have written this.Not to mention the characters where completely the carbon copies of the 'typical' king, queen etc etc.
somewhat enthralled with the historical fiction and the witchcraft angle; I've never before read Gregory but she's gotten glowing reviews from people whose opinion I respect.
but I am also one of those people who are loathe to cast aside a book before it's finished.
and it's TORTUOUS to read the whole story of a character who's a complete idiot.
I HAD to finish reading this book because I really wanted her to die.
And yet, I don't think there was one single character in this story I liked, connected with, or felt something for.
Hugo, selfish, egotistical, spoiled-brat, rogue...
I'm surprised that Philippa Gregory, who's one of my favorite authors, has written something that...
In fact, there are no likeable characters in the book, and it seems that they spend all of their time eating, drinking and- excuse my French- fucking.
Well, this book looks like Gregory's attempt at writing something like 50 shades of Grey.
Like, seriously, the sex scenes are horrid, there's nothing sexy or romantic about them.Some parts of this book are weak attempts at horror, including dark magic and voodoo dolls, and some of the resulting scenes are simply repulsive, with the birth-giving scene on top of everything else.
A waste of time- and a badly written one.
She played with the facts and fictionalized them somewhat, but in "The Wise Woman" she goes hog wild with her imagination.
That doesn't make it a badly-written book.
Every day I looked forward to reading more, and when I got near the last section I tried to slow down so it wouldn't end.
Since I just finished the book last night, however, further comment about the ending would be hasty on my part, too.
:)Oh, yeah: If you don't want to read any sex scenes, particularly somewhat kinky ones, this book is not for you.
Dark, erotic and beautifully crafted.
At least they deserve each other.Gregory has come up in prior reviews where I talked about the irritating habit of writers to present BDSM practices as “bad people having bad sex.” Granted, everyone in this story who is sexually active is on some level bad for other reasons, but the searing eroticism I spoke of before, while very fun in the beginning, gets downright distasteful—not only sadomasochism but also bisexuality are played with and handled poorly, dare I even say disrespectfully.
I mean, I had just finished the Tudors series Gregory wrote (which was fabulous, by the way) and I wanted to read something less dependant on other books before I started the next series I have (the "Wideacre" triology).
Alys finds her way back to the shack she shared with an unloving caregiver and her downfall seems complete; I ached for her.
However, the way Gregory advanced the story completely ruined Alys for me.
There were good parts of the book, but the majority of the story, as well as the I-can't-think-of-a-better-way-to-end-things ending, overpowered them.
I like to cheer for my main characters when I read a book, but in this I couldn't.
I kept reading hoping that Alys would turn a one-eighty and abandon the dark arts that she started dabbling in.
Instead I was disappointed as she continued in them and became a vile, evil woman willing to do anything for the "love", more like lust, of a pig of a man.
In the end, I have to admit that I am curious how this book ends.
I hate hoping that Alys gets it in the end, but there is no other way that would be right and just.
Sure, every once in a while I might have felt a pinch of pity for each character, even Morach, but for the most part, they are all playing a treacherous game in a world where the only way to the top is outright betrayal.
What's not to like?The only complaint I had was how the book ended.
But the more I thought about it, there was no other way to end this book.
There was no where else for these character to go but where they ended up.
With a cast full of villains, no one can truly win.
Alys, the "heroine" of the novel, is a novice at the abbey who takes off running, leaving the other nuns behind to burn.
She takes shelter at the hovel where she was raised as a foundling by the wise woman Morach, but soon finds herself summoned to the castle of the local lord.
Early in the book, the skills of wise women such as Morach and Alys are attributed to a talent for herbs and intuition.
However, soon Alys is summoning the devil and making little wax voodoo dolls to control those who have power over her.
And while this book does take place during the Tudor era, it’s not part of the series.
And I’m sad to say it didn’t.I’m not sure if it’s because I had high hopes and it let me down, or I just didn’t fall in love with the character, but I just could not connect with this book.The novel follows Alys, a young woman who used to be a nun but is now working as a wise woman.
I didn’t really like Alys as a character.
Shortly after Alys has taken her vows, the nunnery is raided and torched by Lord Hugo acting under the orders of King Henry VIII.
When the old lord of the area, Lord Hugo's father, becomes sick he sends for the wise woman from the moors - not Morach, but Alys.
From this point on it becomes the familiar love triangle - Alys falls in love with Lord Hugo (who burned down the nunnery).
Morach warns her that in order to turn Hugo towards her it will take more than Alys may want to give up.
Alys grew up on the moor with a harsh foster-mother called Morach, the local wise woman.
The historical research is sound and convincing, and while I am not a great fan of magical realism any book set in the medieval era must acknowledge the common beliefs of that time.This is not a feel-good story.
It suggests everything in Alys' world is a sham - magic, life, love, faith, and family.
But one of the great joys of reading is the ability to close the book at any point and find yourself back in the twenty-first century.Especially if you are a Wise Woman!
Alys was drawn to the better life she could see for herself there and joined enthusiastically, considering the Mother Superior as a maternal figure.But Henry VIII had different plans for the abbeys, and the young lord Hugo and his men set fire to the abbey, destroying it, and leaving Alys on the run back to the old wise woman.
As the intrigue continues, Alys finds that she has lost her soul, and isn't sure whether she is willing to do what it takes to get it back.A story of suspicion, legends, and politics, at a time where women were only useful as mothers, workers, and sexual objects, this novel brings history to life.At times it seemed like Alys was sinking into madness and desperation as she yearned for a life of wealth, love, and luxury.
