https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/108615.Offshore
The main characters are Nenna (only 32, but with daughters Martha, 12, and Tilda, 6); Maurice, a young gay man making ends meet as a prostitute; Willis, an old marine painter, whose boat is in need of sprucing up; boat-proud Woodrow (Woodie); and Richard, a natural leader, ex-navy, now working in insurance, with the biggest, smartest boat.
(Meanwhile, Martha gets friendly with a 16-year old German, Heinrich, staying for 24 hours, as a friend of a friend of Nenna's sister.) She hoped to spend the night and win him back, but things don't go well, and she walks home, where Richard is waiting (his wife, Laura, has recently left him properly) and takes her out in a dinghy, before returning to the Reach.
I can't rate a book so beautifully written with just one star, so two.
But if I was rating it on the interesting plot, the fascinating characters I wanted to know more about, the unusual setting of houseboats on the Thames or just sheer enjoyment of passing a few hours in another world, I would have given it 1 star which equals boring book about people (apart from the children, I liked them, wild little things that they were) I couldn't care less about.I have read about three other of Penelope Fitzgerald's books.
A friend asked me if I'd like a book or chocolates.
Some of the people appear rather normal to high functioning in this 1960s world (Richard) while others appear to be near drowning as they try to find a way to survive (Nenna, Maurice, Willis) while Nenna's daughters Tilda and Martha are caught somewhere in between.The book is the struggle--the pull of the river vs the cry of others on the land to move away from the water; giving up the dream (or dreaming) for the adult world (reality perhaps).
The exactness and offhandedness of her de-romanticising portrait of the river life reflect her own stint on a Thames barge, and this autobiographical realism affords the story unsettling and soggy emotional depths under its crisp, witty surface.After Angela Carter's glorious romp Nights at the Circus, for example, this book feels so calm, so sure-footed, with all its adverbs absolutely to purpose and, as on Richard's boat Lord Jim, everything in its place.
But while Richard complains of not being able to get his feelings across easily, Fitzgerald is a virtuoso of economical expression, somehow finding time for six-year-old Tilda's second-hand daydreams and a plethora of colourful minor characters who briefly enter or impinge upon the rather isolated river community.
Once, I embarked on a project to read all the Man Booker Prize winners, and didn't get very far.
I started at the beginning and started making assumptions, like all Booker Prize winners are about the empire.
And since I've read them closely together I can see some similarities - a cast of characters in a specific place that dictates (or allows for) some of the behavior.I liked it very much, but was distracted with family stress when I read it, and probably won't say more about it until I get a chance to read it again.ETA: I'm reading from a forthcoming work by Edmund White, and he says this:"[Fitzgerald] may have been born in grandeur, but her husband was an alcoholic who drank up every penny, was convicted for stealing checks, and lost his job.
"It's right for us to live where we do," says Maurice, "between land and water."The Thames floating slums are still a thingSo they subsist at the margins, in limbo.
They're held together, for as long as they can be, by Richard, a fussy and relatively competent old Navy guy who imagines that all of this can be fixed."Nocturne: Blue and Gold, Old Battersea Bridge" by Whistler, 1870sPenelope Fitzgerald drew on her own experience living on an old Thames barge that sank right out from under herself - twice.
Her late husband, like Nenna's, was not a success.I found out about her from a total stranger on Twitter who showed up on my feed saying,
It describes their lives with insight, with compassion and without criticism.On closing the book, I compared where we had started to where we ended.
There are too many characters for such a short book.
I think this is what has bothered me most.The audiobook has three narrators—Stephanie Racine, Allan Hollinghurst and Jot Davies—the last being the one who reads Fitzgerald’s story and thus the most important.
Stephanie Racine, the advisory editor, narrates a very short preface written by biographer Hermione Lee, she being the author of Penelope Fitzgerald: A Life.
It is written and read by Allan Hollinghurst.
As some of you may know, a few years ago I set myself the challenge of reading all the books that had ever won the booker prize.
Overall there have been far more that I have liked than not.So then, Offshore by Penelope Fitzgerald which won in 1979 was my latest Booker read.
Although she had become a native of the boats, and pitied the tideless and ratless life of the Chelsea inhabitants, she respected the water and knew that one could die within sight of the Embankment.”The characters relationships are altered by the changes in their circumstances, the world of this disparate little community is under threat.
While this is similar in style and elegiac tone to The Bookshop, I preferred the latter.
Perhaps if I’d read this first, my preference would be switched.
I read it twice in a matter of days which indicates a 5-star read, but I’m rating it a 4.75 to show my preference for the other.During my first read, I missed some things in relation to the character of Maurice (in my defense, I was very tired).
The main theme, though, is of those who seem to belong nowhere definite, not being of the land or the sea; of those who are uncomfortable with ‘normal’ life, who can’t adapt.
Ultimately, it comes down to survival, or not.
Es una novela corta pero exquisita, cargada de mucha vida, drama, y miseria, contando la vida de un 
At the beginning of an outing in a dinghy with Richard, Nenna thinks “…reality seemed to have lost its accustomed hold, just as the day wavered uncertainly between night and morning.” Later, “their sense of control wavered, ebbed, and changed places.”Hermione Lee’s recent biography Penelope Fitzgerald: A Life provides a wealth of background and insight into the book.
Reading that chapter right after I finished this book greatly enhanced my appreciation and understanding of it.Fitzgerald herself, back in the early 60’s, lived for two years on a houseboat called Grace (the subject of the Dedication: “For Grace / and all who sailed in her”), in the same place as the boats in the story, on Chelsea Reach.
I felt like I was on a bus ride eavesdropping on multiple conversations, each interesting and incomplete.
You may not know what will happen to these people – the precocious daughters, their mother who’s emotionally compromised, the responsible man, the intuitive man, and the romantically clueless man – but you’ve had a glimpse of what they’re about, their eccentricities.
Despite its short length, you don’t end up feeling short-changed.
Part of the appeal for me is the setting.
I knew the streets and bridges in Chelsea where some of the action took place.
'"Communitas"...has positive values associated with it; good fellowship, spontaneity, warm contact...unhierarchised, undifferentiated social relations'.Seeing this made me really appreciate this very slim novel of the people living on 5 mostly rickety barges, moored on Battersea Reach during the heyday of Swinging London.
The people are from various walks of life and social classes, and the commonality this odd assortment has is day-to-day life, trials, tribulations and hoped for triumphs of living neither here nor there, neither on land nor sea, neither in the old societal structure or the new.
This book and Nenna are in part autobiographical for Fitzgerald who lived on a barge in Battersea Reach for a couple of years.
Penelope Fitzgerald spent several years living on a barge on Battersea Reach of the Thames River when her family had financial difficulties.
Those experiences--including the sinking of their boat--served as the inspiration for Offshore: A Novel, a short spare novel that won the Booker Prize in 1979.The book has wonderful characterizations of a group of misfits living on the houseboats.
Their neighbor, marine painter Willis, is trying to sell his boat before it sinks.
There is minimal plot as Nenna tries to reconcile with her husband, and Willis attempts to sell his boat.
A wonderful, short work, superficially simple but multilayered with many alluded-to themes underneath, and populated with quirky characters who don’t quite fit into London society – they don’t live on land, nor exactly at sea either, but on a barge community permanently moored in the Thames.
Fitzgerald’s writing (here at least, this being the first of hers that I’ve read) is witty and pokes gentle fun at her characters, in a way that reminds me of E.M. Forster.The story revolves around Nenna, a Canadian in her early-thirties but living in London for nearly half her life (so neither a local nor a foreigner).
Offshore: To Be or not to Be? "che mena il vento, e che batte la pioggia, e che s'incontran con si aspre lingue""whom the wind drives, or whom the rain beats, or those who clash with such bitter tongues"Canto XI,Inferno, Dante Alighieri Epigraph, Offshore  “There isn’t one kind of happiness, there’s all kinds. Decision is torment for anyone with imagination. When you decide, you multiply the things you might have done and now never can.”-Nenna James, Offshore, by Penelope Fitzgerald     Offshore
Offshore: To Be or not to Be?
"che mena il vento, e che batte la pioggia, e che s'incontran con si aspre lingue""whom the wind drives, or whom the rain beats, or those who clash with such bitter tongues"Canto XI,Inferno, Dante Alighieri
Epigraph, Offshore
“There isn’t one kind of happiness, there’s all kinds.
Decision is torment for anyone with imagination.
When you decide, you multiply the things you might have done and now never can.”-Nenna James, Offshore, by Penelope Fitzgerald
Offshore, First Ed., Harper Collins, United Kingdom, 1979
House Boats on Battersea Reach, The River Thames
A child "mudlarking on the Thames
She has a near miss with a predatory man (or maybe he’s just lonely) before a cheery taxi driver gives her a lift back (for free) to the boat where she lives with her daughters, and there's an unexpected but pleasant end to the night.
I was so lifted by the writing, its nuances, its comedy, its finely honed observations, that getting off the train and walking to surrounded-by-flyovers Perry Barr campus, streaming past One-Stop shopping Centre in the rain with the disgruntled commuters seemed a delight I never wanted to end by getting into work and having to put it all out of my mind.
Right from the beginning, several interesting, eccentric characters are introduced, and they live in an intriguing, unusual place, houseboats on the Thames.
But for me at least, the book fails to deliver in many ways.
(I say "for me at least" because the novel is praised on Goodreads, and it won the Booker Prize in 1979.)The shortcomings: The plot is obscure and thin, close to nonexistent.
So I didn't enjoy this book at all, pleased only that it is just 141 pages long.
And for me at least, I don't agree with the widespread praise or the prize.
There is an old saying that in stories, only two things happen in the beginning of said story: someone comes to town, or someone leaves town.
Here, Fitzgerald switches things around and tells us, up front, who might be going where, and why.
I enjoyed the economy of words demonstrated here in "Offshore" as not a word is wasted.
I read this author's "Bookshop" and could only give it two stars but I thought I would try this "Booker Prize" winner.
I liked "Offshore" better than "Bookshop" and I think I will try at least one more by this author.
Penelope Fitzgerald hakkında ișittiğim olumlu yorumlara katılıyorum fakat etkileyici bir tanışma ve aman aman akılda kalıcı bir okuma süreci olmadı benim açımdan.Salapurya Mahallesi'nde Thames Nehri üzerinde yașayan insanların hayatına konuk oluyoruz, yazar bu yașamı bizzat deneyimlediği için gerçekçi yansıtabilmiș ama hepsi bu. Ne bir alıntı ne bir içselleștirebildiğim karakter.Kitabın ödüllü olduğunu yazarın hayatını okurken öğrendim ama ne bileyim, benim yıldızım pek barışmadı sanki.Yine de yazarın Mavi Çiçek kitabını okuyacağım sanırım. Hemen kestirip atmak bize yakışmaz.(ATTI)
Possible spoiler alert?‘Offshore’ is about life on the Thames in the close knit community of river folk who live in barges, some more water worthy than others.
From my recollection of Dickens’ novels I don’t recall a rent boy, but if there had been one I’m sure he would have resembled Maurice, one of the characters “offshore”; something of the ‘Artful Dodger’ about him.
Like the only other Fitgerald novel I’ve read, At Freddies, Offshore is very autobiographical and Nenna with her two children, who together live on ‘Grace’, are presumably drawn from the author’s own experiences of living on The Thames with her 2 children and apart from her husband.

Penelope Fitzgerald is one of those writers whose books I always think I'm going to like and then find out that I just don't.
And every so often, I read one of them and confirm that I'm not a fan.
The latest Fitzgerald novel I read was Offshore, since it promised to be quite short.
And although I found (some of) the characters quite interesting (particularly the two girls), the novel itself failed to engage me.
I don't know.
I just know that, despite its minimal length, Offshore was quite the slog to read!
I get it, that Penelope Fitzgerald writes wonderfully subtle prose with this sort of economy and restraint that's like a virtuoso NOT playing notes, but the plot of this one just made it dull and dragging for me. Don't see why this won the Booker. (I probably say that too often to keep reading Booker books, but I'm on a roll, and I do what I want.)
Other reviewers have spent some good ink on this, so I'll just let their voices stand. As for me: one word: Bleh! ... oh, and a few more words. Booker Prize??? Really????? What was Booker smoking at the time?
The advice of writing books is to have nothing happen that doesn't move the story forward, but we have Heinrich van Furstenfeld's sudden, short appearance.
I just couldn't help liking the book, even though.The book is about a collection of boat owners moored at the Reach on the Thames people.
There is Richard (and Laura) in a converted minesweeper - the only boat that can be described as a houseboat really; Nenna and her two girls; Woodie; Maurice; and Willis.It is not very clear how much time passes during the course of the book, but a lot happens.
Or perhaps a peek into a family picture album (not a conventional family but rather a motley collection of marginalized people for whom the group constitute a surrogate family).
The arc of these people's lives is also in a state of suspension; their apartness from their contemporary Londoners pervades the narrative at every turn, as does the ephemeral nature of their existence.
While the river is their domain, it is also gradually consuming the vessels in which they abide.For me, the most engaging character was the resourceful, self-possessed eleven-year-old Martha who "had forgotten for some time the necessity for personal happiness".
I've previously read and very much admired Penelope Fitzgerald's novels The Blue Flower (https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...), The Gate of Angels (https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...) and The Bookshop (https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...).
Offshore is set in the rather eccentric world of houseboats in Battersea Reach, and is, like The Bookshop, based on her own experience of doing so as a child.
He stopped before describing himself." The received critical verdict on Offshore is that it isn't Fitzgerald's strongest work - right winner of the Booker, wrong book (see also Ian McEwan, Howard Jacobson and others).
If the totality of the novel is written in a too secure fashion, it is not surprising that the story takes place on the Battersea with a group of somewhat lost, Bohemian, barge-dwelling souls.
The characters are neither land-dwellers nor sea-dwellers; they are in between - the middle - fluctuating like their barges in utter confusion or utter certainty.
The rigorous and hard-edged juxtapositional phrasing is almost like the character mentality: grim, intense, uncertain, twisting, sometimes amorphous.
Three toasters sailed away like spindrift in the gale still blowing hard north-west." (P.139-140) The minds of some of these characters appears to be in prevalent disarray.
It's like reading a beautifully written but ultimately cold love letter knowing that who wrote it doesn't want to let me know half of what she really feels.
And yet, I think that I should try to stay on my own, far from your novels, for a little while.Let's talk about 'Offshore'.When I read what you wrote, Penelope, I can't help but falling in awe with you.
And don't let me even start with the posh but gallant Viennese teenager stranded on a barge and loving every minute of his Swinging London experience.Moreover, I've found the idea of calling each Battersea Reach settler with his/her own given name and - sometimes - with the one of their houseboat over the course of the entire novel rather confusing.
