https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/821380.Myths_to_Live_By
This is the best introduction to Joseph Campbell, and very accessible. If you are new to his work, this would be the ideal place to start.
Now, over 30 years later, at a much different stage of my life, I have read it again and, although it is a cliché to say it, I am not the same person now than the one that read it 30 years ago and it has receded even further in time from the date of its publication; yet most of the things he says about what our world was becoming then seem very prophetic of what our world is becoming now.'Myths to Live By' is also, coincidentally echoed in another extensive interview he made with Moyers earlier in the decade of the 80's and so many of the nuggets he utters in the interviews have equivalents in this book, a collection of talks he gave between 1958 and 1971 at the Cooper Union Forum, essentially a descendant of the Chautauqua series of the 19th century.Among these nuggets are the following:•	Most of us are familiar with the Biblical Garden of Eden, the Tree of Knowledge whose fruit Adam and Eve were warned by God to not eat and the serpent from the Tree that tempted Eve and, in turn, Adam to eat that fruit.
مواجهه با جوزف کمبل را میتوان در شمار ضروریترین رویدادها در زندگی آدمهای این عصر قلمداد کرد. کافی است تصور کنی، بعد از آشنایی با کتب مقدس ادیان ابراهیمی و مطالعه ادیان هندی، چینی، ژاپنی و کمی تفصیلیتر بودیسم، پس از خواندن درباره فلسفه، تاریخ و اسطورهشناسی یونان و تمدنهای مصر و ایران و بینالنهرین، در کنار تورق تاریخ کلیسا، قرون وسطا و عصر مدرن، پرسهزدن در لابلای نوشتههای فلاسفه و شاعران قرن نوزدهم و بیستم اروپا و آمریکا، نقلقولهای مختصر از حکیمان و عارفان شرقی و مسلمان و محققان مطالعات تطبیقی ادی
کافی است تصور کنی، بعد از آشنایی با کتب مقدس ادیان ابراهیمی و مطالعه ادیان هندی، چینی، ژاپنی و کمی تفصیلی‌تر بودیسم، پس از خواندن درباره فلسفه، تاریخ و اسطوره‌شناسی یونان و تمدن‌های مصر و ایران و بین‌النهرین، در کنار تورق تاریخ کلیسا، قرون وسطا و عصر مدرن، پرسه‌زدن در لابلای نوشته‌های فلاسفه و شاعران قرن نوزدهم و بیستم اروپا و آمریکا، نقل‌قول‌های مختصر از حکیمان و عارفان شرقی و مسلمان و محققان مطالعات تطبیقی ادیان‌ و نیز ادیبان و نویسندگان نامدار غربی، سروکله‌زدن با میراث غول‌های روان‌شناسی چون فروید و یونگ و فروم و آدلر و انسان‌شناسانی که تقریباً هرگونه شبه‌انسانی در جنگل‌های آمازون، صحراهای آفریقا، جزایر استرالیا و اسکیموهای قطب شمال را بررسیده‌اند، مرور زندگینامه ماجراجویان، مخترعان و مصلحان اجتماعی قرن اخیر، کاوش در کشفیات جدید باستان‌شناسی، زیست‌شناسی، نجوم، ریاضیات و کیهان‌شناسی و مشاهده شاهکارهای کوبریک و جنگ ستارگان کامرون، قدم‌زدن در مساجد و کلیساها و معابد سرتاسر دنیا و آگاهی از سرتیتر اخبار و گلچین برنامه‌های تلویزیونی مشهور دنیا بخواهی در میان این همه حرف و حدیث و ماجرا به زندگی خودت و آینده‌های بچه‌هایت فکر کنی و به اندکی همدلی و راهنمایی نیاز داشته باشی یا دست‌کم موضوع یا روشی برای تمرکز پیدا کنی...
Nothing is more corrupting and psychically damaging than trying to fit a modern sensibility into an archaic mental structure.He does a great job of explaining why the mythic stories of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam no longer breathe meaning into most people's present day lives, and the danger inherent in taking these stories out of context and as literal truth in a cross-culturally colliding world."On our planet itself all dividing horizons have been shattered.
Knyga apie istorijas, kurias mes pasakojame ir kurias mums pasakoja taip dažnai, kad pradedame pamiršti, koks buvo pirminis jų atsiradimo tikslas, ir nematome, kaip jos paveikia mūsų suvokimą, mąstymą ir savęs vaizdą.
Knyga parašyta iš radijo paskaitų ciklo, skirto kuo platesniam ir įvairesniam klausytojų ratui, tad pavyzdžiai gyvenimiški (mums gal ir kiek istoriški - paskaitos skaitytos pirmojo išsilaipinimo Mėnulyje laikotarpiu) ir suprantami.Ir čia nėra Bėgančios su vilkais variantas, priešistorė ar kas panašaus - J.
Campbell nors ir kabina psichologinius momentus, šioje knygoje daugiau istorikas ir sociologas, padedantis suprasti, kodėl visuomenė galvojo ir gyveno taip, kaip gyveno, ir kodėl toks gyvenimas keičiasi.
A friend of mine recommended Joseph Campbell to me a while back, and I never got a chance to check him out until this book randomly fell into my lap at the bookstore I work at.
In this book, there are several different chapters that explore several interesting aspects of mythology, such as the one that ties the study of myths with treating schizophrenia; or how the lunar landings has changed the landscape of human interaction forever.
I will definitely be reading more of Campbell, and I suggest anyone with even a passing interest in religion, mythology, or psychology give him a read as well.
Mitologijos tyrinėtojo knyga apie mito atsiradimą, keitimąsi ir poveikį XXI a. žmogui. Perskaitę knygą sužinosite kokie yra krikščionybės ir kitų religijų panašumai, kodėl mylintis žmogus patiria mitų įtaką, kodėl karas įtakoja mito atsiradimą ir kaip karo ir taikos sugretinimas atsispindi JAV herbe ir daug kt. Įdomių dalykų.
Whether it's human sacrifice understood in plant-based communities that owed their survival to the life-death-life cycle of the natural world, or the modern day's strain to reconcile our stories of godly creation with the evolutionary evidence among us, Campbell convincingly argues that our myths have always come from the truths of the world we live among.
Campbell's almost childish delight at the prospect shook me back into the wonder at the universe that I too often forget.Packed with fascinating information, ambitiuous scope, and true intelligence, these essays tell stories about stories.
My favorite was the chapter on mythologies of war and peace, as I felt he clearly laid out the similarities and differences between various religions on that topic.Overall though, Campbell seems to come to conclusions that are unjustified by the data.
In both these cases Campbell endorses the eastern view (this comes across most clearly in the final chapter Envoy: No More Horizons).
Campbell's faith is in the progression of humanity, a progression with "no horizon" (266) that will continue forever in the future.
Campbell's work is some of the most important knowledge a modern contemporary person can have - knowledge that helps bring a deep understanding of the fundamental differences (and similarities) between the world's cultures, religions, mythologies, arts, philosophies, worldviews, starting with the essential differences between what constitutes Occidental cultures -v Oriental cultures and ancient from modern.
Myths to Live By is an essential collection of his essays that will enlighten and bring deeper understanding and appreciation for the many ways culture divides and unites us.
One of the first comparative religion texts I ever read. And, yes, Campbell is not really a comparative religion author, but, along with Frazier's The Golden Bough and Hero with a Thousand Faces, it provided me with enough tips (and ammunition) to smart down the dumb fundies in my college classes....
Mythology, correctly understood, provides an insight into the human experience in ways the modern western worldview never will.He traces ancient occidental and oriental mythologies and parses out the truth of myth from religion.
"I like to think of the year 1492 as marking the end--or at least the beginning of the end--of the authority of the old mythological systems by which the lives of men had been supported and inspired from time out of mind." Campbell continues his argument for the universal power of myth, and the many masks it wears guised within different cultures and geographies.
I'd like to call it great, but it seems to meander as so many academic books do.
And the obligatory references and cites of other learned individuals adds to the feeling that this book weighs heavily on your brain.For the studious person who wants an introduction to world mythologies beyond the video series, this is a great starting place, perhaps even better than Campbell's "The Hero with a Thousand Faces." It's not as dense and is an easier read by far.
For the academic who wants an insight into the mind of Joseph Campbell, this book is a must.
I've read parts of just about all Joseph Campbell's works, and since I haven't read too much literature on comparative spirituality, I always learn really interesting facts I didn't know.
F'rinstance, one of these essays (originally lectures) is written shortly after the first moon walk.
However, since the time of that lecture, there's actually been a marked increase in fundamentalist religious groups in the U.S. If only we were walking around on Mars and less dogmatic .
The essays aren't really connected, other than the fact that they all make connections between mythologies and our way of relating to the world in modern times.
I always find Joseph Campbell fascinating.
Pretty good; definitely some interesting content here.However, as a reader, I thought not all of the lectures were particularly linked, and sometimes it seemed like certain topics weren't covered that should have been.
Also, the title was misreading and irrelevant, and even the subtitle wasn't particularly appropriate.The later lectures were definitely better--they seemed better thought-out and also worked better as stand-alone pieces.
I particularly liked the early 1970s lectures "Schizophrenia--the Inward Journey" and "The Moon Walk--the Outward Journey".I think I might like his other, more cohesive works better, but altogether this was a good and enlightening book, and one whose ideas I can't get out of my head.It gets four stars only because the later lectures were so good and because this research as a whole is so enthralling.
previse postmoderno za moj ukus, Kembel ne moze da se odluci za pristup kojim objasnjava mit, vecina knjige je o tome koga i kako zna i koliko je dobro upucen u detalje odredjenih rituala, sto jeste sve impresivno ali ni u jednom trenutku se ne dodiruje sustine opisanih rituala i zasto su relevantni iil neophodni za danasnje drustvo. Naslov je misleading zapravo.
You don’t ask what the world means, you enjoy it.”Igjugarjuk: a Caribou Eskimo shaman of a tribe inhabiting the North Canadian tundras.
He compares the "essential schizophrenia" as a mirror voyage into consciousness, just like a shaman describes the contact with this realm.
The only difference is that the primitive shaman does not reject reality.
When Campbell went on to describe an acid trip and compares it to these delusions and revelations of primitive shamans, it freaks me out.
Other quotes that intrigued me:"psychological (or as we used to say, spiritual)"I recommend this book to those who like to read on human consciousness and its parallel universes.
Recently it dawned on me where my religious experience with organized religion went wrong.
After reading this book I thought "if only I had this view I wouldn't have missed the valuable lessons of religious mythologies and become so disillusioned".
None of the religious texts anywhere should be taken literally, they are all attempting to describe something that cannot be described but only ambiguously implied.
When taken literally the texts become more of a hindrance than helpful and in some cases even dangerous in the hands of those who thirst for power over others.
I know I'm in the minority (at least review-wise) in not really liking it, but I couldn’t get past the author's condescending attitude toward all people who truly believe in the literal teachings of their religion.
I think he makes some interesting points, but I just disliked the tone of the book.
He actually says that anyone with at least a kindergarten education can't possibly believe that the events depicted in religions (i.e. the creation, the flood) are true.
I think a statement like this could be the basis for an entire book of its own, but here it is just thrown out as fact.
than are dreamt of in [our] philosophy." Human understanding of the world has been increased through the sciences, including mathematics, the natural sciences like physics and chemistry, the social sciences like economics, sociology, and history, and the humanities like literary and religious studies.
Humanity needs these fields for the purposes of advancing what is beyond our natural ways of thinking.
Campbell's essays are about the importance of mythologies and how these mythologies influence and shape human's lives.I think this is an important book, and I only apologize that I have not been more lucid in this review.
I liked this book, but I only really liked the chapters on Buddhism and science.
I'm told this is his most accessible book.
After reading (and failing to comprehend a lick of) The Hero With a Thousand Faces, I believe it.
JC did not write this book, he delivered a series of disconnected lectures and later transcribed them here.
It makes for disjointed reading.
Not to mention there are several passages I can tell he delivered/wrote while nursing his fifth scotch.
T-shirt idea!Having said that, this subject matter is fascinating, and I know he is one of the masters of this form of thought and writing.
This book provides a thoughtful look at the parallels between different religions' stories and the links between these stories and various elements of existence.
If that sounds vague, it's because the book's twelve lectures cover serious ground.
The most interesting talks were "The Importance of Rites," "The Confrontation of East and West in Religion," and (surprisingly) "Schizophrenia--the Inward Journey." While many of Campbell's ideas aren't news, they are expressed in articulate and, at times, poetic ways.What I enjoyed least about this book is how dated it can sound--a bit stuffy, a bit sexist, a bit old-white-man-scholar-ish.
I had come away from 'Hero with a Thousand Faces' with a thirst for more Campbell wisdom, and this provided it.
Some of the essays are less digestible than others, but the order in which they are placed means you go on a genuine journey through his ideas - which include more 'real life' commentary than HWTF (e.g. the final essay, 'Envoy: No More Horizons', about the state of mythology and religion in modern life, is one of the best essays I've ever read and is a great conclusion).
He is a champion of celebrating what connects us as humans, and this book goes through multiple different dimensions of this celebration.
The title and tagline to this are so self-helpish that, as self-help rightly should, it makes you want to run for the hills and break out in hives. When, no: this book should cause the opposite reaction. Scarf this one up, gulp this one down. The self-help bullshit is so toxic and this is just the opposite.It’s what Daniel said, Campbell can run fast and far afield sometimes but when he brings it home it’s dead-on.
Amazing - a must read for every living person! I starting reading this back in college when I was on a mythology kick (but then I was distracted by some other fascinating, shiny thing) & I just picked it up again - I'm so glad I did - I'm devouring it!
Wonderful book, it answers questions you didn't even know you had. I am a huge fan of his, reading it as part of my recommended reading for grad school.
Rocked my world...
Since these mythological symbols have been destroyed inside the mind and spirit of these men belonging to ISIS so these men feel they must destroy the actual physical objects that no longer carry any significant meaning and spiritual value as the objects once did.“When the world changes, then the religion has to be transformed,” explains Campbell in The Power of Myth, “That is a fact we had better to do.
This, and this alone, is preventing us from recognizing within ourselves that immortal and universal consciousness of which our physical senses, outward-turned, are but the agents.Whereas the level of instruction represented in the Bible story is that, pretty much, of a nursery tale of disobedience and its punishment, inculcating an attitude of dependency, fear, and respectful devotion, such as might be thought appropriate for a child in relation to a parent, the Buddhist teaching, in contrast, is for self-responsible adults.In those zones, furthermore, the common sight of rotting vegetation giving rise to new green shoots seems to have inspired a mythology of death as the giver of life; whence the hideous idea followed that the way to increase life is to increase death.
I should have known better, given that this book isn't scholarly and was just designed to be a series of informal lectures to the public, but I was really taken aback by the fact that Campbell hardly ever referenced sources for his claims.
However, one idea of his was particularly arresting, and it really clarified my own thinking on this issue.The problem can be stated very simply as this: Despite the fact that many people interpret religious claims literally, all religions are clearly untrue, and it is dangerous and ludicrous to act otherwise.
