https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/127451.Don_t_Die_My_Love
This book was given to me by relatives as a random stocking stuffer when I was a pre-teen.
I never expected to like it, but as soon as I started reading, it became my favorite book, and remained my favorite book for years afterward.
It's still sitting on my shelf, over a decade later, falling apart at the seams from all the use it got in my younger years.
I'm grateful for the throwback.I tried reading other Lurlene McDaniel books in younger years, but none of them got to me like this one.
I can't wait to pass it along as a random stocking stuffer to my future daughter one day!
“If it's possible to send a message from heaven, I'll get one to you.” -Luke~Spoilers~You want a book that rips out your heart and stomps all over it?
This book is beautiful and the kind of love any woman wants from a man.
They reach high school and are still going strong, their love never dies.
However her love for him never died in fact it grew stronger.
However the ending his beautiful and Luke sends a message to Juile from heaven, flowers covering the football field.
I read this book in class and I cried my eyes out for an hour in front of my class.
Luke and Julie's love for each other was truly genuine IMHO, and I was sad for Luke when he was diagnosed with Hodgkin's.
As realistic as it was, I was still hoping against hope and eventually found myself reaching for the tissues, which is saying a lot as I usually don't get emotionally vested in fictional stories.About the story… Luke has loved Julie since he was a little boy.
He loves Julie with all his heart and she feels the same for him.
Their lives are turned upside down when Luke is diagnosed with Hodgkin's, which is a form of cancer.
The author, Lurlene McDaniel, does an awesome job in her work.
I wish I had more time to read her books.
I love to read her writing.
This book is an amazing love story.
I love how the main character shows how devoted to her boyfriend.
Yet, as many changes he faces she stills stands by his side even when he doesn’t want her love.
I like how the author always incorporates at least one person that has cancer.
She does an awesome job on the way she writes her books.
I have read many of her books and wish to read more.
*Whoa there, Nellie! Spoiler alert!*But he does.
Check out my Youtube channel: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCfer...2.5/5 Stars Luke has always loved Julie since he was a child even though Julie originally hadn't felt the same way.
When Luke receives a scary diagnosis, Julie decides to stand by him and show him how much she loves him.
I loved the ending and the thing that Luke did for Julie (I won't say what because spoilers but OMG MY HEART).
I didn't like Julie in particular and at times found her to be rather annoying.
I also didn't care for a lot of the dialogue in the book.

Julie Ellis is a young girl who is dating the perfect boy that every girl in the school would be lucky to date, but the only problem is that he doesn’t care much for her an only has his mind on making into the big times for football.
Luke Mulden is her love, he has liked Julie since they were little but she was so mean to him.
This book has a very good begin, it’s sad, makes you want to fall in love and it will make you cry.
If you really like heart warming stories and cute young relationships I would recommend this book for you.
Don't Die my Love is the saddest love story i have ever read in my life.
It talks about this guy who is a really good football player, but one day his girlfriend notices something wrong with him and suggest that he sees a doctor.
I would recommend this book to anyone who loves a sad story, because this might probably one of the saddest stories you will ever read.
I would also recommend this book to people who want to see how deep you are because if you feel you won't cry over something sad, you definitely will after reading this story.
Oh. My. Gosh. Seriously. I never cry. Never. All my friends call me heartles becuase of that reason. But I was literally crying a tthe end of this book. Just thinking about it makes me want to cry again. This is an amazing book and I think everyone should read it.
After reading this book, I think my heart literaly broke into little tiny pieces.
Every single word of this book touched my heart.
Every single paragraph made me crave for more and the end, oh well, the end made me end up sobbing and sobbing for very long minutes.“And If I can’t wait for you at the end of an aisle on our wedding day, I’ll wait for you in heaven.”“If it’s possible to send a message from heaven, I’ll get one to you.”I can't make a better review because my heart is too broken.
After this book, after feeling so heartbroken by its imense beauty, I don't think I will be able to see love the same way.
This book really touched me. It is the first book that I have read to ever make me get a knot in my throat, eyes fill-up with tears and my heart feel the pain that the character Julie feels. I have never read such a touching book. The only other books that comes close to making me feel like this are books by Nicholas Sparks but this book really got to me and I reccommend it to everyone of all ages...
I'm still crying. More of a review at a later date. I am really thinking I read this at either the worst possible time, or the best possible time. I just discovered that some dear to me is dying of cancer. My emotions were all over the place with this book. I cried for a good twenty minutes at the end while everyone stared at me like I had lost my mind. I will link a more in depth review below.http://apopofjess.blogspot.com/2015/0...
Urrrrgghhh. My review  of Breathless basically sums up all of my thoughts about this book. The heroine is selfish and vain, but the love interest is actually quite nice (even though he does have terrible taste in girlfriends.)
I gave this book four stars because it has a lot of emotion and details. I love the way it tolls with your emotions. This book makes you feel like you're right there with the characters. The author did a great job ending the story, she left you filled in with everything and she didn't leave you out in the end. Those are reasons why i love this book!!
5 stars!!❤OMG. WHY. OMG.OMG. WHY. OMG. OMG. WHY. OMG.I dont think I'll ever get over what this book just did to me..❤Eventhough someone spoiled this book for me and I knew what would happen, it still broke me :( ..
I don't remember when I read it, but I do know that I enjoyed it very much. It is such a good book. It made me cry and I don't cry over books that often. The book was so sweet, and I reccommend it to anyone that like Realistic Fiction
Okay, I read this books years ago.
I may re-read it at some point.
However, I remember calling a family member, bawling my eyes out, once I had finished.
I know this book has had, & always will have, a special place in my heart.
Unfortunately, because I so clearly remember the emotional turmoil the ending caused me, I don't know if I can handle reading it while my life is as busy as it is--I don't have time to go into a dark, heart-broken depression.
I do highly recommend this book for anyone who wants to experience some serious "feels".
Don't Die, My LoveLurlene McDaniel250 pp. New York, NY.Random House Children's Book. $5.50ISBN: 0-553-56715-2 Everyone loves a good cry, and no one delivers heart wrenching stories better than Lurlene McDaniel. Don't Die, My Love by Lurlene McDaniel is a beautiful story of young heart breaking, tragic romance! This book was burning in past times when young love was the center of attention and still is! The story truly shows strong and passionate relationship between two teens and struggles on he
$5.50ISBN: 0-553-56715-2	Everyone loves a good cry, and no one delivers heart wrenching stories better than Lurlene McDaniel.
Don't Die, My Love by Lurlene McDaniel is a beautiful story of young heart breaking, tragic romance!
This book was burning in past times when young love was the center of attention and still is!
This attractive high-school couple were perfect together and had everything set good for them: popularity, good grades, and love.
With the pressure of high school and Luke's health, they wonder if their love can make it through.
You'll too because their love life is so heart warming and tragic.
Don't Die, My Love actually wasn't that painful to read, though.
I got pretty bored when Julie and Luke are on vacation in California, but I liked the rest of the book pretty well.
I was trying to figure out why books like this would be important for teen readers, and I actually think that some teens could learn some things from them: firstly, I know that death is a daunting topic for everyone, regardless of age, so reading about illness and death happening to young people would help young readers know that they're not alone.
This book is soo Good!
Well as you can see the two love birds on the front cover of the book is in love.
Something that the boy didn't even thing it can happen makes him sick.:( how can that happen and he is healthy!
hes a Football player for crying out loud!
well when he ends up with the sickness he doesn't have much time left.
The kind of people that would love the book is people who love books that invovle love and sadness:( my opinion is that why can't it just stay happy?
its too sad i was crying like a baby!
This was the novel that started my love affair with reading.
I have 4 copies of it Since I have read this book at least 20 + times and I have the entire first chapter memorized word for word.
I can't say there is anything particularly special about it I just adore lurlene and her talent of relating to teenagers in tough to extreme circumstances.everyone I've ever recommended this to has loved itI refer to it as my 'happy sappy love story' And I will keep on re reading it forever :)
Wow! I just loved this book. A sweet innocent and CLEAN romance between to young people.(think the Notebook, but G rated) You will not read without shedding some tears. The only negative thing would be the way the main characters relationship with and the way she speaks to her mother- But that is the only disagreeable part in the whole book. I loved the strength these young people showed in the book, especially Luke. I enjoyed that the author was very REAL with the book. Very sweet, emotional, and healing.
Don't Die, My Love was just ok for me. I wanted to love it, but I didnt. It had a simple plot and a sweet first love story, however it was predictable.
Omg...I don't even know where to start.Although this book constantly left me in tears it was still such a great read and one of my favorites in a long time.
Fantastic book!
Actually 3.5* tapi 4* juga masih pantaslah. Sangat tersentuh setelah membaca buku ini. Tentang perjuangan Luke, seorang pemuda dengan masa depan yang menjanjikan tapi pada akhirnya harus menyerah pada penyakit kanker yang dideritanya. Kagum dengan perjuangan Luke dan kemauannya untuk tetap hidup. Kagum juga dengan Julie yang sangat setia mendampingi Luke berjuang melawan penyakitnya. Walaupun agak kurang suka dengan cara Julie menghadapi Ibunya, karena walau bagaimanapun Ibunya hanya menginginkan yang terbaik untuk Julie.Overall, this is such a sweet yet inspiring story. Kinda reminds me of A Walk to Remember.
Mereka merasa ditakdirkan untuk bersatu dan akan selalu bersama selamanya.Saat posisinya sebagai pemain football berbakat sedang melambung dan mendapat tawaran beasiswa dari berbagai universitas, Luke divonis terkena kangker.
Luke sangat mencintai julie begitu juga sebaliknya, hal itu yang sering banget diungkapin oleh penulis sampe-sampe aku sebagai pembaca merasa agak berfikir..
Tetapi aku pernah menonton Kdrama Endless love dan merasakan bagaimana frustasinya Jun-Seo Oppa ketika mengetahui orang yang dicintainya sekarat karena kanker.
Mungkin harapanku terlalu tinggi untuk sebuah judul "don't die my love".Satu-satunya yang membuatku benar-benar-benar hampir meneteskan air mata dan dadaku terenyuh adalah dialog antara Julie dan Nancy Muldenhower."Bagaimana aku bisa bahagia tanpa dia?""Entahlah..
Lalu kali ini, apa yang saya temukan dalam sebuah novel berlabel romantis, Don’t Die my Love?
Dan kau tak kan mampu menolak apa pun permintaanku.” –LukeDon’t Die, My Love bercerita tentang perjalanan cinta 2 remaja yang masih amat belia, Luke dan Julie.
*lah saya yang udah 20 tahunan aja nggak pernah ngerasain cinta berlebihan seperti itu Hei, tapi kan ini novel terjemahan, jadi wajar saja rasanya jika versi cinta ala mereka berbeda cukup jauh dengan konsep cinta yang selama ini saya pikirkan.Kisah cinta Luke dan Julie dideskripsikan dengan sangat manis oleh penulis di awal cerita.
She flat-out said several times that her life was worth NOTHING without this guy and she completely shut down when he died.Now, to be fair, Luke had cancer and that's a big deal.
Luke basically said he felt PRESSURED by her to get well, to put his cancer behind him once he was in remission and she still kept insisting YOU WILL LIVE, LUKE, YOU WILL LIIIIIVE.Normally I'd find a pushy mother like Julie's annoying, especially when she went on and on about what SHE wanted for her daughter and how important it was to HER that she go to college and be a success.
Bahkan, ketika menginjak usianya yang ke-12, Luke mulai bergabung dengan tim football yang dilatih oleh ayah Julie.Membuat Julie semakin mengenal Luke, bahwa ayah Luke tewas dalam kecelakaan di pabrik baja saat Luke berusia 8 th dan ibu Luke harus berjuang keras membesarkan Luke sendirian dengan bekerja sebagai buruh pabrik.
Julie tetap mencintai Luke dan tetap mendampinginya, meskipun ditentang oleh ibunya yang tidak menyukai hubungan antara Julie & Luke.
Namun, Julie tidak menyerah begitu saja dan selalu memberikan dorongan semangat pada Luke."Seandainya bisa mengirim pesan dari surga, akan kukirimkan oesan untukmu"-Luke, hal.
Tapi, mungkin karena gaya bahasa terjemahannya.Mungkin, karena aku tidak terlalu terbiasa dengan gaya bahasa yang sedikit gaul.
