https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12591698-caliban-s-war
Jim Holden is his guy.Meanwhile, the politics behind the scenes are heating up, and Avasarala, the dignified but potty mouthed representative of Earth, finds herself right in the middle of a space standoff.
VenusWhen Venus starts shooting off protomolecule bombs at ships in space, regardless of their affiliations, these creatures explode right through the sides of the ships and turn the crew members into...yes, if you read the first book or watched the TV show The Expanse, you know what they become.Vomit ZombiesHolden is suffering from Post Traumatic Miller Syndrome after Miller was killed.
So now I’m counting the days until the new book publishes and the next season premieres.(Original review.)Essentially this is a mix of Game of Thrones and Firefly without all the rape and child burning and people talking like they’re in a western movie.Humanity has expanded throughout our solar system, colonizing Mars and various moons and asteroids.
Since people are always gonna be people, and will therefore suck, political tensions are high between Earth, Mars, and the Belters, and the events of the first book in the series have the threat of war seeming higher than ever.
OK, I liked this book but...  WHERE I HAD READ THIS BEFORE? I think that at its core, this second book is was too much similar to the first one.I mean, there is a search for a girl (different age but the same basic idea), a mystery about a threat, and the tensions between the policital powers.The only difference is that while the first book, Leviathan Wakes can be read a stand-alone book if you wish, maybe since the authors weren't sure to get the chance of... expanding it (pun intended)... for
I think that at its core, this second book is was too much similar to the first one.I mean, there is a search for a girl (different age but the same basic idea), a mystery about a threat, and the tensions between the policital powers.The only difference is that while the first book, Leviathan Wakes can be read a stand-alone book if you wish, maybe since the authors weren't sure to get the chance of...
Both different but both strong female characters and very different to the standard basic female leads in sci-fi books.
Leviathan Wakes was one of my great reads this year (review: http://carols.booklikes.com/post/3263...
). It broke into my reading blahs and set off a trend of great reads.
Bridge of Birds brought me back to reading, but my reviewing despondency has lingered.Caliban’s War fails to live up to the fun, plotting or consistency of Leviathan Wakes, though the writers tried their best by slapping a new cover on a heavily recycled version of the Leviathan.
Unsurprisingly, we also have the protomolecule, spaceships, and a Mars versus Earth versus Belters conflict.Because I continue my review with off-topic digressions about libraries and a mild speculation about author sexism, both of which violate GR's terms of service for on-topic, non-author-bashing reviews, the rest of this review will be continued at:http://carols.booklikes.com/post/6532...orhttp://clsiewert.wordpress.com/2013/1...
It was definitely different from the first novel, and didn’t lack any of the adventure and excitement!As I mentioned, I thought I knew which characters we’d hear from in Caliban’s War and was pleasantly surprised with the introduction of a handful of brand-new POVs who added fresh perspectives to the story without losing any momentum.
I am certain I will be reading them again.Recommended Reading: I would hand this series to sci-fi lovers, but it’s definitely a space opera (my new favorite genre).
This is also an excellent series to hand someone wanting to try either genre.
However, I did not want to reread  Leviathan Wakes to reassess it, I want to know what happen next in the series so I went and bought a copy of Caliban's War and that’s the end of this dull intro!Caliban's War continues the story of some Earth politician’s attempt to weaponize the weird alien life form called the Protomolecule and our heroes struggle to stop them and save the entire human race in the process.
Clarke at his best, they make the reading experience very immersive.In my review of  Leviathan Wakes I complained about the labeling of each chapter with the character’s point of view ( Game of Thrones style) which I felt was unnecessary and distracting.
Venus really stole the show by the end, but all the Powers butting heads was also fun as hell.Did anyone else whoop when Avasarala and Bobby got on the Rocinante?It was truly great both times I read it.
Look: If I'm going to read a space-opera, I want huge, Huge, HUGE scope, right?
I know a little astronomy and scale and putting all of that in perspective with what the hell just happened at the end of this novel is right likely to blow my mind, if it hadn't already been blown when I read Stephen Baxter's The Ring.
[5 Stars] That ending. Someone hold me. I wasn't ready for that.
*** 4.25 *** "...“That man’s asshole must be tight enough right now to bend space.”..." It must be the right time for me and Sci-Fi, because I loved it! Caliban's War is the second installment in the "Expance" series and I actually enjoyed it better than the first one! No, nothing was wrong with the first one either, I even missed our pulp-noir drunken detective with nothing to lose, but fortunately the authors gave us to kick-ass female characters who more than made up for Miller's loss.  "...“
In order to do that, she recruits the biggest bad-ass Martian Marine, Bobbie, who survived the first attack of the alien monster on Ganymede and is now on Earth to testify as to its existence.
Bobbie is being looked upon as a trader by her fellow Martians and hates it, but is also deep enough into the reality of things to understand that Avasarala is doing all she can in order to save all parties involved, Mars included.
I like Holden's crew, I am OK with Holden, but I love Bobbie and Avasarala!!!
OMG!!!!!! WTF WTF WTF?!?!?!?!?!?!?!
I must say that I'm actually surprised at the number of events I liked better on the show such as (view spoiler)[basically everything involving Cotyar, who was wholly underdeveloped here in the book, or everything to do with the political intrigue involving the struggle for dominance between Avasarala and Errinwright (hide spoiler)].
Both elements seem far better developed and thought through on the show.However, there are also elements that are much more detailed here in the book, such as (view spoiler)[the protomolecule on Venus reacting to what's happening to its off-shoots / outgrowths or whatever you wanna call them (hide spoiler)].
Avasarala and Bobbi are great! They get to be a lot stronger than the show.Love the firefly led into the next book.
The second novel in The Expanse series finds Holden and the crew of the Rocinante trying to stop further attempts to weaponize the protomolecule, with a little help from a Martian marine, a belt-born botanist, and a UN power broker.As exciting and action packed as the first book, and nearly as good. The ending, while spectacular, doesn't quite pack the emotional punch of its predecessor.
NEXT!
In the prologue we are introduced to a chronically ill girl who is abducted, serving as one of the main characters main motivation.
At least this time, that person is her father and I am a lot more interested in family dynamics than into some dude’s weird obsession.
What worked best for me where those newly introduced characters, especially the two women.
I loved spending time with Bobby, a soldier from Mars with a pretty severe case of PTSD.
And then I picked up a nasty case of "Series Blah" which left me in this emotional hinterland between wanting to continue the series because I really loved the first book, and dreading to read it because either it wouldn't live up to my expectations, or it would be so awesome that I would need more and there was no more to be had, at the time.
For example: "Holden felt that way too." I feel like there should be a comma before "too": "Holden felt that way, too." In my mind, it just seems right with the comma, even though technically it's not required, so these bits kept snagging my attention, which was a little irritating.Secondly, I loved Miller as a character in Leviathan Wakes.
My review also may contain spoilers of this nature for anybody unfamiliar with what happened before.Daniel Abraham and Ty Frank saw they were on to a good thing with their space opera and decided to change as little as possible, to the point where some of the plot devices are recycled and used in an almost identical way as in Leviathan Wakes, instilling a strong deja-vu sentiment: the main story arc is about chasing a missing girl from one asteroid station to another; James Holden once again decides to emulate the Wikileaks founder and to broadcast dangerous secrets to all and sundry; vomit zombies are still part of the landscape, and Earth, Mars and the OPA are still at each other throats.
Still this book delivers and the ending is fabulous.
I hear a lot of readers saying all the books out there are YA and there's no good adult characters.
Abraham/Corey delivers in all of his series this one included.
Avasarala who is a new character to this series is multilayered and beyond that just a lot of fun.
I'd love to share a glass of scotch with her just to see how she would insult me and see if I could give as good as I received.
The epilogue was a twist I saw coming but it was fun and well presented all the same.
Meet the newest Expanse fan girl! I'm in love!
What do you do?” Always a bit worried with second volumes but Caliban's War is another amazing adventure, very cinematographic, which explains why the series is being filmed for TV.
The plot carries on from the events of Leviathan Wakes and once again Holden is one of the narrators.
We also have three new narrators, each compelling in their own right, with Avarasala being the most fascinating one in my opinion.
Instead of the film noir aspect brought by Miller, we have instead the cut-throat world of politics of Avarasala, the military element of Bobbie, and the social aspect of feeding Belters.
Instead he has us cowed and docile - apex author-predator benevolently marionetting our emotional involvement with a tight, high-quality, highly-plausible near-future space opera.Caliban's War picks up shortly after the conclusion of Leviathan Wakes - this is definitely the second in the series rather than a standalone work - read them in order.
I would even go so far as to suggest that it might even be a better novel than the first in some ways.This novel provides a lot of character development to the cast of misfits introduced in the first book, along with introducing a several new characters.
The authors managed a good balance of action, politics and personal development.
As with the first book, the chapters cycle through a small cast of characters providing different perspectives on events and pushing the narrative forward..One of my favourite aspects of the Expanse series is the world-building.
Meanwhile, back on Venus, the protomolecule is busy transforming the planet - building something.
I know that the protomolecule is an artifact of an alien civilization.
I know that bad people in faceless corporations are willing to bend the rules to make a quick buck off of this terrifying thing.
Toss in Jim Holden, the quest for the little girl, and his urge to share everything with everyone and you have bedlam.
That perfectly set up the next book and went a long way to unraveling what the heck was happening on Venus.
Books like this get me excited, they are a fast read, exciting and very interesting, the characters are believable and deep. This is Science fiction at its best .
In terms of that excellent new POV character work: - Bobbie flattens out into a sexist, sexualized, "hot action girl" cliche (complete with one-liners and sometimes cringeworthy banter).- Pax rides the momentum that propelled him into the company of the main crew all the way past usefulness into inertia.
In Caliban's War we get more answers for who was pulling the strings in Leviathan Wakes than we do new plot that effectively shows the fallout from the events of the first book.
I am interested in the alien thing, but I a much bigger fan of the more personal sci-fi the two authors are creating.
So imagine my joy to learn that the alien thing stays in the back and menaces, really only flaring it’s ugly head when the pesky humans poke at it a bit, and the story instead focuses on the doings of the people spread around the solar system.
But the star, the single person that would keep me reading his book even if the rest of it wasn’t as good as it was, is Avarasala.Let’s talk about Avarasala, shall we?
I had some slight trepidation going into this for a couple of reasons; I’d just finished a 5 star book which usually means the next book I read gets a lower score as it can’t keep up with the previous story; I wasn’t blown away away by the first book like some reviews led me to believe I would be and their reviews of the follow up weren’t as positive; My favourite character from the previous story wasn’t going to be around and the one who was didn’t exactly make me weak at the knees.
One standout character that's new in the second book is a female politician who is as smart and believable a character as I've ever read, and whose grasp of politics (and generous use of profanity) is a delight to read.
I've read the first two books in the series back-to-back, and now I can't imagine having to wait for the next one to come out.Smart, fast-paced, believable, and no shortage of edge-of-your-seat moments.
If you any affinity for sci fi at all, or if you just really like a great, fast-paced story told extremely well, you'll like both books in this series.
We still get Holden's POV but now the author has added three additional POVs - a high ranking politician, a Marine, and a botanist/father - which broaden the story and gives the reader a more complete 360 degree view of the accelerating crisis.
The ending pretty much assures that I will be reading the next book.**Reread 2018: I find Holden a lot more annoying this time around and Avasarala a lot more awesome.
I listened to the audiobook this time and the narrator, though male, does an awesome job at delivering Avasarala's curse laden observations with style.
There is A LOT of character development, which makes for a slower story overall compared to the first book.
With the introduction of Avasarala and Bobbie we get a big sign that we're not going to have an entire series where the major players are only men.I really enjoy how the logistical use of the technology and environments are described.
Overall I really enjoyed this one, but not quite on the level as Leviathan Wakes.
I love his voice for Avasarala.Final verdict: 4.5 star story, 5 star narration, 5 stars overall
