https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/633088.Tucker
This book was published in 1971.
The book follows a common theme of L’Amour stories.
I noticed in the story that a man asked Tucker if he could read.
The man told Tucker he should read all the books he could obtain.
That a man educates himself by reading.
Give a man an honest day’s work for your pay or vise versa and ride for the brand.I originally read this book in 1971.
If you enjoy a good western or would like a reminder of the old fashion values this book is for you.I read this as a paperback.
I used to read L'Amour's books as a teenager. In fact, I read the author's entire oeuvre by my early 20s. I read this novel 48 years ago and decided to read it again. It felt good to read this exciting book of a teen who grows up quickly into a man in the wild West.
I had to add this one simply because it was the first Louis L'Amour ever placed in my hands-- thanks to my big brother. Thanks, Tim -- you created an addict. :)
This is the best Louis L'Amour I have read yet! It was awesome! Shell Tucker is awesome! :D
In 1971, Louis L’amour published his novel Tucker. The author was focused on writing stories about the Old West before it was highly populated by new settlers and miners. He wants the readers to know what the West used to be like, how few cities and towns there were, what the government was like, even how people treated one another. The genre of this novel is Historical Fiction. Tucker is a novel that starts out with a boy, Shell Tucker, and his Pa on a cattle drive to sell that cattle their com
Shell’s father was left in such a terrible condition that he died a day or two later, and Shell makes it his job to get the money back for those who worked hard for it.
The men are very relatable, because Shell himself is trying to not think about what he has to do with his life in future, just like many students still in school.
Both of these stories were written for the readers to explore what the West used to be like, and how tough it was.
Personal Response I liked the book Tucker and enjoyed reading it.
Plot Summary The book starts off with Tucker's dad getting injured, and then not long after he died.
After this Con Judy and Tucker ride after Hesseltine and the money.
Tucker meets Vashti in Colorado, but he leaves to ride after his money.
Tucker keeps getting closer to Hesseltine, and more of Heseltine's men die.
Tucker then decides he is not going to pursue Hesseltine because he wants to go back to Vashti.
Tucker gets some of his money back.
The seventeen year old protagonist of this novel promises to recover money taken from him and his father, and he endures beating, shooting, thirst, and personal doubt to become a young man with a "good name" that precedes him across the West.
His fresh approach and desire to become better is charming while the author inserts through the first person narrative some character lessons such as,".
the element that makes a man a thief makes him untrustworty, but those who associate with him often forget that." Another quotable truth is reflected when Tucker observes,"I'd picked up a smattering of geology from Con Judy during our rides, and had begun looking at deserts and mountains from fresh viewpoints, and it showed me that the more a man knew, the more interesting everything became.
I love Louis L'Amour westerns! This story was similar in some respects to others I've read but I still enjoyed it. Westerns, in the hands of a good writer like L'Amour, express a love of nature, a sense of good moral values, and a love of travel. This story involves Shel Tucker, a young man who must face a lot of serious problems to regain his neighbors' earnings from a cattle drive.
I really liked this book... its the second book that I have read by Louis L'amour... I learned from this book that you should always try to have a goal in life... somthing that I liked about the main charecter was that he never gave up, he kept going no matter what, ive always tried to finish things that start...
I am (and will be, for months) working through the ludicrous number of books I bought at the library sale. I breezed through Tucker by Louis L’Amour, which was solidly enjoyable but nothing I haven’t said about L’Amour before. I find the occasional piece of genre fiction very therapeutic, and everyone loves a good Western.
For some reason, his books named for a single character are some of my favorites. Young man falls in with a bad crowd who subsequently turn on him. Then he seeks vengeance. What more can you ask for?
Another very good book by Louis L'Amour, about a boy who becomes a man when he and his pa are robbed and pa dies. He learns the value of keeping promises, no matter how hard it is or how long it takes.
I just love the good cowboys that get the bad guys! This is the story of a 17-year old cowboy who takes a long journey to retrieve something that was taken from him and in that journey he turns into a man. A great read!
An enjoyable coming-of-age western. A young boy seeks revenge/justice on the men who killed his father and stole his money. At some point he has to decide if a revengeful heart is worth the grief it brings. Fun stuff.
Young Shell Tucker hunts for the three men who rob his father of $20,000 that he is carrying the sale of a trail herd. Two of the thieves were supposed to be Shell's friends. As he attempts to recover the money needed by the folks back, Shell grows up.
For some reason whenever I am feeling down a good Louis L'Amour book really makes me want to work hard and leaves me feeling pretty darn good. This one shows the benefit of facing right up to one's mistakes and never giving up. Couldn't put it down.
An oater about the luckiest unlucky guy ever.
"This novel beautifully shows the transformation from a teenage lad to a well refined man and his courage in facing impossible odds to recover the money stolen from his father. "
Always a good, let your mind wonder read. L'Amour gets a bit formulate, the heroes are always the the best at what they do, it is still fun to get lost in a western.
It was a pretty quick read (two nights). Great names. Not too graphic like Louis usually does. Good story line with a good but predictable ending.
He grows from an impetuous, spoiled young boy who actually caused his father’s death, to a mature man who makes decisions well beyond his years and experience.
Again, at the end, I just felt like “meh.” Now, one final footnote—while pursuing his enemies, Tucker encounters some old coot on the trail who ends up being one serious pain in the butt.
The old coot catches up with Tucker several times, takes his horse and money and leaves him to die.
Those ranchers including Shell Tucker father were relying on that money to buy food items replenish their herd.
Gone horse and saddlebags; So now it's up to Shell to retrieve horse and money.Shell Tucker life would change forever, he made a promise to his dying father he would get their money back, and he wouldn't let his father down or the families back home.
These names, Bob Heseltine, Doc Sites, Kid Reese and later Ruby Shaw were the robbers who he was looking for.
Shell Tucker at one time admired the life that Kid Reese, Doc Sites led, he was afraid of Bob Heseltine a notorious gun fighter.

Growing up I loved reading Louis L'Amour books. I loved the stories and as a bonus so did my Dad. It was nice to have that experience in common. I picked up this kindle version and loved reading this book. Not only was Tucker's journey an interesting one but I felt like my Dad was reading with me.
As long as you're reading, "I want my money back!" over and over again without thinking of the kid from Better off Dead yelling, "I want my two dollars!", it's a good read.Also, the protagonist passes out more than anyone besides Johnny Got His Gun. Wait, he only passed out once. Based on that Shell Tucker probably wins the Passes Out Most In Any Book Ever Award.
One of L'Amour's bestI first read this book years ago. It is a great story of a boy forced to grow up by circumstances. The characters are well developed, and the story is fast paced.
I love Louis Lamour....He is one of my top 5 favorite writers........I have have read many of his books and have never been disappointed, until now. "Tucker" has its moments, but there are several stretches that should have been edited down some.
This one will take you from Texas to Colorado to Los Angeles. If that doesn't exhaust you, then everything that happens to Tucker will.
Didn't enjoy this one as much as some of L'Amour's other stories, it was still entertaining. Ending felt a little rushed.
My first Western - a satisfying read.
