https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/203310.Poetry_Language_Thought
The whole of the world achieves here an equally essential presence in all its drawings.”“The objectness of the world remains reckoned in that manner of representation which deals with time and space as quanta of calculation, and which can know no more of the nature of time than of the nature of space.”“The conversion of consciousness is an inner recalling of the immanence of the objects of representation into presence within the heart’s space.”-------------------THE POETRY BARThirsty, I enter a bar that’s dark, smoky and crowded, squeeze through and perch on a bar stool at the end closest the door, cross my arms on the counter and scan the faces of those around me.
I read every single sentence about two million times and the depth of understanding was not proportional to that number - it actually, in some cases, with some sentences, decreased.
The brilliance of Heidegger is that he never forgets where he is in the circle and circle within a circle and the center of it is this incredibly beautiful glowing red ball that blinds you at the same time as giving you the deepest insight into the nature of reality that you've ever experienced.
With words, Heidegger creates a wall you can stand on and then demolish into soft space - it is unbelievable but he creates an actual, physical world with his writing.
The nature of poetry, which has now been ascertained very broadly--but not on that account vaguely, may here be kept firmly in mind as something worthy of questioning, something that still has to be thought through.The above is lifted from The Origin of the Work of Art, the second piece and first essay of this bewildering collection.
The second essay What Are Poets For left my reason blinded, a darkened room where I could appreciate Holderlin but make no sense of anything further.
Practice needs craft.
Stay on the path, in genuine need, and learn the craft of thinking, unswerving, yet erring.Sage advice, this reader hopes to continue.
I never read the big H before, because he's a fucking Nazi. I try not to read things by fucking assholes. But the name makes some amazing points about how and why the poet/artist must create. How can a smart person also be a Nazi? I don't know.
so many circles!
i don't think i made it out of the maze.
im still very lost.
it was fun at times - like i was on the teacup ride (a little circle inside a larger circle), but then i'd start to feel nauseous and kinda wanna be on the ground again amongst others.
other times it felt like i was a circle on a venn diagram that was not intersecting with heidegger's circle but then what about everyone who doesn't intersect with heidegger's circle>??!!!!!
idk idk anyway im exhausting the circle metaphors.
tbh my fav thing was heidegger's unadulterated fanboying over hölderlin <3 <3 <3 ;)
Poetry, Language, Thought, Martin Heidegger عنوان: شعر، زبان و اندیشهی رهایی - هفت مقاله از مارتین هایدگر همراه با زندگی تصویری هایدگر؛ مترجم: عباس منوچهری؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، مولی، 1381، در نود و چهار، 265، مصور، شابک: 9645996503؛ موضوغ: نقد و تفسیر، زبانشناسی، شعر، فلسفه قرن 20 م
Poetry, Language, Thought, Martin Heidegger عنوان: شعر، زبان و اندیشه‌ی رهایی - هفت مقاله از مارتین هایدگر همراه با زندگی تصویری هایدگر؛ مترجم: عباس منوچهری؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، مولی، 1381، در نود و چهار، 265، مصور، شابک: 9645996503؛ موضوغ: نقد و تفسیر، زبانشناسی، شعر، فلسفه قرن 20 م
Hofstader's capable translation of these extraordinary Heidegger essays makes this one of the indispensable books of 20th century philosophy.
This collection is especially indicative of Heidegger's 'turn' to art and poetry, particularly in his amazingly complex 'Origin of the Work of Art' and 'Poetically, Man Dwells.' 'The Thing' is also a remarkable essay in Heidegger's descriptions of the closing of distances in modernity, as well as his phenomenological observations of the relation between things and world.
This is an excellent representation of Heidegger's philosophy of Language, and Hofstader has translated them quite well, even if the translations of Holderlin are a bit too cautious.
Absolutely one of Heidegger's best works. Initially, I read specific pieces (The Origin of the Work of Art, The Thing, and Language) from the book for a couple philosophy classes for my major; however, after doing so, I decided to read the book in its entirety. I'm glad I did. I suppose one can say they are truly on a philosophical journey if and when Heidegger becomes an enjoyable read.
I hereby absolve myself of any guilt over not finishing this book.
While reading Stein’s Tender Buttons alongside Derrida’s Sign Structure, and Play, Heidegger’s Poetry, Language, Thought was a very appropriate text to continue studying the purpose of poetry— and the purpose of language and the individual word in general.
The “Being,” “work-being” of the work, and various “origins” that Heidegger repeatedly makes reference to throughout the book again made me question the intangible “missing center,” “essence of the thing,” and the idea of approaching the word “without any pre-conceptions.” The emphasis on letting the object be unaffected and that, instead of imposing oneself upon it, that one should “listen and hear” to it, is an interesting point particularly related to phenomenology.
Even though he is usually linked to Nazism, i think that people tend to forget that behind that name also lies a whole heritage of philosophy whose aim id to detect truth where we do not usually see it.
But what I find a bit off is that Heidegger has been so obsessed with Being that maybe it dragged his thinking down.
I know that the core of his philosophy hovers around Being, but if he put Being withing a phenomenological sphere rather a transcendental one, maybe then he wouldnt have lost himself in a blind quest whose aim is to find a Being not accessible to us.
Heidegger's language is ambiguous.
It takes time to understand what he means by "thinging of things," "working of work," "Being of beings" etc., etc.
It helped to read slowly and to draw diagrams to understand the connections he formulates between different concepts.
His writing becomes more evident as one keeps on reading.
The language almost grows on you till you feel like Heidegger is directly conversing with you and convincing you of his ideas.
It was also interesting to learn how much Heidegger was influenced by the poetry of Holderlin and Rilke.
4.5I'm gonna need to leave this to sit for a while. This was absolutely incredible and I think Heidegger makes some really interesting points about art (poetry especially), however I spent the entire time I was reading this feeling like my head was stuck in a vice with my brain slowly collapsing under the pressure. I feel like I'm definitely gonna have to return to this in smaller, more manageable bursts - reading individual essays over and over again, instead of trying to grapple with the entire collection as a whole.Second Read Yep, my brain still hurts.

165All distances in time and space are shrinking… Yet the frantic abolition of all distances brings no nearness… what is happening here when… everything is equally far and equally near?… Man stares at what the explosion of the atom bomb could bring with it.
161However hard and bitter, however hampering and threatening the lack of houses remains, the real plight of dwelling does not lie merely in a lack of houses.
228For a man to be blind, he must remain a being by nature endowed with sight.
goodreads really needs to create another option/button for couldn't read or couldn't finish. heidegger's poetry is fairly useless, and his dog-chasing-its-tail philosophy of where does art begin and where does the artist end (and vice-versa) left me cold.

It took no less than 2.5 months to read this thin volume of lectures.
I think this seemingly disorganized method made all the difference in reading this work.
I started with "The Thing" read along with Buddhist thought (namely the Boddhisatva), "Building Dwelling Thinking" along with architectural theory aligned with Heidegger, "...poetically, Man dwells...", "What are Poet's For?", "Language", then "The Origin of the Work if Art" with the Stanford Encyclopedia's entry on Heidegger and Aesthetics.
After all that I was ready to approach "The Thinker as Poet" with something more than crazy-making confusion.
This is my first approach to Heidegger.
These are challenging essays, especially if you haven't read his tome-like book on thinking and being.I objected deeply to "What Are Poets For?" Heidegger close-reads a Rilke poem in such a way as to prove Heidegger's own philosophical assertions, and it seems ludicrous. Go read Nabokov's Pale Fire instead, and laugh at that sort of attempt.There are some brilliant ideas, here, however. They just need to be read in context with more study of Heidegger. Though it seems logical to collect these thematically-related texts into one book, the system fails to convey what Heidegger's really about. In my opinion.
I loved this book immensely, but I have to admit I was rather disappointed to see that the segments dealing with Poetry, where not about the 'Philosophy OF Poetry', but rather 'Philosophy IN Poetry'
This goes against Bertrand Russell's warning against the assumption that language mirrors the structure of the world in his "The Analysis of Mind" (1921).
Russell believed it perfectly acceptable to forsake words in order to contemplate facts "more directly through images" (i.e., a picture theory).Martin Heidegger was looking for an "unconcealing" of reality in which the metaphysical, poetic dimension of human language is used to institute truth (an ecstatic dimension) as opposed to the dry facts that Russell was seeking.
This process is undoubtedly closer to mysticism than the language analysis of analytic philosophers.
An absolutely fascinating book early off, it delves into the nature of poetry, language, and thought (shocking given the title). It asks about what art is, what work is, and how art is work, and in what way art exists. Early essays are reminiscent of Being and Time, but the later works are ephemeral and spiritual which lost quite a bit of my interest. As I continue through my Heidegger journey I may come back and reread these to see if I still hold the same opinion.
Over my head--plenty of interesting passages, though: "Is the structure of a simple propositional statement (the combination of subject and predicate) the mirror image of the structure of the thing (of the union of substance with accidents)? Or could it be that even the structure of the thing as thus envisaged is a projection of the framework of the sentence?" p. 23
In the shoes vibrates the silent call of the earth, its quiet gift of the ripening grain and its unexplained self-refusal in the fallow desolation of the wintry field. Art is something something truth about things in themselves something
"Language is the house of being"
Language speaks only when it demarks the boundary of the mystery of Being.Because much poetry explicitly uses language to explore existence beyond the literal, it is the epitome of art - dancing in the gap between language and inarticulable consciousness.The essays indicate a spiritual understanding of the profound humanness of consciousness of that which is beyond and engages with some poems in a way that tend to indicate a willingness to accept a literal embodiment of Heaven and Earth that strikes me as contrary to the understanding of the mystery of Being discussed outside the context of the specific poems.Although Heidegger presents himself as a philosopher and a rational thinker, he cannot remain so in the context of this conversation.
The fourfold, besides just being a bizarre way to characterize different aspects of unconcealment, is made intelligible in light of the four restrictions on Being from intro (although the fourfold DOES NOT coincide with the four restrictions, the meaning of earth,sky,mortals and divinities will become clearer with that particular background) On the origin of the work of art is an amazing essay.
(This is highly at odds with Kant's transcendental aesthetic, and is on the whole a more naturalistic way of approaching the phenomena IMO- althought there are many parallels between Heidegger and Kant)Language is also a great one.
It is a collection of texts which express art's (and particularily poetry's) role in the thinging of things and the worlding of the world - of the eventful appropriation which unfolds and holds together the unity of the fourfold.
It is the attempt at thinking outside of metaphysics, of which aesthetics is a part.What is the work of art and what does it do?
This collection contains some key attempts at formulating a different or other expression of that most simple complexity that withdraws from all speaking.
Poetry and thinking - speaking the same differently.
I bought this book to discover I'd already read all the essays it contains. But I've learned the only way one can read Heidegger is to constantly re-read Heidegger. So it was no tragedy. Plus, Building, Dwelling, Thinking? That one will never get old for me.
Coming to its conclusion, I think Poetry, Language, Thought is necessary reading for poets, however troubled Heidegger's reputation has become (once again) since the publication of his notebooks.
I should also mention that while I think this is necessary reading for poets, it isn't a terribly practical book, and poets shouldn't come to it looking for method.
Best to come to these texts with just the right dose of skepticism and generosity, in order to find new ways of seeing, reading, and feeling poems, and the work of a poet.
