https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/288995.52_Pickup
”We picked the wrong guy,” Leo Frank said. “That’s the whole thing. We picked the wrong fucking guy.” They want Harry’s money.Harry Mitchell did everything that he was supposed to do. He was a World War Two ace fighter pilot who came back from the war and started his own manufacturing company that employs hundreds of people. He married well. His wife Barbara keeps herself in shape with jogging and playing tennis and is still a very attractive women. Everything was fine until Harry met Cynthia,Ci
Harry isn’t the type of guy who is going to go all weak in the knees.
There are three men putting the squeeze on Harry, but the main guy, Alan Raimy, is probably one of the most despicable villains I’ve ever come across in literature.
In the movie of the same title from 1986, John Glover plays the role.When he smiled, he made me shiver.”I don’t know what this fucking world is coming to.
John Glover is Alan Raimy.Roy Scheider plays Harry Mitchell in the movie, and it is probably his best role outside of Jaws.
Blackmailers have factory owner Harry Mitchell over a barrel.
Too bad Harry Mitchell has ideas of his own...Elmore Leonard sure knows how to weave a serpentine tale, doesn't he?
It was written in 1974 but has a certain timelessness to it.Harry Mitchell is the usual Leonard protagonist: cool, capable, and not entirely spotless.
The way he handles the blackmailers set the stage for later Leonard protagonists like Chili Palmer and Raylan Givens.
I like that Leonard made Barbara's behavior toward Harry believable after she found out he had an affair.
52 Pickup: Elmore Leonard's Card Game"If you want it, here it is, come and get itMake your mind up fastIf you want it, anytime, I can give itBut you better hurry 'cause it may not lastDid I hear you sayThat there must be a catch?Will you walk awayFrom a fool and his money?" --Paul McCartney, 1970Ever played 52 Pickup?
Leo has a cute little twenty one year old girl named Cini, working her way through school.Sometimes you hold all the cards.
In walks Harry Mitchell with a business client who wants a little fun.
Harry's client hits on Cini, but she's not playing.
However, Harry isn’t the kind of guy who is just going to allow himself to be extorted.This is vintage Elmore Leonard with slick plotting, off-beat characters and sharp dialogue.
The sub-plot about a union representative pushing Harry’s buttons about an upcoming negotiation seems to just disappear which is odd after (view spoiler)[the guy firebombs Harry’s car.
Or is he going to try to pin it on the union guy?
(hide spoiler)]Those are relatively minor complaints about a well crafted crime story by one of the all-time greats in the genre.
That's rich, coming from the mouth of a small time crook, trying to blackmail a middle aged guy having an affair with a much younger woman, but it is a rather good resume of the plot of this Elmore Leonard novel.
Actually, it could be said it is a fair assessment of most E.L crime capers, where nothing goes according to plan and things go pear shaped in an ugly way with obstinate regularity.I was curious about the title, but it only becomes relevant towards the middle of the book, so I'll pressent the story as it develops, with as little spoilers as I can:Harry Mitchell is a moderately succesful industrialist in Detroit, a self-made man who came up from the workshop floor to own now a manufacturing company for spare auto parts (of course, this is Detroit in the 70's, not the present day wasteland).
This is the third earlier Leonard book that I have picked up, and like the other two (MOONSHINE WARS and MR.
It keeps the novels short and fast.I would also argue that same quality keeps the books from reaching past a ceiling they always seem to hit.
A digression here, a red herring there, character traits that add depth but do not pertain directly to the story, backstory, a stronger sense of place, etc.
I like quick, lean stories with very little fat.
While I really do like Leonard's stories (and I plan to eventually read all of them), they are occasionally a little lean for me.
3.5Classic Elmore Leonard. I was really into this book at the start, impressed as usual by the character dialogue and building excitement to the story. Unfortunately, the build-up faltered and the story, which began to lag toward the end, came to an abrupt end with an anticlimactic close... as does this review.
Thus, by making a careful analysis of the strengths of Swag and the writing flubs in '52', a budding writer would find his/herself in a highly instructive laboratory -- for one of the best ways to learn any craft is by making a close examination not of the successful (as genius is often unrepeatable), but of failures and second-rate efforts.So the third star goes to the pedagogical value of this 'text'.The book itself, being one I didn't like.
from the Avon paperback back-cover blurb:  Detroit businessman Harry Mitchell was having a mid-life crisis. He had an attractive wife at home. He had a voluptuous girlfriend on the side. And now he had a problem with porn movies.He was in one.A man with a stocking over his head and a .38 in his hand wanted a hundred grand to keep Harry's picture out of circulation. But the hoods behind this blackmail scam made a big mistake when they fingered Harry Mitchell for their pigeon... With Elmore Leonar
Detroit businessman Harry Mitchell was having a mid-life crisis.
But the hoods behind this blackmail scam made a big mistake when they fingered Harry Mitchell for their pigeon...
There's no clever repartee between the main character and the bottom feeders who set him up to be blackmailed.
These guys aren't heist artists operating a clever con, they're just ruthless urban desperadoes with just enough education and street smarts to think they've dreamed up the "perfect crime".Highest possible recommendation.
What a joy to read, or in this case listen to.Elmore Leonard at his quirky, off beat, black humoured best.Three tough guys decide to blackmail Harry Mitchell, a Detroit Businessman, big mistake.Harry is not the man you would choose to stand over.
Unknown to Harry the goons are filming Harry and the girl in some tell tale scenes.
The goons take the film to Harry and tell him "it's $100,050.
A 4 star read.
Just like something straight from an episode of The Twilight Zone, the main character's bad decision comes back to get him - in the form of a home movie that captures his love affair. He's being blackmailed, and if he puts even one foot wrong, it'll mean that his wife sees the film. Or could it mean something even darker, like murder?Fifty-Two Pickup is a gripping, chilling and exciting novel and totally unpredictable. It's got interesting characters, a good plot and it's really worth reading.
I have not seen the film adaptation and will probably skip it as I always believe books are superior to the film in most instances.
I just read on Wikipedia that this film was set in L.A. which is an obvious negative for me.
It just wouldn't be the same.My one complaint was (view spoiler)[towards the end when Harry left his wife alone at home all day even after the thugs broke into his house TWICE.
From my quick internet research the title could have changed when the film was made in 1986?
) That series is based on characters created by Elmore Leonard, and specifically a short story called "Fire in the Hole".So after watching 2 seasons of Justified (all in the course of 3 weeks, but who's counting?) I was curious.
And just generally?Oh, somebody stop me.Anyhoo, the memory of how much I liked Roy Scheider is what compelled me to pick this up, and am I ever glad I did.
I think Elmore Leonard is famous for the dialogue in his books.
He don't know about me."Alan looked at him.
Man won't even know what hit him.""For what?" Bobby Shy said.
4-star Review:52 Pickup Elmore LeonardDISCLAIMER: My first mystery read in a long long time warrants a biased review at that.Set in the crime scene of Detroit, this mystery/noir novel chronicles the life of Harry Mitchell, a happy matrimony man/businessman, who's had a slip-up of sorts for the first time in his life in the form of a secret affair.
I think you going to dig this trip.Shit, you know as well as I do who done it.(Source)I especially enjoyed the pace of the novel, it kept me on my toes at all times.
I thought my first Elmore Leonard novel should be one that A) Had an impact on his career and B) Was set in Detroit. You could add to that, maybe, a book of his that was made into a movie. This book doesn't disappoint. Not as tightly plotted as, say a Westlake book, but moves along. I liked it.
The hero, Harry Mitchell, is standard flawed good guy stuff.
The ramifications of this problem, Harry's adultery, and how it touches (and ends!) so many lives is the effective subtext of the novel.
The exchanges between Harry and Barbara, Mitchell's wife, are a good showcase for those that appreciate Leonard's mastery of dialogue.
But what makes them a bit different than other Leonard exchanges, is that the topic is adultery, and how a married couple tries to deal with betrayal and damaged love.The downside: the ending.
But maybe that's the point, there is no neat package of an ending, since Harry's "mistake" was the first domino.
While the subplots do get in the way of the main story ("wife deals with husband's infidelity" and "union manager uses thug before contract talks" add very little in comparison to what they subtract from the book), this worked wonderfully for a quick read.
Truly, read any dialogue heavy section in this book and you will have a bachelor's in finding voice for characters, correct use of the word "said", writing dialect without dialect, subtext, and so much more.
No doubt there are other books of his that have better stories, better examples of dialogue or are more entertaining, but if you don't know where to start, 52 Pickup is a great choice.
*****.There’s a big smile on my face: the Library of America has just published the first in a projected three-volume set of the novels of Elmore Leonard.
Our businessman is an ex-Air Force member who has learned how to stay alive under the worst conditions, and puts his skills at logic and obfuscation to good use to get himself and his wife out of trouble.
If you have not read Leonard before, you are in for a treat.
I’m looking forward to reading the next three novels that are included.
52 Pick Up is the late Elmore Leonard’s tale of one Detroit businessman’s dealings with a trio of blackmailing thugs.
When his adulterous affair is caught on tape by the three men, Harry Mitchell is forced to either pay up one hundred thousand dollars or deal with the consequences.
If you know Elmore Leonard novels, then you know that there is only one choice for Mitchell.
I found the protagonist/villain confrontations to be a little cliché, the dialogue sort of forced, and the plot slow-moving.
Still, I’d be interested to check out some other Leonard novels in this genre.
The "Dutch" man always delivers.One cheating spouse and three blackmailers with a reel of film containing enough Kodak moments to make even Bill Clinton blush and that's only the beginning.This was made into two movies.
Talk about Blue Thunder...
the total page count for the newest trade paperback is 212 pp.; but they have the Kindle edition linked to an older mass market paperback with a total page count of 352 pp.
which creates an inconsistency in the % read (Example: Goodreads: 141/212 = 67% of book read; Kindle: 141/212 = 49% of book read.).

One of Elmore's best in my opinion, and dead-on Mr. Leonard's frequent formula: Joe Average gets mixed up with dumb criminals, almost loses everything, but straightens out the bad guys in a super-exciting big finish.warning -- I LOVE ELMORE LEONARD!A successful businessman has an affair and the girl sets him up with her criminal associates for blackmail and extortion.
But Mr. Businessman is a former combat pilot and -- like all great Leonard heroes -- refuses to take shit from anybody.
Look out bad guys.Read this novel is two seatings and couldn't wait for the ending, which we knew would involve a previously mentioned box of dynamite.
But how he pays and what happens as a result of his attempt to right his life becomes the stuff of the book.Throughout this novel, one keeps getting surprises about the protagonist.
Westlake Dortmunder series (where even the successful crimes don’t usually have the payoff expected).52 Pick Up is an experience akin to body surfing at a polluted beach.
Sure, the waves pick you up and give you a fast ride, but there is a smelly, polluted undertow that keeps trying to drag you under.
But film or no film, 52 Pick Up offers quick, page-turning suspense, just as you’d expect from Elmore Leonard.
The blurb on Amazon says, “But they’ve picked the wrong man, because Harry Mitchell doesn’t get mad – he gets even,” and for me that was the main weakness of the book, in terms of the implausibility of the hero’s go-it-alone actions.
At several points in the story, especially the beginning, you are yelling at Harry Mitchell to simply go tell the police.
Which is fair enough, but Leonard never really solves the implausibility problem, or gives us a believable enough reason why Harry Mitchell wouldn’t go to the cops.
But they've picked the wrong man, because Harry Mitchell doesn't get mad - he gets even.---------------------------------------------------------My take......This was a bit of a trip down memory lane for me.
Originally published in 1974, this was Leonard’s second or third foray into crime fiction having previously been penning westerns.Well did the passage of time and the reading of a thousand-plus books in the intervening 20 years, diminish my enjoyment second-time around?Hardly, I was still thrilled by the premise of the novel and the re-read came long enough after the first outing for me to have forgotten most of the detail and for the second visit to be fresh.
Over the years I've enjoyed the hell out of the many movies based on his books as well as his screenplays, but I've never been able to get into any of his novels.
However notice I did write that it had been years.
(view spoiler)[As a result his actions result in multiple murders as well as his wife being kidnapped, drugged (with multiple injections of heroin) and raped.
(hide spoiler)] Okay and I'm supposed to care about this jerk and sympathize with him?
Simply not what I was expecting to find when I opened up this novel.
Leonard's dialogue is wonderful and the main reason I loved the book.
Each character can be grasped and understood quickly thanks to the words they use.
It left we with a lot of questions and provides no answer - for example, minor spoilers, how can be Mitchell possibly get away with it?
It is straight out of a Hollywood film and doesn't work in comparison to the rest of the book.I loved reading 52 Pickup and I cannot wait to read more Leonard, especially the Raylan Givens series - as I started Justified recently as well.
There's something fascinating about a regular joe not just getting in over his head in bad trouble, but facing up to it and being enough man to handle it without flinching. Finding that we have unexpected strength and the capability to go to violent lengths to protect the things we love is a dream we all harbor, I think.
Actual rating 4.1My first Elmore Leonard read, heaps of fun, not a word wasted and a slick ending. Loving this suite of short, sharp, old-school crime novels I'm currently ploughing through.
Read this as part of Elmore Leonard: Four Novels of the 1970s: Fifty-Two Pickup / Swag / Unknown Man No. 89 / The Switch: but I think I also have it on Kindle standalone, so I figured I'd mark it as this as I make my way through the other three books.I don't know, man.
The half-asses are a adult theater owner with plans of making it big but no motivation to do much outside of getting teenagers high and sexing them up, a guy who runs a "model studio" where people can pay $20 bucks to take some pictures of nudes, and a drugged armed-robber who thinks of himself as calm but floats near murderous rage all the time.
