https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13168.Runaway_Ralph
Runaway Ralph (Ralph S.
Mouse, #2), Beverly ClearyRunaway Ralph is the second in a children's novel trilogy written by Beverly Cleary, first published in 1970.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: نهم ماه ژوئن سال 2002 میلادیعنوان: موش گریزپا؛ نویسنده: بورلی کلییری؛ مترجم: پروین علی پور؛ تهران، موسسه انتشارات مدینه، 1379، در 116 ص، مصور، شابک: 9646910041؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی قرن 20 مرالف، موش قهوه ای کوچک تنها موش هتل «چشم انداز کوهستان»، واقع در دامنه ی تپه های «سیرانوادا» بود که یک موتورسیکلت هم اندازه قدش داشت و میخواست از خانه فرار کند، چون از نصیحتهای بزرگترها و اذیتهای کوچکترها خسته شده بود.
Because schools so often assign them, over the last few years I've read and reread Cleary's "Dear Mr. Henshaw" and "Strider" countless times, but never went any farther into her catalog.
It's a little disconcerting to realize that a 90-year-old author wrote her books too late for you to read in childhood, but then Beverly Cleary is hardly your standard 90-year-old.
I especially enjoyed Cleary's bemused, and rather dead-pan renderings of the songs kids sing in summer camps and their underlying darkness (Ralph the mouse is terrified by "Little Rabbit Fru-fru...scooping up...field mice and banging them on the head").
I probably would have given this three stars had it come to a satisfying conclusion. Instead, it just sort of ends with the promise that everything is going to turn out all right. Aside from that, it's a rather dragging story, with small bursts of action between long sections of basically nothing. The character development, Ralph learning to appreciate his home life, doesn't seem genuine because of this. Still, I think children would enjoy it (and obviously do), so I couldn't give it one star.
When my friend gifted the first in the series as a birthday gift to me last year, I fell in love with him - a cute mouse who tucks his tail, hops on to a motorcycle to go racing in the dark!
I had to wait another year for another birthday to go by before my friend remembered to gift me the second in the series.In second book, Ralph has a series of adventures - he runs away, finds out what it is to live in a cage and ponder about life- and has to use all his wits to scramble out of the mess he dug himself into.
Cute little story - I especially liked all of the kid songs - "Greasy Grimy Gopher Guts", etc. I'd forgotten about most of those!
I liked the part where Ralph asked Garf if he could have a peanut butter sandwich when he was returning the watch to Lana. It was funny! Garf was already giving him the motorcycle back and he wanted a peanut butter sandwich because he was hungry and he likes peanut butter sandwiches.
I love this little mouse and wish I had a pet like him! This book was so much more fun than the first one, I thought. Can't wait to read the third and final (sadly) part.
We've been reading the when big brother is not home. They aren't my favorite read alouds, but my kiddo loves them!
We are huge fans of Ralph the Mouse in this household!
This wonderful series of books is charming for all ages...
This is an excellent read-aloud for young kids, even in first grade.
You can continue reading the Ralph books with your child, as he/she gets older -- or they may find the motivation to just read ahead themselves!
They are also a great way to revisit some of the terminology and products of the past.
My kids thought some of the things were hilarious when we explained them.
A great way to bridge the generations.
Marvelous author and marvelous book!
The kids enjoyed the story. Another classic from Beverly Cleary
I would just like to point out that this book is outdated in terms of animal care, such as cedar wood being used for hamsters and mice bedding. Cedar and pine are bad for small animals(birds, too) respiratory systems. Use Aspen or a paper bedding. Just had to say that, because it was bothering me! Also, just FYI, they need bigger cages than you might think! Do your research. :)The story itself, I still really enjoyed.
This story is about Ralph, the mouse, after he has received his motorcycle.
The setting of this story includes the hotel where he lives and the summer camp where he ends up.
The main problem in the story is that while at summer camp Garf (who isn’t very popular) is accused of stealing a watch from one of his fellow campers and enlists Ralph’s help returning it.
The story ends with Garf promising Ralph that not only will he bring him home, but that he’ll visit him after camp ends.
Ralph, who wanted to leave, returns home where he’s happier than ever!
کتاب خیلی دوست داشتنی بود.اصولا آثار خانم کلیری خواندنی هستند و لذت بخش.کتاب پر از ماجراهایی بود که یکی پس از دیگری شوکه تان می کردند، دقیقا همان لحظه ای که احساس می کردید قرار است نفس راحتی بکشید.
Cleary is a master of writing children and writing for children. From page 1, she establishes character and lays the foundation for character and plot development. We hung onto every word, laughing and cheering for Ralph. A satisfying read for the entire family.
I always liked pushing the limits seeing how fast or far I can go before I get hurt.Plot: In the beginning of the book Ralph has a miniature motorcycle.
So Ralph is made to let them ride his motorcycle, and after that is when he decides to runaway.
After a while of riding he ends up at Happy Acres Youth Camp.
Thematic Connection: The theme of the book Runaway Ralph is adventure.
I think the theme is adventure because at the beginning of the book all Ralph wanted to do was travel away, go fast and not slow down.
Ralph was given a motorcycle from a kid at the hotel in which he lived.
Some other characters in the book were: Garth, Matt, Catso, and Sam. Sam was the watch dog at the summer camp.
Matt and Garth were both humans who helped Ralph through the predicaments he found himself in.In the beginning of the book, the setting took place in the hotel where Ralph and his family of mice lived.
Then, the setting changed to the summer camp where Ralph adventured to.
This book would not be the same if it took place anywhere else but a summer camp.
Ralph can only ride his motorcycle at night because that is when no one in the hotel is awake and he can ride anywhere without getting in trouble.
When Ralph gets in a fight with his family, he decides that he wants to leave the hotel and runaway to a summer camp kids go.
He takes his motorcycle and drives all the way to the camp.
I don't think it was right for Ralph to run away, because he has never been outside the hotel and doesn't know what the real world is like.I think that the story takes place in the perfect setting.
This is important to the plot because being alone in a cage makes Ralph wish he could be with his family again.In the beginning of the book, Ralph wants to be independent.
He realizes that his parents were strict because they wanted him to be safe, and the outside world is dangerous for a mouse.One of the main themes in this book was that not everything is as good as it may seem at first.
He soon finds out that everything isn't what he thought it would be.I would recommend this book to anyone who likes reading a good children's story.
He decides to take matters into his own paws and ride to the nearby Happy Acres summer camp, where he has to contend with dogs, cats, kids and worn down motorcycle tires.I read the first Ralph book as a kid, but I'm pretty sure I hadn't read this one until now (and I'm nothing these days if not a completist).
Ralph is in fine form in this book, funny and a little sassy but definitely genuine, and his relationship with Garf takes his character and this world to a new dimension.
My favorite part of the book is when Ralph escapes from the hotel.This book is about a mouse that does not want to be a part of the regular mouse group.
Ralph stands up for Garth and helps him.
A couple other characters are Garth, Matt, Catso, and Sam. Sam is a dog that protects the summer camp.
Matt and Garth are both humans who help Ralph through the difficult situations.The book first starts in a hotel where normally mice live.
This book also takes place in a summer camp where Ralph gets into the most trouble.
i can relate to the books main character ralph because ive learned that we two are very alike.
LIKe me ralph loongs to go on an adventure of some kind, also he likes meeting new people and learning new things.
aanother way i can connect to ralph is how good he is with meeting new people, he is very putgoing and open minded.
these ways are gow i can connect to ralph in this book.i give this book 4 stars because i like how imginative beverly cleary was with the concept of the story, but also threw in some real life values.
Year: 1970Reading Level: IntermediateGenre: Real world fantasySeries: Mouse and the MotorcyclePlot Summary: Fed up with living with his pesky younger cousins and nagging relatives, Ralph leaves the rustic inn that is his home and strikes out for freedom on the open road.
In a bid for his freedom, Ralph launches a desperate escape plan, but the camp's cat isn't so keen on letting him go.Red Flags: NoneMy Rating: B+.
I loved and still love The Mouse and the Motorcycle, and while this one isn't as good, I still love the idea of a mouse being able to ride a motorcycle just by making the sound.
I liked the series and loved reading it go my two daughters.
They also enjoyed this story about a mouse who can talk and Understand certain children.
Ralph the mouse was given a toy motorcycle which would come to life when Ralph would make an engine revving up sound( pbbbbbaa).
since all the other mice in the hotel were related To Ralph they all demanded to ride the motorcycle as well.
So he runs away with his motorcycle and ends up at a summer camp and meets up with a new boy.
That's where Ralph's new adventures begins.
Great one to read to your kids.
I thought that "Runaway Ralph" but Beverly Cleary was a great book.
The book is about a mouse named Ralph who is very greedy and does not like to share his things.
One day his brothers and sisters want to use his motorcycle, but Ralph throws a fit and ends up leaving.
When he gets there things do not end up the way he thought they would be.
I thought this book was great and would recommend this to anyone over the age of 12, because there is some large vocabulary and it’s over 200 pages.
I enjoyed reading this book by Beverly Cleary.
Ralph is sick of living at the hotel and having to share his motorcycle with his family.
He decides to run away on his motorcycle to where ever it takes him.
Ralph ends up at a summer camp a few miles away from the hotel.
He becomes friends with the human and asks him if he can take Ralph back to the hotel where he belongs.
I would recommend this book to younger kids in elementart or middle school because it is easy to read and has childish humor.
I remember reading Ralph S. Mouse years ago in elementary school, so it was interesting to pick this one up so many years later and be able to jump right in. Ralph goes on an adventure to camp this time because he is bores of his life in the hotel. He heads out on his trusty motorcycle and ends up running into a nosy dog and a sneaky cat. He joins forces with a grumpy hamster and learns that sometimes home is better than the new adventures.
As my librarian said it would be, this one is not as good as the first one. I enjoyed reading it out loud to William at bed times, but I didn't enjoy it as much at the first one in most ways. The plot wasn't as interesting to me, Ralph's character didn't seem as strong or to grow, the other characters weren't as interesting. It is still worth the time to read, but not if you are only going to read one from the series.
The very first book I checked out from my elementary school library/media center. We own most of the Ralph S. Mouse series and they've been read many dozens of times to and by my kids. They're feeling a bit abandoned now, I think it's time to see if my local library or Riley Hospital for Children would like them.
I did not really like this book. It is about a mouse who runs away on his motorcycle to a nearby summer camp. At the camp he is put through many difficult tasks that he has to endure in order to survive. I recommend this book to children in middle schol, because it is easy to read and to understand.
I also didn't read this one during my childhood. It was an enjoyable, fast read. The mouse on the motorcycle was surprisingly easy to identify with. His terrors, joys, hopes, dreams, problem-solving skills, and empathy all seemed natural and of the right intensity to make the plot roll along.
