https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5053.The_Man_From_St_Petersburg
It’s fiction, but enough real-life characters and events are involved that is has an aura of a historical novel.A Russian anarchist is trying to assassinate a Russian Price, the son of Czar Nicholas.
The Prince is in London trying to negotiate an alliance between England and Russia against Germany in what is assumed to be an upcoming war.
The anarchist re-ignites the old flames to earn entrance into the home to try to assassinate the prince.Woven into the story are true historical events.
We have several just in the nick-of-time escapes and a brave main character managing to catch and disarm a nitroglycerine bomb.The characters are well-developed, especially the anarchist, his Russian former lover, and the daughter.
War seems all but inevitable, and intel indicates a low chance of Allied success unless the whole of the Triple Entente is prepared to throw their martial weight against Germany.This thriller has a lot to offer, from the international intrigue of anarchist subversion-ism hurled against the British secret police, an endearing and dynamic cast, chase scenes, to the masterful pacing and pitch-perfect dialogue, all encased in a historical backdrop that will lend the reader in a sense of familiarity with prewar London.
His artistry is one that burdens the reader with sorting the protagonists from the antagonists, enriching each character's complexion and back story with such brio that you may just end up pulling for the whole lot to triumph as the novel winds to a close.The Man From St. Petersburg is of course no exception, with Follett's tried and true, World War era-themed cat and mouse thriller once again taking center stage.
It takes a great writer to put history, suspense, psychological, and some romance into one book, and Follett is one of those great writers!The Man From St. Petersburg takes place in London, England in the early 1900's right before the start of the First World War. A mysterious man named Feliks travels to London to kill a man and change history.
The character of Feliks was very interesting, I was expecting him to be a cold-hearted killer but after getting to know him, I considered him a cross between James Bond and Darth Vader.
Awesome book!
I read this many years ago, and have now re-read it. It is a great thriller with an unusual twist: it may be that you consider the assassin (the man from St. Petersburg) to be the good guy with higher morals than those (the Brits) opposing him. The action sequences are superb, and the "teaching narratives" short enough and clear enough not to intrude.
Follett strikes again with another winner and he seems to favor this time period around World War 1 where this book time period is as was his masterpiece of Fall of Giants. Another 5 star rating for thrill, suspense, intriguing dialogue and historical characters( a young Winston Churchill)
Enjoyed this period thriller by Ken Follett.
It fit right in with reading I've been doing on both Russia and WWI.
Some of the plot details are a little fantastic, but because it's FOllett and he keeps things moving, the reader doesn't really have much time to sit and think about that.
You just want to turn the page, read the next chapter, find out what happens next.
IN retrospect, modern-day readers may agree that Felix's cause is the right one.
Follett throws a few surprises at us, keeps us guessing, in realistic-feeling depiction of prewar London.
Pegando nos relatos históricos e naquilo que é conhecido, o autor pega em personagens fictícios e insere-os no universo histórico sem qualquer dificuldade, ao ponto de o leitor chegar a pensar “esta pessoa pode realmente ter existido ao lado dos grandes nomes da Humanidade”.
Neste livro, O Homem de Sampetersburgo, somos transportados para Londres e para as grandes maquinações políticas entre Rússia e Inglaterra que tentam firmar um tratado que permita à Inglaterra o apoio russo caso os primeiros entrem na guerra.
Como um assassínio ao diplomata russo que se encontra em Londres em negociações com os ingleses.Durante a leitura deste livro apenas pensava que estas páginas descreveriam a calma antes da tempestade da primeira Guerra Mundial.
Uma obra-prima!Adorei este livro que me fez lembrar os clássicos russos, quer pela história quer pelo brilhantismo da escrita.
Durante a leitura não me saiu da memória Anna Karenine de Tolstoi, romance ao qual este se assemelha, sendo no entanto bem diferente.Lydia, uma jovem aristocrata russa apaixona-se por Feliks, um jovem anarquista, mas a sua paixão é descoberta e o pai da rapariga enreda uma forma de os afastar de forma definitiva e drástica.
Manda prender Feliks e torturá-lo enquanto que a Lydia lhe dá a oportunidade de se casar com um lorde inglês e ir viver para Inglaterra a troco da libertação do seu amado.
As I watched various vignettes of the Women's March on Washington yesterday, and saw  some really objectionable historical posters making fun of the suffragette movement, I was reminded of this novel.
But looking back, I think this may be one of his better novels with excellent characterisation and human drama.
Charlotte, the elder daughter of Lord and Lady Walden and pioneering suffragette, is excellently drawn - as is the description of the suffragette march, men jeering from the sidelines as the police systematically assault the activists.
I feel now that this novel questions the whole philosophy of capitalism and imperialism, and shows anarchists in a very sympathetic light.
Ο Κεν Φόλετ από τους κορυφαίους λογοτέχνες οι οποίοι έχουν επικεντρωθεί στο ιστορικό μυθιστόρημα. Με περίτεχνο τρόπο εναλλάσσει το πραγματικό με το μυθοπλαστικό, τους πραγματικούς ήρωες με τους μυθικούς δίνοντας σπουδαία βιβλία.
Clumsy.Clumsy in its account of class, suffrage, politics, relationships….Clumsy in its telling. Every paragraph should have begun ‘Coincidently…’ or ‘Conveniently…’Not for me.
It was really good most of the time I couldn't stop reading the book.
It seemed like I couldn't read fast enough because I wanted to see what was coming next so bad.
The book got really interesting when Feliks found out two of his supposed to be family members were in the family of the person he was trying to assassinate.
this strategy made sure the book never got boring, and it created the suspense of what the other characters were going to do.
All the times Feliks managed to get away were my favorite parts.
In this book, the Earl of Walden is convinced by Winston Churchill and King George to broker an alliance with Russia in 1914.
It is crucial that Russia align itself with England.The Earl of Walden's wife is from Russian aristocracy and her past is linked with a Russian anarchist.
Follett's style of writing is delicious to read and creates clear visions of each scene and character.
I understand why Follett put in the book to help connect the characters together at crucial points but this movement took away from the bigger issue of impending WWI.
Para tal, Lorde Walden tem de negociar com o seu sobrinho pelo lado da mulher, o príncipe Orlov, também sobrinho czar Nicolau II, que viaja até Londres com esse propósito.
Um início de século tumultuoso, é certo, mas acho que esta história não lhe faz jus.Embora o livro se leia muitíssimo bem e tenha este pano de fundo de violência e mudança, não amei.
Quanto ao assassino Feliks, embora tenha sentido pena dele em determinada altura, achei-o pavoroso de tão obcecado.Enfim, mais uma vez, acho que este autor tem romances históricos bem melhores.
Feliks, a Russian assassin comes to London to murder his target but comes in contact with his old love from 18 years prior. She is a lady and has one child - his child. The plot is a bit overly dramatic and predictable, but a good read.
I've read and loved many of Ken Follett's novels. This one was no exception. Beautifully drawn characters, great plotting and a wonderful storyline set just before the start of the First World War. It took me forever to read as I've been in a rare non-reading rut. Hopefully reading the last 250 pages today in one gulp has cured me. I've literally not been reading books at all - totally unlike me. (I've been weirdly obsessed with watching the circus in our capital these days...it's like watching a train wreck in slow motion and I have to look away...)
Ken Follett sure has written a hell of a lot of good books at this point in time.
Follett is perhaps the foremost author able to combine historical fiction with espionage fiction.
Around the same time --as he was building his career--he also conceived this interesting and fun little tale I'm reviewing now.
You won't come away wanting; Follett is too solid in his craftsmanship.
Follett does that.
At the same time, his prose is supple and breezy; one never gets 'bogged down' reading him.
Over time, I have come to regard this as one of Follett's most charming outings.
This is the second book I read from Follett and it changed my view on the world. It also changed my view on reading, authors, and my expectations of a book.Ken can do in few words what few authors can do with many. This story is set in the time of women suffragettes. He creates a passion for polarized people struggling to fulfill their destinies while constrained by the limits of their social and political environment.Exciting thriller--GREAT BOOK!!
You know a writer has nailed it when you find yourself sympathizing with every character. EVERY one of them. Who is the protagonist? Who is the antagonist? They are all so human. So multi-dimensional.
And yet, somehow, i found myself drawn into the story, into the characters (who seemed wooden in the beginning but entirely sympathetic and realistic in the end), and captivated by the portrait of a moment in history.
While the characters are made up people (i assume), and therefore the details of the story are made up, they are surrounded by enough of the details and feel of the historical period to not only make them entirely believable, but also to elucidate to us some of the human drama that made history turn out the way it did.
I enjoyed this book as I have all of Folletts books I've read.
I'm reading "How to Write a Blockbuster Novel" by Follett's editor, Al Zuckerman, and in that book, Zuckerman includes four complete drafts of the outline for "The Man From St. Petersburg." That's why I read it.
As I read through the four versions of the outline, and Zuckerman's commentary and recommendations to Follett on each of them, indeed it was clear that the goal was to write a blockbuster novel.
That's why its easy to forgive Follet all the coincidences and over dramatizations, because its so fun to read!
Love this book very much, but the ending...damn I wasn't expecting, i thought it would be go through the other way, that's why i just gave 4 stars rather than 5.
there were consequences, in terrible way, she ends up be forced to a marry with a lord to "save" her lover from being beaten to death.
Very good novel of Ken Follett, specially I recommend if you like historic fiction with a thriller taste.
I always like Follett's book, gives a sensation that we should be there to witness and "dive" in each story he presents.
Don't read this one first. Follett is a really entertaining writer and I think that this is one of his weakest texts. This is something that a Follett fan should read to understand how he has developed over the years, but I doubt it would spur "Follett mania" for the average reader.
3.5 I really enjoyed this book. It was super interesting though sadly I didn't love it as I was expecting to do so Me gustó bastante este libro. Fue super interesante aunque lamentablemente no lo amé como esperaba

What stood out with this novel - a historical thriller set just before WWI, involving politics, family, class, social commentary and a whole load more - was the high quality of the writing and plot.
It felt very well researched, very well created in terms of how aspects of the story fitted together, and very well written without using language which actively impressed.
I don't read many books of this genre, but I have formed a good impression of Follett's talent as a writer (and found out also that he wrote 'The Eye of the Needle', which was adapted into a very memorable and interesting film).
The Man from St Petersburg takes place in 1914 England at the time just before World War I and the Russian Revelation.
The British need to enlist the help of a Russian Prince who happens to be visiting Lord Walden.
A ruthless Russian Anarchist, Felix is also looking for him, to prevent the Czar from siding with the British.
The anarchist group think they are preventing a war.
Nothing is ever simple, Lord Walden's wife, Lydia is Russian and has left a past in Russia.
When Lydia was young she had an affair with a young anarchist who turns out to be the assassin who has been entrusted with the killing of the Prince.
Enjoyable fast reading book that basically revolves around an anarchist who is trying to kill a Russian Prince who is in England to work on a Treaty with the British in 1914.
Of course there are a lot of unbelievable plot twists and while I enjoy Follett this book just is a little too unbelievable for me.
Follett does a good job with his characters and his plotting of the book and effortlessly transports us back to 1914, but the plot gets convoluted when all of the family issues become involved and I truly do not believe that the characters in the book would have acted and behaved as he writes it.
The Russians sends the Czar’s nephew, Prince Orlov, to England to investigate and negotiate a treaty in secrecy.
The anarchists feel the Czar is trying to drag innocent Russian peasants into fighting a war they neither care about, nor believe in.
So to prevent disaster, the anarchists send the infamous Feliks Kschessinsky to assassinate Prince Orlov.
There were other characters there weren’t as fleshed out, namely, Prince Orlov, the man who Feliks is trying to assassinate.
If I knew more about Orlov, his fate would have mattered to me more – but since I know nothing about him, except that he’s the Czar’s nephew, I could care less about what happens to him.
