https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/106125.Bone_Vol_3
Hikaye güzelleşiyor. Ejderhalar, Çekirgelerin Efendisi, Krallıklar, Son Savaş...Olaylar, olaylar...
Just as enjoyable as the last two volumes. The mysteries deepen here, progressing the story forward steadily. No idea where this is headed, but I’m enthralled enough to find out.
Picking up where Book #2 ended, Phoney Bone and Smiley Bone are working off their debt to Lucius, while Fone Bone and Thorn are having really strange dreams. Grandma Ben reacts awfully strangely when she hears them talking about it. After avoiding them and dealing with the rat creatures again, she eventually reveals a secret to them that is a game changer. I like Ted because "bugs know a lotta stuff folks wouldn't s'pose they'd know."
I like how the plot got more serious in this one. Can't wait to start next one.
A beautifully illustrated adventure. Every panel is carefully crafted and draws you into the strange world of Bone. Wish I read this as a kid.
Prica pocinje da se zahuktava i postaje malo mracnija. Mada Thornina prolost je malo kliseizirana al dobro. U svakom slucaju zabava se nastavlja :)
This could mean they have to leave for good!Characters- Fone Bone- One of the three bone cousins who got chased out of Boneville and eventually found themselves in the valley.
He also has a secret affection for Thorn.Thorn- Thorn is the grandchild of Gran'ma Ben. She is tough, smart, and strong.
She is tough, strong, smart, and great at fighting the rat creatures.Phoney Bone- another one of the three Bone cousins who got chased out of Boneville.
He was the mayor of Boneville and was the cause of the three cousins getting chased out.
This is the third book of the bones series.
The series is a graphic novel Fantasy series.
In this book Fone Bone and Thorn are having really strange dreams and Grandma Ben is reacting oddly when she hears them talking about it.
They may have to leave the farm for ever.Mean while Smiley and Phoney are with Lucius at his bar working of a debt they owe.
Then Phoney makes a bet with Lucius.
Who could be the better bartender?I would recommend this book for people who like fantasy.
But I would recommend reading the first two books first.
Now it's getting good! This began as a simple cartoon with tiny glimmers of a darker understory and now, almost 600 pages in, we are finally getting to the meat. I can see why so many people love this. It's a very, very slow boil, but if I were reading this as it was written, I don't know that I would have been patient enough to get this far.I am really looking forward to book four.
Thorn was dreams about great red dragon and stranger things, too. Sadly, her parents was died. She shocks that her parents were king and princess of Atheia.
Gotta love fone bone
These books are great!!! I love these graphic novels this one is full on action packed!!!
In Volume 3 of the Bone series, we finally get our first glimpse into the real depth of this story. What will unfold over the next 6 volumes? I can't wait to find out!
2015 rereadI find this volume difficult from a ratings perspective.
If you are reading all of the volumes back to back, as you should be, there is nothing wrong with this volume.
It's a fast and entertaining volume that propels you into the next volume.But by itself...
if you were reading these as they were released and had to wait what would seem like forever between volumes...
It is a crucial volume to the overall story arc, but other than that, the most interesting portion is the bet, and that's just getting going in this one.
I didn't get into this installment as much, although I enjoyed the Moby Dick spoof.
This volume ends with a possibly interesting setup for the next book's storyline, but I find I am not interested enough to continue.
The information comes too slowly for me and without another cow race (see Volume 2), there is nothing to keep me in it for the long haul.I was slightly disturbed that Thorn, the main female character, seems to be wearing less and less clothing as the series goes on.
What happens to the storyline when she runs out of clothes?
He is the comic relief throughout the novel and even though he is the village idiot character, the author writes him in such a way that you aren't left face palming after he says or does something, but rather laughing or grinning like an idiot.
I look forward to the antics of the two sentries that wander about on their own in search of food and ways to make quiche.
Yet again an awesome volume in this epic saga. The world gets enriched once more (what's up with that locust dude?) and the humour is fantastic. I'll quickly dive into part 4!
Odlično, svaki nastavak je sve bolji.
I liked this comic and I enjoyed the plot of this hilarious book.
really wild.
I like how it puts time in between each book so some things have changed and they look different. Also they open the book into some sort of job or dream witch is also different from other books i have read.
SPOILER!!!! It was a great book there is some action when there is rat creatures. Also there is some conflict between rose and her grandma throughout the story it turns out she is a princess and her parents were killed saving her. Another thing is her grandfather owns a bar and challenges fone bones cousins to see who will make the most money by selling beer.
I was unable to get the chance to read the first Bone book, so I skipped straight to the third book.
I enjoyed reading this book a lot, it had some funny moments and also some very serious moments.
I like the illustrations a lot, they were ver clear and made the book so much better.
While I was reading this book I found it a bit weird how some random characters came in and out of the story.
I would like to continue reading the Bone series and I will start by reading book number one because before I did not get the chance to read it.
We all read it independently and I'm so glad that our girls like the story.
We are all hooked!My husband enjoyed collecting comic books when we were a lot younger and when I would accompany him on his trips to the comic book store, I would often pick up an issue of Bone.
Now that they've met the adorable Bone family, they are eager to read more.
I see that this third volume includes issues thirteen through twenty of the comic, so it's nice to get so much of the story all at once.
Si no llega a las cuatro estrellas es por algún bajón narrativo y algún que otro caprichito mío.
Sigue manteniendo el espíritu inocentón y cándido de las primeras aventuras, pero la sombra del pasado ya va cubriendo a los personajes, varias verdades salen a la luz y la cosa se está poniendo jodida de verdad.
Pero se le perdona, y seguro le sabrá sacar un buen jugo.
Cuando lo relea o tenga menos sueño seguro me explique mejor ampliando esta reseña o reemplazándola por otra bien escrita.
Lo leí de la edición de bolsillo en tapa blanda, que cuando pueda seguro suba.
Another great book in the bone series.
Smiley and thorn tell each other about their dreams when their grandma walks in.
Then smiley, phoney and Lucias are riding to the Barrel tavern when rat creatures attack.
Once they make it to the tavern Phoney and Smiley gotta work off their wagers from the cow race at the barrel haven.
Phone bone, Thorn and grandma get lost in the woods when they run into rat creatures.
then red dragon comes out of no where and chases all the rat creatures away!
It was funny, had action and Phone bone tries to get some romance.
3.14159 stars.
Thorn learns her grandmother's a lying two-face with a hidden past.
Gasp!
Grandma Ben's been protecting Thorn and keeping Thorn's past hidden as well- even from Thorn herself.
Only now, Thorn knows and she doesn't know how she feels about what she's learned.
As they walk off into the sunset- or flee that impending army of rat creatures, however you want to look at it- I can only hope she sucks it up and puts on her big girl pants because I read this for the comedy, dammit!
>:{}P.S. I miss the rat creature duo, Stinky and Smelly.
This volume kicks up the dream factor a notch. I find the dream sequences to be more traditional fantasy then the rest of the story, except for the Moby Dick inspired dream chapter. Phone Bone is moving alone with the main story. Phoney Bone is still trying to be as shifty as possible. Smily Bone is still dim. The rat creatures are still causing trouble for everyone. I feel this will be a common yet effective pattern throughout the whole story arc."Thar she blows!!"My Son: "Daddy, why does she blow?"
Much more interesting than I was prepared for. The throw-back youthfulness and simplicity of the artwork, and the fantasy genre of the material, had set me up for the kind of story that isn't usually up my alley, but the character work and the subtext of both the dialogue and the artwork made for a fun and eventually fascinating read. By the time I finished this, I wished I'd started at the beginning and was itching to read the rest.
Phew! I read this third volume so quickly that I'm not sure what to write. I know this installment was good: it is a tense, fast-paced read. Secrets are revealed and the reader is left wondering about many other things. I'm glad I'm not reading the series when it was first published. It's nice to be able to pick up the next volume when volume 3 leaves you dying to know what will happen next.
