https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2593137-tenting-to-night
In 1916 Mary Roberts Rinehart wrote a book about her trip through the eastern portion of the park with Howard Eaton.
Here is their usual manner of starting off each day's ride: Pete would bring Angel to me, and I would vault into the saddle—extremely figurative, this—and we would fall into line, Pete swaying with the cowboy's roll in the saddle, the Optimist bouncing freely, Joe with an eye on that pack-horse which carried the delicacies of the trip, the Big Boy with long legs that almost touched the ground, the Middle Boy with eyes roving for adventure, the Little Boy deadly serious and hoping for a bear.
Not her usual fanfare. Travelogue of the Pacific Northwest with lots of comic relief. It is about an extended "vacation" trip through the Glacier National Park before the area was developed for tourism. Trip was largely done on horseback and on trails that were at times poorly marked or unmarked. It took a lot of courage to attempt a trip like this, even more to complete it successfully. I highly recommend this book to fellow Rinehart fans.
I highly recommend this short book to anyone who 1) loves camping 2) loves national parks or 3) has a fondness for Glacier National Park. Written 100+ years ago by woman who had been a war correspondent and a mystery novel writer, it is written with both awe of an unexplored area and wonderful humor. A very different camping experience than we know these days!
Great readFun to see the PNW through the eyes of the past. How I would have loved to see the unspoiled land and fished in pristine waters. Now the bull trout is almost fished to extinction. Sad. I enjoyed this very much.

Wow, these books so inspired me as a kid that Between Rinehart and my parents, I have a love of wilderness and camping. The Glacier trip and North Cascades was a different wilderness than when I have visited, as in REALLY SCARY. Rinehart was a hero to me. I camp and wish I would have also picked up a pen and written more...
In this book, she tells of her travels in what is now Glacier National Park in 1916.
She and her family, along with many guides and naturalists, take off on horseback to cross from Montana into the Cascades in Washington.
Her prose is clean and crisp, and she does a good job of keeping the reader engaged in the events of this unusual (for the time) trip for a woman, her husband, three sons, brave horses, and all of the guides, cooks, etc.
I love books that can so completely transport me to another time and place.
Lacking important detail. Interesting to read the perspective of the era.
