https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13079982-fahrenheit-451
When does a 12 year-old boy like anything that his mother does?
Let the firemen come, I think, I am proud to be a book-reader.
I continue to read this book again and again through the years.
As the years roll by, and I age through my 20s and 30s, I noticed that fewer and fewer of the people I know read any books.
I watched the movie and felt like a traitor.The last time I read F451 was about 10 years ago - I think I was afraid that if I were to pick it up again that it would diminish in its importance to me - much like Catch-22 and The Sun Also Rises.
That this man, product of a culture that devalues reading and values easy, thoughtless entertainments designed to deaden the mind and prevent serious thought, could come to find literature so essential that he would kill for it...!
There is no doubt in my mind that it is essential, if not for all individuals (although I find it hard to imagine life without books, I know there are some people who don't read for pleasure, bizarre as that seems to me), then for society.
Books don't contain any hard-and-fast answers to all of life's questions.
It contains archetypes, misconceptions, and an author surrogate, but can still be seen as a slighting view of authority and power, and of the way people are always willing to deceive themselves.Unfortunately, Bradbury did not seem to recognize that reading has always been the province of a minority and that television would do little to kill it.
And there's nothing new about that, either: cheap, trashy novels have been a joke since the Victorian.Television is a different medium than books, and has its own strengths and weaknesses.
I read a lot of books as a kid and watched a lot of TV, and each medium provided something different.
But here's what I do know: the average world life expectancy is higher, the infant mortality rate is lower, access to education is greater and the amount of countries that hold regular, fair elections has increased.On average, people today are smarter than they were fifty years ago.
The author was writing at a time when technology was really starting to get funky, the digital age was still decades away but people were doing all kinds of crazy things like listening to music with little cones plugged into their ears.
You can check out thousands of better reviews here and across the internet, but here is all you really need to know...This is one of the best books ever written.
Then, in one sitting just plow the hell right through this book.
Let it elevate itself high above pretty much every other book you've ever read, maybe all the way to the top of that damned prestigious mountain, and let it hoist its flag into the soil of your mind and proclaim to every other book ever written that it is king of literature.
Maybe the best day of your life!
Those of you who know me understand that this is that I detest most about classics, tied with how everyone reveres them without reading them.The Coda and Afterword just add to the confuse making me confused on whether Bradbury is a very hateful man or just a hypocrite.
The main plot of the novel itself is that the majority rule canceled out intellectualism while in the Coda (maybe Afterword, I don't remember which was which) Bradbury blasts minorities (all, including racial, religious, etc.) for creating an overly sensitive society.
If you do need to read this book, I suggest a Cliff Notes version as long as you can appreciate that irony.
"We are living in a time when flowers are trying to live on flowers, instead of growing on good rain & black loam." (111)What outstanding prose--prophetic, which is by far the most rare and inspiring of attributes a work of literature can ever possess.
And Ray "I Don't Talk Things, Sir. I Talk The Meaning Of Things" Bradbury is here at his absolute best.
(If you are a lover of books, this seems like some Dantean form of poetic retribution!) "451" is an example of when planets aligned just right and gave the writer a light for him to share.
"الأفكار ليها أجنحة ماحدش يقدر يمنعها توصل للناس"ـــــــــــــــإذا كنت قد شاهدت الكتب تحترق في فيلم العبقري يوسف شاهين ووقعت في غرام الفيلم والمشهدفربما هذا الكتاب يكون لك*-*عندما تصبح قراءة الكتب جريمةفي هذه الرواية يطرح راي برادبوري أسوأ سيناريو لعشاق الكتبماذا لو كنا نعيش في عالم تخلص نهائياً من الكتب وجرم من يحملها أو ينقلها أو يحتفظ بها؟مونتاج هو بطل الرواية يعمل كرجل حريقومهمته ليست إطفاء الحرائق كما قد تظن بل إشعالها!وقبعات رجال الحريق تحمل الرقم 451 ومنها إستمدت الرواية عنوانهايصحو مونتاج من النوم ، ينظر إلى زوجته ، ترقد جواره كجسد في قبرلا يشعر بشيءربما بعض الأسى ، اللامبالاة ، وكثير من الملل والاختناقيخرج لسانه لوحش اللإضطراب النفسي الذي ينهشهماتبتلع الزوجة قرصاً ،، تشاهد التلفازستقوم كالعادة بمحاولة إنتحار جديدةيمضي مونتاج إلى عملهكان من الممتع أن تحرقIt was a pleasure to burn!
Not everyone was born free and equal, as the Constitution says, but everyone made equal… Then all are happy”, protected from the “rightful dread of being inferior”.•	“Our civilization is so vast that we can’t have our minorities upset and stirred”, so everything that might upset anyone is destroyed.•	Filled with facts, people “feel they’re thinking… they’ll be happy because facts of that sort don’t change.”•	“All the silly things the words mean, all the false promises, and all the second hand notions and time-worn philosophies.”Dangers of VRThere is bitter irony in a “living room” where the only “living” is that of fictitious people, passively observed on the huge screens on the walls.•	Entering the bedroom “was like coming into the cold marbled room of a mausoleum after the moon had set.”•	“Her eyes fixed to the ceiling by invisible threads of steel, immovable.
There's the hot underage Manic Pixie Dream Girl - "her face fragile milk crystal" - who teaches him how to smell dandelions (and whose beauty is harped on endlessly) and then disappears off-stage; Faber, who's all of a sudden like best friends and then disappears off-stage; the bonfire circle of retired professors who happen to be right there when he stumbles out of a river looking for them.There's his wife - "thin as a praying mantis from dieting, and her flesh like white bacon." He seems to loathe her, and all real women."Millie?
Bradbury blames his world's disgust with books on "minorities," what we nowadays call "special interest groups":"Colored people don't like Little Black Sambo.
The burning of books is such an effective tool, so the message of Ray Bradbury’s Fahrenheit 451 is scarily real; if society’s wisdom could be taken away then so could their freedom; if knowledge was burnt then the people would be left in a complete state of utter innocent ignorance.
He carries out the book burnings, like the others, without a second thought until one day an innocent young girl changes his life forever.
You don’t stay for nothing.”The books are being destroyed to reinforce ignorance and achieve a docile population.
A powerful allegory that also works well as a prima facie argument against censorship and a good science fiction novel all by itself.Bradbury has stated that the novel is not about censorship, but a story about how television destroys interest in reading literature, which leads to a perception of knowledge as being composed of factoids, partial information devoid of context - and I can see that (and in an age of Vine and Twitter this message is all too relevant), but for me the image of the ironic fireman burning books is the endearing story.This is a book that everyone should read at least once.
Most of all, it is a declaration of love for books in an era of fast entertainment and instant gratification as a means of political control of the masses.I used to think Brave New World and 1984 - or a combination of those two - had a more accurate take on human mind-slavery in the age of technology than "Fahrenheit 451".
Those rare students that like reading can't share their interest with anyone anymore, and it doesn't spread:"With school turning out more runners, jumpers, racers, tinkerers, grabbers, snatchers, fliers, and swimmers instead of examiners, critics, knowers, and imaginative creators, the word 'intellectual,' of course, became the swear word it deserved to be."What Bradbury meant as satire is my work reality.So what have I done myself, hopeless book lover that I am?
This was my first Ray Bradbury book.
"I CANT IMAGINE A WORLD WITHOUT BOOKS!!!!!" I have in my hands a copy of the 60th Anniversary Edition.
Just beautiful introduction about Fahrenheit 451 being speculative fiction....."if this goes on......." story.
Ray Bradbury was writing about his present, which is our past.
-- and that is even 'more' frightening!Towards the end of the copy of this 60th Anniversary edition is "The Story of Fahrenheit 451".
( sorry for laughing at Bradbury's suffering when the typewriter would jam.....but I think his story will be helpful to me on those days when I have computer breakdowns-- in the COMFORT of my own home!!!!Fabulous- - great excerpts on every page - A STAND FOR INTOLERANCE!!!
~Φαρενάιτ 451~"η θερμοκρασία στην οποία το χαρτί των βιβλίων πιάνει φωτιά και καίγεται..."Ο άνθρωπος των βιβλιοθηκών,αυτοχαρακτηρίζεται ο συγγραφέας αυτός με την απίστευτη διορατικότητα.
Αυτός ο δυστοπικός επαναστάτης έγραψε ένα τόσο φανταστικό-αλληγορικό αριστούργημα που καταλήγει να είναι επιλήψιμα ρεαλιστικό και τρομακτικά διαχρονικό.
Τόσο απόλυτο και λευκό που πονάς απο την ακτινοβολία.
Σε αυτό το εκπληκτικό ανάγνωσμα αναδεικνύεται το ολόλευκο φως των βιβλίων μέσα απο την κατάμαυρη στάχτη τους.
Οι ελάχιστοι διασώστες βιβλίων και πολιτισμών είναι παρίες και αποδιωγμένοι απο τους νοσηρά ηλίθιους κατασκευασμένους και σύγχρονα κλωνοποιημένους πολίτες.
Μόνοι τους υποτίμησαν και εξάλειψαν τα βιβλία.
Here is a future world where books are banned, and look at this; it has gone to the dogs.
The saddest of all post-apocalyptic worlds, the bleakest dystopia, what a nightmare – NO BOOKS!The good are those who read, the bad are those who watch the TV.
And because of that we are seemingly willing to forgive Bradbury for a lot of things: really poor world-building skills, lacklustre characterisation, inconsistencies.
Now, this to me does look like a very sad world indeed.Go and read Farenheit 451.
The problem with this book is the same problem there is with a world without books – it’s somewhat flat, somewhat numb.

Es una sociedad controlada por fármacos, y se distancia mucho de la de Oceanía, de "1984", en donde vive Winston, allí las cosas son más difíciles e incluso mucho más peligrosas aún que las de "Fahrenheit 451".En "Fahrenheit 451", su personaje principal, Guy Montag es parte de un cuerpo de bomberos que no apaga incendios sino se dedica a quemar libros de aquellos descarriados que el sistema no llega a controlar hasta que son denunciados, porque como digo al principio, el poder que controla todo es peligroso que el ser humano piense, se valga por sí mismo, se apoye en lo que escritores, filósofos y pensadores y queda evidenciado en el pensamiento del capitán Beatty, jefe de Montag y del cuartel de bomberos cuando insidiosamente sostiene: "Un libro es un arma cargada en la casa de al lado.
which is, of course, inaccurate and ridiculous - poor alyssa is a nineteen year old girl who has not read any philip roth, and wasnt able to recommend a title to the (fifty year old) man but has probably read more books than most people you will pass on the street today.
so i just started thinking about all the books i havent read that are canonical (not philip roth - ive read four and its plenty) but, say, fahrenheit 451.
even if you havent read it, you know what it is about, and i think it makes important points, but it just wont make my all-time-favorite list.
ليس أن تجمع الأشلاء والدماء والقمع والحروب في رواية واحدة فتطلق عليها بضمير مرتاح لقب (رواية ديستوبيا) !..هكذا يضحك السيد برادبوري وهو يمنحنا رواية من مائتي صفحة فقط، كدرسٍ بليغٍ ومكثّف لكيف تُكتب الرواية ذات المدلول والمغزى العميقين حقًا.يربِّت على شعار زيّه مستمدًا منه بعض الطمأنينة.
الكتب تدفع المرء للتفكير، وفي هذا كل الخطر..
Reading Fahrenheit was an eye opener.
I thought that the golden and silver eras of science fiction had works that have aged with the grace of the Rolling Stones.
But here is a book to prove me wrong.Fahrenheit might be the book by which I rate and measure and gauge and review science fiction books.
I wish this is not a false dawn, nor an exception to the rule.The book's theme is crisp in its actuality.
This was a prophetic book.
I rejoiced in the perfect pace that was contained in so relatively few pages.
My wavering belief in science fiction has been stabilized.
After all, as the title of the book indicates, this is that story about "burning books." But Bradbury goes way deeper than some mere indictment of fascism.
But as one character points out, government doesn't do anything that the people aren't already calling for and this assault on books is really just the natural byproduct of a society full of self-absorbed people who are pulling away more and more from any kind of thought deeper than what their television asks of them.
The story itself follows the transition of Guy Montag, from a book-leery, burn-happy "fireman" into a man who is on the run for not only possessing books, but killing a fellow fireman to protect them.
Such an enlightening read.
There’s so much depth to this story, of his analysis of society, that I’m finding it difficult to put my thoughts into words.
This is the type of book that one can read and every paragraph would bring about beautiful discussions.
It’s passionate.
It’s written with so much love and wisdom, and emotion.
In my privileged state of mind, I’m unable to fathom having no access to books, because of the ease I have now.
But censorship was a law and the way it’s tackled in this book is quite incredible.
Really enjoyed this book a lot!
Of all the post-apocalyptic tales I have read, this is probably the simplest yet most terrifying.Published only 4 years after 1984, it is obvious where post WWII fears were driving our mindset.
And, in our current political climate, fears like this are coming aground again: war, government control, freedom lost, etc.If you love modern dystopia, but have not read this .
you need to!If you are a fan of classics and have not read this .
you must!It is not a happy tale - it is deeply disturbing with very little hope, but maybe the more people that are aware of its message the safer our future will be.There is some really terrifying fan art out there for this book:
I remembered enjoying Ray Bradbury's Fahrenheit 451 several years ago.
There are some great dystopian novels out there--1984, Handmaid's Tale, Brave New World, Oryx & Crake.
What's different about Fahrenheit 451 is the sense that it is okay to hope for better days.
Margaret Atwood's Handmaid's Tale, for instance, ends well after Offred's story has ended and Gilead is an academic subject rather than an oppressive government.
While there is concern that knowledge is under attack (both in Fahrenheit 451 and in current debates), Bradbury lets us hope that knowledge will win out, that the future will win out.
The first sentence, "It was a pleasure to burn", and the following description after, had me convinced that I would enjoy the book.
My real problem is that I don't feel anything when I was reading Fahrenheit 451, except maybe frustration.
The book doesn't have any effect on me because the metaphors and flowery descriptions are so distracting.
The writing in the entire book is disjointed and strange, and that should have been fine, because such a style has potential for creating a disturbing, off feeling; that would fit a dystopian book.
In Ray Bradbury's creepy classic, Montag is your typical modern fireman , burning books for a living with his dedicated gang.
Yet doubts come when a nearly 17 -year- old curious girl, a nextdoor neighbor, starts asking Guy Montag, many uncomfortable questions, Clarisse McClellan admits she's crazy.
Captain Beatty starts getting suspicious of Montag, the mechanical pet dog, also, it likes killing rats, the four legged kind I mean, and hates our great hero.
This warning of a maybe world, in the years to come , is still relevant today , though so much time has passed.
He becomes convinced that what society has labeled as wrong and anti-social is more real than anything he's experienced in a long time.
And, being a fireman, Guy knows, more than anyone, the price that is demanded of people who dare to think, read, and entertain original thoughts.Fahrenheit 451 was shocking to me.
Ray Bradbury predicted internet/social media addiction long before such things existed.
He is a natural fit for this material and I highly recommend it.The only annoying thing about listening to the audiobook is Bradbury's use of repetition to build the tension and pound his ideas home.
الرواية الكابوس عالم اليوم :انظر ..
عالم مبني على الخيال، تعبيرات مصطنعة على شكل حبوب، حرب نفسية على شكل إعلانات، كيمياويات لتبديل و تبديد العقل على شكل طعام، ندوات لغسيل المخ على شكل وسائل الإعلام، فقاعات منعزلة بإحكام في شكل وسائل التواصل الإجتماعي، بطولة زائفة في شكل أبطال زائفين، دين جديد في شكل عبادة المال، حرب استنزاف واسعة في شكل تبعية كل ما هو جديد هل ما نعيشه حقيقي ؟ ..
عالم بدون معرفة ..
عالم بدون روح !!
لكنهم يقولون جميعاً الأمور نفسها ولا يقول أحد أمراً مختلفاً عما يقوله أي شخص آخر، وفي معظم الأحيان تكون صناديق النكات في المقاهي مفتوحة وتكرر ذاتها في الغالب.
Thank you Justin for kicking my ass in gear to read this masterpiece!So you ask, what happened when I finally read Fahrenheit 451?I read it in one day!!!!
I shook my head with the similarities of a book wrote in 1953 and the current world and events today.Burning books is such an effective tool to leave society less intelligent and reinforce their ignorance.
Do your own bit of saving, and if you drown, at least die knowing you were heading for shore.”And another quote Bradbury described perfectly in this book.“The good writers touch life often.
