https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77787.Specter_of_the_Past
Zahn's return to the Star Wars genre was every bit as satisfying as his first foray.
On the other hand, Specter is less of a stand alone than his first three novels.
This volume serves as a four hundred page introduction to the companion Vision of the Future.
Excellent cover art by Drew Struzan.After second reading: Zahn is so much better than the norm for SW writers that he should either train the others or be the only person allowed to publish until the others come up to his level.I've raised by rating a star in comparison to other SW books.
This book is still much, much, much better than a lot of the Star Wars novels I've read, but it's not as good as I remember it being.
It's definitely not a satisfying book on its own.
You need to read both books of the duology to get a full story arc (and if I'm remembering correctly, which may very well not be the case, it turns out to be a doozy).Anyways, I'm going to go drink more sangria and maybe watch some Star Trek: Voyager.
Yup. I was watching Star Trek while writing about Star Wars.
Kristine Kathryn Rusch’s “The New Rebellion” came damn close, and Roger MacBride Allen’s “Corellian Trilogy” had its moments, but I was beginning to feel the stirrings of something I never thought I’d feel while reading a Star Wars book: boredom.Which brings me to: Thank God for Timothy Zahn.
Zahn clearly knows “Star Wars”, and he also clearly knows the formulaic conventions of science fiction without his book seeming formulaic.Hands down, “Specter of the Past” is the best SWEU novel I have read thus far.
A Quickie ReviewTimothy Zahn may have been the one that kicked Star Wars literature into high gear with the original Thrawn trilogy, but his writing style has always left something to be desired, in my opinion. The story itself is as involving as the movies, and has a great cliffhanger ending; still, some folks may not find it worth trudging through Mr. Zahn's awkward prose to do it.Score: 3.75/5
Zahn captures the essence of Star Wars from the characters (Luke, Han, and Leia finally returning to a semblance of the characters from the movies who have naturally grown over the 15 some odd years) to the galaxy (creating new worlds that feel in place in our Star Wars setting and revisiting old ones) to the plot (imitating the then-unseen prequels in a haunting parallel).
Zahn mentions the destruction of Coruscant from Kueller's bombings (The New Rebellion), Lando's stupid search for the Qella artifact (Black Fleet Crisis), and Callista (Children of the Jedi).
Since finishing Timothy Zahn's Thrawn Trilogy, I couldn't wait to track down the follow-up Hand of Thrawn duology.
Specter of the Past I believe does a good job serving the sequel role.In this book, a decade has gone by since the defeat of Grand Admiral Thrawn, and the New Republic has been recovering since.
But there's a new threat of political upheaval when evidence surfaces that entangles the Bothan people who may have been behind the destruction of a planet before the Clone Wars.
Previously, the villain of nearly every EU work had been the Empire, which was still fighting back against the New Republic.
He's up against quite a bit of opposition within the Empire, though.As with the Thrawn trilogy, characterization and plot are Zahn's strengths.
He doesn't have nearly as many repeated verbal tics in this book as he did in the earlier trilogy, but he does overuse quotations from the movies and references to other events in the Extended Universe, which can get a little annoying.
Probably at least one star of my enjoyment of this book came solely from his marvelous presentation.
This book leaves Mara in the precarious situation, and that's honestly the thing that makes me want to read the next one the most.
He wasn't someone I cared about much before, one way or the other, but he's very interesting here.I'm assuming that this book plays off continuity established by other books in the Star Wars universe in the ten years between the Thrawn Trilogy and this, because there are loads of references to things characters have done.
I need to find all the good Luke/Mara books.
The first 3/4 of this book was extremely slow and boring, I'm not a fan of his writing style, but once I got into the last six or so chapters it got way more interesting!
Specter of the Past is a great book if you like Star Wars or science fiction, although there is some back history from Zahn's previous trilogy that makes me recommend starting there first.
Those other factions use a secret document from the Emperor's cache on Wayland to polarize parts of the New Republic while promoting a new rallying point for the Empire.This is back from the more "golden age" of Star Wars before the prequels changed things, so it feels more like it belongs with the original trilogy.
(view spoiler)[Sigh.
I vowed I wouldn't read this book because I don't want to accept the fact that Thrawn died at the end of The Last Command.
But I digress.Anyway, I didn't want to read any books taking place in a post-Thrawn world...
It does end on a huge cliffhanger, so I think I'll be reading the next one, despite my aversion to a post-Thrawn world, as I said above.
I blame Timothy Zahn, both for killing off an amazing character, and for being such a good writer that I can't not read his books.
;)  (hide spoiler)]
Много добро изпълнение от страна на г-н Зан.
Може би щеше да е по-интересно ако точната природа на "Траун" и планът на Тирс и Дизра бе останал скрит от читателите по-дълго време.
От друга страна тази всевиждаща гледна точка, дава уникален поглед върху вселената на Star Wars.
От една страна е адмирал Палеон, а от друга са "Траун", Дизра и Тирс с техния диаболичен план за унищожението на Новата република.
Като споменахме новата република и тя не е идиличното обединение от планети, което се е очаквало да бъде.
Много добро възможно продължение на Сагата, според мен.
It's such a major plot point, and while it is fun to watch everyone else pretty much acted like chickens with their heads cut off when they discovered that Thrawn is still "alive" (that "they don't know, muahahaha" moment that every reader probably knows so well), I think that it'd be even more fun if we were kept in the dark too.
I do, however, love Pellaeon's character development.There was pretty much nothing to be said for the heroes except that I really love how Zahn writes and handles Luke, and despite all his shortcomings in writing Leia in the Thrawn trilogy, I think he finally got it, too.
Pellaeon then visits various Imperial outposts in order to gain support, and attempts to arrange a meeting with General Bel Iblis to discuss surrender.One of the opposers to Pellaeon's proposals, Moff Disra, formulates a plan to use an actor, Flim, to impersonate the Grand Admiral Thrawn, in the hopes that Thrawn's "return" will cause uncertainty and disunity within the New Republic.
He hires a con artist, Flim, to impersonate Grand Admiral Thrawn, the idea being that Imperial Forces would rally, and many systems would rejoin the Empire, due to Thrawn's "returning from the dead."Another Imperial plot is underfoot, to provoke civil war in the New Republic, involving the Caamas Document.
Believe it or not this was my first dive back into the Legends realm since the Canon changed. At least I am pretty sure it is. Anyways this novel is great. It reminded me of the many characters we have lost in the new continuity but at the same time some of the references to events reminded me of all the garbage that is now gone. Of course Zahn crafted a spectacular story and for what its worth parts of me wish this was still the true story.
Loved it. Timothy Zahn is a master at the feel of the Star Wars galaxy. Top tier of Star Wars authors.
Took me a really long time to read this one. It just doesn't grip me the same way Zahn's original Thrawn series did.
Spectre Of The Past is the first of a two-book series and is the continuation of Timothy Zahn's Grand Admiral Thrawn Trilogy.
Star Wars was a part of my life again.So I was understandably excited when I saw that Zahn was putting out two new books.
Another problem I have is that there seem to be many references to other Star Wars books besides Zahn's original trilogy.
It is a Star Wars book and Zahn writes it well.
Zahn excels at describing the equipment and the concepts and weapons of the Star Wars universe without it feeling overdone or forced.
Timothy Zahn is good at writing Star Wars.
But while he tries to make contact, an old disciple of Palpatines (a member of his Royal Guard) named Major Tearce has teamed up with Moff Disra to trot out a new Thrawn - a con man who they had dye his skin blue and change his hair and eye color.
While they tried to cause disruption throughout the Republic with staged violent demonstrations, Thrawn made appearances at key times and places which drummed up support for the Empire.Meanwhile, Leia was trying to hold the New Republic together.
All 500 million, or whatever their numbers are, they all had to pay for the acts of about 15.
but, Timothy Zahn did a great job of introducing a ton of characters, all doing different things in different places, while explaining clearly who they were and where they were coming from, without the story getting bogged down (although someone who's already familiar with the characters might feel differently).
again, I think Zahn balances all of these different characters well.
but I didn't feel that way about this at all, so I think the characters are fairly well drawn and defined.
I want to read the three books that came before this and of course the conclusion to this story!(one of my favorite things on the internet.)
Karrde: Mara is in danger and i need you to go save her.Luke: I can't leave i'm busy doing Jedi stuffKarrde: But-Luke: Ok you have persuaded me i will go and save herKarrde: *Ships it* Ok best be on your way thenLuke: *Heroicly sets off to save Mara*
I picked this up immediately after reading the Thrawn trilogy hoping for more cheesy Star Wars action.
And Zahn's reliance on coincidence to put the same characters miraculously into the thick of things over and over again is so heavy-handed that it makes it actually strains credibility even for a hard-core Star Wars fan willing to give lots of license to do such things.
And, worst of all, the audiobook production starts to fall flat with the introduction of a few new alien species voices that are, frankly, annoying to listen to.Despite all this, overall it was an OK read, with a few action highlights worthy of Star Wars (Luke's capture by pirates and his escape basically makes this a 3-star vs.
This book takes place ten years after the Thrawn trilogy. Luke's power has grown incredibly powerful, and Han and Leia's twins are now ten years old with a younger brother. A new enemy in the nearly-decimated Empire arrives and tosses the New Republic an issue that could destroy it. This book wasn't as good as the Thrawn trilogy; it's mostly setting up the story for the next book, but it's politics are even more interesting than in the trilogy. Not my favorite Star Wars book, but a good enough read.
This was not the last Star Wars book I ever read, but it was almost the last.
I read this and the sequel, but they just didn't hook me as well as some of the earlier ones had.
For one, I had a big crush on Luke Skywalker back then and seeing him get together with Mara Jade was a big deterrent.
It had good pacing and all the other elements to make a good Star Wars story, but it just didn't appeal back then the way some of the other books did.
I think I'll read it again just to see if my opinion has changed.
Timothy Zahn is one of the best Star Wars authors by far. After amazing me with the Thrawn trilogy, The Last Command was even better. Even after his death, Admiral Thrawn still manages to cast a shadow over the New Republic. With this new season of Star Wars Rebels, I haven't been able to get my mind off of the EU Thrawn, I'm really glad he's Canon now, he's quite the villain.
"Point," Insert-Character-Name conceded.
Very good, but could not live up to the original Thrawn Trilogy, probably because Thrawn is dead.
Recently I tried to re-read Heir to the Jedi, and despite the excellent narration, it never really caught my attention to really hold onto it.I had heard of this--somewhat of an EU sequel to the original Thrawn series, but have never read it.
As there are sections of the original Thrawn trilogy that leaves you really satisfied.
I'm expecting a better payout with this book's sequel.One thing I've found funny in this whole thing--and this is me getting a little nit-picky, not with Zahn, but---well...In the original trilogy, I had the distinct feeling that the clones in the Clone Wars were the bad guys.
I’ll be diving into that one immediately next, and I’m looking forward to it.I’m a complete Thrawn fanboy; the blue-skinned, red-eyed military strategist is, for my money, the best Star Wars character outside of those featured in the films, and would probably probably rank pretty high even among those those in the movies as well.
(Mara Jade, for the record, would probably be my second-favorite Expanded Universe character.) So I’m very happy the plot of Specter of the Past involved him so heavily, and was even happier (SPOILER ALERT) that it wasn’t the real Thrawn.
As far as I’m concerned Zahn is a Jedi master of the Star Wars writing universe.
New information comes to light that the Bothans are responsible for the Camaasi incident.
Lando helps a senator and meets a ghost while a guest of the Empire, Luke is off to try to understand where clones he and Han ran into are coming from and ends up running into a new ship of unknown origins, Mara goes chasing after the ship and finds her own danger and Luke heads in to the rescue.
Can the New Republic and Empire both survive?
