https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/546372.Back_to_Methuselah
The evolution of Humanity played out on stage27 March 2014 When I picked this book up again I noticed that I have already read and commented on it, and I suspect that the comment that I wrote was back when I simply commented on books that I had already read not realising that there were a number of books that I wanted to read again (including this one). However I have decided that what I will do is write an updated commentary, though I still believe the comments that I made originally still hold
However, unlike Nietzsche, Shaw does not see the will to become power as being a force for evolution, but rather the will to evolve, that is to move onto the next stage where humanity becomes wiser and thus begins to discard many of its childish ways (as the violent nature of humanity is not a strength but rather a weakness).Part 3	We are now three hundred years in the future and once again the world has changed.
There are a couple of interesting things that Shaw brings into this part of the play, the first being the discrimination against the long-lifers, and also the nature of wisdom.
One of Dad's oldest friends, Ken Bennett, former professor of English at Lake Forest University, is a Shavian; I'd enjoyed the little Shaw I'd read and the description of Methuselah in a book of the world's greatest literature I'd poured through for ideas for future reading had made the five plays sound very intriguing, so I bought the thing and dived in, reading it every night at my ER desk at Evanston Hospital.Well, I finished the thing, but couldn't say I was much impressed.
Perhaps I'd enjoy it more if presented as spoken word (Shaw having not intended stage productions, the ones given flopped).
The evolution of humanity played out on stage23 July 2011 This play is my favourite Bernard Shaw play next to Pygmalion, and having been written in the early twenties, it not only shows some more maturity in the playwriting, but also explores a topic that was believed to be dead after World War I: the concept of Human Enlightenment. The concept, popular in the late 19th Century and early 20th Century was that after almost a century of peace that the human race was on the doorstep of a new golden
The evolution of humanity played out on stage23 July 2011	This play is my favourite Bernard Shaw play next to Pygmalion, and having been written in the early twenties, it not only shows some more maturity in the playwriting, but also explores a topic that was believed to be dead after World War I: the concept of Human Enlightenment.
At the beginning of the 1920's, an era of unprecedented prosperity at the time, Shaw produces this play which in its breadth endeavours to encompass all of human history from the Garden of Eden through to our ascension to godhood.
I felt as though I was laboring through the play during the middle part, however, by the time I got to the last Act: "As Far As Thought Can Reach" it was entirely worth it.
I can understand why Alan Turing went through a metamorphosis after reading this in his late teens; there was a long discussion on creating what we now call AI and why humans have always had the urge to do so.
Is it because our thought never matures and remains that of a child's our entire life?
Each part is full of provocative ideas, but despite the theme do not expect a lot of theatrical plot or science fiction, this one of Shaw's books meant to be read rather than performed, and in fact if you should read only part of it, I recommend you read none of the plays but the preface, where GBS outlines two key thoughts:First of all, the question mark over evolution is not on natural selection (and therefore people arguing his is a version of eugenics have the wrong focus).
The play then leaps forward ‘as far as thought can reach’, to the year 31,920, when humans emerge as fully grown adolescents from eggs, absorb themselves for four years with love, the arts, and other supposed frivolities, and then develop into ‘ancients’, sexless, ascetic creatures who spend the rest of their very long lives in contemplation and wish only to escape from their bodies.
The play, though obviously difficult to take seriously on a literal level, contains plenty of lively observation, and remains of interest for the light it sheds both on Shaw's growing disenchantment with democratic politics and on his Manichaean mistrust of sense, feeling, and human relationships.Read more: Back to Methuselah http://www.jrank.org/literature/pages...
While countless science fiction novelists glibly deal with immortality as if it were just a fine way to live, Shaw explores the psychological consequences.
What sort of mind would it take, if you decided to live for, say 300 years?
Could you live with yourself for that long?
You may come out feeling different.BTW --- At book-signings of "Immortality Machine", a novel that owes much to Shaw, I asked every buyer to state their desired lifespan.
I had very few takers for 300 years, Shaw's suggested lifespan; necessary if mankind is to survive.
IN THE PREFACE,SHAW'S suggestion of an INCREASED LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH attainable through CREATIV
An attempt by one of the most intelligent thinkers, writers, people of last century to peep into future of evolution - beyond the present limits of where we are. Life spans of longer than a century or two, youth and ability well into third century, or lives a millennium long with growing up and reproduction finished soon so the true vocation can be taken up, of thought and creation? Sensational, either way. Sunday, September 21, 2008. ....................................................................................................................................................................................
A fantastic approach to how we should live.
A wonderful piece of art
العودة الى ميتوشالح !القسم الأول : في البدء، عام 4004 ق.
م ( في جنة عدن)القسم الثاني : انجيل الأخوين بارناباس ( الوقت الحاضر ) القسم الثالث : الشيء يحدث ( عام 2170 )القسم الرابع : مأساة السيد كهل ( عام 3000 م)القسم الخامس : أقصى ما يمكن أن يصل إليه الفكر ( عام 31920 م) أكثر فهرس ابهرني إطلاقًا، لم أتردد في استعارتها بعد قراءتي للفهرسمسرحية محيّرة، فكرتها ساحرة وعظيمة، وتحتوي على أفكار رمزية وفلسفية ..
لكن للأسف معالجتها سيئة، الكثير من الأشياء غير مترابطة وغير مفهومة ..
اعجبني الفصل الأول والأخيرعلى الرغم من عدم فهمي للكثير من الأشياء إلا أن هذه المسرحية يصعب نسيانها
My first Shaw play. From 1921, Shaw is definitely reeling from the war in this imaginary retelling of a past and future Genesis. The surreality of the play however keeps me from wondering how serious - or comic - the play is supposed to be.Another last thought: I kept reflecting on how contemporary audiences, even Christian ones, would probably not be biblically literate enough to understand such an anti-Christian play.
This ain't a play, this is a goddamn novel. Goodness, Mr Shaw had a lot of things to say. Effin' funny though. Like when that woman failed to shoot Napoleon from two feet away and he plays dead and then calls her a woman for being a bad shot.Then, the final words from Lilith. Woo... timeless, that.
Bernard Shaw explores the psychological consequences of immortality in a series of 5 plays that dramatize the evolution of humanity:In the Beginning (B.C. 4004), The Gospel of the Brothers Barnabas (Present Day), The Thing Happens (A.D. 2170), Tragedy of an Elderly Gentleman (A.D. 3000), As Far as Thought Can Reach (A.D. 31,920).
If I had not read the preface, I would have thought it was dated fiction punctuated by moments of humor. Knowing that Shaw saw his wishful thinking as some sort deep truth, however, spoiled the fun.my favorite quote: "You are always in little squabbling cliques; and the worst cliques are those which consist of one man."
قليلة هي الكتب التى تدرك وانت تقراها بأنها ستبقى عالقة في ذاكرتك الى الوقت الذي تنطفئ تلك الذاكرة ، مسرحية ميتوشالح واحدة من تلك الكتب .انها مسرحية الزمن كله ومراحل الانسان كلها ، هي البداية والصراع والنهاية .الزمن فيها يبتدأ مع آدم وحواء ليصل الى سنة ٣١٩٢٠ م .بحث فلسفي ضخم وقصة رائعة ، أضخم وأعظم ما كتبه برناردشو .عمل يجب ويجب ويجب ان يقرأ ، ونادرا ً جدا ً ان أتحمس لكتاب ما .
Strange - a sort of extremely slow progress that runs antithetical to modernity. In many ways (in terms of the nonfiction aspect of Shaw's project), J.B.S Haldane's "Daedalus, or, Science and the Future" is far superior, or Bernal's _The World, the Flesh, and the Devil_.
Shaw, George BernardThe Complete Bernard Shaw PlaysIn compilation only.
I found this book fascinating - the whole idea of people living longer & what that might look like. Very science fiction in an old-fashioned way :)
the story about adam and eve is great. referenced by kurt vonnegut jr.
