https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2008359.The_Three_Oak_Mystery
Simply meant to entertain and keep their readers going from chapter to chapter with bated breath, they do fulfil their purpose, at least with me, and if you compare them with the output of modern potboiler writers, you might find Wallace much wittier and at least as entertaining as the best of our present-day churners.The Three Oak Mystery is definitely one of his better novels, since it’s all there: A clever, somewhat dandified sleuth named Socrates Smith, the mysterious murder of a grumpy old man who was obviously afraid of something, a shady neighbour who is obviously hiding his past, a damsel in distress and two men intent on marrying her, and a derelict farm building which once was the scene of a heinous crime.
I chose to read this tale because I was curious about a central personage, his name was Socrates, my
Your average Edgar Wallace (best known for penning King Kong) potboiler. Wallace was hugely popular in his day -- in fact, I've heard that back in the twenties, one out of four current books in print was a Wallace novel. To say he was prolific is an understatement. I have a friend who collects the inexpensive A.L. Burt books that published Wallace, among others. I think I passed this on to her when I'd finished it.
This typical Edgar Wallace mystery, features the wonderfully named detective Socrates Smith, who is clearly a Sherlock Holmes rip-off, with his brother Lexington Smith doubling for Dr. Watson. A nicely convoluted mystery with plenty of incident, murder, forced marriage, kidnapping and so forth a typical day in the world of Edgar Wallace.
Tipico giallo inglese non memorabile, ma godibile e scorrevole
As long as one doesn't forget that this is one of the /170/ novels written by Edgar Wallace in his lifetime, one will not be disappointed.Ex police officer Socrates Smith and his brother Lexington, who is also an amateur sleuth, are invited to spend a weekend at Peter Mandle's country home.
Their host, Peter Mandle, an ex Scotland Yard detective who invites both brothers down to stay with him and his beautiful 22 year old stepdaughter Molly Templeton, with whom Mandle obviously has a strained relationship, Bob Stone, another detective turned country neighbor and life long friend of Mandle's, but who also has a growing affection for Molly, and the mysterious Mr. Jetheroe who has only recently moved into the neighborhood from "abroad" who exercises a strange amount of influence over young Molly Templeton form the main cast.
Non il miglior Wallace (per quello, leggere il mistero della candela ritorta) però godibile come al solito. Wallace è stato forse l'unico inglese con un pessimo sense of humor e in questo romanzo ogni tanto prova a fare lo spiritoso, con risultati poco apprezzabili. Lui è celebre per non rileggere i suoi libri, motivo per cui sono, qui è là, presenti piccole incongruenze. Dal traduttore mi sarei però aspettato che le correggesse. Vabbè la fedeltà al testo, però è meglio evitare l'effetto WTF? Consigliato per una lettura leggera e ai patiti dell'ambientazione d'inizio secolo.
Going into this book, I expected it to be very much like Sherlock Holmes ....and I was not disappointed. The writing style and the main protagonist are remarkably similar to Shelock Holmes. So it is safe to say that anyone who enjoyed reading Sherlock Holmes would definitely enjoy reading this book. The mystery was definitely entertaining!! Although I did have a few issues with the book...it was an overall fun read.
Solider Edgar Wallace Krimi. Nicht übermäßig spannend, nicht besonders überraschend, relativ vorhersehbar. Da ich aber kein großer Krimi-Fan bin, stört mich das nicht. Ich mag Krimis die Anfang des 20. Jhd. oder auch früher, auf dem englischen Land spielen, einfach gerne mal für Zwischendurch.
Like most of Edgar Wallace's works, an easy afternoon's read that doesn't let lit. crit. get in the way of a good story told well.
