https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11529868-the-orphan-master-s-son
In a stunning feat of imagination, Johnson puts us inside Jun Do (yep, John Doe), a North Korean orphan who stumbles from poverty to a job as body double for a Hero of the Eternal Revolution. The closed world of North Korea revealed here—where businessmen are conscripted to work in the rice fields and the ruthless Kim Jong-il is still the Dear Leader—goes beyond anything Orwell ever imagined. The Orphan Master’s Son veers from cold terror to surrealistic humor with ease, and succeeds as both a thriller and a social satire. Put it on your shelf next to Catch-22.
Set aside your Facebook and Twitter feeds and summon every last ounce of patriotic love for and devotion to the Democratic People’s Republic of Goodreads in order to focus your cluttered Western minds and screen-worn eyes for several uninterrupted minutes on this update of paramount significance from your Dear Reviewer![END TRANSMISSION]A Terse Intrusion of Self-AwarenessI’ve been really fascinated and concerned with North Korea for years now.
I think I'd prefer it had this book been just a speculation only, perhaps a glimpse into a fictional dystopian society (like Orwell's 1984, for instance), and not presented as representing the life in a real country full of real people because then I'd be able to allow both my brain and my heart to run with the story, to fully feel the horror and hopelessness and desperation and outrage instead of always keeping myself in check by involuntary reminders that I will never know what is real and what is created to capitalize on our society's deep fears stemming from our culture's ingrained values.
And we know it's true because David Mitchell (Mr. and Mrs. Mitchell's son) called it an "addictive novel", and "an impressive book".
Nearly 450 pages of incomprehensible, convoluted, drivel.Several of these "glowing" reviews talk about the book being good because "I knew so little about North Korea".
This was a really, really bad book.I can honestly say that I won't soon forget having wasted two weeks trying to gag my way through this unnecessarily pointless novel.
And, now I suppose I can be quoted as having called "The Orphan Master's Son" 'unforgettable'...?
Fortunately for the reader, the parts handled by the omniscient narrator dominated, and they made for quite a story!In various post-publication interviews Johnson said he conducted extensive research for the book (it took him 7 years) including talks with refugees and a visit to Pyongyang.
Johnson was clever in the way he humanized Jun Do at the same time that he obscured his identity.
Eventually Jun Do winds up as one of the tunnel fighters who work in secret passages under the DMZ into South Korea, but he’s recruited to be part of a team that goes out in boats and snatches random citizens from Japanese or South Korean beaches.
Eventually Jun Do’s fortunes take an odd turn that will eventually bring him face to face with the greatest actress in the world (According to North Korean propaganda.) Sun-moon, and The Dear Leader Kim Jong Il.Propaganda plays a big part in this story.
But the even deeper story was how much suffering and deprivation humans can endure while remaining human.For another interesting take on North Korea, I would highly recommend Guy Delisle's comic book Pyongyang.-POSSIBLE SPOILERS BELOW-I liked how in the first half we are with Pak Jun Do as he lives his life from the orphanage until his imprisonment because he participated in the mission to America and then we change to Commander Ga and it takes a while for us to see that we are still talking about the same person.
The result, in my opinion, is a cluttered, overblown narrative that eventually eclipses the fascinating and tragic nature of life in contemporary North Korea.
This book is genuinely tragic at times, but Johnson never skips an opportunity to remind the reader of that.
I'm willing to accept that perhaps some of this was intentional, but in that case I just don't think Johnson made very good choices about how to propel the story forward.
I'll concede that Commander Ga's final moments "on autopilot" are poignant and perfectly executed, but then why not end the book that way?
This is just flat-out brilliant. An amazing imaginative leap into an unknowable country, one that feels so granular, so meticulously envisioned, that it blew me away. There is both heft and humor here.
Here's his review:http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...I'm glad I read The Orphan Master's Son, however, so thanks, Mike.Why wouldn't I have read this novel without Mike's recommendation?
And while Jun Do, the main character, has his noble elements, he's much more complex than any lead in a movie that's going to win a feel-good Oscar.Were I betting man (and seriously, I'm not, I hate casinos) I would put big money on The Orphan Master's Son taking home a briefcase full of literary awards.
Can you bet on literary awards, by the way?
This novel subverted what I expected from narrative and character in the best way possible.
It illuminates a North Korea that seems all too real, while telling the story of a man whose feats of survival would turn him into a folk hero in any other context.
ETA: I keep thinking about the fact that Jun Do chooses his own identity from the beginning.
Which stories that he tells himself are true, and which are true enough to get him through the situation he faces?
He plays many roles in this novel, some of which he chooses and some of which he is forced into.
Through all of it, there is a theme of the stories people tell to get themselves through harsh realities.
Johnson undoubtedly used news reports to reimagine the visits of western envoys as part of his story, but the blackness central to the society was difficult for me to believe.
However, in one interview published in the Paris Review, Johnson denies he showed us the real blackness: “…I had to leave much of the darkness out of my book.
You couldn’t read it.” It is just as well, then, for this book was quite black enough to leave one feeling untethered.The novel is broken into two parts.
It is difficult to read this half of the novel.
At a certain point I almost put this book down because I thought the only character I cared about was gone.
But I was immersed and impressed a few pages later when that character was reintroduced under new circumstances.
This book is a real-life 1984, interspersed with facts about North Korea.
Even though many scenarios were far fetched, this work of fiction was engaging and gave me a newfound interest in North Korea; I have already bought another book about the DPRK.
But there's no attempt to understand what any of that could mean to real people or real characters -- it's just the setting for a rowdy picaresque adventure that goes on a bit too long and is rather too wordy (Johnson's descriptions of nature are particularly painful), and the place where Johnson works out a bunch of sort of shopworn ideas about identity, loyalty and deception that are not as interesting as he thinks they are, and that all take place in the head -- there are almost no emotions in this book.

The book is darkly comic and desperately sad, always teetering on the brink of complete absurdity but true in its heartbreaking depiction of people just trying to survive the stories of their lives that the state has determined for them.
If a farmer is declared a music virtuoso by the state, everyone had better start calling him maestro.
In part two, the picaresque gives way to intrigue and romance among the upper echelons and the Dear Leader himself as Jun Do evolves from a tool of the state to a man determined to fashion his own story.This is a remarkable accomplishment, at once compellingly readable and scarily disorienting.
“In my experience, ghosts are made up only of the living, people you know are out there but are forever out of range” ― Adam Johnson, The Orphan Master's SonOne of my favorite novels of the year, and definitely my favorite novel set primarily in North Korea (I've read four others, or five).
These novels might not be 'War and Peace' or 'Moby-Dick' but they definitely show that fiction isn't even close to being dead.Johnson is able to examine such themes as propaganda, stories, the concept of self and identity, totalitarianism love, memory, etc., in a novel way.
Even though only a part of this novel is actually set in a prison, I'd argue that all totalitarian literature is at heart a sub-genre of prison literature.
The journalistic approach of the author to highlight the torture in the book, also leaves me with a lack of emotional bonding with the story or the characters.
That hungry enough, a person could consume the bright faces of violas, even the stems of dandelions and the bitter hips of roses?"The narrative promises a good ending as though the reader needs to stick to the story and not leave after the first half was concluded.
I am thinking about the collective story of a country being dictated and written by a totalitarian despot(the Kim regime in the state-controlled media outlets) and how the character of Jun Do, created by the author, can perhaps be the collective persona of a nation.
Don't Give Up, You're Not Beaten YetAfter buying this book, I read 75 pages and gave up, thinking it was too dark and foreign for me to like.
There is a man who has a great love for her, a love he’s been saving up for his entire life, and it doesn’t matter that he must make a great journey to her, and it doesn’t matter if their time together is brief, that afterward he might lose her, for she is the flower of his heart and nothing will keep him from her.” I loved this novel, which I consider the best I've read this decade.
The true testimonies of survivors of the DPRK are so bizarre in themselves that in certain sections, it is nearly impossible to disentangle reality from Johnson's imagination.About midway through the story, there is a darkly comic diplomatic trip taken by representatives of Kim Jong Il (which includes Jun Do) to a ranch in the US.
If a man and his story are in conflict, it is the man who must change.”The new identity involves darkly farcical actions, but within them, Jun Do finally finds love.
Saw Johnson on a panel, talking about 9/11, Ten Years After, with Steve Erickson and Dana Goodyear and LA Times book critic David Ulin--and he held his own with that stellar company, and then some.
Funny, when I saw him before the panel, I didn't know who he was, thought he was somebody's friend, maybe a bouncer at some kind of rough nightspot or someone who worked with prison youth-- until he sat down at the table, and started talking.
In the case of North Korea, the reality itself is absurd.*****************What a toughminded imagining--you literally fight your way through this book, like hand to hand combat with the forces which separate the truth from 'the story'...
With this novel, the prose, the characters, the story and the author's imagining of life under totalitarian rule in North Korea all combine to produce the literary equivalent of the perfect storm in my reading universe.
On the other hand, it is a book in which the author's imagination regarding this closed society comes to life and translates into a credible look at a place most people know only through news reports.
It wasn't because I loved reading it but because I was so sick of feeling like I was entrapped in a demented world.
If a man and his story are in conflict, it is the man who must change."There were times when the story was full of ironic humor, especially some of the North Korean reactions to American culture during a trip to Texas.
I did think that the story meandered a little too much at times.
For me, some of the best books make you the most uncomfortable.
This is not a traditional book but rather a gritty tale that you will either love or hate.
I think I've given Mr Johnson a fair chance so I have no compunction in bailing out of this one.
I'm old enough to be conscious of my own mortality.
What are the criteria for a Pulitzer prize-winning novel?
Not by its innovative or original narrative technique, we have an old-fashioned linear story told by an omniscient third person narrator, a rather obvious Bildungsroman.
And I think I can see where we are going here.
Since Communism died a natural death in Europe, and Fukuyama proclaimed the End of History, I'd have thought this was a message that we don't really need any more.
Kim Jong Il's force-fed propaganda controls the people so consummately that their identities are squeezed from their minds and replaced with a state-sponsored life and perspective.
A day is just a match you strike after the ten thousand matches before it have gone out," says the tragic, beautifully wounded actress, Sun Moon, who has made persona an art, and who once captured the hearts of all the citizens, including her husband, Commander Ga. Jun Do's transformations, internal and external, bring him squarely into the receptacles of Commander Ga, Sun Moon, and the "Dear Leader" himself.This postmodern novel is told via stunning juxtapositions, between the controllers and subjects of a treacherous society and the inner will of the individual.
Do you enjoy political satire?
Again, if you answer in the affirmative, you will most probably enjoy this book.
I want to understand what is definitely happening.
Here again, if you are a reader who enjoys figuring this out you will be happy when you finally understand that that one voices the events of the present and the other of the past.
I wish I could give this audiobook to someone who would enjoy it.
I do not know if the audiobooks purchased at Audible can be leant or even given to others.
Many have written about the horror’s described in this book but it’s so strangely compelling and what drew me inside this story was more so the subtle humour and absurdity of the scenes he describes and of course, the flawlessly painted characters.
I take my hat off to an author who is not afraid to put pen to paper and build such a huge story around such atrocities, I for one am even too afraid here to use the Dear Leaders name!
Der Waise Jun Do hat kein eigenes Leben, keine Familie, sein ganzes Dasein und sein Lebenszweck ist dem großen Führer Kim Jog Il (als Stellvertreter natürlich den ausführenden Parteibonzen), seinen Bedürfnissen, Wünschen und Forderungen gewidmet.
Sie redeten über einen kranken Kollegen und spekulierten, ob er wohl Nahrungsmittel bei sich im Haus gehortet hatte und wer die Wohnung bekommen würde, wenn er starb."Eine kafkaeske surreale menschenverachtende Münchhausiade, die so perfekt mit abstrusen Fakten über Nord-Korea gestrickt und eng gewoben ist, dass man nicht erkennt, wo die Wahrheit aufhört und die Fiktion beginnt - ich bin ENTZÜCKT!!
Após sete anos de investigação e uma viagem “organizada” à Coreia do Norte o norte-americano Adam Johnson (n. 1967) escreve “Vida Roubada”, no original “The Orphan Masters Son” (2012) e recebe o Prémio Pulitzer 2013 para Ficção.O romance “Vida Roubada”, com o subtítulo na edição portuguesa, “Uma Saga de Amor, Esperança e Redenção no País Mais Fechado do Mundo”, está dividido em duas partes: Primeira Parte – A Biografia de Jun Do e Segunda Parte – As Confissões do Comandante Ga (Um anos depois).J
Após sete anos de investigação e uma viagem “organizada” à Coreia do Norte o norte-americano Adam Johnson (n.
“Vida Roubada” foi uma verdadeira descoberta literária, um romance épico e emocionante, enquadrado pela sinistra ditadura da Coreia do Norte, oficialmente República Popular Democrática da Coreia, um enigmático thriller, com personagens de ficção e o verdadeiro Querido Líder Kim Jon Il (falecido em 2011); simultaneamente, uma história de amor, inocente e romântica, um retrato fascinante de um País, dominado pela fome, pela corrupção, pela arbitrariedade, pela crueldade, pela propaganda – “CIDADÃOS, juntai-vos em volta dos vossos altifalantes…” ou “CIDADÃOS”, trazemos boas notícias…” - pelos caprichos sádicos, impulsivos e opressivos de uma elite governamental, mas onde se desenvolvem relações genuínas de amor e sacrifício, histórias de sobrevivência e camaradagem, num relato pungente e credível, que oscila entre a melancolia e a sátira.Imagem de satélite (Setembro 2012) da NASA sobre a Coreia do Norte.
I had misgivings as to even starting this book. A burly Caucasian fella, a Stanford professor no less, feels he can set a novel in North Korea, a place where burly Caucasian guys don't exactly have the run of the ranch; an author who names his three children: Jupiter, James Geronimo and Justice Everlasting. The book he names The Orphan Master's Son, which sounded to me like the spit'em-out ( fill in the occupation )'s Daughter. And then it's also a bestseller, with over 20,000 GR ratings as I wr
A burly Caucasian fella, a Stanford professor no less, feels he can set a novel in North Korea, a place where burly Caucasian guys don't exactly have the run of the ranch; an author who names his three children: Jupiter, James Geronimo and Justice Everlasting.
Not a murder mystery, but, rather, a page-turner to find out what happens to Pak Jun Do aka Commander Ga. I think I respected this book more than liked it.
In North Korea, you weren't born, you were made, and the man that had done the making, he was working late tonight.This book reminded me of one of my earliest reading experiences.
