https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/87282.Closely_Watched_Trains
A couple of months ago, I bought this slim volume at the Globe Bookstore and Cafe in Prague on the last afternoon of a 9-day school tour with my 15-year old daughter and several of her classmates.
This book is a 4-star read for me, in part, because, on every page, I recalled our time together in Prague and was grateful again for the opportunity to walk its streets, begin to appreciate its rich history and still recent experience of war and occupation, and to spend that time with my daughter.
TRENI ACUTAMENTE OSSERVATI Nella stazioncina il capostazione aspetta di essere promosso ispettore, ha la divisa nuova già pronta nell’armadio, e alleva colombi: prima della guerra allevava i bagadesi di Norimberga, ma quando i tedeschi invadono la Polonia, li strozza tutti e li sostituisce con altri, le linci polacche.I treni passano da est a ovest e da ovest a est, con vagoni a volte pieni di soldati e infermiere, a volte crivellati di pallottole, a volte pieni di animali ridotti alla fame e disidratati immersi tra compagni già cadaveri.Il capomanovra a mezzanotte ha sollevato la gonna della telegrafista, l’ha fatta stendere sul tavolo, le ha sfilato le mutandine e le ha stampato sul sedere tutti i timbri, almeno la metà dei quali in lingua tedesca.
In the closing months of WW II in provincial Czech, the social system of the national railways copes with the German military, allied raids, and the sexual fetishes of the local dispatcher.
The theme of keeping one's head down with the dominant force must have caused a stir despite the black comedy that dominates the book.What is important to all the characters is really not the outcome of the war, or even whether German or Czech is the official national language, but the experience of their own lives.
رواية للكاتب التشيكي بوهوميل هرابال وجمال السرد الذي يكمن في التفاصيلالراوي ميلوش هرما الموظف المتمرن في سكك الحديد على تنظيم حركة القطاراتفي محطة صغيرة في مقاطعة تشيكية قرب نهاية الحرب العالمية الثانية يراقب القطارات تحت الحراسة المشددة التي تحمل المؤن والأسلحة لقوات الاحتلال الألمانية ويحكي عن عمله وحياته وأسرته وعلاقته بحبيبته, ويصف تفاصيل كل مكان وحدث وشخصية يعرض هرابال عبثية الحرب وضحاياها في لقطات مميزة ويكتب بأسلوب فكاهي جميل
Milos's youthful idealistic view of Hubička, and a personal, perhaps subconscious, drive to remove the stigma from his family name -particularly his grandfather's doomed effort- lead him to accept a dangerous mission that culminates in a dramatic heroic deed, as he mercilessly exclaims:  "You should have sat at home on your arse..."War fictionistas who have read All's Quiet on the Western Front would note echoes of a similar fateful and humanistic scene.Bohumil Hrabal's short, postwar novel is a stunning blend of humor, humanity, tragedy and heroism, justifiably earning the appellation of "masterpiece." Highly recommend.
I thought this was supposed to be a short story. How did Hrabal fit so much of somebody's life into just under 100 pages?
Closely Watched Trains is a slender but tightly and skillfully written novella.
Milos behaves as if life is not worth living and Hrabal captures his despair with gentle lyricism.
Life post World War II is bleak and Milos who watches the trains registers with his keen eye fragments of shattered lives in the carriages: blood stains, glass on the floor, a long bandage, a child’s striped ball, ailing or dead cattle.
On the close surveillance medical trains, he feels a pang when he sees wounded soldiers who are boys his age or younger.
Read Closely Watched Trains.
Reading it gave me this experience: when disparate dreams come in sequence at night, each one understood completely as they pass before the eyes which open when one is asleep, each dream segment seeking to connect with the others, then backing off, one at a time, as if saying goodbye, yet making wordless promises to return when your need to remember comes.
And in those lazy moments between sleep and complete wakefulness you say to yourself that you will remember this dream, so funny, or sad, or strange.
(view spoiler)[Living with the shame of a foolish grandfather and great grandfather, and the humiliation of not being able to perform with Masha, the love of his life, Milo attempted suicide.
…as though someone was drawing out from my wrists a long, feathery red bandage, a filmy, dancing veil… The second event was Milo being threatened by German soldiers.
(view spoiler)[Milo, aided by Hubicka, turns from zero to hero, becoming a terrorist of sorts, bombing an ammunition laden closely watched train.
Milo gets shot by a German soldier and shoots him in return.
"Mi dico, tanto i tedeschi sono matti.Matti pericolosi.Anche io ero un po’ matto, ma a danno mio, mentre i tedeschi sempre a danno degli altri." Letteralmente il titolo sarebbe: "Treni acutamente seguiti".
Così veniva segnalata ai ferrovieri l'attenzione particolare che si doveva a dare a treni carichi di ogni sorta di arma e munizione.Treni che dovevano avere sempre il semaforo verde: precedenza assoluta alla morte!In un'amalgama di tragicità e comicità si racconta questa storia di cui il protagonista é Milosh Hrma: un ferroviere apprendista che torna al suo lavoro dopo un tentativo di suicidio.Tra personaggi stravaganti e situazioni grottesche Milosh vuole diventare uomo.
Hrabal (1914–1997) initially employs rapidly changing flashbacks whose pace slows as the broadly humorous strand of events at the station house converges with the tragic and ominous strand of events occurring in the outside world to meld into an event in which participate black humor, sentimentality, tragedy and the absurd.
A coming-of-age story of a young railwayman in German-occupied Czechoslovakia during World War II. Bohumil Hrabal (1914-1997) was a Czech writer said to be the greatest Czech novelist of the 20th century. Previous to this book, the only popular writer I have read was Milan Kundera (born 1929). In this book's back cover, this is what Kundera says about the book: "an incredible union of earthly humor and baroque imagination." . Although this is true, I think Kundera's oversimplification of the nov
A coming-of-age story of a young railwayman in German-occupied Czechoslovakia during World War II.
. Although this is true, I think Kundera's oversimplification of the novel's central idea does not do enough justice to what this book is all about.The story opens with Miloš Hrma enjoying his new railway man uniform.
So, if there is a novel that is set outside the concentration camp especially in the German occupied countries, it is a welcome relief.What makes this book remarkable are the parts where the author concentrates on what's going on in the mind of his protagonist.
http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b067vjwkDescription: It is 1945.
For gauche young apprentice Milos Hrma, life at the sleepy railway station in Bohemia is full of complex preoccupations.
There is the burden of dispatching German troop trains; the shocking scandal of Dispatcher Hubicka; and the vexing problem of his sexual performance.
Classic comedy drama from a celebrated Czech writer.Director/Producer Gary BrownCLOSELY OBSERVED TRAINS, which became the award-winning Jiri Menzel film of the 'Prague Spring', is a classic of postwar literature, a small masterpiece of humour, humanity and heroism which fully justifies Hrabal's reputation.Milos is played by John Bradley who is Samwell Tarley in 'Game of Thrones'.
This is John's first radio play.http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0060802/
Най-чудното в този санитарен влак, който сега гледах, бяха човешките очи, очите на ранените войници, сякаш онази болка на фронта, болката, която бяха причинили на другите и другите на тях, тази болка като че ги бе превърнала в други хора, тези немци бяхо по-симпатични от немците, пътуващи в обратна посока, всички гредаха през прозорците скучния пейзаж толкова внимателно и детински, като че минаваха през самия рай, като че моята гаричка беше бижутерска витрина, гледаха така, както гледаше към небето експедиторът Хубичка.Първите две части от "трилогията" (Подстригване, Светла печал и Милионите на Арлекин ) бяха изпълнени с хумор, но последната част - Милионите на Арлекин, направо ме заби в земята с депресивния си тон.

اكثر ري ويو هاي فارسي كه براي اين كتاب نوشته شده، بيشتر در مورد ترجمه است تا خود كتاب. من هم بايد اضافه كنم كه ترجمه از بد گذشته و در واقع گنگ است و به ترجمه يك ستاره هم نمي شه داد. مترجم آخر كتاب يك نقد بيست و چند صفحه اي نوشته كه قابل قبول نيست؛ چون وارد قلمروهايي شده كه خود نويسنده تا اونجاها پيش نرفته. و اما خود كتاب، كه درش تأثير تسلط نازي ها بر اروپاي شرقي در يك ايستگاه قطار نشان داده شده.
Neste livro, os "comboios rigorosamente vigiados" são comboios militares, sob vigilância especial, que transportam armamento e suporte para as tropas alemãs que, na frente leste, tentam evitar o avanço das tropas russas no período derradeiro da Segunda Guerra Mundial.Milos Hrma é um jovem de vinte e dois anos que trabalha como factor numa pequena estação ferroviária, algures na Checoslováquia ocupada pelos nazis e próxima da fronteira com a Alemanha.
In un paesino della Cecoslovacchia occupata dai nazisti, Milosh, allievo ferroviere ingenuo e timido, dopo essere “sfiorito come un giglio”, tenta il suicidio.
Tre mesi dopo riprende il suo posto nella piccola stazione da cui passano treni “strettamente sorvegliati” carichi di munizioni, soldati e bestiame destinato al macello.Corrono i treni sui binari mentre il ticchettio dell’orologio scandisce lo scorrere della vita.L’atmosfera è cupa.
Milosh ha in sé tutta la forza dei semplici e la delicatezza dei puri.
E rimane lì, in fondo al cuore, anche dopo aver chiuso il libro.Bisogna essere bravi per mescolare orrore e poesia, Bohumil.
Savaş eğlenceli bir şekilde anlatılabilir mi? Evet, anlatılabiliyor. Savaşın gündelik hayata yansımasını kahramanımız Miloş'ın basit anlatımıyla dinliyoruz. Biz Hrabal'ı çokça tanımıyoruz belki, ama Milan Kundera hayranı... Ve son cümlenin ağırlığı; "Son ana, kendi kendimi gözden yitirinceye kadar ölü erle eleleydik ve ben, erin sağır kulağına, bahtsız Almanları Dresden'den getiren marşandizdeki tren şefinin söylediği sözü tekrarlayıp duruyordum:"Evinizde oturup kalsaydınız da götünüzün üstünde...""
Thank you to Goodreads for deleting my previous review. Did I slander Bohumil Hrabal by saying this short novel wasn't as exceptional as I SERVED THE KIND OF ENGLAND or TOO LOUD A SOLITUDE, but still worth your time? Or by mentioning the odd but largely successful mix of historical horror, ribald comedy, and subverted coming-of-age tropes? Or by pointing out that the novel seems intentionally disorienting for the first couple of chapters but eventually feels as precise as a stationmaster's pocket watch?
'Closely Watched Trains' by Bohumil HrabalFor a book that is a mere 84 pages, and beautifully reissued in the wonderful Penguin Modern Classics imprint, it packs a heck of a lot in.22 year old Milos, is a depressed apprentice with low self esteem who works at a small and sleepy Czech railway station during the last months of World War 2.
It's so enjoyable that I am moving straight on with another book by Bohumil Hrabal, 'Cutting It Short'.4/5Bohumil Hrabal met a rather tragic end...Suicide or accident?: The Death of the Sad King of Czech Literature, Bohumil Hrabal...When Bohumil Hrabal either jumped or fell from a fifth floor window of Prague’s Bulovka Hospital while feeding pigeons at 2:30 p.
Forse non ero pronta per cogliere l’ironia praghese (di cui si parla diffusamente nell’intervista a Hrabal inclusa nel libro, ma non ci ho capito molto).
Ed è possibile non sia pronta neppure adesso, visto che leggendo questo breve romanzo non ho riso tanto (forse sorrido più adesso, ripensando alla telegrafista con il sedere stampigliato, che durante la lettura).
Todavía persiste la impresión, tras leer este libro, de haber asistido a la proyección de una película, tal es el encadenamiento de secuencias y la intensidad de las imágenes que Bohumil Hrabal es capaz de sugerir en el lector.
Siguiendo las pautas del inolvidable soldado Švejk (arquetipo de ambigüedad, candidez y sabiduría), comicidad y tragedia se suceden en un argumento alternativamente desenfadado y brutalmente dramático: desde los peculiares antecedentes biográficos del protagonista hasta la extraordinaria escena final, en la que Hrabal pone de manifiesto su indudable pericia como escritor.

There's a lot going on in this little classic.The last days of WWII, the Third Reich is in decline, the Czech countryside is full of dead, dying and the broken.
In a small railway station, Milos, a young signalman, is the narrator.
He tells of his attempted suicide, the sexual desires of the station master, pigeons, and watches the German trains pass to and fro.There is a sense of senselessness about the whole war and a need to do something before it is over.
Milos fore-fathers have all failed to be what they wanted to be.
The classic question in war.
This leaves you speechless. It resembled a journey to my own soul.
An extraordinary story both humourous and sad. A remarkable piece of writing. This is the second book by Hrabal (the first being Too Loud A Solitude) I’ve read. Both deserving a re-read(at least once). Hrabal goes onto my favourite author list.
No tengo la costumbre de escribir reseñas, pero a ver qué sale.Conocí la película antes que al libro y eso condicionó un poco mi lectura.
De paso adornaré la reseña con imágenes de la película.El protagonista es Miloš Hrma (pronúnciese Miloshi Jarma), un aprendiz de despachador de trenes que vuelve a trabajar después de tres meses de descanso por enfermedad (view spoiler)[(un intento de suicidio) (hide spoiler)].
Se dice que al autor lo enorgullecían las "cosas pequeñas pero muy humanas", y este libro está lleno de eso a los largo de sus escasas 118 páginas.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Quirky, funny and sad. Beautifully written and well translated. Set in Czech in World War II, this is the story of the goings on at a railway station. An odd little novella of 83 pages. I had not read or even heard of Hrabal before, but I will seek out his books again.
I liked it. Didn't think I would. Reminded me a bit of Robert Walser because of the narrator's childlike wonder of it all, except in this version, unlike the wandering and unlucky Walser, this hero gets laid. And in more ways than one.
