https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12438240-greenbanks
But nevertheless, her books brim with emotion for me - perhaps because Whipple is so deft at creating characters and situations that seem utterly real.This is a family saga, anchored by a house (the eponymous Greenbanks), and framed by the experiences of the family matriarch Louisa (whose life has been Victorian) and her beloved granddaughter Rachel (whose expectations as a woman will be changed by WWI).
Although Rachel's story stops at the point it is properly beginning, the reader gets the feeling that she will make more emotionally intelligent decisions in her life journey.It is difficult to explain why Whipple's novels are so absorbing - and so emotionally satisfying - but there is something perfectly well-balanced about her style.
As expected it was lovely and an enormous joy to read, only now I have no Whipples to look forward to – and that is awful.“The house was called Greenbanks, but there was no green to be seen today; all the garden was deep in snow”So starts this charming 1932 novel from Dorothy Whipple which is essentially about a family before and after the Great War. Louisa Ashton is a woman in late middle age married to the philandering Robert, with six grown up children.
The real heroines of this novel are of course Louisa and her granddaughter Rachel; it is through their eyes that we see everyone and everything else.
Some had read and loved the book, and all were thrilled at the prospect of another Whipple novel reappearing.And now I have been to Greenbanks.While I was there, I watched the story of an extended family, and the story of their family home, from the years before the Great War, through the years of that war, and into the years that followed.I came to understand their lives, their characters, their relationships, their hopes, their regrets, their emotions …Dorothy Whipple illuminated their lives quite perfectly, and I was completely captivated.At the centre of the story is Louisa Ashton, a woman raised with Victorian values and who has found great happiness raising her family and running her home.And at first her life seemed quite idyllic.

Men did these things for the love of them, to try them out, or to advance knowledge, experience, but women did them for notice, just to get into the papers, to be made a fuss of.”The quotes made me laugh, especially when I think of how times have changed now.
The story focusses mainly on the family matriarch, Louisa, those of her children who are either at home--Laura, Charles and Jim--or living nearby--her daughter, Letty, who is unhappily married to Ambrose, and their daughter Rachel--when the story begins.
Later, there is also Louisa's companion, Kate Barlow, who Louisa tries to help.
For example, after her son Jim marries and moves out of the family home, Louisa has an epiphany.
Help yourself, Kate.'
While this is true, it reduces the main root of the story, in that it encompasses the entire family and how each person's actions effect the family as a whole.Relationships are placed in strain, other relatives are made closer, others still rediscover themselves...all due to actions by other family members.
The story's main focus is on the grandmother, but I wouldn't say the entire story is about her.You are placed in a passive role as you watch the years pass.
You are dropped into the lives of this family for a few years in the role of voyeur and are just as quickly taken out of it.
This novel is quiet and unassuming. The writing isn’t fancy and there aren’t any impressive lyrical passages. It is solid, wonderfully solid, storytelling and a very real and believable tale about families. Most of the characters are flawed and broken, just as are those of us who are reading their story and that made me like the novel even more. I also enjoyed the inclusion of little domestic details such as the descriptions of meal preparation, knitting and embroidery projects, interior design decisions and wardrobe choices.
Out of all the Whipple books I have now read (I believe it is 4), I felt this was excellent, but not quite as good as the others. Still, I know I will revisit it again, as they are simply impossible to put down. I find that she is reminiscent of Trollope in her fine character development, but less loving than he is toward all his characters.
Her children and grandchildren were gathered round her, enjoying the dinner she had prepared with such care...”Jim, the eldest son, is still living at home when this novel begins.
Although Letty's husband Ambrose is difficult and controlling, her daughter Rachel's nurturing relationship with her grandmother Louisa becomes the centerpiece in this novel.
Ambrose is handed control over the legacy left to the acquiescent Louisa, and indulges in dangerous speculations.Louisa is content to be a mother and grandmother, and perhaps the core of this novel is the changing roles of women and society that war ushers in so quickly.
Of all of Whipple’s novels I’d say this is her most feminist, a gagged railing against the patriarchal machine is evident throughout the book (and yes, ‘feminism’ did exist as a concept in 1932 – apparently it was coined in Victorian times, and was in common usage as early as the 1890s, according to my good friends Mr Google and Mrs Wikipedia!).There are two main protagonists in Greenbanks: Louisa Ashton and her granddaughter Rachel.
The more I read of Whipple, the more I admire her clear-sighted and unshowy dissections of what it means to be middle-class and English in the twentieth century (and much of which still rings true today).Despite its understated rage, Greenbanks is an upbeat book.
I love all these middlebrow books, I've read them before.
This one is full of charm although it certainly shows a dark aspect to all that sweetness .
The position of women in many different roles is revealed, ranging from free at an almighty cost, to a slightly deranged state of withdrawal from society.
Most women are in the middle range, all beholden to the men in their lives.
Domestic details add hugely to its appeal - table manners, wall papers, food and drink, transport, clothes are the points of difference between our lives and theirs.
Very enjoyable reading.
Greenbanks is like a delicious hot dinner served cold.
It took me a while to read this novel, and it is certainly no page-turner.
Dorothy Whipple is the queen of cool, exquisite perspicacity.The lives of Louisa and her granddaughter Rachel shine out among the other members of this middle-class family of Elton, showing them up for the hypocrits they are.
One is brought to reflect on how women sometimes managed to break out from the male bondage of society in the beginning of the 20th century.
There is still a long way to go, of course, but novels like this one make us happy we live in the 21st century!
I’ve found a new favorite author! What a gem of a book!
I freaking love the way Dorothy Whipple wrote and I think the in afterword in my Persephone copy of this title, Charles Lock put his finger on why: “There is a coolness in Dorothy Whipple’s lack of interest in whether the reader follows what is going on.
While Louisa’s grown children and their wives and husbands often mystify her, she has a very special relationship with granddaughter Rachel.
There isn’t much of a plot, but as Lock states above, it is easy for the Whipple-loving reader to become immersed in the world of Greenbanks without it.
Whipple brings to life human relationships, particularly those within families, in a masterful way.
Twenty-first century fiction frequently reads more like a screenplay to me, describing every twitch, every product, every color of appliance, etc.
Whipple is no screenwriter - she sketches out her scenes, and provides detail when it supports the intent of the character, but otherwise lets the conduct and conversation of her characters propel the story - the result is a read that could have been written yesterday.
Outstanding writer, and further kudos to Persephone Books for bringing her to modern-day accessibility.
A very good story about the life of an English family beginning in the very late 1800's.
With issues of unfaithfulness in marriage and also illigitimacy, most of the characters react in the proper modes of the times.
A mother's love for one son more than another also adds fuel to the fire.Rachel is the beloved grandaughter of Louisa, the family matriarch.
Rachel keeps rooms at both her parents home and her grandmother.
We follow her through the years from a very little girl until she is 20 and has fallen in love.Dorothy Whipple has written a number of good book and this is one of them.
I've always hit or miss with DW and this is a hit. Its an understated family saga which delights in period detail, outdated ideas and future possibilities. Its characters weren't cliches when written and you must remember that and there is a lot more going on than is unsaid its pre Woolf too. It makes it a classic 'well made' book and a real treasure in its Persphone Books dove grey dust jacket. It is a lemon drizzle cake at the village fete and long may it reign.Toast
I loved this. Hard to say exactly what the appeal of Dorothy Whipple's books is, but superb, understated writing comes top of my list, followed by detailed and believable characters. The portraits of elderly Louisa, her young granddaughter Rachel and Kate, the "fallen woman" become-paid-companion will stay with me for a long time. If you want an author whose books you can "live" in for a few days, Whipple's the one.
Charming and subtle. Republished by Persephone Books who have 'done an excellent job of rescuing these lost books, which have committed no greater sin than being unsensationally written and beautifully constructed'.
These novels are pretty addictive. This one depicts a wonderful grandmother and grand-daughter relationship.
What a fabulous read. Simply told without being simple. interesting characters. women standing up for themselves. loved it.
Another stunner by the extraordinary Dorothy Whipple. Her portrait of Kate Barlow, proud and bitter,is a small masterpiece, as is the scathing study of Ambrose, a husband of superb insensitivity to the women around him. The ending is a brilliant heartbreak.
Dorothy Whipple has a quiet and detached style which belies the clear-eyed dissection of family relationships, which are developed with great success in this novel.
There are two heroines, separated by a generation - Rachel, who is four when the novel begins, and her grandmother Louise, a simple but wise woman who has mastered the arts of self-possession and generosity of spirit after bringing up four children with her wayward husband.
The middle generation is where all the turmoil exists and the plot focusses a spotlight on the struggles of these characters.
You'll have your own favourite character in this book.
Mine was xx, the woman who fell in love many years before, became pregnant with her lover though unmarried, and has spent the last 20 years trying to over come the guilt, blame, fear and financial crises.
Although the family try to love her and give her some freedom, although her son comes to find her and wants to make a home with her, she can't love, can't forget, can't forgive.
But the other characters are more loveable, and yet very much a family with the usual conflicts among them.
Recommended on the book blog "booksnob" (which I love).
I had previously read Dorothy Whipple and really like her.
I had to secure this book through inter-library loan from Champaign, as this is out of print.
A charming, thought- provoking novel about an extended family in England in the 1920s.
What makes it more than just a light novel is the way the women go about their lives- living them through their men.
The women in Greenbanks are beginning to see that it doesn't have to be this way and go about making changes.
There are a few Dorothy Whipple books available through the beautiful Persephone Press...
I loved this quietly feminist triumph and I'm looking forward to reading the rest of Whipple's work. The afterword in this edition was spot on, enlightening and well pitched. Thank you Persephone for publishing Ms. Whipple's works and bring them to my generation.
Deceptively calm book about a family in the early 20th century. The undercurrents in the relationships are calm and the flat narration pulls you into the story, hooks you and doesn't let you go till the last page.
Dorothy Whipple is a gift and I loved this novel. A simple and wonderful story about a lovely grandmother, her lovely granddaughter their lovely relationship and the good/ bad and ugly (namely garbage person Ambrose) world happening around them.
Because this was a kindle edition with an afterward, the ending caught me completely off guard. For that reason (and because the Persephone editions are so gorgeous) I wish I would have read the DTB. Vintage Dorothy Whipple.
