https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/108630.The_Southern_Gates_of_Arabia
Freya Stark was a remarkable woman who travelled throughout the Middle East in the 1930’s.
She was fluent in Arabic and Arabian history and wrote many popular travel books at a time when women did not travel alone.
When travelling through Yemen, she hired members of local Bedouin tribes to guide her to historical regions, old villages, and along the ancient spice routes.
The Hadhramaut region of Yemen is the home of the rare Frankincense tree from the species Boswellia.
This is a humorous and delightful look at a region of the world that is still today largely unknown and misunderstood.
Therefore we thank the nation that has produced this noble lady, and do tribute to her lofty enterprise and her aspiring soul."And I, the writer, stand forth to represent my brothers the pupils of the educational school, asking the Lord that she may have a happy journey and a fortunate return, and that peace accompany her when she alights and proceeds, and in conclusion I offer the heartiest greeting."I withheld a fifth star because no photographs were included in the book.

Freya Stark's The Southern Gates of Arabia: A Journey in the Hadhramaut ends with its author becoming ill midway on her journey to her ultimate destination, Shabwa, center of the ancient trade in frankincense.
Yet her eyes are always open, and she continues to observe and note the events of her days, even when she is lying in bed.The Southern Gates of Arabia is considered a classic, despite the fact that, ostensibly, it was a failure.
The reason is that Freya Stark is a superb writer.
Despite she is a woman traveling alone in a particularly warlike part of Arabia (namely, Yemen), she manages to find acceptance almost wherever she goes.
Unfortunately, Stark's travels are beset by illness: she comes down with the measles, and though she recovers, she's later struck with heart troubles and has to be rescued by the R.A.F. Her biggest concern is the fact that she won't be the first European to explore the ruined city she wants to get to.
I think this is because the language is so rich, and because it is true travel writing: not just the story of one person's journey, but a real picture of a place and a time and the people who lived there and how they lived.
I learned of Freya Stark when I read Bitter Lemons of Cyprus by Lawrence Durrell, when he was the Minister of Information in Cyprus.
So when I found this book, I knew I had to read it.
Stark traveled to the Hadhramaut region (now part of Yemen) in 1934 to find the lost city of Shabwa, which is along the ancient frankincense trade there.
What was unique about this trip, was that she traveled alone (in other words without servants or fellow countrymen), but local Bedouin tribes, Sultans and Sheiks helped her along her route.
existentialist trek through HadhramautTrekking over the desolate, rocky plateau that lies between the coast and the interior valleys of Hadhramaut, Freya Stark travelled in 1935 with a group of Bedu and a government slave-soldier.
Stark aimed to travel to Shabwa, a long-lost ancient city much further in the interior of the Arabian peninsula, to an area then contested between Yemen and Saudi Arabia.
For a travel book that describes a time long gone and a place still far from the beaten track-do you know many people who have been to Shibam, Makalla, Tarim, or al Qatn ?---you cannot do much better.
A MUST READ A WOMAN AHEAD OF HER TIME!!!
I don't think I could have read this travel description if I hadn't first read the biography of her by Jane Fletcher Geniesse also wrote the forward to this book.
And also I had to read Wikipedia's entry on Yemen as my knowledge of the area was not much, and the names of many places she visits have changed.
A few more footnotes would have helped.
The writing by Stark is lovely and I envy her traveling in these parts in a time when a well-connected western woman traveling alone was so unusual that all the tribal leaders and royalty graciously entertained and housed her wherever she went.
And I learned a lot, a 3.6

Maybe 3.5 stars, as I did feel my eyes glazing over from time to time, but generally I really enjoyed both her account, as well as the opportunity to read a description of a Middle Eastern region from a historical perspective.
Beautifully written, engrossing, and poignant, with great insights into life and human character. This book proves that violence is not required for a great adventure, and that the smallest details of life create a sweepingly romantic story.
Beautiful. Especially suited to the 1980's in Manchester during a slow burning heroin habituation. Somehow nodding out didn't spoil a thing...
Another intrepid travellerin Araby. I so love thesepeople and the luck of livingwhen they did and the worldsthey got to see.
Freya Stark was mentioned in To War with WhitakerBy Hermoine Ranfurly. They met during WW2.
