https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1946070.The_Poisoned_Chocolates_Case
The Sinker - In Berkeley’s short story The Avenging Chance a club member receives an anonymous sample box of chocolates, and in turn it is given to a friend who then dies from poisoning.
If you know what to put in and what to leave out you can prove anything you like, quite conclusively.”Will you be able to nail the murderer?With the fair play that is paramount to The Detection Club, with cunning and humor, The Poisoned Chocolates Case is the great Golden Age Puzzle it is professed to be.
Can the amateur brains of Roger Sheringham's Crime Circle solve this intriguing crime that's stumped Scotland Yard over the past year?From Wiki: The Poisoned Chocolates Case (1929) is a detective novel by Anthony Berkeley set in 1920s London in which a group of armchair detectives, who have founded the "Crimes Circle", formulate theories on a recent murder case Scotland Yard has been unable to solve.
Each of the six members, including their president, Berkeley's amateur sleuth Roger Sheringham, arrives at an altogether different solution as to the motive and the identity of the perpetrator, and also applies different methods of detection (basically deductive or inductive or a combination of both).
4 stars. A terrific Golden Age mystery! Brief background (no spoilers, so don't worry!): Sir Eustace, a womanizing cad, received a box of chocolates at his club with a solicitation from the firm to test their new flavors. He didn't want them, so Mr. Bendix took them home for his wife. After eating some, Mr. Bendix was taken ill and Mrs. Bendix died. The police are stymied, so they don't object when Roger Sheringham proposed that his 'Crime Circle' try solving the case. Each of the 6 members work
The police are stymied, so they don't object when Roger Sheringham proposed that his 'Crime Circle' try solving the case.
Each of the 6 members worked independently and then presented their solution to the club.
Because so many of the 'Circle' were authors, we get to see the various approaches commonly used in mystery novels critiqued.
I thought that I had guessed the solution early on but the actual killer was a big surprise!!
I did feel some pride though that my solution was one of the ones proposed...
From BBC radio 4 Extra:A woman has died from eating poisoned chocolates intended for somebody else...Can the amateur brains of Roger Sheringham's Crime Circle solve this intriguing crime that's stumped Scotland Yard over the past year?Stars Neil Stacy as Roger Sheringham, Hilda Schroder as Mrs Fielder-Flamming, Conrad Phillips as Sir Charles Wildman, Victor Winding as Moresby, Michael Bilton as Chitterwick, Geoffrey Collins as Bradley, Jane Wenham as Alicia, William Eedle as Lockwood, Mark Straker as Bendix, Clive Panto as Sir Eustace, Eileen Tully as Mrs Bendix and Deborah Cranston Marguerite.Director: Brian MillerFirst broadcast on BBC Radio 4 in 1984.http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b097lnkn
Blasphemy!!!When Joan Bendix dies of poisoning, it’s quickly clear that the weapon was a box of chocolate liqueurs given to her by her husband.
Secondly, and more importantly, he had had no chance to poison the chocolates – he had been given them by a man at his club, Sir Eustace Pennefather, that very morning.
Enter Roger Sheringham and the members of his Crimes Circle...As Martin Edwards explains in his introduction, Berkeley wrote this to show how most detective fiction is carefully contrived so that each piece of evidence can have only one meaning – the meaning brilliantly deduced and revealed by the detective in the last scene.
Death by chocolate!Yes, really – let me explain!Notorious womaniser Sir Eustace Pennefather was staying at his London club when he received a complimentary box of liqueur chocolates in the post.
Sir Eustace was unimpressed.Graham Bendix, another member of the club, needed a box of chocolates.
He had lost a bet with his wife and the stake had been a box of chocolates.And so Bendix took the chocolates home.
I had to read the ending twice, and the second time it made perfect sense.The Poisoned Chocolates Case is, if you will excuse the pun, a confection.
3.75/5
A box of poisoned chocolates kills a woman.
The police are out of leads and turn the case over to a local group of mystery writers and armchair detectives.A clever book, the Rashomon of golden-age mysteries.
The book is basically a roast of the Detection Club, an actual group of writers that included Agatha Christie, G.K. Chesterton, Dorothy Sayers, Anthony Berkley (the author), and lots more.
The funny thing is that this book came first, then the club; I could be completely off.
If the short story "An Avenging Chance" is included in your edition--DON'T READ IT FIRST.
I'm not claiming that the book is a deep criticism of this but the parallels with stories of people falsely accused of crimes in real life are obvious and the fictional setting is a clever way of highlighting our own biases in thought.I also hesitate to say this but it feels like it has something of a "postmodern" sensibility.
The whole effect of the plot is to make us doubt what "evidence" really means, both in the context of the plot as well as in mystery stories in general and even in real life.
Berkeley, founder of the London-based Detection Club, a group of mystery writers pledged to play fair with clues with their readers, sets up his detective Roger Sheringham as the founder of the similar Crimes Circle.
In Ask a Policeman (1934), four real-life excellent mystery writers -- all members of the Detection Club -- take turns trying to solve a crime devised by two other members of the Detection Club; each comes up with a different resolution for the crime -- echoing the premise of The Poisoned Chocolates Case.
I love the Golden Age of detective fiction, but for some reason hadn't read Anthony Berkeley yet. What a unique and incredibly clever mystery. I'm off to find more Anthony Berkeley books.
In this story, the members of the Detection Club were offered a challenge by their president, Roger Sheringham, to solve a murder that had not yet been solved by Scotland Yard.
What you end up with is a series of potential solutions to the murder crime submitted by the members.
Actually, in this edition, the publishers asked the writer who wrote the introduction to provide one of his own solutions, too.
The crime was an inadvertent killing of a woman after eating several pieces of chocolate from a box given to her by her husband.
I-am dat trei stele mai ales pentru final si pentru ca ma simteam vinovata ca l-am învinuit pe autor de predictibilitate vreo trei sferturi din roman (în sensul ca eram sigura ca am descoperit asasinul, de parca l-as descoperi vreodata :D :D :D).Nici stilul nu e de lepadat, un fel de Rodica Ojog Brasoveanu dar muuult mai cizelata.

The members of the Crime Circle filed out of the room, leaving one figure sitting in the darkness on the edge of the scene.
Nonetheless, they had watched the entire proceedings.“I have another suspect,” this figure said.
It was the voice, of course, of the Readers.A man’s voice.
“You do?” “I suspect you, of course.
You’re guilty of the murder of Mrs Bendix.”“I might as well suspect you,” the man replied, after a moment.“But you’re the Writer,” the indeterminate voice said.
You’re guilty of the murder.
Mrs Bendix has died over and over again — at your hands, not mine.”There was no possible answer to this last point, and the writer received none.
I attempted to read this book 4 times. I read to about page 55, but I kept putting the book down. Too much verbiage! I guess that I was not in the mood for this type of mystery, but it will be in my library so when I am ready to handle this type of mystery, I will know where to find it!
A great concept and a lot of fun to read. A clever demonstration of the pitfalls of inductive and deductive approaches to detection when assumptions are not questioned, facts not meticulous verified and alternative explanations not canvassed. My only complaint is the ending. Even in in a pre-DNA evidence world, I think it’s weak. It’s a shame, because it was an entertaining and engaging read, well sustained until that point.
This is probably the best of the "multiple detectives come up with multiple serial solutions to a murder" sub-sub-genre.
Still loving these crime classics. This one no exception, good twist at the end. Wonder if it's ever been made into a film...first published in 1929.
Come sempre, ho trovato un bel po’ di esagerazioni nelle recensioni lette al riguardo.
Passino quelle scritte da coloro che, per dovere, debbono per forza “tirare acqua al loro mulino”.
Perché sbrodolarsi in entusiastici commenti che, oggettivamente, non sono meritati?L’idea di fondo non è male, il problema è che viene svolta in chiave prevalentemente umoristica.
Più che un omicidio, pare uno scherzo di carnevale.
Poi, certo, ben vengano le vecchie atmosfere “gialle”, sono la prima a rimpiangerle.
Ma mica basta questo per confezionare un bel romanzo poliziesco.
Six different amateurs come up with six different theories about a murder the police have been unable to solve.
You say to yourself, "All right, they're making assumptions about human nature here, but no more than later and more literary writers like P.D. James or (in a completely different way) Patricia Cornwell." But it turns out those assumptions are not mere conventions.
What that theory was, I have to admit, was a complete surprise.
And the only way to know it's correct is that the murderer tacitly admitted it through action.
Each of the six members works independently, following their own methods of solving the murder.
Most of the story takes place at the meetings of the Circle where the deductions are presented and each member has to convince the others of the strength of their case.
Its interesting how each member is varied in their methods, in the angle they choose to look for in the case, in the level of significance they place to each of the clues...
Most or all investigative action happens in background - Read it for the deductions, arguments, defence which the members put forth!

#BLCCChallenge - February 2017

This is more of a 3.5 than a 3, it's the last chapter of the book where the detective stands up in front of a drawing room full of suspects and waxes lyrical.
Only this time it's a murder club and there are six sleuths trying to out do each other.
My dad will like this one more than I did :) What knocks of a star is the god awful fan fiction chapters at the end of the kindle version.
did not need other authors, no matter how well known they are, to tack their own additions on to the end of it.
How fun was this?
Most of the book takes place around a table as the six members of the Crimes Circle Club put forth their individual solutions to a murder by chocolate.
I thought I had the solution myself, but it turned out to be only the third from the last solution.
Thoroughly enjoyed this as motives and suspects changed as each detective came up with a different solution ...
and each solution made sense ...
Anthony Berkeley was a master of the puzzle mystery during the Golden Age and also wrote under the name of Frances Iles.
I think this book ranks right up there with Roger Ackroyd and Orient Express with a twist. The detective work is done by a group of six people who bear some resemblance to the Detection Club. As can be expected, all members have a solution. The final summing up takes all previous solutions into consideration. Oh so very interesting.....This book gets mentioned in several "best mystery" lists and deserves its place there. I hope I can find enough copies for our mystery discussion group because this is so discussable.
My first Roger Sheringwood story. It was a gathering of a crime club working to decipher a cold case. Scotland Yard is apparently stymied. I think they all take to work up their own conclusions and present them, one per night. It seems like each debunks the previous one, and all preceding ones, too. Finally, a Casper Milquetoast-type is the last person. And they are all certain he knows nothing. He knows plenty... he has been taking notes ... he has a chart.I didn't get it.(view spoiler)[I did conclude that it was one of the party. (hide spoiler)]
A 'crime circle' get together to try and solve a real case that Scotland Yard have been struggling with. Made up from a few novelists/dramatists and a barrister, the members of the circle take it in turns to present their view on the case, each coming up with a different murderer, method and motive.A great idea for a mystery novel. However I found it incredibly verbose and quite a struggle to get through.
