https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/442784.The_Con_Man
About the body's only distinguishing feature at this point is a small tattoo, drawn into the space between the victim's thumb and first finger.With no real leads to follow, the detectives of the 87th Precinct are virtually stymied in attempting to find the killer.
Steve Carella now has the first hint of a clue and as he pursues a very clever killer he suddenly also has a very personal stake in stopping the Con Man before he claims his next victim.This is a quick, fun read that will whet the appetite of any McBain fan for the books that follow.
He snapped his fingers for the waiter, and while they waited for him to come to their table, she leaned over and whispered the three most expensive words in the English language."I love you."And he looked at her with tender guile and answered with the three cheapest words in the English language."I love you."Anyone can be a con man.
All of the models looked the same.
They were too, in essence, con men themselves.And then there are the romance writers who con lonely women into believing romantic fantasies, making them vulnerable to being conned by predators...There is a con man on the loose, bilking the citizens, using cons both simple and elaborate.
This is the second one I've read, and I primarily decided to delve into the backlist because I read a wikipedia article about Scandinavian Noir that suggested that one of the pioneering writers in that genre was influenced by McBain's 87th Precinct novels.Stylistically, these are very different from modern police procedurals, with very stripped down language and character/narrative arcs that don't extend beyond a single book.
I'm interested to read a few more to see how McBain's style changes over the years that he was writing his series.
The year turns and another 87th Precinct book breezes through.
The detectives of the 87th are trying to reel in a couple of tricksters who are working their way through the confidence trick handbook, fleecing the rich and poor for a fortune or a dime.
But it's Steve Carella who discovers a far more sinister and deadly conman at work.
As ever the characters are great and becoming more familiar by the book.
With the investigations waiting for that one killer lead, McBain revels in dangling them in front of the wrong eyes at the wrong time.
This one works up to a particularly suspenseful finale with Teddy aiding in the investigation.
Detective Steve Carella and his partner Bert Kling are assigned to the case and start trying to establish the identity of the dead woman, whose only clothing consisted of a bra and who had no identification, and to work out how she came to be in the water.Before they can solve the first murder, yet another "floater" turns up.
Apparently, they will continue to be at the center of future mysteries in the series.By this time, McBain had really perfected his technique of writing a scintillating beginning to his tales, one that hooks you from the first sentence and keeps you turning pages.
I was in a bit of a book slump, so I thought I would check out "The Con Man", the 4th in the series.
Are the two crime acts linked?Ok, so out of the three books I've read, this is my least favourite.
The last few scenes are fun and intense and I can't help but love her.While this book is my least favourite of the three I've read due too the few long dull scenes, it is still not a bad book.
If you are looking for lightning fast reads with a lot of suspense, then I recommend this series!
I've been trying to read these books in order.
Although the plot of each is stand alone, the development of the characters defiantly builds from book to book.
Reading them out of sequence would probably result in the odd spoiler here and there.In this book there are a couple of con men loose in the city.
Even though this was written in the 50's, it's still a decent crime story with lots of nostalgic value.I don't have book #5 so will take a break from this series until I have the next 2 or 3.
This 4th entry in the 87th Precinct series again features Steve Carella & this time his deaf-mute wife Teddy plays a big part. While con men, big & small, are featured, this book is really a murder mystery at heart.
he includes a missing person report...an actual form, looks like, two pages worth2.
vonnegut did that a lot in a few of his, others, stephen king, the narrative does not follow one cop, one con man, one victim, though it has so far followed many cops, many victims of either a con, or more.there's a nice "afterword" in which mcbain includes a mistake from a previous version of the story, scene where teddy (the wife of one of the cops) hears things....she's a "deaf-mute" in an earlier incarnation, though no longer referred to as such...mcbain says in the afterword that a reader said the term is derogatory...etc.there's some nice scenes here...charlie chen, the tattoo artist is a hoot.
Time, though, has moved the police procedural genre a long way forward; the 87th Precinct series has period charm if you are kind or else feels simply dated.Having been a devotee many years ago, I cannot really believe that even then The Con Man was McBain at his best.
The result is to stall the narrative and leave this reader anyway irritated.The Con Man is not helped by the major of its two themes - a serial killer of vulnerable women - being not entirely plausible at the outset and close to barmy by its solution.
I am sorry to have diluted my admiration for McBain.
A good book.
Detective Arthur Brown is the lead detective on a hunt for a con man tricking anyone from a young girl of her last $5 and sophisticated businessmen for hundreds.
Detective Steve Carella is the lead on the hunt for a man who is poisoning young women and dumping them in the river; the "floaters" are found weeks or months later, making them much harder to identify and subsequently harder to track down the killer.
Carella's beautiful deaf/mute wife Teddy plays a more prominent role in this book; we get a closer look into their relationship.
What's new? The always good Ed McBain writes a good book. What can you say that hasn't been said before. I can't think of anything, but it does create a problem for me. He wrote 55 books in this series, I've only read 4 and I'm 65 and I never read back to back books in the same series. So I have to go now cause I got some serious catching up to do.Damn bucket list items, whatever happened to the concept of a leisurely retirement?
I can only suppose they've read far into the series, as I'm just as book 4 and mystified by their popularity.HOOK - 2 stars: This novel opens with a 2-page description of the average working person then offers another option: "You can, in short, become a con man." Then, it's several pages before any kind of story to kick in.
But I don't believe for a second average joes, bored with regular work, turn to murder.PEOPLE - 2: The author offers us more about Detective Steve Carella's speech and hearing impaired wife, Teddy.
The Con Man is the fourth book in the series by Ed McBain that features an ensemble cast of detectives in the 87th precinct.
The best lead is a distinctive tattoo between the victim’s thumb and forefinger, and when a second body appears in the river sporting a similar tattoo, Carella knows he’s onto something.The beauty of the 87th Precinct series involves McBain’s ability to both describe police procedures and, in certain books, to delve deeply into the psychological machinations of his villains as well as protagonists.
Another interesting cop read, with Carella and co.
The 4th book in the 87th Precinct crime/detective series and my favourite so far.
I'm also not that interested in knowing all the different methods of lifting fingerprints.
If you can give me those details as part of the story then fine but paragraphs just listing them all is not the way to do it as it bores the reader.
Series favourite Steve Carella was back after nearly get killed off in the last book, along with patrolman-turned-detective Bert Kling.
I love that we get to see different detectives taking centre stage in each book.
Ed McBain's early 87th Precinct novels take place in the 1950s and they are as interesting for the clothes and the food and the attitudes of the time as for the clever plots.
Most important is our growing acquaintance with the detectives of the 87th and their old pals, informers, and girl friends and spouses.
This story circles around the new marriage of one detective to a woman who is deaf and so cannot speak and who, despite what the difficulties she sometimes has communicating, can get a message to the right place at the right time when she needs to.
Steve Carella of the 87th Precinct is on the trail of a con man. His only clue is a tattoo on the hand of one of his victims. Ed McBain is a master of police procedural, mystery, urban noir, etc. His books are packed with cops and crooks, danger and downtime, and the city in all its sleaze and in all its glory. The Con Man is no exception. If you want a book that will keep you up all night because you can't put it down, look no farther (further?).
The 87th have a run of floaters that set Steve Carella on the track of a con man and murderer, while Arthur Brown is hunting for a trickster that takes smaller sums from easy marks but is annoy when $5 is taken from a working girl. This is a simple easy to read detective novel that moves at a good pace and is consumed in two evenings. The series is now taking on some shape that gets you looking for the next edition.
Some have far more sinister intentions, like the man responsible for the appearance of a floater in the river whose tattoo of a heart is about her only distinguishing feature.Much as I liked the story, it’s far from being my favourite.I was trying to work out why that might have been.
Knowing what was about to play out detracted from the stings and took away some of the romance I usually associate with the occupation.A final niggle was Teddy Carella’s involvement in the case.
It’s here and in her thoughts on getting some art work of her own that Teddy shines.
This was the first Ed McBain book that I've read but hopefully not the last because I loved the humour in it. The characters were quite interesting and the plot kept me curious but it's mostly the style that I really liked.
I read that David Foster Wallace had an 87th Precinct novel called Fuzz as one of his favorite books, so I decided to give the series a try.
Also, when a black detective named Arthur Brown visits a skid row hotel, he is rebuffed by the clerk with the ingrained racism of the 1950s.
The clerk, who doesn't know at first that Brown is a detective, hand waves him to the door with a simple, "We don't take niggers." A short while later, while Brown is taking a guest out of the hotel to interview him at the precinct about his possible involvement in a recent criminal case, the potential suspect asks if he can just ask him in the hotel room.
The first three entries haven't been digitized yet; so I started with number 4, "The Con Man." The catalog annotation which was written by the National Library Service for the Blind and Physically Handicapped, gives a basic idea of the story without giving too much away; so I'll simply quote that to provide context for the rest of the review: "Steve Carella of the 87th Precinct is up against a con man who uses various scams against young women.
That's why I'm looking forward to reading (or in some instances rereading) the rest of the series.
In The Con Man (the fourth book in the 87th precinct series, circa 1957) McBain delivers a standard entry into the series.
McBain’s strengths lay in a couple of areas, both of which are present in this entry.
McBain’s people come off the page.
In The Con Man these elements combine in the last 30 pages to make one of the most suspenseful climaxes I’ve encountered in a long time.
What does make him palatable is the people he populates his books with; some likeable, some despicable, some comical, some pitiful, all extremely believable, and creativity of the crimes and the pursuits.©2015 M.
He is one hell of a handsome bastard and eventually he gets their money as they erroneously fall in love with him.
Craella is on the case and his non speaking non hearing wife sees the girl and murderer come into the chinese person Chen (Calls himself Chan after the detective) the tatoo palour, where she has gone to get a tatoo on the shoulder to surprise her husband steve.She follows and leaves written notes for someone to call the 87th and Steve.
Message gets through and Steve arrives to save wife and girl.
I especially love that his books (more or less) hold up 50 years after he wrote them, though a cell phones would have really changed the ending of this story: (view spoiler)[ Teddy Carella could have texted Steve from the tattoo parlor and she wouldn't have been chased and then threatened by Chris Donaldson, the con man who was wooing wealthy woman and then killing them with arsenic.
the 1950's?I also love that Arthur Brown apprehended the OTHER con men (there are ultimately three of them in this book, though McBain would argue that there are many more than that walking around) by walking into them and going through the whole coin con with them.
Written in 1957, my favorite dated aspects of the narrative: *When talking about pretty girls, it is noted that no one cares if you are smart "so long as you have a beautiful phizz." *Pointing out the absurdity of something, it is stated that it "takes the brass bologna" and "wins the fur-lined bathtub." Main man Steve Carella (freshly recovered from his nearly fatal shooting in The Pusher) and his deaf/mute wife Teddy (who is yet again involved in a crime relating to Carella's investigations) track down the deadly Lonely Hearts killer, rookie Detective Kling assists while helping his college student fiancee Claire con her school into granting her an early vacation, and newly introduced Brown (the 87th's first Black Detective) attempts to stop a pair of street smart confidence men.
The fault was always placed on the killer and descriptions of him reinforced that stance.I found the secondary characters the most engaging.
But the secondary characters were fun.
I especially liked the Chinese tattoo artist; he shows up speaking in broken english and I was afraid I was in for a horrible stereotype, but then he received a couple pages of back story and provided important information.
But I think that if you're not already a fan of that or procedural cop shows this wouldn't hold much interest.

There was one man’s anguish that could almost be felt.While I don’t appreciate reading extraneous information about individual characters unless the telling is vital to the story, I did enjoy the telling of how Carella feels about his wife.
With makeup.
Without the veneer of makeup.
At times these parts seemed really dragged out, keeping me from wanting to get back to the book.
Other times however, it was remarkable and interesting reading how they ply their “trade.” While parts dragged, the last part of the book moved along at an increased pace, really livening things up.
