https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2550003.The_Penguin_Pool_Murder
In the interest of full disclosure, I am a teacher myself; therefore, I am admittedly inclined to love the no-nonsense Miss Hildegarde Withers, a third-grade teacher at Jefferson School in New York City just months after the 1929 Stock Market Crash.
Teaming up with the investigating police officer, the cigar-chomping Inspector Piper, Miss Withers proves herself more than his equal in ferreting out the facts of the case and the identity of the murder.The Penguin Pool Murder reminds one of the filmed version of Dashiell Hammett's The Thin Man or a Noël Coward play.
How is it that Miss Withers isn't more well known?
Written in 1938, the murder mystery is solved by a grade school teacher and police inspector. There are so many rules broken that allow people to tamper with evidence, that it makes it difficult to read for the mind in 2011. You can't help reading it and thinking, you can't allow that Inspector! The writing seems to play to the heart as much as to someone hoping to read a mystery story. I would say this falls under the category-- Romantic/Mystery writing typical of the 20's through 40's.
And it appears he may have a thing with his secretary (I think they cut her out of the movie).
These three - Lester, Mrs. Lester and the lawyer all meet up at the Aquarium one day, along with Miss Withers and her "Grade Number Three", along with a number of other people.
Lester, the questionable stock broker, will wind up in the pool with the penguin (The title kind of gives that away).Inspector Oscar Piper shows up and somehow Miss Withers tags along with him, taking notes, insinuating herself into the case.An entertaining read.I only had one question: didn't taxis get tipped in those days?
3.5* A fun Golden Age mystery, even if I did figure it out about halfway through.
I don't usually pick the murderer out of the gate, but I did in this one. Not a bad one, but SP is clearly still hitting his stride with Ms. Withers & co - it's not as smart or atmospheric as The Puzzle of the Red Stallion. I'll definitely keep going in the series, though!
Reading this book is like watching a 1930s classic film. Each character jumps from the page, particularly the main two, perfectly created and perfectly matched. Not surprisingly, the movie based on this book was a hugely popular hit in the early 30s.
Dated but still an entertaining read - you can even watch the film on you tube if it takes your fancy. And Hildergarde is a most worthy sleuth.
Couldn't put it downThis book was so well written, I felt immersed in the story and that these characters were real. Stuart Palmer drew a wonderful picture for me of Miss Withers and the Inspector. The plot was well thought out and executed with an exciting surprise ending. Great fun!
Although I sussed out both the murderer and motive pretty easily, I still really enjoyed this entry. It's the first in the series and I liked the main characters - a spinster school teacher and a very indulgent cop - quite a bit. Will definitely read more in the series.
A wonderful mysteryA witty, fun, mystery with an old maid school teacher and her sharp tongue pitting wits with a police detective. Witty banter and one liners abound to add fun to a great mystery. Can you solve the crime? The clues are there.
Light & bright mystery, but I must admit - I liked the movie better!
Really a 3.5. The later books in this series are much better on my opinion. It was good to see how it started though.
A mystery from the thirties set right after the stock market crash featuring a female detective. Dated. but fun to see nascent emergence of a woman in a previously all man's world.
An entertaining mystery with a humorous voice.
Fun, engaging 1930s era mystery. Not exactly up to Agatha Christie standards but enjoyable if you like the classic, Golden Age, mysteries, which I do. In this first book in the series, spinster schoolteacher Hildegarde Withers, assists a grumpy police inspector after a body is found in the penguin exhibit at the zoo. This was not an easy book to find, however (SPL doesn't own the books or ebooks; I read it as an ebook from KCLS) so I probably will not bother to track down the rest of the series. There is also a 1932 movie version.
Quite an interesting book despite many factual inconsistencies and certain liberties taken with police procedure ☺. It was fun to read. But if one is too concerned with correctness in the story, it can be disappointing
Miss Hildegarde Withers is just in time to see a body slide into the penguin pool while on a field trip to the New York Aquarium with her third grade class.
And so begins her association with the investigation and with Detective Piper.The Penguin Pool Murder was recently released on May 14th, 2013 by MysteriousPress.com.
It was interesting to read a cozy set in this time period though.
Leap thither," he responds.If you enjoy The Penguin Pool Murder, there is a whole line of Hildegarde Withers mysteries.Disclaimer: I received a copy of this book in exchange for my unbiased opinion
A bit disappointing if you know the Edna May Oliver/James Gleason films based on Palmer's book and characters. Very much of its time, but that's no criticism. Neat last two chapters, though.
Miss Withers' class is on a field trip to the New York Aquarium, which, by the way, is the oldest continuously operating aquarium in the US.
As the class searches for the pin, Miss Withers witnesses a body being tossed into the penguin pool.
And the murder weapon was Miss Withers' hat pin.In The Penguin Pool Murder by Stuart Palmer, published in 1932, we are forcibly reminded of the costumes and customs of the era.
The murderer's hat fell into the penguin pool and he couldn't leave his hiding place without it.
Great pains have been taken in the production of this audio book through accents and the like to emphasise both the New York setting of this story and the period in which it is set, just after the Wall street crash.I found the premise of an NYPD detective in investigative partnership with a spinster school teacher rather unlikely but the plot is an intriguing one, and despite the early arrest of the victim's wife's lover, there are a number of possible candidates, all of whom are explored as the plot unfolds.
This mystery series was unknown to me until mentioned on a blog (I wish I could remember which one; I'd give you credit).
Hildegarde Withers is a 30-something school teacher looking for adventure.
Of course in the end it is Hildegarde who solves the mystery in a typical but nice explanation of the crime.
This is a nicely written book; not quite up to the level of Christie or Sayers, but certainly enjoyable itself.
The setting is October 1929 and the stock market crash plays a role in the crime.
It seems there are about a dozen more Hildegard Withers mysteries.
The Penguin Pool Murder by Stuart Palmer This book was written in 1938 and reads like a 30's movie.
I could hear the "tough guy" accents and the "doll's" flirtatious "innocents".
Some attitudes and words were not politically correct, something I wouldn't excuse in a current book, but take time and culture into account with this book.
In my mind's eye, I could see the art deco style of the museum and other buildings mentioned.The mystery was clever and took interesting twists and turns.
I found this interesting enough, I am planning to buy the next book in the series to see if it improves in complexity.
Miss Withers has taken her third graders to the New York aquarium in Battery Park when they find a body in with the very disturbed penguins.
There were many people who had motives to kill the dead man, including his wife and her old boyfriend, in addition to the aquarium director, who'd lost money in the recent stock market crash.
For those who've read some of the later Withers mysteries, the ending may seem a bit shocking--Palmer obviously changed his mind between the first of this series and the next one.

Given the name, I think I expected a lot out of this book, and, consequently, was disappointed when it didn't deliver everything I was hoping for.
Set and originally written in the 30s, the book contains many terms and phrases that I was completely unfamiliar with.
For me, it was a difficult story to really enjoy when I kept being amazed at how proper evidenciary procedures were not being followed, especially since I'm a lover of the modern murder mystery.
The book wasn't my cup of tea, though since I did enjoy Miss Withers as a protagonist, I might consider giving some of the following books in the series a read to see if they might grow on me.
If you enjoy old "B" reel comedy detective movies, you'll enjoy this book. The main character, Hildegarde Withers, is the old fashioned schoolteacher you imagine from the past - complete with hat and hat pin! By sheer circumstance, Miss Withers is a crime witness, but the always opinionated Hildegarde can't help trying to solve the case for the detectives. My favorite part of the story is the dialogue and descriptions in the court room scene - absolutely wonderful! This light comedic mystery is a fun read for both young and old. Enjoy!
Reminds me of the fun in the old mystery films from the thirties, well, it takes place just after The Crash, and was published in 1931.
Miss Withers is believable, and a young Kate Hepburn would have done justice to her snarks and take-charge attitude.
The cigar chewing detective who is smart enough to enlist her help is well done, also.
It is a pleasant read with enough twists and misdirections to keep it interesting.
Ms. McKay was perfect as Hildegard, and did okay with the men, too.I am glad that I bought it on the cheap as Whispersync courtesy of EarlyBirdBooks.com.
I got the book because I liked the b-grade movie made from the book (It stars Edna May Oliver as Hildegarde Withers -- speaking of movies, in Murder by Death, the Agatha Christie character wheels in her nanny & that nanny is based on Hildegarde).
The book is not well written.
I am not sure exactly what's off about it, but it's ham-fistedly written.
The story is fine & the characters translated better to the screen than you'd guess from the book.
I wish it were better & I wish Edna May Oliver & James Gleeson had made more of the series.
I liked this book for the characters and setting more than the writing style, which was pretty sparse. The plot was interesting and moved along well. I'll probably read more of his books to see how the characters develop.
I listened to this mystery on Audible and was pretty bored with the characters and the story plot. I think if I were reading this book I would have put this down a quarter way through. Maybe it is an old book but it was an old fashioned murder mystery.
