https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5970556-the-sound-and-the-fury-as-i-lay-dying
Didn't like at all. Faulkner's writing is so difficult to follow.
Faulkner's novel demonstrates the fall and then plummet of the children of an aristocratic Southern family in the early 20th century--the painfully depressed oldest son Quentin, the doomed beauty Caddy, the embittered, distrustful Jason, and Benjy, the youngest, who is mentally disabled yet the only person who finds any sense of joy in this self-destructive family, but only because he is so sadly unable to understand the world around him.
Two chapters are mostly written using stream of consciousness, which is a very challenging style to read and understand.
"As I Lay Dying" is the Faulkner story that has stuck with me the most over the years, though "The Sound and The Fury" was the first Faulkner I ever read, -it inspired me to read more of his work, and of course, it's a classic! 5 thumbs up!
Dva vrhunska romana - BUKA I BIJES i KAD LEŽAH NA SAMRTI - prvi u mislima raste nakon čitanja; drugi je prava slastica baš tijekom čitanja.
Perhaps one needs to read it three times in a row.The story is about the crumbling of a Southern family and is told from different points of view in each section: an outside voice in the intro (Appendix) and the last section, Benjy (the mentally disabled brother), Quentin (the suicide), and Jason (the bitter and mean-spirited).
Dilsey is right that a curse will follow the mother's changing the name of her disabled child because she is mortified by him.One thing I never took in from my college classes on this book was how much Caddy wanted to do right by her daughter and was blocked by Jason.
Împărțită în patru părți, primele trei redate prin prisma câte unuia dintre frați (interesant este aici faptul că sora lor Candance/Caddy este lăsată de-o parte, deși tot romanul se rotește în jurul ei) și doar ultima din punctul de vedere al unui narator omniscient, cartea include patru tehnici narative distincte.Prima parte, a cărei acțiune se desfășoară (de fapt are ca prezent această zi, dar se desfășoară doar incidental în ea) în ziua de 7 aprilie 1928, este văzută (deși un termen mult mai potrivit ar fi aici simțită) prin ochii lui Benjy, născut Maury, care, deși nu ni se spune în mod clar de ce anume suferă, având la vârsta de 33 de ani mintea unui copil de trei ani, putem presupune că are o formă de retardare severă.
First read this in 97'. Shortly thereafter my prose went a little "modern." Highly influential (still like Light in August better.) This book is worth listening to (yes an audiobook.) The stream of consciousness is meant to be heard.
Low atmosphere.Dark but deep.
Never finished As I Lay Dying, but S & F was quite genius.So I'm switching AILD to the to-read list upon enthusiastic encouragement from Jackie. (but when but when?)
It has been so long since I have read these, and I read them for college courses at UWL I believe. I don't even remember if I liked or did not like them.
Made my head hurt after one page... Not my bag...
