https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18966806-morning-star
When I'm starting a big multi-volume story, one of the big concerns isn't just if the individual books are good.
And as anyone who ever watched the Matrix movies knows, the final part of a trilogy can, in effect, go back in time and ruin the previous otherwise enjoyable story.
And personally, I'm a big fan of complexity.The other thing that really stands out is the fact that the books are unpredictable without being irritating or disappointing.
I'm pretty good at anticipating where a story is going to go, and these books constantly zigged when I expected them to zag.
If the zombie apocalypse happens before this book is released I will never forgive you, Pierce.
This book was so freaking good I can't even people!
I have to stop loving people in books, damn it!
There were so many parts in the book I wanted to kill the bad people myself.
When I got halfway or a little more than halfway (hell I don't know) through the book I wanted to toss it!
The ending was pretty sweet though, I mean I can't deny that and if you have read or do read the book then you will or know what I'm talking about.
=) I have to say again, the death of one of the evil people was sooooooooooo good.
Epic finale to an epic trilogy! Like with the first two books, I did have some trouble connecting to the writing and the main character, but the fascinating world and thrilling storyline definitely made up for that!If you want an awesome sci-fi full of plot twists and grittiness and political maneuvering, this is definitely worth checking out!
Servo and Ragnar become brothers-from-another-mother in Darrow's absence, leading the Rising together, and they are damn hilarious:
BUT.I have one major issue with this installment, and unlike last year's issues with GOLDEN SON, this one will NOT go away with the (inevitable) reread: (view spoiler)[Maybe this is my fault, but I glossed over the whole Mustang and Cassius thing.
Mustang is supposed to be the bloodydamn smartest Gold in existence after her brother, and that's the best she can come up with?I call:If it had only been that, I might've been able to ignore it (b/c happier that way), but in conjunction with "testing" Darrow before telling him THEY HAD A CHILD .
"Everything is cracked, everything is stained except the fragile moments that hang crystalline in time and make life worth living."4.5 stars because that was superbly concluded, truly!!!!!!It's one thing to have a good book throughout, but it's another thing entirely to have a marvelous book, then slam the readers in the face with a ridiculously wonderful yet entirely unpredictable ending.
Although this book has a fantasy setting, the wars are very much like the modern world, where one mans greed for power, over even one nations desire for consistency costs the powerless everything.
”Never mind the darkness you spread, never mind the night you summon, we will rage against it.”In my “Golden Son” review I remarked that reading the second book of this amazing trilogy was like playing chess without any rules.
We are voiceless.”I think this is the beginning of the book in a nutshell and if I’m entirely honest I don’t want to reveal all too much.
I still love his humour and his tender heart and even after three books I still feel like I want more!!!
However, it’s truly understandable, after the rollercoaster and all the shits that happened in Golden Son plus with everything build up from the first book, it’s obvious that there are a lot of things to settle in the last book to close the story and that results in slower pacing compared to its predecessor.The main theme of the series itself as Pierce Brown himself said had always been about gaining the strength to fight what you can’t control, to overcome oppression but to never lose sight of the most important aspect of our life which is loyalty, friendship, family, and love.
WHAT. AN. ENDING.This book threw my heart through several hoops, dropping it a few times and trampling all over it.I need some time to recover, but I am really satisfied by the conclusion.
“My son, my sonRemember the chainsWhen Gold ruled with iron reinsWe roared and roaredAnd twisted and screamedFor ours, a valeof better dreams”  It's over.Darrow au Andromedus, the son of Lykos, the Helldiver, the Howler, the Reaper, concluded his epic journey, a journey paved with blood, tears, mass murders and sacrifices, seeking a better future for the oppressed, the slaves and the victims of the Gold caste's cruelty.  Break the chains.  He was tortuted for months, and was left broken and hel
It's over.Darrow au Andromedus, the son of Lykos, the Helldiver, the Howler, the Reaper, concluded his epic journey, a journey paved with blood, tears, mass murders and sacrifices, seeking a better future for the oppressed, the slaves and the victims of the Gold caste's cruelty.
Assisted by his band of oathbreakers and misfits, like the Morning Star, he led the Valkyries away from their cold and unfriendly land, from darkness to light.
What Darrow and his friends proved throughout their story, what Pierce Brown kept shouting, was that people can change.
There will be a thousand reviews telling you about this book. I'm just going to ramble as usual. Expect no spoiling here.We're here to blow shit up." He throws open his arms and cackles. "Any questions?" I'm horrible about finishing series once I start them. My attention gets taken by another book and I don't have the best memory. That being said, I knew I had to see this one to the finish. Even though it took me a freaking week to read it. This book is a big old chunker. Not that a chunker is a
This book is a big old chunker.
This is not a book that you can read out of order.
The draggy moments made me wonder if the series had lost it's allure but right about the time I would start thinking that something would get blown up or some of that shit and I would line right back up for more kool-aid.
That Kool-aid is still just as tasty..because of stuff like this.They felt the death sentences had already been read, and they were just waiting for the hangman to come knocking.
❝We will howl and fight till our last breath, not just in the mines of Mars, but on the shores of Venus, on the dunes of Io’s sulfur seas, in the glacial valleys of Pluto. We will fight in the towers of Ganymede and the ghettos of Luna and the storm-stricken oceans of Europa. And if we fall, others will take our place, because we are the tide. And we are rising.❞  What can I even say? Where do I even begin? When I started the Red Rising trilogy on the eve of Christmas, I never anticipated that
When I started the Red Rising trilogy on the eve of Christmas, I never anticipated that the book I was about to start reading would later be my favorite series of all time, dethroning all the other books and series that have claimed that title before.
I've regretted not reading certain books any sooner than I did, but not as great as the regret I carry for passing up Red Rising numerous times.
Roque was such a sweetheart and so loyal since Red Rising.
I've cried many times throughout the whole series but not as much as I did when it came to Roque and Darrow.
THIS BOOK IS EVERYTHING!I just finished it couple of minutes ago and I think I'm still in shock from what I read.Morning Star is poignant story that crushed me, gave me goosebumps and consumed all my waking thoughts ever since I started reading it.
And I believe that this is a story that children of our children will be taught about in the future.Morning Star was out-of-this-world amazing.So all I'm going to say for now is: READ THIS BOOK/SERIES, GUYS!Sci-fi/dystopian genre can't get better than this.Pierce Brown, I'm your fan for life!UPDATE FEBRUARY 9th 2016:It is finally here!
Don't get me wrong I really enjoyed reading this novel, I just can't help but feel like this whole book was fillers, and most of the story was unnecessary to the plot.
“Bye, Felicia.” Victra spits, turning to the last Praetorian.” I'm glad there is so many great things happening in the background to help relieve the brutally & mind fuckery of the plot, I feel like if there wasn't a certain character (Sevro) I would have given this book three stars.
Okay so this three way bromance was my favorite thing in the book (apart from Sevro) seriously the banter was good and they had fun together killing people.
That puddle on their face is ME.(holy shit it's all so very clever)SMOL LIST OF THINGS I NOTICED WITH MY REREAD:• I remembered nothing before this ah hhaaha whoops• the audio is fantastic for me reading sci-fi...I understand so much better!• EVERYONE IS A CONNIVING SLYTHERIN• I LOVE THAT• Seriously the finale scene blows my mind every time• The world is so complex and the politics so intriguing and just...wow• Cassius is precious and one big cupcake of honour• Sevro is my actual favourite little shit and I love him and every time he opens his mouth there's 4 people lined up to say "NO SEVRO" which is beautiful• Darrow...just Darrow <3 <3 He is unbreakable (although I admit I would've liked to see a little more of the effects of his torture?!
The finale to Pierce Brown’s Red Rising Trilogy, Morning Star, packs a punch from action-packed beginning to (surprise) action-packed conclusion!
The series was a fun ride!
What most impressed me about this final installment was the character development of Darrow and his compatriots.
In the new world they’re creating, many have loyalties they can’t shake (part of the hierarchy of color in this world); however, some of them seek redemption in something bigger than themselves.
Not everybody will be able to achieve this.
And not everybody will live to see this new world.
Prepare for the final showdown!
3.5 Stars rounded up.
Lots of space battles, politics, and intrigue/betrayal.I love this world and although I would NEVER want to live in it, there are some truly unforgettable characters.
I feel like he might have messed around with reader emotions a little bit too much.
I can't help it.SPOILERS (view spoiler)[ I was about to rage about Cassius and Sevro, but then they ended up being okay.
I feel like Cassius is one of the saddest, most romantic characters in the whole trilogy.
I love Red Rising and Golden son, but this is Mickey-Carved hybrid monstrosity.
At some point during this series a favorite character will love, kill, die, betray, change for the better, change for the worse, make horrible decisions, make cold decision, sacrifice themselves or others, inspire, destroy, connive , manipulate or frustrate you to the point you are ready to bloodydamn throw the book across the room.The downtime and boring moments are few and far between and Morning Star tested my love for just about every character I was rooting for and made be despise to the very depths of my being the villains to our heroes.
I laughed, I cried, I cheered, I yelled at characters, I gave Servo a time out in the corner, I debated with friends over why I loved Mustang and they hated her but I bloodydamn enjoyed every emotion filled moment of it.
Sorry...I will say that I think this was a fantastic ending, and I'm glad that everything happened the way it...happened.With the exception one minor scene.Alright, now I don't think this is a spoiler, but for those of you who want to know NOTHING about what happens in this book...WTF are you reading reviews for?!K.Now that that's settled.So did anyone else think that scene where Mustang is telling Darrow that It's not your fault after {name redacted} dies, was janked straight out of Goodwill Hunting?Like, word for word!
There's no such thing as a perfect book, but (to me) this trilogy comes damn near to it.READ IT.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
#1.) Red Rising ★★★#2.) Golden Son ★★★★  “The Reaper has come. And he’s brought hell with him.”  For those of you unfamiliar with Red Rising, even though I might be the only one left at this point, in this world that takes place in our universe, starring a young man from Mars, everyone is subdivided into color categories based on their skill sets, income, hair color, and what last name they possess (information provided by the Red Rising Wiki page):➽  HighColors: • Golds - Rulers of society• Sil
Even though the ending was perfect, and I loved the beginning where we get to see the consequences of Golden Son's cliffhanger, like I said above, I was extremely bored during the middle of this book.
And even though I recognize the importance of that middle section, I still can't bring myself to give this five stars, even though that ending was everything I could ever wish for in a book and I simply cannot stop gushing or thinking about it.I also want to mention that I still hate Roque and I absolutely hated the way Darrow was impacted by his death.
So let him do his worst. I know how to suffer.I know the darkness.This is not how it ends.  You know those books where, even though you know it will be cemented into your favorites list until the end of time (the whole series, for that matter), words just don’t describe how you feel?? Like, no matter what you say, everything will seem like useless drivel that couldn’t possibly compare to what you felt while reading that novel?? Well…this is one of those books-One of those books where you have i
You know those books where, even though you know it will be cemented into your favorites list until the end of time (the whole series, for that matter), words just don’t describe how you feel??
I’m telling you, guys, and you can ask any one of my best friends on here-I read this book through thick and thin, night and day, at the cost of sleep, and with a perpetual migraine that I STILL don’t think has disappeared.
I'm going to try make sense of what I thought, wish me luck.Pierce Brown delivered the last book in timely fashion.
There's a part in the book where I had to stop reading just because my heart felt like it would leap out from my chest, it was that intense!
Well I can't comment about that, but I believe most of my questions were answered.Needless to say, I am bloodydamn excited to read more from this universe for Brown is also writing a spin-off trilogy about the Golds.
An inventive, fast-paced, gut-wrenching and emotional read, you're going to want this on your bookshelves book nerds!
Literally, this kept up until the final chapter!.If you've read the second book you know Darrow was captured and on his way to be dissected.
It really is amazing that in only three books Pierce Brown has been able to put together such a strong case of characters.The only bad thing I have to say about the series is that it's only three books long.
Iron Gold, the first book in a new series, is is due out next year and picks up where Morning Star left off.
We have a cover and an interview!http://shelf-life.ew.com/2015/01/22/pierce-brown-red-rising-golden-son-morning-star/?hootPostID=4835e5164a7409c2a40c06fff440d7b7Expected publication: Spring 2016...Fuck.
A día de hoy ha debido de ser una de las mejores decisiones de mi vida, porque me permitió conocer a ese gran escritor que es Pierce Brown, su inmensa jerarquía solar basada en colores y sus personajes profundamente matizados.Esta serie es verdadera ciencia ficción para adolescentes y no adolescentes.
Y quiere construir ese mundo mejor para ellos.Los Juegos del Hambre acababan con un mensaje horrible, con los rebeldes intentando reiniciar el ciclo del odio de los juegos y Katniss rompiéndolo malamente con más muerte y derramamiento de sangre.
Just like the previous books in the series it was the perfect blend of action, drama, romance, and shock happenings.
The story was dark and intense, but that was mitigated by the humor and the undercurrent of hope that ran through the series.
The story itself was intense and exciting and really dragged me through the emotional ringer from start to finish.
The story picks up straight after the dramatic ending to Golden Son and takes us on an intense ride as Darrow and the Sons of Ares move into a full scale rebellion against the oppressive Society.
I loved the story and think it had a satisfying ending.
3.75 stars
“Aren't you afraid you're going to break everything and not be able to put it back together?”I am particularly happy to be sharing this review with you, fellow readers, mainly because it means I have very successfully survived the thirty heart attacks Morning Star so kindly gave me, and secondly because this trilogy is now so dear to me, I am almost tempted to discourage you all from ever giving it even half a thought, so as to keep it to myself like the most precious treasure -and please don't feel obliged to look dismayed; if you have ever loved a book, you couldn't have possibly escaped this feeling.
OH. MY. FUCKING. GOD. WHY DIDN'T I READ THIS BOOK SOONER!? WHY PIERCE BROWN HAVE YOU KILLED ME ON THE INSIDE!?I don't think I'll ever be able to fucking review this series properly. I have been murdered on the inside by this man. Beautiful he may be, he is the  devil. RTC.... maybe never.
Pierce Brown proved himself in his previous books that he's a good writer and a new shining star of the industry.
But you'll find the man in the first book changing to someone bigger and more assertive in Golden Son. Morning Star, Darrow is changed by the hands of his enemies.
From the moment I've owned Morning Star, I always hope that the end of this book will be like Mockingjay.
(hide spoiler)] However, I want something darker like blood and gore for the ending of this series, but Brown gives me cakes and fireworks instead.
