https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7542032-danger-and-other-stories
It is a collection of short stories.As Arthur writes in the preface that ...The Title story of this volume was written about eighteen months before the outbreak of the war and was intended to direct public attention to the great danger which threatened their country.
"Danger"is beautifully written...
......when you see an aeroplane hovering a few hundreds feet above,like a hawk, ready to bomb you.Arthur has nicely written all such things and very technically as well.Though I did not find other stories interesting...
I would say,first story "Danger"could be read quickly and without any cost, as the book is freely available.
Un Arthur Conan Doyle diverso da quello canonicamente inteso, una raccolta di racconti mai scontati e soprattutto diversissimi l'uno dall'altro. È bello  scoprire  che c'e sempre qualcosa da  riscoprire  nei vecchi autori.
I'm particularly fond of this writer.
These are the first stories of Doyle's that I have read that do not include Sherlock Holmes.Danger!Being a Captain of a sub fleet John Sirius has quite a strategy.
He knows they cannot keep the food vessels out forever but has a strategy of keeping them out long enough to make food prices get to the point that is out of the reach of the citizens on the British Islands.
This story I thought was very interesting since the Lusitania had not been sunk yet and this story was in a unique way what would happen with the German subs sinking British ships.
was my favorite of the short stories.
The author of Sherlock Homes let me down. There is one, maybe two, good stories in this collection of short stories. The Danger! story should be read and pondered about what weaknesses a strong nation has and how we can be destroyed. The rest of the book can be ignored.For more of my thoughts, see my blog.
An obscure collection of short stories, written late in Doyle's life. They are highly variable in quality. Some are quite dull. I particularly liked "One Crowded Hour", "The Prisoner's Defence" and "The Three of Them."
Though I understand the significance of Doyle's war-time prediction, the story of "Danger!" is quite dull. I've never cared much for war stories- with the exception of Tim O'Brien- and I didn't care much for this one. History buffs should read this collection, but I am not among them.
Not that impressive barring a story or two. Chances are that you may put it down in between :-(
Very much a period piece ... interesting how Conan Doyle incorporated the Great War into his rather romantic short stories ... not a patch on the Sherlock Holmes canon by any means ...
