https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/453983.The_Sacred_Wood
There is much in these essays about the state of criticism, fuelled perhaps by optimism or hubris, the utility of the enterprise is something Eliot appears skeptical towards.
Eliot makes the curious remark that Marlowe's Jew of Malta need be understood as a farce otherwise the conclusion is incomprehensible.
Exhaling slowly I attempted to imagine what Eliot would've thought of Derrida himself.
Immature poets imitate; mature poets steal; bad poets deface what they take, and good poets make it into something better, or at least something different.I appreciate the innocence in these terms but I imagine they are equipped with a resilienceI am on holiday this week and it will be spent in part on criticism, following Nathan's lead as it is time for such.
His hyperventilating essay on Blake actually made me laugh; his presumption to understand a poet wholly indifferent to Eliot's own concerns, perhaps even hostile to Eliot's notions of poetry and what makes a poem "great." I might have to eat these words some day, but then words have been my steady diet for a long time, and re-cycling is a good thing, right?
I was a comp. lit concentrator, yet no one forced me to read this book? Something does not add up. P.S. you're all fired.
The essay is built around the idea that “… no man can invent a form, create a taste for it, and perfect it, too,” in order to explain the lack of a viable poetic drama today.I think Eliot was a man of his time, and at that time the serious/literary theatre was dominated by Ibsen’s, Chekhov, and Shaw’s naturalistic drawing-room dramas which, admittedly, do not lend themselves to a poetic telling.
(Nor does it make one a writer of poetic drama, as Mr. Eliot has shown.)If you like literary criticism, this is probably among the best and most entertaining.
Available at Gutenberg Canada. Eliot demonstrates his prose is as boring as his poetry.
The aim of the poet is to state a vision, and no vision of life can be complete which does not include the articulate formulation of life which human minds make...It is one of the greatest merits of Dante's poem that the vision is so nearly complete; it is evidence of this greatness that the significance of any single passage, of any of the passages that are selected as "poetry," is incomplete unless we ourselves apprehend the whole.And Dante helps us to provide a criticism of M.
There are numerous sarcastic phrases that authors have made about critics, two are “pigs at a pastry cart” or “eunuchs in a harem,” but most of them amount to “those who can do and those who cannot, critique.” Of course, this little volume on literary criticism was written by Thomas Stearns Eliot.
Indeed, the most recurring criticism that Eliot makes is that both poetic drama and certain poetry often lack emotion transformed into artistic form by infinite variation (“…the more perfect the artist, the more completely separate in him will be the man who suffers and the mind which creates; …” (p.
Eliot isn’t afraid to declare poets considered great or important to be mediocre, or at least lacking.
Originally published on my blog here in December 2001.The poetry of the past was extremely important to T.S. Eliot, and he wrote a fair amount of criticism.
(In the introduction to the second edition, he did say that some of his opinions had changed, without going into details about which, precisely.)Generally, what Eliot has to say is interesting if rather academic.
With the concentration of the essays in general on the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, though, it is the essays on Marlowe and Jonson which are the most illuminating.
"Marlowe's Mephistopheles is a simpler creature than Goethe's.
A creation of art should not do that : he should replace the philosophy.
Goethe has not, that is to say, sacrificed to consecrated his thought to make the drama ; the drama is still a means.
And this type of mixed art has been repeated by men incomparably smaller than Goethe.
...."Both philosophies [Shavian and Maeterlinckian, "idea" and "poetic":] are popularizations : the moment an idea has been transferred from its pure state in order that it may become comprehensible to the inferior intelligence it has lost contact with art.
I was preparing for my very first university lecture.
I heard my name called from the circulation desk and was taken into a locked room and the book was given to me.
I first read Sacred Wood in a locked room in a library because it was the personal edition of Northrop Frye, complete with his marginal notes of his thoughts on the text.
I prepared for my first lecture with Frye's sacred wood - greeted by the first work of theory I ever read: "Tradition and the Individual Talent".
This is the way to prepare for a lecture.
Eliot is widely credited with creating the term, objective correlative, which he uses first in this piece to discuss some of the shortcomings of Shakespeare’s Hamlet.
He defines objective correlative as: “…a set of objects, a situation, a chain of events which shall be the formula of that particular emotion; such that when the external facts, which must terminate in sensory experience, are given, the emotion is immediately evoked” (Eliot para.
Basically, Eliot poses that the emotion Hamlet experiences doesn’t come across in a believable way because it exceeds “the facts as they appear” (Ibid).
Everyone should read the essay "Hamlet and His Problems", which discusses the Objective Correlative, Eliot's preferred critical wedge to attack those poets whose literary moods surpass their ability to embody them in dramatic action. Oh wait, that describes most of Eliot's corpus quite succinctly.Perhaps, inadvertently, Eliot defines exactly that rare artistic accomplishment which ought to fail but does not, whose elan vital outperforms its plot and soil.Hate his conclusions if you like and label his arguments as hypercritical like me, but there's no ignoring the machinery of his rhetoric, which advances with all the grace and quickness of stealth tank.
Eliot accomplishes a few things with this, but foremost among the things that he accomplishes is forcefully reminding his reader that he is unbelievably erudite. Some of us didn't need convincing! Other than some interesting quips on isolated authors (interesting only to parties who know and care about those authors- Blake and Dante, for me) there is nothing in this book lost by only reading the central essay "Tradition and the Individual Talent." That, however, is important for anyone interested in literature.
This is a collection of Eliot's critisism. No one will ever accuse T.S. of being a page turner, and without a doubt he can be padantic and dull, but there is enough good things in this book to recommend reading. Now, you have to be as sharp as a library to understand the many literary references he makes, but if I takes the attitude of learning something new, then this is pretty good. Also a lot of good one liners.
I do know it's time now for me to read this dusty old hardback properly.I do like T S Eliot. He has moments of pinpointing a thought in words so clearly.And now, at this time in my life, I am very interested to hear what he thought about literature and criticism - long before Structuralism and the Marxists and the Feminists (to name but a few) arrived and interfered with everything that happens between a text and a reader -
1969, "Price net 21S: £1.05""Poetry is a superior amusement: I do not mean an amusement for superior people. I call it an amusement, an amusement pour distraire les honnêtes gens not because that is a true definition, but because if you call it anything else you are likely to call it something still more false." TSE
Some of the essays were quite insightful, others Eliot seemed to spend more time decrying the criticism of others and little on the work under review. Seem a bit dated too. No denying his erudition though...
While I admit that some of the concepts Eliot touches upon are outdated, his views on the role of the artist and critic are very apt and hold up over time. If you have to, focus on "The Perfect Critic" and "Hamlet and His Problems"
