https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28547.Dragonsinger
I won't go into depth as this is a book I've read several times since first encountering it as a teenager ages ago and there are literally hundreds of detailed reviews. One thing that inspires me about Dragonsinger, though, is that it doesn't follow the contemporary form of having everything go wrong for the main character all the way through until the end. In contrast, Menolly actually succeeds in almost every chapter--a victory for her shared with the reader--and yet somehow McCaffrey still made the drama feel genuine throughout.
This is the second book in the Harper Hall Trilogy and it follows Menolly as she comes to the Harper Hall to become and apprentice.I absolutely love this character.
She is so talented in music and as a song writer that it is such a shame.
As she comes to the Harper Hall, she is not accepted well by the other girls.
The harpers all see how talented she is.
This book takes you on her first week in the harper hall with all her troubles and new friendships and how she grows.
My favorite of the Harper Hall books! There's something so satisfying about Menolly, who went through hell in the first book, being treated like a princess, and shown around the Harper Hall. Getting new clothes, meeting new friends, finding out that her scarred hand will heal . . . just so satisfying!
Dragonsinger is very much one of those books that, while on the surface about music--Menolly, the protagonist, is a young musician who's just gotten the chance to train professionally, essentially, after earlier being told she had no right to play at all--is really about pursuing any art.Dragonsinger falls a bit more strongly toward believing that artists are somehow a little different than others, something I'm not convinced of.
So when she also claims her music isn't very good, and keeps pointing to all the things she needs to learn--in earlier readings I thought it unwarranted modesty, a lack of acceptance of her own skill.But this reading, I think I get it more: Menolly isn't modest because she fails to accept her own skill.
This is a continuation of the previous book Drangonsong, and on this re-read I read them sequentially, though when I first discovered these books I did not have that luxury.
Though it helps to have read Drangonsong first, McCaffrey comes from the generation of authors where you did NOT publish a book that could not stand on its own (a talent that as a society, we seem to have, MOST regrettably, lost), so it is quite possible to read this book as a standalone.Menolly has been brought to the Harper Hold, her ability with her nine fire-lizards brought her to the attention of The Master Harper and then he discovered she was the 'lost' apprentice from her hold, who had written those amazing songs that everyone wants more of.The child prodigy is an eternal prototype in fiction, here McCaffrey shows everyone how to do it best: Menolly has to overcome her background to allow herself to mature, fit in, learn and take her proper place in the Harper Hold.
Another enthralling science fiction work from the late, great Anne McCaffrey.
Sure, there was plenty of good fantasy to read if you knew where to look, but for most of the general populace, awareness of fantasy was limited to The Lord of the Rings, which had been published twenty years earlier.
That’s really what the story arc in the book is: it’s very internal, and not a lot happens externally in the book, which takes place over the course of one week (though I did cheer when (view spoiler)[Menolly hauled off and clocked the Lord Holder’s son after everyone was a jerk to her (hide spoiler)]).
Following this very nice story, our dear Menolly is in the best place to fulfill her dream of becoming a musician.
In this music school she meets all the people who can help her to show off her talent but also others who are putting obstacles and competing her.
In this world full of opportunities and challenges, she is having difficulties to adapt, but with the help of her little wingers friends have all the resources to succeed while discovering that what she can offer is not just music.All this in a book that may not have the emotional intensity of the previous one - although the touching moments are not missing - but it is interesting, as it deepens even more the character of Menolly and in the Pern society.
Loved this series! Read it as a teenager and was sad to see the author was gaining in years. Eagerly awaited each of her books and read them in one sitting as often as I could. I have read these books countless times and own all except one that I can't find anymore (will check on line). Anne McCaffrey is amazing and a gift to readers. What a drag she is done writing!!!!
Menolly's story continues and the books continue to be enjoyable. Not great literature, but nice.
I would strongly discourage my daughters from reading this because it encourages a certain kind of female I can't stand: the girl who doesn't get along with other girls (to whom I always want to say "The other girls don't hate you because you're 'special', they hate you because you're insufferable.") The tolerable, even interesting Menolly from the first book (which I gave 4 stars, by the way) disappears into a freaking Mary-Sue, oh so talented, yet so modest, championed by the "good" guys but loathed by the "bad" guys.
This book rocked my world in 8th grade. Plus, dragons!
McCaffery is of course musical (she was an opera producer before taking up writing), and music plays an important part in a fair number of her novels (the Crystal Singer series and The Ship Who Sang as well as several of the Pern series).Dragonsinger follows on immediately from Dragonsong, which tells of the early history of Menolly, whose musical nature is despised as impractical by her family.
This helps her form relationships with some people, but brings jealous resentment from others.The secret of the way in which Anne McCaffrey writes about music is that she doesn't try too hard.
I adored the new setting and characters in this book. The ending truly hit me in a personal way and moved me. I will not forget Menolly and her struggles for some time yet.
I don't particularly enjoy children's or young adult books, and I didn't approve of the adolescent turn with the Harper Hall series.
McCaffrey takes us along to Harper Hall with a 15-year old's viewpoint and all the anxieties, self-doubt, and worldviews that would have come with one with such a sheltered childhood.
McCaffrey offers the reader 15-year old girl's view of how adults negotiate this transition; and this was a treasure.I was also impressed with this as a work intended to empower women.
It is unfortunate, however, that it is the 4th book in the overarching Pern series and the 2nd in the Harper Hall series.
In Dragonsigner Book two of the Harper Hall trilogy, Menolly finally comes to the Harper Hall and here begins her new life, but not without serious growing pains.
Her possession of nine fire lizards doesn't make her popular with some in the hall and like most novels of this type, Menolly finds herself dealing with the "mean girl" contingent of Pern.
She makes friends with the irrepressible Piemur and begins a lifelong platonic love with Masterharper Robinton.

This is one of those books that would have been too short practically no matter how long it was.
Usually when books have lyrics or poems as introductions to chapters I just skip them, but here they seem an integral part of the book :)It's a shame no more books have been written about Menolly's life at Harper Hall.
I was so disappointed with Dragondrums, because I wanted to read more about Menolly - not Piemur.Love this book - just wish it was longer.Reread in 2016: No matter how often I read this book, it's just not long enough!
Another great book in this series Menolly stands up to the bullies in Harper Hall while making friends for the first time in her life. The fire lizards are growing and starting to become useful in all sorts of unexpected ways.
Live for my livingOr else I must dieDon't leave me alone.A world heard that cry.Loved this whole mini-series! I'm a fan of the whole Pern world created by Anne McCaffrey, but adding in a focus on music was a huge bonus for me.
Oh, Menolly, why didn't I know you when I was a teenager? Another book to add to the list of books I wish I'd read when I was younger, but I'm glad I discovered eventually.
As evidenced by the fact that I've finished rereading two of them today.
Even after my 15th reread (this one through audiobook) I still love the hell out of the first two books in this series.
Which, quite frankly, is a lot better than a main character who flaunts their talent everywhere, so I didn't really mind this.There isn't much that happens.
It's more of a view into Menolly's new life than any soaring plot, which is fine for me, since I like those kinds of books once in a while.
But, okay, it's a very light read, there's very little plot, the main character is pretty much a Mary Sue, the only 'antagonists' are a group of girls who are jealous of Menolly, but I like it anyway.
Oh, I love this one, too.
Anne “I love the logistics of worldbuilding” McCaffrey supplies that in spades and it makes me super happy.
Again with the gender roles and “we’ve never had a GIRL do this before.” In contrast to the outright abuse in Dragonsong, here we have a sneakier kind of misogyny, where the less enlightened masters get cranky about having to teach Menolly, especially when she does well.
I think it's fair to say that Menolly does start to look a little too perfect: she's good at nearly everything, she has an unreasonable number of fire lizards, and her character flaw is low self-confidence.
That's the story of how Menolly gets to the Harper Hall, while this is the story of how she finds her place there and sets herself up for the future we will see, if as a side character, in later books.On this reread, I find myself thinking that Dragonsong is a stronger book.
I hope, even as the years continue to go by, that there will always be a place for them with younger readers, not just the old ones like me that first read these books when they were young.
It's my go-to book whenever I don't have anything to read.
And tiny dragons.
And riding dragons.
And dragon riders.
Dragons.
Dragons.
Seeing as I play four instruments, I was delighted to read a book with a heroine that loves playing music like I do.
Another thing I liked (even though I thought I wouldn't) is that there is no love story.
Normally, my opinion is that a little romance enhances a book, as long as it's done right.
Anne's style of writing is so engaging yet different, which I love.
I recommend this book/series to anyone who likes fantasy!
4.5 stars.
It's good to go straight into it from the last as it keeps the pace and the involvement.AM is very good at starting books that are immersed in a storyline but she gives just the right sort of info to get you back on track or remind you from previous books.
You get the sense that she's growing in strength as she starts to face her problems head on where the last book had her running away a bit.It also ends on a lovely upbeat point where you get the sense that the sky is the limit!On to Piemur's story in the third Harper Hall book!
Modestly beguilingWhereas the first book in the Harper Hall Trilogy sped along with an urgency in telling the heartfelt tale of Menolly’s early struggles to find her way, this book meandered along with a fairly thin plot. There were definitely some modestly beguiling moments throughout, especially involving Menolly’s friendships and training, but it could have used more of a spine of a high-stakes story.
