https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1878.The_History_of_Sexuality_Volume_2
ثانياً: كان في تكون الفكر اليوناني بحد ذاته، فهو فكر صفوة بجدارة، حيث يتحدث فيه أفلاطون عن مدينة فاضلة لمواطنين زكور بالدرجة الأولة و أحرار، فهم بذلك يخرص باقي الأصوات بكل بساطة بمن فيهم من أطفال و عبيد و شيوخ، و على رئسهم صوت المرأة التي تعامل كتبعية و ملكية بحت، حيث أن الفكر الأثيني يدو على دولاب السلطة السياسية و الإقتصادية المولاة لهذه الصفوة.ثالثاً؛ لوهلة بدت لي الأفكار اليونانية فيها الكثير من الإطناب المثالي عن "ما يجب أن يكون عليه" السلوك و الجنسي الذي تحول شيء فشيء بالنسبة لهم لمادة أخلاقية يقاس بها إعتدال و أهلية الفرد من بينهم.
Foucault's continuation of his impressive History of Human Sexuality looks into the sexual mores and practices of the Ancient Greeks, and attempts to understand the development of sexuality as a moral problematic. Contrary to the conventional wisdom which posits a complete epistemic reversal from the Hellenic world to the Christian world, Foucault poses a more complex network of interconnections between the two paradigms, which lie in a valuation of asceticism. Although The Use of Pleasure is only a small piece of a very large story, it is an interesting development in the hermeneutics of sexuality.
Três políticas de temperança trata de tanto homem quanto a mulher eram pautados na política da temperança, a mulher de uma forma que ficasse submissa e o homem numa posição de dominação.No capítulo quatro, Erotica, na parte Uma Relação Problemática Foucault delineia os trâmites das relações homossexuais na Grécia antiga, de como não havia nenhum problema moral em relacionar-se com adolescentes, ao mesmo tempo em que estes crescidos deviam naturalmente deixar a sua passividade de lado.
After reading Discipline and Punish: The Birth of the Prison along with these works on sexuality, one gets a better sense of how his primary theoretical interest in power, discourse, and subjectivity work together and form an integrated whole.
Foucault starts Vol. 2 by laying out the "correlation between fields of knowledge, types of normativity, and forms of subjectivity" regarding sexuality in ancient Greek culture (p.
The relations between free men and women or slaves are less a subject of discourse because the relationships here are assumed to be common knowledge and in little need of moral problematization.
En Historia de la sexualidad II, Foucault continúa el proyecto investigador sobre la sexualidad, sólo que esta vez se centra en cómo la actividad sexual fue problematizada por los filósofos y médicos de la Antigua Grecia, para quienes no interesaba tanto el objeto de la actividad, sino los modos y convenciones que giraban alrededor de dicha práctica.
En términos de lectura es un libro con una escritura menos pedregosa que el primer volumen, por lo que se hace más fácil de seguir; pero no por ello es menos complejo en torno a las temáticas que presenta.
De hecho, me atrevería a decir que multiplica las complejidades en torno a las mismas, lo que me parece sencillamente estupendo.
مجنون هذا الفوكو بهذا الجزء يطرح فوكو الكثير من الأفكار لدى الاثنيين القدماء وفلسفاتهم ويناقشها ويحل
Has some important insights, but Foucault's over-reliance on Attic prose substantially weakens his arguments - note that he doesn't even mention Sappho! And he quotes from the tragedians maybe twice? There are many classicists of the past few decades who have done much better work on ancient Greek sexuality. Foucault is more interested in making a point about the world that he lived in than in actually understanding the way the Greeks lived.
Whatever notions of what we would now call sexuality were mixed together with other bodily desires, such as eating and drinking (named the Aphrodisia) created to sustain a principle of an ''ethical subject'', which, simply put, means that there needed to be a system of rules so you could see how noble of a being you actually were.
Because sex was so vital and dangerous (you can't tap your brain for babies forever, you'd suppose), proper care was taken to ensure that the circumstances were just right to create the right baby at the right time.
Os gregos levavam a mal, sobretudo, que um homem (a moral era sempre uma moral dos homens, feita na perspectiva masculina) mostrasse falta de domínio.
Era bem visto ter uma relação com um rapaz mais novo, por se estar numa posição de domínio, e isso não implicava nenhuma perda de virilidade.
Precisamente por isso, há conselhos extensos, nos textos morais, sobre como se deve comportar um rapaz, que entra numa relação com um homem mais velho, não sendo demasiado fácil, para não estragar a sua reputação.
Não são condenados os actos em si, como imorais, mas o caracter do homem que se coloca numa ou noutra posição.
He turns his attentions to the Greeks, arguing that they viewed sexuality more in terms of dietetic regimen, one to be conformed with for maximum health.
Now, I enjoyed the examples given but -- and this shouldn’t be a surprise given Foucault's rather androcentric view of sex -- he seems to leave female desire almost completely out of the equation.
One could argue that the heavily patriarchal nature of Greek society made this an inevitability in terms of the available sources, but that's no excuse for a researcher of Foucault's caliber.
This book contains interesting reflections on how subjectivity was formed in ancient Greek culture around (sexual) pleasure as a result of relations men had with oneself in terms of moderation, selfmastery, selfstylization and domination.
As such, Foucault shows, the Greeks developed an ethics of the self through selfcare.A criticical note: the book contains alot of redundancy and repetition, which usually isn't the case with Foucault.What further strikes me is that Foucault doesn't give women a voice in his book, while a history of female (sexual) pleasure can also certainly be written, or at least be given a place in a book such as this.
This book broke the spell of Foucault for me. In works like   he wove a net from works that were unknown to me. Who was I to question his readings?Here I finally saw him at work on an author and text I knew, and when I looked at what he did with Xenophon, I found his reading of the Oeconomicus was bizarre and tendentious. Fully escaping from Foucault would take me until   but this was the start.
It does indeed seem to be the case that many of the ancient Greeks and Romans were oblivious to what we see as the ethical issues pertaining to human sexuality.
Of course, given our limited sources, it is difficult to generalize with a high degree of certainty.
What we have was written by elites and filtered through elites over centuries when women were regarded as inferior, adulthood started earlier, marriages were frequently arranged and various forms of slavery (often including a sexual component) were taken for granted.
Yet within this milieu existed Judaism and arose Christianity, both of which did promulgate ethics of sexuality.
A meditation on the problematization of desire in Ancient Greece. Foucault presents the era's ethics of pleasure in stark contrast to the hermeneutics of desire that emerged with early Christian doctrine.
In this book Foucault shows how Ancient Greek sexual norms were technologies of the self, exercices to create oneself as a free, healthy and happy subject, and not laws or proibitions.
فيه تقدم, بالنسبة لي.
Anybody have opinions on whether I should read these in order? Because I kinda want to read the one about the Greeks asap.
While I really loved Volume 1, Volume 2 was exceedingly repetitive. I lost count of the number of times that I had to double-check that I hadn't inadvertently skipped back four or five pages.
By tying truth to an aesthetics of existence rooted in “formal principles in the use of pleasures, in the way one distributed them, in the limits one observed, in the hierarchy one respected” (89), Michel suggests that moderating one’s sexuality helped one become a better citizen.Equally powerful are the final two parts of the book, which handle how sex and love played out in relationships between older men and adolescent boys.
While initially suggesting there were passive/active and submissive/dominant relations between boys and men, Michel, again via Platonic discourse, concludes that the boys eventually became the “masters” of these relations because they first knew true love, which was fostered not through sexual pleasure but rather through an alternative pleasure cultivated by knowing one’s partner was satisfied.
The subtitle should have been "The Use of Pleasure in Ancient Greece" or "Same-sex Sexuality in Ancient Greece" or something along those lines.If Foucault had set a broader scope -- let alone settle with modern, and less-obfuscating terminology -- he would have summarily concluded the following:"It is important to emphasize that people who engage in same-sex sexual practices do not necessarily have a homosexual orientation.
Similar Faces of Same-Sex Sexual Behavior..., Journal of Homosexuality Vol. 55, Issue 4Apparently, in Ancient Greece, pederasty had symbolic significance in that it was also partially about an issue of seniority or power-relations between the 'penetrator' and 'penetratee'.
Personally though, the practice pederasty simply has no place in modern society -- although the book does discuss other things as well..
This is one of the last works he wrote before he passed away, so at times it does end up feeling rushed and the writing could be more 'refined.' But it's brilliant, the ideas are fascinating.I do add the proviso that it may not make much sense if you haven't read anything on Greek sexual ethics.
However, it is worth while to read some of these works and follow up with this work.It's just fantastic and very empowering in how one can self-constitute themselves as an ethical/moral agent.
Worth reading.
A fine short survey of classical Greek sexual thinking, yet Michel Foucault's work with these primary sources isn't as impressive as it is with materials from the 17th and 18th centuries. A heavy reliance on two major 1970s-era histories by KJ Dover seems to suggest that Foucault isn't so much breaking new ground as sowing seeds in already-fertilized fields. All in all, though, this was a worthwhile and interesting read, even if it wasn't as provocative as Volume 1.
I met this guy at a party who wanted to do nothing but talk about Foucault (I didn't like him very much). HIS opinion was that Foucault was awful. I wouldn't say awful, but he is not easy to read. If I met Foucault at a party, I would probably like him as much as I did that guy who insulted him. But he wrote about interesting things.No rating because I skipped about half the book. Oops!
يعطيك هذا الكتاب فكره عن مدى مرونة ومطاطية كل شئ متعلق بالنفس البشريهبداية من الاخلاقيات ونهاية الى الاذواق والتابوهات المجتمعيهويتجلى هذا واضحا في توجيه الكاتب نظره تحليليهلبعض النصوص المتعلقه بالجنسانيه في المجتمع اليوناني القديم بشكل خاص
A short, straightforward work that analyzes the relation of sexuality to social power. Worth reading not only for the good clear writing, but also for Foucault's original take on sexuality as an object of knowledge.
Again, not one of my favorite topics that Foucault wrote about or critiqued.
He spins off structuring distinctions that he then applies to the unfolding of the whole project.
(The benefit of this plodding style is that it is an uncharacteristically breezy read by Foucault’s standards.)If you are interested in this topic, I strongly recommend reading it alongside Martha Nussbaum’s essay in The Sleep of Reason.
Here the forms of Christian morality take shape at least in outline.
But Foucault is amazingly sensitive in his treatment, electing not to draw direct lines and instead to focus on contrasting wider shapes between Christian and Greek: moral law vs.
ethics as a mode of stylization of the self, hermeneutics (knowledge) of desires vs.
the drama of self-mastery and pleasure, other-oriented vs.
self-oriented morality.
Un minucioso e imprescindible estudio de la “aphrodisia” griega; del uso de los placeres y la problematización respecto al sexo de la tradición de Isócrates, Jenofonte e Hipócrates.Por otro lado, un justo detenimiento de reflexión ontológica del amor y su relación con la verdad, que tiene como inauguración el diálogo platónico.
Foucault offers a history of sexuality in Greece, sketching an ethic of sexuality and repression that predates the usual dating of repression starting with Christian theology. He offers explorations of homosexuality and bisexuality in Ancient Greece, as well as issues of eroticism and marital fidelity. An interesting read, though less heavy on theory and critique than volume one.
Buen y conciso acercamiento a la moral griega del uso de los placeres. Util para indagar de donde viene la moral cristiana y que tan arraigada se encuentra en las ideas griegas de "sabiduria" y "dominio de sí". Lo recomiendo ampliamente.
