https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/344676.The_Financial_Expert
Lovely book.Review tomorrow.
Great climax with a Ponzi scheme going awry.
A very good story set during the late 1930's and into the 1940's.
Another of R.K. Narayan's tales set in his fictional town of Malgudi, India.
Through Narayan's wonderful witty prose, we get to know Margayya, the "financial expert", his family and all of their many problems.
Malgudi is a very ordinary town filled with ordinary people.
This is a story about his search for wealth and the effect it has on him, his family and his friends.
Good story telling.
In the end, (view spoiler)[Margayya perfected the Ponzi scheme, for a while anyway, but didn't trust any banks!
(hide spoiler)]
Coming to the story, it tells us about the time in British India when they established community banks to encourage a habit of thrift and to create a system of orderly loans.
They did this specially to empower the poor people(which was majority of the population that time)who were constantly in debt to loan sharks.
They also had stacks of the various forms people had to fill out for loans or other bank dealings.
They often preferred to encourage their clients to just forget about the banks and all their forms and bureaucracy and to deal with the them, the financial advisors, who would lend money without much paper work.
First thought - this book is made to be read in English.
All the battle between the internal hesitations, very human feelings and the need of being accepted by the people around who have literaly nothing to do with you.
People are the same everywhere.One thing which made me really laugh is the passage of the "philosopher"-personage who speaks about English language problem in India.
He was very mad about the fact that you need to write/speak in English to be read/heard in all reagions.
Well the paradox is that this book itself is written in English.
بین کاسب کارها هم مثل سیاست مداران بیشترین ترس آن است که به چیزی متعهد شوند
I am not quite sure why I am rating this book 3 because I enjoyed the book immensely.
Maybe, having just read a few of Narayan's novels by now, I yearn perhaps for a bolder stroke.
I know that is wishful thinking - Narayan wrote very well on what was most familiar to him.
The book made me chuckle in a few places, and as always, if you are keen enough, you can observe the darker, philosophical overtones that mark his writing.
Just that I don't know where to place it among all his other works.
Instead, the classic or, lets say, the true writers are those who leave their own remarkable tastes in your mouth, their style is unique and you will find the flavour returning to you in one way or the other.Some might find the book a little slow or boring, it is not a fast paced page turner, but if you want a peep into the society, you have to grow with it, like the silent fungi, you shouldn't expect a racy thriller here.
It is, in fact, a real unwinding of how scams work in rural settings, how gullible the masses are, how money tempts each person in its own way, how efficient are scammers and money bunglers with their financial management.
This is a witty and luminous novel set in the backward town of Malgudi in southern India.
Throughout the novel the reader is introduced to several characters that may seem to play only a minor role, but in fact, are highly developed—almost without the reader being aware of it.
Certainly, the main character, Margayya, is highly developed and the reader is given many insights into his motivations and thoughts.
The reader is treated to his travails with the residents of Malgudi and his difficulties within his own family.
K. Narayan is grand and with it he enthralled this reader.
If one has to know about typical Indian sensibilities one should simply read RK Narayan books.
For an Indian, reading through the pages is like himself enacting the story- as at the some point either we have seen this happening or have been a part of it.
RK Narayan delves into the Indian common man psyche and presents his story.
The plot which shows the entire life of the Financial expert- his ups and downs leaves you with a kindof pleasant feeling- a feeling of a story well said.
Another best part of Narayan writing is like his protagonists, the books are for the common man.
But It beat crap out of my course books at being dull.The story drags without much happening and then suddenly it ends with as much logic as it started.
Finish this crap or else no breakfast for you".
So at the end, he gives up and realizes that happiness has nothing to do with wealth.The only character I liked in the book is his son and he very rightly stays away from the vapid story line for most of the time.
Something more about him could have given the book much needed taste.
Narayan belongs with  Dostoevsky and  Chekhov as writers who at once capture both the intimate peculiarities of their fellow countrymen and the common ordinariness of all human lives. Here he returns again to fictional Malgudi, with a tale of a money lender and his son that might be called ‘The Prodigal Father’. Narayan’s sly yet gentle irony and his elliptical dialogue are both put to superb use.
Another masterpiece from R.K.Narayan. As always, the author creates a fantastic movie in the reader's mind and keeps the reader lively and blissful. Many who have given bad rating to this book have to understand the Indian society and living around 50 years back. Margayya is a wonderful character creation. The book will not let you stop reading it until you complete it. Simple and very detail book!
Charming little book, more like a 245 page short story in its minimalist compactness. Larry Flynt meets Bernie Madoff in India. Only problem is in the last few pages, where Narayan can't seem to get the plane of denouement off the long runway and into the air.
Review: http://literaryretreat.com/2018/02/21...
The author R.K. Narayan has created a funny character in this book. Overall a decent read.
A typical RK Narayan story, of the struggle in the life of a common man almost a hundred years ago. The story buildup and ending always has been the catchy part of his books. Good read.
One of the very first books on Business and finance coming out of India.
The core money principles in this book have been talked about by western rich, successful men in their own books that came far AFTER the Financial Expert.
He was WAY ahead of his time and The Financial Expert is crown jewel among all his books and generally also I feel among the best finance, business books coming out of India even to date!
Another tale from hinterlands of Malgudi (Indian Gotham sans superhero) - the tale is the simplistic trademark of R.K.Narayanan. It feels strange that even after a century - banking and relations have not grown much - just the means have. A self-made man, his idle life-partner, a friend turns foe and a wasted child. (Jist) But, The story is not in the plot but the expression. The truth about relationships settles like dew drops in the crisp, heated sentences of reality. Magayya ends up another villainous - hero.
R.K.Narayan is again a breezy delight to read. I would essentially classify this as story of knowledge vs wealth i.e Goddess Lakshmi vs Goddess Saraswathi as mentioned in the book. The story of a father blessed by Lakshmi but his son cursed by Saraswathi. The plot is not outstanding but what shines through is Narayan's grasp of Indian day to day lives and characters and events. And his characteristic humour of course.
RK Narayan has a knack for subtlely blending humor even in the gravest situations. Margaya is a remarkable character who seems predictable but surprises us now and then. The fine detailing of the characters and the scenes paint a vivid picture of the Venkata Mudali street. Each character has a distinct voice. The language is lucid and so is the storyline structure. It was worth reading.
There were some great descriptions of Indian life, the smells and sights, but all in all, I just couldn't get into this. I found the story dragged and I couldn't relate to the characters; Even thought the story was all about money, I had the feeling there was something I was missing ... I won't rush out to buy another one of Narayan's books.
It happens in the case of very few stories, that you don't feel miserable or neglected as the story concludes and we clearly start seeing even the micro connections in the work. And this adds a new dimension to our perception. R.K.Narayan's The Finanial Expert is a perfect example.
This book portrays the life of a small town financier and associated characters with authenticity, sympathy and humour. I really enjoyed reading this book.
A simplistic take on life in a time gone by but with the same trials and tribulations of everyday life. Worth it for the character arcs and the very Indian setting.
Very nice children's book and gives an insight to the ways of the olden days in villages. A good read on financial fiction
Simple story; simple language. But great fiction.
Brilliant, you should always remember where you started.
This is almost a 4.
His novels and stories were set in the fictional community of Malgudi, a “typical” large town somewhere in southern India, which allowed him to invent geography as needed and avoid lawsuits when he used real-life incidents as the basis for the story.In this case, Margayya is a composite of two real-life people, one an actual middleman who performed the services Margayya does at the beginning of the novel, and a high-flying financial wizard who was incredibly rich for a short time before crashing and landing in jail for his shady practices.In the story, Margayya makes a fervent appeal to Lakshmi, goddess of Fortune, and in the process happens to run into a writer named Dr. Pal.
