https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/815176.Created_the_Destroyer
However I did enjoy them at the time...no apologizes here I also like double cheeseburgers, french fries and chocolate malts...not to mention the occasional beer.Oh, and Coca-Cola, I love Coca-Cola...my one true addiction.Of late my attention has been drawn back to these old treasures of violent yet simplistic action by a younger friend here on Goodreads who has discovered them (thank you Frankie).These books (and here we're talking about The Destroyer) were largely a reaction to a sharp rise in the crime rate.
Remo is quickly trained by Chiun, elderly Korean master of the martial art Sinanju, and is sent after a lead named Maxwell who appears to be running crime in New York City.A weird yet fun action-adventure, Remo's origin, training, and first mission are described in a very matter-of-fact manner, as though it's obvious that what Remo is doing will save the country.
(view spoiler)[It's revealed to Remo at the end that CURE had him sent to death row in the first place in order to have him become someone who doesn't officially exist.
(I haven't read an Executioner or Mack Bolan title in about 20 years.) The concept here is that the government is tired of being tied by the rules as they try to get the bad guys.
So they create an organization called CURE, which really doesn't exist, to fight the bad guys without all those annoying rules.
They have a Dr. Smith, and hire the world's best assasin, Chiun, from the House of Sinanju in Korea.
Then they frame a NYC cop for murder, execute him, ressurect him as the Destroyer and turn him and Chiun loose on the baddies.
Sapir was a political columnist, I think & it shows in the tongue in cheek plots which make fun of everything, but especially pick on one current event or attitude per book.
Led by Dr. Smith, an acerbic New Englander & trained by Chiun, a Korean who is the world's best assassin, Remo Williams, the Destroyer & second best assassin in the world, goes around fixing problems that would otherwise topple the US or possibly the world.Remo constantly gets into trouble since he has been trained in 'Sinanju', the 'sun source' of all martial arts.
In the early seventies as Bruce Lee, Chuck Norris and a variety of martial arts schools and styles were emerging in popular culture, The Destroyer arose as a satire or perhaps evolution of pulp novels by combining the excessive violence and gunplay of book serials like the Executioner and merging it with the philosophy of Oriental fighting.In this first novel Remo's teacher Chuin had not yet rose prominantly as a lead character, figuring in rather exactly as Yoda does ten year later in the Empire Strikes Back- a teacher more of wisdom than power who only plays as a mid-story turning point for the protagonist.
Hence this book lacks much of the fun interpersonal play that helps the Destroyer series to stand out (and provided the only good bits from the movie adaptation).
Read this thirty years ago and then again last week. Awesome! Violent, silly and perfect escapism.
I really enjoyed this first one in the series. Made me want to read more.
Why didn't I understand the purpose of this book??????Am I just so dumb?
This was a lot of fun.
And with becoming an agent, also come missions and his first mission that features in Created the Destroyer is to hunt and take down Maxwell but whether this is a person or a much larger something like a shadowing organization remains to be seen.
The action of Created, The Destroyer is very cool and intense and exactly something that you want to see featured in a crime book.
When I read the first few pages I was hooked, the scene with the electric chairs was pretty cool, but as soon as Remo was concripted into CURE it felt like the writing style suffered a bit in a sluggish way that tended to put a drag on several dialogues.
It was blissful.I'll give this book (...and #2-#5) 2/5 stars because I'm torn between the story and the formatting of the eBooks for my Nook.
So, if you're thinking of getting a printed book...5 out of 5 stars!I know Warren Murphy and his sons have started a publishing company...but they don't seem to know how to properly format an eBook.
That, or they need to have Remo eliminate their programmer.Mr. Murphy--show me you care about your readers enough to provide quality for the money we, as readers, are willing to spend for your eBooks, and you can have 5/5 stars...and my help in promoting you to everyone I know.Not until then.

This book has been in my top ten favorites since 1978 or 79 when I first read it. I own the first 120 or so in the series. Yeah, it's a long one. But they are generally a fun read. It's all about Remo and Chiun, baby!!
I've grown up reading the Destroyer series, which I discovered through my father. I have enjoyed every single books in the series, and still go back to reread them all of the time. Also, Remo Williams, the Adventure begins, has always been one of my favorite movies!
This is such a fun short story book series. I usually find them at powells for 2-3 bucks. Action, adventure, hilarity.
(Remo au fur et à mesure de la série deviendra un quasi super héros.) Chiun sera par la suite le moteur comique de la série avec des ressorts comme la détestation absolue de la culture américaine tout en étant accro aux Soaps Opéra, par exemple.Mais j'ai surtout été déçu par la platitude de ce premier volet, son côté roman d'espionnage raté, ses méchants qui ne font pas peur du tout, ses scènes d'actions peu convaincantes.Sa misogynie revendiquée ("les femmes sont comme les vaches : elles sentent venir la pluie et le danger") pourra surprendre, mais il ne faut pas s'y arrêter, la série étant très provocatrice, très satirique, c'est du second degré pour l'essentiel.
A nice, easy pulp action novel.
I read a handful of these back in the 80's and i remember liking them.
I also found a few Executioner novels too and i do plan to read some of them soon.
But for this book i enjoyed it.
Not the best but not the worst.
It has a very strong feel of the pulp novels of the time.
You have to read a pulp novel to understand.
But anyway i enjoyed it.
It's not my favorite but it's not the worst.
I might read the next one in the series.I give it a 7/10
I have enjoyed all of these books immensely. They are quick reads, often hilarious yet touching to see the characters develop as more than student/master.
I gave this book 5 stars but that rating is really more for the series than the first book itself.
The Destroyer is urban fantasy before it was a genre and my all time favorite series.
Even sadder was the gradual descent by series co-creator and main force behind the books Warren Murphy into racism, homophobia and the kind of political zealotry that he so perfectly mocked in the previous decades.In the last couple years attempts to relaunch and produce a spin off series have been made but I have avoided the temptation to read these.
However I fear that too much damage has been done to the reputation of this series for anyone whose views are not in lock step with Mr. Murphy to ever make an attempt.
Remo has been my hero since I read my first Destroyer book in 1980.
An old cranky, but warm hearted martial arts teacher tries to bring life and enlightenment to the epitome of modern day American social detachment.
His partner Remo revolted to the classical eastern philosophy, and in the end they were a team created to save the word one soap opera at a time.We all knew the books were written around Remo, but we all longed to see what mischief Chiun could stir into the pot of political incorrectness.
Was this first title great?
No, but it did lay a foundation to a series numbering 145 titles.
One of the big men's adventure series from the 70's than ran an impressive 145 books. The series while an adventure/action story is also full of satire toward much of the mainstream fads and icons of the time. An interesting main character and the sarcastic mentor makes this a funny action/adventure read. Great starter book to the series. The character and story have a very Pulp era feel to them. Nice Read, Very recommended
Great readI first fell in love with the Destroyer books many years ago. My junior high library had a bunch, but not all of them. It is awesome to see them back in print as e-books.It's also nice to find that I still love the stories. So many things you like as a child are disappointing when you revisit them as an adult. Not so with the Destroyer. I find myself just as fascinated with Remo, Chiun and Sinanju as the day I first picked up one of the stories.
Read this years ago. Still great now.love this series featuring Remo Williams a cop framed for murder and bumped off in the electric chair.Resurrected as a secret government killing machine!Trained by an aged Oriental in the secret arts of death and destruction.Remo takes on the enemies of America that normal laws cannot touch.Full of violence and dark humour.Excellent stuff.
The beginning of a series of books that were meant to be a satire of the Executioner and other men's adventurer series that were popular in the seventies. I read the first one hundred of them, but have only been sporatic since then. After Richard Sapir passed away, Warren Murphy wrote them alone for a while. Then several other people "wrote with" him.
A free Amazon Kindle book I downloaded in order to find out who Remo Williams is (see comment on John D. McDonald's _One Fearful Yellow Eye_ by my non-sexist friend Tom).* * * * *Well, it wasn't so bad that I couldn't finish it, but not good enough to convince me to ever read another Remo Williams book. . . .
Very good. A lot of the staple elements, like Sinaju, aren't present in this first book, but the core of Remo, CURE, and the series are. An excellent start to an excellent series.Kindle version 1.0.
Great Series. Lots of wit and humor between the two protagonist characters. The first book is ok but the rest are just good fun.
An excellent book.
Here begins the genre of modern knight errant adventure fiction.
What I lovingly call my chiun books. A fun series to read. Thanks to the guys at Bobos Arcade, for turning me on to this series.
