https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11764.End_Zone
Everything seemed at once to possess a pure obviousness and explode at the same time.
Many times before.
'White Noise' and 'Underworld' both hinted at, promised some grand apotheosis about life or the world.'End Zone' is about language and war and men and death.
DeLillo wants to play linguistic games at Logos College.
He wants to push language across the field.
He wants blood in the syntax and grass in the prose.
He wants his gladiators speaking prose poems, taking courses in "the untellable", discussing Wittgenstein, or screaming in German.
DeLillo wants a university separated from the world.
He wants to explore the chants of men.
The only two Delillo novels I hadn’t read were this and Americana, his first and I’m determined to complete the set.
“The pattern match begins with a search for a substring of a given string that has a specified structure in the string manipulation language” It’s essentially a novel about power.
War was the final test, the great experience, the privilege, the honour, the self-sacrifice or what have you, the absolutely ultimate determination of what kind of man you were.
I’m finding this is one of those novels that seems much richer and cleverer in retrospect when I think about it than it did while reading it.
As Wittgenstein remarked:"Whereof one cannot speak, thereof one must be silent."DeLillo's protagonist, Gary Harkness, says, "Of all the aspects of exile, silence pleased me least."As David Foster Wallace inferred from his reading of the novel, "SILENCE = HORROR."It's the horror of separation from and the destruction of society.One way of viewing exile is that it is "the state of being separated from whatever is left of the center of one's own history."Exile and silence, therefore, de-centre the individual consciousness.The Complication of the ExileHarkness is one of the exiles in (and from) the Logos College football team.He's physically talented enough to earn a place, but he doesn't really fit in.
One character on the bench wonders what they are missing on TV, and in a truly beautiful page protagonist Harkness has a profound religious experience after recovering from a crunching tackle, soul meeting soil.Reading these interchanges, the phrase 'Loss of affect' comes to mind: the reflective mind protected by carapace of language for speakings sake, just as body armour protects fielded player from aggressive opponent.Everywhere off the field of play, there is deferral.
Not for nothing does star player Taft reveal at the end of the book that he has given up football to study.
(Yeah, I’m WTFing, too.) Anyway, “the desert was an ideal place in which to begin the process of unjewing” (187).Also prescient of Ratner’s Star insofar as “Our radio astronomers will communicate with beings at the very ends of the universe” (78).Delillo must’ve played the foos-ball at some point, as his coach characters capture all of the annoying coach mantras that horrified me in my six-year juvenile foos-ball durance: “You’re saying that what I learn on the gridiron about sacrifice [NB!] will be of inestimable value later on in life.
This is of course a horrible interpretation of this text, and those who think that warfare is a game or indistinguishable from foos-ball are fucking crazy or fascists or something I don’t know what.
Foos-ball itself involves “the urgent breathing of men in preparation for ritual danger” (106).
Third read of this, each time moving higher up my DeLillo-meter. This is directly proportionate to the less seriously I take myself and/or life. End Zone is the one instance where Don's patented 'approximating humanoid' dialogue really serves a function. Of course no one talks like the characters in DeLillo's books, but here that is sort of the joke. Still one of his best endings, and in my Top 5 by the Don.
football is not warfare. warfare is warfare and history is the placement of bodies.
Distinctive and darkly humorous look at the intersection of football and thermonuclear war and the rituals and neuroses of both. DeLillo's distinctive and lovely prose style also benefits the book - this early work shows some of the techniques he would develop much later.
Infinite variables at play interact with slightly enough displacement to alter trajectories, plans, ordered assumption.So then, football.
War. The human search for meaning.Regardless of planned action, injurious results are to be expected.
Nonetheless, it leaves witnesses aghast.Spit intended to hit the ground instead of pants; a triply-converged-tackle killing a footballer; a set of pale legs distended from a wrecked auto.
[A]ffirmation of humanity’s reckless potential?)COMRUS and AMAC are approaching a state of war.“What’s it like to weigh three hundred pounds?”“It’s like being an overwritten paragraph.” What is written.
What is not written.What is spoken.
What is not spoken.“I died well and for this reason was killed quite often.”Bang, You’re Dead.
I mean, you understand what’s going on and who the different characters are, but you’re lost as to the purpose of the book?
I felt that way about Don DeLillo’s End Zone.
I felt as though there was lots of symbolism and meaning and all those kinds of things you have to write about in English essays hidden in the ramblings, but it was so well hidden that I didn’t see it (I didn’t really put in an effort to see it, either).
I find that this kind of thing happens to me an awful lot when I read recent, ’serious’ fiction.
Perhaps this is a little bit difficult to explain, but trapped within this novel of frustratingly psuedo-intellectual conversations, for instance, regarding the nature of nihilism, is a very real attempt to understand, the posturing of language fitting well to convey the ideas and the attitudes, the wanderings and the self-inflated egos and poorly thought out convictions that plague the youth of the world.
It is a novel about finding the self, and it is, even more so, about the fear of losing it.
They are afraid of the bomb, they are afraid of losing, they are afraid of not realizing their potential and so they gain weight, they quit spectacularly, they fail on purpose, and it is in their rationalizing and in their struggles that this novel finds its niche.
-¿Qué es esa foto que tiene pegada a la pared?¿Quién es la chica?-Es Teresa de Ávila. Era una mujer notable.Una santa de la iglesia¿Sabes qué hacía para recordarse a sí misma el final de las cosas?...Comía usando de cuenco un cráneo humano.
Love DeLillo, love End Zone. D.F. Wallace, my favorite author, clearly borrowed a few pages late in this novel for his incredible 'Eschaton' section of Infinite Jest.
Written over a decade before White Noise, it's a whole lot of DeLillo ideas in their embryonic forms. Nuclear war, metaphor upon metaphor, America as incoherent fever dream, sort of humor that really isn't humor. The only problem is that as a young writer, he tried to condense these things into a fairly short book. They need to be given breathing room. As in White Noise, or, better yet, Underworld, which is a great and magisterial tome. But hey, it's early work, and it's got some of that wonderful, paranoid prose that makes DeLillo such a delight to read.
Holy shit. TBR. Fun fact: this book is mentioned in the McCaffery 100 but it is not on the 100 list. It is mentioned alongside the book The Universal Baseball Association, Inc., J. Henry Waugh, Prop..
this is a total guy book.
Review coming soon
idk what's wrong w/ me, but this sort of conceptualization of a book is like painful to me.
maybe this made me particularly short w/ it.but then again, what kind of book /demands/ you drop all other tasks and only think abt it for a while?
ya know what i mean, like dickens cracking the weakest jokes ever in text.
where he describes some character as having an enormous head "without the benefit of a neck" and that moment of actual humanity stuck with me.
i don't even think that huge heads without necks are /that/ funny.
it was like cut from another book.
As when reading Underworld, I was continually struck by the stylist's able hand with complex concepts, but here, perhaps because of the book's size, or maybe because it is the work of an author who still hadn't assumed his position as one of the great prose stylists of late 20th century American letters, his characters don't seem quite so weighed down by their armature of dense, theatrical language.
I haven't read his first novel, but from what I've read, End Zone was the book where DeLillo introduced some of the themes that would define much of his later work.
Don DeLillo's End Zone is a curiously absurd book.
Silence - that's a major theme in the book.
It is the language the writer chooses to whisper unheard insinuations into your ears, making you feel you're always almost on the edge of understanding something profound.
In that regard, it reminded me of Catch-22.There is some really tongue-in-cheek humour in there which plays well off the more serious passages (not all of which were needed, I feel.
After a point those musings just start feeling repetitive and pointless).
I kinda feel like DeLillo runs his typically crazyass premise - football as a metaphor for war - into the ground a little here, but then the sort-of famous line about football not being a metaphor for war because war is a metaphor for war is one of those brilliant acts of subversion only DeLillo could pull...
in the man's typical style, it's pretty much impossible to tell if he's fucking with us, pulling his whole premise out from under our feet and asking us to look elsewhere for the answer, or if it's just supposed to look like he's fucking with us.

Starts great- DeLillo wanders without much plot and the whole book falls apart. Sort of like a cake made badly. Still a cake, but needs more structure.
the most enjoyable of Delillo's work
Don Delillo, you rock. You fucking rock.
David Bell lo fa cercando una realtà più schietta e immediata nel suo viaggio verso l’Arizona con telecamera in spalla, per riprendere momenti reali di un mondo fittizio; Bundy Wunderlick lo fa cercando di spogliarsi di tutte le sovrastrutture con cui la sua fama di rockstar ha seppellito la sua originaria spontaneità creativa; Gary Harkness lo fa autoesiliandosi in un college sperduto dove la vita è ridotta ai minimi termini, dove non ci sono distrazioni e dove può dedicarsi all’unica cosa che sembra definirlo, ossia il football.
Me sacaba de la narración cada dos por tres.fin-de-campo-don-delillo-trabalibrosEnd Zone traducido como “zona de anotación” o “zona final” pegaría más con la terminología asociada a lo que puedes encontrarte en él.
War brings out the best in technology.”Y esta identificación violencia-destrucción con la tecnología le sirve, a continuación, para referenciarla a la crisis de un sistema de valores que valora cada vez más esa violencia cuando se la tergiversa, dándole incluso un valor positivo en el colmo de nuestra civilización.“We all know that life, happiness, fulfilment come surging out of particular forms of destructiveness.
But as the capacity for violence grows in the world, the regenerative effects of specific violent episodes become less significant.
this is a book largely based in abstraction and the inefficiency of language as symbolic of a state of being.
how it gets to these points is via gary harkness, a football player and student at logos college.
the book is concerned with the alienation that language can cause through context: the isolationist slang of sports; the obscure and acronymed technical language of war; the cold abstraction of statistics.
it juxtaposes the language with the physical world of football, where humanity can reach its potential in physical combat, strategic but not removed and distant like long distance bombing.
Glimpses of the perfection in his later books. Odd characters in a banal setting.
This is Delillo's second novel and I had to read it out of order because I couldn't find my copy.
The two main assets to this year's team are Taft Robinson, Logos College's first ever black student and a one-track minded receiver that can run like the wind, and distracted running back Gary Harkness, who has been thrown out of many colleges for being too violent.
There's an extended sequence halfway through the book, a play-by-play of a match with West Centrex Biotechnical Institute, an undefeated team notorious for breaking bones, that is so excitingly realized that I actually went back and read it again in an attempt to map out the maneuverings.
Delillo's first great book.
