https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18869984-the-breaking-point
Further surgery is later required...تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز سی ام آوریل سال 2002 میلادیعنوان: لنز آبی؛ نویسنده: دافنه دو موریه؛ مترجم: شمسی بهبهانی؛ تهران، اختران، 1380، در 39 ص، مصور؛ شابک: 9649317015؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان انگلیسی - سده 20 مقهرمان داستان، خود را گوزنی میبیند، که از جنگیدن خسته شده است.
در داستان‌ کوتاه لنز آبی‌، قهرمان‌ داستان‌، روزی‌ خود را یک گوزن‌ می‌بیند.
داستان‌ توجه‌ خوانشگران‌ آن روزهای بگذشته را، به‌ خود جلب‌ كرد، تا جایی‌ که‌ برای‌ چندین‌ سال‌ پیاپی‌، تجدید چاپ‌ می‌شد.
ماجرای‌ به‌ ظاهر ساده‌ ی داستان‌، با کار گذاشتن‌ لنز آبی‌ بر چشم‌های‌ خانم‌ «ماردا وست‌» آغاز می‌شود.
Du Maurier is just an absolute master of the short story. Each story transported me to a different world and I lingered there only long enough to soak up the magic of the writing, before I was plunged headfirst into yet another tale.
I`m not a short story fan but I enjoyed most of this collection, especailly the first three.
I`m not a short story fan but I enjoyed most of this collection, especailly the first three.
Another Literary Birthday Challenge book, this collection of nine stories by Daphne du Maurier was interesting and thought-provoking.
Each selection gives us a front row seat to witness the Crisis Moments of various character's lives.In the title story, we meet James Fenton, who decides one Sunday that he simply cannot stand the routine of his life any longer.
The last few scenes felt muddled, but then our hero was more than a bit muddled himself anyway, so perhaps it was a fitting way to wrap up that part of his life.I thought The Blue Lenses was wonderfully creepy, and the tension from start to finish was unending.
Μια από τις πιο πρωτότυπες νουβέλες της Ντάφνυ ντυ Μωριέ, η οποία εντυπωσιάζει με την κλιμακούμενη πλοκή της και τις εσωτερικές συγκρούσεις της ηρωϊδας. Είναι ένα καθαρόαιμο ψυχολογικό θρίλερ, το οποίο απογειώνεται καί από την τελική λύση του μυστηρίου. Σίγουρα, η κάθαρση του τέλους αποζημιώνει καί τους ήρωες του βιβλίου καί τον έκπληκτο αναγνώστη. Μόνο... που θα ήθελα να έχει, τουλάχιστον, ακόμα, 20 σελίδες. Βαθμολογία: 4,3/5 ή 8,6/10.
A man named James Fenton is suddenly sick of his wife and his staid family life, of cocktail hour with the neighbors, and he resolves to go knock on a random door and murder someone.
He wanders through a lower middle class neighborhood in London and settles on the home of Anna Kaufman, a German immigrant whose husband has ditched her, and her young son.
I will now reveal the entire plot: (view spoiler)[He gets really into the painting and does lots of paintings of Anna and her son.
After weeks of painting, Fenton informs Anna Kaufman that he will be taking a vacation.
(hide spoiler)]My favorite story was Ganymede.
When this happens, it is as though a link between emotion and reason is stretched to the limit of endurance, and sometimes snaps." -- from the author's note introducing the collectionEight stories comprise this work, written at a period in her life when Daphne du Maurier, exhausted beyond endurance, waited for that snap.
In each story it's abundantly clear when breaking point has been reached, and I can see the catharsis implicit in the writer's determination of what will come to the characters after crisis: they don't just lie down and die at the snap, she makes them act, they are not allowed to give up.
This was as weird as any of her stories. Short quick read.
The only reason I bought it was because I had foolishly walked into a shop with only two dollars in my hand.
Daphne Du Maurier leaves a note to her readers in the book:"There comes a moment in the life of every individual when reality must be faced.
In this collection of stories, men, women, children, and a nation are brought to the breaking point.
Whether the link survives or snaps the reader must juge for himself." Du Maurier is an effective, but subtle story teller.
The stories in this book are so wonderfully dark and unsettling, it's like reading a collection from the twilight zone.
Each led the protagonist to his/her breaking point who later emerges beatific or beaten.Best of the list:The Blue LensesThe AlibiGanymedeThe Archduchess*********************************************"The Alibi" – In an attempt to escape his dull existence John Fenton starts a double life, randomly picking a house he plans to murder its occupants, a single mother and her son, but instead finds release in painting them in oils..."The Blue Lenses" – After several weeks recovering from eye-surgery a woman has her bandages removed.
I still have The Doll: Short Stories to read, but I think I might give these a rest for now and come back to that book when the others aren't so fresh in my mind.
It isn't even explicitly scary in any obvious way, but there is an awful sense of dread and doom throughout the whole thing, and the fact that (view spoiler)[Fenton's brilliant paintings turn out to be just 'daubs' (hide spoiler)]...
To her horror, she finds that the blue lenses allow her to see those around her in a rather different way.This is a very famous story so I already had a good idea of its premise before I read it.
I found these stories to be very dark but beautifully written.Daphne never fails.Luckily I still have a few novels yet to read!
A great selection of stories. Standouts for me where The Alibi, Blue Lenses, Ganymede and the Menace.
Because the stories were so different from each other, I decided to give this book a higher rating.
I normally don't enjoy short story collections but hers I can read with no effort.
I rated each short story in this collection as I read it; see my update reviews under "STATUS."The final story, The Limpet, was my favorite.
SOME EDITIONS DON'T INCLUDE THIS SHORT STORY, SO IF YOU PLAN TO READ THIS BOOK, BE SURE YOU READ THE COPY THAT INCLUDES THIS ONE!
This story was a perfect portrayal of someone whom we all have met, at some point in our lives.
The book was published in 1959 and contains 8 stories, each different and unique in its own right.
I particularly liked The Alibi and The Blue Lenses; the first about a man trying to get some excitement into his life and finding that his plan takes an unexpected turn to the left and the second, almost science fiction, a strange tale of a woman seeing life through new lenses, a very strange and disturbing vision.
But all in all, an excellent, well-written book.
It's continued to whet my appetite for more du Maurier fiction.
This is a chaotic little bunch of stories, my favorite was "The Alibi." I also loved the atmosphere of "The Pool" and the sad humor of "The Archduchess." Only one story in the bunch, "Ganymede," came off as obvious and dull.
After recently binge-reading du Maurier's excellent novel, Rebecca, I decided to pick this collection up, and I wasn't disappointed.
The narration has that haze of nostalgia and timelessness about it, not to mention an optimistic ending that was a nice change from all the rest of the stories.- And finally 'Ganymede' and 'The Chamois' I really liked for the wonderful sense of place and time you get from reading them.
Du Maurier really made Venice and Greece come alive through the sensory details she includes, and it helps that the narrators for both these stories are so interesting and well-written, you feel like you know them personally.
3.75⭐I enjoyed the majority of these short stories in different ways. Some were haunting, some humorous and a few weren’t my taste. Glad I found this book at my local second shop and am happy to add it to my du Maurier collection!The Alibi~ 4.5The Blue Lenses ~ 4Ganymede ~ 2The Pool ~ 3The Archduchess ~ 2The Menace ~ 2.5The Chamois ~ 2The Lordly Ones ~ 4.5The Limpet ~ 4
3.75⭐️I enjoyed the majority of these short stories in different ways. Some were haunting, some humorous and a few weren’t my taste. Glad I found this book at my local second shop and am happy to add it to my du Maurier collection!The Alibi~ 4.5The Blue Lenses ~ 4Ganymede ~ 2The Pool ~ 3The Archduchess ~ 2The Menace ~ 2.5The Chamois ~ 2The Lordly Ones ~ 4.5The Limpet ~ 4

I preferred The Dolls Short Stories by Daphne du Maurier. However these collections of short stories are amazing. They really engage the ready with human nature and make us feel less alone when we have/had or will have those 'breaking point' feelings. That snap in all of us. Again the use of descriptive language from du Maurier makes the stories clear, emotional, poignant and impressive. Definitely worth a read.
I’m not sure if it’s me, or just the books that I am choosing but I’m finding the majority of them really disappointing. Including Daphne Du Maurier. I found Jamaica Inn and My Cousin Rachel wonderful and intriguing (if a little old fashioned), however even Rebecca didn’t live up to the hype that I felt everyone else lauded it with. I have quite a few more downloads of DDM but I’m considering not reading them as I haven’t much of her work enjoyable lately.
The thing I both love and hate about short story collections is the unevenness of the stories contained within them.
I didn't feel much about "The Chamois," and the final story, "The Lucky Ones," felt like it was either rushed and underdeveloped or a bit of a throwaway.
So once again, how do you rate a collection of short stories?
Rate the feeling you have as you look back on the book, realizing you'll likely be influenced most heavily by the last story in it?
I'm going with 3 stars - there are two stories I would definitely read again and a third I would consider.

This is a really bizarre collection of short stories, exploring and blurring the lines between health and sickness, sanity and madness. 'The Alibi' and 'The Pool' each deserve five stars. The Pool in particular, is phenomenally beautiful if nothing else. Two out of eight of the stories collected here though - The Archduchess and The Menace - I couldn't find anything particularly good about. Perhaps I'm missing something in them, but for me they somwehat ruined what was otherwise a really gorgeously written collection.
Not a fan of short stories but a fan of the author. I only enjoyed Blue Lenses.
Dark and wonderful. I'm beginning to enjoy du Maurier a lot more these days.
This collection of short stories is riveting. Clearly in the author's haunting style. The characters are all wonderful.
Started out with great promise. First two stories were very good, but then became increasingly dull and I lost interest to the point of not finishing the final stories
Some interesting ideas, but overall du Maurier's late works are too bleak and depressing for my taste (also, the social commentary hits you over the head like a blunt instrument - she could do so much better).I gave up after two thirds. I'm a big fan of Daphne du Maurier, but stories like these really show that she had some very severe problems in her later years. I'll stick to the earlier short stories and the novels.
While I love Daphne du Maurier's novels (especially "The Scapegoat"), this short story collection was so-so. "The Alibi" was quite good (unlikeable narrator gets caught up in a situation that is destined to end badly) and "The Blue Lenses" had an interesting twist, the others were not that compelling. Stick to the novels...
