https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/180630.Lie_Down_in_Darkness
This is EXACTLY the kind of book I would have written in my early 20s had I not been lazy, talentless and drunk.
I'm going to begin this review with the thought that somewhere along the line, someone had told this guy that he had a gift for descriptive prose and he got the erroneous idea that he could write an entire book of it.
He won a Putlitzer Prize (not for this book)and I'd even read his stuff before.
Sophie's Choice has one of my favorite opening lines ever.
I was determined to do it and I feel like I'd won a small victory.
Be prepared, however, as he does not write happy books.
While it seems to be an old-fashioned fictional technique to dwell on description, I found myself fond of Styron's sharp, lingering eye on the faces of his characters, whether--like Peyton, Milton, and Helen--they bear an influence that is felt on every page, or--like Peyton's wedding guests, or her first beau, Dick Cartwright--they float in for a short time.Narrative texture, then, comes to this novel in other ways -- the lyrical opening pages of a train traveling through Virginia, told in disarming second-person, for example, and the surprising section near the end that shifts into breathless first-person for fifty pages without a single paragraph break.
There is more than one character who would make a study in how too much alcohol consumption can ruin a life, and I won’t even hint at the corruption of the human spirit underlying these familial relationships.The hurt and damage has gone deep, and who, finally, lest it be God himself, could know where the circle, composed as it was of such tragic suspicions and misunderstandings, began, and where it ended?
Peyton is the only character that stirred any sympathy in me and it felt sad to know her ultimate fate and that she would not find enough backbone to put her family behind her.
"She had wanted the future to be like a nice, long, congenial tea party, where everyone talked a little, danced a little and had polite manners.
Styron's first novel is dark and brooding, a southern gothic tale about a Tidewater Virginia family bent on destroying itself.
When the opening scenes are about the suicide of a 21 year old daughter, you know it's not going to end well.
For now, I need to leave these people behind and attend a few of those above mentioned tea parties with the nice, congenial, polite participants.
Sometimes three stars means a novel was a good experience.
Reading Lie Down in Darkness was a painful experience.
The structure of the novel was unique and worked to support the story.
The craft seems so advanced.To love a novel I need something more than story.
But I still need a story that grabs me.
I don't have to like the characters, but I need to feel something about them.The story of Loftis, Helen and Peyton is foretold in the first few pages of the novel.
There was no story to be told.
This book fleshes finely how infectious this tight hold on madness is, spreading across the family, outside of the family to anyone who gives a damn about any of them.
This is fully me: I just can't take this bomb of a story with its run-on lines its endless time-stopped moments its drunken stupor-- tell me you can after reading 400 pages of descriptive prose, including 50 pages of ONE paragraph.
William Styron's first novel (at 25) is my favorite, as much as I value what came later. Peyton Loftis is a haunting figure, lusted after by her father, hated by her mother, and thus, probably doomed from early on. But we get to see the fall. There's nothing melodramatic about any of it. Words like 'searing' and 'shattering' come to mind when I think of the overall impact of this book.
Some people like these dark, perfervid, passionate, morbid, Southern gothic stories.
Here there are great mounds of garbage; a sweet, vegetable odor rises perpetually on the air and one can see - from the distance faintly iridescent - whole swarms of carnivorous flies blackening the garbage and maybe a couple of proprietary rats, propped erect like squirrels, and blinking sluggishly, with mild, infected eyes, at some horror-stricken Northern tourist.It's impossible to endorse a daughter calling her father "Bunny" - but passages like this help ease the reader's discomfort:There were wide barren fields now, a patch of river to the south, the Rappahannock; this was territory that they knew, where one lane, one house or barn, gliding soundlessly past the car's vaultlike silence, only announced another house or lane or barn a few yards farther on, each more familiar as they drew closer to home.
It is the tale of the dysfunctional Loftis family...their betrayals, infidelities, and disappointed love that ultimately results in the suicide of their daughter Peyton.
The story is told as the family accompanies her body to the cemetery.I really wanted to like this book...in fact I really wanted to LOVE this book.
He LOVES it.
I usually love books of this genre.
Dark Southern novels...quirky characters...psychological turmoil.
It didn't happen for me with this book.
I really wanted to feel something...
anything for the characters...but I didn't.
But in the end I want to "feel" something and I didn't.
Styron tries to go for your heart strings right at the start of the book, assuming you’ll care about the divorced couple dealing with the suicide of their daughter, but nothing at all is done to make us care.
I’m being smacked over the head with misery and suffering, and I’m just not buying it: it doesn’t feel real.
Lie Down in Darkness does not feel real.
Styron seems to have no interest in pacing the book, and will go back and forth in time, in and out of perspectives, all seemingly at random.
I read this first novel of William Styron about 30 years ago when I was in my 20's.
I would have given it five stars back then.
Now I give it four stars.
The book is about an extremely dysfunctional Tidewater Virginia family with pretensions to "FFV" ("first families of Virginia"....the aristocracy of that state), and the tragic relationship between the alcoholic father, his very neurotic wife and their lovely, sensitive daughter, Peyton.
When I first read it, I loved the highly dramatic and emotionally charged relationships between the main characters.
I actually read the e-book edition from Open Road Integrated Media.
I really enjoyed the story and Styron's execution is brilliant, especially when you consider that he was 26 when it was published.
It even ended up in New York for a bit, so the book really resonated with me.
I flagged a bit at the end with the stream-of-consciousness and a closing scene I can only assume is fraught with symbolism.
However, it did not tarnish my feeling for the book all too much, and I expect to read more Styron in the future.

William Styron's debut novel, published in 1951, tells the story of a tragedy that resonates not only for its sadness but for its painful sense of the arbitrary nature of fate.
Staggering through the sweltering streets in an urban and alien landscape, unable to envision a place for herself in the modern, multi-racial America which her own Virginia ancestors both fought for and betrayed, the stunningly beautiful but fatally flawed Peyton makes a shattering realization about her own inexorable fate.LIE DOWN IN DARKNESS contains some laughably outdated ideas about the innate refinement of southern females, but in spite or perhaps because of these dated elements the tragedy of Peyton Loftis remains genuinely poignant.
It felt like a million years until the author wrote another novel, "Sophie's Choice" of similarly incredible proportions, but quite different (or at least the story is a lot different, but maybe the characters here were similarly lost in their lives).
How wonderful to discover that the author's superb writing enabled him to comes with an essential book that is lyrical and has characters to both strongly dislike and adore, or both.
This book has so much internal and external obsession among its group of basically dysfunctional family members.
The story of possibly the most dysfunctional family ever, Milton Loftis a womanizing creepy guy who lusts after his own daughter Peyton...
and Helen, the mother who loathes her because of it, and ends up doting over Maudie the other "crippled" daughter.
William Styron won the Pulitzer Prize for his later book The Confessions Of Nat Turner, the story of a rebellious slave and was probably most famous for another book Sophie's Choice which became an award winning movie, and his writing here will make you feel literary, as it has the structure of an old classic.
A catch up for On The Southern Literary Trail - 3 stars
I think if I read this and a Richard Yates novel back to back I would throw myself off a tall building!
Masterful prose and characters that draw you in and keep you reading although none are particularly sympathetic.
I had read Sophie's Choice years ago, but never this one, so wanted to know more about the book that launched Bill Styron's career.
If his view of Virginia is anything close to the way he depicts it in the novel, there's no mystery about why he was not tempted to return very often.
Not an easy read, but a memorable one.
This was my first time reading Styron and I fell in love. The story of the Loftis family consumes you... I had a hard time putting this novel down. I enjoyed delving into the minds of the different characters, trying to identify with and understand their troubles and experiences. I look forward to reading more of Styron's novels. I would definitely recommend this book to a specific crowd - although I can't quite put my finger on it - but it isn't meant for everyone.
Another daughter, Maudie, is also dead, Helen, the mother for 23 years is a mother no longer and she and Milton are separated.This is an interesting read, having just read, as I said, Darkness Visible, a memoir of depression, and some of the very things Styron writes about in that one are displayed herein.okay, back at it or smoke em if you got emupdateFinished, Sunday evening, 9:03 p.m. e.s.t.Having read his Darkness Visible prior to this, having read his words in that work to do w/depression and his realization years after he wrote this one that in here he was dealing with depression, I think we are lazy and do harm when we use expression s like "dysfunctional family"...at least one description uses the phrase to talk about this story.
I know that it probably isn't for everyone...I've seen people use the phrase 'continuous stream of consciousness' to describe it, the thing is that you jump from one person's stream to another sometimes within the same paragraph.
I think it's genius.The story is heartbreaking.
But it's a common enough situation in 2012, just as it was in the 1940's when the story is based.
The selfishness shown in these people, narcissism, sadistic actions, masochistic reactions...I'm sure we've all known a Peyton, or Loftis, or Helen.
All that said, the black characters in this story are the only ones who really, truly, unselfishly mourn Peyton's death...
This was my first experience with Styron.
Sort of like Faulker meets Paul Theroux meets something softer.
The novel is one continuous decent into death, and so aptly titled.
Tragic and depressing and well-written; full of sincerity and yearning.
And I don't think you can ask much more from a novel or story.
I don't want to give away a significant event in the book, but I have not found anywhere a more effective use of a symbol in a book.
Not even really thinking about it, but just becoming stuck on this one character.
I'm continuing to rate and review my favorite books.
I have to give this 5 stars.
It's an American classic.
It's Styron's first book, and it's the only book of his I've read, but I get the feeling that he was really letting himself as an artist hang out there, giving it his all.
Before he might've actually "learned" anything.
Just a hunch.
There is beautiful prose here.
Sure, the story is a bit wandering and large and open.
It didn't bother me.
I just soaked up this writer's gift.
And that's what this book is.
A gift to engaged readers.
Dorothy Parker talked about this book in an interview so I decided to get it. Wow. The first 360 odd pages were intricate and tightly woven to make this tragic tapestry. At first I was upset with the POV change, then the whole thing came together for this incredible masterpiece. So real, so dark, so distrurbing. William Styron doesn't back down and I think it takes real courage to write like this. I felt like I was living as Peyton. Truly soul shaking.
Don't botherTragic novel - stream of consciousness with a bit of a story running through it. I skimmed through it to pick up the pieces of the story buried under endless words.
When it was published in 1951, William Styron's debut novel stirred up a hornet's nest in my fair city, since locals believe some of their own had been thinly disguised and skewered for snobbery, racism, inbreeding, drunkenness, hypocrisy and more in its pages.
Styron's black characters tend to be more sympathetic than those they serve, though the dialect given them may mask that dynamic to modern readers.
And, the incestuous longings of father and daughter are never named, which might be too subtle for the modern reader.
But the book was published in a more puritanical time.Styron can write.
I loved it on my recent read so I thought I should return to Lie Down in Darkness, another book I hadn't been able to complete.This is a very good, if not great, novel.
Styron ranges back and forth in time and point of view throughout the novel in presenting the causes of Peyton's depression and suicide.Peyton Loftis is the template for a particular kind of doomed Southern girl - beautiful with Daddy issues and a dozen bad habits, the kind of girl certain kinds of boys fall in love with but never marry.
It fills me with envy for Willian Styron's staggering talent, as well as empathy for the life he must have lived to be able to produce a work of such absolute darkness.'Lie Down in Darkness' is an uncompromising tragedy about an ill-fated family in Virginia in the first half of the 1900s.
Underneath it all, the family is infected with a much darker horror that is hinted at but not explicitly stated.These four principal characters are responsible for each other's increasing unhappiness, but the beauty of Styron's characterization is that we never get the sense that any of them are at fault.
Beginning with the death of young socialite Peyton Loftis (this is not a spoiler), the book drifts between past and present, revealing not a single likable character.
I expect it in older novels set in the south, but in this one, the racism didn't seem to be the characters' but the author's.
I know nothing about Styron and this issue, but there was something about how he portrayed the black side characters, as if every one was a caricature --- while he spent such care and gave his white characters great (if repulsive) depth --- that made me dislike him as a person.
I guess this book also gets four stars because it gave me so much to think about in regard to these issues.
William Styron was awarded the Prix de Rome of the American Academy of Arts and Letters for this his first novel, written when he was twenty-six - and compared to Updike's Rabbit Run (written when he was much the same age)it appears a much better work.
But, it wasn't a novel I enjoyed.
Example: About half-way between West and New York the motor road hastily joins the railroad  and runs beside it for a quarter of a mile, so as to shrink away from a certain  desolate area of land.
