https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/777211.Executive_Power
Excellent, best one so far!! If you enjoyed the tv show, 24, then you'll love this. One of my favourite series, Flynn never fails to disappoint.
Sometimes, I'm not sure why I keep reading these books.
It's basically a guy's version of a romance novel.
Bad guys!
It's a literary version of the television show 24.That said, any story involving Mitch Rapp is a page turner, no matter how poorly written or how much the author's disdain for things like the UN, diplomacy, and liberal universities seep through the story.Break down:+ 4 stars for mostly gripping story- 1 star for a totally lame way to off the antagonist- 1 star for awkward discussions and moments involving Mitch's wife and his boss.That leaves us with 2 stars.
There were three main plot elements and as it transpired there wasn't a great deal to link them in the end.You can't fault Vince Flynn's ability to add a good bit of action/adrenaline sequence in which is what we got with a hostage rescue mission in the Philippines but there was no real need for this in the greater scheme of things.
As previously stated, it is the action scenes that draw me in here and I just don't see where they are going to come from now.I will continue this series though even with slight concerns on the direction it will take as Vince Flynn was a great author able to weave a complex, action fuelled tale.If you like this try "Killing Floor" by Lee Child or "24" by Keifer Sutherland
Seemed to be shorter than other Mitch Rapp books but had all of the elements you come to expect for this series. No real complaints but I didn't really feel "wowed" at the end of it. I wouldn't say I was disappointed though. All in all it was a good read.
Number 6 in the chronological order of the Mitch Rapp series, Executive Power, was another good read from author Vince Flynn.
Since Mitch's cover was blown in the previous book, Separation of Powers, Flynn sends Mitch's character in another direction.
That being said, Mitch still comes through as a great American hero, in the fact that he can only take so much of the office life before he just has to get involved.I still liked this book very much, however, I can only hope that Mitch plays more of the assassin role in the rest of the series.
Global terrorism is on the rise and CIA agent Mitch Rapp is on the case. The author does a great job on a fiction novel that has the feel of reality.
But Mr Flynn saves it with some great plotting, and the introduction of a character who manages to steal the show from Mitch Rapp.
Nevertheless, one of them, featuring the Palestinian agent provocateur, is some of Flynn's best writing, while the other, Mitch Rapp's Philippine business trip, has a few good action scenes, despite being a bit more bland at times.
While the some of the story arcs drag the book down, it's saved by Mitch's evolution into the counter-terrorist operative we all know and love, along with Flynn's best antagonist executing the false flag operation to end all false flag operations.
This is the sixth installation of Mitch Rapp's adventure, you know the super agent from the CIA who is a leader in covert operations, a martial arts expert, who takes pleasure in killing terrorists and enemies of the state.The previous reiterations, especially the first three books of the series, were quite good!
One would expect to see Mitch Rapp involved in death defying high action sequences against terrorists in this latest book.
Don't even think about it...I really don't want to quit on Mr Flynn's series, but there are so many other good books out there waiting for me that I just have to prioritize from now on.
This is about the 3rd or 4th CIA, special ops, our stud hero is "Rapp", reads like believeable current events, fiction novel by Vince Flynn that I have read.
I love his stuff, but maybe my Sunday Times friends would not stoop this low.
It's exciting, there are two stories being developed at the same time, and those two stories meet near the end in a dramatic way.
Flynn is from the Twin Cities.
Flynn throws out a lot of technical things about planes, ships, guns, armament ...
but doesn't slather it on like Tom Clancy!
This one didn't seem quite up to Vince Flynn's standards although I am having trouble putting my finger on exactly why. It might be because it deals a lot with the Israel/Palenstine political situation which isn't my favorite. Or it might be because there are really two separate stories here, two novellas really, that only minimally tie-in together.And Mitch Rapp's wife is really starting to annoy me.
The first time I listened to this I didn't know where Flynn was going with the dual arcs - one featuring David aka Jabril Khatabi and the other, Mitch Rapp, of course.
I would recommend anyone about to read this installment approach the book this way.Despite my enjoying the book very much, there are weak spots and the weakest was the way Flynn offed the villains - not just the scene where David and Omar are killed off (both so anti-climactic) but I felt rather mislead by Flynn where these two characters are concerned.

We learn linguistically by 'pushing the envelope' absorbing a better word, but not by dumbing down a word's meaning to the level of colloquial misuse.
:>decimate means to reduce by 10% not annihilation as used in the bookI don't like Anna Reilly.
The character of Mitchell Rapp, as I know him, would not place himself in that position.
I wouldn't see a nature biologist picking up a coral snake barehanded because they admire it's beauty.I like to listen to audio when I can.
So thru my pubic library I accessed the audio from www.hoopladidgital.com.
So be careful.I hope that the awkwardness of this sixth Rapp book is caused by transition of character.
6th in the Mitch Rapp series, if you include the two prequel books.
This is the first book of the series set after 9/11 but it is only referred to in passing, which seems odd when read now, but it is over a decade old.
There's the usual mix of action, intrigue and politics, and we get to see a more human side of Rapp - he even cooks dinner!
I don't know enough about Middle East politics to be sure which characters are real and which made up, but it was all pretty interesting and I look forward to the next one.
This is the 6th of the Mitch Rapp series and the 6th that I've read as I've read them all in order.This was a notch below the previous 5 books.
Another factor could be that I've read so many of the series in a relatively short period of time that I'm somewhat burnt out.
I have the 7th book, Memorial Day, sitting on my nightstand and I might read that next or one of the other 5 books on the stand.
In this book, Mitch exceeds his authority and angers both his S.O. and his boss.
It's not a bad read, just not quite at the level of the earlier books.
While this wasn't the best in the series, it was still a very enjoyable read. Unlike a lot of others who were disappointed the two plot lines didn't connect, I really enjoyed that they were two totally separate threats and issues that Mitch had to deal with -- it felt more real than having both of them linked for the sake of neat storytelling.
CIA super-agent Mitch Rapp is the man. He makes everyone else look like an amateur. This was a great read packed with lots of action and some great plot twists.
4.5 starsWell. The ending was a bit anticlimactic. However, that isn't a bad thing. Sometimes, the unexpected happens.
These are the two primary plots in the book, both filled with suspense, danger and sufficient twists and unexpected turns."Executive Power" gets Rapp inside the oval office and face to face with the president and high-ranking cabinet members.
The only elements in common between the two plots were the heated dialogues that took place in the White House and the give and take between Rapp and Anna as they dealt with Rapp’s passion for dangerous missions.
Ik zie Bruce Willis inderdaad als een goede keuze voor de persoon Mitch Rapp.
Bruce Willis speelt bijna altijd de misdaadbestrijder met de goede inborst.De onderwerpen in dit boek zijn heel actueel.
Antiterrorisme is aan de orde van de dag.' Dit onderdeel van het vredesproces was gemakkelijk, met beschaafde mensen in een prachtige stad als Parijs, die over mooie idealen spraken terwijl de wereld vol lof over hen was.
Maar duizenden kilometers verderop werden jonge Palestijnse jongens en meisjes opgeleid om zichzelf op te blazen in de naam van hun god.'Ik heb het boek graag gelezen en kijk uit naar 'Jacht op de jager' die binnenkort (eind mei 2015) bij Karakter verschijnt.Dit boek waardeer ik met 3,5/5 sterren.
There's a lot going on in this story, but the various story lines converge at the end. Full of action and suspense, paired with a hero you can't help but root for, all add up to a story that was a great listen on audio CD. Good story for my first read/listen for this author; made even better by a great narrator, George Guidall! Ratings bump because of the narrator -- 8 out of 10.
Well, I have never read the series before this year, and I believe I am now a Mitch Rapp fan. Although this novel reads like two stories in one, it was filled with entertaining characters in a fast-paced narrative. I like how the author uses characters both with and against each other, and the chapters are just long enough to keep on turning pages. I recommended it!
Overall, an exciting thriller. I liked what Flynn did with the two simultaneous story lines early on, but ultimately I wish they were better integrated. The plot and ending is a bit far-fetched, not impossible just not all that plausible. But that's what one would expect from this genre.
Action Packed, Edge Of Your Seat Read!!! I Loved It!!!
Just your standard candy from Flynn. Another quick-paced, action-packed thriller that feels relevant in today's society.
If, like me, you don't find many redeeming qualities in lifetime politicians, self-important bureaucrats and enormous, unwieldy government agencies which can't seem to function efficiently, Flynn's books are for you.Executive Power is the fourth novel in Flynn's Mitch Rapp series and it follows the newly "toned down" exploits of our recently wedded Mitch Rapp as he attempts to transition from butt kicking, black ops, field agent for the CIA to paper pushing, intelligence focused, Counter Terrorism Director for the CIA.
We're introduced to a betrayal by our allies in the Philippines, Some underhanded dealings by the Israelis, a secret Palestinian statehood scheme and a new, resourceful mercenary operative attempting to manipulate events on the world stage.I've gotta' say, I didn't enjoy Executive Power as much as some of Flynn's previous Mitch Rapp books.
Mitch Rapp is back in this explosive book, "Executive Power" by Vince Flynn (Master of Thrillers).Rapp's cover has been exposed and he's now on center stage no longer on the front line.Working as a special advisor he answers directly to Irene Kennedy the Director of the CIA.Rapp is ready to take on terrorism from behind the desk that's until a platoon of Navy seals is ambushed and the target has been made known.However the main question arises concerning who would expose so many vital secrets?
Always enjoy Vince Flynns reads and this was no exception. Nothing but formula here, but he does it better than almost anyone.
3.5 stars.
Not totally out in La-La Land like Brad Thor (I’d put my mortgage on that NOT being the name on his birth certificate, whaddaya think?) and the shaved orang-utan Trump, but more centre, if Yanks think Clinton is a ‘socialist.’ Anyway, he seems a decent enough guy all told.Yet, Executive Power is without doubt Vince Flynn’s best Mitch Rapp book so far.
If Hurley and all the others who were in at the start but then…well, again, we don’t know because there’s still the 10 year black hole (maybe Steven Hawking should be commissioned to write books from that period?).
