https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/103408.Thinking_in_Pictures
She is very methodical in her writing, explaining everything absolutely perfectly, ensuring you get an accurate mental picture of the way she thinks.I can empathize with her in a lot of respects.
There are other bits I sympathize with in Temple's narrative: her adherence to a (relatively) strict schedule and her inability to make small talk (oh lord, give me something to talk about besides the weather and clothes, please, or let me go back to my book).
You'll feel like you know her.The book I read contained updates at the end of each chapter.
An interesting autobiography of an autistic women who has achieved much in her career as a brilliant
Temple, craving pressure to calm her down, designed a device, much like a cattle squeeze chute that she saw at her aunt's ranch in Arizona.
Temple described fully how the fear impulses that autistic people feel are much like the same fear impulses that cattle and animals feels.
For example, ability in art often shows up at an early age." Autistic people's fixations can be their way to achieve some social life and friends.
The computer world is a way for autistic people to not have to spend so much time concentrating on trying to talk normally.I had no idea that Einstein had, and Bill Gates has, a form of autism.
Saw her on C-Span in an hour and a half long sit down w/Steve. It's still up. Moved me to tears, am dyslexic, and loved her characterization of our difficulties. She's a treasure. Too many of my friends have born children who are somewhere on the spectrum. I've been promoting her, and gifting her books to them, in hopes that they'll hear her central message, which is: people on the spectrum only ever get better.
The tragedy of this book is that even as Temple Grandin's crusade to help slaughter farm animals humanely led to many changes, I tend to doubt these changes are still in effect.
I live near a plant she designed.
This plant, until a year ago, was staffed by many illegal immigrants.
Feel-good people reading this may be offended, but it is the truth and these are people I deal with every day.
I could, because I do business with this plant, probably take a tour if I wanted to.
She did good work.
While I admire Temple for her talent, ingenuity, courage and determination in pursuing her education and career goals, I find her writing to be all over the place, rambling, difficult to follow and limited- in that she makes sweeping generalizations about autistic people, based on her own personal experience of course.
What she fails to realize is that not all autistic people are like her!
Not all autistic people are visual learners, they all *don't* 'think in pictures'...This is of course, one of the ironies with autistics: their own theory of mind issues come in to play in their writing about autism.
As a parent of an autistic child, many well-meaning people will ask, "Do you know about Temple Grandin?" I initially picked up the book just so I could say that I was familiar with her, and had read some of her work.
She does a fantastic job of explaining how her thought processes work, and how it may be similar to other people on the autistic spectrum.
Since autism is such a wide spectrum disorder, much of what she writes about simply doesn't match my daughter at all, however some of the behaviors and idiosyncrasies that Dr. Grandin describes match pretty closely, and gave me a little insight as to how my daughter may be feeling during times of stress.
Temple Grandin lays out her book in a series of essays that hit topics like: the different kinds of ways people think, and in-depth look at Visual Thought, sensory issues that people with autism go through, how autistic people perceive emotions, the kind of jobs an autistic person is good at, the kind of relationships they can have, and so much more.
This, in all honesty, is a fantastic picture of what she's trying to explain to the non-autistic reader: people with autism think and process differently.
This is a fascinating book written by a woman with high-functioning autism.
Temple Grandin describes her life struggles and triumphs.
Her unique way of thinking allows her to really identify with animals and to be able to look at situations from their point of view.
This talent has allowed her to design very humane slaughterhouses for cattle.
She examines herself, autism, and her world.
I really liked the way this book unlocked some of their world.
She said: "I don't want my thoughts to die with me.
I want to know that my life has meaning ...
I hope you all aren't disappointed but I am so in awe of Temple Grandin after reading this book that I can't find the words to express it. What an awesome woman she is, we can all learn a great deal from her. On to the next book!
This is clearly the best in the catalog of Temple Grandin who is a star performer on the circuit of parent conferences on Autism. It provides an inspirational tale of the struggles of an intelligent woman and a very courageous mother. Only buy this book if you attend a conference and can get it autographed.
Most epigenetic changes only occur within the course of one individual organism's lifetime and does not necessarily pass on to the next generation, like jumping genes.
One of the most profound mysteries of autism has been the remarkable ability of most autistic people to excel at visual spatial skills while performing poorly at verbal and social skills.
For example, an autistic child might use the word "dog" when wanting to go outside.
If you are interested in human development and yourself I highly recommend this book for you.
Temple Grandin's book "Thinking in Pictures and Other Reports from My Life with Autism" is certainly a unique book.
She has made a career of designing equipment for handling livestock.Grandin describes how she thinks "in pictures" rather than "in words", and how that casts a strong influence on how she deals with life.
Grandin also has a strong philosophical bent; she describes how she thinks about the killing of animals for the meat industry.
The only part of the book that was a bit boring to me was a chapter in the middle, about various medications used for autism.
I was expecting more of a memoir, but this really ended up being Ms. Grandin's opinion on different aspects of autism with her own experiences only sprinkled in.
There were points that were interesting and I do feel like I have a better handle on autism in general, but that just wasn't what I was expecting when I decided to read this book.
If you are curious about autism and want to know Ms. Grandin's specific stance on issues related to autism then you should read this book.
If you are looking for more of a memoir, this isn't what you want.
Highly recommend!
One of the top reads of 2010.
My son was diagnosed with autism earlier this year and I felt like this was a great way to get some insight to the way that he thinks.
In a world where it seems that everyone is looking for the magic "cure" for autism, I was glad to read that Temple wouldn't change a thing.
Autism is a part of my son's entire being and personality.
Gave me a lot of hope that he will lead a successful and happy life as an adult doing something that he loves.
"Different, not less"
Since I have two grandsons who are autistic, I was interested in learning more. Temple Grandin seemed very honest, educated and sincere in her appraisal of autisim. Because I basically "think in only words," I had difficulty seeing how Temple and other autistics think. However, the book was extremely enligthening. I hope to be able to use some of things I learned in working with and understanding my grandsons.
This is probably one of the most honest and insightful, eye-opening books out there, not just on autism but on diversity and why it's our differences that make the human race so vibrant. Temple Grandin's book is slightly funny, slightly serious, full of intelligence and understanding and it's a powerful testament to the personality of a gifted person.
If you read Emergence, and then move on the Thinking in Pictures, the first thing you will notice is a level of detail that was not present in that first book.
On a personal level, this book was simply a delight to read.
I had that particular epiphany back in college, and experienced the pleasure of having loads of people look at me like I was nuts every time I talked about it, so imagine my happy shock when I read this book and discovered that someone else thinks about God in much the same way I do.
I am very much looking forward to reading more of Temple Grandin's books and seeing what other insights she has into not just autism but the world in general.
Really gets you thinking about how different minds work (not just those on the spectrum, but my kids and anyone really) and how to try to meet them where they are to better communicate and understand them.
Along the way you will learn more and broaden your way of seeing things and thinking.
I did skip the some of the chapter about different meds, which is unlike me, but I couldn't keep focus while reading that one.
My favorite was the last chapter, especially where she writes: "Maybe immortality is the effect one's thoughts and actions have on other people".
Reading lots of books on autism spectrum disorder, while at the same reading Buddhist teachings, I've often been struck by their parallels, particularly in living in the present and in a world without words.
I was therefore delighted to read about Grandin experiencing what she refers to as a "Zen meditational state" and (in a mirror image of my wondering) speculating that "Maybe the monks who chant and meditate are kind of autistic." While other people have a hard time reconciling her understanding and love of animals with her work--she has designed one-third of all the livestock-handling facilities in the United States and focuses on humane slaughtering--she sees no such moral dichotomy.
I already knew that people who are autistic think differently than those who aren’t, but it was really interesting to read about Temple’s thought processes and the way she is able to picture things in her head and combine parts and pieces of other pictures to create something new, and even play the designs in her head like a video to catch potential flaws or problems.
I’m so impressed she was able to navigate her world well enough to finish school and find jobs that allowed her to utilize her unique talents and abilities, and I was touched by the people who helped and mentored her along the way during a time when autism was not nearly as well understood as it is now.
Overall, I am incredibly impressed by Temple Grandin and I enjoyed learning more about autism through the eyes of someone who lives with it.
I would have liked to have learned a bit more about her family, but I guess since personal relationships are often difficult for people with autism, it should make sense that the book didn't focus on her family life.
I was impressed by those who served as mentors to Temple and patiently helped her reach her potential.
Autism is part of what I am.” If the book is just too much...
Her mother was an amazing woman, no doubt, but she has a very valuable ability to interpret her inner life for the rest of us.
I learned a great deal about the different ways of thinking that are not verbal--visual images, nonverbal sounds, patterns, match--and the problem of sensory overload that afflicts many autistic individuals.
Her message of hope and her obvious passion for the lives of those who may be brilliant but need a great deal of help learning how to translate their experience to the rest of us was inspiring.
I also learned a great deal about how animals think.
This book taught me so much about what it means to live with a Dx on the spectrum as well as how not all human beings think the same.
The book helped me to understand literally how my brain works and that other people are gifted in other areas becasue their brains work differently.
And that they can't do some of the things that come so naturally to me because they are literally wired differently.
To be able to come back from pretty serious Autistic Sx and write books like this is an amazing gift!
Just simply AMAZING. I did not read the book yet but I saw the movie and it was outstanding. Dr. Temple Grandin teach at Colorado State University. Never ever give up on any children they all have a fantastic mind of their own. Give them as many extra chances as they need until they open the door to another world.I read the book in one day...facinating, and very interesting. I keep my rating at 5 stars. A must read for all educators, therapists, parents and people who just want to learn more about autism!
I have a child with autism and first read this book when my child was diagnosed ten years ago. I was fascinated with the look inside the head of someone living with the ailment. Temple Grandin's insights were useful, helpful and uplifting, allowing me hope at a time I was searching for it -- when everything else was too overwhelming. Even if you do not know someone with autism, this book is a gripping read.
It's not poetry but a very readable, simple yet thorough description of autism and related experiences and educated guesses about how the wiring of the brain has a cause and effect on it's operations which can be reasonably catalogued and documented. The suggestions to reach the brain despite the wiring distortions for sensory perceptions were eye opening and educating. Very interesting.
Visualizing every wordThis has been a quite touching read. I have had a growing interest in here and autism as a whole.
Worth reading
The Women's National Book Association sent this book to the White House yesterday (March 26) in honor of Women's History Month: https://www.wnba-centennial.org/book-...From the Women's National Book Association's press release:In this most unusual memoir, Grandin, who has a Ph.D. in animal studies, writes about the way she sees the world and how it has hindered and helped her.
Other mentors along the way helped Grandin deal with the social and emotional worlds.
Her unique way of processing emotion and information—her ability to “think in pictures”—led her to become an expert in the design of livestock handling equipment.
