https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79275.The_Fields

The Fields is the second of Conrad Richter's trilogy and picks up where The Trees left off, about a year after Sayward Luckett's marriage to Portius Wheeler.
The Fields covers a long time span and many of the chapters read as brief vignettes marking the passage of time--one older child after another starts to grow up, the scattered settlements coalesce into something like a village and the land is cleared of trees and (disastrously) of the game that once teemed through the forests, leaving nothing left when the crops fail.
The trees called to "woodsies" like her father and brother, but for her they were the enemy with whom she was at war, and this installment is about her victory:Only last week the stalks were still green and supple.
Most every day she had come here to feel the heads and watch the wind run through the field like water.
One day last week the wind came from the east.
And though this was written in 1946, the way he writes women never feels dated.
Having hewn out a clearing for themselves, quite literally, the pioneers can now begin to look out on open fields of wheat and corn with a measure of hopefulness that they are making progress against the frontier.
In a cruel irony, the pioneers face worse problems in the fields than they did in the dense forests.
Like a memoir, it seduces you into Sayward's life, and you emerge from the book having felt you experienced her life, rather than merely read about it.
These 3 books (The Trees, The Fields, & The Town) are collectively known as The Awakening Land Series.
They give an accurate view of what life was like for pioneers settling into N.
America, specifically migrating from Pennsylvania to the wild unsettled area of what is now Ohio.
They are narrated by the main character who begins the series as a teenager and then ends with her as an old woman in the last book.
He even uses the accent and vernacular of the time.
This is one of my all time favorites.
This is the second book in Conrad Richter's "Land Awakening" trilogy, following The Trees, and preceding The Town, which won the Pulitzer Prize in 1951.
At the close of the first novel, Sayward married Portius Wheeler, a "Bay State Lawyer." Although their marriage was arranged by other settlers, Sayward had her eye on the quiet man they all called "Solitary." In The Fields we see the marriage of Sayward and Portius grow to maturity, even as the woods frontier grows into a settlement community.
The community is growing up, just like the Wheelers.The Fields is a moving portrait of marriage and motherhood.
I am really enjoying this old trilogy about settlers in Ohio in the years after the Revolutionary War. Written in 1946, this book uses the vernacular of actual old settlers, which sometimes I cannot figure out exactly.
The main character is Sayward Luckett, who is 15 when the trilogy begins.
It is beautiful writing, and I can picture the setting clearly in my imagination.
Sayward loves her land, and loves being able to conquer it, and she describes her fields, her plowing, her planting and harvesting often.
Who doesn't love their land?
He tells about the author, his writing process, and his life.
These books are so rich, I'm not equal to doing them justice, you'll just have to take my word for it and read them.
But the main reason to read them is Sayward (pronounced "Saird," apparently, except by her husband for whom special allowance is made due to all his book-learning).
She's just such a great character, I'm afraid to read the third book, because then I'll be done, no more Sayward to look forward to.
But the books are good enough I can always re-read them in a few years (or next month).
Excellent sequel to The Trees, second volume in Conrad Richter's The Awakening Land series. The austere tone and country ("woodsy") diction is maintained, but it never obtrudes on the narrative or breaks the wonderful spell this story casts. I am growing very fond of Saird Luckett. She reminds me of my grandmother. I'm going to miss her when I finish The Town.
I first read The Awakening Land trilogy in 7th grade, some 46 years ago, and then I lost The Fields while rereading it.
Then I discovered that these books, published initially in 1940, 1942, and 1946 respectively, were back in print from the Ohio University Press.
They're every bit as good as I'd remembered.The books follow the life of a "woodsy," Sayward Luckett Wheeler, who, in the latter part of the 18th century, carves a living along with her family in the deep forests of Ohio.
It's a quick read, and a good one.
excellent could barely put it down cant wait for book 3
During the time period of “The Fields,” which begins just before Ohio’s statehood is declared in 1803, Sayward -- married to the learned recluse Portius Wheeler at the conclusion of “The Trees” -- gives birth to eight children.
Her dress catches on fire."If she got to be a hundred years old, Sayward told herself, never without her voice breaking could she tell a stranger how it went with their little Sulie that day.
Did something tell her she had only a short while in this world, and that’s why she was always on the go, making up for it, cutting one dido after another?"Sayward’s brother Wyitt decides to surrender to his desire to become a full-time hunter.
Not as consistently well written as the first novel - this book strikes me as a strange blend of young adult sensibilities with much darker adult themes.
Again, the protagonist, Saywatd Wheeler is a great character, and this is still a very interesting glimpse of the early nineteenth century on the American frontier.
Still carving life out of the deep woods, this book takes the reader through time of the young farms carved between the "big butts", to the beginnings of an early river settlement town.
Some of this is familiar stuff, some intimately more revealing.
A dark version of "Little House."
I read The Trees a few years ago and loved it, and I loved this second book in the series as well. Captivating description of American frontier expansion during post Revolutionary War era. But don't let that scare you off, if you're not into that sort of thing. It's all wrapped up with great characters in a simple but compelling story. While the writing and plot can stand alone, I recommend reading these books in order so you don't miss some of the finer details. Looking forward to reading the third book now, too.
The second of Richter's trilogy about the settling of Ohio. Told in the local dialect, through the eyes of heroine Sayward Wheeler. Beautifully written historical fiction. Will read the third in this series soon. I can't believe I never heard of Conrad Richter until recently, and that these books are basically out of print! (They are readily available from used book sellers.) Reading always leads me to these hidden gems, making me wonder what other diamonds lay still unearthed in my reading future.
A wonderful sequel to the first story in the trilogy, Trees. The reader is carried forward in time as the ancient forest yields to the settlers' axes and "civilization" begans in the Ohio territory. A wonderful story.
I love the writing style. Very informative, great characterization of strong woman in early American settlement, AND enjoyable.
Nature is almost a enemy in this book, particularly the trees which get in the way of building homes and planting crops.
Sayward, woman who is the point of view in this book, looks forward to a time when the trees are beaten back and people can live civilized lives, not like the "savages" who they displaced with their colony.Now, of course, I have a different perspective.
When nature is in control, humans fight it.
I enjoyed looking through the eyes of his characters because he allows me to see things from their side.
I am really enjoying this trilogy. I love reading The Fields, feeling like I am there with all the families, changing the surrounding landscape, making isolated homesteads into a small community. Reading the book, I feel like I am there, watching the days unfold, feeling the changes. I am excited to start The Town.
2nd in the Awakening Land trilogy. Did not find it as good as the 1st. Seems to have little in the way of plot and only chronicles the lives of those who settle Ohio by making it their home as it morphs from an "improvement" to a village. Not engaging or interesting with many recurrences from the 1st but still an achievement in capturing the period it represents with authenticity.
Second book in Conrad Richter's trilogy. Without giving too much away, the land the Luckett family ended up settling on in book one is full of trees. As the years pass in book two, some of the trees are cleared to make acreage available for farming - thus, "The Fields". Plenty of background drama with Sayward and her family. Highly recommended for readers of historical fiction.
Enjoyed the second part of the trilogy more than the first. Early into The Fields I became attached to the characters - similar to a favorite tv show - where each chapter is an episode. Some chapters are better than others, but the second half of The Fields is great. Looking forward to finishing the trilogy.
Part two of the series. Not as impressing as part one, and some language (use of the n word for example) is hard to read around, but I will be reading part three.
Great story. I can picture vividly in my mind the house and family. Looking forward to the town.
Secondbook in series. So great!
I didn’t connect with this one as much as the first but still enjoyable. Except Portious. What a jerk. 😒
This is the second book of a series about the development of Ohio.
Along the way the story explores other dimensions of human existence such as: the effects of adultery on families; how people deal with inequality of wealth among neighbors; nostalgia for olden times by an older generation and the rebellion of younger people from their parents beliefs; the tendency of secrets to perniciously mold the lives of others and finally the difficulties children have with viewing their parents in an honest light.I only started reading these books because they are on a list I am trying to complete but I found myself pulled into the story completely from an early point.
As I expected, I found a few differences between the original and adapted plots as I was reading THE TREES; however, I was pleased that those changes did not cause either my affection for the TV mini-series or my respect for and enjoyment of the novel to change.
I mean, some of Conrad Richter's words were the same, but Sayward's reaffirmed love for Portius did not seem as passionate or as heartfelt as it was played out in the TV mini-series by Elizabeth Montgomery and Hal Holbrook.
Yet even Sayward's hardships weren't as engaging this time around, adding to my disappointment here (although admittedly, the character of Sayward herself is a strong, feminine role model, and I really have come to care for her quite a bit).So overall, The Fields gets a ho-hum review from me.
