https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30243.Seduced_by_Moonlight
Oh God, every time I read one of these I want to hit myself for the first chapter or three.
*smack* Why are you spending time on trashy supernatural romance?
They just paused during sex to have 5 pages of exposition, and they just paused in their murder investigation to have four chapters of sex!" *smacksmack SMACK*And then I succeed in turning my brain off and drink in a guilty mix of Mary Sue-esque magic, romance novel, and mongrel mythology.I can't really tell you what happens in this book.
I have to say, I love my Faerie Porn.
These books aren't good books, we're not talking high literature here.
But I enjoy the characters, I enjoy the settings and the sex is good.I think what I really enjoy is that it's rare to find erotica (especially multiple-partner erotica) that puts the woman in a position of power.
Not only is Merry in power over her men, she feels a responsibility for them equal to her elevated status.
Oh, there's plenty of using going on.
Sex for magic, sex for allies, sex for power, sex for saftey.
3.5! I love how those books follow approximately a day in the life of Merry, and she manages to bed many different men, slay her enemies, and advance the plot by just a trickle.......
Why is the princess doing all the menial labor with such shameless eagerness, like the men are doing her a favor by letting her taste?
Don't get me wrong, I love reading demented books as much as the next gal but having Merry anxious to please everyone like a love starved puppy is demeaning.Relationships are give and take.
3.5 (still not 4 though).I really like this series, I really really do! But I still can't give it more than 3stars... There are some inconsistencies, some stuff I don't really understand and some reactions that are a bit out of place.But I like that she's a badass, I love how she protects her people, but most of all I like that the story keeps me hooked up. So continue the series, it's a really nice book!
Games of politics and manipulation as Merry and her Merry Men attempt to placate paparazzi, Queen Andais, the goblins, the demi-fey, and even her hostess as they hunt for the traitors amongst them.They’re all still living in Maeve Reed’s home, and although Gordon has died, he will live on as a result of events in 
Her father, an Unseelie brother to Andais, Prince Essus, was murdered years ago; her mother, Besaba, is Seelie Court; you’ll understand how she hates her daughter when you realize that Seelie fae refer to Merry as Besaba’s Bane.Merry’s Merry Men include:Doyle is/was the Queen’s Darkness, her assassin for the past 1,000 years.
I love the way Merry insists on keeping "her" men safe.
This makes me love her in so many ways.
The circle talking got on my nerves at points but in the end it was a good book.
It tugged at the heart strings and of course her harem grew more.
I like reverse Harems but I can't stand when they get to big to the point of obscene.
I wonder who her end harem is going to be.
Minstrel now I just can't wait for his story and I quickly fell in love with Adair.
I love how the men looked out for each other.
still waiting for Doyle to surprise me...
This should have been accomplished in this book as it was part of this plot line, but no sounds like it's going to be its own book which would lead me to believe that there will be problems there.This one was crazy, but I've noticed quite a few similarities between Anita's books and Merry's it could be because LKH is the author, so I'm sure that's the reason.
There is a part where Merry talks about going down on a man, and if any of you have read Anita you know exactly what I mean because she mentions it about Jean Claude quite a bit.
This book bored me.I stopped reading it a month ago and ...blah.Will go back to it somedaaaaaaaay....Somedaaaaaaaaaay I'll wish upon a starAnd wake up where the clouds are farBehind me.Where troubles melt like lemon dropsAway above the chimney topsThat's where you'll find me.Somewheeeeeeeere over the rainbow.........Yeah,this is how much that volume keeps me focused.
The barely there plot, this book is not by any means a quickie but all that happened is, Merry again mirror talks with Goblin king, frets about upcoming visit to the seelie court, has sex and visits her aunt where she and her aunt are both nearly assassinated.
I was so confused buy the end of what member of the court has taken what bodily fluid from what sidhe and who owes what?Also I don't like how the sex feels mechanical and is later dissected and pulled apart and discussed.....I will carry on as the parts I liked I loved...Like I said, this is a marmite book......
I still have no fucking clue what’s going on.. after 3 books I’m still at a loss. I understand the basics. But for the most part I’m just like wtf just happened. All the characters are moody AF. Also Merry explains every single thing she does in way too much detail. Meh
I do find the actual plot interesting, when there is no sex, and it has to do with the Fae's politics.The porn is both boring and squicky (for some at least.
I mean Merry makes out with her Aunt Anadais, but LKH states over and over that the Faes sexual taboos are different than humans'.
There are also lots of different humanoid creature sex).There was also some gay-for-play f/f, but there was too much male gaze before and after for my liking.
Porn should never get boring.Merry keeps developing more powers for herself, her harem, and a few special people.
I hope that somewhere, she has a big chart to keep track of it all, but after three books, I don't feel like she does.
I can't help but feel there is something wrong and kind of annoying when the literally thousands of years of collective wisdom and life experience of, on average, 7 immortal characters are constantly being bested by just one 30 year old woman.
Maybe Merry is the savior of her people, but I don't much like to think that no one has any value beyond their miliatary prowess anymore.
Sex...filler...sex...filler...sex...DUEL...sex...end.This was a let down from the other two stories in the series.
In the two previous books there was actual plot.
And Merry's life arc is coming perilously close to Anita's as she takes more people under her wing each book and gains bright new and shiny powers each book.Fine we know the Fey are very open about sex.
Let everyone have sex!
Just also let there be some kind of story that makes it worth my while.
There was so much good set up in the previous books that this one sadly wastes.
it got better at the end when Merry and the guys went back to faerie.
i'm anxious to see if Merry is immortal now.
i think so.
he's starting to really show some emotions (to Merry).
and i think i'll be soft on Adair.
he reminds me of Nate (fav) in the Anita Blake series with his vulnerability, but he's also got some fighting skills.
oh yeah, the scene with Merry healing all the guys was awesome.
he's also a fav of mine so i wouldn't want that to happen to him.
Merry would definitely be better.
The first several novels in the Anita Blake series are great.
As you read each book, you can really see the character development as Anita becomes more sure of herself and more comfortable with the "monsters".
However, some the later books have deteriorated into little more than soft porn for women.
However, I feel it cheapens the series, which features a great role model in Anita as a women who has accepted that her life works the way it is and makes her happy, even it is not what the rest of the world thinks is normal.
The Good: The chalice appears and boosts the series into overdrive.
The power the chalice can give or return to a Sidhe significantly raises the stakes for Merry and is the stat of a long-running subplot in the series.
Seduced by Moonlight is when things change in the series, when the pace of the books increases greatly.
Now, not only does Merry have to get pregnant to gain the throne and protect herself from Cel, she also has to act as the vessel of the goddess to bring all of faerie back into their rightful power.
These books are almost impossible to put down.The Bad: Not a thing.
I gave this one 3 stars because there was too much minutiae and not enough action. I found myself skimming some of the narrative to get to the good parts. I still really like this series and hope it picks back up in the next book.
It's getting more interesting... also, how the hell with she sleep with all of them?
You may (or you may not, especially if you've read any of these books) be shocked to find out that this chalice is an incredibly powerful magical goddess' artifact that acts as a sort of amplifier for Merry's already ludicrous abilities to renew her suitors' magical powers and godhead through sex.
This is where I nearly dropped the novel.I kept at it, though, and the last hundred pages or so were fairly cool, full of fae intrigue and brutal combat that leaves the floors and Merry quite literally coated with blood.
Last 100 pages: 3 stars, for a grand total of 2.Will I continue with this series?
From the beginning of the book to the end the writer takes you a little farther in time (3 days?) and repeats herself multiple times.
I have read books that the plot plays out in a short amount of time, but Ms. Hamilton was writing minute by minute.
I know that people walking into a situation in real life need to be brought up to speed, but as a reader we don't want a repeat 3 times or the same thing to play out down the hall that had just happened minutes ago.
Please Ms. Hamilton more plot less sex.
Oh come on now.) And of course Merry is still the Mary-Sue perfect-not-that-she'll-ever-admit-it character, gorgeous and desirable and obviously the magical savior of her entire race, but still hated by just about every person IN that race.
But Merry IS likable, especially in the way that she'll jump in to protect someone, even when that person doesn't particularly like HER.
She's won at least one new lover this way in this book, possibly four.
Sometimes you have to wonder why Hamilton turns out so much treacle when she's capable of making you laugh by mashing together the fantastical and archaic with the everyday.
You would think that you would get sick of Merry adding more men but you don't...well, I didn't.
Of course, people are still trying to kill Merry so between that and all the changes, it is not boring!
There is still the ongoing "discussions" but you have to be careful not to miss the important things.
I think the only thing that is distracting is always trying to figure out which guard Merry loves more or who is going to get her pregnant and what will happen with the rest of the guards.
I am the first to jump in line when it comes to Hamilton's Anita Blake series, but for some reason, this series just doesn't do it for me.
This is the second time I've tried to get into the Merry Gentry series and the writing just isn't working for me.
Generally I love Hamilton's style, her attitude, all the action and gore...but I find this series boring and monotonous.
The first book was ok...but since then it's just Merry droning on in endless conversations about the fae courts and what's good and what's bad and bla bla bla.
I dunno.
Same problem here as with the Anita Blake novels. The story is okay but the sex interferes and the heroine gets a new power with every boffing. Tedious. Would be more enjoyable if the sex was kept to a minimum and the heroine had some faults and some limitations to her powers. I like characters that win because they overcome their limitations not just develop a new skill just in time to save the day. It's a cop out. Hamilton lacks imagination.
"How can one mortal woman satisfy the lusts of sixteen immortal sidhe?" How indeed. I guess this means I need to read the next book to find out how I can learn from Merry and satisfy so many men.
I love all the men in Merry's life, but I can't stand the way that she just tosses sex out there as casually as she is.
She sleeps with all of her original guards, and that isn't so bad to me because it's like they're all in a relationship.
But then she just offers to have sex with all the goblins and all the other guardsman and it just...really bothers me.
Like sex isn't something that should just be thrown around.
I love the characters in the story, I love the relationships between the characters, I just hate how Merry sleeps with every guy that comes along it seems.
Queen Andais is giving all her attention to getting Meredith pregnant. She's determined to get Meredith to sleep with as many guards as possible while Prince Cel is imprisoned. Meanwhile, enemies are popping up everywhere and doing their best to kill Merry before the Unseelie Court has a truly mortal heir.
Stomach turning...I made it through the tentacle horror in book 1, the Kitto sex in book 2 and the overly detailed descriptions of the Goblin king.
I didn't think it could get worse.
I was wrong.
Kitto's former master?
That was just not fair, lol.
I read a lot of reviews and no one warned me about Kitto's master.
I was close to having my dinner reappear.This is erotica but the sex out paced the plot by a WIDE margin and was not in any way appealing.
And on a personal note, while I should have known better, the f/f was another surprise to be skipped.
