https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22649.Bookends
The pink binding on this bad boy bought me some awkward stares, but that didn't stop me from reading Jane Green's tale of a slightly overweight and unattractive woman in her mid thirties who finally finds the perfect romance, and fullfills her lifelong dream of opening a bookshop.
Something about Green's conversational writing style and her incorporation of curse words make the experience of reading this "Chick-Book" more like watching a "Chick-Flick." Despite the real tear-jerking paragraphs about her break ups and her homosexual friend's diagnosis with HIV, this novel is to say the very least, enjoyable.
I think the main issue I had was that the re-read was a bit of a bust.
The main character of Cath just reads as a doormat throughout this book and I just wanted her to be stronger and push back on people more.
The book just ends up taking too many things on and not doing them well.If the above isn't enough, we also have Cath trying to open a bookstore.
The writing is typical older Green (when she wrote her chick lit books taking place in London).
I like this author, but this was a forgettable book.
In fact I was halfway through reading it when I realized I had actually read it before and forgotten.The characters are sterotypes (resolutely single girl with gay best friend and happily married couple), the set up lengthy (lots of back story, some not ever relevant), the description of university days common (we dated, we drank, we went places).The novel is dated too.
This is set back when HIV was a new big thing- and people wouldn't touch those diagnosed.
But it isn't a good enough book to give a historical glimpse.
I'll have to write elsewhere about Chick Lit Protagonist Syndrome, but suffice it to say that they're almost universally wildly codependent, with very little self-knowledge, compulsive emotional eating, no idea whether the guy really likes them even if he comes in with "I Really Like You, Protagonist" tattooed on his forehead, and deep shame about themselves and especially their bodies (which are always telegraphed as very very beautiful despite what the protagonist thinks).
That is, Green is trying to write the story from the perspective of an omniscient narrator, but puts her in the body of a specific character who couldn't know all this stuff and isn't the right vehicle for it.
I'm not criticising them for pursuing social mobility, but when every character has a "glamorous" job, I'm calling amateur hour.That impression is only reinforced by the only two gay men in the book: one is textbook camp and the straight white lead's best friend, and the other is an abusive asshole.
The first thing that smacked me in the face was her slut-shaming Ingrid, her friends' young, slim, haughty au pair who dresses up for a party and is seen leaving with James, the Designated Love Interest.
Cath has bigger problems: getting furious at her other friend, the lovely homey Lucy, for not chivvying her love life along.
Este ha sido un libro que apenas he disfrutado. Las primeras cien paginas se me hicieron eternas y el resto del libro, aunque cogio ritmo, no termino de convencerme.http://mibibliotecaromantica.blogspot...
I'm a big believer in writing that shows the emotions and dynamics of relationships rather than telling the reader, "He felt sad." etc.
But rather than using an effective prologue or flash-back, she tells the reader about the personalities and relationships of the characters.
She gets a bit better with showing characterization as the book progresses, but she doesn't seem to trust her ability to convey fully characters feelings, so she tells us too, so the narrative quickly becomes repetitious and boring.
But even trying to overlook the dated feel could just not get me to like the book.
Thought I found a new author to read, being the author of many best sellers.
To me the story and writing were just a bit off, for lack of a better word.
Too sitcom-y (which the author actually admits to as part of the plot has the characters lives potrayed in a sitcom).
I read in 2 days, but I had to actually force myself to read.
I wanted it done and I wanted to have read a book on vacation.
I actually found myself watching "How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days" for the 10th time, instead of reading.
I stayed up to finish this book because towards the middle I reaaaaaallly fell in love with it.
I loved it!
It starts off slow and it's one of those books that can be easily forgotten, but when given a chance you realize there is a great story being told.
I don't read books twice, but I kind of have this urge to start from the beginning and read it all over.
Although the book starts off slow and isn't immediately interesting, the characters are and you fall in love with the ongoings of their lives til the very end.
Now that I found it and loved it I feel happy.Basically, this book got it all.
Even though it's told from Catherine's POV but the sub-plots of the others were as engaging as the main story.
I felt emotionally attached to this book til the very end.
I felt jealous of them (yeah!
I also liked the writing.
Many things are happening which made it even harder to put down.What I liked more particularly is Catherine.
I felt a certain degree of fondness for her.
She was caring and emotionally stable without overdoing it.
I found myself really enjoying her story more than I thought I would.
Aww, this book was really sad at times. I liked this book. It was enjoyable. But maybe there was a Little bit too much drama, in my opinion.
It's mostly fluff but the author tries to make it more 'meaty' by introducing heavier topics: having a character get an HIV diagnosis; having another involved in an extra marital affair (supposedly); and having another who just can't commit to a loving relationship because she might get hurt (eye roll here).
I guessed the HIV diagnosis way before it came up in the story; I guessed the bi-sexual bent of another character early on, and I got bored with the juvenile angst of Cath.
Nevertheless, I doggedly read to the predictable, anti-climatic end - a waste of valuable time.
Humorous, Dramatic and with some Romance thrown in as well.The book starts out with Cath in college making a new group of friends.
Portia is Cath's best friend among the group, the rest are boys, she actually is more like a sister, a soul mate if you will.
As college ends Cath remains friends with Josh and Si as they all turn their back on Portia.
It is now 10 years later and Cath is still friends with Josh and Si. Her life revolves around work and her college pals.
But life does change and pretty drastically after Cath and Si meet one of Lucy's fellow classmates.
HATS OFF TO JANE GREEN FOR WRITING BOOKENDS, LOVED IT!
I enjoy Jane Green’s brand of British Chick Lit. Bookends is a story of friendship.
Catherine Warner has great friends; Simon and the happily married Josh and Lucy.
While Simon and Cath are both on the lookout for the perfect man, Josh and Lucy seem to have the perfect marriage until a long lost college friend, the beautiful Portia arrives back in their lives.
Soon Cath suspects Josh may be having an affair with Portia and then later suspects josh having an affair with their au pair.
I enjoyed this book and the complicated web of friendship and love.
I have always loved books about books and bookstores. Bookends however was a disappointment for me. The flashback alone took up the first 5-10 chapters and story was a smorgasbord of everything, life, love, friends, family, business... It felt like a whole season of Friends in a novel.On hindsight, hence the 1 star, growing old with college friends can be amazing. A family by choice, friends who knew you when you were a nobody can keep you grounded. :)
Fun to read with a tear at the end! But nothing special :)
people who like fluffy chick lit that isn't too badly written with decent characters, not amazing, but decent, would like this book.
Bookends is about a group of friends who bond during university and, except for one of them (Portia), continue to stay close ten years later.
When the rich and now famous Portia re-enters their lives, they doubt her motives, especially when their lives start to unravel at the same time.This was simply a lovely book!
The kind you don't want to end because the characters have become your best friends!
This is the first book I've read by Jane Green, and from the professional reviews, I gather her previous books received greater acclaim.
I loved reading about these characters and seeing their interactions with each other.
A lovely book!
This was a bit more than chick lit but light enough to be an easy read. This was an populated by great characters and featured a bookstore/cafe so I was happy from the get go. Will have to check out more titles by this author
Such a great book will be reading more of books by her for sure
This...story...was...so...slow! Several times I found myself questioning, where are we going with this.
A bit of a slow start, and I guessed some major things along the way, but still an enjoyable read that pulled me in the more I read!
És entretingut, divertit per passar una estona agradable. Tracta temes seriosos, sí, però barrejats amb vida quotidiana. M'ha recordat a la sèrie "Friends"
Aku membayangkannya sebagai tempat yang akan memikat pengunjung rutin, orang-orang eksentrik yang menarik, yang mau membuatkan cappuccino jika aku butuh bantuan.Untuk sampai pada dua paragraf di atas, saya harus membaca 84 halaman dulu dari novel chiklit Bookends karya Jane Green ini.
Oya, dan saya sedikit lebih tua disbanding gadis Inggris ini.Seperti Cath, saya pun memiliki impian suatu hari nanti bisa punya toko buku sendiri yang menyatu dengan sebuah kafe.
Mereka baru bertemu lagi saat pembukaan Bookends, nama yang diberikan untuk toko buku Cath itu.Sudah lama sekali rasanya saya tidak membaca novel-novel chiklit.
Meh.Not really my cup of tea (but enthusiastically foisted upon me by someone who meant well, and whose taste in books I will never fully trust again).
I gritted my teeth and persevered, but not without being hyper aware the entire time that I was reading words that someone made up and wrote down.
I never reached that sense of immersion where the story takes on a life of its own, and the characters become real, actual people.On the upside, the pacing - when it got going - was very good.
Her reappearance soon unleashes a rollicking series of events that tests the foursome’s friendships to the limit and leaves them wondering if a happy ending is in store.Fortunately, Cath has plenty to take her mind off Portia’s schemes — like her gutsy decision to leave her job in advertising to fulfill her dream of opening a bookstore.
Undoubtably at the end, I would have NEVER had Cath behave any other way than to blow off James, but prior to that moment (and if you read the book, you will certainly know which moment I am referring to), I still felt Si was a bit in the way.
And the day after she broke with him .Until then the group slip .oh I should say they slip from Portia .About 10 years after while they are all settle in live, with great jobs, some are still in contact : Josh is now married to the wonderful Lucy, Cath is still single and Si tries to find the perfect Man .They are all inseparable.Cath is still thinking of Portia and discovered while reading the newspapers that she has succeed In life.
The good aspects of the book makes me wish I could rate this a tad higher, but it couldn't hold me to the end.
Actually, that may have been one of the weaknesses, that the first person voice wasn't the best way to tell the story of this group of friends.
And too often--which is also too often a danger of a weak first person--too much is told, not shown, sometimes dragging, sometimes running through events without developing so that pacing was also a problem.
A good light airplane/beach read if you're drawn to chicklit, but nothing here makes me want to try more of the author.
However, this book is more about Cath's relationship with her friends that did stick around like Si her best male gay friend, Lucy (a mother-hen type) and Josh (who may or may not be having an affair).
Throw in a potential relationship with a real estate agent and Cath's ambition to run a small bookshop and you have all the lines of plot in this book.
So, the writing isn't terrible.
Told in first person, Cath isn't an unlikable character, she genuinely cares about her friends, but still stumbles and doesn't make all the right choices.
I like that Ms. Green creates characters that come off as real - they aren't little stick figure girls who live a life you can't imagine living..
like when Lucy talks she is a little annoying, "the lovely James" "young James" "Cath, my love" it's a little over the top.
And the last 100 pages of the book were EXTREMELY depressing.
I don't think it was meant to be so depressing, but it was, and I didn't like that.I would still give this book 4 stars, however, because all in all I really enjoyed reading it and am glad I chose it.
