https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2314273.Counter_Attack_and_Other_Poems
Undoubtedly the most subversive, seditious, and traitorous batch of anti-war Western poems I have ever read, and every damn word of them is true. These are personal and universal poems. It would do no good to have our "leaders" read them. Not one word nor image would resonate with them: we are here to do their bidding, and nothing else. The Neo-cons are happy Americans are dying .....so their companies can prosper in the war. "Hallelujah, and Praise the Lord. It is not torture when WE do it." Just ask them.
I think everyone has an idea of what "First World War poetry" means, given its place in the cultural canon, and Sassoon exemplifies a lot of that: grim depictions of violence and terror, homesickness, incompetent leadership.
I wasn't expecting the poems that so strongly condemn the complacency of society at large, though: one particular poem, "Song-Books Of the War", predicts a naive nostalgia for the "dazzling times when sacrifice absolved our earth".
Which, as a prediction, is evergreen.
It's easy to see why poetry like Sassoon's had such a big impact.
Enjoyed reading these works from Siegfried Sassoon, I find him particularly realistic in his writing, and through his poetry takes the reader to the horror, futility and stupidity of war and all it's destructions.
I've been reading Sassoon's trilogy, which lay out in prose his life before, during and after the war. This is the volume of poems he published after the war was over. It's short - took maybe 20 minutes to read the whole thing - and devastatingly good.
So far I read only In Stahlgewittern by Ernst Jünger and Im Westen nichts Neues by Erich Maria Remarque that use World War I as central theme.
I was surprised by its impact and strength letting the horrible images of this war unfold in the reader's mind.
My astonishment grew further when I read in the introduction that Sassoon pre-war poetry was centred around the praise of nature.
Apparently the soldiers loved Sassoon's poems because he gave words to the horrors that they experienced every day.
A horror that the reader still can feel one hundred years later.
Sassoon was a talented poet (and writer) whose vivid and intelligent imagination manages to capture the essence of the words and sounds he encountered during his war in a way that can be called beautiful.
One reading of some of these poems is not enough, you need to savour them to truly take them in, you need to understand Sassoon better.
A truly amazing collection of a truly horrific time.
My favourites in this collection were: 'To Any Dead Officer', 'Suicide in the Trenches', 'Does it Matter?', 'The Fathers', 'Twelve Months After' and 'The Effect'.
I have read about Sassoon. A fascinating man - brave in war and brave to confront society's expectations for soldiers to go to war and come back and be quiet.I find poetry hard to read but this collection resonated with me. Imagery, the conflicts of men at war and at peace and the damage to the minds and bodies are all covered. Sassoon's poems are as good as any to describe the indescribable.
I started to read it because one of the poems, The Kiss, was used in the Youtube channel The Great War. The poems which maybe touch me most is Song-Books of the War:"And dream of lads who fought in France And lived in time to share the fun."
Sassoon captures the utter horror and lack of glamor in war. He evokes the bitter reality of the men who have had their nerves shattered, lives tarnished and lost friends, and that of those who weren't so lucky...I thought the best were "The Glory of Women" and "Suicide in the Trenches", but there were many good ones.
Bitter and beautiful. Sassoon was one of the finest ever war poets (even if he didn't particularly appreciate the label) and two of my favourites are in this collection; 'Survivors' and 'To Any Dead Officer'.
