https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/150736.The_Night_of_January_16th
Yes, I read Ayn Rand.
The entire drama takes place in the courtroom, trying to determine who killed Bjorn Faulkner who had swindled millions from investors by investing money he did not actually possess.
His mistress, Karen Andre, is on trial for the possible murder of Faulkner.What sets the play apart is that 12 members of the audience is to be called from the audience to be jury members for the play unfolding.
There are two slightly different endings which are performed based on the decision given by the audience-jury.
It seems a lot of high schools have performed this over the years which makes me yet again wonder what was wrong with my own high school.
Defendant is victim’s mistress, also his employee.
(I know, right?) Every text “is the product and expression of its author’s sense of life translated into conceptual, i.e., philosophical terms, or it may express only an abstract emotional sum.” This one happens to be “pure, untranslated abstraction” (id.), whatever the hell that means.
(Yes, it’s that kind of stupid.) It hits the nadir when unsavory historical capitalist is brought low for “his venture into politics--mixed-economy politics” (4).
I came across it a few weeks ago in the used book store and decided to pick it up because I've been wanting to incorporate more plays into my reading.
The only other Rand I've read is Anthem, which I enjoyed.
This is an entertaining play to read, and I'd love to be able to find and attend it.
instead of any real crime investigation the jurors have to take the word of one known criminal or another, so it's a little absurd in that aspect.
Read nothing, absolutely NOTHING like this before.
I can’t get past Rand’s stunted development: a woman who so worships power in a man that she not only condones the criminal disregard of laws and the feelings of others—including rape!—she endorses these actions, pointing them out as indications that this kind of person excels above others.
He is a God. He IS John Galt.It’s no wonder that her writings are revered by the far right, for her philosophy justifies the heartless treatment of those with less power.
Despite her firsthand experience of Stalinist Russia and her hatred of Communism, none of her writings point out the obvious fact that power corrupts.
A well structured courtroom drama with enough twists and turns to keep the reading turning pages. The gimmick of the audience being the jury and deciding the outcome of the play is fun but ultimately kind of disappointing because neither ending is much different given that the possible endings are about 3 lines long. An Ayn Rand read would usually invite some philosophical discussion but this early work seems to be rather surface compared to some of her more well known pieces of literature.
The play takes place in the courtroom, where Karen Andre is on trial for the murder of Bjorn Faulkner.
For me, the reader becomes a jury member upon choosing to read the play.
The author provides two different climaxes based on the decision of the jury.In this play, I positioned myself as Karen Andre and not as Faulkner.
Reading the play was special to me, because Ayn Rand directly speaks with you.
The trial is ‘the State of New York against Karen Andre where the latter is charged for a murder of Bjorn Faulkner’.
I was so excited when I heard about this book because I had no idea Ayn Rand wrote any other fiction other than the most famous ones - We the Living, Anthem, The Fountainhead and Atlas Shrugged.
I felt like this book would have been better as a full length read than a play however if it was actually staged, it would be fun to see the reaction and the verdict given by the jury members.
I am not sure the audience would see Faulkner as Rand wanted us to see him.
But I don't think Rand wanted it to be that way.
I think she wanted us to judge the characters and their way of life and living.
I have both read this play and seen it performed.
This is an exciting play to see performed because the drama incorporates the audience in the trial scene.
Ayn Rand disagreed with a number of changes made by the Broadway producer and in amateur versions of the play, so in 1968 she re-edited the script for publication as the "definitive" version.
The play deals with issues of a man's ability to regard oneself as important and exist in a society where moral decay is ever prevalent.
The effective dramatic presentation of these issues makes the play a success.
That's our only proof."Great play - the ideology is not as well developed as in Anthem or the Fountainhead, but I'm pretty sure that this is Ayn Rand's first published book/play.
This play serves to ask many great questions - who makes the law and to whom does it apply?
Are people who make certain self-serving choices absolutely untrustworthy?
The point is not to answer these questions, but to let the reader decide who is and isn't guilty.This play presents testimonies, and it is up to the reader to determine who is and who isn't credible - thus the two endings, neither necessarily "more correct" than the other.
Her characters (intentionally) tend to both be flat and non-flat; the bad are comic-book-bad and the good are textbook-good by her philosophy, where virtue consists of being consistent with one's values and constantly rationally examining the world around oneself.
I'm very attracted to the "hardness" of her good characters (there's a lot to be taken away from even partially formed or partially attractive) ideas, and there's some pretty interesting imagery (like Karen Andre's platinum-knit dress that when heated would form to the shape of her body).
Is this a good book?
Is it an interesting world to visit?
THE NIGHT OF JANUARY 16TH is an entertaining enough play, but I only connected with it on the most superficial of levels.
I like Ayn Rand a lot, and I've read most of her work, but this is the first time I've been repulsed by the philosophical overtones of one of her stories.
The play ends differently depending on whether or not they find the main character guilty of murder.
I find this a really neat idea, but I don't think Rand executes it properly.
Definitely one of Rand's weakest efforts.
old school. this was of interest because of it's ending (a choose your own adventure involving having 12 audience members get up on stage to participate and render a verdict in a trial. this verdict sets in motion one of two possible endings).
Excellent play! Would love to perform/direct this. Interesting - even 60+ years after it was first produced.
This play is definitely improved by seeing it performed live. Reading it: 3 stars. Watching it on stage: 4 stars!
Her commentary on the play is something I have to describe as "fake deep." Other than her complete disdain for anything resembling socialism, the fact that her weird statement about how this play is "symbolic" did not line up with the play's style and presentation, which honestly read somewhat like a courtroom melodrama (something which Rand apparently believed she avoided entirely, according to the intro), was what made me decide that I could not take her seriously in any way, shape, or form.Again, I did enjoy the play.
I think it's a quick, fun read that anyone can enjoy.
I must say, this is the best play I read in my life.
Bjorn Faulkner, Karen Andre and Lawrence Regan took my breath away.
Ayn Rand as always knows exactly what kind of men are needed in today's world.
They both were fearless, they get what they want, they rule the world and when it comes to love, they give everything.
Karen's love and devotion for Faulkner is beyond words.
I'm always amazed at the kind of main male characters that Ayn Rand designs in her books.
She is the hero.Read my review blog https://theclippednightingale.wordpre....
La notte del 16 gennaio è pièce che costringe il pubblico (o il lettore, nel caso del libro) ad interrogarsi sul "senso-della-vita", ossia sulla valutazione emotiva, subconscia, del modo in cui egli si rapporta con l'esistenza.Ayn Rand contrappone due opposti modi di affrontare l'esistenza, descritti da lei stessa nell'introduzione: “l'appassionata autoaffermazione, la fiducia in se stessi, l'ambizione, l'audacia, l'indipendenza contro la convenzionalità, il servilismo, l'invidia, l'odio, la sete di potere.”L'opera consiste in un processo per omicidio senza verdetto predefinito.
In realtà, è quindi il pubblico ad essere sottoposto a giudizio.
Voi stessi, signore e signori della giuria, sarete oggetto del vostro giudizio.
Un juicio que se desarrolla a lo largo de dos días en el que una mujer es acusada de asesinar a su jefe y amante.
No esperéis final triste, no esperéis un final feliz: el final lo decide el público.Doce personas suben al escenario para funcionar de jurado popular y son ellas las que deciden el final de la obra.
Eso sí, aquí la única gente juzgada es el propio jurado porque salga el fallo que salga, la gente ha de posicionarse.
Pese a la carga moral, propia de Ayn Rand, el caso es bastante interesante y se deja leer con una facilidad pasmosa.Who is on trial in this case?
The play revolves around death of a businessman. It will help if you are aware of Ayn Rand's philosophy of Objectivism, her classic characters of Howard Roark, Francisco D'anconia. Only thing very different about this play is the "jury gig" (read the book to understand)The courtroom drama gives you flavours of psychological manipulation practiced by lawyers.One thing I realised while reading this play, that every lawyer should see himself as a director & has to put up a well directed (scripted & timed) show in order to persuade jury!
I got hooked by the preface by Ayn Rand. The idea of audience participating in the performance and making a judgement is awesome. But while reading, maybe due to familiarity with other Rand's works, the idea was pretty much clear. So the originally anticipated effect became diluted. There are a couple of twists, though, that make things more dramatic and, thus, characters are more polarized because of the decisions they have to make.
I'd never read anything by Ayn Rand, this book was about to hit the recycling bin, and it is short.... It was an okay read, but strange how a woman adored her rapist (she was raped during her job interview when she met him), and I'm not sure about the accuracy of the courtroom proceedings, and the story overall was improbable. Apparently her suppositions about human nature are supposed to support the beliefs behind her other books....wow.
It was fantastic. I loved the info in beginning about Night Of January 16th being turned into plays & movie. And Ayn Rand's thoughts about the book. It was a real page turner. It reminded me of a soap opera, Perry Mason type stuff, & Agatha Christie. It was genius of Ayn to not reveal the verdict.
The only interesting thing about this play is the fact that the audience plays the role of the jury in the end and that, of course, cannot save the whole work from being dull and poorly written.
Letto in italiano. La trama è banale ed è stata sviluppata in modo inadeguato. La Rand ha scritto di meglio.
Not guilty.
-this is a sense of life play, Ayn Rand insists-a quick read to get the gist-However, momentary periods of contemplation were necessary for me because this is a crime thriller-Understanding the characters' testimonies was one psychological exercise after another -I enjoyed Rand's writing in this edition where she made her final changes-THE READER/ AUDIENCE gets to decide which ending (of 2) is more convincing to them, or suits their own personal beliefs
I doubt if anybody knows about Ayn Rand as a playwright. Well, this book surprised me when Ayn Rand wrote two endings to this courtroom drama depending upon how the jury pronounced the verdict. Read the play to know about the jury
It’s an exercise in recognizing that’s how we all go through life, making judgment calls based on personal experience and perspective, and that facts often have little to do with it.
Still, this play was written in 1933 and in that regard Rand can only be seen as a product of her times, before it was recognized that women can like sex and -- heaven forbid -- can decide they like it all by themselves.I was expecting a lot more out of the two alternate endings, along the lines of what was done with the movie Clue.
The play calls for audience participation, and I can imagine that could be a lot of fun.
Members of the audience are empaneled as the jury and in the end vote on the guilt or innocence of the accused.
I think it's obvious knowing Rand she'd vote for acquittal.
Rand says in the introduction she tried to weigh the evidence in such a way that you could go either way on guilt or innocence so what would come into play are your own values and prejudices.
