https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11454870-plotto
I didn’t ask her to do any of this and seriously, do you think I want to be locked in this fucking basement?
I never really told her why I was going to kill myself, not because it was some big fucking secret, but it was the only thing I could think of doing that would irritated her, and I was more than a little put-out being a prisoner here in a basement.
I didn’t think it was so important though to ask her if she was already married, I thought it was a safe bet that someone who took someone prisoner and kept them in their basement probably wasn’t already spoken for.
Not really sure how to review this, but it was fascinating to study. I wonder how many of the plots hold up for modern writers of literary fiction, which belongs to the antihero rather than the hero. If you get a chance to read through it, go for it: it's fascinating.
I frequently browse through Plotto though I haven't felt the need yet to copy one of its schemes for a plot of my own.
This is surprising given that I find plotting difficult and cumbersome...it's almost an affectation with me and, as I know, with other writers of "literary" fiction, too.
Unfortunately, "literary" means all too often that the story doesn't meet John Gardner's brilliantly conceived criterion of story as a " vivid and continuous dream" in the reader's mind...Plotto makes plot seem if not easy but at least doable, it takes away some of the mystery and replaces it by craft.
It's very logic-based.For newer fiction writers, or even nonfiction writers whose work involves the telling of a story--such as biographers or fund development writers--read the instruction lessons at the back of the book, and practice until it becomes second nature.
Obviously, nonfiction writers can't craft the story's events as they wish, but it will provide the framework in which to think about how you approach the story.If you're a mature fiction writer, you've already established--through years of practice--a sixth sense for the book's contents, in which case it will serve as an invaluable resource for inspiration to help you generate ideas or get unstuck.
For example if the situation is ‘dies while on the way to make a new will’ then grandfather of protagonist might fit better.So plot #1 is: 1: (a) (112) (117) (148) (656) A, poor, is in love with wealthy and aristocratic B* A, poor, in love with wealthy B, pretends to be a man of wealth * (187) (28) (23) (347a)And #1462 is: 1462: (1) Confronting a Situation in Which Courage and Devotion Alone Can Save the Fortunes of One Beloved 1462 (85a; 340) (540; 589)B's friend, B-2, makes an important revelation regarding A which causes B to correct a serious error (94a) (506a) (546b)It’s not exactly a random generator; you choose options from within each category.But each of the numbers in brackets is a suggested different option.
It's a pulp writer's book from 1928 of how to string plots together via flow charts.
It's a bit like choose your own adventure for writers...or like Polti's 36 Dramatic Situations on steroids.
The concepts are dated and the plot complications are highly dependent upon coincidence and accident, which is weak.
Characters' choices/actions should cause plots to develop, not pianos falling from the sky or packages mis-delivered.
Excellent book, a classic to understand the gist of what goes into a plot.
It helps if you have an understanding of math (algebra) but it's not completely necessary.
I have read many books on the subject and this is pretty much the granddaddy of them all.My only complaint is that it is very difficult to understand, let alone to master.
It definitely takes time.
If you can download the pdf with the instructions on how to use it, all the better.Another book, Plots Unlimited, is pretty much a variant of this book.
It's a little easier to understand.
I'm not sure how to review this.
The plot points and situations are dated, though could be modified to suite modern sensibilities.
If you're truly blocked, it might kick start some ideas.
Whether or not they're good ideas will be up to you.The 'dust cover' is a thin strip of paper that is extremely unwieldy.
One could use it as an improvised book mark, I suppose.At best, this book is a curiosity that you can cull some decent situations out of; at worst, you'll find it filler for the donation bin.
I enjoy the concept presented by it. It reminds me of something else I read by Stephen King where the plots are determined by a spinner (similar to that used in the game Twister).However, it's still not something I'd use - and I gave that serious thought. On the other hand, it may come in handy sometime as a "writing prompt".I gave it four stars because I know others have found it useful, and I've seen the results of that use. Alfred Hitchcock used it, according to some reports. Who would I be to question a master?
That this Borgesian creation exists at all is madness.
Complicated. And these plot ideas should be inspiring to me, but something about this system just isn't.
This classic story structure how-to is, at the least, a fascinating insight into one prolific writer's creative process. Originality, Cook insists, is the aim of his method and so the "plot suggestions", which make up the majority of this book, are meant as prods to the imagination, rather than to be used literally. The complex notation is likely to seem too cold or calculating for many, but there can be no denying that Cook understands the importance of conflict in story and how to create it.
I know it's around here somewhere, as I can recall seeing it, but have no idea where it might be at the moment. Apparently, it's been re-released by Tin House and old original copies are going for a pretty penny. Maybe I should make a serious effort at finding my copy (which was probably purchased by my paternal grandmother).
An incredible amount of work went into this. Reading through it is like getting hit with every story ever written in a blur.As for the system itself, it's straightforward to understand if you go through the tutorial section at the end of the book.
I LOVE THIS BOOK! It breaks down writing stories into a formula. A little from here, a little from there, and voila! I can't wait to get writing! Also fascinating to read because I recognize many books and film plot lines.
Hahahaha! The preface of the book mentions that Cook was referred to as the man who deforested Canada. Because he churned out so many works of fiction.This is it, boys. This is the Owner's Manual to the Fiction Factory.
A reference manual to turn to here-and-there with starting points for types of stories & conflicts
This was a pretty good casual read. :)
A valuable brainstorming resource. Would be better to have it in physical form instead of digital form, just for leafing through. A good idea-generating read.
Found on http://anynewbooks.com/staff-picks/ Waiting to see if it shows up in any other reviews -- sounds interesting, but could easily be done in a bad way.
This is an interesting book...it offers structured suggestions on how to outline a plot. It also provides exercises and examples.
A great way to get your next creative writing project going. Also gets you through those plot stalls that have a tendency to wreak havoc.
