https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32497573-everyone-s-a-aliebn-when-ur-a-aliebn-too
this was delightful

Guys, this is 3 1/2 star, because I have to say: read this.
It's like philosophy meets self help meets a whole lot of puns.
Honestly, after what happened last week, this kind of short book was exactly what the fuck I needed - Aliebn is a super short, super easy read that’s also incredibly positive.
The tone is this strange mix of nihilism and optimism that totally works, and though the book remains super light, it doesn't stray from dark stuff.
I honestly feel like all my faith in humanity was saved by this one, singular book, because holy CRAP.
Cannot recommend enough.Also, PUNS:Blog | Goodreads | Twitter | Youtube
This book is like some sort of strange mashup of self help, graphic novel, and philosophy text all mushed into one. Highly enjoyed!
literally the most precious book in the world
Um... not my style.Just some random motivational/ironic quotes with simple drawings that's sorta supposed to be inspiring I guess..?
Can I give this 10 stars out of 5?? This is a lovely graphic novel full of complex life truths shared in the simplest of ways. Will be rereading in the future whenever I need an energy boost!
This graphic novel delves into the meaning of our existence, but more than that, it's a great exploration of the human psyche as well as human nature and our experiences.Although adorable and deeply meaningful, I wasn't deeply enthralled by it.
If you have the patience to endure the intentionally misspelt words (because Jomny is an alien) without developing further dyslexic tendencies, then this book is great for you.
This book is balm for a seered soul in a busy, amgry, scary world, one that demamds we nevebr mak mistakes, nevebr slow down, nevebr have doubts, nevebr trust anyome to much because they will screw us ovebr, and always no exactly who we r and wat we r doimg. Not just a cute book, but thought provokimg and helbful.
Surprisingly emotional, especially if you’ve ever lost someone close to you.
I will fight anyone who wants to say otherwise in a very un-wholesomey way because this is just one of the most pure things I’ve ever, ever encountered.
I was expecting to hate it, because I’m one of those people who’s always fixing grammar issues and I saw the front cover and the title and I was like...Uhhh.
I feel like all the things it’s implying, even though they are done in such a small way, mean so much to someone’s who’s seen people go through things like this.
It’s hard to rate this confection of a book. It’s thoughtful and warm hearted, exploring issues around love, meaning, art, aspiration and nothingness - perfectly suited for our internet attention spans. It feels like a collection of web comics. Each page is crudely drawn as if with a thick Sharpie and typed by a fat fingered child. I liked it as a physical artifact. It’s a hefty hardback that binds cotton candy content. PS. Loved the nod to the Giving Tree.

Where do I belong? That is the important question being asked by this little aliebn. This is cute and should be thought provoking. It is a quick read.I do like the end. It's ok to be sad when you lose friends, as it means you felt something is the gist.
ای خدا. چقدر خوب بود! هم طنز داشت، هم نقد داشت، هم فلسفه داشت، هم داستان داشت، هم تصویرهای معرکه داشت، هم ناراحتی داشت، هم خوشحالی داشت... دلم میخواد نسخۀ چاپیش رو داشته باشم. خیلی گوگولی بود. :(
ای خدا. چقدر خوب بود! هم طنز داشت، هم نقد داشت، هم فلسفه داشت، هم داستان داشت، هم تصویرهای معرکه داشت، هم ناراحتی داشت، هم خوشحالی داشت... دلم می‌خواد نسخۀ چاپیش رو داشته باشم. خیلی گوگولی بود. :(
beautifull and quiebt and hapy an sad.
Everything happens for a raisinThis book reminds me a lot of the Little Prince.
It is a book that can be appreciated by children and adults alike, with beautiful illustrations and even more beautiful life lessons.This little adorable piece of literature also has something to say about all of us:And it's packed with humour:This is a book that you should buy and pick up whenever you are sad - or even happy.
Most importantly, it is a book about love, as experienced by an egg-headed little alien on his journey through earth.
I read this book because it made it to the top books for graphic novels for Goodreads for 2017. And to be honest, I have no idea how it made it to the top. The book was super boring, with no real plot and terrible English. I never do this... but I suggest by passing this book and spending time on something better!
This is so beautiful and nice and cute and all of the things
I am really verymuch way too old for this.It gave me impatience.However, this is something my 19-year-old niece would love. I think it should be a birthday present for her.
very thought provoking and will be an excellent discussion starter for deeper subjects when my son is old enough to read it with him
to experience somebodys art is to be invited into a silent conversation they are having with themself" "making art is one of the only ways we can tell ourselves who we once were and who we aspire to be""when two aliebns find each other in a strange place, it feels a little more like home""Being afraid of death is the same as being afraid of nothing.""perhaps the only sing sadder than saying goodbye to a friend is knowing that they will never be the same as who u remember them to be""we internalize traits we observe in others as a way to honor and remember them.
It's very much the aliebn version of "The Little Prince" - our protagonist observes and remarks upon the life beyond his and along the way, learns more about himself and the universe.
It's a big idea book told very simplistically and innocently, one that you would either relate to or be confused by.As a whole, this did strike a chord with me.
I can't help but be a little disappointed by the promise of some big (and funny) revelation that I don't know why I thought I was going to find here.
Hopefully, we get to see this aliebn starring in his own animated short film someday...
I only read this because my favorite booktuber liked it and recommended it.It was meaningful with cute drawings and lots of puns (I love those), but I felt it was directed toward younger readers and it was a bit jumpy so 3 stars is what I feel is a good rating for this.
Before picking up this book, I would highly recommend checking the author out on Twitter.
I really don’t know who he is, but I heard about this book on a podcast, and it was helpful to read through a bunch of his tweets before diving into this thing.
It appealed to me for the 20 minutes or so it took to hammer through this book.
This takes no time at all to read since the text is minimal and the book is mostly pictures.
The artwork was simple but the use of blank space and short encounters worked great to convey feeling and allow the reader to experience Jomny's journey.
The author is able to engage the reader through alienbs, animals and trees to take a step back and examine how humans approach life.
Interestingly humans aren't featured on Jomny's journey.
This would be a great introduction to serious topics for younger readers but has something that everyone at an age can enjoy.
Recommended for readers who-enjoy comics about serious topics-are comfortable with self reflection-enjoy minimalist artwork
I guess I just don't get it. This is on most of the best of 2017 lists, but I can't for the life of me see why. Some people take it as this existential look at life. I took it as a syrupy sweet, cloying book about nothing and found it a complete waste of time.
4.5 STARSthis book made me want to have an existential crisis but,,,the graphics were adorable so i'm not madep.s. finals are killing me and THESE are the type of books I need. quick, adorable graphics, puns, mildly distributing quotes. how much better can life hey
3.75 stars
I actually ended up reading it with my partner out loud, which made this book a whole lot funnier I think.
It really added the tone of wonder and humour that our main character, Jomny, has about Earbth.What I liked about this was that the illustrations are super simple, but the jokes are pretty punny and there's a lot to laugh out loud over.
I do tend to find humour in books can be really hit or miss with me, and some of these jokes were a little far fetched, but the concept of an Aliebn coming to Earbth and seeing all the crazy things we do was pretty amusing.
