https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/711407.Kangaroo
I have generally identified myself as a socio-anarchist, so I quite enjoy books exploring aspects of this political philosophy.Exchange between two men, one an Australian, one, who is probably the author himself, English:"We won't be having women in if we can help it.
Maybe I've still got the wrong end of the stick!(view spoiler)[Today, July 13th, in the rag the Dailymail.co.uk there is a report on Tahrir Square in Egypt, where barricades had to be formed between lines the of men protesting and the women who also wanted to protest because the men were beating up the women, for up to 45 minutes at a time and 91 got raped in two days.
And unfortunately, I didn't make a very good choice in which novel of his to read first.
A large part of the book consists of this Kangaroo fellow, and his minions, trying to convince Somers to join his band of rebels.Unfortunately, this is about all the action, if you can call it that, that takes place in the book at all.
I will admit that the writing is very good.
So although this was a fairly major disappointment, I will try another of Lawrence's novels at some point in the future.
lots about the nature of being a man and the fundamentals of men relating to each other ...
Otherwise, we spend the whole time going "Oh. Gay.""And he wanted to know him, to talk to him.
The Prince of Wales (Edwards VIII) was "counted out" by Australian troops in Egypt?Bits:"Verbal agreement and silent opposition is perhaps the best weapon on such occasions.""'somebody will have to water Australia with their blood before it's a real man's country.
But it's a flea-bite, nothing, compared to killing your man when your blood comes up.'""Love is perhaps an eternal part of life.
He eventually decided he HAD to leave but had a month before a steamer would be leaving from Sydney.He wrote this book, largely about his experiences there with an attempt at adding a plot concerning a group of mainly ex-soldiers (WWWI) who want to change the government.
The group wants Lawrence (under the name of Somers) to join.
However, if you've only ever read Lady Chatterly's lover and THINK you like Lawrence, don't bother.(An interesting aside: This edition was published by the Viking Press and on the back of the cover, it lists an entire page of books it has published by D.H. Lawrence.
I came back from the NSW south coast where much of the book is set and this is how it feels all the way down to the stickiness of the sea water.When Lawrence describes human interactions he gets them very right.
There was/is definitely an appeal to the darker urges of the human psyche with the politics of fascism which Lawrence gropes toward but please do not read this book as some sort of explanation of the Australian right between the wars.
This groping for understanding that is far from complete is on some levels reflected in the ambivalent character of Richard Lovat Somers.
Kangaroo is D H Lawrence’s love poem to a strangely beautiful land-Australia.
Weird as this may sound, I have a strange feeling of having experienced Australia (along with a few other countries) in a past life, and this book reinforces it.I picked Kangaroo up on a whim, having heard the title alluded to in a Bukowski short story.
Although suffering from descriptive repetitiveness at times (the book was poorly edited, among other flaws such as the whiny, irritatingly capricious lead character Somers), the book is worth it alone for the chapter Nightmare, which takes us back to his tempestuous time in Cornwall, to which he lends a ghostly beauty.
Here was a problem to solve.Such plot as there is starts with Richard Lovat Somers and his German-born wife Harriet, who are clearly Lawrence and Frieda, arriving in Sydney for a three month stay.
However, I doubt that Rosenthal ruled by love and had hugged selected diggers tightly, saying “I love you!” Jack is supposedly based on Major John Scott an associate of Rosenthal and an official in the Old Guard.Through Jaz, an enigmatic Welshman now Australian, Somers’ meets the leader of the Labor Movement, Willie Struthers, ugly with an “Australian” face.
The politics in the book touch on the rights of the working class people (Lawrence's own background), and whether the writer character Richard Lovat Somers should give his support to one of two political leaders, either the benevolent would-be dictator, Kangaroo, or the more socialist Willie Struthers.
With Lawrence's recent experiences at home he may have seen Australia as a 'new' land of possibility, but it is the people in his book who prevent the possible from happening (Somers eventually rejects both of the leaders and indeed the country itself).Overall unsatisfying, but with moments of genius, and great style.

Lawrence's honesty and artistic integrity made me realize how far the modern world wants us to travel from being human - what makes us valuable and vital.His words are so beautiful.
Many of the chapters are deeply moving and full of personal experience and emotion.
He never enlisted in the army for the 1st world war but you will know by reading this book - what a great warrior and artist this man was.
She is the hero of this book and Lawrence knows it.
He makes way for her.Just by writing these words I feel myself being moved.
Strangely poignant, this confused and rambling semi-autobiographical account of DH Lawrence's own trip to Australia is full of reflections on the nature of man, politics and the differences between England and Oz. Written hastily in a few weeks, it sometimes cries out for editing - some characters never distinguish themselves or stand out strongly from others (Richard Lovat Somers, the main character, included).
Don't read this if you are after a light read, but nevertheless for lovers of Australianness, this is a must-read.A note - much of the book concerns profound love between men.
The relationship between Richard Lovat and Kangaroo remains, to the final pages, one of great tension and denial.
There's good reason why this book does not score highly, has mixed reviews, is not widely read, and my dad had to go to lots of effort to track down a copy. Generically mixed novel, part autobiographical, part political treatise, part travelogue. Unlike other DH Lawrence - it's hardly Lady Chatterley's lover. I loved the descriptions of Australian bush and beach landscapes and Sydney life of the times. I found the long interlocutory dialogues, thick with political symbols & metaphors, tedious.
Although written in the 1920s still as relevant today as then. DH Lawrence describes many of the emotions and confusions I experienced living in Australia so well. A brilliant tale of searching for a connection, failure to understand and the wonders of the Australian landscape. Challenging, but well worth reading.
I really liked Kangaroo, but I found that it was lacking in character depth and that it dragged on in some parts.
Some of the sharpest insights into Australia ever written, and all from only a few secluded weeks in Oz.
Look at the country-going rottener every day, like an old pear.'""'Now, Mr Somers, you are no believer in capitalism, and in the industrial system as we have it.
And they take us in with the clever cry, "Listen to us, and you will get on, get on, you will rise up into the middle classes and become one of the great washed.The trick of this only educated men like yourself can see through.
That isn't preposterous, is it?They raise the plea that their fathers and their forefathers accumulated the capital by their labours.
One of the books written during Lawrence’s stay in Australia.
Not his finest work.
Supposedly a novel, it is semi-autobiographical, and is more a self-indulgent philosophical soliloquy than a satisfying read.
Overly long at 492 pages, a decent editor could have cut that by 200 pages.
Very little happens and much skimming was required to mercifully reach the end.
But there were rare literary gems hidden amongst all the navel gazing.
The descriptions of the Australian bush, the astute perceptions of the differences between Australian and European society and the comparisons of the state of marriage with ocean currents were all superb.
Written, more or less, around the middle of his short authorship, as well as in the middle of his so-called literary-fascist period between Aaron's Rod & The Plumed Serpent, if I were a Straussian I might accuse Kangaroo of secretly containing Lawrence's special message to his select, chosen followers.
A literary man by the name of Somers(Lawrence) arrives in Australia after his self-exile from post war England(like Lawrence).
This book is a bad place to start if you're interested in introducing yourself to Lawrence.
I just couldn't imagine anyone describing such an inner world with so few words and so much impact.
They all had such sweet lifes to follow, such rich inner worlds.
Maybe it wasn't the best of Lawrence's, it was still so much better than most modern stuff I've read, was what I thought.But over half of the book there came this really curious chapter in which their married life became part of a really stretched out allegory of the ocean and boats.
There came a mesmerizing enormous chapter about why he and his wife left England in 1919 or abouts.
Kangaroo is an account of a visit to New South Wales by an English writer named Richard Lovat Somers, and his German wife Harriet, in the early 1920s.
This appears to be semi-autobiographical, based on a three-month visit to Australia by Lawrence and his wife Frieda, in 1922.
Somers travels to Australia in search of traditional cultural values.
While rejecting Cooley Somers finds what he is looking for in the Australian kangaroo - an image that embodies his ideals.
This is a somewhat disorganized novel, but one rich in ideas which carry the reader forward throughout.
I read this in 2011 for one of my modules at university, which was all about D.
Found out during the module that I'm not a Lawrence fan.
I guess from a writer's perspective that it's better to be loved or hated in turn than being treated indifferently.Of all the works by Lawrence that I read, "Kangaroo" was the worst of the bunch.
In Kangaroo Lawrence recounts his experiences in England during the first world war, tries to reconcile his beliefs about love and relationships with his marriage and friendships, and considers the political trends of the time (the Bolshevik revolution had only just occurred and he had seen the early emergence of fascism during his Italian travels).
And there is much to think about Human love, human trust, are always perilous, because they break down.
The greater the love, the greater the trust, and the greater the peril, the greater the disaster.
Hmmm - found this book very hard to read, my attention kept wandering.
I very much enjoyed all his descriptions of Australia, especially the natural world, but also the houses and people, but i found the arguments of the 2 political wings quite confusing and hard to follow.
what a change from our all-parties-seem-as-one-right-wing (most of the) world today - those debates must have been so crucial in people's lives.
and quite surprised by the ending, that he left to start again, again.By far the best bit of the book for me was the hero's effective internment and experiences in the first World War - really educative.
It is more of a platform for Lawrence to vent his ideas on politics and the acts of man.
It’s a book for Lawrence academics, since he wrote it in a period of six weeks without a heavy loading of his usual re-writing and editing.
This knowledge gives the PhD candidates the chance to really see how Lawrence wrote.
The first third of the book is devoted to a series of Socratic dialogs where the Lawrence substitute is grilled by his new next-door neighbor in Sydney in order to see if he was fit to join up with a growing political group.
" So he discovered the great secret : to stand alone as his own judge of himself, absolutely .
He took his stand absolutely on his own judgement ....
This is the greatest secret of behaviour, to stand alone , and judge oneself from the deeps of one's own soul.".In Kangaroo,DH Lawrence considers the psychology of social cohesion and organization in a world characterized by individuals who ultimately face the world alone.
The challenge for the individual is to engage with society in an attempt to develop the soul - the human compass of behaviour.
I would have to say that this is my least favorite D.H. Lawrence to date.
It is really more of a philosophical treatise on man's relationship to man and country than a novel.
The part I found most interesting was the period when the protagonist/Lawrence was found unfit to serve during WWI, yet was watched and suspected of being a spy making he and his wife feel unwelcome.
His descriptions of the coast and the outback of the country are lovely.
Clearly Lawrence struggled profoundly regarding the nature of his connection to other individuals and to society.
I've read a number of DH Lawrence's books, and loved them all.
This is the first of his novels I read since I was in my early 20s, though I am not sure if my age is related to my inability to like the book.
Maybe it's time to revoke my intellectual card, if I ever had one.
After all, I strongly prefer Spartacus to Rome, and I thought The Tree of Life was one big stinker of a movie.
And now this, despite the fact that Lawrence is such a talented writer.
Maybe I'd like the movie better?
This book is all over the place (I seem to recall enjoying the film a lot more) and is more of a two star (sometimes only one i.e. I struggled to continue) for a considerable part.
However, the autobiographical material later on in the book is very interesting and puts the rest of the book into a bit more perspective.
There is also some very good writing in places and together with the insight into DHLs troubled times during WWI this eventually left me feeling a bit more positive, hence the 3 stars.
Probably not the best place to start if you've never read any of his books.
Finally gave up on this around p. 140. It's a big, sloppy, undisciplined mess of a novel. There's something brilliant on every page, but it's drowned by wordiness and overinsistence and repetition. At one moment you'll think, 'Wow, Lawrence is a great observer of people,' and then for the next two pages his people act and talk the way only people in books do. The title character (who doesn't enter until after p. 100) was what killed the book for me, sadly.
I'm really not sure how I feel about this book. I think I enjoyed it. I certainly didn't dislike it enough to stop reading it. I neither like it nor dislike it. The novel is somewhat vague and just sort of drifts along. There's nothing definite in it, and there's nothing definite in my opinion of it.
