https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/787660.Heaven
He repeatedly threatens to leave Kitty because of the ways she abuses Heaven, but he never does.
Heaven, for her part, doesn't want sex with Cal. She knows it must be wrong...but she's so desperate for fatherly love that she allows him to seduce her with his wishy-washy emo ways.
Cal's seduction is probably the most sinister aspect of the book; it's both creepy & sad that Heaven is so inexperienced & desperate for love that she allows that kind of affection.
Um...I almost gave this five stars because I love V.C. and her trashy, soap opera books (but, you know, it's not beautifully written or anything so I restrained myself).
And, actually, the writing isn't THAT horrible.DO NOT start reading the later series from V.C. because those really are horribly written--I think the ghostwriters weren't selected as well, and I think they stopped using V.C.'s actual plots and notes and just started slapping together books using all of the 8 elements I listed above (and probably more).
I was about 14 when I first read this book, giggling with my girlfriends over all the dirty parts.
Re-reading it as a "grown-up" cemented my love for the book - it's horrible, tasteless, trashy and loads of fun!I see it as a poor man's Little House on the Prairie (if they had lived in West Virginia) You've got Ma, Pa and a bunch of unkempt children sharing a one bedroom house.
In this book, Pa gets an STD and sells all his kids at $500 a pop.
But other than that, it's EXACTLY the same...
Well, I love V.C. Andrews now. The emotion, the messages and the subtle-ness. The characters, the complexity, the gray-ness of it all. I don't think I could make a coherent review if I tried, but I loved this book, now...where did it throw my shattered heart?
Her stories might seem sensational even trashy but at least V Andrews was talking about the ugly.
This and Andrews other books, made my ugly feel less lonely, it kept me company at night, when my ugly was creeping outside my bedroom door demanding a sandwich from his cooperative wife before he moved on to complete his nights work.
Weird thing but when I started facing up to my past ugly I gave all her books away, now I want them back.Now studying literature I am wondering about her place among writers.
This is the book that set me on the path to become the avid reader I am to day.
My mothers co-worker told her about it.
Then she started telling my sister about it, they passed it back and forth and had very interesting conversations that I could not get involved in because I did not know anything about Heaven, her father, or her "fresh" sister Franny.
Finally they finished and it was just sitting there mocking me.
Then I read every V C Andrews book I could get my hands on.
Since then I have read hundreds of books.
Thanks V C Andrews=)
Heaven Leigh Casteel (the name should have been my first clue...) lives in the hills of West Virginia, and her family is at the bottom of the pecking order in their small town.
In her new wealthy household with a new stepmother and stepfather, Heaven turns into a complainer: she has to wear K-Mart clothes (which aren't good enough for her fashion tastes, even though she had only rags to wear before), she has to do chores around the house (this sort of whining probably appealed to me as a teenager), and her new stepmother doesn't love her enough.
I was almost embarrassed to admit that I read this, but whatever. Who doesn't like a fluffy book every now and again? This one was pretty damn craptastic.
Heaven is one of my favorite V.C. Andrews novels, it's creative, vibrant and well-written, with a complex variety of characters and vivid scenery.
Dirò soltanto che è stata da me sintetizzata al massimo e che riserva molteplici colpi di scena che tengono il lettore incollato al libro fino alla parola fine.Ricordo gli inverni, quando i rami spogli degli alberi scricchiolavano sinistramente, sferzati dal vento gelido e raschiavano contro la nostra misera capanna abbarbicata sul ripido pendio dei colli del West VirginiaQuesta è una storia dura, colpisce per la crudezza con cui l'autrice descrive la vita di questa sfortunata famiglia che sprofonda sempre più nel baratro della miseria.
Ciò che più la fa soffrire però, non è il morso della fame o i brividi di freddo ma l'avversione che suo padre sembra nutrire nei suoi confronti.
OK so I went through a phase in my teens where I read and owned every VC Andrews book, as evident by the 46+ books listed here!
(I just sold them on ebay when I bought my house, so I didn't have to pack them up and move them for the millionth time!) But this series, marked by Heaven Casteel was by far my favorite series and I read it many many times.
I stopped reading the newer books in college, since they weren't really by VC anymore and every new book that came out seemed dumber and was written poorly.
HEAVEN IS A AWESOME BOOK IT HAS 5 BOOKS IN THAT FAMILY STORY ,IT IS BY THE AUTHOR WHO CREATED THE BOOK FLOWERS IN THE ATTIC BASED ON A TRUE STORY ONCE YOU READ THE FIRSTN BOOK ITS VERY HARD TO STOP! I HAVE READ ALL 5 BOOKS OF THE CASTEEL FAMILY AND IM SO HOOKED IM STARTING ON FLOWERS IN THE ATTIC(THE DOLLANGAR FAMILY)
God! I had forgotten this one! I'm ashamed to say I read it and loved it! In my defense, I was only in seventh grade. From the looks of it, I'm not the only reviewer who cut their teeth on these books!
DNF I just can't find the motivation.
"Heaven" was the first in a long series of V.C. Andrews books I couldn't wait to get my hands on and once in my hot little hands devoured like Pringles chips; fully aware that I couldn't read just one book!
When I read "Heaven" for the very first time I remember looking up from several chapters to realize that I was so engrossed in the story that three hours had gone by like three seconds and I didn't even notice.
Heaven was a wonderful passionate heroine because she rose above so many obstacles what I liked about her was she reminded me so much of myself she was shy,beautiful,smart,passionate,and courageous.
More than anything heaven wanted love and the warmth of a family what made me feel sorry for her was she always tried to please those around her because she wanted to be loved and to be accepted.
What I loved about v.c. Andrews books was they were about feminine heroines who were trying to rise above circumstance and these were strong empowered women that I've come to treasure.


Na, bet kai jau perskaičiau visą, pasipylė komentarai apie kitas Andrews serijas, ir ach...
Heven patenka pas smurtaujančią įmotę, kur ji pamato dar kitą pragaro pusę.Na taip, taip – viskas skamba kaip „Santa Barbara“ ir nematau reikalo „gintis“ ir sakyti, jog V.C. Andrews rašo genialius, gyvenimą keičiančius kūrinius.
Ir nors jas skaitydama susilaukiau tų keistų žvilgsnių (o, Dieve kokią nesąmonę ji čia skaito?!), ir tų „intelektualiųjų“ žmonių klausimų permieštų ironija – „O kodėl tu pasirinkai skaityti TOOOOKIAS knygas?“, arba tų pačių smagiausių – „ir kaip tu randi laiko TOKIOOOMS knygoms??“.
Jau vien tai, kad skaitote ir randate laiko sau, mylimoms knygoms yra nuostabiai gražu.
Well written but not my kind of story.
The main reason that this isn't my kind of story is that I don't feel that I, the reader, gained anything from this harrowing of my soul that I experienced reading this.
And I didn't like the ending (view spoiler)[which was basically upbeat if you can believe that Pa really had changed his entire character.
But after all of Heaven's insights into people's character & motivation throughout the book, it offended me that she suddenly lost this ability in the final chapter.
(hide spoiler)]
Drama, drama and more dramaHeaven is so dramatic and compassionate and considerate of others, it almost makes me cry to read about her continually being mistreated. Just when you honk things will look up, something happens and drags her back down. I'm ready to start reading about her finally getting something good because she is the kind of character that you keep wishing well for.
There is some form of incest (after all, this is Andrews), but it's of the adoptive parent kind.
Heaven is raped repeatedly by her adoptive father, Cal, although she doesn't fully recognise it (which I'll get to soon), and Fanny reveals that she is having her adoptive father's baby, her adoptive father being a reverend no less.I will momentarily praise Andrews for writing Heaven's reaction to her repeated rape in a somewhat believable manner.
Heaven is desperate for the love of a parent all throughout the book.
This doesn't mean she wanted it, and it's said again and again she knew it was wrong, but she accepted it because she thought it meant Cal loved her.
Primeiro livro de mais uma excelente saga de V.C. Andrews que voltei a reler passados 20 anos, pois tinha lido este livro e os restantes no ano de 1995 (parece que foi há uma eternidade).A história é dura e comovente: retrata a vida de uma família de crianças que vive em condições de pobreza extrema, com quase nada que comer e vestir, numa casa sem condições, sustentados por um pai viciado no jogo e na "má vida", que raramente aparece em casa e que quando aparece é para criar problemas.Heaven é a mais velha dos irmãos e sempre sentiu que o pai não gostava dela, que tentava ignorá-la e fazer que ela nem existia...
On the other, it fulfills its purpose (trashy, soap-opera fun) so well, it's hard to give it a low rating.Plus, it's masterfully designed to hit all the sweet spots in a preteen's psyche.
The fact that my classmates and I lived in the area where this book is set and loved it in spite of its insulting and ridiculous hillbilly stereotypes just goes to show the bulletproof appeal of this book to middle-school students.Also, if you ever need to argue for the value of a good sex-ed curriculum in schools, you can just point to this book.
Because, really, would you rather your 10-year-old learn about sex from V.C. Andrews?
I first hesitated reading this book - series after Flowers in the Attic (which I loved), but I was really into it after a few pages. Heaven Leigh? How could you not like this poor, strong-willed, coureageous girl? Hated Fanny, I hope she was a real character so I could slap her! I also despised Kitty, nothing could condone her behaviour. *spoiler*I can't believe Tom could still believe in his father after he sold their poor souls!! My heart broke when he and Heaven had to take separate ways AGAIN!
This series is one of my all time favorite of all of V.C. Andrews' series novels! As always, I fell in love with all of the characters! <3
Going through a V.C. Andrews nostalgia revisit. When I was a kid they really didn’t have a lot of YA reads so I read a lot of Stephen King and V.C. Andrews. What was I reading?!? In 8th grade?!? 😂
It's exactly why I spent most of my high school and some of my college days participating in writing roleplays that featured her wonderful characters with their deep and complex backstories.Heaven Leigh Casteel is one of my favorite female characters of all time.
I was so glad when he finally let her go!While Kitty was most definitely a terrible, abusive character, at the same time she was also pretty interesting.
I would have liked to see Granny stick around longer, though.Heaven's relationship with Cal and Kitty was also interesting, though at the same time sometimes very hard to get through.
I've never read a book quite like this.
While some of the sexual descriptions kind of shocked me, it was only because the type of books I generally read don't describe such things as frankly...
Looking through reviews it was made clear the VCA likes to include incest, and while Heaven doesn't have direct incest there's still a relationship that's quite...
The only thing I wanted really answered after this installment was whether Heaven ends up with Logan and I looked ahead to the other sequels and as long as I know she ends up with Logan Stonewall, I don't need to pursue anymore of this series.
Let's just say this was interesting and a good change-up from the things I usually read.
What a really depressing story, but that's an V.C. Andrews story at its best. At least it ended with a bit of hope for this Hill girl that is smart as a whip for her upbringing, I wonder about all the other books in this series and her family! And damn it I would be in the same boat as Heaven and never forgive her Pa for what he did (or not do) during the first book... WTF!
