https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29437949-behind-closed-doors
It's not that kind of twisty, secretive book at all.
It's the kind of fast-paced, pulpy read that plays with your emotions without ever making you think too hard.
But, so help me, I could not put it down.karen nailed it when she described this book as being fuelled by its action, not its suspense.
(hide spoiler)]Between the breakneck pacing and the emotional nature of the read (Grace's love for her sister with Down's syndrome is particularly heart-wrenching), my eyes were glued to the pages.
the kind of perfect that makes you do an evil little smile.
But when talk turns to Millie coming to live with them, Grace seems more nervous than excited.Jack really seems like the perfect man.
Neither of them were going to read the book but they ended up being quite interested in the story once I started telling them about it.
Although I questioned some of Grace's decisions, it felt like one of those situations where you couldn't possibly know how you would react unless it was happening to you.There may be some things that may not seem completely realistic or believable but I didn't care.
congratulations! semifinalist in goodreads' best mystery/thriller AND debut author categories 2016! women's health calls this book "2016's ANSWER TO GONE GIRL"dear women's health - please leave the readers' advisory work to trained professionals and stick to telling us how much water we should be drinking. for our vaginas.this is nothing like Gone Girl. it's nothing like The Girl on the Train. i'm not even sure this can be classified as psychological suspense, really. this is a straight-up thril
women's health calls this book "2016's ANSWER TO GONE GIRL"dear women's health - please leave the readers' advisory work to trained professionals and stick to telling us how much water we should be drinking.
the focus of this book is the "perfect" marriage of jack and grace angel: he is a handsome lawyer specializing in domestic abuse who has never lost a case while she is beautiful and demure, retired from her high-powered career to transfer her accomplishments to the realm of the domestic arts: soufflé baking, painting, gardening, and entertaining; awaiting the day her special needs sister millie will turn eighteen, leave her boarding school, and come to live with them in their perfect house and be a part of their perfect life.
*4 stars* (Because 3.98 sounds too olympic-figure-skating-judgey)Sorry you had to take all that heat, George Clooney…If you can dig deep and find it in you to curb your need for concrete common sense and logic for the sake of some truly fun fiction, then you, my friend, are the perfect prospect for  Behind Closed Doors . Because this is the second book by B.A. Paris that I could not put down. Sure, I had to battle a few nagging concerns while I read: - This wouldn't really happen this way… -Sure
Sure, I had to battle a few nagging concerns while I read: - This wouldn't really happen this way… -Surely someone would notice… -Why doesn't she SAY something!…-Is she for real?…-Is HE for real?…But it was all in good fun…well, as fun as something this demented and extreme is allowed to be.
This story highlights the fact that there are flaws lingering beneath all surfaces of perfection, and shows just one horrific example of what could really be going on behind closed doors.
Although its content is crawling with extremely twisted and bizarre insinuations, this story isn't the least bit graphic in what it reveals.
It’s realistic in a scary, can’t-fall-in-love-blindly-anymore and I-need-to-scrutinize-my-boyfriend kind of way.It’s terrifying because it’s a story that could happen to anyone.
And perhaps that’s why Behind Closed Doors affected me in such a way.
that’s… that’s scary.Well, I think I will take a little hiatus from reading more books of this genre.
I can’t hide that I’m a bit shaken right now and will need time to reshape my mind into going back to thinking that life is beautiful.That was an amazing, emotional ending.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/My first warning should have been . . .  “The 2016 debut bloggers can't stop raving about. Perfect for fans of The Girl on the Train.”  By the time I was finished, there was only one thing that was going to cure my misery . . .  WARNING: SPOILERS BECAUSE I DON’T GIVE ONE GOOD GODDANG ‘BOUT THIS ONE.Grace was a big muckity muck – living a jet set lifestyle as a buyer for Harrod’s. That all changed, however, when she met George Clooney J
Jack swept Grace into a whirlwind romance, promised her not only the home of her dreams but also the opportunity to quit her job and have her sister (who was born with Down’s Syndrome) move in with them rather than live at her special school, and so the two were married in just six months.
*insert rewind noise*Despite Jack’s concerns, Grace insisted that her sister Millie stand as maid of honor.
Please note it has a little water damage at the top of about 15 pages because I read it at the pool and kids are splashy assholes.
I've been dying to read this book every since I first saw the blurb about it. I knew it wasn't going to be pretty and I have an un-holy attraction to books about psychos.  I don't want to give up too much of the book because the biggest draw for it is the twisty parts of it. Grace has not had too much luck with men. She has a younger sister Millie who has Down's syndrome, and most men kind of back off once they realize that Grace is Millie's primary caregiver and that she isn't going to change t
She has a younger sister Millie who has Down's syndrome, and most men kind of back off once they realize that Grace is Millie's primary caregiver and that she isn't going to change that.Then she meets Jack.Jack is a successful lawyer who defends abused women against their abusive husbands.
Several of my friends have loved this one but I think I had it built up in my mind to being awesome and for me it sucked big pickled eggs.Booksource: After much of my begging around for this book I finally won a copy on Goodreads first reads.
4 Stars!!  "‘Fear,’ he whispered. ‘There is nothing quite like it. I love how it looks, I love how it feels, I love how it smells. And I especially love the sound of it.’ I felt his tongue on my cheek. ‘I even love the taste of it.’"  Before starting this one keep in mind that appearances can be deceiving. “Behind Closed Doors” is a gripping, thought-provoking thriller with some psychological and mystery elements that will keep you at the edge of your seat. The story has some interesting twists
The story is written really well and overall it was a pretty addictive read!The story fallows Grace, an elegant, ‘perfect’ housewife who seems to have it all – good looks, a perfect, caring husband and a lovely home.
At first the fact the events from the past happened only a year before the events from the preset seemed a little odd to me, but as the story progressed I ended up liking this aspect.
I would have liked to know more about some aspects in these characters’ lives and also the story to be longer.
I know a lot of you guys loved this book, but it turned out to be just meh for me.
I don't know why.I listened to the audio version.
The audio is good.
The narrator does a good job, but the book translated into a Lifetime Movie via audio for me.
It might be better to read a hardcopy of it.Thank you to Lisa for recommending it to me.
She loved the book and so many other people on Goodreads did as well, so don't take my word for it.
Check Lisa's revue out.
Here it is: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Behind Closed Doors will capture your mind and keep your heart prisoner until the very last page!I finished Behind Closed Doors about half an hour ago, and my heart still feels like it’s racing, probably not helped by me forgetting to breathe throughout the majority of the book.
Creepy...Very creepy.The book opens with a dinner party at Jack and Grace's home.
There was no time wasted and the story moved quickly.
It was a nice change of pace for me.I was appalled by some of the things that Jack did in this book.
Unlike other books dealing with abuse and sociopaths, 'Behind Closed Doors' did not provide a lot of graphic, gory details.
It was unbelievable that Jack could wield so much influence, but it worked for the storyline I suppose.Overall, this was a fantastic, fast-paced story.
If you can keep your imagination under control, the author doesn't provide any horrendous details that will leave you scarred.
Not sure for how long!My initial reaction during the beginning of this book was, "What The Hell Is Going On." I knew it wasn't good and I had an idea but ideas are never totally what your thinking.
Jack Angel is a lawyer and his wife Grace used to be a lot of things but she's not any more.
Grace doesn't want Millie brought into the sadistic world she lives in with Jack.
Millie has it figured out and now all Grace has to do is find a way to execute the plan.
But in Grace's world there is nothing easy to execute.
In another book I read two years ago ---One of my personal favorites about two aging Gay men --after WWII --"Hide" by Matthew Griffin", there is a very tragic accident where a dog is killed --but it was 'not' intentional.
Readers 'did' lower their rating because of the tragedy of the dog's very sad death in "Hide".
Then, why didn't I see more readers lowering their ratings for "Behind Close Doors" --if they had for "Hide"?
Esther wants to know more about Millie......as Millie is going to live with Jack and Grace once she turns 18, and leaves the facility she has been living at.
My thanks to NetGalley, St. Martin's Press, and to B.A. Paris for the opportunity."Gaslighting".
And what lies beneath the surface will have you gasping for, perhaps, a last breath.B.A. Paris invites you into this little abode.
But what energizes this story is the uncanny desperation that you feel for not being able to look away.
You must know.This is a debut novel for B.A. Paris.
Paris knows how to draw the cincture tighter and tighter.
And that makes all the difference in keeping the story afloat and awaiting the next wave of attention.
Looking forward to B.A. Paris' next offering.a
I have voted in 2 categories for this book in the 2016 Goodreads awards and with good reason!You know that couple that looks SO perfect for each other?The ones that click together in every way when you see them and you feel a jealous twang that you don't have the same thing?
I wanted to yell at Grace many, many times and jump in the book and give her a good shaking.
Grace...The plot interested me from the start, I read the book in one glued-eye sitting until the early hours and was glad that I did, this my reader friends is one of those real escapism books.
My only necessity was finding out how this story turned out, to get me out of the claustrophobic terror created by a holy-shit psychopath.
I always love first-person narration—it makes the story so believable (unless it’s an unreliable narrator, of course, which she is not).
I was so caught up in the story, I didn’t really stop and think about whether it was all believable.
And I really loved the ending, but I wished for one thing that didn’t happen.
And in the end, I really wanted to actually see Grace get her revenge: I wanted to see Jack suffer, to watch her make him suffer, to see his reaction.
2.5 Stars An page turning debut novel but a ridiculously flawed conclusion.
There seems to be a great deal of new releases on the best sellers lists for psychological-thriller style novels about relationships between married couples and they all seem to be readable but quite mediocre and this was among one of three that I downloaded that has fantastic reviews but failed to deliver a satisfying and credible ending.
I read this on Kindle and thought I was missing pages as the book seemed to end so abruptly.An entertaining beginning but a disappointing conclusion and a novel that lacked any real depth.
Oh, the Russian roulette of having blind faith in a complete stranger’s book recommendation!“Oh, you’ll love this,” gushed a crocodile-skinned English lady at my Thai resort hotel.
Lead character, Grace, must be THE most gullible woman ever to walk the planet, and characterless Jack is about as evil as Mr Bean and dull as ditchwater!
She certainly doesn’t seem to know how an airport works, and as for mentioning a Bangkok hotel ‘with its own private beach’, well that just creased me up.
I’m not sure if my expectations were hijacked by the hype or if some of the other thrillers/suspense novels I’ve read this year have set the bar really high, but either way, this didn’t exactly work for me.
Sitting on the edge of my seat, excited to see how things were going to unfold with Grace and Jack.
While slightly unbelievable, I would expect more of an investigation obviously, it made me like the story that much more.
It was kind of clever the way Grace pulled it off.
Enjoyable, even though the psychological pathology and methodology really don't make any sense. But it's written in a way that keeps the pages turning, even if the plotting and details are a bit loose and the characterization not hugely complex. I'm a little surprised to see this described as "terrifying" and other such adjectives, though. Maybe I've been too hardened by other thrillers and life to find it that exciting. But I liked the book overall, especially the note on which it ended.
(2.5?) There's no way I can review this book without sounding like an asshole but I'll try.Boring. Unmemorable. You're following the story of a woman who's in an abusing relationship. Classic bait and switch. As soon as she gets married to him, she realizes he's a monster. However, even if the audiobook narrator did a great job, I just had troubling caring much about her or feeling like she didn't have opportunities to get out of there...Wasn't for me. Wouldn't recommend.
One of the guests is a new acquaintance of Jack’s and his wife is making slightly bitchy comments to Grace and asking her a series of questions about her life and her relationship with her partner.
Then we learn that Grace has a sister, Millie, who suffers from Downs syndrome.
Millie will soon come to live with her sister and her husband.
Ok, so what’s the real story of this relationship and why is Grace’s sister coming to live with them?
In addition, I think Grace is a wimp and I’m struggling to find much sympathy for her.I got this book on a daily deal from Audible.
This world has many sorts of closed doors.
Ask someone getting better after a potentially life-changing illness how people will perceive them in terms of strength and capabilities.
People tend to remember the worst and to expect the best so when you inform them of the worst happening they are not generally inclined to be entirely rational about that.
I look at the bath and work out that if I leave the door open, as well as that of the bedroom, I’ll be able to see through to the sitting room and, so, the main door.
It was emotionally gripping and I felt like I could have been psychologically examined after I read it I was so messed up from it.
There were some parts of the story that were beige and I felt as if I had read it before and wanted to push fast forward through it but other than that I enjoyed the book immensely.
This author did a fantastic job writing this novel, I was gripped from beginning to the end and had to know what happened.
Wonderfully thrilling and emotionally gripping from page one.
3.5 Stars. This guy is SICK!The perfectly plotted lie from movie-star handsome and brilliant lawyer Jack Angel turns Grace's day-to-day life upside down. Disbelief, shock and panic turn her honeymoon to Thailand into a living hell, but its what happens upon their return home that awakened my hatred for this sicko wishing him a long and painful death. "It was then that I didn't only vow to kill Jack, but to make him suffer as he had made Molly suffer." After the initial introduction and hasty mar
3.5 Stars.
This guy is SICK!The perfectly plotted lie from movie-star handsome and brilliant lawyer Jack Angel turns Grace's day-to-day life upside down.
Disbelief, shock and panic turn her honeymoon to Thailand into a living hell, but its what happens upon their return home that awakened my hatred for this sicko wishing him a long and painful death.
It did, however, keep me entertained and quickly turning the pages to its conclusion that I thought ended, for Jack, just as it should and to my satisfaction.Makes me wonder what B.
* 4.5 Stars*Jack and Grace have the perfect marriage, right?
Well, scratch the veneer a little, and there's something really evil lurking beneath.Grace is something of a trophy wife for Jack.
And as for Jack, I can't really say HOW I feel about him.
No, I really CAN'T say how I feel about him, because it would set me off on a rant, and I'd probably give the whole darn plot away!
If you get the chance to read this book, then do so, but just be thankful, that when you've finished, and you put it down, you can put Jack to one side forever.

3.5*Grace has found the man of her dreams.
Well, according to their friends they live the perfect life - but behind those closed doors….
(Oh, darn those closed doors!)Absolutely frightening!
Will you claw your way out of this nightmare before it's too late?Told in both the present and past through Grace’s POV.
Tension builds as Grace’s plight increases.
Each of these chapters ending in a mini cliffhanger that leaves you determined to read more!
(For the first half of the book anyway).Reading this book left me with a queasy feeling in my stomach.
Actually, I couldn't believe it ended where it did!
OMG OMG OMG i just loved Behind Closed Doors by B.A. Paris the moment i started reading this i knew 
Yes, because as the saying goes, what one always sees isn't what necessarily goes on behind closed doors.
In the case of newlyweds - -18 months new- jack and grace, the epitome of perfection in every way, there seems to be a...catch.
As Grace is never without Jack.
Grace never leaves without him.
Or could he himself be the monster he defends?I found this just a little too well orchestrated and perfected to enjoy it.
I'm being generous with a 3 but if you are looking for a credible thriller, this isn't it.
