https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3684856-fool
Welcome, gentle goodreader, to a profane, irreverent and hilarious serving of shag-filled Shakespornean bawdiness.Warning: Smutty naughtiness below (says Captain Obvious). This...is...my new favoritest Christopher Moore, nudge nudging out the excellent Lamb: The Gospel According to Biff, Christ's Childhood Pal with ear-hugging, diamond-studded prose like:   ‘The castle’s awash in intrigue, subterfuge, and villainy—they’ll be wanting-comic relief between the flattery and the murders.’ ‘Intrigue a
Heinous fuckery most foul.’ ‘Aye, that’s the dog’s bollocks, then!’ said Drool, slapping his thigh.
Pocket is aided in his outlandish chicanery (aka the aforementioned fuckery) by a fellow fool-in-training, the slow-witted giant named Drool who got his name, “because of his torrential dribbling and the ability to break wind that could darken a room.” Drool, in addition to the enlargements referenced below, is also a perfect mimic who  “can recall whole conversations, hours long, recite them back to you in the original speakers’ voices, and not comprehend a single word.” Once this rare talent was discovered, Pocket took him in to teach him the “manly art of mirth.” THOUGHTS:Being a big fan of British comedy, I was struck by how inclusive Moore was in including such a varied range of styles in the humor represented.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/  “We are all Fate’s bastards.”  In what may be the longest synopsis in the history of the universe, Moore does a great job explaining that his book is actually a retelling of King Lear. The differences in the modern version? Fool is told from Pocket the Fool’s perspective and the tale is presented as a comedy rather than a tragedy. Things that remain the same? The cast of characters (Lear and his three daughters with a bevy of support
In what may be the longest synopsis in the history of the universe, Moore does a great job explaining that his book is actually a retelling of King Lear.
The cast of characters (Lear and his three daughters with a bevy of supporting cast members along for the ride) as well the distribution of Lear’s wealth to the daughters .
Like Lear, Fool is a story filled with 
“there’s always a bloody raven.”
Refrain from reading the works of one Christopher Moore as he is sure to offend and doth giveth zeros of the shits about said offenses.
It's really hard to describe a Christopher Moore book to anyone who has never read one.
Or to anyone without a sense of humor.
Mainly because when Moore says that "This is a bawdy tale," he certainly isn't lying.
Couple that with his completely absurd sense of humor and you're guaranteed a read that will certainly never bore.
However, there's more to a Moore novel than just the humor.
Moore's take on Shakespeare and King Lear pays homage to the Bard's own randy sense of comedy as he retells the tragedy through the eyes of Pocket, fool to King Lear, shagger of his daughters, and instigator of wars.
This may be my favorite Moore so far.
Christopher Moore's re-telling of Shakespeare's tragedy of King Lear has great comic potential. It's just too bad that this novel doesn't come close to its potential.Told from the point of view of Lear's court jester, there are some genuinely amusing moments in this book. However, as I read the book, I kept thinking this was like a Saturday Night Live skit that had been stretched beyond its initial humorous value and just kept going and going and going.
“This was a bawdy tale!” Thus begins Fool by Christopher Moore, a parody of King Lear by William Shakespeare but also really a comic tribute to all of The Bard’s work.
Besides Lear, I recognized several other direct or indirect references and Moore himself, in an epilogical aside said he had blended over a dozen plays into the narrative.
Unique amongst Moore’s work, it does not operate in his connected universe of Hawaii, Pine Cove and San Francisco (as of the publication date).
Irreverent, profane and vulgar, it is the kind of fun Moore fans have come to expect.
Nothing like a good Moore-gasm to end the evening.Fool is a comic retelling of King Lear from the fool's point of view.
He engineers the downfall of Lear's kingdom by pitting the king's daughters against each other, along with other nobles and their bastards.
For me, the biggest laughs came from the faux English place names, like Dog Snogging.
Hard not to laugh at that, isn't it?I'd rate fool in between Fluke and A Dirty Job in terms of hilarity, with the caveat that you'll probably enjoy it more if you're familiar with Shakespeare's plays.
Moore's retelling of King Lear from the viewpoint of the Fool. Full of crass, tongue-in-check innuendo and clever wordplay - just like the real Shakespeare!I didn't enjoy this one quite as much as The Serpent of Venice. That might be because I read Fool first and I was used to the writing by the time I got to Serpent.If you enjoy Shakespeare, satire, and/or crass humor - don't miss this one!
Needless to say, I was all up ons Fool when I first heard of it.A humorous take on Shakespeare's King Lear told from the perspective of the royal jester, a fool named Pocket.
Moore gets to wield his wit against such worthy targets as the British, the French, Royals, Shakespeare, redheads, scullery maids, British cuisine, witches, the hopelessly mad and, of course, the epically tragic Lear himself.
The tongue-in-cheek takes on death and mortality that made A Dirty Job such a great read are missing here.
Those looking to read Moore for the first time would be better off with Lamb or A Dirty Job.
Shakespearean wankfest making a mockery of King Lear in the most entertaining and loving way. Bonk...BONK. Perfect black comedy that made me laugh out loud. Pocket is my hero. "I need to be spanked.""A constant, I'd agree, lady, but again we're declaring the sky blue, aren't we?""I want to be spanked."
I'm gonna go ahead and co-opt a term Dan used in his review of this bawdy book, and call it simply Moore-gasmic.  Fuckstockings!  is just one of the many expletives and/or insults that spew forth from the mouth of King Lear's fool, Pocket, that I'm hoping to sneak into my everyday vocabulary.  Twatgoblin  and  chunder-monkey  (used to refer to the King's bulimic royal taster) will definitely be making appearances as well. I'm not sure how much use I'll have for boffnacity, but I'll give you Pock
I'm gonna go ahead and co-opt a term Dan used in his review of this bawdy book, and call it simply Moore-gasmic.
is just one of the many expletives and/or insults that spew forth from the mouth of King Lear's fool, Pocket, that I'm hoping to sneak into my everyday vocabulary.
I'm not sure how much use I'll have for boffnacity, but I'll give you Pocket's helpful footnote just in case.
(one of my favorite books of all time), but that's likely due to my unfamiliarity with King Lear.
This was great even though it's been too long since I read King Lear & only have the vaguest recollections of the original.
No, it's mostly that, sort of, but Moore tossed in whatever seemed to work at the time, including the fucking French.
As one of my friends wrote in his review, "...it's mind bogglingly vulgar at times." Quite often, in fact.This was REALLY good as an audio book narrated by Euan Morton.
His voices, tones, & accents were superb & added a lot to the story.
While there were a lot of great characters, he was fantastic.My edition had an excellent afterword by the author.
Moore picks up on that and expands it into the plot for this novel.Although I have heard many people say (including Mr. Moore) that you don't need to be familiar with "King Lear" in order to appreciate this book, I am not sure I agree.
The basis of the plot is that all of the intrigues that one reads and sees in the original play are actually the machinations of the fool, named Pocket in Moore's version, who is manipulating almost all of the novel's actions.
In order to get this, one must know Shakespeare's "King Lear".One of the strengths and weakness of this text is its humor.
Okay I laughed out loud numerous times reading this book.
This dangerous need to express himself leads to the daily threat, sometimes several times a day, of being hung (once even threatened with being hung twice) or run through with something sharp and deadly.
I used this book as my "just before bed" reading.
I read a good bit of the book to my wife.
The need to share the best parts with someone is always the sign of a good book and in this case a very fun book.
If you're not a frat boy, on the other hand, this really has nothing for you.The idea is an exploration of King Lear through the eyes of the Fool, imagining him as the hero of the story.
Listen, if you think it would be funny if someone announced that they'd said "Merci" in "perfect fucking French," then you will laugh like 30 times while reading this book, because boy does he make that joke a lot.
And again, if you think jokes about buggery and poofters are funny, then this is the book for you.
But - look, I don't like to get all classier-than-thou with books.
OK so, I don't wright many reviews, but I had to for this one because it is one of the funniest books I have ever read. Even if you hate Shakespeare or can't stand the sound of iambic pentameter, this book will make you laugh. If it doesn't, well then at least you know that you don't have a good sense of humor... and that's a good thing to know.
Literally, the dog's balls, which doesn't seem to be a great thing, yet, there you are.
Now, this truly is authentic English usage!Balls up - Slang, to ruin, to fuck up, also "bollocks up" and "cock up."I was actually surprised that Moore didn't use this opportunity to transfer the legendary cock up of King Alfred's burning of the cakes to King Lear!The author's notes at the end should not be over-skipped.
Christopher Moore must be delighted that the London 2012 Olympics were centred on Stratford.

Fool tells the tale of Pocket, King Lear's favorite Fool, and the events that unfold as King Lear is driven into madness and destruction, and the kingdom is divided amidst treachery, scheming, princesses, fuckery, washerwomen names Bubble and Squeak, and a bloody ghost (there is always a bloody ghost, of course).
And lovely Pocket is right in the middle of it all with his jangling bells and handy little stick.
It will keep you laughing out loud and learning all sorts interesting new definitions to the English language.
I do believe Fuckstockings is my favorite new swearword.
Fool is Christopher Moore's comic retelling of the Shakespeare tragedy King Lear. Not to mention numerous references to other Shakesperean plays. You've got your witches, your ghost, your regacide... But, in my mind, Moore displays his own comic genius best when he combines Shakespeare with Dr. Seuss and gives us a ditty called Green Eggs And Hamlet Green eggs or not green eggs ? Whether' tis nobler in the mind to eat them in a box with a fox--
Moore takes the idea of re-telling King Lear from the Fool's perspective and makes a very funny hash of the whole thing. My second favorite Moore novel after Lamb now.
A shaggalious good time!Christopher Moore nails it again with his twisted take on King Lear from the point of view of the Fool. Pocket, a sarcastic, manipulating, horny little court jester, takes us for a wild ride of shagging, fighting, shagging, warring, shagging, murdering, shagging.... you get the point.Oh, and there's a ghost. There's always a bloody ghost!I have not read the original, (gasp), but I don't feel it's necessary. Moore takes court jestering and kings and loyality to a whole new level!!
I found myself laughing and shouting out lines to the family, it was so funny!"Fool" is a retelling of Shakespeare's "King Lear" but told from the point of view of Lear's fool, Pocket.
His lewd and lascivious behavior toward the kings's elder daughters, Goneril and Regan was juxtaposed against his tender and truly loving feelings toward Lear's youngest, Cordelia, who was banished to fucking France where she married Queen Jeff.
Pocket's deference to the king was also touching, even after he learned of Lear's treachery and the great wrong he had committed against Pocket.I don't what else to say about this other than I really enjoyed it and recommend it to anyone who enjoys Shakespeare, bawdy humor or "heinous fuckery most foul"!
Moore is fluent in Lear and in a lot of other Shakespeare works--or at least their tropes.
And as much as I love King Lear, I am always vaguely disturbed about how it all ends up, and it's intriguing to see the greatest tragedy in the English language turned into a comedy.
Every time I read Christopher Moore, halfway through the book I think, "Really?
Is all this really necessary?" and by the end, I always feel like he makes it work--there's a thoughtfulness that comes through, even when the characters seem as shallowly-concerned as the day is long.
This one took me 3 days...I'm not sure if it was the subject matter - "retelling" of Willy Shakes' King Lear or what...don't get me wrong it had some great laugh out loud moments...I guess I was just wanting moore (bad pun intended)and it could be that I have high expectations on his writing...I don't know - maybe 3 stars was a bit harsh, it was an bawdy entertaining tale and I did enjoy reading it...maybe I'll change it to 4 stars...ok I did...bonus story, at work someone asked a question on King Lear - what are his daughters names, and thanks to this book I was able to answer and looked a lot smarter then I am...so all in all if you are a fan of C Moore I would recommend this, if its your first C.
Moore book - go with Dirty Job or Lamb instead.
Questo anno di letture non poteva cominciare meglio! Non riuscivo a staccarmi da questo romanzo e allo stesso tempo non volevo finirlo, perché già sapevo che mi sarebbe mancato. La prosa di Moore è fluida, divertente, a volte volutamente volgare ma mai esagerata. Già amato con Il vangelo secondo Biff, è stato una piacevole conferma. Riprendere in mano nientemeno che Shakespeare, buttare nel calderone Re Lear, con un pizzico di citazioni e rimandi ad altre opere qui e là, era un azzardo, ma Moore è riuscito pienamente nell'intento, restituendoci un romanzo divertente, a volte amaro, mai banale. E bravo Chris!
This is easily Moore's second best book. I will be hard pressed to list anything above Lamb, ever. The warning on the cover serves perfect justice as it announces This is a Bawdy tale... I didn't chuckle. I didn't giggle. I didn't laugh. I barked. I laughed so often, so loudly, and so suddenly, it was as though I was barking. I read it in one night and am already craving the next Christopher Moore book. Thanks Christopher!!
Rating: 3+ stars WARNING: This is a bawdy tale. Herein you will find gratuitous shagging, murder, spanking, maiming, treason, and heretofore unexplored heights of vulgarity and profanity, as well as nontraditional grammar, split infinitives, and the odd wank. If that sort of thing bothers you, then gentle reader pass by, for we endeavor only to entertain, not to offend. That said, if that's the sort of thing you think you might enjoy, then you have happened upon the perfect story! I first met (f
That said, if that's the sort of thing you think you might enjoy, then you have happened upon the perfect story!
(An undertone that can surface in surprising and gruesomely violent ways - I'm remembering the slaughter of the women in the monastery from Lamb and the natal story of the Fool in this book or the fate of the Anchoress.)Despite that, I don't think the book is more than a pleasant diversion.
I don't believe I'll ever be able to watch or read King Lear in quite the same way ever again.If you're already a Moore fan, I think Fool will delight you; if you're also a fan of Shakespeare, you'll be doubly delighted.
Moore is a witty, skillful writer – usually.
“Fool,” is a reworking of the King Lear legend as told through the persona of the king’s fool, Pocket.
He is loyal to the king, and especially to Lear’s youngest daughter, Cordelia, who is sweet and loyal to her father.
Regan, the middle daughter, is also kinky in her own way.
He asks his daughters how much they love him, and Goneril and Regan give it their all.
Sweet Cordelia, who, though she probably loves him the most, can’t compete with their blown-up professions of love, and is cut off without anything.
Christopher Moore draws on inspiration and quotations from several of Shakespeare's plays "largely to throw off reviewers, who will be reluctant to cite and criticize passages of my writing, lest they were penned by the Bard hisownself." It's King Lear sprinkled with Macbeth and Hamlet and a happy ending.
Moore goes further and interposes a page-length "intermission" scene consisting of fourth-wall-breaking dialogue between Pocket and Edmund at the end of Act IV:"Bloody ghost is foreshadowing, innit?""But all the gratuitous shagging and tossing?""Brilliant misdirection.""You're having me on.""Sorry, no, it's pikeman's surprise for you in the next scene.""I'm slain then?""To the great satisfaction of the audience.""Oh bugger!"Lest you think Fool is only vapid innuendo, I'd argue that there is a more profound level to this novel.
If anything, this book has prompted me to actually want to read King Lear.
Not that I want to see where Moore diverged from the story, but because my reading of the Great Bard is pretty abysmal.I do have to give props to Euan Morton, the reader of this audiobook.
Every female character was unique, and it was easy to keep track of who was who.
And Drool, the "natural", was a wonderfully voiced character.This negative experience hasn't soured me on Moore's work.
I plan on reading all of his novels, and hope that this book is an anomaly of the snarky brilliance I enjoyed in You Suck.
