https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/312043.The_Fire_Within
And the whole squirrel story was totally stupid.
This is a book about dragons but 90% of the book is wasted with stupid squirrels.
This should be a minor side story to set up the dragons but instead takes up most of the book and isn't even entertaining.
I checked out the second book at the same time as this one so I went ahead and read it.
The second book is MUCH better...but still not worth having to read this one so you know what's going on.
Liz owns a bunch of clay modeled dragon figures since that's what she "does" for a living and evidently have those things unwavering around the house, mostly on shelves.
This one squirrel, named Conker was like the main character of the plot, not only did it have only one eye (because a crow had plucked the other one out) but it was the main reason for Lucy and David's venture.
One thing that I only liked about this book were the dragons themselves.
They're the reason why I even started reading this book in the first place.
It has a pretty cool core idea with some dragon lore and living dragon statues, but then like 80% of the book is about saving some squirrels!
The little girl and the main 20-yr-old freaking out so much about the squirrels isn't really believable and it definitely isn't interesting.The book suffers from a semi-common JF fiction problem of the characters acting weird just to fit the plot.
But he soon becomes part of the family, helping Lucy in her quest to save the squirrel next door which was left injured when its tree was chopped down.
The novel has a beautiful mixture of nature and fantasy, with delightful relationships, childlike innocence, and a real concern for the environment blended with an intriguing touch of magic.
It’s kindled in story-telling and fills the pages of books and libraries.
And it’s wakened by love.The Fire Within is a great book for any child who loves squirrels and/or cats and/or dragons.
It’s a wonderful source of encouragement for library visits, nature quests, art and writing.
I realize this was a much lower reading level thanI thought it would be, but even my 7 yr old niece would find this book too overly precious, tautological, and redundant.
Yes, this book is 97% squirrels, 3% the mystery of whether some clay dragon is real or not.
To be more specific, a little girl trying to find some mangy one eyed squirrel, and then some guy making up stories about it/ tying to find it.
Don't get me wrong, I'm all for suspending my disbelief in fantasy stories, but in this book there was no fantasy, and no mystery.
This is the first book in a middle grade series about David, a college student, who moves in to live with a mother and her daughter.
The mother, Liz, makes those clay dragons and David believes there is something strange going on in the house and is doubtful as to whether the dragons are real or not.
But still it was well-written and i did like the ending so i think that youngsters, or people who generally enjoy middle-grade books, would appreciate it.
Before I start let me just imply that I read this years ago when I was younger and part of the second, so I am a tad biased writing this review for it being one of my favorite childhood books.Now, for the actual review.
By focusing on a temporary main plot D'Lacey is able to slowly forge the bonds of Liz, Lucy, and David, and slowly reveal more info on dragons as the book unfolds, making you want to sit down and marathon read for hours on end wanting to know more.In the end this is one of my all time favorite books, and I would recommend it to anyone interested in dragons or with a love of fantasy touched with a little romance and the convalescent bond of family tieing the book together.Hrrrrrr
The Fire Within is one of those books that might not seem very special, or as if it would be a worthwhile read, yet is actually a story that will touch the hearts of all who decide to open its cover.
In my opinion, the writing style of this first installment is most suitable for someone of a younger age than my own, yet the themes expressed have the ability to capture anyone's interest.
David manages this only with the help of his special dragon, Gadzooks who often writes ideas down on the notepad he was kilned with.
David receives inspiring ideas from Gadzooks only in his imagination.
I was looking for dragon fantasy and I got a crappy story about squirrels.
I was looking forward to reading the whole series.
The series I read before this book had 4 books to the series with 500 or more pages for each book at the same price.
The series before that was 900 plus pages a book for literally change.
The characters were well developed, and the fantasy worlds created were fantastic.
To me, this is dragon fantasy for a twelve year old that likes squirrels A LOT!
The feeling I had after this book was more like, what a waste of my time and money.
A dragon on the cover?
Why don't we just draw Mr. Bacon on the cover?!
The most sensible thing would have been a squirrel.
I don't get how the summary takes the smallest message of the book, makes it intriguing and a big deal, and then only mentions the idea a few times throughout the book.
I mean "The Fire Within"?
How is that of importance?
My friend asks: "Well, have you read the rest of the series?" But that's my point.
I shouldn't need to read the rest of the series to understand a message written in the first books summary.
It has long time since I've read a children's book so engaging.
The Fire Within was the perfect book to take me from the reading slump i was going to.You know that book that catches your inner child and stirs your imagination?
This book made me feel that satisfaction when things go right, and sorrow when everything is going down the wrong path.The narrative of this book is so welcoming, that makes you feel inside the story, feel the warmth of Liz's house, and imagine all the dragons that live there.
I normally love books by British authors but I didn't finish this one.While it had some unusual characters and several funny lines, the plot was too ambiguous...
and meandering.And there were far too many squirrels.
Where did all the squirrels come from?
It's supposed to be a book about dragons.
All the dragons do is write in notepads, make strange noises, and cry, etc.
And I'm supposed to care about some squirrel dying just because the annoying little girl is obsessed with them?
I guess squirrels have never held much drama for me.In case you're wondering, I won't be reading the sequels.
When college student David decides to board with Liz and her daughter Lucy he soon discovers all is not as it seems.
Liz makes clay model dragons to sell, and Lucy is a rambunctious kid who really wants to find out where all the squirrels have gone.
When Liz gives David his own dragon, Gadzooks, a tiny little dragon chewing on the end of a pencil, David's life takes some unexpected turns.
This wasn't exactly a dragon book, in the sense of having a dragon as a main character.
It was an interesting and creative story, but told rather simply and with distractingly bad paragraph breaks.
A magical adventure about the power of dragons...When David moves in with Elizabeth Pennykettle and her eleven-year-old daughter, Lucy, he discovers a collection of clay dragons that come to life. David's own special dragon inspires him to wrote a story, which reveals the secrets behind a mystery. In order to solve the mystery and to save his dragon, David must master the magic of the fire within--not only with his hands but also his heart.
I was expecting a fantasy book about dragons but it was really just a book about a college aged kid hanging out with a 7 year old, trying to capture and relocate a squirrel. The writing wasn't bad, although a tad basic, my only disappointment was with the intense focus on squirrels and the complete and total miss when it came to trying to hit my heartstrings. Maybe it's a cultural thing, but I've never met anyone that's even likes squirrels
My daughter likes dragons, as in How to Train Your Dragon, and I need something to send her to camp with that was on her reading level.
Oh, excellent, so I get it, send it off to camp, and my daughter comes back having read one chapter, which is unusual, but I didn't really investigate it at the time.
My daughter, who has the discerning reading taste of a nine-year-old, said she would rate it two stars, citing the squirrels and the botched sad moments, which she thinks may be related to the fact that normal people don't hold squirrel memorials.
The book was mostly about squirrels and that was disappointing, because the cover had a dragon on it.
When I picked it up I thought I was going to get a very interesting story about dragons.
I would not recommend this book to someone unless they really love squirrels.
The parts that were about dragons, on the other hand, were interesting, I wished there would have been more of it in the book.
Overall it wasn't a terrible book, but it could have had a lot more potential than what it was used for.
Since I'm looking for new books and not having any success, I decided to re-read this book.I will say that the language is really low-grade level, but I really like Chris d'Lacey's style of writing.
I really love books like that; books you put down but wish that you could read all the way through without being interrupted.
One big problem I had with this book though is the obsession.
Authors always have something they are "obsessed" with, as I like to call it, be it boats, coffee, or anything in between.
Chris is "obsessed" with squirrels.
I liked this book.
I think this is more of a juvenile book.
David is supposed to be a 20 year old tenant, but he doesn't act like a 20 year old.
He also just met Liz and Lucy and they just met him, yet they all act as though David is a part of their family and that he is one of them.
Despite the issues of this book, I couldn't put it down and I wanted to keep reading even though the characters weren't as believable.
I don't care enough about it when there are other books out there I want to read more.
This book is told from the perspective of David, a tenant at the Pennykettle household, with Liz Pennykettle, and her daughter, Lucy.
The first few days, David has some odd experiences with clay dragons that Liz makes.
He also helps her daughter find out what happened to a squirrel in their backyard.
I think that this book was very interesting, because it tells a story about Dragons, while still adding parts about the squirrels.
I thought some parts were unrealistic, such as the clay dragons coming to life.
I would recommend this book to a friend if they enjoy fantasy, because it has to with dragons.
, but not as much as my wanting to go back and read that prequel series!I love that humorous hook at the start with David replying to the ad Elizabeth placed.
is the story David writes.Elizabeth Pennykettle, a potter, lives with her about-to-be-eleven years old daughter, Lucy, on Wayward Crescent.
Gadzooks will name Snigger, the squirrel in David’s story.The Wildlife Hospital is……on a farm (it includes a riding center and sells organic produce) outside of Scrubbley where Sophie Prentice is a wildlife volunteer.
When David moves into the Pennykettle's house as a tenant,he is unsuspecting. But event leads to event,and soon he is caught up in the strange mysteries of the house. A squirrel loving girl,a fantastic potter,and strange clay dragons. Soon he is caught up in it too.can he solve the mystery?
When I first opened it I thought it would be an okay book, if a little childish, but basically the writing was terrible. The parts with the dragons were swallowed up in a side story about squirrels that was completely unrealistic. Maybe if I was younger it would have seemed better.
I like The Fire Within. There are better books in the series. I think the book would be more interesting if there wasn't as much stuff about squirrels. Maybe that's just me. It is a very good series though.
I enjoyed reading this book but can't remember it well even though I only read it about a year ago. I know it is part of a series and someday maybe I'll read the other books.
This book brings back so many mems.
Well it was an awesome book for one and also its not really about dragons but I can't tell you what it is about because that would ruin the book.
In the Fire Within, a man named David moves in with Elizabeth Pennykettle and her daughter Lucy.
He quickly discovers there is more to the household than meets the eye, as the Pennykettles have a skill for making clay dragons that mysteriously come to life.
When David is given his own dragon to help him write stories, he discovers a mystery he will need more than just his mind to solve.
I really liked this book for the most part.
I really like stories about dragons and fantasy, and this book perfectly fitted that genre.
I recommend it to anyone who likes dragons and a heartwarming story.
Loved the overall idea with the clay dragons, but the story was not about dragons at all. It was all about catching a squirrel (which was irritating for a book with a dragon on cover and in title), plus the 11-year-old daughter was really getting on my nerves with her hysterical reactions. What we see from the dragons was very cute anyway and maybe it will be more of a dragon story in the next books...
I really like this book but the book doesn't really seem to be anything to do with dragons but actually about squirrels which is why I marked it down. I did like the idea of the book however and how the characters interacted with each other was done brilliantly, it just seemed a majority of the book was really off of topic
