https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/133018.Hellblazer
On the one hand, John Constantine gets lung cancer from smoking 20-30 cigarettes a day since he was 17.
On the other hand, he smokes like a chimney in nearly every panel, which is quite vicariously appealing, and he cheats death by getting his cancer cured by tricking Satan, which leads me to believe (falsely, I'm aware) that there is some hope left.The Hellblazer universe seems like a pretty depressing place.
I don't know much on his backstory, but I sense the world's been rough on this weary little guy, and he needs to give himself a break.
nothing has measured up since, frankly, but at least there's this: a wonderfully frightening story about john constantine coming face to face with his mortality in a way that doesn't feel cheap or merely a device for plotting with the devil.
constantine goes up against the devil and wins ~ not once, but twice.
he doesn't have some great epiphany and mend his ways; he just falls back into his arsey old self and maybe he's even a little worse off ~ after all, the devil can't touch him now.
some people want to compare this to preacher, but jesse custer is just a thin pale shadow of the complexity that is john constantine.
This is where it really begins.If you ever want to introduce someone to John Constantine, give him/her this book.
-One can go back to the earlier Delano - Stories, once one is already addicted to the character.
I recently reread all those volumes and can only say that even when Delano get's more and more the hang of the character to the end of his run, it's Garth Ennis' story that is really defining.
I cannot praise this storyline enough - it one of Ennis' strongest pieces troughout the medium.
The all-time classic John Constatine story against which all others must be measured.
In occasione di un semi-blocco del lettore e in astinenza dalla serie tv "Constantine" - interpretato in maniera quantomai azzeccata da Matt Ryan - ho deciso di prendere due piccioni con una fava recuperando i fumetti di Hellblazer.
C'è da dire che io non ho mai letto nulla del genere, a parte i Topolino, perciò in questo ambito sono una perfetta ignorante.
Mi limito a parlare della storia e dell'intrattenimento perché non saprei a quali dettagli stilistici fare altrimenti attenzione."Abitudini pericolose" è il sesto volume della serie e comprende le issues 41-47, ma per qualche arcano motivo in Italia figura come primo.
The first Hellblazer book by Garth Ennis isn't as good as previous writer Jamie Delano's best, but it is far, far better than Delano's worst. As pretty much anything can be.I like Constantine's solution to his troubles, it was clever and in line with his character. As much as I loathed some of the events from past books, I was glad to see them continually referenced. Continuity is good (although I am gratefully thanking whoever decided to NOT collect the apparent Constantine-in-the-womb-with-his-evil-twin story into a trade paperback).
This.Is.Spectacular.
I think I just don't *like* John Constantine. (Or Garth Ennis.) He's kind of an unlikeable bastard. But at least he's sort of aware of that.
Damn! This Sodding Book! I have been anticipating this book for so damn LONG now. I read Original Sins and pretty much loved it. I read The Devil You Know and really didn't like any of it EXCEPT the Newcastle issue of course. But this. This is really fucking good. First of all, if you are going from early Delano to Ennis like I did and are worried about the character changing, don't worry. I am living proof of the fact that you will have a smooth transition into the Constantine everyone knows a
I read The Devil You Know and really didn't like any of it EXCEPT the Newcastle issue of course.
(PS: Please read Original Sins and Newcastle before this because there are so many characters and events referenced.)So why is this book so amazing and known to most as the best Hellblazer story of all time?
And problem 3: As much as I admire the whole concept of John's plan in the last part of the book, I didn't love the execution.
This book, of course, has the mature readers label on it.
Although the final issue seemed disjoint, but I haven't read beyond it yet, so perhaps it setting up the scene for the next volume.I really appreciate how Ennis preserved the way Constantine "narrates" his thoughts, to me, this is one of the most enjoyable aspects of reading Hellblazer, Delano's narration was worsening as he went on, and at some point it become really long and full of non sense, Ennis perfectly restored it to how it was in the early issues.Another thing that got better is the art, which actually only relatively got better, because this series had no standard, I am pretty sure that at one point no two consecutive issues had the same artist, but Garth Ennis worked with only two artists and both of them were good.I feel the need to clarify that Garth Ennis didn't build on top of where Delano left off (which is great because he left nothing but ruins behind him), so if you like where Constantine was going, you will probably be disappointed with what is coming next.
I have to say that Ennis is like fresh air after Delano. This is the Constantine I met in The Books of Magic. Delano's didn't feel like him at all.
Hellblazer Book 6: "Dangerous Habits" collects Hellblazer issues 41-46 -- the first story from Garth Ennis' run on the title.
Rather than trying even a little bit to connect his story with Delano's last issues -- the choppy but mysterious and deeply interesting "The Hanged Man" (#39) and "The Magus" (#40) -- Ennis simply has John mention that his memories of the time since leaving the cave are fuzzy and indistinct.
This is about as good as comic books get, and for Hellblazer it's about as perfect a distillation as you'll find.Next: Book 7 (Hellblazer Bloodlines, Ennis' second storyline)
You may be familiar with the story of constantine via the keanu reeves sci fi horror movie of the same name.
As far as this book goes, the smarmy english sodding, bollocks, blokey, pissing shite head that he is was laid on too thick for me.
while he is pissed (drunk) out of his mind both times!
wow, oh gosh, he would have gotten it good if the devil didn't have to follow some rules..
no depth, one of the devils was an inkblot, for goodness sake.
personally, i am not all that into christianity laced sci fi stuff.
I like how the writing goes into many levels and how John has to ties all of his loose ends.
Yet he also meets a nice old man in hospital who gives him a brief Philosophy which Constantine takes in.
As well as that I like the use of shadows and the colouring to set the tone of the graphic novel itself.
It really sets the scene on many different levels.I would recommend this to any one who is interested in starting the Hellblazer saga (like me) and great for those who ae a fan of the series who would like to revisit this tale.
If you are a fan of Mr. Enis or of John Constantine, then this is a great story arc for you. The movie was based loosely off this story and the comic shows why it is far superior. The ending to the story as clever as it is, still manages to show JC as the self-absorbed morally ambiguous character that he is. Well done Mr. Enis.
My Brief Bookshelf Overview: grim, likable-or-deep-characters, mature, steady-storytelling-style, story-not-intriguing-enoughAdditional Notes: This collection contains Hellblazer issues #41-46.John Constantine is dying, and for the first three issues, almost nothing comes out of it but talk. Even if it gets better, it couldn't be by enough to keep me reading.
Constantine gets his terminal cancer diagnosis and has to race the clock to find a way out of a ticket straight to hell. He's consummate Constantine here, wily and crafty, a caring utter bastard. Still can't believe how delightfully 80s these are.
I see some influence of this arc in the Keanu Reeves Constantine movie. It's damn good. Delano's run was hard to get through - too wordy, too preachy, and repeatedly got off track. Ennis on the other hand feels like the John Constantine I prefer.
In addition, Delano's run ended on a weird metaphysical arc that - while explaining that John had a twin brother he killed in the womb - ended on a strange dreamlike issue that seemed a little too stuck up its own arse for my liking.Meanwhile Garth Ennis's run however has a rougher version of John.
However I'll also give praise for Ennis's respect for continuity, with references to John's demon blood and the Golden Boy from Delano's run being referenced.
But the issue is also a sad send off as we see through the death of a minor character what could have happened to John.And that's the start of Ennis's run.
Faced with mortality and the life he has lived. This was an interesting story and one that helps make sense of later issues.
Loved Ennis's take on Contantine's lung cancer!
smoking, cursing, devils and trickery - everything you want from John Constantine.
A really good book on dying.
That is what was so good about this series; taking a supernatural phenomena and anchoring it in reality.
In this case, Constantine is going to die a natural death by cancer.
How he deals and what happens along the way are very human things.
I have given some thought to death and always have.
Not in a suicide way but with an idea to make sure that I have lived and continue to live some type of life that is worth living.
This type of book reminds me of the questions that you should ask yourself.
Si me hubiese leído este cómic antes de ver la (mediocre) adaptación al cine posiblemente me habría gustado mucho más. Como no ha sido así, solo puedo apreciar a John Constantine en toda su indecente hijoputez no adaptada al sensible público fílmico. Y no es poco
I like the character and some parts of the story but it has a very slow beginning. It's very focus on the sick of Constantine and I had prefered more episodes about his fight with demons, though I love the way he finally faces his problem. Nice artwork. Entertaining reading.
By far the best Garth Ennis book ever.Is my first Hellblazer story and I want to read more and more, this book is awesome.
I'm so sad to admit it, but I just don't like Constantine as the main character. When he pops in on other characters, he's great! But as the main attraction, I'm bored.
Back when Garth Ennis was great. You've got to be good to take an Alan Moore creation and do it better than he did. This is one of the defining stories, where Constantine literally cheats death.
Fantastic and very somber for Ennis, he takes John to his darkest brink and has him do the most devilish move in his repertoire in the second to the last issue, a must-read for John Constantine!
This is a great book.
