https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10176.Dress_Your_Family_in_Corduroy_and_Denim
Out of everything he's produced (I've read all of his major work and only missed a few short pieces) this is my favorite David Sedaris book.
The ride includes experiences of being gay and coming out (horrible and hilarious!), portraits of various family members that bring the people as vividly alive as any long-running sitcom is capable, and living on his own for the first time, which includes apartment living in general and specifically the trials of low-income housing.Sedaris is a master at autobiographical essays.
These short form pieces about his life read like carnival folklore, so seemingly unreal at times it feels surreal.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/I think by this point it’s pretty much common knowledge that I love David Sedaris like a fat kid I love cake and, well . . . . .  Dress Your Family In Corduroy and Denim might be my favorite collection yet. I could seriously kick myself for not only not trying audiobooks before this Fall, but also for not thinking of collections like these as something that would fit into my short commute time perfectly. We’re talking true . . . .  Eve
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/I think by this point it’s pretty much common knowledge that I love David Sedaris like a fat kid I love cake and, well .
I could seriously kick myself for not only not trying audiobooks before this Fall, but also for not thinking of collections like these as something that would fit into my short commute time perfectly.
Dress Your Family was a great blend of stories of the Sedaris children and parents (words cannot express how much I adore Sharon, their mother), the Sedaris children as adults, David and Hugh and everything in between.
Okay so the Chip Kidd covers usually ruins authors like this for me.
These covers almost ooze a Wes Anderson-type Americana...
I'll let prejudices slip past.So this writer has a following and it is understandable.
This guy CAN WRITE.
And topping that: he can write short stories.
I am very ambivalent about short vignettes or even the lofty novella: why don't writers just extend the s**t out of whatever story they are writing to fit the perimeters of the novel?
O so close.Sedaris observes, writes.
Yes-- keen, keen like a knife.
this is a book by david sedaris.shrug.i mean, what else am i supposed to say?
it's not like he went out on a limb here and wrote a space opera or a bodice ripper.
it's david sedaris.
if you like him, you will probably like this one.
if you don't, you probably won't.this is not my favorite of his collections, but i laughed out loud three times, which i think is pretty good.
i like laughter.**one time, connor made david sedaris laugh.
he has yet to write a story about this incident, but we are all holding our breaths and waiting.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/I think I may have broken free of the endless Sedaris loop which I have had playing in my car, but I’m sure I’ll return to it eventually. If for no other reason than to hear about . . . . . I will tell you, audio is the ONLY way to go when it comes to stories about the youngest Sedaris – be it David or Amy’s impersonation, you’ll be hard-pressed not to look like a hysterical maniac if driving while listening. When my sisters and I even
I phoned one night just as he was leaning a family pack of frozen chicken wings against the back door.
It tasted like fish, so he threw it away and called it a night.
A few hours later, having decided that spoiled chicken was better than no chicken at all, he got out of bed, stepped outside in his underpants, and proceeded to eat the leftovers directly from the garbage can.I was mortified.
“Rooster ain’t getting dressed up to eat no fish-assed-tasting chicken.”
In fact, I enjoyed it so much that it made me want to listen to his books rather than read them, which was kind of a first for me.That being said, it’s not going to come as a big surprise that this collection is more of the same types of stories we’ve heard in the past, but I have to say that Sedaris really shines when he talks about his sister, Tiffany, and his brother, Paul (a.k.a. The Rooster).
And, based on the enormous amount of accumulated goodwill from his earlier books, I don't begrudge DS his commercial success.
But he and his boyfriend moved to France, thereby achieving automatic outsider status, and Sedaris was able to mine this for comedy gold (his accounts of misadventures while learning French are truly funny, and credit must be given for the way in which he makes the comedy seem so effortless).
This leaves one other area which Sedaris has mined fruitfully in previous books - anecdotes about his family.
"Dress your family in corduroy and denim" supports the notion that David Sedaris may be experiencing similar difficulties.
His previous books estalished Sedaris as a hilarious, extremely talented writer.
This book makes me laugh myself sick every time I read it.
Sedaris creates a series of misguided attempts at human connection that seem doomed to fail through selfishness or insecurity, but somehow don’t.
Sedaris is so good at exposing the frailty of those emotional connections without ever doubting that they can still sustain our relationships.
He makes me relate to even the most impossibly awkward and painful situations.
Every time I read it I think, “That’s so ME!” And then realize that I’m not a gay man living in rural France, fearing zombies and drowning a mouse in a bucket at midnight.
Ο Αμερικάνος Κορτώ μας λέει (ξανά) για τον γκόμενο του, τη μάνα του, τα αδέρφια του*φωνή Σταυρίδη στ
Another good collection of short stories by David Sedaris!3.5 stars!
But at the same time, David Sedaris is cynical, funny and does the best job of explaining his crazy family and all his neurotic thoughts.
I think we all do at times.His humor is not for everyone though.
I enjoy this type of humor for its subtlety and honesty.The short stories that I enjoyed the most were:1.
His brother’s wedding.It seems that most of the family members are funny on their own but add them all together and it’s a great recipe for some good chuckles!
Maybe it's one of those that, at page 100, kicks everything glorious into overdrive, making you gleeful and giddy and full of delight at reading it.
Maybe I should have read further and waited longer.
But, you see, I only really started to read this because it seemed hip at the time to do so.
I'm not too sure that I care enough about maintaining some form of imagined quasi-hipness to make myself sit through the rest of it.
I'm admitting I didn't read the whole thing, but I am admitting (and openly so) that David Sedaris depresses me.The end.
Just as reliably entertaining as his previous books!
oh so hilarious...
"What the hell are you doing?" she whispered, but my mouth was too full to answer...as she closed the door and behind her and moved toward my bed, I began breaking the wax lips and candy necklaces pulled from pile no.
2. These were the second-best things I had received, and while it hurt to destroy them, it would have hurt evern more to give them away.
"Not those," I pleaded, but rather than words, my mouth expelled chocolate, chewed chocolate, which fell onto the sleece of her sweater.
"You should look at yourself," she said.
"I mean, really look at yourself."
"I might reinvent myself to strangers, but to this day, as far as my family is concerned, I’m still the one most likely to set your house on fire."Rereading David Sedaris (nonfiction) via audio has been so fun! I loved his books before, but he's now solidified a spot among my favorite authors. He is such an amazing story teller. His last lines are always perfect.
With that winning combination, Sedaris's unencumbered writing creates a truly fascinating look into his life and way of thinking.Take, for instance, a neighborhood family that supposedly doesn't watch any television.
Sedaris spied on this family with fascination, watching them interact at the dinner table during the evenings and feeling sorry for the absence of television in their lives.
After watching one of their children at school being left out of a joke that made reference to a TV show, Sedaris writes, "It occurred to me that they needed a guide, someone who could point out all the things they were unable to understand.
Βέβαια δεν σε πέταξε ο μπαμπάς σου απ'το σπίτι, επειδή η παραλίγο και ξώφαλτση ομοφυλοφυλία σου πολύ τον ενοχλούσε, ούτε σε πήγε η μαμά σου κλαίγοντας σε ενα καταλλημα για να σε σώσει.
Από ποιόν; Ούτε κι αυτή ξέρει.
Δεν ζει βέβαια η μαμά για να μάθει την συνέχεια, αλλά τι σημασία έχει; Ο Σεντάρις είναι τόσο καλά εκπαιδευμένος στο κύνισμό, που δεν θα επιτρέψει σε κανέναν να βάλει το χέρι του στο ωμο του για να τον λυπηθεί.
Μπορεί να μην ξέρει ακριβώς ποιός είναι, αλλά μου φαίνεται πως ούτε που τον νοιάζει και να μάθει.(εκρηκτικός)
The last episode 'Nuit of the living dead' had me break down in tears from laughing so hard. A lot of the other chapters are funny, but I read it before in other Sedaris books. I just need to think 'Oh I see you have a little swimming mouse' to start laughing like mad though. Someone told me I should try and get one of his books on audio cause it is even funnier hearing him reading it. Will try that for sure.
I didn't like this book. I got the audio book to listen to on one of my drives. I couldn't finish it. I heard good things about it...that it was hilarious and that David Sedaris is great...but I just couldn't get into it. I think I forced a laugh out once just to remember what it felt like to laugh. It didn't feel right so I stopped.
As you read further in the book you learn all about his family like his brother, Paul, the rooster.
Like in the chapter the Girl Next Door, David meets a young girl neighbor and begins spending time with her and discovers she doens't know what France is, so he helps her with maps and such.
I personally liked the chapter "Rooster at the Hitchin' Post" because of all the humor in it and it shows the relationship David has between his brother and him.David Sedaris tells the story of his life very well, and in a funny way.
David Sedaris being David Sedaris. I would hate to be in his family. Every bit of dirty laundry ends up in a book!Review to come.Audiobook CommentsRead by the author! Woohoo!Blog | Instagram | Twitter
Sometimes cynical, sometimes neurotic, always entertaining. These stories are great for a few laughs and just might make you think.Often Sedaris says what we are thinking, but too afraid to say out loud.
highly entertaining!!Edit: 5 Nov 18Reread Still like it
Take, for instance, "The Ship Shape," about how his family almost bought a summer home, but ultimately lost out on the chance because of his father's fickleness with money.
The essay starts off humorously enough, with plenty of zany details, like the absurd names his family comes up with for the summer home in question.
These are wholly hilarious, and do well to offset much of the depressing downheartedness emoted from the essays mentioned above.Fans of Sedaris will certainly appreciate this collection of essays.
Newbies may find his life and family a bit too bizarre to digest at first, but after pushing through will realize the palette of emotions mentioned earlier.
It, quite literally, was making me sick to listen to it.
They're (to me) sick, but "normal" which was making my head explode.
Maybe that's the point of this book - to make us look at what's taken for granted as "normal" and have it be a wake up call.
Maybe, where the funny lies in this "humor" is what Valentine Michael Smith would say "it hurts too much to cry about, so we laugh."I don't want to cry about society.
So, instead, I get this sick feeling - like looking at some car wreck.
am I broken, or is the rest of society?
Sono raccolti in questo libro episodi dell’adolescenza dello scrittore ed altri dell’età adulta, incentrati soprattutto sui rapporti familiari con il padre, la madre e gli strampalati fratelli; storie che alla fine hanno una morale sottesa, ma che non hanno suscitato in me il benché minimo interesse.Dice Sedaris in un’intervista: "Molti grandi romanzi americani degli ultimi anni - libri che amo, come Le correzioni di Jonathan Franzen - ruotano intorno alla famiglia, possibilmente una pessima famiglia.
Ma la mia famiglia non è disfunzionale, la mia famiglia funziona ed è per questo che continuo a parlarne.
Sedaris is a good writer, don't get me wrong.
In fact, he's a very good writer.
I would've kept on reading if Sedaris was funny, but he isn't, despite his reputation for humor.
I have fairly eclectic taste in humor (Woody Allen, Wodehouse, Amis, Pinkwater, Richard Powell, Robert Taylor...on down to old Dave Barry), but I couldn't find an iota of humor in the microscope-on-the-Sedaris-Family approach.
If anything, I found it all fairly dreary and way too familiar in terms of the Jewish family angst.I'll probably give some of his other books a try, but I don't have high hopes.
Call me old-fashioned, but I want at least a pretense of story.
A collection of writings by David Sedaris.Quite possibly the funniest book I've ever read.(There's a little language and stuff, so I don't recommend reading it out loud to the kids. But I guarantee you will laugh out loud to anyone sitting near you. Which means don't read it on a crowded airplane.)
***NO SPOILERS***(Full disclosure: book abandoned at page 211 [out of 257 pages].)I’d had this book on my to-read list for too long and finally decided to read it after Sedaris made me laugh in the documentary “Do I Sound Gay?” As of this writing, this book has an impressive average rating of 4.08 here on Goodreads, so I had high expectations; unfortunately, I can’t join the David Sedaris fan club.
Sedaris had--and continues to have--kooky life experiences and also is able to find humor in the everyday, but what’s interesting is that what’s funny isn’t about him; it’s about other people.
I enjoyed this collection of stories from Sedaris even more than his earlier Me Talk Pretty One Day. Reading this on public transport was probably not a good idea, however, particularly in the social-starved London capital where I live, as many times reading I burst out laughing loudly, and then sniggered uncontrollably when I tried to keep the volume down.
Many of the stories are not only extremely funny but also personally very relatable - in particular Sedaris' explaining of his OCD tallied so much with my own life (particularly my teenage years) that I was filled with joy at the realisation that it isn't unique to my bizarre personality.
I'm surprised, because Me Talk Pretty One Day was one of the funniest books I've read.
(I sometimes still cheer myself up with the thought of what happens when you try to learn French from tabloid headlines.) In the ~40% of Dress Your Family that I read, I don't think I got past an obligatory chuckle.
It unfortunately rubbed off on my feelings towards the book.
Maybe a sign that if I try this book again, or other of his works, it should be in print form.
I still think he's pretty good at telling a story and building up images of the absurd.
