https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13104080-unravel-me
Stop hating on Warner guys. Some of us actually find crazy, psychotic boys attractive.
Me looking at this book after reading Destroy Me.Hey I just saw you,And this is craazyyy, but heres my address,SO SEND ME THE BOOK ALREADY! >.< <3 UPDATE! Tahereh Mafi, you have officially killed me. This is like the PERFECT Warner. O.O <33SWOON! *_*
I am so excited for this book to come out but there is one thing I am seriously worrying about...The Dreaded Love Triangle of Doom...with WarnerIts no secret that I completely despise Warner with every fiber of my being (a little over-dramatic but still).
Here are the things I am praying will happen:-Adam and Juliette stay together-Adam and Juliette get it on-Adam's body is described in full detail for an entire chapter...or two-Warner tries to hit on Juliette but she still doesn't fall for him-Warner gets eaten by bears-Juliette doesn't spend half the book like almost every other ya character thinking 'but what if I got with the other guy'In the first book, Juliette said she had no feelings for Warner so I'm seriously hoping that Tahereh Mafi takes the high road and starts something new in ya: the non-love triangle.
"Don't-don't s-say that-""I want to know where to touch you," he says.
I want to know how to convince you to design a smile just for me." I feel his chest rising, falling, up and down and up and down and "Yes," he says.
I want all of it."And I drop dead, all over the floor."Juliette."I can't understand why I can still hear him speaking because I'm dead, I'm already dead, I've died over and over and over again.He swallows, hard, his chest heaving, his words a breathless, shaky whisper when he says "I'm so-I'm so desperately in love with you-""He actually begged me not to kill you." Laughs again.
OH MY GOD THIS WAS SO GOOD. ITS OFFICIAL I AM TEAM WARNER.
HOLY SHIT.
This book in one gif:WHAT WAS THAT.
What did I just read.
OH MY GOD.
(I can't even express myself anymore.
<3This was me when (view spoiler)[ they found out that A and W are brothers.
(hide spoiler)]These were my thoughts on chapter 62: (I pretty much died.)Guys, I'm Team Warner.
And I honestly have NO CLUE how this love triangle is going to end.
I mean, we all knew Bella was going to pick Edward; we all knew Nora would eventually end up with Patch.
But I really, really want it to be Warner.
(PS: I love Kenji.)["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
And I can't believe this is like the 5th time I've read this and I still noticed new things.This reread I was really focused on the dynamics between Juliette and Warner and Juliette and Adam.
But returning to this was such a grand 'ol time, especially because it's been nearly 3 years since I've reread it and I was reacquainted with some scenes that I had forgotten even existed.One thing I will say, though, that is sort of breaking my heart, is that I did not have such a reaction to this book that I used to have.
That last sentence was everything.
*lol*All I can do is to try to write a halfway coherent review of “Unravel me” and considering all the feelings and the emotional rollercoaster I went through “to try” actually seems to be the right choice of words.
I mean he could have easily saved them a lot of heartbreak if he just would have been honest to his girl and he’s so blinded by his love for Juliette and his hatred for Warner that he doesn’t even try to understand their point of view.
English - Español Juliette is free from the Reestablisment, but never will be free from her lethal touch and from Warner, who love her more than she ever thought.
Persued by her past and terrified by her future, Juliette knows she will have to make great changes in order to get what she really wants.
✨✨✨Juliette es libre de El Reestablecimiento, pero nunca será libre de su toque letal, ni de Warner, quien la quiere mas de lo que ella pensaba.
Perseguida por su pasado y aterrada por su futuro, Juliette sabe que tendrá que hacer grandes cambios para poder conseguir lo que quiere.
Ahhhhh my mind I don't know what's going on with it... Review to come.                                                                                   [image error]
4.5
-----------------------------------------------Subject: Helen 2.0Time of Death: 10:23pmCause of Death: Massive Brain Aneurysm due to Excessive Eye-RollingPrimary Suspect: Juliette Ferrars-----------------------------------------------
we'll just talk about characters insteadadam, a man who can frankly just take me far away while i swoon forever:- he loves her but CANNOT touch her [are you SHOOK can you feel the ANGST???]- not only is he NOT a creep but he's also not the kind of fuck boi that tells you over and over he's going to change and begs you for a second chance....
Well shit…I love Warner. How the fuck did that happen? (Sorry about the cursing, but it’s definitely necessary.)
“This time I am a force. A deviation of human nature. I am living, breathing proof that nature is officially screwed, afraid of what it’s done, what it’s become. And I’m stronger. I’m angrier.” 4.5 starsBlurb: tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, it's almosttime for war.Juliette has escaped to Omega Point. It is a place for people like her—people with gifts—and it is also the headquarters of the rebel resistance.She's finally free from The Reestablishment, free from their plan to use her as a weapon,
I think that makes it two things I didn’t like about the book, Adam and all that love drama.But if I leave that aside, I really loved this story and the new characters we’re introduced to.Let’s start with Kenji.Guys, he is one of my favorite characters ever.
I get that he’s in love with Juliette and he wants a future with her and he’s not actually immune to her and she doesn’t know how to handle any of it but Adam, come on and grow some ovaries.Like, your girlfriend is a person who haven’t had regular human contact.
Unravel Me is successful to retain the mind shattering effect on me same as the first book did.
You are not the same person you used to be.I would like to see the real Adam is back in action.
Not only because of the story, but also there was a particular person who made me feels that way.
He makes me feel broke.
After one month I finished this book, I continuously pondered how to bring out my deepest feelings for this book and write them down in a piece of paper.
“Time goes on even when we do not.”  Well ... this book legit unraveled me. Warner ! *scream* You're very bad yet you're so sweet I wanted to hear what you're thinking. Admittedly I couldn't stop smiling and turning the pages while he's strolling around the scenes. This book is everything I could ask for. The romance between Adam, Juliette and Warner is a hurricane, it destroys everything barring its way and tore my little heart out. However, Mafi increased the pace of this book, and I also enj
this book legit unraveled me.
The romance between Adam, Juliette and Warner is a hurricane, it destroys everything barring its way and tore my little heart out.
“I want to be the friend you fall hopelessly in love with.
I want to be that kind of friend.
Yes, I do want to be your friend.
I want to be your best friend in the entire world.”
I loved every character in this book.
Adam is good but Warner is better, I guess.
Actually, I don't want to leave anyone out to suffer when their loves get nowhere and are in vain at the end.
Actual rating is 4.5 stars.I truly love this series, and I wouldn't call it a guilty pleasure despite the number of negative things I've seen said about it.
By the end of the book, I definitely noticed the change in her, but I truly hope that she'll keep her word this time and I won't see any more of this wallowing, woe-is-me bullcrap and in turn see her toughen.
Reading this book, it didn't take me long to come to the conclusion that Tahereh Mafi is, in fact, Team Warner.
Unfortunately, I liked this one less than the first time. I think it’s because it was mostly drama that I have already discovered and now on the second reading they have lost their spark of surprise. Well, I still enjoyed it nonetheless.
And it's the only thing in the world keeping me afloat.”Reread <3Oh my poor bleeding heart!!!
It's so beautifully written, you can't help but be sucked into this world and never ever want it to end.
That freaking dude, I want him as my best friend for-real!!
He's so damn hilarious but at the same time, I love his no nonsense, no bullshit, the world doesn't revolve around you, straightforward, honest even if it hurts attitude.
“I want to be the friend you fall hopelessly in love with.
Yes, I do want to be your friend.
I want to be your best friend in the entire world.” *Another really beautiful cover*
One word: Warner.
I mean every time I turned around Juliette was making out with Adam and then Warner <---Let me get to all of this in a minute.
I need to set up some hotness!I mean I could have finished three books today if I hadn't stopped to daydream all day, but I digress.
So, here is the 411 <--- do people still say that?Juliette has this power that when anyone touches her, THEY DIE!
I would :-DI don't even know what all is going on or how to say anything more because this book just blew me away with all of this today.
“Sticks and stones keep breaking my bones but these words, these words will kill me.”  Going into this book, I wanted Warner to die. And coming out of this book, I recognise Warner is extremely valid and deserves better. Any author who can turn my mind about a character around like that deserves kudos, to be honest. Shatter Me is essentially about: two moody boys and their ridiculous crush on the bad bitch girl who everyone underestimates until she shoots them in the kneecaps and honestly? I'm
Look, drama and angst can honestly be so good, when pulled off right, and Teherah Mafi knows how to pull it off.
I love how invested I felt in the characters and everything that was happening and the romance.
Juliette is, 100%, an unreliable narrator but I happen to really love those.
And I love how Teherah Mafi used form to explore how she is unreliable.
I am just, a ginormous hoe for authors doing real clever things with narrative point of view and genre form and Teheram Mafi does BOTH.
Honestly Juliette's character growth has been SO GOOD so far.
I want to begin by saying that, although I expected more of this book, I liked it, the way it is written is incredible and I never tire of saying it!.
Guys I've died and been reborn a thousand times with every word that comes from him , Warner's dialogues with Juliette in this book are fantastic !, the best without doubt.Not only the dialogues between them have left me speechless, the scenes between them are perfect, are designed and written so magical and so smart, I just saw myself immersed in that world.
“On the darkest days you have to search for a spot of brightness, on the coldest days you have to seek out a spot of warmth; on the bleakest days you have to keep your eyes onward and upward and on the saddest days you have to leave them open to let them cry. To then let them dry. To give them a chance to wash out the pain in order to see fresh and clear once again.”  Story ⭐⭐⭐⭐Juliette, Adam, Kenji and James arrived at Omega Point, the base of the rebellion against the Reestablisment. Castle,
It has more action and there are more characters to love or hate and more of this world to see.
He was kind to her when no one else was, he protected her, he saved her and he loved her so much.
Warner is the opposite of Adam in the way he treats and sees Juliette.
He never treats Juliette as if she needs protection.
He wants her to be proud, to be strong and still the wonderful kind person she is.
And the way he loves Juliette makes my heart beat faster.
Run, Juliette.
I like how it expanded on the world, even though I didn't necessarily appreciate it.
I just wanted me some damn romance and Adam and Warner and Juliette love triangle, plus all the drama that is just so extra.
I'd probably like reading about the plot and the world a lot more once I reread it and I stop gagging for the romance.
I like Warner as a character for sure.
She had better be a fuckin badass in Ignite Me and Warner and Juliette can become this sick power couple...Adam, I still love you though.
There was only one reason I decided to read this book.Warner I mentioned in the last review that he had some potential.
Yes, he was cheesy and demented in the first book, but I wanted to see how he evolved.
I felt like the whole book should have been about Warner.
I do want Juliette to end up with no one because she's honestly so insipid Warner.
However, the writing wasn't as dreadful as it was in the first installment and because of Warner's interesting characterization, I would give this book a 2 out of 5 stars.
I tried to see if Juliette would evolve.
MY HEART. WARNER. MY HEART.
I was in love with the characters, I was captivated by the story...I was more than ready to give 5 perfect stars to Unravel Me...
That is why I HATE THE LOVE TRIANGLE.(view spoiler)[Which brings me to tell you how much I am horrified, repulsed, disgusted with what happens around 86% of the reading: to think that Tahereh Mafi used her beautiful words to write such a long, steamy, perfect romantic scene between Juliette & Warner, it makes me want to throw up all over myself again.
I will never ever forgive Juliette for betraying Adam this way.
