https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1416.The_Norton_Shakespeare
UPDATE REVIEW!I have just read every Shakespeare play from this edition and than some.
I feel like too many of his plays were written for higher people rather than what he possibly wanted to write instead.
There are a few favorites I have during this time, but I admit I like his plays during James better.
I remember being taught James liked this and asked Shakespeare for more ghost and magic in the plays.3.
Is it possible every Shakespeare play is connected and in the same universe?
I've read every play, but I'm not sure it's possible for anyone to be completely done with Shakespeare.
The intros provide a fantastic historical perspective going into reading each play, especially for the histories.
This is the perfect companion for the University student who wants to know his or her Shakespeare better, and for the actor who wants to know what the audience already knew when they first saw these plays performed.In terms of studying the texts, Norton is the way to go.
Arden is better for performing the text though, because of its concise footnotes, proper ellisions, and adherence to the folios.
Norton and Arden are the way(s) to go.
This is your one stop shop for everything Shakespeare...awesome historical background information to add context to Shakespeare the man, his times, and the plays themselves.
I had to buy this text to use for a few college Shakespeare classes, and I am now an English teacher myself.
If you suffered through Shakespeare in high school and some years have passed since then, you might want to pick up a play and see if it clicks for you this time through.
In my opinion, Shakespeare is the best and most influential writer who ever lived.
However, if I start reading again and just proceed without apparent comprehension, everything eventually becomes clear.
Be he ne'er so vile, this day will gentle his condition...") and Twelfth Night for the delicate yet potent language of Viola("Halloo your name to the reverberate hills and let the echoing spirit of the air cry out 'Olivia!' Oh you should not rest between elements of earth and air but you should pity me...my lady, you are the cruellest she alive if you will lead these graces to the grave and leave the world no copy").
I enjoyed the stories I read - Richard III, A Midsummer Night’s Dream, Hamlet, King Lear, and sonnets 3, 16, 18, 19, 20, 21, 29, 30, 36, 40, 60, 98, 116, 129, 130, & 152.
Least good of the four I read, though enjoyable enough, if not particularly memorable.A Midsummer Night’s Dream - a comedy.
Somewhat humorous, enjoyable read, good story.Hamlet, King Lear - tragedy.
I can imagine that seeing all of these as plays would be more fulfilling than just reading them.Sonnets - some were nicely written and noteworthy.
For example, at the opening of Julius Caesar, when the cobbler says to Marullus, "Truly, sir, in respect of a fine workman, I am but, as you would say, a cobbler." Greenblatt says he means, "in COMPARISON WITH a fine workman..." While I think the context renders the meaning, "DRESSED AS a workman, I am but..." Since Marullus has just asked the cobbler about his clothes, this seems a much better interpretation of the phrase, "in respect of," to me.
So take my word games with a grain of salt (raised to Caesar, no doubt).
I only have to read 7 plays out of this for the course I am in, so here is how I feel about each I have read (in order):Measure of Measure: WHAT?
**Hamlet: Yes. One of my favorite plays.
But it's okay.
But it's okay.
I love you, Hamlet.
***Twelfth Night: AHAHAAHA I love you Viola!
****Othello: Okay, Othello.
I understand that this play allows for a lot of space to make varying interpretations about Otherness, but not much happens until act V.
**King Lear: Argh.
Lear.
This whole play just seemed kind of...meh.
Dividing up your land according to who loves you best?
Hamlet: This is, in my opinion, the best piece of literature ever written in the English language.Macbeth: I never read this play in school, or anything, which is weird because I was an English major in college and took a Shakespeare class.
I just read it though, in anticipation of seeing the play performed.
Overall, it didn't wow me, but I think I need to read it a few more times so that I can really sink my teeth in it.Othello: I love this play because Shakespeare does such a great job of showing how the characters do not do what they say they do.
Oh, how I love Shakespeare!
I won't go into a detailed review of the specific plays because I can do that with the editions of individual plays.
But I used this text for my "Shakespeare: The Early Plays" course in college and read about half of the plays.
It was a heavy book to lug to class because it has EVERYTHING Shakespeare ever wrote in it.
I would recommend this edition to anyone who's really serious about studying Shakespeare and wants to get as much out of the experience as possible.
This books been sitting on my floor for five years.
This is hands down one of the most rewarding and amazing books I've ever read.
Life changing, in fact.
Easily in my top five most significant reads.
It has ignited a massive spark to learn more about his work, to watch his plays, and observe the intricacies and absolute mastery of craft.
I will never read a single text as long and difficult as this ever again in my life.
All other books now seem short by comparison.Read it.
Get the BBC Shakespeare Collection and watch the works come to life.
I bought this when I was taking a course with Stephen Greenblatt in college -- a course in which we were studying four of Shakespeare's plays in depth.
This thing was, I don't know, $90 or something; buying each of the plays individually would have come to about $20 total; Greenblatt had just come out with this the previous year and wanted to sell copies; we all wound up buying the $90 version and lugging all 20 pounds of it to class each week.
He was a cool guy.
A lot of research and background information before each piece explains some peculiarities of the time.
I quite enjoyed reading Billy Shake's (as I like to pretend he was called in his young days) earliest plays in conjunction with the later ones that are so widely revered.
You can see his style develop from some school boy trying to jam every little bit of classical knowledge he has into a single piece (Titus Andronicus for example) to a more experienced writer who recognizes that trying to one up ancient greek myths probably isn't the best approach to becoming an established playwright .
With Stephen Greenblatt as the general editor for this book, I had some real qualms about the introductory essays/commentaries for each work - the New Historicist approach is so narrow, in my opinion. And the fact that they use the Oxford Edition of the text, which, as my Shakespeare professor pointed out to me, has some questionable editing, doesn't improve the text either. But it's an interesting collection, and generally I have a lot of respect for the Norton anthologies, so to me, this was still worth reading.
The editors are very clear about where they pulled the text (Quarto or Folio)and they explain why they made such choices.
It helped me to better understand exactly what version of the plays I was reading.
Also, it is worth buying this book for the play introductions alone.
Stephen Greenblatt, Walter Cohen, Jean E.
Howard, and Katharine Eisaman Maus have written brilliantly interesting articles to accompany each of the plays (though I expected nothing less from a Norton book).
They helped enlighten me about the new plays I was reading, as well as helped shed light on some of my old favorites.
The Norton Shakespeare is a collection of Shakespeare's complete works, including the sonnets, including essays and introductions on each, with glosses and footnotes for the modern reader where the meaning of words and phrases isn't obvious, or where the modern reader needs some context. It's not something I tend to need, but it has been helpful on a few occasions.It's a very good collection, and if you're studying Shakespeare, definitely worth getting. The main problem with it is that it's huge and heavy, so it can't really be taken with you to classes.
I forgot I had this! This book holds everything Shakespeare - EVERYTHING. And while I'm not a hardcore fan, it's classic, and it's literature, and he birthed so many words we use today (Do those who readily equip "swagger" know its roots?). A must have for anyone who studied English or who wishes simply to own it. When I was in college, we called it The Bible. And what a headache it was to dissect! Possibly why I sold it and the very reason why I need to repurchase it to add again to my library.
This is THE definitive edition; introductory essays and notes are provided by the world's pre-eminent Shakespeare scholars, as well as the standardized complete text versions. Mutiple versions of some of the more disputed texts, such as King Lear, are also provided. This is definitely a must for anyone interested in Shakespeare. The only bad thing about the Norton Shakespeare is that it's not terribly portable; I own this as well as paperbacks of most of the individual plays.
The best complete Shakespeare, bar none. If you had to live on a desert island and could take only one book, and you chose a complete edition of Shakespeare's works, this has to be it. Full of the latest editions of all his plays and poetry. It also has revised chronology of his works, including some discussions of works which may be by him such as Love's Labour's Won, and some great essays to really bring the edition up to date. Buy it, read it, enjoy. Simple.
Basically Wells' & Taylor's Oxford copy text, with paratext written by scholars famous for their work within the ambit of the New Historicism.Given that Taylor was influenced by the cultural materialism of the BCCCS, this edition isn't too much of a departure from the Oxford. Still, the New Historicism is kinda annoying sometimes. Remedies the only defect of the Oxford by including play-specific commentary and notes.
This is one of my absolute favorite editions of Shakespeare's Complete Works. The footnotes are exceptionally detailed, the text is nicely laid out, and there are three--count em!--THREE different versions of King Lear in the book. Not to mention, some of the "disputed" plays that haven't made it into all versions of Shakespeare's works. If you're going to choose one version of the Complete Works for your library, this should be the one.
Can't say I've read everything in this book, but I've read a fair deal. Shakespeare is the master. He is also someone you, especially in this day and age, definately need to learn to read, but as someone with a degree in English lit I can say I've definately been taught to do so (sometimes the hard way, ha) and that I definately have a deep appreciation for his work.
If you've actually managed to read this book- the collected works of the most famous writer since Matthew, Mark, Luke and John. Are you gonna say you don't like it? improbable.This is a reasonably priced collection with decent commentary. See the Riverside Anthology for additional criticism and analysis that will round out your understanding of the literay discourse surrounding Shakespeare.
Norton does a fair job in its explanatory notes; that being said, sometimes they are arcane, esoteric, mundane, ridiculous, and somewhat banal or entirely obvious; that being said, they are better than what others would insert in some footnotes; that being said, they are worse than what some would include; that being said, I could do this all day...
I haven't read this Norton (or any Norton, I believe) in totallity, who has? But the background information is GOLD and all the works compiled together is wonderfully overwhelming for any nerd! The works I have read, I have thoroughly enjoyed. I haven't met a Shakespearean play that I didn't enjoy on some level.
This, in my overly educated opinion, is the best scholarly edition of Shakespeare. It fancies up the Oxford. Annotations are plentiful... it never assumes you already know the meaning of beginner shakes vocab like "anon" or "coxcomb" haha, but it doesn't leave out the nerdly digressions about how Richard III wasn't really such a badass as all that. You can't take this book in the bathtub.
A great resource; it has all his plays and excellent notes on it. Not too many notes as many singular books of his plays have. Plus, I think one of my professors at college said that the text was the least tampered with in this version.
Read Richard III, Richard II, Henry V, Twelfth Night, The Merchant of Venice, Measure for Measure, Hamlet, King Lear, Macbeth, and Cymbeline in English 24: Shakespeare I taught by Professor Peter Saccio. Read (and taught) Romeo and Juliet in high school.
Plays I read from this compilation (in order of preference):OthelloA Midsummer Night's DreamHamletThe Merry Wives of WindsorThe TempestA Winter's TaleMuch Ado About NothingThe Taming of the ShrewKing Henry IV part I
Glorious edition, full of illuminating critical essays preceding each play. Accurate and insightful footnotes. Why didn't I rate it 5 stars? Because it's so freaking heavy and teeny tiny print makes it hard to read. And I get a little tired of Shakespeare's reoccuring sexual puns.
As can be expected from Norton, this is an excellent anthology. The editorial stuff is good.But it's huge and cumbersome and the print is tiny. If you're actually trying to read these plays for the first time, do yourself a favor and buy the individual paperback versions.
