https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/574071.April_Gold
April Gold!First I want to say that this isn't christian romance, it is faith-inspired story with a hint of romance.
It is a second book I have read by this author and I look forward to read many more.
Second, I really think the writing the characters were delightful and exciting!!!
This story is about a family that found happiness and fulfillment while rich, through the loss of it all and in the life as dirt-poor hardworking little family.
Mother Reed and Pat were adorable in their eagerness to stoop to the level of poor uneducated wild neighbors to share treats as well as God's hope of salvation with them.
The Reed family's circumstances took a drastic turn.
Mother, Thurlow, and Marilla need to move and find employment.
Will they survive their new circumstances in their new neighborhood?I've read many Grace Livingston Hill books, but I never picked up April Gold until the new publishing by Barbour.
Although Marilla is pictured on the cover, everyone in the Reed family is featured in this story.
I would say Thurlow is the lead character in April Gold.
It's a tale of how each of the Reeds overcome their new lifestyle - a move to a poor neighborhood and entering employment.
Hott Synopsis:The Reed family is down on it’s luck.
First, father died.
Then the bank closed it’s doors.
Then a small mortgage turned into a big problem.Now, they’re stuck with no jobs, not hope of returning to college, and no place to live.
Until mother remembers a small house that she’d forgotten they own.
It’s in one of the worst districts but it’s their only chance to make it.What is God’s plan for this loving family?Hott Review:I devoured this book!
Honestly, the only thing that reminded me that it wasn’t happening now was the mention of money.
This was my first encounter with G.L.H. I picked it up at the library many years ago because of its beautiful cover, I'm a sucker for a beautiful book. I even made a color copy of the cover and put it up on my wall. While G.L.H. is no Charlotte Bronte I still love her books, they are warm and comforting easy to read when I don't feel like concentrating or thinking to hard.
A Quickie ReviewWhat can I say about the writings of Grace Livingston Hill that I haven't already said? This one is a little different than her other works, but the same heart and message shine through. Fans of the late Mrs. Hill know what to expect...and that's just what they'll get.Score: 5/5
This was not my favorite, because the first two chapters or so felt very detached, like GHL was telling about the story, not telling the story, but after that it settled out nicely. I loved the story though, it was so sweet.
It's not a great novel by any stretch of the imagination but, like all of Grace Livingston Hill's books, is sweet, wholesome, entertaining and refreshing. Perfect for a rainy afternoon when you just want to escape into the 1930s.
I really enjoyed this book. I have read a lot of Grace Livingston Hill's books and I love reading her books. You don't have to worry about dirty language or sex scenes in any of her books. I love Christian theme romances and the message they portray to the readers.
It was very good. I have read it many times over the last 50 some odd years and still enjoy it.
Read it upon the recommendation of a friend so I finished it. I probably wouldn't have otherwise. It serves the purpose of a Christian romance. The writing left much to be desired.
As always Grace Livingston Hill presents a sweet uplifting Christian story.
Hill, Grace Livingston
My teeth hurt it was so sweet.
Lovely little GLH book following a theme found in some of her other books, in that a respectable family is thrown into dire straits and must make the best of it. Very sweet.
This book didn't really grab my attention, so I could put it down a lot.
I love her books.
Wonderful love story involving two couples.This compelling story of unexpected turns in life and fortunes will keep the reader turning the pages. The Christmas party was precious.
I read all of these books when I was young and found this one in a used book store so thought I would relive my youth. Wow - the writing is really bad!
This is not my favorite GLH book, but shows courage in the face of desperate times, which I like.
Grace Livingston Hill is my guilty pleasure...
I love Grace Livingston Hill's books, mainly because she writes from a different era.
Though the publishers tried to update her books by putting a 70's picture on the front, her stories are still set in the classic Grace Livingston Hill time period, the 30's and 40's.
This was a time in our history where life had rules, there was a distinct right and wrong, and classes of people were defined differently than today.
Grace Livingston Hill's books always have a beautiful and exciting love story, one where Christians and non-Christians lives collide.
I read her books to my 97 year old mother-in-law, Anna, and she relates in a different way than me.
They take to their new circumstances with a certain 'can do' attitude that shows the beautiful value of hard work, of being sufficient, and of making the best of things.Every time I read one of Grace's books, I come away with a new appreciation for life, and a dedication to want to live differently, to do better that I am.
While there are times Mrs. Reed is just too blind to the dangers of their new life, she still moves forward with an attitude of doing right being the only recourse - and in holding fast to those ideals, is of course rewarded.While the ending maybe isn't realistic, you come away with a happy sigh.
HistoryLife during hard times is liveable in the worst circumstances if we trust the Lord. Like silver that is cleaned from tarnish, the light of hope, peace, and contentment lit in us can shine giving the way for others
Slightly too conveniently sweet for my taste.
Sweet
