https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31931941-eliza-and-her-monsters
She drew so many monsters that she became a monster herself.
The only reason it's not 5 is that it took a little while for me to get into it.
But when I did, it completely blew me away.
I liked this even more than Zappia's Made You Up.I'm not going to lie to you - a huge part of my love for this book is because I related so much to Eliza.
So freaking much.
Well, except for the part where she's a talented webcomic artist and I'm not, but shhh.
Some of you know this, but others don'
Eliza's most valued friendships are online and, of course, her well-meaning parents fail to understand or consider them "real".It's a much darker book than I was first expecting.
As well as being about Eliza's anxiety, it's also about an issue that is becoming ever more relevant today, and it's an issue that I don't recall reading anything about before-- the relationship between an artist and their fans.
People start to expect a certain type of work and feel like her popularity means she owes the world (and them) something.
I took waaaaay too long to finish this book, but I honestly don't have any regrets about that. I actually think it lined up perfectly with something I'm facing in my own life right now, that's similar to what Eliza faced with being a creator online. I feel so connected and understood by this story and I'm glad I finally worked myself up to finishing it.
I finished a book for the first time in more than a month!!! Yay!!!! This was such a good read! It was so much more than I was expecting and just gripped me right from the beginning. Loved it!
The way Francesca Zappia handled the subject felt like locking eyes with someone in a crowded room and they smile at you and for just a moment—in the enormity of the universe—you two are connected.I’ve always been sort of socially anxious myself and sometimes it’s hard to decipher between when I’m being hesitant to go out because of anxiety or if this is just something I actually don’t want to do— when the lines between what you actually want and what the restless worry in your head wants wane and blurry then vanish completely.
She's quiet, wants to be left alone in her online world where she writes her webcomic: Monstrous Sea. She has two wonderful friends online that have helped her with her business.
They think her comic is a hobby, she never told them how famous or how much money she makes.
I do wish that Eliza would have been up front with them and I do wish that her parents would have taken the time to actually go online and read her comic and see how famous she actually was, but none of this happened.
4.5 STARS! I REALLY REALLY REALLY LOVED THIS READ(also gonna leave this review blank for now bc I MUST FILM A VIDEO REVIEW)
Once she does - sorry, once her brothers do for her - good ol’ mom and dad are more than understanding.I gave this book the benefit of the doubt for SO LONG because I thought character development would change the way she treats her family but nOOO, HER PARENTS WERE ACTUALLY IN THE WRONG ALL ALONG, AND IN TURN SO WAS I, MOTHER AND FATHER AND I ARE JUST THREE MORE FOOLS INHABITING THIS WORLD OF FURY AND NONSENSE.Not even the fun Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland kind.In the abundant free time Eliza doesn’t spend creating an inexplicably famous and successful web comic or ruining the lives of her family members, she’s living it up sexual tension-wise with a kid named Wallace.I support this relationship, but only because Eliza and Wallace both suck so equally that they were probably made for each other.
I just binge read this in a day. No regrets. 4.5 stars. As someone who isn't the biggest fan of contemporary, THIS is the kind of contemporary for me. It's a celebration of fandom and online life. It's like Fangirl on steroids. It deals with mental health, and negativity online beautifully. AND, one of the fandoms the protagonist was a part of is actually a real serial novel the author puts up on Wattpad and Tumblr. So cool. This is a love letter to fandom and I ADORED it.
I understand that it's a teenage thing to say parents don't get it, but they don't get it. It's not their fault they were born two and a half decades before me, but would it kill the to ask me what I'm doing on the phone before they assume it's something pointless?  This is maybe one of the best contemporaries I've ever read.  I mean, I read it in three sittings within the same five hours. Francesca Zappia: you're doing amazing, sweetie.♔ THEMES AND MENTAL ILLNESS  What good is a career that ma
If I have my phone out talking to you or my online friends, they think I'm ignoring them, or being disrespectful, or whatever.
I think this is a book I would recommend to parents as much as teenagers, just for how immersed I was in Eliza's experiences.
What's most important in a good contemporary for me is having interesting, well-developed characters.
She's fantastically developed and her character arc felt especially real to me.And I loved the romance!!
VERDICT: One of the best contemporaries I've read this year, with fantastic themes and characters.
fangirl: who are youeliza and her monsters: i’m you but stronger
3.8/5 Stars ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ “You found me in a constellation.” ― Francesca Zappia, Eliza and Her Monsters This book was an adequate distraction from my real life right now. Which is exams, pressure, exams, kill me, exams, fuck-my-life, death. I enjoyed reading 50 pages of this every day before I went to sleep after a stressful and straining day. We start off with Eliza, an unsociable, shy and introverted high school girl who is experiencing anxiety and depression and is closed off to the virtual world o
But that's about it.The only characters I liked were Eliza and Wallace.
We all closed off people who love books, tv shows, movie e.t.c. too much need people like this in our lives.I hate the everything-is-turning-out-amazing-and-nothing-is-wrong-and-everything-was-shit-as-fuck-throughout-the book-and-then-after-a-while-everything-solves-itself trope.
Characters do it for me in books, if I don't desperately till I fucking die love the characters, or if I don't furiously want to kill any of them till they bleed right in front of me, the book feels neutral to me.
I adored the world of  Monstrous Sea , I love it when writers explore more worlds within one book of theirs, I adored the fandom aspect, the artwork throughout, the little text messages Eliza had with her online friends.
I also absolutely adored the writing, the anxiety/depression rep, the themes of creating and art and writing, and how many illustrations were in this book.
And like I couldn't help comparing them a little as I read...and I definitely loved MYU more.
I felt really understood reading it and so many thoughts and feelings Eliza had were just like..."Okay wow this is creepy because this is me."And you know what's best?!
98% of Eliza's life is online and her parents are like "ok but they're not real friends." LOL @ YOU PARENTS.
[4.5 ⭐] My heart has been wrung out. I woke up with my heart feeling so full and being in pain. I need to drown my sorrows in ice cream. Haagen Dazs Strawberry Cheesecake, preferably.Gosh, this was so relatable!Pretty sure you all know what this is about, but just in case you don't, it's about Eliza and her world. The Sea Monsters. The fandom she's created and chose to write anonymously about. Her art. Which in turn becomes her life. She's more active online than she is in the real world. She's
Haagen Dazs Strawberry Cheesecake, preferably.Gosh, this was so relatable!Pretty sure you all know what this is about, but just in case you don't, it's about Eliza and her world.
Whilst reading, there were moments of just intense connection.
Or maybe I didn't want it to end and was craving for more, but I can absolutely see myself reading this again.
What has me annoyed though is how he reacted when he found out she was the creator, subsequently leading to him getting a book deal, which would only happen once Eliza completed it.I hated how he guilt-tripped her into trying to finish it, because it would sort out his life.
"Like life, what gives a story its meaning is the fact that it ends. Our stories have lives of their own—and it’s up to us to make them mean something." I think a part of me just died because this book is over. I don’t think I can process what is happening right now. I love this book so much I don’t think my heart is beating anymore. I’m still screaming my head off internally.This book dealt with so many social and emotional issues with such clarity and depth I don’t think it gets better than t
Eliza Mirk is the girl who is always invisible, the person who never talks to anyone else and lives in her own world, her life is a mess.But online she is LadyConstellation the creator of a web series that went viral.
Eliza created her ideal world to escape into and drew it out.Her parents also don’t know the extent of her online life.
They are not at all like Eliza, personality wise, but still found ways to understand her and accept their older sister for who she was in ways even her parents were negligent about.This book was not quite what I expected.
“You found me in a constellation.”  Friends, I loved this story. And if the ending was a little different, this would have been such an easy five star read. I love books centered on creators on the internet. While reading this, I was constantly reminded of one my favorite books of all time, Radio Silence by Alice Oseman. Which, I’m not really sure if here is any higher praise than to be compared to that book.But basically, this book is all about putting yourself out there, carving yourself a l
And this book follows two characters very invested with the same fandom➽ Eliza Mirk - AKA: LadyConstellation, creator of one of the biggest webcomics online, Monstrous Sea.➽ Wallace Warland - The new boy that just joined Eliza’s school halfway through senior year.
And these two meeting offline was one of the most heartwarming things I’ve read all year, even though Wallace has no idea just how much Eliza is invested in this fandom.
And not to bring up Radio Silence constantly, but this book also touches upon how school isn’t for everyone, no matter what people try to make you think.
The first Children of Hypnos book is currently available to read on Wattpad, and can be found here: https://www.wattpad.com/story/9547883...Monstrous Sea now has a short teaser also available on my Wattpad.
Pics/details here: https://www.instagram.com/p/BTR3ATeh8...————————————————————————I didn't do this for Made You Up but I'm doing it here because maybe someone will find the explanation helpful.Eliza and Her Monsters is a pretty personal story for me.
(Yet.)The second is Eliza's favorite book series, The Children of Hypnos, which is a real thing I wrote and am currently putting up on Tumblr and Wattpad (https://www.wattpad.com/story/9547883...).
i havent read a book with so much extra content since ‘illuminae.’ this totally makes me want to get into webcomics.
i really liked the main story of this book, but my attention was completely drawn into the webcomic eliza created.
i could relate to eliza on so many levels - this book is definitely one for the introverts out there.
its a really cool thing when a book is about something youve never experienced, but you relate to the character, so you feel really connected in something you know nothing about.i really wish this wasnt a standalone because i would read the crap out of this series.
Broken people don't hide from their monsters. Broken people let themselves be eaten.  I read this in one sitting and if that doesn't say something then I don't know what does. This really was one of the most relatable and entertaining books I've ever read. There was not one moment I was bored through reading it and as it was ending, I was hoping there was more but all I got was a final art piece in the end. I was completely hooked since the beginning.Eliza Mirk is the creator of the most famou
It lets us know what its like to face reality vs virtuality, real life vs the internet, real friends vs online friends, and the struggles of being a teenager who wants to do something she loves doing but is afraid of letting everyone know.
Besides the creative art Eliza can do, her talent, the idea of Monstrous Sea, and meeting a cute guy who writes fanfiction who looks like a football player, everything was relatable.
I would rather meet an online friend once for a couple hours than spend so much time with a real-life friend that doesn't understand my likes and interests.
......must........................reread......................can't........................resist.........////////////////////////////*I used my phone to type this review so I apologize for any mistakes or if some parts don't make sense lol*I'm not an artist but this book made me eat, sleep and live the life of two amazing characters :') The story was just absolutely beautiful.
We also get to read about the importance of family and how they cope with the technological world.
based on a bunch of reviews I've skimmed, I agree that this book did the FANDOM WORLD proud!
I loved reading about our main characters, Eliza and Wallace.
I loved reading about both of their families.
I went into this book expecting greatness, honestly. A book about fandoms, anxiety, and being a child of the internet? You already know I can get behind all of that. Plus, a romance that forms through written correspondence? MY LITERAL FAVORITE TROPE? Sign me up! … Unfortunately, though, Eliza wasn’t quite everything I hoped it would be. “I made Monstrous Sea because it's the story I wanted. I wanted a story like it, and I couldn't find one, so I created it myself.” → Eliza Mirk ←Eliza herself w
Don’t get me wrong, she’s not unredeemable – she portrays fantastic anxiety rep that I related really well to, and her affinity for the webcomic she has created and its subsequent fandom reaches levels of love that I think a lot of us can understand.
The storyline snippets, on the other hand, I thought were a little dull, and didn’t form a cohesive enough mini-story to bother with trying to follow closely, but I’m happy I got the physical formatting for the illustrations alone.→ final thoughts ←All in all, if you enjoy books that reference internet fandoms and online friends, as well as some really solid anxiety rep, I highly recommend this book, unless you have a problem with angsty, self-absorbed main characters.
I don’t think it’s normal for a book to take one hundred read pages to finally enjoy it.
Eliza doesn’t even want to make real life friends.Then she meets Wallace and it’s quite awkward between them and feels very online-ish too, what with him being unable to speak out loud and solely sharing his thoughts through writing.
I’m a reader, so I love writing, but I prefer verbal communication anytime.It got a lot better when Eliza started discussing her problems, or at least hinting at them, when more psychological themes surfaced.
It's awesome.Plot:Eliza Mirk is a famous teenage author of a comic online called Monstrous Sea. Online she is super famous and known as Lady Constellation, but in real life????
Then she meets, Wallace (my son!!!) who writes amazing fanfiction for Monstrous Sea and together they share their love for writing, art and Monstrous Sea. It's all great until her identity for Lady Constellation is revealed and she fears everything will fuck up.
SOME MILD SPOILERS AHEAD AND THEY ARE UNMARKED.WHY THIS BOOK IS AWESOME:●Online friendships are amazing: Eliza Mirk spends most of her time online writing and chatting with her friends of different ages who she has met online!!
4.5 STARS! THIS BOOK WAS SO ADORABLE AND I FEEL LIKE I FINISHED IT IN 24 HOURS AND I COULDNT STOP THINKING ABOUT IT AND I LOVED IT SO MUCH OMG
THIS WAS SO GREAT.
It definitely wasn't perfect, but this was a fun (but also meaningful) book and I'm glad I read it!
It's very relatable as a member of a fandom and an online creator who also feels anxiety about the stuff she posts online (yep, talking about me!
The art from Eliza's comic was super fun, but it didn't really add much to the story since the pages all seemed pretty disconnected and we never really get to understand the story and the world that she set up.
Other than that though, I loved this, and I read it pretty much in a single day!
"You found me in a constellation." *packs my stuff*Y’all can find me in a constellation because I'm outta here. What is Earth?? Wow. Who would’ve thought that picking this book up would make me forget the answer to 1+1. Who would’ve thought that picking this book up would make my skin clear. Who would’ve thought that picking this book up would make me hear colors. Who would’ve thought that picking this book up would make me question why no one gave me a "warning"  warn·ingˈ/wôrniNG/- a statemen
Wow. Who would’ve thought that picking this book up would make me forget the answer to 1+1.
In other words:  Never felt so unprepared in my whole life  That's what reading this book feels like.
○ It's about Eliza Mirk who is the creator of this famous web-comic called Monstrous Sea. She goes by the name: Lady Constellation.
She never told anyone in her life about the fact she's the mastermind behind the web-comic.
2. The characters  ○ I loved every single person in this book but let's be real.
Francesca Zappia, please create more lovely books like these.
SO QUOTABLE. SO RELATABLE. SO CUTE. SO SAD. SO SO SO GOOD.
I haven't related more to a character since Cath in Fangirl.
So, what is it that makes Eliza and her Monsters such an incredible book? Besides the fact that it was written by the Queen, herself ?? there are a lot of reasons. . .- #1: The Characters- Not only is there lots of diversity- BUT THE CHARACTERS ARE NERDS- We have Eliza herself as a comic artist- A guy who writes fanfiction- INTERNET FRIENDS- Annoying as hell little brothers - The introvert life- A reasonably dysfunctional yet caring family- The fandom life literally consumes their regular life -
. .-	#1: The Characters-	Not only is there lots of diversity-	BUT THE CHARACTERS ARE NERDS-	We have Eliza herself as a comic artist-	A guy who writes fanfiction-	INTERNET FRIENDS-	Annoying as hell little brothers -	The introvert life-	A reasonably dysfunctional yet caring family-	The fandom life literally consumes their regular life -	There’s nothing more I can ask for -	 -	#2 Accurate Mental Illness Representation-	Its not overbearing -	Its mentioned in snippets that are natural and seamless to her personality-	I learned years ago that it’s okay to do this.
Adorable. Intense. Nerdy AF.
4.75/5LOVED THIS BOOK!
