https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/119697.Red_Strangers
The first half of the book is told entirely of the perspective of African natives and their customs (including female circumcision and beliefs in magic and spirits).
I enjoyed the metaphors from the African perspective - Discovering the city of Nairobi had grown "swollen like a tick on the neck of a cow and the houses had grown upwards as quickly as eucalyptus trees." Or, "From the crowd arose a noise like the persistent chattering of flamingos by a lake." I can see the appeal to someone like Dawkins as even this book from 1939 shows the development of religion as a filling in of the details that man has trouble understanding.
Sometimes, when he prepared to go on a journey, men could hear him cracking his joints with a noise of thunder; at such times they would not dare to look up into the sky, lest they should glimpse his majesty and perish.The consideration that within a few years none will survive of those who remember the way of life that existed before the white man came was what led her to make the experiment of this book, wrote Huxley in her foreword.
I loved the fiction look into pre-colonial Kikuyu life.
I especially loved the point of view from which the story is told- that of the Kikuyu, evident in the title of the book: Red Strangers.
As opposed to the regular depictions of how strange pre-colonial Africa was to the European, Huxley shows just how strange, and utterly incomprehensible (dare I say, senseless), the Europeans and their ways were.
A passage I liked, that shows the idiocy of a prison system in dealing with wrongs, from pg 202: "The affair of the young man's death is between Karue and my father Waseru.
But by immersing us in the culture so completely our affiliation with it grows to a point where, when the Europeans appear, their customs (our own for the most part) are the ones that seem ludicrous and counter to logic.
You'll be surprised at how stupid and cruel money will seem after reading this book.If for no other reason check it out because of the glimpse it offers of a dying world and the revealing look at our own culture's arrogance towards practices it doesn't even try to understand.
One of the best books for getting inside a different culture. We see the world from the viewpoint of early 20th century Kikuyu people and how their world rapidly changes due to the arrival of English settlers. The charcters are well developed and for the most part sympathetic. Kikuyu culture is contrasted favorably with that of the settlers. It is hard to believe that the book dates from 1939 less than 50 years after the colonisation of Kenya began.(I read the original edition). Huxley also wrote the wonderful "Flame Trees of Thika" about growing up in Kenya.
More a fictional anthropological study of the Kikuyu at the time of contact with Western civilization than it is a story of human beings. Huxley is always a wonder on landscape but she's better with non-fiction. Read The Flame Trees of Thika and The Mottled Lizard instead.
It is amazingly written and immerses the reader right in the middle of the Kikuyu mindset such that when the Europeans arrive in the narrative, familiar European customs become almost unrecognizable to the reader.All throughout the book, I had little mental battles with myself.
But on the other hand, I also think that this is a natural consequence of the progress of science and technology.
This book makes me think on how one can advance science and technology and yet still be responsible in doing it.
Very interesting novel about four generations of a Kikuyu tribe, their customs, history, and relationship with the British colonialists. A good read to really explain the tribes life through interesting times.
You see all the details of daily life, customs, and decision-making as they transition from independent and self-sufficient culture ruled by magic and elders to colonized people ruled by "strangers" and the young.
As the book went on and I read, guns and motorcars became more powerful than magical charms and small pieces of metal (money) more valuable than goats; safety from war with the Masai is bought through danger of slavery and jail; and stronger women's rights were bought through the general political disempowerment of the Kikuyu people.
It makes me wonder if cultures with such different worldviews ever connect without huge sacrifices on one of the sides.
I simply loved this book. I have never read anything else that evokes the essence of a totally different culture quite so well. And on a more detailed level I loved trying to guess the identity of everyday Western objects from the Kikuyu descriptions. Such a fascinating insight into the realities and effects of colonialism. I am definitely seeking out Huxley's other books now. Well done Richard Dawkins for getting this book back into print.
This is a story of how the lives of a people (the Kikuyu) change with the arrival of British. The white man under his burden of "civilising" the "savages" imposes upon the beliefs and customs of the locals. The story transcends geopgraphy in terms of relevance because colonialists, wherever they ruled, left the local people with similar experiences. In that sense, this is as much a story of the Indian sub-continent as it is of a tribe in Africa.
I went on an African kick a while ago and read lots of curious and beautiful books about the "dark continent". This was among the better of these, and provides compelling insight into a very different way of life than most of us lead.
I read and loved The Flame Trees of Thika and its sequel years ago. It was only recently that I discovered this novel by Huxley, and it was like a visit from an old friend. Beautifully written, great characterization, an all-around good read.
Refreshingly different. A story about the forced colonisation of Kenya seen from two young Kenyans' (sometimes very funny) POV. Up close, nobody is sane... above all, the Red Strangers.
This book gets into the mind of the Kenyans who watched the British come, and is excellent for understanding African culture.
This is the epic story of 4 generations of family living in Kenya & the destructive forces of colonization.Another great true story of Elspeth Huxley's life in Africa.
Richard Dawkins recommended this in an article in The Believer (Sep 08)
A flawless illustration of beauty.
