https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/316333.The_Vocation_Lectures
السياسة في نظر ماكس فيبر تتناول أنماط النشاط ومساراته في سائر المجالات، فهناك سياسة معرفية، وهناك سياسة تعليمية وهناك سياسة ريفية أو مدينية لإحدى البلديات، إلا أن ماكس فيبر أوضح أنه معني من بين سائر السياسات بإدارة الاجتماع السياسي الذي يسمى الدولة وبالتأثير الذي تمارسه هذه السياسة أو تلك على الإدارة؛ بمعنى أن فيبر في تعريفه للدولة يستنبط ويشرح الخاصية المميزة لها وهي القوة، ولكن ليس أية قوة كما يمكن أن يتغنى بذلك بعض بطانة السوء اليوم الذين كانوا يحيطون ببعض رموز السلطوية المطلقة أو لا يزالون كما في سوريا؛ فعندما يتحدث فيبر عن القوة أو الإرغام فإنما يتناول مفهوم القوة الممكنة في المدى الطويل أي التي تتمتع بالمشروعية.
El libro se divide en dos partes: la política como vocación, en la que Weber analiza las cualidades que debe reunir alguien que quiera implicarse en la política; y la ciencia como vocación, en la que explica el sentido de la ciencia.
También analiza lo que debiera ser la estructura del estado y lo que distingue al funcionario del político u hombre de acción, así como la política de partidos, la cual él mismo rechaza en tanto en cuanto solo sirven para cazar cargos y tienen posturas muy inmovilistas, debido a la acumulación de "notables" en las altas esferas de los partidos, los que impiden el progreso de gente capaz que pueda desmontarles el tinglado.
Since I've had to write an essay about it I'll admit I'm too lazy to write a proper review !I'll just say a few things :- you may be familiar with Weber's theories on Politics, but his insight on science is as fascinating.
Which is, once again, very interesting.- This book is almost a century old and so many things are still so relevant.
Hum. Weber also - sort of - predicted what would happen in Germany in the 30s !To put it in a nutshell, it was a very interesting book and I do encourage everyone to read it.
However, the sin against the holy spirit of their profession begins where this striving for power is separated from the matter in hand and becomes an object purely of self-intoxication instead of something that enters exclusively into the service of their cause.
For ultimately, there are only two kinds of mortal sin in the field of politics: the lack of commitment to a cause and the lack of a sense of responsibility that is often, but not always identical with it.
Vanity, the need to thrust oneself center stage, is what is most likely to lead the politician into the temptation of committing either or both of these sins.
I have at times - in other works - Weber to be hard to read, but here it was quite easy.
The only downside to it all is that when reading and taking notes, you will inevitably find long paragraphs encompassing key arguments and not help but mark, in essence, entire pages.
But for anyone looking to find insight on not just the historical but also the current (and all too real and relateable) direction of science, scholarship, and political engagement this book, and the lectures contain within are must reads.
Мъка.
"Politics means a slow, powerful drilling through hard boards, with a mixture of passion and a sense of proportion.
But the man who can do this must be a leader, and not only that, he must also be a hero—in a very literal sense.
The only man who has a “vocation” for politics is one who is certain that his spirit will not be broken if the world, when looked at from his point of view, proves too stupid or base to accept what he wishes to offer it, and who, when faced with all that obduracy, can still say “Nevertheless!” despite everything."Enough said
En el libro se encuentran dos conferencias: una analiza la política como vocación y las cualidades que debería tener quién se quiera dedicar a ella. La segunda parte del libro es una crítica a la ciencias exactas y las distintas faces y cualidades que requiere un científico para ejercer su profesión. Del libro destaco el papel que juega la política y su relación con ética.
Due saggi fondamentali nella sociologia moderna. Certo, di non facile lettura ...
Il “fare scienza” si evoluto passando per la ricerca weberiana di una purezza della scienza, in particolare della sua branca sociale, intrinsecamente più problematica di qualsiasi altra: “Ogniqualvolta l’uomo di scienza mette innanzi il proprio giudizio di valore, cessa la perfetta intelligenza del fatto.” L’inizio del Novecento, come ben esaminato da Putnam in Fatto/Valore, fine di una dicotomia e da Sen, con il suo lavoro sull’intreccio tra etica ed economia, ha prodotto una netta distinzione tra giudizi fattuali e giudizi di valore che è tuttora ben radicata nel pensiero contemporaneo.
Also incredibly relevant is Weber's insistence that politics stay out of the lecture hall.
Ultimately, Weber takes a Neitzchean view of the world and sees the vocation of the scientist as a heroic one in which the scientist must strive for absolutely intellectual honesty while realizing that the fruits of his scientific pursuits might not give him any real answers to the major questions in life.
But overall, these lectures will lead you to think long and hard about what it means to pursue a life of the mind in the modern world.
La esencia pura de Weber. Lectura imprescindible para comprender su tan afamada postura sobre el estado, a la que hoy se le concede cierta veracidad, como aquella institución "que ostenta el monopolio de la violencia física legítima" y la interpretación de la política y la ciencia como dos disciplinas pasionales, complementarias y necesarias, organizadas en el libro en dos partes diferenciadas, ambas pertenecientes a lecturas independientes que realizó en formato de conferencia. El contenido es muy didáctico, y la estructura mezcla partes más técnicas con otras más divulgativas de forma muy natural.
La definición de Estado como "organización que reclama exitosamente para sí el monopolio de la violencia legítima", guay. Pensaba que el libro elaboraría un poco la teoría que se puede extraer de esa premisa (porque así es como utiliza Weber esa definición). En lugar de eso son páginas y páginas de chorradas sobre los deberes y virtudes del buen político, discusiones jurídicas y algunas citas salvables.La charla sobre la vocación científica me la debería haber saltado, porque tremendo tostón. No por complicada, sino por soporífera.
Max Weber com algumas idéias ainda atuais.Nem todas idéias são atuais, como a que se refere aos Quakers, no século XIX; ou, as críticas acerbas à filosofia de vida cristã.Entretanto, os comentários sobre os políticos profissionais ou suas críticas aos desvios inerentes ao sistema democrático, permitem algumas reflexões.Não é um "oh", mas um livro interessante e de leitura rápida ...Well, just my 2 cents :-)
The book is relatively dry in comparison to other major political theorists, however, Weber's supreme intellect was readily apparent throughout; making the read far more complex, driving the quality up.
The majority of my personal investigation resided in the "Politics as a Vocation" lecture.
The only man who has a "vocation" for politics is one who is certain that his spirit will not be broken if the world, when looked at from his point of view, proves too stupid or base to accept what he wishes to offer it, and who, when faced with all that obduracy, can still say "Nevertheless!" despite everything.
This is really an important, pioneering, condensed essay, which is still very relevant today. It is called a classical, not in vain.
Weber, as the token sociologist and founder of the field, critically and truthfully analyses politics as such:"The final result of political action often, no, even regularly, stands in completely inadequate and often even paradoxical relation to its original meaning.""For ultimately there are only two kinds of deadly sins in the field of politics: lack of objectivity and- -often but not always identical with it--irresponsibility." In the second set of lectures, Weber analyses science and in a very Nietzschean way comes to the conclusion that it gives us the relative 'how' of phenomena and never delivers us to us the 'why'.
Il fait des références à certains moments historiques qu'il peut être important de connaître au moins en gros pour mieux comprendre ce qu'il explique.Le travail de Max Weber est intéressant en certains points plus que dans d'autres.
Il essaie au maximum de ne pas donner son propre avis et de simplement expliquer les faits qu'il a constaté en les expliquant.Cet ouvrage est aussi intéressant pour comprendre la façon de penser et de travailler de l'époque, où il n'y avait pas les mêmes outils de travail et les mêmes mœurs et visions du monde.
Acestaa fost primul tex de pregatit pentru seminarul de Relatii Internationale (in engleza desigur) si care ne-a traumatizat ingrozitor pe toti un semestru intreg.
Aici Weber are un limbaj destul de greoi (desi se spune ca ar fi cel mai accesibil text al lui) si este destul de greu sa-l intelegi.Singurul lucru cu care am ramas in uma lui a fost tipurile de legitimitate, pe care le descrie si pe care am reusit sa le inteleg de la el.
In rest nada.
Bine, ca pana la sfarsitul facultatii ni se parea floare la ureche :)Nu vi-l recomand decat daca va intereseaza trasaturile de baza ale sistemului politic sau daca sunteti constransi de soarta asa ca mine!
Bon, plutôt sociologie que philosophie. Recueil de deux discours. On y trouve ce qu'on sait a priori de lui, mais en mieux expliqué (tout est toujours mieux que les a priori) : désenchantement du monde, domination etc.
I enjoyed this book more than The Communist Manifesto and thought it had some interesting points. Well written, but I think it falls into the category of not being specific enough. If the theories were more in-depth, I think it would have been stronger.
I actually was given a copy of "Politics as a Vocation" that doesn't include "Science", so technically I've only read half of this book. What I did read, however, was excellent. Weber's thoughts on politics and power changed the way I think about modern history and current events.
Max weber, tão simples mas revolucionário! <3é sem dúvidas um dos maiores de seu tempo!Weber, so simple, but revolutionary! <3definitely, he's one of the best of his timeMax weber, tan simples, mas revolucionario! <3 es sin duda un de los mayores de su tiempo
Providing an influential account of modern politics, power, leadership, and the role of the state, the essay “Politics as a Vocation” is a defining text in the field of political science; a greatly influential work on politics, power, the state, and political rule.
Probably the only politics and sociology book I've read which I enjoyed and learned interesting things about.
Dense. Complex. Difficult. Excellent food for thought.
Considering how long ago this book was written, it's surprising how actual some of the concerns are. I thought it was a good read considering it was a school obligation.
LA DEFINITION DE L'HOMME POLITIQUE ET DES PARTIS POLITIQUES MODERNES, UNE ETUDE COMPAREE PASSIONNANTE.
É um clássico da literatura política mundial, max weber realmente dá uma aula de Ciência Política, nessas poucas páginas, um mestre na arte da política.Nota: 7,5
Un llibre densíssim però molt interessant, que fins i tot en els passatges menys "universals" -és a dir, quan parla de qüestions polítiques molt concretes relatives a l'època- és enriquidor.
