https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18724.The_Painter_of_Signs
This one will cheer you up. It's not especially funny, but it's like going where the weather suits your clothes and meeting people that you like when you're there. I read three by R K Narayan and I had to stop, they were all so nice, all really charming and all as light as a summer breeze with hummingbirds stuck in it. I bet every one of R K Narayan's many books are just as good. You can't spend all your time reading good nice pretty novels though. You have to read some horrible ones too.
Also while Daisy is an empowered woman to us she is not exactly presented in a positive light as it is through Raman's eyes that we see her.
The only thing I liked about the book was that Daisy, resolute in what she wanted and completely sure of herself, didn't stay with Raman.
Besides, it didn't feel like this book was presenting a critique of the condition of Indian women even though that might have been the author's intention.
I don't know if (and how) people see it as a critique; I just couldn't.So, yes, I really did not like this book.
Raman, a signboard painter, is living a simple life staying with his pious Aunt. He wishes to be chastise and staying a brahmachari all his life... and here comes Daisy!Daisy, an ardent social worker for birth control and family planning, gets some signboards done by Raman ...and Raman goes head over heels for her. Now while Daisy leaves no stones upturned to convince and educate people on family planning, ironically Raman keeps daydreaming of his own "family planning" with Daisy! Branded with RKN's simplicity all over, this is one of the strongest female characters by him.
Narayan captures the mindset of a small-towner so well, without making Raman sound like a simpleton or a country bumpkin.
He deals with complicated subjects (in a conservative country like India in the 1970s) with aplomb - talking about sexual liberation and suppression, birth control, and staying together out of wedlock.There is quirky humour as well, which may not make you laugh out loud, but is good enough to make you smile and shake your head at the antics of Narayan's extremely relatable characters.Not in the same league as his best works, but still worthy of a 3.5ish star rating.
This short tale started out as an interesting journey to a world I know just a tiny bit about and wanted to learn more.
I see I read this at a time where I need some kind of guidance and thus felt that what Raman went through, felt, thought and how he reacted were all very understandable.
I know that if I had read this under other circumstances this book wouldn't have gotten such a high rating since I guess it's a little bit mild, doesn't go deep enough and there isn't enough action.
I thought this book was really lacking in substance.
Maybe I'm not bright enough to find the substance and it was an easy enough read, but I got done with it and just thought, "Well, nothing happened in that story." The other thing I thought was that the main character was really a jerk.
There was hardly any character development, so I didn't feel like I understood any of the characters.
The book was mildly funny at times, like many other reviewers on goodreads have mentioned but that alone wasn't enough for me.
I don't think I'll be picking up another of Narayan's writings any time soon.
A light read having the quintessential RK Narayan fiction, The painter of Signs is a story of Raman who treats himself as an artist and is a well read man of past thirty age.
Raman is a guy satisfied with his work and life, exploring his possibilities.Enter Ms Daisy, a sublime figure of modern lady who is both bold and mysterious.
He gets attracted to her and explores her past, which she shares with him only after a lot of efforts put up by Raman.
One expects Indian writers' books to always end on a positive and happy note.
In fact , I expected RK Narayan to keep up to that cliche.
But he surprises me with this book.
In this book he speaks about feminism and birth control .
He creates two powerful feminine characters who shatter a man's life in two different ways.
In a predominantly man's world, where Raman takes his aunt for granted and feels that his lover has an obligation to his emotional well being.Both defy him strongly.
But one could also feel pity for the character since he is not guilty of any crimes.
This book is another delight by Narayan. It dwells on the strong emotions and the intricacies of the human mind. I have been trying to pin point the reason I love Narayan's writings and just the simplicity and understanding of the mango people is enough to make him one the best Indian writers.
This book is the one of the subtlest books I have ever read, in the way it evokes emotions.
The phrase "painter of signs" will mildly irritate you forever after reading this book.
And obviously the book would be more relatable to Indians than to others.It was claimed on some corner of goodreads that his simplistic narration lacks punch for the matter written.
The book is written in a light-hearted manner and not a tragedy or a drama.
Though, if you are looking for a light-hearted, mildly-funny, Indian fiction short read, I couldn't recommend it enough.
I usually end up chuckling over so many of the passages from his books, and it’s rare that an author brings that out in me.
‘The Painter Of Signs,’ is a bit different though from Narayan’s other works.
While the trademark humor is still there, Narayan, for the first time, also draws his eye over India’s problems, especially that of over-population.
In the character of Daisy, I found bits of the only feminist leanings I have found in Narayan.
Together, the endearing love affair between the painter of signs, Raman, and the zealous population advocate Daisy forms the crux of the book.
The zeal of the government workers to sterilize the whole of India may seems funny in the novel.....but the dangerous side of the way things turned out is also underlined subtly here in the story via the character of Daisy, the love of Raman who is the actual 'painter of signs'....especially the painter of the popular Family Planning Sign, the red triangle.....we two, our two !Raman is shown as a person rooted in sexuality & intense passion, quite opposite to his lady love whose only aim in life seems to be, the sterilization of the Indian population.
A bachelor at thirty, Raman, is also bent on keeping women and their charms away from polluting his mind and that is how the book becomes super funny.
Another masterpiece where RKN portrays Indian society in the small towns so well like his many other books, the fears, the hopes, the aspirations and all that these characters had to live with in those times.
RKN deals with the subject of love and suppressed sex in his thirty year old protagonist with a tongue in cheek manner, but I guess it is still true of any youngster like Raman even today.
The Painter of Signs is a novel written by R.K.Narayan and yet again it is based in the city of Malgudi.For all of those people that don't know about Malgudi, it is a fictional city or town that has been created by R.K.Narayan himself.The Painter of Signs is a story based on a Signboard maker called Raman who meets a beautiful woman of his age named Daisy.
Now Raman has to decide whether he will postpone his wedding and go drop his Aunt there and say goodbye to her one last time or listen to the words of his beautiful wife Daisy who thinks that he should stay.Overall I liked this book because of the R.K Narayan's humour and the weird but entertaining relationship between Raman and his Aunt.
His fears, insecurities, dreams are all brought to life by the author.
We can see a little bit of ourselves in the painter as he tries to face life with a false sense of bravado.
The relationship is slowly brought to life by the author and at times while reading the book I felt the fear of the painter.
The issue of over population and need for population control is shown strongly through the female protagonist who is shown as a passionate crusader who is at war with Indians for their lack of self-control.
Narayan has a keen sense of capturing the subtitles of human relationships and the rhythms and sounds of the city, the taste and smells of food, the colour and movement of the crowds.
It’s clear that the city is growing and changing as the locals try to find some personal purpose within the juggernaut of “progress.”Torn between the traditional and the modern, the ‘hero’ of the tale represents the Indian everyman in a nation on the cusp of something far greater than the individual.
This is a beautiful work, and I couldn’t recommend it more highly.
My first time reading an R.K Narayan novel and I loved it.
Raman seems so uptight but he ends up groveling at Daisy's feet.
Some situations were so cringe-worthy and some outright hilarious (the scene at the police station)Daisy was so straight laced and at times, I felt she was insane in the way she talked to people regarding birth control and vasectomy.
And Raman's subtexts were hilarious too.
The best example being the 'wise man in the forest'.On the whole, an easy read that delights and frustrates you in turns.
This book was very well written and was a breeze to read. I really appreciated how well the author wrote in stream of consciousness without it being too distracting and messy. However, the book was really ruined for me when the main character, Raman, completely changed from the modest character the author had depicted to a rapist who would stop at nothing to bed his love interest, Daisy. The novel was definitely worth my time because the writing style was so unique--but the storyline was disappointing and inconsistent.
A delightful, very pleasant reading. A good and dynamic prose. Well set. Well-built characters (Raman, Daisy, Raman's aunt...). Fine and subtle sense of humor.I like how the author, Narayan, tries to empathize, tries to understand the not easy situation of Indian women in the twentieth century in India, both through his elderly and traditional aunt, and through Daisy, a young woman who fights hard for being independent.
I read on one of those a day long train journeys and finished it before I reached my destination. I did not notice time all along my travel.A classic Chekhovian style Novel is what all I can say. As always Mr. Narayan will take you to his very own Malgudi and gives you an experience of the wonderful old Indian Town.A must read if you like novels with Chekhovian style of ending...
Also, it partially inspired a song titled “Daisy” by my favorite musician, who draws a lot of her inspiration from world literature I’ll eventually get to.In his modern classic novel, "The Painter of Signs", Indian author R.K. Narayan explores the shifting post-independence cultural climate of India during the 1970’s through the bittersweet love story of Raman, a likeable painter of signs who was born, raised, and has established his life in Narayan’s famous fictitious South Indian town, Malgudi.
Thus, in The Painter of Signs, Narayan delves into the psyche of a mild, bachelor protagonist struggling to make sense of his personal orthodox expectations when faced with an intrusive semi-satire of intense Western modernism within the constantly evolving setting of 1970’s India.
“Most social talk was such meaningless jabber, which somehow comforted mankind with a sense of communication. He drank his coffee in silence.” RK Narayan is one of those rare gems that I allow myself to read no more than one of his novels each year. Say, if I were to read all his books quickly in a year, what will be there to look forward to in life? So, by reading a Narayan book a year, at least I’ll have a comfortable and pleasant decade ahead of me. Once I'm done with him, hopefully, I’ll un
RK Narayan is one of those rare gems that I allow myself to read no more than one of his novels each year.
Say, if I were to read all his books quickly in a year, what will be there to look forward to in life?
So, by reading a Narayan book a year, at least I’ll have a comfortable and pleasant decade ahead of me.
Or maybe all great writers share these extraordinary, suicidal themes in their works.
Final Verdict: If you could enjoy reading about idiosyncratic or perhaps borderline sociopaths falling in love, this is the book for you.
It revolves around the painter of signs who is born with but cares nothing about his traditional values over his selfish needs.
On the other hand, his love interest, Daisy, is nothing like him.
Having abandoned her family, she becomes a product of the missionary and chooses to live a life of simplicity and service.Although they are initially drawn towards each other, there is great distinction between the lifestyle of Raman, painter of signs, and Daisy.
Raman accepts what he gets...be it payment for his work from his clients , his aunt's sudden departure to Kashi forever, or Daisy's unreasonable demands.Maybe that is exactly the reason why she leaves him even when he agrees to everything to prevent a conflict of a lifetime.
Stuck in inner and outer conflicts of modern and traditional values and lifestyle, Raman, the protagonist of the novel, seeks a middle way to his problems.
But is it possible to live in harmony with two conflicting entities or rather mindsets that wouldn’t converge?
May be, it is possible, basis the degree of the polarity.
In the novel, it’s the obsession and love for Daisy that unearths the ravages of conflicts.A truly humane insightful and like other signature works of RK Narayan, the Painter of signs, carves a unique sign on your bookshelf.
I am Indian, but I've never been a prolific reader of my own countrymen.
I picked up this book from the local bookstore and thought it'd be a quick read.
The book picks up pace as the pages turn over and the way the character develops, it truly makes you care for them.
The description of India made by R.K. Narayan is excellent and being from that country made it easy for me to visualise the aspects that come with this geographic location.
That part about the Aunt leaving for pilgrimage was a heartbreaker for me and for that R.K.Narayan has my respects.
I felt myself being swept up immediately in Raman's mundane life at the start of this novel. Narayan writes Raman's story with the blunt and quipping remarks we all think on a daily basis but don't have the courage to say aloud. Even though it becomes much more difficult to like him towards the middle of the text, Narayan ties up all his themes, characters and jokes to form a rather pathetic but amusing end to this drab and funny little book.
Great short novel about a clash between modern ways of thinking and traditional life in India and between man and woman. It makes it clear that a strong dependency is often confining (mainly women), but total independence can be a burden as well. Raman and Daisy are intriguing characters, flawed but beautiful.
While I didn't like this one as much as "Swami and his friends", it is set in a completely different 70's India(Malgudi) and focuses on a youth growing up there. It highlights the mentality and problems of young India at that time wrapped by an interesting story setup. It was a belivable and captivating read, hard to put down towards the end.
What wonders me is the way in which the author has given the characters real life color. We could relate the characters in this story to the persons we come across in real life. The painter of Signs is a slow paced sardonic bittersweet tale of love in modern India!
I love the way each character has been sketched and explained in detail. Raman and Daisy are two people caught up two different worlds and the book beautifully describes it. Greatly enough it does not end in a typical happy ending and leave the reader with a feeling of 'ufff! it was this close'.
