https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/133526.Blueberries_for_Sal
I love the simple black and white illustrations in this book, and the subtle repetition of situations.Sal and her mother go out to pick blueberries.Unbeknowst to each other, Mother Bear has also taken her cub out to eat blueberries. And soon there is a mix up on the mountainside . . . This is a delightful book to read aloud to children, over and over. The illustrations are very evocative of a time that is now past, and yet is always present.
She is missing her baby on a blueberry mountain and she meets a bear and walks around calmly looking for her baby.
I guess that's the way to do it.I think the art is nice - mostly black and white illustrations.
The story is interesting and there is quite a bit of tension in it for kids.
Two parties go up a hill to pick blueberries and the afternoon gets interesting.
It's a solid story and I see it on many lists.
I think I like this better than the Caldecott winner for the year.The nephew thought this book was funny.
Partly for my niece and partly because of:Our neighbors Helen and Mike (second grandparents really) had five blueberry bushes while we were growing up.
Sometimes we would pick blueberries with them and sometimes we get a bowlful after Helen had given her family their share.
The narrator does a great job with the different voices of everyone in the story.
A couple moments made me laugh, but the whole time it made me smile and remember the fun I had picking my own (and time I got stung on the lip because I didn't know a bee had flown in the bush).Funny thing...
Robert McCloskey makes this story extremely cute as it strongly relates to the typical child mix-up scenario that some parents have whenever they go on a shopping expedition with their children and their children wandered off and the parent somehow ends up with someone else’s child.
Also, the images are mainly in black and white, which gives this book an old fashioned feel to the story, even though this book was actually made during the late 40s.“Blueberries for Sal” is a brilliant book for children who are huge fans of books that expressed the typical child mix-up escapade and who also love books done by Robert McCloskey.
When Sal and her mother go blueberrying, they are both too busy picking (or in Sal's case, eating) to keep an eye on one another. Coincidentally, another mother-and-child duo has the same problem at the same time...
I would probably recommend this book only with a caveat: I don't think it's suitable for kids who live in areas where there are actual bears; it could easily give them the wrong idea.This classic book is about a little girl who goes picking blueberries with her mother.
On Blueberry Hill, there's a bit of a mix-up, and Sal ends up following a mama bear while the little bear ends up following Sal's mother!
Written in 1948, Blueberries For Sal has received a Caldecott Honor.I’m surprised I never read this book as a child or even noticed it at the library when my own children were young.
The story surrounds a young girl named Sal who goes blueberry picking with her mother.
At the same time a mother bear and her young cub go blueberry eating to prepare for winter.
The adventures of little Sal and the baby bear while hunting for blueberries with their mothers are beautifully illustrated in this classic children’s book.
First of all, Sal looks like my most vivid memories of my sister when she was that age, so I love her.Second of all, what's not to love about a story of mistaken identity set in a blueberry patch?Third...Kuplink, kuplank, kuplunk.'nuff said.Oh...a nice addition to my unit on using prior knowledge to make predictions and help yourself understand a story. "Boys and girls, what kinds of animals like to eat blueberries?"
This is a fun story to read, with mirroring tales of the mamas and their babies. I like that it's illustrated in only black and white; the drawings are very vivid. And the story is fun, too, even though that situation in real life might end up being a sad story. Our girls enjoyed it too and it made me hungry for blueberries, yum!
My current three-year-old is always resistant to hearing this story read aloud to him, however, I talked him into hearing it when I told him there was a talking bear inside. He ended up enjoying the story, and I enjoyed reading it to him.
Such a delightful story!
3.5! cute as heck
Read this any time of year, but especially in late summer or early fall, before or after a berry-picking or berry-buying excursion.
Anyone who has ever picked berries in the wild will relate to this little larger-than-life adventure.
I treasure all those drives up into the hills of the Targhee National Forest with my mom, aunts, sisters, and cousins where we hiked into the huckleberry patches and heard the ping-ping-ping of berries hitting the bottom of our empty pails.
I never thought of seeing a bear.
Nowadays the patches are picked over early by commercial teams.
He has perfectly captured the innocence and drama of the little girl and little bear and the grandeur of the great outdoors.
I think I have read this book at least 30 times and I have bought 10 copies of it for friends out of state.
It is a must for anyone who has ever, lived in, worked in, visited, had realatives who live here, have a summer home in, or want to retires to the state of Maine.
It takes me back to when we could pick blueberries on our property twice each summer.
Sal is every child, enjoying the summer, outside in the fresh air with Mom, picking those blueberries.
I remember how I used to sit beside my mother while she would peel the peas out of the pea-pod and place them in a container for cooking and I would peel them off to eat the peas, contributing a few only when she gave me the look :PTwo things make this a great children book:1) Using symmetry in prose2) Showing how children are fearless unlike adultsSo true! :)
We're mixing classics with the wonderful new books these days and this is another favorite of my sons that is also loved by my grandsons. Little Sal and Little Bear mix up their mothers on Blueberry Hill and we loved the plink, plank plunk of the blueberries into the pail.
Adorable illustrations, but the only thing I could think about while reading the book was that reality would have been a completely different story altogether!
This mom is straight gangster. Turns around to see what she thought was a child was in fact a bear... doesn’t bat an eye. Finds child. Finishes her blueberry picking like the badass she is.
One of my favorites as a child.
"Kerplink, kerplank, kerplunk" as I was working on a unit study for Blueberries for Sal it stuck me that the words "kerplink, kerplank, kerplunk" all began with the letter K. Now wasn't there another book that had letter K words? Oh, yes, it was Klippity Klopby Ed Emberley The letter K was used in each of these books I believe to highlight the fact that these words are not actually considered words but letter sounds that represent a sound heard. kerplink, kerplank, kerplunk are the sounds heard
"Kerplink, kerplank, kerplunk" as I was working on a unit study for Blueberries for Sal it stuck me that the words "kerplink, kerplank, kerplunk" all began with the letter K.
Now wasn't there another book that had letter K words?
kerplink, kerplank, kerplunk are the sounds heard as Sal drops blueberries into her tin pail.
Klippity Klop is the sound of the horse's hoofs as the little Knight sets off on an adventure.Both delightful tales that children of all ages will love.
The connection between these two books will be appreciated by older children struggling to spell our complicated English language.Blueberries for Sal Unit Study
As a 1948 Caldecott Winner, this would be considered in the "classic category." The story, although old, holds the test of time as sweet and endearing.
The illustrations are beautifully done in black and white, and it tells a story of a mother and Sal (I say Sal instead of son/daughter because for this time, amazingly the gender is kept very neutral in this one - which I love!) going blueberry picking.
At the same time, a bear cub and mother are eating blueberries for the winter, and they do the same thing.
First sentence: One day, Little Sal went with her mother to Blueberry Hill to pick blueberries.Premise/plot: Little Sal and Little Bear both love, love, love to eat blueberries.
Little Sal's mother is picking blueberries to can for winter; Little Bear's mother is eating blueberries--and encouraging Little Bear to eat blueberries--so they can save up lots of fat for hibernating that winter.
Little Sal becomes tired, and ultimately becomes separated from her mother.
Little Bear also becomes separated.
Both follow clues to find their mothers...but a mix-up results anyway!My thoughts: I grew up listening to my mom read this one.
I managed to make it through childhood without reading Blueberries for Sal, so I don't have any fond memories to make it seem delightful now.
I think it probably is delightful, but Paul has an audio book version that he has been listening to on repeat and the voices make me crazy.
They're just fingernails on my personal blackboard.Plus it makes me kind of nuts that ALL the mother does is think about canning.
How can you spend a whole day picking blueberries and never think about anything other than canning?
There's got to be something else to think about.
I loved this book when I was a kid and I think it holds up well today. I long ago lost my original copy, but liked the book enough to buy it again as an adult so that I'd have it in my collection.
Terrific book for either young reader (or old too) or to read to your children, as I did.
I thought it was funny and had some fabulous drawings. The obvious parallels between Little Sal and Little Bear were great hits with the kids.
Just perfect and charming, still and always.
So mom picks berries without paying any attention to her child? Oh and when a bear comes, doesn't rush to find her child, but just casually looks for him? Um...okay...
This is just sweet. Yes, it is a bit old fashioned in some ways, but it made me and Alena smile.
What could be better than eating blueberries on a summer day?This is a realistic, fictional story about Little Sal and her mother picking blueberries on Blueberry Hill, in order to can them for winter.
Their story is paralleled by Little Bear and his mother who are eating blueberries to grow big and fat for winter.
These drawings will introduce children to the beauty of both art and nature, and allow pre-readers to follow the story.
Either way, reading this book will make you and your child as happy as if you were eating blueberries in a meadow.
