https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3334563-the-inkheart-trilogy
Some good characters, particularly Dustfinger, but Mo, Fenoglio, and Elinor are also swell.
Certainly good enough to get me to pick up the sequel, but not exceptional.Inkspell: 5 starsI was surprised at how much more I liked Inkspell.
As for the trilogy as a whole, I very much like the parent/child relationships and the love stories of Mo/Resa and Dustfinger/Roxane.
I'm a sucker for this kind of adventure story.By the way, there is a recap of Inkheart and Inkspell in the beginning and an index of characters in the back of Inkdeath, which is convenient if, like me, it's been a couple of years since you read Inkspell.
Confermo le quattro stelle date la prima volta che lo lessi....Il Mondo di Inchiostro mi affascina, e sarà sempre così.Ciao amici, ci rincontreremo ancora per viaggiare da un mondo, anzi, libro all'altro.
During reading: Once again, as with the previous books in this trilogy, I was forced to go back to the cast of characters time and again to keep them straight.
I read “Inkheart” after J.K. Rowling finished writing the Harry Potter series and I was looking for something similar to fill the void.
Some evil characters from a book called “Inkheart” seek out Meggie and Mo and that’s when the excitement begins.
“Inkspell” has characters from “Inkheart” returning to the “Inkworld” after spending ten years in Meggie and Mo’s world.
I love, love these books. They're great reads for fantasy. The whole concept is very creative, so cool I wish I'd come up with it! She's a great story teller with wonderful characters, her story is rich with it's own special world. You should check it out. But I'd recommend it on Audio book, Actor Brendan Fraiser reads book 2 and 3 himself and is a fantastic narrator! (He also plays the lead role of Moe the book Binder in the film version InkHeart as well)
Wow. I LOVED it!
What is it with Cornelia Funke?
captures you, and brings you into a world full of surprises.
They have an amazing depth to them, and it really seems almost like a real person.
Cornelia Funke doesn't tell a story like one you've heard before, believe me.
She uses feeling and emotions, along with a lot of contrasting, complicated people to create her plot in surprising ways.
Another interesting thing about her is that she doesn't tell her story about a single character, but a set of characters, and their world.
I loved it.
I loved it.
Talk about slogging through the mud! Man, good story concept, but way, way too wordy. By the 3rd book I was skimming just so I could get through it.
Una trilogia che appassiona, che ti trascina davvero in un altro mondo fatto di personaggi magnifici a cui non puoi non affezionarti ❤Ora che tutto è finito mi sento quasi come alla fine di un ciclo scolastico, quando dopo tanti anni passati insieme ci si allontana per intraprendere ognuno la propria strada, quando nel bene o nel male guardi già indietro con un pizzico di nostalgia e ci si interroga sul proprio futuro.Sono rimaste un sacco di domande, alcune delle quali hanno trovato risposta ne
Una trilogia che appassiona, che ti trascina davvero in un altro mondo fatto di personaggi magnifici
I really love books and as this story is about a family that really loves books (though with much more interesting reading abilities than my own) I had a kinship with the characters.I thought the first book was very fun and it had me attempting to read books aloud all the time.
They didn't conclusively resolve so as a reader I can still wonder about the many interesting ideas that were brought up.
I still am thinking about them.I also love how every chapter begins with a quote from another book (a lot of great classics).
Sometimes the quotes led me to pick up another story.
The first one took me a little time to get into, but after I was into it, I couldn't put the story away until I'd finished all three books.
The books are a little dark, but the story is so amazingly creatively and intricately woven that It couldn't stop reading until I knew how it would all turn out.
I wondered at times why I was in such a hurry to get the book read because I knew I'd be sad when it was over, and I was.
darkness; good against evil; and the power of love and relationships.
Sehr anschaulich erzählte Geschichte für Jugendliche.
Ich persönlich brauchte einige Zeit und etwa die Hälfte der 560 Seite um mich in der Handlung wohlzufühlen, das mag aber daran liegen, dass ich nicht zur eigentlichen Zielgruppe des Buches gehöre.Die Handlung war nicht übermäßig überraschend, jedoch spannend erzählt.
Besonders gefallen hat mir, wie Cornelia Funke über das Feuer spricht, nämlich als wäre es eine Person mit ganz eigenen Charakterzügen und eigenem Willen.
Daher war mein liebster Charakter auch die Figur des Staubfinger.Tintenherz hat zwei Folgebände, Tintenblut und Tintenherz, welche beide schon in meinem Regal stehen.Ich werde sie lesen, jedoch hat mich Tintenherz trotz guter Qualität leider nicht mit einem offenen Ende und dem unbedingten Gefühl zurückgelassen, die Fortsetzung im gleichen Atemzug aufschlagen zu wollen.
Of all the book series I have ever read, this was the most beautifully written.
With such vivid narration and completely unique ideas, reading books into life and being read into the books themselves, it takes storytelling onto a whole innovative level.
The scenes that are within the books are in reality those of a fantasy world, but when reading about them, they just seem so realistic.
The plot never bores you, in fact the more you read into the books, the more you are drawn not just into the characters, but into their very plot.
This series is exceptional beyond belief, and in my mind they are masterpieces.
I have read the Inkheart Trilogy 3 times now.
Unfortunately I finished reading it the third time just a view month ago.
That means, I have to wait at least two years until I can read it again :-(I love the world Cornelia Funke has built in her Trilogy.
I cannot tell you really, what I like the best about the books.
If you ask me any detail about them, I could not answer the questions (because I am so absorbt by the story, that I cannot think of anything anymore), but I remember a lot of good emotions related with the books.
My 15 year old grandson who reads mostly adult books grabbed the galley of INKDEATH and enjoyed a long flight. I would give the trilogy 5 stars as a whole. I wish the final volume had been tightened a little. The plot threads come together well in this fast paced conclusion of an outstanding fantasy series.
Wow. I will never see the world the same as I saw it before reading this book.
Cuore d'Inchiostro = 4.5 Veleno d'Inchiostro = 4.5 Alba d'Inchiostro = 3.5 In conclusione do all'intera raccolta 4.5
[I only read the first book in the trilogy.] Mixed feelings about this one.
I love the premise, which is that when certain people read books out loud, things from the stories come to life in our world.
I love a lot of the characters, especially Farid and the little marten with horns.
The ending was mostly satisfying, so I don't feel I'm left hanging if I don't read the rest of the trilogy, although it's easy to see there's plenty of scope for additional books.
Fin da subito il mio personaggio preferito è stato Dita di Polvere, ho provato grande empatia per lui, non riuscivo a giudicarlo per le sue iniziali scelte sbagliate poiché capivo che era solo un uomo disperato che avrebbe fatto di tutto pur di tornare a casa.
L'inizio non mi ha convinto per due motivi: prima cosa ho trovato Meggie una vera idiota per aver deciso di entrare nel libro dopo aver visto quanto suo padre avesse sofferto per aver perso la moglie nello stesso modo; seconda cosa che non mi sarei mai immaginata uno spirito libero come Dita di Polvere sposato e con due figlie.
Reading it for a second time. Very good books.
Cuore d'inchiostro (01/10-06/03): 4+/5Veleno d'inchiostro (07/03 - 17/03): 4,5/5Alba d'inchiostro (18/03 - 27/03): 4-/5
Lessi il primo libro di questa trilogia un anno fa e rimasi sbalordita dall'abilità dell'autrice nel descrivere e dar vita a mondi fantastici,tra cui il Mondo D'Inchiostro.
L'UNICA cosa che non mi è piaciuta è stata (SPOILER) la storia d'amore tra Meggie e Farid.
Mi piacevano moltissimo ma poi non mi è piaciuto per niente come si è comportata Meggie con lui,lasciandolo per andarsene con un altro!😰Concludo dicendo che STRACONSIGLIO questa trilogia soprattutto per le emozioni che suscita nel lettore e poi,ovviamente, per la bellezza della trama e dello stile.
At the end when Mo, Meggie and Resa were reunited i was so happy!
He accepted his fate and left, with Farid of course!Inkspell- Though i had to wait soo long after Inkheart came out to read this, it was totally worth the wait!
I was so excited to be able to explore the world of inkheart and not just hear the stories told by Resa.
The best part was definitly Dustfinger's reappearance into the book, but the most disappointing was Meggie and Farid's falling apart.
But this trilogy, fascinating story apart, highlights the love of books that becomes almost an obsession for some, escape for others.
To this day I still sleep with a book under my pillow if it holds a special place in my heart (not hardbacks of course, that would be uncomfortable) The quotations in the beginning of each chapter from stories far and wide, were pretty special too.
I remember making a list of all the books quoted in each chapter and trying to read them all.
Beautiful story, amazing concept.
It was still beautifully written, but I might have liked the trilogy a bit better if it had ended with the same feeling as Inkspell.
I'm not saying it wasn't good, it was still beautifully written.
But it kind of disappointed me.
However the "Later" chapter was lovely and I thought there were several clever twists to the plot- it was not a completely perfect happily-ever-after ending with the usual, predictable romance usually found in this type of book.
It ended on a kind of bittersweet note, with a romance I would never in a million years expected to change.
I understand trying to keep it PG, but if you give a man a gun and his family is in danger it's only reasonable that he uses it.
But no, none of the characters fight back.
They're all weak spineless people.
If someone is about to kill your daughter, you fight.
But their motivations aren't the problem, it is the way they are written.
They weren't written as pacifists or the sort.
I am usually not elated by such sights, but it showed that the characters grew.
They were no longer spineless!
Lo and behold, the twat didn't use it!
I like that Meggie finally realized Fahreed was "the wrong boy" as her father always knew.
Eleanor is a pip, and I am glad it is alluded to that she and Dorias may have gotten together in the end.
I love that DustFinger and Mo tapped into amazing sides of themselves and protected their families and all of Ombre from the Adderhead.
Jackapo, amazing the role he finally plays.
I like the themes of family and good vs.
evil, romantic love, power, etc.
Mostly I love the way it ends with Mo & Reesa's son dreaming of our world.
I have lost count how many times I've read these books over years.
Being a book worm, I love the idea of living in them, making them real with just a few whispers and changing fates with a couple of words.
I like the characters and their edginess.
As a child I valued Inkheart most, because it's the beginning of everything, the beginning of the characters and their lives.
It shows how the characters have grown and changed, it reveals even more of the world and persons one has come to love or hate in the previous books and it ties it all together.
Ok firstly: read this ages ago, so I can't quite remember every single detail.Inkheart - amazing.
By far the best book in the trilogy.
It was exciting, interesting, and made me want to read more.Inkspell - not as good, but still okay.
I loved Farid, and I don't think Meggie deserves him, but I guess that's my opinion.
Which brings me to Inkdeath .
ugh.Inkdeath - pure cowcrap.
Bad story, characters all went downhill, and Meggie broke Farid's heart over some guy who's name sounds like diarrhoe.
Those last two books are the reason no more movies were made.
I loved this trilogy and the sheer imagination of the author of having someone jumping into books and bringing characters out of them just by reading them aloud. I saw the movie Inkheart and thought of those actors (I thought they were great) as I read the trilogy. The story was interesting and unexpected (for me) and I really enjoyed the fact that I could jump into her imagination and let it take me for a ride.
This is the best trilogy I have ever read. These were the books that made me love reading. I couldn't put the books down until I had turned every last page. It's every bookworms dream to meet the characters of their favourite books and Cornelia made that possible through Inkheart. They are a definite read.
Read first one to my ten year old son..... We both really enjoyed it, but he found it a bit scary
