https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13100040-coventry
Dated a bit and pretty short for a novella, but I loved it
Honestly, this short story is truly one of my favorites of all time, ever. I need to re-read it again (but I've read it threes times since the first time in seventh grade). It is the perfect counterpoint to Ayn Rand's works and while no more philosophically correct, I love it for the anarchy of those on the other side of the barrier, for the choice of "learning the hard way" or reprogramming.
A short story. David MacKinnon, a romantic idealist, is convicted of assault in a society where a person’s action enjuries another individual is a crime. The government fears the individualist MacKinnon will repeat his action, he is given a choice: to be mentally fixed by psychologists, or go toan area known as Coventry, a rugged outland area beyond the Barrier, where people who refuse to abide by social norms are exiled. He chooses exile and discovers it isn’t the “paradise” he was expecting.
I am giving this 5 stars, because the book was written in 1940. It is a beautiful ring-composition of a story involving a fractured United States. But, as I have been reading these stories #1 through #21, I finally started getting burned out on this 1,000-page Space Opera.These three stories "If this goes on", "Coventry", and "Misfit" can all be found in the book "Revolt in 2100".
A nice short story to be read with/after 'If This Goes On-' showing that even after the theocratic society was toppled, several sprung up in its place that were far from utopias - a pretty realistic, sad view of what our struggle to find a good kind of order is like.
A story that examines society. It was okay, but I thought it was going a different way. Anyway, it is really about self discovery and one's place in society.Have a GoodReads.
The story starts with a man on trial.
This section of the story had a very hollywood feel.
Especially when the main character made an epic speech.
But the judge out did him and agreed to send him away instead of having his head re-programed.
I agree I would want my head re-programed but i'm happy to have it done to criminals.
I enjoyed this story and found it interesting.
They have a humane way of treat criminals.
But it's not perfect.
I also loved watching the main character change to a better person.
Well almost better person.
Humans aren't perfect.
Honestly I don't remember this book as much though I remember enjoying it. Heinlein paints an amazing world with a few short words.However I remember the beginning and ending but I can't judge the book so long after the book, I would reread it for sure.
