https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/835495.Time_for_Bed
A good bed time story for kids—but mostly because it's about going to bed.It's full of the following misinformation:• The "whole wide world" is actually NOT going to sleep.
Only your half of the world is going to sleep.
Or perhaps more accurately, "only approximately 1/24th of the world is going to sleep while approximately 7/24ths are asleep (less some 3rd shift workers)".• Some of these species do not care for their young.
And in fact would probably eat their young.• A "baby bee" does NOT look like a bee.
"Bee larvae"—Google it and inform your youngster about the facts of entomology.
Borrowed from Owlseyes, thanks!Mem Fox on being detained by US immigration: 'In that moment I loathed America'Mem Foxhttps://www.theguardian.com/commentis...
My two year old wants to read this every night.It makes a great board book and bedtime story. It has that "classic" feeling to it much like Goodnight Moon and Brown Bear Brown Bear.
Oh this book is such a delight. I've read so many picture books lately that are such rubbish, it was wonderful to read one of such high quality. The text was beautifully and simply written and illustrations were soft and reminiscent of nightfall. I read a copy online through open library, but I'm sure a hardcopy would be worth investing in if you have young children.
I hadn't realised this was a Mem Fox book until I was looking for a couple of little board books for Hugh for Christmas.
About halfway it changes from "it's time for bed" to "it's time to sleep", and it ends with a little girl being put to bed with the lines:The stars on high are shining bright--Sweet dreams, my darling, sleep well...Good night!It has a very soothing lullaby rhythm to it that makes it perfect for bedtime reading, though of course I'll happily read it whenever they bring it to me to read.
I only give it three stars because it is not totally accurate. For example, it says, "it's time for bed, little sheep, little sheep. The whole wide world is going to sleep" I know they needed this to rhyme but first of all, baby sheep are not called sheep but lambs--it teaches children the wrong word. And secondly, the whole wide world is not asleep. In France, they could be just waking up! I know, picky little things. But you may as well teach the children the correct things in the first place.
Gwyn approves. We read this four times tonight.
“Time For Bed”, illustrated by Jane Dyer, is a special book I imagine parents reading to infants, toddlers, and beyond; a warm part of tucking-in that families would cherish.
The purpose seems to be to show us one loving, warm tableau of an animal’s home life on each page, which Mem does indeed do well.
Floating, alliterative rhyming encourages potentially reluctant or distracted children that falling asleep at this moment is positive and timely.
When we say “whole world” to an infant, we mean the sky stretching above her home and the billions of life forms sharing the night of her environment.The dearest message is twofold: we aren’t alone in falling asleep.
Our favorite night-night book.
White text makes it semi-visible in a room with a night light, although this isn't really necessary because it's not a story.
It's a series of big animals lovingly telling little ones it's time for sleep.
We have books for play but this soothes a 2 year old off to dreamland.
I don't like the line towards the end "The very last kiss is almost here", and always change it on the fly, but so he still knows it's almost night-night kiss time.
Pictures: mouse, goose, cat, calf, foal, fish, sheep, bird, bee, snake, pup, deer, human (very blue-eyed blond).
The painted illustrations of the animal parents' gently attempting to get their child to sleep are adorable. The rhyming, repetitive story is soothing, but I think the snake's response is my favorite.... Good gracious me, you're still awake?! We can relate, mama snake!
This story is very sweet. This would be a perfect book to read to children before bedtime or naptime. I like how it went through different animals and their families getting ready for bed. This book has great illustrations and rhymes. A very sweet story!
Not much to say. Mostly unmemorable. Neither bad nor great.
Aprobado por la pequeña de la casa. Los dibujos son lindos, con muchos animales dando amor a sus pequeños antes de dormirles. No hay una historia en si.
I think this may replace our going to bed book once A one day gets down bed-time todos. Gorgeous illustrations and I love the prose and repetition.
I like it and more importantly, my granddaughter really likes it!
What I, his Mom, thinks.SON SAYS: I like it when my Mom reads this book to me even today when I'm 5 years old.
It makes me happy when my Mom reads this book to me.MOM SAYS: This is one of my all-time favorite books for wee little ones.
I think it's important for kids to respect and appreciate all life forms so I like that the book includes non-traditional and non-cute and fuzzy animals.When the children are very little and can't even focus on the book, the poems in the book are beautiful and when they get a bit older, the illustrations really keep their attention.Overall, I would argue that this is a must-have in every parent's library.For this and other reviews of children's books, please visit us at www.motherdaughterbookreviews.com
One of the best books to help your littles go to sleep. This book should be part of every parent and child's bedtime routine!The pictures are soft, warm, comfy-cozy, and comforting - all at the same time.The repetitive text, and the soothing illustrations, will help create the soft ambiance necesary for little ones to relax and go to sleep! My favorites are the pictures of the goose, cat, and dog families!
This is a sweet little bedtime book. I love the illustrations, and the length is perfect for our short and sleepy attention spans. No, the whole wide world does not all sleep at the same time, nor does it use the proper names for the respective baby animals, but I find I don't care about that one little bit when I am tucking that toddler into bed. There will be plenty of time for those discussions when we grow out of board books. One of my favorites for bedtime.
This is one of the best bedtime books I've ever read. My daughter and I read it every night. It is a sweet book about parents and children from the animal's points of view...until the end. When my daughter was first learning to talk she would point to the Mom and say 'Mama' and then point to me. She would do the same for the child in the book, except say 'baby'.Brings back many, many sweet memories for me.
Very sweet. We are reading this book every night now for Theodore. He loves it and it really puts him in the mood for sleep. We see and read about each animal being put to bed by its mommy or daddy animal. The stars and moon vary in each scene and Theodore likes finding the moon and pointing out which animals he sees. On the final pages are a little child and his/her mommy (can't really tell if it's a boy or girl). Very good effect on our little 2 year old.
Awesome book for a young childs bedtime! Time for Bed is a rhyming book that showcases several animals rhyming a sentence and telling their baby it's time for bed. The end of the book shows a Mother putting her baby to bed. Very sweet, very cute and the words all mesh well.Illustrations are okay, nothing real special but adequate. Julia, being almost 5, is a little old for this now I think. This is for the younger crowd, more along the lines of -3 or -4.
Lovely book to read at bed time or during quite/rest time in school. Children can also learn about different animals. It has some great rhyming words and I would ask the children to look or listen for the rhyming words.
My youngest one always saves this one for last. This book is one of the ones that inspired me to keep track of the books I read to the girls. It might be fun for them to someday see all the books they loved (or hated or were indifferent too) way back when.
This is a sweet bedtime story that is already being read to the baby {in utero}.
This beautiful book is a must read for all children!
This is my night time book. It has to be read to me every night before bed.
When I glanced over this on my own it seemed boring, but read aloud it has a very soothing rhythm. Recommended bed time reading! Not that it got my niece to sleep any faster...
Cute bedtime classic. All three grandchildren have it now. Ellie's March book.
Excellent bedtime story. Adorable and not too long.
I would recommend this book for parents to read before a nap or before they go to bed for the evening to help calm their mind.
The mood of the book is very soothing and calm and would relax children.
The book is mostly illustrations of different animals that are falling asleep.
I would not use this book in a classroom but would recommend it to parents who struggle putting their children to sleep.
One complaint about this book is that it does use the wrong vocabulary such as when the baby lamb is going to bed and they call it a sheep instead of a lamb.
