https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3367956-hotel-on-the-corner-of-bitter-and-sweet
"Hotel at the Corner of Bitter and Sweet" is as saccharine and overly sentimental as the title suggests.
There are some diamonds in the rough, though: the historical aspects of the novel are very interesting; the relationships depicted in the book, while not always believable, are complex; and, the issues related to cultural identity and racial discrimination in the States during WWII are very well detailed.
All in all, "Hotel" is a great story couched in an okay novel.
Ford is a promising writer who, I feel, needs to trust his readers more.
That is, he needs to let us feel without trying SO hard to manipulate those feelings.
Further, in that same paragraph, he tells us the main character's deceased wife is buried in the same cemetary with Bruce and Brandon Lee--and this is seven years before Brandon's death.I'm not the kind of reader that gets easily annoyed by poor detail editing--but I am annoyed when sloppy research (or a failure to do any sort of research) leads to misrepresentations of the setting.
I found this book to be very sloppy indeed.Edit posted: April 21, 2013After years of getting comments and feedback on this review, I will take the time to edit it for two important details.
Once the ball gets rolling, this book sweeps you up into the lives of two friends who made a promise to see each other again.The book begins as Henry Lee stands in front of the Panama Hotel.
As he stands watching, a simple act happens...the owner opens up a Japanese parasol.
For Henry Lee, the open parasol takes him back to the 1940s.
But there is one person who does not ignore him and that it a young Japanese girl named Keiko.
But then Keiko and her family are rounded up and she is whisked away.Henry wonders "Is this her Parasol?" Could more of her families belongings be inside?
It is the story of a young chinese boy who is thrown together with a young japanese girl in Seattle during WW2.
It is the story of their friendship/love, and also that of the other relationships that the boy has: his Chinese parents, a local black jazz musician, and later with his own son and son's fiance.
Very well written, and very touching.It gave an interesting insight into the Chinese views of the war, along with the effects, and the aftermath, of the Japanese internment on the Seattle area.
For me Jamie Ford's heralded, multiple award-winning Hotel on the Corner of Bitter and Sweet was an entirely luke warm reading experience from start to finish.
I just didn't feel the chill in Ford's words as much as I could and should have.Otherwise, it was a lovely story.
Certainly their relationship is sweet and I felt myself pulling for them, but I was pulling with all the strength and enthusiasm I would if I were pitted in a game of tug-o-war against a two year old.Regardless of my less than perfect reading experience, I think this would be a great book for someone looking for a 20th century historical romance.
Jamie Ford's Hotel on the Corner of Bitter and Sweet was an easy book to get swept into.
Henry Lee's search into his past is triggered by a discovery , at the Panama Hotel, of belongings from Japanese families who were sent to internment camps during WWII.
Among those belongings, Henry is hoping to find one specific memory which connects him to the love of his youth, the Japanese-American girl, Keiko Okabe.
Can Henry recover what he's lost 40 years ago?
Great to meet Jamie Ford at the High Plains Bookfest in Billings in October!
It sounded like the perfect book for my mood: Not too highfalutin or literary, but a good story I which I can immerse myself and escape to a different time and place.As I went on Goodreads a few days ago to add the book to my list of 'currently reading' however, I came across a number of really bad reviews.
I even read through this sentence on page 33: The sum total of Henry's Japanese friends happened to be a number that rhymed with hero.What?!?
That kind of writing is a word that rhymes with spit.Another 30 pages into the book and I thought: why bother?
(view spoiler)[ In one, after the Japanese had all been trucked away a heartsick Sheldon (Henry’s musician friend) takes his sax & performs a concert to a ghost town - I could almost hear his soulful melody echoing in the silent streets.
(hide spoiler)]It shone exploring the dynamics of a typical Chinese American family.
Still, a glaring omission was the lack of detail on what happened to Keiko’s family after their release  (hide spoiler)] As a romance this is a 4 star read,  for plot & character development a 3.
Set in Seattle, Hotel on the Corner of Bitter and Sweet tells of the forbidden friendship between a Chinese-American boy named Henry Lee and a Japanese-American girl named Keiko Okabe during the Second World War. Henry and Keiko are both just twelve years old when they become friends in 1942.
This novel is set during two time periods, the 1940's and 1986.
Before reading this book, I knew nothing about how badly the Japanese in America were treated during the war.
I really loved the characters of Henry, Keiko and Sheldon, and really cared about what happened to them.
It is set against the politically tumultuous period of World War II, where we experience the alienation forces between the Chinese, Japanese and America people as they live together in the United States.
As a consequence Japanese immigrants are interned in camps, their personal belongings are stored in the Hotel on the Corner, The Panama Hotel, and their remaining properties and businesses are looted.The story covers an aspect of the war that I hadn’t really appreciated, how Japanese immigrants were treated in the United States after the bombing of Pearl Harbour.
But I had heard so many good things about THE HOTEL ON THE CORNER OF BITTER AND SWEET that I bought it, though I sat on it a while before I cracked it open to read.
Once I did, I was hooked instantly by the wonderful character of Henry Lee, a 12-year-old boy in Seattle's Chinatown during the early years of America's involvement in WWII.
I so enjoyed seeing the boy Henry was (in the 1940s) interspersed with more modern chapters (1980s) so I also viewed the man he became.
A sweet and eye-opening tale about love and humanity during an uncivil era.
Hotel on the Corner of Bitter and Sweet by Jamie Ford, Release Date 1/27/2009, $24.00 I've just finished reading Jamie Ford's forthcoming novel, Hotel on the Corner of Bitter and Sweet, and am still basking in the glow.
The characters are fully realized, the title is a real attention grabber, and the story fleshed out with plenty of local and period detail.
I think Henry and Keiko are two of the most engaging characters I've come across in a long while and I will not soon forget them, nor Sheldon, the saxophone player who befreinds them.
I'm not the type of reader that necessarily longs for a happy ending, but this one certainly satisfies.
Beautiful love story in wartime USA. I had no idea how the Japanese were treated in the USA during the war, but of course it was no different from how other countries treated the enemies that lived among them. The only thing I didn't like was that Henry was portrayed as an 80 year old while he was only 56 in the story.
I am ChineseThis was a touching story of friendship, love and loss. I enjoyed this very much. Great characters, rich history and beautifully written. My local library picked this as the second book in their book club. I'm looking forward to seeing what everyone thinks of it.
Perhaps I could attend the Tehran Book Festival.”You see I would love to visit your country.I’ve had friends travel to Iran in the past and they’ve told me wonderful things—about the history, the culture, and especially the kind and generous people.Also, whenever the leaders of my country say there’s someplace Americans shouldn’t go, I want to go there even more.Because I believe literature can, and should, transcend politics.
شاید بتوانم در نمایشگاه کتاب تهران شرکت کنم.»می‌دانید، خیلی دوست دارم کشور شما را ببینم.بعضی از دوستانم پیش از این به ایران سفر کرده و چیزهای شگفت‌انگیزی تعریف کرده‌اند؛ از تاریخ، فرهنگ و مخصوصاً از مردم مهربان و سخاوتمندش.همچنین، هر وقت رهبران کشور من می‌گویند ایران جایی است که بهتر است آمریکایی‌ها به آن سفر نکنند، من بیشتر مشتاق این سفر می‌شوم.
Okay, I am not the target audience for this book.
I know about the internment camps.
I suspect, though I don’t know, that the author did not mean to write about the Japanese internment.
The most he can come up with is "beloved president Reagan apologized." When asked if he saw a parallel between the calls to close the border or remove Muslim Americans, he seemed astonished that there might be one.
It’s about a guy who meets a girl, falls in love with a girl, loses a girl to the Japanese internment and his father’s racism, and moves on to be a good husband to a different woman.
I'm always seeing those posts on Facebook of kids of different cultures and races playing together, hugging each other and only seeing what they love.
These are messages to the wider world that adults shouldn't really be imposing their racist, prejudicial fears on their kids.
Henry and Keiko are 2 such beautiful little souls.
In 1942, while the world is fighting and killing each other these two are just managing to get through the day without being picked on, smacked around or abused because one is Chinese and the other, God forbid is Japanese.
The story (Henry's story) unfolds back and forth between 1942 and 1986 and I absolutely loved it
To tell the tale of Henery Lee an intelligent, brave, 12yr old Chinese American quickly growing into a man thru struggling WWII times.
This is a rare book find for me as a closer look into the Japanese and Chinese American citizens and the bigotry and hatred they endured, because the country thought any could be spies.
Was a powerful look into American history as hearts and humanity broke down, inflicted by war and the damage to repair years after as relationships try to mend.Not very many books have made me read thru tears but this was such a profound story that needed to be written, with characters believable and heroic.
No. Just, no.I had pretty much decided to abandon this book unfinished when I received notification that the audiobook I had requested from the library was now available for download.
Well, that clinched it.
And so, in the style of Goodnight Moon, I am bidding this book good-bye.
Good-bye book.
Good-bye hopelessly twee title (which should have been a clue).
Good-bye, poor cliched struggling immigrant adolescent Henry.
Good-bye, clearly doomed age-inappropriate romance.
Good-bye, Henry's efforts to dodge the one-dimensional evil bullies.
Good-bye, contrived coincidences.
Good-bye, stock characters.
Good-bye, goodreaders everywhere whose ratings of this book averaged out to 3.9.
Wow, just wow. This book was masterfully told and while it started slow, it built into a crescendo of feelings and emotions. The character development was amazing, the storyline outstanding, and the writing masterful.Recommend this. Pick it up, read it.
Sometimes the reader annoyed me when he said the main character's (Henry's) words with a Chinese accent (inconsistently at that!) ....
I know that with fiction, readers are expected to suspend belief, but not about FACTS!The author said, at the end, that he did not intend to make this book about the internment camps...but perhaps he should have put that statement at the beginning because I think maybe people were expecting that to be the focus of this book...Had this been a "paper" book, or if I had had another audiobook available, I probably would have abandoned it after 50 pages -- if I had even gotten that far!
Great book. I love novels based on historical fact. I finished it in just a day and a half. Hard to believe it is a first novel. I am looking forward to more from this author. I looked up some of the people and places mentioned in the book, just to see if they were real - and was pleased to find that they were. Of course if I had read the acknolwedgements at the end of the book I would have known that already.
After reading how many people absolutely adore this book, I almost feel a little guilty giving it a "meh" review.
The story of Henry and Keiko's relationship is a very sweet, heartwarming one (if not entirely realistic at age 12-ish).
Mrs. Beatty is a character who I would have enjoyed getting to "know" better; for someone who was a pretty crusty lady, she seemed to have a lot of compassion beneath that exterior.Then, the bad: Anachronisms.
Mrs. Beatty seemed underdeveloped as a character- as did Mr. Okabe and even Sheldon.
Hotel made me cry, made me laugh and brought me joy. It's a beautifully written and tender story about first love, the human experience surrounding racial divides, generational conflicts, and the internment of Japanese Americans. You won't be disappointed with Hotel.
Great title and a great book! It took me a while because of changing residences, but that way I was able to stretch out the enjoyment factor. The book not only brings to the forefront a dark time in US history, but the story is sweetened by the fully fleshed-out characters and the swirl of events in which they find themselves. These are characters you're not likely to forget. Highly recommended.
Após o ataque japonês à base norte-americana de Pearl Harbor, situada no Pacífico, os japoneses - nos quais se encontram Keiko - foram enviados para campos de internamento, desapossados dos seus bens, dos seus amigos (não japoneses) e das suas rotinas.
O que é que os japoneses (entre os quais se contavam crianças, note-se) que viviam nos EUA, muitos dos quais desde sempre, outros tendo aí nascido tinham a ver com o ataque a Pearl Harbor...?
This is a story of a 1st generation Chinese American boy named Henry in 1942 Seattle.
Though Henry's father has a passionate hatred for the Japanese, Henry develops a sweet, deep and secretive friendship with her.Then the president of the USA signs an executive order to round up Japanese Americans and "evacuate" them to internment camps across the western half of the United States.
Henry must come to grips with losing his new best friend while trying to understand why or how such an appalling act could be happening to the Japanese Americans.This book was certainly an eye opener as I already stated.
Gostei muito deste livro. Um livro doce e tão bonito que nos faz pensar que somos uns sortudos em termos nascido na época em que nascemos. Um escrita agradável com uma história bonita que nos faz acreditar que a amizade e o amor pode quebrar barreiras e fazer com que o mundo seja um sitio mais bonita para se viver. Recomendo a quem ainda não leu
It's one of those stories that opens the reader's eyes to a significant event in time but in a nonjudgemental way.
It allows one to understand the facts and events from different perspectives.
I find this writing style refreshing as it allows the reader to come to their own judgments rather than being force fed a particular view.The story takes place in Seattle during WW2.
While attending an English school and being the only person of Chinese decent, he befriends Keyko, a Japanese American student.
We watch the impact of the Japanese roundup and imprisonment at intern camps through the eyes of Henry as he witnesses the atrocities that Keyko's family experiences.
The subject matter of this novel had a great deal of potential, but Jamie Ford never managed to make me care what happened to these stilted, boring characters. I sometimes wonder how such books become bestsellers. I have absolutely no doubt that I will have forgotten everything about this book by this time next week.
