https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13611384-wasps-nest
أول بداية في عالم آجاثا كريستي البوليسي والمشوق.. والبداية بقصة قصيرة بعنوان "عش الزنابير" وبطلها المُفتش بوارو الذكي جداً ودقيق الملاحظة.. وصديقه "جون هاريسن".. رغم قصر القصة جداً فهي لا تتعدى 30 صفحة.. ولكنها جيدة جداً ومُشوقة للغاية.. ويعجبني جداً الجرائم التي تُحل بواسطة العلم والملاحظات الدقيقة جداً.مُلخص القصة في الجملة التي قالها بوارو:"اسمع يا صديقي إنك رجل يحتضر، وقد فقدت الفتاة التي أحببتها، ولكن شيئاً واحداً لا يُمكن أن تكونه.. فأنت لست قاتلاً".
Not much to say here at all except Masterpieces in Miniature is correct. One of my all time favourite AC short stories. I really wish this was adapted into a longer novel; I adored the tv episode of this one with David Suchet as Poirot too :)
Agatha Christie takes her man, Hercule Poirot, to a little village so he can prevent murder.Poirot goes to visit an aquaintance at his home to warn him of murder.
He points out little details of how he comes across the signature of a man that is due to visit Poirot's acquaintance later that same evening.
Poirot feels it is his duty to prevent murder and must let his acquaintance know that he understands what is going to happen.
what else does Hercule Poirot find?This story was short.
This story is worth reading if you are a fan of Agatha Christie.
I am telling you, those little grey cells always win
Loved it! Very interesting story, I just love the Hercules Poirot tales. Clean and intriguing, they never fail to entertain. More, please, anytime.
Good short story
Poirot visits a friend and warns him that he is in danger of being murdered.
The motive: the man who is taking care of a wasps' nest is an ex- of the woman the friend is currently with.
Poirot learns of the time the ex- is supposed to come by and promises to return at that time.He does, and reveals the prevention of a crime.Who done it?
(view spoiler)[ Poirot prevents the murder of the ex-.
The friend had directed the ex- to get dangerous poison, instead of a method otherwise endorsed.
The plan was to commit suicide, but have the ex- blamed for murder.
(hide spoiler)]
This is a f-up story, indeed, pardon my French! Its deviant the way this bloke decided to part with his connections and life. Pity it is so short but it was also brilliantly detailed and done in the show. The lady of the story is the worst type of woman, at least in my book. Poirot is the man here, super serious, adroit and quick-witted.
This is a slim story that nevertheless proves once again Dame Christie's talent for ingenious plots.In a matter of just a few minutes, she manages to completely turn the tables on the reader and defy what has been so cleverly set up.It's a classic example of the bait-and switch structure that she perfected over the years.
Basically, there's a man named John Harrison (Star Trek Into Darkness, anyone?) who Poirot visits out in the country. He tells him that he's on a murder case...a murder that hasn't been committed yet. Dun Dun DUUUUUN. Yeah go and read it. It's a quick, delightful read (and I was still surprised by the conclusion because apparently Christie is a wizard).
Un relato corto pero muy interesante. Curioso como Poirot y su método de observación nos lleva a crear nuestras propias hipótesis pero raramente acertamos con lo realmente ocurrido. Un buen caso y con gran final.
"I'm gonna read a short story".."well that was short.."
A bit of a twist...
An excellent short story by an excellent author.
