https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/106316.This_is_My_God
It is thoughtful, insightful, entertaining and sensitively explains Judaism to a broad readershipThis is not simply a guide to the Jewish religion .Herman Wouk-a well known novelist and playwright - is clearly a man of the world but is also an observant JewHe speaks about his own illuminating insights and experiencesWritten in 1959 it is still equally relevant today as then .
He points out the contradiction of leftwing secularists who claim that their rejection of religion is a result of the conformity in inherent therein , when their own entire ways of life and thought processes are based on conformityHe explains a conversation he had with a radical young student thus:`She had been reading sociology and was full of terms like anomy , other-directedness , acculturation and similar jaw-breakers which she got off with athletic ease.
Bought for 25-cents from the withdrawn section at the library.A favorite quote:“Religious people tend to encounter, among those who are not, a cemented certainty that belief in God is a crutch for the weak and the fearful.
It would be just as silly to assert that disbelief in God is a crutch for the immoral and the ill-read.....Now the belief in God may turn out at the last trump to be a mistake.
But in the country of the halt, the man who is surest he has no limp may be the worst-crippled." -- Herman Wouk, from This Is My God: The Jewish Way of Life
It is thoughtful, insightful, entertaining and sensitively explains Judaism to a broad readershipThis is not simply a guide to the Jewish religion .Herman Wouk-a well known novelist and playwright - is clearly a man of the world but is also an observant JewHe speaks about his own illuminating insights and experiencesWritten in 1959 it is still equally relevant today as then .
He points out the contradiction of leftwing secularists who claim that their rejection of religion is a result of the conformity in inherent therein , when their own entire ways of life and thought processes are based on conformityHe explains a conversation he had with a radical young student thus:`She had been reading sociology and was full of terms like anomy , other-directedness , acculturation and similar jaw-breakers which she got off with athletic ease.
Herman Wouk's appeal for Orthodox Judaism is sincere, but ultimately uneven.
He's at his finest when he's arguing against the naturalistic atheism that's come in and out of fashion, but is now absolutely dominant in the western world.
And it's a proven winner: Its rituals keep divinity constantly in mind, and they've managed to preserve a scattered and persecuted nation since the dawn of history.
He accepts that the non-Haredi orthodox, for their part, can't simply assume the dominance of law, and must meet Western modernity half way through an education that combines religious and secular studies.
And he foresees that Zionism without religion will create just another nationalism.
Although, written work on Judaism can go into volumes of work, with this as a concise work of writing the author has done a pretty good job.The book is divided into four sections:1.
THE LAW deals with information related to the Torah, the Talmud, a section on "Jewish Common Law", and the times "From the Talmud to the Present".4.
THE PRESENT deals with Orthodoxy, Dissent, and Israel (as in the time of the book's writing, as in 1959).The book does a good job of introducing to a reader (Jewish and non-Jewish) what the Jewish Way of Life is, what this religion brings about from within a human being.
This is an excellent book!
I learned so much from it, and not just about the Judaism.
I learned about principles that help one lead a good life, not always an easy life, but a life of value and depth.
And yes, I learned a lot about judaism.
Wouk is a thinker of the highest caliber and has a wonderful way of expressing his points.
Still, this was not an easy read for me, nor was it a fast read, but the further I got into it the less that mattered.
I was enjoying the journey through this book and was sad when I came to the end.

In this, the only work of non-fiction Wouk ever published, he delves into the Jewish faith and explains it to the non-practicing Jew and the non-Jew.This work is exceptionally written because it was obviously the work of a man whose faith was important to him.
I would highly recommend this work to anyone interested in the Jewish faith or the practice of Orthodox Judaism.
An excellent overview of Judaism past and present (well, present-ish), in brief chapters that allowed for reading in bits whenever I had a few moments. Well written and informative.
An introduction to the Jewish faith written for secular Jews and curious others.
It was also interesting how the author would sometimes referred to a commentary author who had written centuries earlier as if he were a close personal friend - presumably from spending so much time reading his words, and being immersed in this overall conversation.Since I don't know much about the Jewish faith I can't speak to this book's accuracy, but I can say it was very well-written, clear, and interesting to read.
This book summarizes the Jewish religion, written "for people who have at least an open mind on God, and who would like to know something about the Jewish way to him." In it, Wouk reminds me of C.S. Lewis, using a clear, conversational writing style and employing numerous analogies to make his points accessible.
He even engages in a great deal of apology, although he insists that Jews do not seek to convert anyone.
Of course, even the updated version I read is a couple decades old at this point, and so I am sure that the information is not completely up to date in terms of modern practice.
Nevertheless, it was a very interesting and informative read.
Judaism is a massive subject, and condensing the millennia of Jewish thought into a single volume is no small feat.
Needless to say, this book only scratches the surface of Jewish culture, history, faith, and practice, but it is a great starting point for anyone who wants to know more about the subject.
It is undoubtedly the simplest yet most comprehensive work on Judaism that it has been my pleasure to read.
Written as a devouit believer who felt that hsi religion was something that far transcended the Holacaust, having meaning and merit for all peoples to understand and admire.
Using all of his writers skills he lays out the beliefs and rituals of the Jewish peoples in terms to which all peoples can relate.
I have been a great admirer of the Jewish peoples ever since my school years and cherish the friendships I have had and still have with my Jewsih brethern.
Upon reading you may well feel the same.
It's been a few years since I read this book, but one chapter still stands out to me: the chapter on the Sabbath.
Wouk's depiction of the Jewish day of rest is equally as reverent for the ritual as it is unashamed of it.
He describes his Sabbath experience as a truly empowering and spiritually nourishing sacrifice, and in a way that is unapologetic to our American 7-day-a-week, time-is-money paradigm.
I hold other religious convictions close to me, but I wish I had an easier time being unapologetic about them as Wouk does.
And I am working toward applying sabbath worship more in my own life.
I loved the theology in the first half (especially the chapter on the Sabbath), and it was refreshing to read the frankness of Wouk's personal beliefs. I had to trudge/fall asleep a bit through the legal theory and legal history; I'm out of practice I guess.
I read this many years ago and have a purchased copy. It is valuable to both Jewish people and non-Jewish, as a means to acquaint and educate about a broad variety of religious practices and beliefs.
Would love to see this packaged with The Will to Live On.
Although Wouk initially wrote for a more casual Jewish audience, I admire this book from my point of view as a Christian.
It was a timely, energetic reminder for the parts of my own religion that I tend to be more casual towards.Wouk originally wrote the book in 1959, and has added a few footnotes to update his more recent commentary and his very brief history of the state of Israel (although his last update is from 1987).
The age of the book, and his Modern Orthodox perspective, definitely show.As a complete novice to the vast study of Judaism I can't comment on the accuracy or the scope of Wouk's work.
I picked this book out on recommendation of my pastor because he referenced a story from it once in a conversation we had.
The book is a primer on Judaism as it existed in the 1960's when Israel was new and the holocaust was an event fresh in the minds of Jews.
Herman Wouk, a playwright and novelist, writes a general outline of the parts of the Jewish Faith he believes to be important, but he ends up giving a description of what is beautiful in Judaism.
At every page even if you have no interest in religion, Wouk helps you to understand what is beautiful about it and worth preserving.
This was originally written in the 1950s and it shows in Wouk's complete disinterest in women's lives. That being said, I enjoyed reading it; some of what it covered was familiar to me, but there were definitely some new pieces. I do not agree with Wouk about any number of things, but I liked it as an overview & feel better prepared to dive in to deeper and more modern reading.
The book is written as in introduction for non-practicing Jewish community. I'm not Jewish but I found it well organized and written. I had no trouble following along despite my lack of familiarity with the Jewish faith.
I found it very insightful. For me it was a very worthwhile read.
I was hoping for the Jewish equivalent of Mere Christianity. This was interesting but far more dated.
Mr. Wouk wrote the book because a friend came up to him and said his son knew next to nothing about Judaism and the friend knew Wouk to be a practicing Jew and could he recommend a good “starter” book for him to give to his son with the hope the son might gain some appreciation for their heritage.Now Wouk admits to not being a Rabbi (a teacher of the Torah) and could not think of (or find) such a book – even after asking around himself – so he decided to write one.
This book was a very interesting read. The author is very knowledgeable in the subject of Judaism, and yet is able to convey a large amount of information in a way that laymen such as myself can understand and connect to. A very fascinating subject!
He responds beautifully to each and does whatever someone who writes a book about his faith should do: he reminds us that no matter the differences between members of different faiths we will discover a good deal to admire in each others' way of lives.My only complaint is that the book focuses heavily on the "logistics" of Judaism, if you will; when studying a religion I first and foremost want to understand what the religion teaches about the purpose of humanity.
In short, I want to know what the point of it all is; why keep this way of life?
I would recommend this book for those points alone.
The reading was from my favorite chapter in this book about the Sabbath and Herman leaving the theatre and the director and producer freaking out because there was still a problem in the second act.
The problem with the second act was still there, but he was the only one there relaxed, rested, and energized to do something to fix it.
A woman had a comment about how women were portrayed in the bible.
Well, the minister stood up in the pulpit and said that the bible was not her favorite book to teach from.
This book is a bit of an autobiograpy as well as the intended purpose: that of teaching the reader about the Jewish religion, the traditions as they relate to scripture, and its history.
As fascinating as I find the Old Testament, and as much as I love learning about the Jewish religion and how it came about from the ancient Hebrew people, my personal opinion is the Jewish religion is full of supersition and ritual.
This book is non-fiction, but the author repeatedly slipped into a story-telling mode, which I found did not add value to the author's purpose.
This is an excellent overview/introduction to many things Jewish: history, customs, traditions, and the way things have involved.
I'd recommend this book to anyone wanting more background information on Judaism.
The only drawback is that it was written in the late 80s, and that dates some of his observations and remarks.
Two updates to the chapters on Israel are included, and this helps.
But there are still some changes worthy of noting, that are not included (for example,Reform Judaism is described only as it was in "Classical Reform," ).
Nonetheless, Wouk is an excellent writer, and this makes the book not only informative, but readable and enjoyable.
Okay - I didn't actually read the large print version - my eyes aren't that bad yet.
:-) You might remember Herman Wouk as the writer of Winds of War and such.
This is a great book for the lay person of non-Jewish background who is interested in understanding the Jewish faith.
Wouk wrote this orginally in 1959 after a secular friend asked him if he knew any good books about Hanukah as he wanted his son to learn about his heritage.
It is an enjoable read written with a light hand and no small amount of warmth and affection.
Wouk makes the inscruitable very understandable.
