https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/596778.The_Way_of_the_World
I hadn’t heard of Nicolas Bouvier before, but a preface by Patrick Leigh Fermor means something to me: it means that I will definitely buy the book.
Almost without fail, Bouvier summons the exquisite, most telling details of each place and person encountered.
But now I know how to inoculate my own children when they reach that strangely defenseless age.To locate The Way of the World’s place in the cosmic library by triangulation, I suppose you could take a first measurement from Fermor’s own Between the Woods and the Water.
Des pages et des pages de bonheur, de rêverie, de contemplation.Sa description des espaces, des couleurs, ...à faire rêver.Je n'oublierai pa ses pages sur les bleus d'Iran.
Thierry's heart was also in his boots; he shared my feelings although I hadn't said a word to him." But these were brief moments incapable of spoiling the memories of all that I've seen and done, the happiness I've felt, the people I've met and the friends I've made, the places I've visited and learned to call home.
"When I went home", Bouvier says, "there were many people who had never left who told me that with a bit of imagination and concentration they travelled just as well.
Ça donne soif de voyage, soif de paysages. Certaines images sont d'une efficacité redoutable puis parfois pendant un paragraphe ou deux tout est plat, terne et pas forcement très intéressant. C'est assez étrange ce contraste. Mais c'est beau, très beau. Puis ya une variété de rencontres assez exceptionnelle. Le regard est tendre sur un monde qui ne l'est pas toujours.
Koniec końców, opłaciło się.Podróż sama w sobie jest fascynująca, ale w czasach, gdy każdy głupek może wsiąść do byle jakiego samolotu, polecieć do Tajlandii lub Wietnamu, zeżreć tam coś i dostać sraczki, a potem przez pół roku wszem i wobec głosić, jaką miał przygodę życia, nie ona stanowi o wartości "Oswajania świata".Znowuż, podobnie jak u Fermora, najlepsze jest "narratora życie wewnętrzne" - jego refleksje, przeplatane odniesieniami do filozofii, poezji (Hafiz!), literatury.
Grunt, że jego opis pobytu w Iranie jest przepełniony taką czułością i sympatią, jego obserwacje tak celne i koncentrujące się na, z braku odpowiednich słów, nazwijmy to "esencją życia", że znowu, jak u Fermora, nie sposób nie zakochać się w tym, jak Bouvier postrzega świat.
Successful travel writing, as far as I’m concerned, is an exercise in the craft of writing, observation, a bit of adventure, and a willingness to open up, learn, absorb, dig in, and be at least somewhat changed (don't overdo it, though, as the whole "travel as life changing" idea is often petty and forced).
Throughout, Bouvier casts a loving, if occasionally incredulous eye on the sundry characters and places encountered along the way, reminding us that travel isn’t about our being wholly changed or having some great self-realization, but, rather, it is about accepting that change is the way of life, the way of the world.
He seemed to be a bit too fond of his own voice and was often trying too hard to sound reflective and insightful.
Overall this tone of voice made it feel a bit contrived.
I felt that there was some kind of intellectual barrier between the author and all the people/experiences he encountered, so that no vivid impressions were ever conveyed.
Somehow after more than 300 pages I don't feel that I got a better idea of the places or people he described.I have read many travel journals and this was the least impressive.
Perhaps it's better when read in French.
Nu is zeven jaar een lange tijd om naar een boek uit te kijken, en er was een grote kans dat het me enorm zou tegenvallen, juist door die lange periode van anticipatie...
maar het was een schitterend boek.In  De wegen van de wereld laat Bouvier zijn zinnen sprankelen en de beelden die hij met zijn woorden schetst tot leven komen.
Ik heb qua reisboeken verder alleen The Old Patagonian Express gelezen, wat vermakelijk was, maar waarbij Theroux zijn eigen mening heel erg op de voorgrond zette, en zichzelf neerzette als de Ultieme Reiziger die met een mengeling van irritatie en arrogantie de (in zijn mening) Niet Zo Ultieme Reizigers om zich heen becommentarieerde.
With admirable audacity Nicolas and Thierry drive their rusted jalopy from one continent to the next.
Somewhere I read that Hilter wanted to build an autobahn from Berlin to India along the the same basic path in order to outdo all the Alexander the Greats, Xerxes, Khans, and other figures to have swept across Anatolia, Persia and the Stans.
These figures loom heavily, if not silently, in the narrative.
Nicolas and Thierry observe the lives that seem inescapably subject to one megalomaniac or another throughout this vast geography.
Bouvier can't quite avoid those tedious ticks of travel writing: long lists of unrelated and insignifcant observations (a broken doll's head, an out-of tune accordion, the nub of an old man's amputated arm, the state logo on a carton of socialist cigarettes...) intended, I suppose, to give a sort of pointilliste portrait of the landscape; personal reflections on events or complex social issues largely beyond the passing voyager's ken; spurious superlatives ("Turkish food is the most substantial in the world", "Iranis are the most poetic people").
If you're interested in the lives of ordinary people in the multi-ethnic world of Yugoslavia, Iran, and Afghanistan in the mid-1950's...

A wonderful and illuminating book about the travels of two young Swiss men travelling from Geneva to the Khyber Pass from June 1953 to December 1954, when the world appears to have been a more accessible and safer place.Bouvier's descriptions of the locations are absorbing and authentic.
It is not romantic, as it appears to truthfully point out all the awful aspects of travel, but it makes one nostalgic for a place and time, which one could now never have visited, but which sound so vivid and real, although we are often very glad we are not there, as it is too hot or too cold.There are passages where Bouvier reminds you of the primal or spiritual dimension of travel, that reaches beyond curiosity to some more basic nomadic need, but they are self depreciatory and not fanciful.Most magically, the travellers reach Tabriz in Azerbaijan and "..you yawn, stretch out, fall asleep.
A wonderful book - an account by 2 French-Swiss young men driving from Geneva to Afghanistan via Serbia, Greece, Turkey, and Iran in 1953.
Published in French as "L'Usage du Monde."I was in Turkey myself as a Peace Corps English teacher, 1964-66, and although they spent only a few weeks driving across Anatolia, I found Bouvier's observations spot-on.
Turkey has changed so much in the past 40 years that much is almost unrecognizable now, so I especially appreciated his descriptions.
He makes acute observations too about Iran.
It somehow rang so true and feels relevant to current events in Iran.
This 1.5 year trip from Yugoslavia to Afghanistan takes place only 8 years after WWII a time of poverty when certainly few people were traveling to this area. The author is in his mid-20s, has daredevil youth on his side but has sophisticated skills in perception, communication, and language. Beautifully written, a well balanced mix of historical and cultural material with crazy personal adventures of the author and his artist friend - filled with characters, generous or dangerous, but always fascinating. The best of travel writing in my book!
What a time this was ! A world of tolerance, where people could travel without fearing being arrested for spying in Iran, without fearing being held hostage in Afghanistan... Un magnifique voyage, dans lequel on peut encore mieux se plonger si on a eu la chance de voyager un peu soi-même, afin de pouvoir sentir les odeurs et les sensations vécues par ce voyageur et son ami peintre, qui ont vécu ce qui serait aujourd'hui impossible. Magnifique !
Absorbing, and filled me with wanderlust, though I was already traveling while I read it. I have to assume the translation is excellent, since there were beautiful turns of phrase and clever observations throughout. A glorious description of a time that once was that informs the time that is. The perfect companion for a long train ride.
Great travel book. This is what travel writing is all about. Adventure, cultural commentary, getting outside one's comfort zone. The portraits of Iran and Afghanistan in the early 1950s is fascinating, considering the fanaticism that took hold 30 years later. The translation is lively and full of the author's enthusiasm for the topic. Highly recommended.
Il viaggio visto con occhi di fotografo e raccontato da un bravo e sensibile scrittore. Cosa potrei desiderare di più? Lascia però molta amarezza il confronto fra i paesaggi e le genti di allora (anni '50) e quello che sono ora, dopo il passaggio di guerre, bombardamenti "umanitari", rivoluzioni e fondamentalismi e di devastanti terremoti.
Un chef d’œuvre d'observation du monde et de délicatesse, une écriture super-soignée, pas prétentieuse ni lourde pour autant. Un vrai plaisir.Un road trip d'une autre époque à travers l'Asie et le moyen-Orient.Les dessins ne font qu'ajouter un peu d'exotisme à un livre déjà bien dépaysant.
Quite possibly the greatest travelogue ever written, the prose in this extraordinarily lyrical piece of work is, even in translation, sublime. A book I read and reread, recommend regularly, and am never disappointed by. One of my desert island books without question.
Les premières pages furent contrariantes, agacée que j'étais par les propos misogynes de l'auteur et son style très particulier dans lequel j'ai peiné à rentrer.
Et puis je m'y suis fait (au style, pas aux quelques passages misogynes), j'ai commencé à aimer, beaucoup.
J'ai savouré.
J'ai fait trainer ma lecture sur six mois, pour profiter du voyage, pour déguster chaque moment.
Je ne voulais pas finir, je ne voulais pas que ça se termine.
Et puis j'ai refermé ce livre en me promettant de le relire (fait rarissime), de savourer à nouveau, en me disant qu'il méritait amplement son statut de classique du genre.
J’ai vraiment adoré suivre le périple de Nicolas Bouvier et son acolyte. Ce livre est à la hauteur de sa réputation ! Je le recommande à ceux qui hésiteraient à le lire. :)
Though I can say that the traditions of Muslim hospitality that make the Middle East such a wonderful place to travel survive largely intact despite all the violence of the past fifty years, the book remains in many ways a moving attestation to a time and place and way of life that has now mostly vanished.
And I think you'd have to have a heart of stone to not be at least a little moved by the joie-de-vivre that illuminates Nicolas and Thierry's pursuit of these aims.
La route tient lieu d'intrigue. on s'enfonce lentement vers l'orient pour y découvrir un monde inconnu et disparu.
"The Way of the World" calls up a lost age when driving from Serbia through Turkey and Iran to Afghanistan was an Adventure rather than suicidal madness an age when the Central Asian parts of the dar al-Islam were still places where Westerners and "the West" rarely penetrated, where Bouvier and his friend could be welcomed as exotic guests and diversions from the ordinary rather than seen as threats.
"Way of the World" is a young man's book--- Bouvier was in his very early twenties ---and written in a lost world where it was still possible for the exotic to appear to both Westerners and Easterners as something exciting rather than menacing, when borders were still indifferently guarded, and where travel still had the air of setting off into the Far Foreign.
It's a travel book in its most basic form--really little more than successive journal entries of the author as he and a friend, both from Switzerland, travel overland in a beat up fiat from Yugoslavia to India in 1953, in the course of a year travelling throughout places like Tabriz, Isfahan, Kabul and Quetta, while denying themselves every luxury, so the speak, except that of being slow.
Anyway, it was a really rich read; and it made me want to travel, especially to some of these place (its too bad our last decade's foreign policy has made that unlikely, or at least, a whole lot more difficult for the next decade or so).
But they cannot always fix the thing and they do not always have the parts, which leads to lots of negotiations with the locals.This takes place in the 1950s (read: a long time ago in a galaxy far, far away), so the behavior of the locals might not be replicated today (read: don't try this at home).
He can be quite poetic and fashion quite the sentence, and it holds together nicely through Robyn Marsack's translation from the French.If you're looking for a lot of coming-of-age material, like you often see in travel writing, Bouvier's not your guy.
To its credit, the book does include bits of history.
Solid travel writing.
If Patrick Leigh Fermor writes the intro to your book, I'm assuming a halo effect (and was not disappointed)Not quite in the same league as Fermor (which frankly probably leaves out most everyone) but some solid observations and wonderful turns of phrase.
While the wine grew warm in our glasses and Terence, still and watchful as a night, gazed up at the stars, a couplet by Hafiz came back to me: "...If the mystic still doesn't know the secret of the World,I wonder how the innkeeper came to learn it so well."
372g : assez conséquent pour résister aux fins d'après midi brumeuses, le plus léger et compact pour être porté en dénivelés dans le sac, un thème qui évade des montagnes pourtant magnifiques mais qui reste pourtant dans le contemplatif, le réflexif, l'évasion : difficile choix de l'objet "inutile" avant de partir en ski rando.
Mais rien de cette nature n'est définitivement acquis.
Puis se retire, et vous replace devant ce vide qu'on porte en soi, devant cette espèce d'insuffisance centre de l'âme qu'il faut bien apprendre à côtoyer, à combattre, et qui, paradoxalement, est peut-être notre moteur le plus sûr"
It is without a doubt one of the finest travel narratives I have ever read.
Bouvier and Vernet's immersion in the cultures and ways of life of the places they visit is total, and the narrative is overflowing with illuminating observations.
It's more than just a pleasant read, though; it's relevant, in its reflections on the tumultuous history of Afghanistan, whose defiance towards conquest-seeking farangis is a thread that remains unbroken, even today.
The ultimate goal of travel is the gaining of perspective, both in the life of the traveller and the world at large.
