https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36058.The_Big_Nowhere
The “unpatriotic” Zoot-Suits being admired by a police officer and a passing young woman.In 1943 war has broken out and thousands of White American sailors and marines are stationed in Los Angeles.
He is a rising star in the department and when Lieutenant Mal Considine is asked to head up a task force investigating Communism in Hollywood Upshaw is asked to join the team.
Jazz musicians, burglary, wolverines, heroin, queer escort services., a promiscuous communist Emma Goldman want-a-be, crooked cops, a woman sleeping with a revolving door of men for the lord, all perfectly natural circumstances to show up in a James Ellroy novel.
Attached to his team are Dudley Smith, a veteran cop with a mean streak a mile wide, and Buzz Meeks, the dirtiest cop in town and the man whom his first wife had an affair with while he was fighting Germans in WWII...Here we are, the second book in James Ellroy's multi-volume tale of wholesome family togetherness, the LA Quartet.
In some ways, this book is the rise and fall of Danny Upshaw, the rise and fall of Mal Considine, and the redemption of Buzz Meeks, three very driven men.
Buzz Meeks tries to do the right thing despite a lifetime of doing the wrong ones.In some ways, this book reads like The Black Dahlia 2.0.
Eventually the two investigations intersect, and all three men have to deal with the consequences of who they are and what they’ve done.This isn’t my favorite James Ellroy book, but it is a pivotal one in my own reading history because it’s the first one of his I read after finding a paperback copy at a library sale back before the world moved on so I credit it for turning me onto his work.
While I love the way that Ellroy mixes fact and fiction so that you feel like you’re reading the secret history that never made the newspapers it seems like he’s also trying to mimic the messiness of real events.
To say this book is charged with bleak visceral energy is an understatement; it was hard to read without taking breaks just to clear the empty pit of despair that started in my belly and threatened to envelop me.The only other book by Ellroy I’ve read was White Jazz which was number 4 in this tetralogy.
That book, which was deliberately written in (or edited down to) a clipped style, took care of a loose end (view spoiler)[ Dudley Smith got what was coming to him  (hide spoiler)] from this book.Recommended for those readers who have no faith in humanity and just want to take their car for a spin in the gutter.
Nasty copsNasty communists aka red scumNasty gay men aka queers, faggots, etcNasty black people aka spooks, smokes, etcNasty womenNasty mobstersNasty Jews who are also often nasty commies and faggotsNasty MexicansNasty wivesNasty smackheadsNasty sexNasty languageNasty livesOh and also nasty dogsIf you can’t take the special oxyacetylene James Ellroy heat you better get out of the James Ellroy kitchen of hell so that’s what I’m doing, skedaddling back to wimpsville to bathe my throbbing brow and read a Penelope Fitzgerald novel where nothing happens except maybe some one chips a tea cup.
A nowhere horn from Squaresville,Lefty cliche-drillers,Commie women out for gelt,Cops turned mob-paid killers.A front-page perp, A homo twerp,A hopheadwho’s dead.Vengeful snitches, Treasonous bitches,Reds under queen-size beds.
But Ellroy spends just as much time developing the entire cast of complex colorful characters, especially the three leads.
The novel follows three law enforcement officers (an LA County Deputy Sheriff, a DA investigator, and a former crooked LAPD officer turned Howard Hughes pimp and bagman) as they get thrown into a grand jury probe against Communist influence in Hollywood as well as an investigation of a series of grisly serial murders.
And Ellroy expertly brings their separate stories together in a web of gripping mystery and tragedy.I love my new home of Los Angeles and I have a fascination with old Tinseltown history and conspiracy, so one would wonder why I took so long to start reading James Ellroy novels.
The second book, The Big Nowhere, happens in the early fifties focused on a series of murders of gay men in L.
People led to Lesnick's couch by their promiscuity and dipshit politics.”I liked the more personal Black Dahlia better, but this is top notch, featuring the following memorable things: The HUAC McCarthy Red Scare “trials,” a series of gay murders, wolverines, Howard Hughes as pedophile, mobster Mickey Cohen, corrupt cops, strippers, prostitutes (are there any female accountants or biologists in Elroy?).
Homophobia and Commie-fear-mongering are the central features here, and they are intertwined in the central brutal series of crimes.
Here is a world where there just exists a category of being good or bad,you being on this side or that,with human nature,naked and lurking beneath,feeding on each other and bleeding you out.“Stay true to yourself,goddamnit,but with dire consequences”seems more of an apt phrase than that corny “survival of the fittest”in Ellroy’s world.
Mal is using it to his advantage in an attempt to advance his fledgling career while Buzz Meeks is shaking down unions accused of spreading red propaganda.It isn’t long until all three men are frying together in the same pan.With The Big Nowhere, Ellroy was cooking with all the same ingredients used in The Black Dahlia: the seedy crime culture of 1950s L.A., snappy hard boiled dialogue, and compelling characters.
I’m not saying that if a crime fiction author chooses the third person style he/she fails immediately; I just find it difficult to become fully immersed in the presented case.Why does it matter so much with this novel?
Ellroy has come up with a boldly ambitious and enthrallingly dark brooding crime novel that ticked all the boxes for me.
The novel's first half interweaves two stories of lonely, driven lawmen investigating the crimes of social outcasts.
It had everything I was looking for, a great set of characters, a complex plot that had many side stories, the mid-20th century L.A setting was used so authentically, with a wholly gripping and murky atmosphere.
Ellroy is such a great crime writer for the authenticity of this era, and there aren't many that can top him.
“It all came down to money - the great equalizer and common denominator.” ― James Ellroy, The Big NowhereProbably 4.5 stars.
Still, it is a novel that if written by any other living crime writer it might be considered their masterpiece and this is only 2nd shelf Ellroy.
This is the 2nd book in Ellroy's LA Quartet Series (Starts with The Black Dahlia and includes this, L.A. Confidential, and White Jazz).
The plot is near perfect and the characters are BETTER than the plot, in my book, James Ellroy does for crime thrillers what John le Carré does for spy thrillers.
Los Angeles, 1950 Red crosscurrents: the Commie Scare and a string of brutal mutilation killings.
Gangland intrigue and Hollywood sleaze.
Three cops caught in a hellish web of ambition, perversion, and deceit.
Danny Upshaw is a Sheriff's deputy stuck with a bunch of snuffs nobody cares about; they're his chance to make his name as a cop...
Buzz Meeks-bagman, ex-Narco goon, and pimp for Howard Hughes-is fighting communism for the money.
This was a grand novel of twists and turns, double-crosses and blackmail, and political intrigue all tied together by the master of noir, James Ellroy.
Wow. This was a powerful book.
Dirty politics, policemen, corruption, sleaze, kickbacks and gangsters.
There is a reaching for redemption too, but whether this is achieved is anyone's guess.This book had all the feels.
It made me feel sad, enraged, indignant and shocked.
This is the noir-ist noir I've read so far.And it's easy to read this and think 'well that was corruption THEN, nowadays things are SO different....but maybe they aren't, not really, maybe the players have just changed....paranoia setting in.
But it packs an awfully powerful punch and evokes an era in all its not so glorious colours.Recommended.
While this is an okay detective yarn, I found the plethora of characters overwhelming and the language dated and very macho, and in today's terms, rather lacking political correctness. There is just too much going on in the book and the somewhat dated language and expressions makes you less keen on reading further.
The best Ellroy book, hands down. Better than "Black Dahlia". Picture a fun house-mirrored Hollywood where a psycho killer tears his victims apart wearing dentures made of wolverine fangs, a closet queen vice cop investigating Communist sympathizer movie stars, and a cop who wants to smuggle his kid through Iron Curtain-era Europe during the Redder than Red Communist 1950's. The roller coaster ride of the Big Nowhere lasts for 400+ pages and has no brakes, so hold on tight!
C’è tanto di tutto nei romanzi di Ellroy, ed in questo in particolare: tanta tensione razziale, linfa nel sangue americano soprattutto di una L.A. vicinissima al confine messicano; c’è tanta ossessione sessuale, omo ed etero, da arrivare a pervertiti di ogni genere, ad incesti e psicosi oltre ogni fantasia di un lettore “normale”; c’è tanta criminalità, dal tossicodipendente dedito ai furti al pervertito omicida all’uomo di fiducia del gangster ai killer prezzolati fino al macrocriminale usuraio spacciatore ebreo; ci sono omicidi di strada la cui descrizione a sangue caldo, con la scrittura telegrafica di Ellroy, fa drizzare i capelli per l’orrore; c’è corruzione, tanta e ovunque, ad ogni livello, senza che si possa più distinguere tra corrotti e corruttori, tra vittime e carnefici.
E’ lui, “il randagio dannato della letteratura americana”.
E non ce n’è per nessuno.
DNF - only got halfwayA perfect title "The Big Nothing, Nowhere, Nada"Incredibly long-winded and dull, often repetitive, far too many name-drop-then-forget characters, precious few action scenes, even fewer scenes that advance the plot more than an inch.Only Danny and Claire are sympathetic, and then only intermittently. See notes below....
This dark, mean, nasty-hearted book had me forgetting to sleep, nearly getting in trouble for forgetting to come back from lunch hour, etc.
Definitely this quartet is the best hard-boiled stuff I know since the Chandler/Hammett/Cain era.
If L.A. Confidential the book is even better than this I'm going to explode.Drawback: Ellroy definitely conjures up more than he can handle, and i'm starting to notice that his endings pretty much require some character in the know to explain how it all connects.
Thing is, the book's so good you don't even care too much.NOT FOR THE SQUEAMISH.
We also have Buzz Meeks, a former cop, now bagman and pimp for Howard Hughes (Yes, THE Howard Hughes) who’s going to be getting involved in both Considine and Upshaw’s cases, and really Meeks is noticing the odds are decidedly not in his favor.The second book in Ellroy’s LA Quintet is more ambitious than The Black Dahlia, it’s bigger in scope giving us more “secret history” of LA, while also losing the first-person narration of the previous book and alternating between the three above characters.
i'm more interested in psychopaths than communists, so the more historical-sociological parts of this 500-page book kinda bored me.
i can see how people might see this as ellroy moving into more "important" areas of interest, but as far as i can tell it's all just a bunch of window-dressing for the wolverine-obsessed psychopath angle anyway; it's not like the book sheds any light on politics or economics or anything like that (or even tries to).
the world is a shitty place and people do their best, which is often really bad, as we're all insane.
Early Ellroy, prior to his discovery of removing every unnecessary word as his successful writing style, moves slow and feels bloated. An interesting little tale that suffers in comparison to what would come next but is still dark and brutal and typical of his worldview. I really just wanted it to be over asap however.
The dark and violent plot was there but maybe violent sex crimes are just too far for me.I’m not sure if it was the fact that sex murders are too disturbing or that I’ve read better crime novels now, but I felt like James Ellroy’s racist and offensive writing was taken a bit too far in this one.
This is never a good sign for a book like this; I think James Ellroy was my first step into the world of noir and hard-boiled fiction but now I’ve read so many other novels I feel like it’s time to leave him behind.
This is not only a great crime novel, it's a really good novel period. There are basically two story lines. One follows a series of murders in L.A., while the other involves the Communist scare in Hollywood.As this book is all plot, it's hard to say much about it without giving anything away. Suffice it to say that's it's pretty heavy going and definitely not for the squeamish, as the murders involved are among the most graphically horrific I've ever encountered.That being said, it's a very engrossing read indeed.
The scope has widened in this second entry to the L.A. Quartet on multiple levels; we have three POV characters and an omniscient perspective as opposed to the single first person POV of the first book, the single main story thread being replaced by two in this volume and it's just longer, dealing with more people, places and locations.
If Black Dahlia was an uncomfortably close flyover of Ellroy's postwar L.A. cesspit, The Big Nowhere is a full on cannonball into the filth, grime and dessicated corpses, and one that I happily drowned in for 400 superseedy pages, rushing out and grabbing L.A. Confidential before I had even finished it.
5/10I love this time period and I love crime novels but this was a struggle.
It had some good parts and I enjoyed moments throughout it but not enough to relish reading it on an evening, hence the slow reading time.
This is my second Ellroy novel and he has a style, I’m just not sure if that style is for me.
Luckily for me the next book of his I’ve got lined up is L.A. Confidential and I’ve seen the movie a few times and really enjoyed that.
If the book doesn’t work for me then I’ll have to call it quits.
Σας εχω μιλήσει για αυτο το βιβλιο ; οχι απ'οτι βλέπω . Οπως και ολοι που το εχετε διαβασει. Μαλλον οπως και εγω, στέκεστε αμήχανοι για το τι θα έπρεπε να γράψετε.Ας αρχίσουμε απο τα απλα . Ο Ελρου ειναι ενας εξαίρετος ανατόμος . Τέμνει οριζόντια, κάθετα και πλαγίως, βυθίζοντας το Νυστέρι βαθειά στο σώμα μιας Αμερικής χωρις καρδιά και χωρις καθαρότητα πνεύματος. Οι ήρωες του ειναι άγριοι, οι υποθέσεις που διαλευκενουν, αγριότερες αυτών. Καπως ετσι έν καιρω μεγάλου πολέμου (Β'ΠΠ) ολοι βρίσκονται εγκλωβισμένοι στο μεγάλο πουθενά, που τους οδηγεί σε ενα μεγαλύτερο πουθενά -αν οχι στον θάνατο -.
Meanwhile a trio of cops (two dirty, one so clean he knocked out his wife's teeth in a principled rage) are off on a mission to destroy communist influence in Hollywood.
I'm still numb from finishing this -- Ellroy ain't afraid of killing off beloved characters, tell you what -- but a couple themes hit me.
He wins -- and I'm sure Ellroy is telling us something slightly ridiculous and "Hollywood" there.It's a riveting, gothic-horror mystery populated with Jewish gangsters, Mexican Commies, a bakers dozen of closet cases, bizarre love triangles, a corpsepile of cops, and a cynical prophecy of today's Hollywood.
Ellroy crossbreeds the detective novel, historical, and gothic horror; so we get an analysis of the impulses and pathology behind historical events and figures, a Boschian canvas of human depravity, a crackerjack plot, and three unlovable but compelling protagonists living on the edge. The plot involves Red Scare intrigue (and its connection to Hollywood greed) and very disturbing serial killer. Also features Howard Hughes, Mickey Cohen, bestiality, teamsters, wolverines, necrophilia, heroin, blackmail, and lots of corruption. Filled with outrageous black humor and delivered in Ellroy’s newsman on meth prose.
So he could lead the investigation, he agrees to infiltrate a labor union, search out communists and uncover their “un-American activities.” But all he cares about is to find out why a killer was mutilating other gay men.
Zoot SuitsLieutenant Mal Considine, on the other hand, agrees to work with power-hungry prosecutors, corrupted cops and gangster union bosses and hunt communists only to get promoted and win custody of his adopted son.
LA City HallCorrupted cops, manipulative prosecutors, greedy union bosses, bloodthirsty cutthroats, delusional psychopaths, they populate James Ellroy’s novel of greed, power and lust.
