https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6801582-spells
But it seems like relationships between humans and faeries always end badly.'Laurel's head jerked back.
There is very little interaction with the trolls-- the series bad guys-- in the book, so most of Pike's time is spent explaining her faery world and having Laurel fluctuate between David and Tamani.
And the scenes where Laurel is in Avalon are also ridiculous: why not show us how the potions work with some examples of them saving lives, rather than telling us how they work?
I highly doubt that all of her readers even know what that is, or why its so significant to faery mythology in general.
I picked up this book simply because I wanted to know what happened to these Mary Sues.
I had no interest in the plot.
I had no interest in the story itself.
And because I would enjoy a good laugh.
This was so bad that it didn't even let me laugh at its stupidity.
First of all, Pike's writing is exactly like Meyer's.
They both describe the most irrelevant things.
It's so stupid.
It's so stupid.
She's just like Bella.
She's a moron who doesn't know what the hell she wants.
Idiots...Can I just give up on books now?
The world of faerie according to Aprilynne is fascinating, and she really gets me thinking about how Laurel's character might change the faerie world some day.Now, I really like David.
Laurel is not going to age for sometime and it will start to be noticeable as David does.
I like their relationship but I am a bigger fan of Tamani and Laurel.
Tamani has made sacrifices all his life for his true love, even when she can't remember how it used to be.
I think Laurel is just afraid of giving into her Faerie life, truthfully."Tell me," he said, his voice sharp and demanding.
It is funny, the last time I read this book I rated it 4 stars and never finished the series. Well, I am now determined to finish it, with only 2 books left to read.
That’s because I’m a faerie, and every autumn a beautiful flower grows out of my back.
That makes me special, because I’m not human.
But they probably don’t cry saltwater, because saltwater is icky on my plant pores and saps my strength.Anyway, I’ve just spent my summer at the faerie Academy, where of course I couldn’t do anything right for no specified reason.
I’m probably too human, but that’s okay, because I’m really a faerie, remember.
Did I mention faeries are totally superior to humans?
Because they are.Anyway I went to the Academy to learn how to protect my adopted family from the trolls that are bound to attack me because I’m just that special.
Το δεύτερο λοιπόν βιβλίο αυτής της τετραλογίας μου άρεσε πάρα πολύ!Ήμουν στην αρχή κάπως επιφυλακτική γιατί ξεκίνησε βαρετά αλλά συνεχίζοντας βυθίστηκα στις σελίδες του.Μου αρέσε γενικά αυτό το βιβλίο κυρίως επειδή το βρήκα πρωτότυπο μιας και δεν έχω διαβάσει άλλες ιστορίες με νεράιδες και επίσης βρήκα υπέροχο το πως η συγγραφέας συνέδεσε τον νεραιδόκοσμο της με την ιστορία του Κάμελοτ.Ανυπομονώ για τα δύο επόμενα και ελπίζω να τα έχουμε σύντομα στα ελληνικά!
This is causing a few problems in Avalon as Laurel really needs to learn what it means to be a real faerie and Tamani begins to show his true feelings.
After spending the whole summer relearning her magic in Avalon, Laurel knows she cannot hide her feelings for Tamani but actually choosing between him and David could mean losing one of them for good.
In both Wings and Spells, I felt that the chemistry between Laurel and David was lacking but this wasn't the case with her and Tamani.
I liked this book because we saw more of Tamani and Avalon. What I didn't like was how Laural handled Tam. lol. I agree with Shar that she has been unfair to Tam. I am so Team Tam. I like david ok, but I love Tam. I really hope that this works out. Now I have to wait to see what Tam is planning and hope he doesn't get killed...ugh. I'm looking forward for the next one.
3,5/5 αστεράκια
The time has come for Laurel to depart from her "normal" life to the academy in Avalon, where she will be taught what it means to be a Fall faerie.
She also learns that in faerie hierarchy, Spring fae like her friend/more than friend Tamani are treated as no more than servants - and she does not like standing by quietly while it happens.While Laurel is in Avalon, she and Tamani grow closer than ever and when it's time to go back home to David, she becomes confused.
and being able to follow Laurel and Tamani around Avalon was my favorite part.
Deel 2 in de Wings serie. Een boek met goede kanten, maar zeker wat minpunten. Hier kan je mijn recensie lezen: http://nerdygeekyfanboy.com/recensie/...
BECAUSE OF TAMANI.The Good- I loved Avalon!
This is one of those love triangles that make me want to scream.
I really, REALLY want Laurel to be with Tamani but...ugh, it's too complicated.
Because I am very close to just jumping in the story and handcuffing Tamani and Laurel together.The Bad- N/AThe In-Betweens- Like the first book, I found a majority of it a bit slow paced.
But I guess David is just an unpredictable character, which I like.- And now, Tamani.
My lovely Tamani.
You learn a lot more about the faeries, their rules and their world.Off to Illusions I go!
The first in the series was much more interesting, maybe because stuff actually happened, but this one just fell flat.1) Like I said, pretty much nothing happened.
He'll act like this really nice and sweet (annoyingly so) guy and then the next he'll be like "Oh, I'm so cool because I have a gun!"4) Well, Laurel gets her OWN little number for me to rant about.
Laurel is the most selfish, sniveling little brat of a character EVER.
I don't understand why Ms. Pike couldn't wait until the next book to introduce that little piece of the story.
During their final visit together, Tamani takes Laurel to a tree made of passed fae.
Her summer ends quickly with Jamison walking her out,giving her a Fall Fae care package, and telling her that she needs to come back.
Tamani walks her to her house and David is there waiting for her.Back in the land of humans, the story just continues with a few exceptions.
During the battle, Laurel takes out four trolls when Barnes aims guns at Chelsea and David.
Laurel takes everyone home and then tells David that she has chosen a life with him over Tamani and that she is going to tell him so.
There, I said it.Even though I thought Wings was a little strange (it just sounds weird that the Faeries are plants and they keep talking about Laurel's blossom), I did actually enjoy it.
Shoot me an email and I'll give you a summary :) I'll still be reading book 3 because I did like Wings and I want to know how it ends, but I think this series would've been better without this book, or at least just adding some of its main points to the other books.Sorry Aprilynne!
Okay, so Laurel is so hard done by because she is soooooo "special" and she's the best fairy and all of that crap.
OKAY YOU HAVE TWO GUYS GOING AFETR YOU, YOU ARE THE BEST FAIRY, YOU HAVE A GREAT FAMILY AND LIFE, AND ALL YOU CAN THINK ABOUT IS HOW YOU CAN'T CHOOSE BETWEEN TWO GUYS, OR YOU CAN'T MAKE A FREAKEAN POTION?
Laurel should seriously learn some common sense, and maybe learn something to halp that so called brain of hers.
But just this last thing about something that made me never want to read the next book.
My lungs are cramping, my heart is bleeding, and I think I shall faint from despair!
Why oh why, Laurel!?
GO AWAY TAM!?
GO AWAY TAM!?
The horror!!!!!
(Throwing pillows on the floor, stomping up and down, throwing fists into the air) *Tear* This is a heartbreaking, agonizing, horrible travesty!
AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH ahghieahgnivjbhjeirhjifhhguehaioehio ARGH!!!!!
I don't think I'm going to get to sleep tonight.
*Sigh* Aprilynne, ...
YOU MUST FIX THIS IN ILLUSIONS!
;) Okay, now that you have witnessed my total loss of mental sanity, ...
you can see how incredible this series is.
I am totally emotionally invested.
I NEVER thought a book would infuriate me more than Twilight (Eclipse specifically) in regards to the whole love triangle thing. No.... Spells did. Luckily the swift kick in the pants was delivered and sweet as anything. LOLOh, such, beautiful, beautiful elegant writing. Delightful, fantasy descriptions. I am now a little in pain for the 3rd installment.
And it was pretty much what I expected.Laurel was so annoying in this whole indecisive I can’t choose where I want to be sort of melodrama that pervades the entire book.
She knowingly cheats on David, and he knows she goes to the fairy world to see Tamani.
Laurel was particularly cruel because she’s leading Tamani on and obviously enjoys doing it and then rips his heart out later.And David is just some blob of a guy who’s supposed to be super perfect and understanding and everything which makes him so boring.
It sort of made up for the tedious first half but not so much.
In Spells, we are once again introduced to Laurel, her family, her friend Chelsea, her boyfriend David, her other "friend" Tamani; who is a fairy!
I don't want to give away the whole plot but I loved this book.This book revolves more about Laurel going to Avalon and spending time getting to learn about her heritige (being a fairy).
You know you shouldn't like him because Laurel is already with David.But you find yourself thinking, come on Tamani, get the girl!
Its been a while since I've loved a guy in a book and I'm still awwing over Tamani.
I have hope that making David annoying in this book is all part of a big plan to eventually bring Laurel and Tamani together.
Let's hope Laurel was acting like this so we can see the process of her maturing and growing as a character in later books.
Poor Tamani seemed a little defeated for a lot of the book, as he wasn't quite as confident and flirtatious as he is in "Wings." Pining for Laurel is just sucking the soul out of his character.
Let's hope he comes back as his charismatic, charming self in Book 3 because I'm weary of selfish Laurel using him and bringing him down!
Which sets me on high hopes for the third.The book starts with Lauren going to Avalon for the summer to study as any other fairy does.There she learns stuff about the plants and their abilities and how to create magic potions.
She learns more about the fairy world and how everything is working there.
In the end of the book Lauren chooses between Tamani and David.In the first book I liked that Lauren and David were together, but that changed in the second one.
The end makes me believe that Tamani will be present in many parts of the third book with or without Laurens knowledge.
These books are fairly quick reads, yet this one took me ages.
I often couldn't be bothered to pick it up, because I feel the story lacked a lot of polishing.
There are tidbits of a background, that are not built on at all and destroys the source material it so hard tries to work with.Also Lauren.
It takes you two books before you think it's unfair to play two guys?
Let's hope you get yourself back on track in the next book, and hopefully that will have some more development and background story.
Like, every ten pages you see the word 'awesome.' Laurel seems to use it a lot and so do her friends.
And after a while it gets a bit irritating.The characters that were in the last book are back: Laurel, David, Tamani, Chelsea and even Jerimiah Barnes.
And David, on the other hand, is also sweet, nice, and like Tamani, would put his life on the line for her.
I feel like Tamani and Laurel have more chemistry, but then if David comes along in the book, I feel like they really should be together.
This is shaping up to be an excellent series and this was almost as good as the first.
My only real issue with this book was that it was a little too...ahh, how do i say this....Tamani light for my taste.
I like this series Tamani heavey haha.
There's a part of her that David will never be able to fully understand no matter what he tries because he's not a faerie.The ending of this book was very mysterious, although it was good to see things with Barnes concluded.
Great sequel, looking forward to the next. TEAM TAMANI!
I liked David just fine after reading "Wings," but after "Spells," I don't know how anyone could be Team David.
I have hope that making David annoying in this book is all part of a big plan to eventually bring Laurel and Tamani together.
Let's hope Laurel was acting like this so we can see the process of her maturing and growing as a character in later books.
Poor Tamani seemed a little defeated for a lot of the book, as he wasn't quite as confident and flirtatious as he is in "Wings." Pining for Laurel is just sucking the soul out of his character.
I was really disappointed with this book.
I think the faerie ideas are so interesting, but Laurel's dysfunctional relationship with David really gets in the way.
First, basically I think one of the best things about teen romance is that it can be innocent and fun.
There is no innocent relationship like that in this book.
Second, David and Laurel basically seem to be using each other.
The fun thing about romance is when two people fall in love with each others minds, not use each other for their bodies.
Spells is book #2 in the Wings Series by Aprilynne Pike.
Illusions comes out in May and the final book in 2012.
It wrapped up enough to leave me satisfied yet opened things up for something new.I think I enjoyed Spells even more than then book 1, Wings.
I love the character Tamani, seriously Laurel wake up and see what is before you!This is a sweet, clean series that I recommend to those who enjoy faerie stories.
I really enjoyed learning more about the faerie mythology, much of which was very unique.
LA verdad a sido bien relajada la lectura sin embargo a veces pienso que laurel es una estúpida, es un hada como puede preferir el mundo humano, no digo que deje a sus padres, pero el novio humano es un total incompetente mientras que tam es mucho mas diestro para protegerla y para cortejarla.
el novio humano la ayuda en aquello que tam ni ella pueden, sin embargo esas pequeñas cosas son mas que lo demás, no a mi parecer, apoyo que se quede en el mundo humano, pero que mande a la porra a david y se quede con tam, también apoyo que vaya mas a avalon y estudia para lo que nació de que demonios le sirve una carrera universitaria si ni siquiera la va hacer ayudar a su pueblo.
