https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/146746.The_Jewel_in_the_Crown
Then their face relaxes and they talk about the drop to your knees unexpected beauty of the architecture, how wonderful the people are, and those amazing intangible things about living in India that makes them pine to go back.
Paul Scott starts the novel with the beginning of the aftermath and then spends the rest of the novel, through the various viewpoints of the principle characters, investigating and building a file of what everybody saw, experienced, overheard, and speculated about with regard to what actually happened to Daphne Manners.
Paul Scott infused this novel with lush, beautifully written scenes that gives the reader a real feel for a lost time and place.
what went wrong for me?Do you remember James Joyce said that if Dublin burned down he wanted them to be able to rebuild it by reading Ulysses, meaning that every brick and stone, every chemists shop and stretch of beach, every busker and cabman's shelter was to be found in Ulysses in its exact location and condition in the book, not one atom changed around, so that in many ways Ulysses is not to be described as a work of fiction at all.
Paul Scott was evidently a major fan of the late Henry James and he likes to run amok with those clauses - there's a kind of effete machismo about the long sentence.
Even after more than twenty years (I think it's nearer twenty-five), I can recall the some scenes as if I had read the novel yesterday.Just look at how Scott starts the novel off:Imagine, then, a flat landscape, dark for the moment, but even so conveying to a girl running in the still deeper shadow cast by the wall of the Bibighar Gardens an idea of immensity, of distance, such as years before Miss Crane had been conscious of, standing where a lane ended and cultivation began...Like To Kill a Mockingbird and One Hundred Years of Solitude, the first paragraph hooks you with the whole story encapsulated in it.
"Imagine, then, a flat landscape, dark for the moment, but even so conveying to a girl running in the still deeper shadows cast by the wall of the Bibighar Gardens an idea of immensity, of distance, such as years before Miss Crane had been conscious of standing where a lane ended and cultivation began: a different landscape but also in the alluvial plain between the mountains of the north and the plateau of the south."The first in Paul Scott’s Raj Quartet, The Jewel in the Crown is a remarkable allegory about the relationship between the imperialistic power of Britain and her gem that is India.
Her story is very moving, and details both the increasingly strained relationships between the British and the Indian people, and the catastrophic events leading up to her final act of (view spoiler)[committing suttee (hide spoiler)].“As Mr. Poulson said afterwards, the troubles in Mayapore began for him with the sight of old Miss Crane sitting in the pouring rain by the roadside holding the hand of a dead Indian.”It is indeed a tragic tale, and happening at the same time, in many ways parallels the central theme; the rape of a young British woman, both revealing the unrest, oppression and mob rule between which communities lurched at this time.
He suggested that the British should leave India "to God or to anarchy."Scott picked this specific rebellious time to place the rape of the English woman- Daphne Manners- by a rioting gang of Indian "savages"; the brutal beating and framing of her lover- an anglicized, well educated, sophisticated Indian man, Hari Kumar- and the pursuant, violent aftermath between civilians and the police force, led by the arrogant, bigoted, less educated Brit, Ronald Merrick.
A white man in India can feel physically superior without unsexing himself.
For example, Hari is Indian born, raised in England, educated at a prestigious school and speaks English better than the Brits.
I quoted that first sentence because it is such a clear summary of the book: the rape, the context of events, and the setting: the fictional town of Mayapore in British-ruled India in 1942.
So we have the English governess who leaves her own tribe to work with Indians, the widow of an Indian awarded one of the highest honors from the British crown, a white woman of uncertain nationality whose mission is to work with the poor, and an Indian lawyer enjoying the first fruits of a supposedly classless society.With the fifth section, we finally get to a major character, Hari Kumar.
My yardstick for excellent writing about a foreign culture is probably Paul Scott's "The Raj Quartet", which was the basis for the BBC TV series "The Jewel in the Crown".
Though I do think, if I had to make a judgement that books 1 and 3 in the quartet slightly outrank the other two.
But, overall, if you find yourself with time on your hands (even if you don't), the "Raj Quartet" is a wonderful world in which to lose yourself for a couple of weeks.Then check out the BBC series on DVD and marvel at just how perfect the adaptation is.
I was so awed by the technique that I found myself flipping back through the pages thinking 'how is he doing that to my brain?', but as the story unfolded I found myself reading faster and faster, willing myself towards some end that I sensed would be dark, but perhaps not without hope.
Wasn't too sure what to quite expect from the opening novel of The Raj Quartet, it exceeded my expectations.
The novel deals with the ending of British rule in India.
The story surrounds a specific event and is told from varying points of view.
It did require some patience to start with, sorting out the characters and their relation to each other.
Quite rich in detail, atmosphere and the politics of the time, India's quest for Independence.
Based on this opening novel have gone on and purchased the other novels in the quartet.
An interesting period in history, one that I knew very little about.
Into this powder keg are dropped an English girl, Daphne Manners, who has been raised by a liberal-minded aunt and uncle, and an Indian boy, Hari Kumar, who has been reared in England and knows nothing of India and the squalor or prejudices she contains.On page one we are told, This is the story of a rape, of the events that led up to it and followed it and of the place in which it happened.
I am so terribly busy at the moment.The book does an excellent job of depicting how Indians and the British looked at each other at the time of Partition.
The book discusses the same events over and over again showing how the different characters saw these same events.
I checked several times b/c I could not believe there was just one narrator.I am not one to love a mystery and I am not one who loves British mannerisms.
You actually get very little history, but you do get the atmosphere of the times.The above explains why I gave the book three stars.
It stops being a case about a British and an Indian; the investigation takes a different turn when the British woman, Daphne, mentions possibility of a Muslim to be present during the heinous act.
Using this very publicized case, Paul Scott ruthlessly tears down class structure within British living in India, the communal tension that had always been on back burner in many Indian states, non-sympathetic British rules for educated Indians and the general apathy that many characters have - irrespective of their race or color, towards another.
But it is a white robot and it can't distinguish between love and rape.A searing, harrowing, bleak and terrible indictment of British rule in India, this is perhaps the most sophisticated, nuanced and self-aware analysis of colonialism and its inevitably violent destruction that I've read.
This mode of telling does mean that there's a lack of dynamism in the story as so much is 'told' to us rather than shown or dramatised, but the richness, the detail, the acute analysis, the creation of viewpoints is so magnificently crafted that I could forgive that.This isn't an easy read both because of the sometimes horribly-disturbing subject matter, and the density of the narrative and sheer amount of detail packed into the story - it's a book that requires, and deserves, concentration.
I was watching 'Faulks on Fiction' when he discuses one of the Villains of the novel, but Scott opened up a different world, one that is on the point of boiling point, and the English are too busy having a tea party to know that water is bubbling over the pot.
This is still very much an English view of India, but it is fair and well balanced, and a gorgeous piece of literature.
Though this book ranks high on the literary scale, and as a subject of interest-- India at the end of the British era, 1930-40s, I got tired of reading it long before the end. Scott gives so many viewpoints of the same event, it was difficult for me to continue turning the pages. Mixed feelings about continuing the series.
We learn the events leading up to the rape, its immediate aftermath, the way the case against the accused was prosecuted and the effects the whole affair had on those involved.
There are undoubtedly a lot of digressions – they’re necessary to fully flesh out the world – but the central crime and its effects are never lost sight of.Paul Scott is not a writer I knew a great deal about (though thanks to my good chum Wikipedia I now know a bit more) but I’m deeply impressed with what I’ve read so far and will hunt down other books by him.Masterful.
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:Daphne Manners arrives in Mayapore and meets two men who are to change her li
Under-appreciated, this is a masterful look at the complications (sexual and otherwise) of colonialism. Just read the first paragraph, and you know you're in the hands of a master stylist.
The superior mastery on display in The Jewel in the Crown put those doubts to rest for good.Daphne Manners, Hari Kumar, and Mayapore—where have you been all my life?Although at times the seemingly infinite depths of self-awareness of our hero ("young Mr. Kumar") and heroine ("that Manners girl") strain credulity, this is the sole flaw in this mind-expanding, gorgeous, devastating, and provocative look at a number of exemplary British and Indian specimens living on the edge between brown and white in 1942 in rural India.Mr. Scott starts Jewel with the story of a sexless, agnostic, Gandhi-admiring spinster named Miss Crane who has bootstrapped out a kind of dignity as a mission school administrator in Mayapore: 
Even the staid portions of the narrative that brush race aside echo from its jarring omission, and we are presented with not only the hushed tones of social acceptance that crush competing belief, but also with tales of personal struggles to live among these slowly changing attitudes and not be compromised by them, or more accurately to be compromised and to question the path that lead to the compromise.I was particularly taken by the personal powerlessness of almost every party, the feeling that though the present situation is wrong it is inevitable, and that it will continue whether they get out of the way or not.
Given just my own experience I could not imagine that situation, but thanks to Scott's fantastic novel I think I can conjure up the outline of that kind of crippling emptiness, and am, I hope, a slightly better person for it.
This book took a long time to get going.
In fact, it was taking long enough that I had to adjust how much I was trying to read in a day, so I didn't keep getting frustrated by never getting near my goal.
Just that it was slow, and incredibly looping, moving around and around the crux of the novel without ever quite getting close to it until the end.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Part One of The Raj Quartet, this long novel has rape as its core...but not the physical rape of Daphne.
That rape is used as a vehicle to explore the complex relationships between the British and the Indians in India in the years leading up to 1942.The book is divided into sections, each one giving a different perspective on the "Bibighar Incident" and on what it means to be Indian, to be British, to be a colonizer and one of the colonized, to be black or white...an engrossing multi-faceted work that presents the happenings like a kaleidoscope.
تاريخ القراءة الأصلية : ٢٠٠١إحدى أعظم الروايات التاريخية في اللغة الإنجليزية..مظلومة في هذه الأيام
And Deputy Commissioner Robin White who understands "the moral drift of history" (p.342), and its matrix of "emotions," "ambitions," and "reactions." And his wife, who understood Daphne's motivations, and her sacrifice.In the upper center, between MacGregor House and Bibighar Lady Chatterjee, whose chattering reveals far more than idle gossip, and above Siva's center positioning is the sleeping, dreaming Vishnu, brother of Paravati.Finally, to the right and just below Hari/Harry is Parvati in her singing posture, with two attendants approaching bearing a palanquin.
Years ago (more years than I care to own up to), I tried reading this.
But a few weeks ago, I had to read this book.
Not sure why, but I'm glad I did.I think the first time I read it the style threw me off, and I wanted Daphne from the first and got Miss Crane.Or I could have been tried.
It is the start of defall of the Raj, and the stir of nationalism that leads to Independence (or Indians getting thier country back to more extact).
The heart of the story is the rape of Daphne Chambers and the far out of that event.
The Raj Quartet  is my mother’s favorite series of all time, so like with  The Lord of the Rings  trilogy, I’ve heard raves about it for decades, but it took a Goodreads group read for me to finally start it. And yes, it deserves all the praise my mother heaped on it. Truly, this is a masterpiece. The story is set in India in the 1940’s, so the rebellion of colonized India against British rule is a major theme, but the story is about individual Brits and natives and their relationship with each
The main characters are people who don’t really fit into either world – a white Englishwoman who loves India and hates the snobbery and cruelty of the British ruling class and an Indian man who, because of his education, is more English than Indian.What makes the book unique is the telling.
The very first page tells you that it is the story of a rape, but because the story is revealed in gradual increments through the perspectives of a variety of characters, you don’t really understand what happened until the very end.
Like the relationships between the characters, it’s complicated.I highly recommend this book, but it is a time commitment.
It’s one of the best books I’ve ever read.
I already feel like I need to read this again. It is sort of Rashomon-like, the way it tells the same story from different perspectives, but it is also epistolary, because so much was told through diaries, letters, and even a book excerpt. Ummm I'm getting interrupted by a visitor so maybe I'll be back to muse some more about this book and maybe not. In any case, I want to read the rest of the books and see the British mini-series based on the quartet.
I stand by it: This is beyond orientalist, not a culprit of the genre at all. Paul Scott undoes Forster, the British colonial mindset, and the orientalist-model historic novel. It is brilliant. If you tell me you saw the BBC miniseries and thought it was anti-post-subaltern-modern, I will get annoyed.
From BBC radio 4 Extra:Episode 1 of 3Daphne Manners arrives in Mayapore and meets two men who are to
