https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10034956-three-to-get-married
In this era of mass confusion about sexuality and marriage, this book is a must-read for anyone, but it definitely should be required reading for engaged couples preparing for marriage.
Now if I could just convince Sarah that we should add "Fulton" to our list of future baby names!It's difficult to pick one quote; my highlighter went dry on this book.
It is merely a means of bringing out the best that is in it for the sake of the master.
The bridling of passions in like manner is for the sake of bringing out the best that is in man for the sake of the Divine Master!
I absolutely loved this book and I underlined so many passages because I plan on going back to the text to read several of these passages again.
I never would have thought that a priest could truly understand marriage to write a book about love in a marriage and having God in a marriage.
I would have to say that most people know much less than Fulton Sheen about marriage and I am including people who are already married.I think everyone could only grow in love and faith by reading this book.
I love Fulton Sheen but personally I found this book of his to be a bit too philosophical for my own taste, and very repetitive, and hard to concentrate on, but that is probably just me- I prefer lighter reads. The content is good, though. The philosophy is interwoven with quotes of poetry! The author is clearly in love with and well-versed in his subject matter.
When I was preparing for my marriage to my husband I read this book and it just set things straight for me.
In society we are caught up in the rush that we forget what our vocation is in life.
I found this book was a real wake up call for me and I loved reading it.
What I love is, it shows a priest does not need to be married to understand marriage.
I love this book and recommend it to everyone whether you are married, thinking about getting married in the future or anyone who wants to understand marriage the way God intended it to be.
We based our marriage and adoption on this. A marriage cannot survive without God as the 3rd person. His concept that all marriages must be fecund (fruitful) showed me of the need to be other centered and choose to adopt which has been the greatest gift to our marriage.
A little theology, anyone? Best. . .book. . .ever on the subject of marriage, sexuality, love, human relationships, and what role God plays in human love. Truly a book that will change your life.
Sublime.
I'm really glad that he did, because the book was very thought-provoking and I think that it had a lot of good insight as to what a strong Catholic marriage should be like.
There were some chapters that I felt were very strong - the chapter "For Better or For Worse" is particularly relevant nowadays, in my opinion, because it reminds the reader that marriage is supposed to be forever, and in a world where divorce is increasingly common, I think this is a very important chapter to read.
I think that's definitely something that could be improved in my relationship and I'm glad that this book got me thinking about it.
This book is everything Pre-Cana classes should be for Catholics about to get married.
My wife and I received this book as a gift before we got married, and only read two pages before laughing it off as old-fashioned.
He brings everything back to God and how marriage is ultimately a way for each partner to grow closer to Him. He warns us that we will get bored with our partners, or that our partners might become unfaithful or alcoholics, but that those things should spur us to greater holiness rather than despair and divorce.
Every Catholic considering marriage should read this.
I want to give this one a higher rating, but I found it pretty challenging to get through (for the second time). Archbishop Sheen's insights and understanding are simultaneously genius and simple. His writing here is like nuggets of gold left over from smelting away all of the fluff and padding of other more typical moral writing. And for me that was the problem. There wasn't any break from one deep thought to the next.
Yes!! This book is awesome!! What else can I say? For more than half of it, I was nodding in agreement. Wait, I think that was the whole book, minus the few fascinating tales of conversion in marriage.
Wow wow wow. This was everything I wished my senior thesis could be! Informative, philosophical, and actually really inspiring (why am I not married yet??)! I think my favorite chapter was The Dark Night of the Body because it brings to light the main reason why marriages fail today. Probably a must-read for any one who's seriously contemplating marriage; it's a Catholic way of looking at marriage with your eyes open, which is, let's be honest, the best way.
THE VERY BEST BOOK ON MARRIAGE!
I absolutely loved and adored this book.
It's written at a higher level than Life is Worth Living, but I didn't have a problem understanding it despite being a laywoman.
That being said, I can see where it might be a difficult read for some people.
I'm really not sure how to describe this ...
if you're Catholic it's worth a read.
Definitely stands alone but could easily be read alongside Theology of the Body, or other JPII writings for a more complete picture of the church's teachings.
This book for me represented a bridge and aid to my understanding of JPII's "Theology of the Body".
He speaks in prose and has so many great one liners that I found myself furiously scribbling them down only to find another two sentences later.
I found myself wishing that I would love for the person that was to become my spouse in years to come understood these things and that I too would be able to understand, believe and live them.
TL;DR 4.5/5 only taking off half a star because it is not the most accessible book to pick up and read, but very much worth it.
I started this book expecting a slim self-help concerning marriage and ended up neck deep in ontology and the teleological ends of existence, watched a brutal takedown of the materialistic viewpoint (especially in regards to marriage, the treatment of women, and of maintaining civil society) and ended up taking months to finish a 200 page book that I was actively reading.
It's dense, but one can tell the Archbishop enjoyed writing this book.
As I say, books are the food and training of the mind, and this one will be a workout.
Warning: deceptively small book. Just before reading this book I acquired the habit of underlining exceptional passages in my books. After underlining all of the first three pages I decided, for the sake of the aesthetic integrity of the book (and because Fulton Sheen says you haven't read a book until you've read it twice, and I was making it unreadable), that I would stop underlining. Sentence after sentence contains powerful ideas. Bishop Sheen is too popular for academic theologians, but this book proves a good communicator doesn't mean a communicator of simple ideas.
Peter and I read this before we got married. We should read it again. It's good. Everyone should read it before they get married.
Good but very deep.
Started slow but the last three chapters were wonderful and very inspiring.
At times its as if he is repeating himself over again, but all in all a good discussion book. There is some really good stuff in here about the sacrament of marriage.
Great book, everyone Married should read this at least once.
It was a great book to prepare oneself for the sublime vocation of Matrimony. A must read!
Preparing for a marriage in April, this book was recommended to both my fiancee and I.
What a read it was.Taking a lot of content from Pope Paul VI's "Humanae Vitae" (which is a great work in itself, it even prophesied a lot of evil that is current today, e.g. objectification and disrespect of women, population control, etc.), the Venerable Fulton Sheen lays out the foundations of marriage and not only its sacramental importance, but its place in society as the foundation of it.Marriage is a vocation with no room for selfishness.
It is an entire giving of one's self to the other, "for better or worse".
This collection of exuberant meditations on the mystery of Holy Matrimony is highly recommended for engaged couples and newlyweds. I chose this for Lenten spiritual reading as I was approaching my first anniversary and the birth of my first child. Fulton Sheen's writing style is like an overflowing fountain. The ideas tumble and leap in a dazzling barrage, rhapsodies flowing, one into the next. The chapters can sometimes be hard to follow in a single reading so take your time to process this one!
I wanted to like this book a lot more than I did. I just don't think I'm a fan of Sheen's writing style. He's verbose; ideas that could be explained in a paragraph are explained in three pages. I did glean a few good insights, especially from the final chapters on endurance and suffering in marriage, but not enough to redeem the book as a whole.
Love. Love. Love. Would recommend it to every engaged couple/ anyone exploring the vocation of marriage. The husband and I are going to read it again.What I love about Fulton Sheen is that you don't need to try to get the depth of everything he says and get stuck, keep going. He says the same thing again and again indifferent ways so you get it. And he is funny. And he makes frys Freud all day.
Incisive reflections on the importance of God in the marital relationship. Sheen offers a particularly beautiful reflection on the nature of the Trinity and the necessity of suffering united to Christ.
Nice short book! It was the perfect foil to Brave New World that I read last week, although that was just a happy coincidence. Definitely a must listen for any Catholic engaged couples. Audio book was phenomenal, Fulton Sheen has a powerful voice that really drives the point home.
A great deal has been made, with good reason, about the Theology of the Body in conservative Catholic circles.
The focus is marriage, but he sees God as a partner in Love between two people at all stages in life, especially once the vows are made.
Probably the biggest point is that vows are for life; hope always remains, and one spouse can redeem a couple.
The book ends with some nice vignettes about couple in history where Love conquered pain (I won't say suffering, for suffering with Love is redemptive).Included in the "Spiritual Reading" section of Fr. John McCloskey's 100-book Catholic Lifetime Reading Plan.

