https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/94675.An_Actor_Prepares
For what now seem like silly rationals, I avoided reading Stanislavski mostly because I assumed his seminal trilogy of books on acting, which began being published in 1936, would be outdated at the best, and a burdonsome slog at worst.
You get the sense that both characters represent Stanislavski himself: Kostya being the author when he was a young actor, Torstov after he has grown and earned years of experience.
But if you've ever read any text on any kind of theory, whether it be on teaching or acting (my two fields), you know that books of the like often assume ideal circumstances that don't actually exist in real life.
I have to be careful in reviewing this seeing as I'm an acting student. While Stanislavksi is the founder of naturalism acting and his work is highly praised I find this book to be a very difficult read because I don't fully agree on his ideas in acting such as emotional memory. I'll use this extract from a recent essay I wrote:   [Emotional memory] is not a method that should be used often as it can end up attenuating the original memory. Because memories are particular to each person they shou
While Stanislavksi is the founder of naturalism acting and his work is highly praised I find this book to be a very difficult read because I don't fully agree on his ideas in acting such as emotional memory.
I, personally, find that emotional memory does not work as, I feel, that as it dilutes the original memory and it can also feel damaging in a way.
Even though Stanislavski was a pioneer of naturalistic acting I just don’t find his method of emotional memory a useful tool when it comes to my acting.
This is one of the most influential, in my opinion, acting books I have read.
An Actor Prepares (The Acting Books #1), Konstantin Stanislavski عنوان: کار هنرپیشه روی خود در جریان
Telling you that this is a seminal work on method acting, one that most actors worth their salt consider a Bible, won't do the trick.
Why would any of us be interested in an actor's handbook?Telling you that this is an engaging read would be a stretch.
Think of it as a textbook in method acting, and it starts to make a lot more sense.The best thing this book did for me was to open up some perspective on the art of acting, on what it means to build a character from the ground up.
A young actor describing his day-to-day jitters , his self-doubts, his insecurities, his moods.
And the book is longish--so its going to be a slog of a read.
You can discover many observations about human psychology here, which (even without being an actor) are useful to help you understand yourself and your everyday behavior.
It's an intense read, a book of ideas.
Mamet lays great emphasis on 'simplicity' in stage acting; and yes it may be that some Method actors go too far in their flouncy backstage shenanigans, their green-room perambulations...but the heart of this Method is one entirely in simplicity.
This and Building a Character and Creating a Role) are not academic books on theatre history. But they are far too important and influential to ignore. In the Actor Prepares Trilogy, Stanislavski defines acting as a very serious activity requiring immense discipline and integrity. He lays out a system for acting that demands a kind of psychological realism that was rarely seen in pre-19th Century acting styles. It is common for teachers of acting to regard the works of Stanislavski as the beginning of the modern era in terms of how young theatre artists are trained.
It's a very difficult book to read. There's a lack of simplicity...otherwise the book is good.
Lo lei hace 15 años cuando realizaba teatro en aquel tiempo. No me acuerdo mucho de este libro por lo que me es dificil puntearlo
i remember once staying at a hostel in hollywood that no longer exists where a decade retrospective of the show was on the tv in the lobby.
i was being obnoxiously amused that they had had tom cruise and bart simpson on and remember how uncomfortable my derisive norcal sarcasm was to socal desperate industry ambitions held by the hostel occupants hoping to “make it”.
is there anyting to method?
this text is in three volumes, and i don’t expect i’m likely to actually advance my curiosity past this one.
Très stimulant! J'ai découvert que chaque acteur joue le même rôle différemment en éveillant ses sentiments de son passé, de son expérience.
Read for school
Yeah so, this really made me think about acting.
My fav quotes (not a review):An Actor Prepares (Constantin Stanislavski)-Page 95 |"The exercises which the Director used today had the purpose of making the students conscious of the fact that on the stage, in every pose or position of the body, there are three moments: First: superfluous tenseness which comes necessarily with each new pose taken and with the excitement of doing it in public.
Second: the mechanical relaxation of that superfluous tension, under the direction of the "controller" Third: justification of the pose if it in itself does not convince the actor."-Page 107 "Yesterday you and I had a quarrel.
I was never required to read this text in my intro to acting classes in college, even though we all knew this book was what the beginning lessons were based on.
You follow the learning processes of a small handful of acting students who have decided to learn "the system." I really felt my affection for the students grow as they struggled with wanting to make great art, made disappointing or embarrassing mistakes, had to figure out what went wrong and how to bounce back, and had battles with the director.
The best way to see the great effect he had is by seeing what Russian theatre was like before him, basically in true Russian form, a drunken mess.
You read this, and see how many points are the basic norm for all western theatre.
So why on earth did he feel the need to write it like this?
Although, there are some unexpected hilarious moments.Overall he could of said the same thing with 150 less pages, and reach a greater audience by being more clear.
And that is exactly the thing he protests against.
This is the first of three books describing Stanislavski’s method of acting, known even to us non-actors as “the method.” I read it for research, but the ideal reader is actually practicing these exercises while reading the book; it’s not meant to be a purely intellectual exercise.
Still, I learned from the book, and since it’s written in journal-style, it’s not as boring as you might think.The main point is that actors should draw on their own emotional memories when performing their roles.
It’s parallel to the advice in my favorite writing book, Becoming a Writer by Dorothea Brande.
If not for my research, though, I probably wouldn’t have bothered reading it.
The writing style is from a much earlier era: the lessons framed in the context of a group of young actors being trained by a director---told as a story rather than directly.
While this is not the ONLY way to act by any means, the skills used for character-building are the fundamentals for many of the most highly recognized actors working in the profession today.I read this as a writer studying the craft of character creation.
This is a fabulous resource of ideas and techniques I will employ as I round-out my novel work.
"Courting the Muse" is definitely a priority.As a book, it isn't perfect.
Each chapter up to the last two begins with a simple narrative filled by a question answer form.
However, upon reading “An Actor Prepares”, I was startled to realize that most of this bundle of written information would apply to many more creative fields both professional and private.
(I was wondering personally about what information I might use for my hobby of horseback riding after the chapters on Adaption and Communion.) I would recommend it for those willing to submit to the form.
The language is dry at times but extremely effective; the bare bones of creativity and the fluidity of living beings.
A big help when it comes to getting the basis of being an honest actor. I don't know how I feel about his weird story telling writing style though. P.S. read the italics
dont' know what to give this book in the way of stars... possibly the most amazing book on acting theory ever- but can feel slightly patronizing. a must for anyone studying theatre.
I read this book a few years ago, in good part out of morbid curiosity because Gary reads it to prepare for the grand showdown in that movie Team America: World Police.Quite frankly, I don't have an acting background.
Worse, I was granted assisting tasks backstage during the annual play and never did any acting roles.Therefore, I don't have the target background for the book and really didn't have any idea what I was going to read.
I think it conveys its purpose well, but the writing is so tedious that I did struggle a lot reading it, which is the main reason why I gave it 3 stars.However, you lose nothing by at least looking into the book.
As an actress, this book is truly marvelous. If you are a performer and are wanting to pick up a book on technique, run to the nearest bookstore and pick this one up. I recommend taking your time with this one - Stanislavski is a complex read, but well worth the time. Note that this IS followed bu Building A Character and Creating A Role; both important additions to his thoughts in this book.
Insightful for anyone interested in acting (not only actors I would say); sometimes a bit slow, but if you focus on the message the author wanted to get across, you will find a bunch of mind-blowing ideas.
Not just for actors, has great insight into all aspects of life. It sounds like a boring instructional book, but all the examples and teachings are done while telling a story of the people in his class learning the subjects.
Çizgifilmci olarak okudum ve canlandırma yapmak isteyen biri için çok faydalı olacağını düşünüyorum.
Rating: 4 / 5
Stanislavski is a theater legend. I think he's overly serious but he has a revolutionary view. Really helped me improving my play.
Bizim amacımız yalnızca bir insan ruhu yaratmak değil, aynı zamanda bunu ‘Güzel, sanatsal bir formla ifade etmek.’
A must read for actors.
I am an actor. This is research. On to the next.
