https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13436373-drama
(hide spoiler)]If you're going to read this book, I hope you rate it because you liked (or disliked) the story and not because it contains "the gay." Well look, now you've been warned.
If gay people bother you and you don't want your kids to read about them, don't give them this book.
I went into this graphic novel a bit wary, since I had read Telgemeier's Smile and wasn't the biggest fan... But with this newest addition I was ecstatic to find that Drama was nothing like I'd anticipated. Callie loves theater. And while she would totally try out for her middle school's production of Moon Over Mississippi, she can't really sing. Instead she's the set designer for the drama department stage crew, and this year she's determined to create a set worthy of Broadway on a middle-schoo
Instead she's the set designer for the drama department stage crew, and this year she's determined to create a set worthy of Broadway on a middle-school budget.
On a totally separate note, Drama had a number of enjoyable moments that left me grinning from ear to ear.
The tons of laugh-out-loud moments, plus the cast of characters being a bunch of loving and dedicated kids kept me satisfied from start to finish.
On that note, I'll wrap up my review to say one last thing: Drama is a noteworthy graphic novel jam-packed with kids full of talent, courage, and dedication.
3 stars Callie is a middle school girl who loves theater, ever since she was a little girl.
Pretty soon her personal life and the play life becomes intertwined for everyone, and drama onstage and offstage ensues.Anyone who has ever had anything to do with a school play, or even a professional play will adore this book.
Placed in middle school, Callie is still struggling to find herself and discovering what she wants.
One moment that I thought was cute that parents may not was when the two boys ended up kissing on stage.
A cute book perfect for readers in middle or early high school.
Drama Love!
I love theatre geeks and people of the theatre.
I was in the pit of the musicals and I got to be around the actors and I loved it.
Theatre culture is amazing and I adore the people.
I feel like this little story captures those high school theatre days so well.
Raina hits the notes perfectly.
There is drama everywhere.
The subject is handled very well and I love this story.
Raina has some good stories but this is my favorite story of hers.
I love this little book.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Drama was meant to be a Banned Books Week selection, but the wait list at the library was a little longer than anticipated (and hopefully full of children who were taking a stand against censorship and not just old ladies like me).
Be true to yourself –you can play sports or be in the band or be in drama or want to kiss a girl or a boy – just be a good person.
Raina Telgemeier does it again. She has a knack for telling a serious yet humorous story with colorful, fun artwork. I loved her main character Callie- she was a very real 7th grade girl. I also loved that this book was not about the lead actress in a musical- it was about the stage crew (though some actors did play a part). Raina also does a wonderful job at introducing middle school boys who are questioning their sexuality in an unbiased, nonjudgmental way. It is completely appropriate for middle grade and it is very accessible to readers. Well done!!!
[3.5]
Guest Post by Addie, my 9-year-old daughterDRAMA is about girl named Callie who is in a acting class at school.
She likes a boy who finds out he is gay in acting class.
Callie loves to read acting books at the library.
Callie learns about gay people and how she can still be friends with them.My reaction: Well, I guess I probably should have read this first before giving it to Addie!
I do think it's funny that when I asked what she liked about the book or what she learned from it, she wrote the 2nd paragraph.
Review originally posted on RatherBeReadingBlog.com:I am absolutely giddy in love with Raina Telgemeier’s work.Drama is the first graphic novel I’ve ever read and while it only took me about an hour to get through it, I couldn’t stop going back and smiling over the details in these colorful scenes and how perfectly Raina has been able to capture the middle school experience.And for the theater lovers, finally: a book that celebrates those dear people who work on the stage crew, the kookiness that ensues, the intertwining love stories, budget constraints and trying to actually get people to the shows.
This book was something that you can really connect to! Callie is a normal teen that deals with typical boy drama along with handling a romantic play. However, if you want some advice for boy drama, I wouldn't go to her if I were you. :)
Why is this?!I guess I believe, or at least can hypothesize based on my personal experience, that a significant portion of one's best self - including the part that constructively solves problems and contends with challenges, and the part that empathizes and connects with others and develops a sense of self in relation to them - is developed during a critical high school window that, in the case of myself, and presumably many others, happens to occur right around the peak time period of prospective involvement in school drama club, a place where even the most introverted kids can be compelled to safely push comfort zones, interact with others, formulate and share opinions, and be encouraged to use one's unique talents to contribute to the betterment of a community.
This has consistently been one of the most popular graphic novels for middle graders in every school library I've worked in.
It's fun, it's an interesting story, and the art is great.
Essentially, it's the story of a year 7 kid who's working on the set design for the school play.
I loved the fact that it's a middle grade graphic novel with LGBTQIA representation, and that said representation is handled as well and as explicitly as it is.
There's no hinting that these characters are attracted to people of the same gender.
They get literal heart eyes for people of the same gender.
That said, I find this book to be the weakest, less captivating and most dramatic graphic novel she’s written/illustrated.
So I did expect it and was able to tolerate it – Actually, in many cases, drama can make a story more interesting.
But unfortunately, although I found the story realistic and enjoyed reading about the behind-the-scenes of plays, I could not connect with the heroine as well as I could with the other heroines Miss Telgemeier introduced us to in her other works.
If you ask me who I think was born to become a graphic novelist, the name Raina Telgemeier comes to my mind almost immediately.
Okay im officially a Raina Telgemeier fan. Her stories and characters and illustrations are sooo good and relateable. Down to earth and realistic. And so cute.
The one thing that I didn't like in how the gay characters was the ending; I'll discuss this more later.The other characters were just as well-rendered from the wild and outgoing Callie to the quiet and funny Jesse.
I loved how their interactions were handled; their conflicts were realistic, but they were nicely resolved in a way that I think is healthy for kids to see.
I wasn't a huge fan of the character designed; there was something slightly too cartoony about them; they should've been a bit more realistic looking.
The drama is mostly off stage in this teen-filled soap opera surrounding a high school musical. Kids here are trying to discover themselves, and their sexual orientation . . . all while putting on a Broadway-quality production. And, I love that Telgemeier focuses mostly on the stage crew rather than the actors. Favorite line - But think of the people who might come if they knew there was a cannon involved.This is utterly charming from beginning to end.
dramatic?) and Callie is my personal favorite so far of all of Telgemeier's characters.Our son graduated from a high school that has a drama program that you just would NOT believe.
Every show we have attended has been at "off Broadway" standards, and several of his peers have gone on to pursue Broadway and/or a serious study of music at Berklee, so the portrayal of the "drama scene" at this school felt completely authentic to me.Just an FYI.
as a parent, I would like to give the heads-up here that both early dating and "coming out" are running themes in the book.
Young Callie, a seventh grader, has a busy romantic life and a habit of falling for boys.
who like boys.
Read this with my 8 year old. We both thought it was cute!
This is a fun, well-paced, sensitive book, that deals with the vital backstage activities that make up any successful theatre production: middle school, Broadway, and every stage in between.
Callie is presented as a 7th grader with self-awareness, who still must deal with all the complications that come with mercurial middle school friendships and crushes.
And while most of the scenes are realistically drawn, the sequence in which Callie and Jesse imagine themselves inside a theatrical set-design book, and in early 20th-century stage productions, is beautifully original, and a nice break from the drama.
So far I think the theme of the book is to follow your dreams and never give up.
I think this because so far in the book the characters have all been doing what they love and is their dream like, if they wanted to be quarter back on the football team then the character would go to football tryouts and if they wanted to play violin they would audition for orchestra.
So far I really like this book and I think it's certainly a good read.
Fun behind the scenes look at being a backstage drama nerd in junior high (although this felt more like high school to me). Callie is a very appealing young woman with a passion for set design. I love that she is more concerned about getting the prop cannon to work than she is about finding a boyfriend, although she does have a crush.Just the right amount of twists, a dash of teenage embarrassment, and lots of humor. Especially recommended for theater kids.
LOVE. Cannot say this enough, and a longer, more pithy review will be coming soon, but I want to see this one in EVERY. SINGLE. LIBRARY. Multiple copies. Elementary, middle, high school, public, I want it there. And Rainbow Committee, COLAGE, Our Family Coalition, GSA Network, GLSEN, I want this on every book list, you'd be idiots not to. Every so often I just want to gush thanks and praise at an author, and I am totally there with this one right now.
Interesting and funny little graphic novel, but it doesn't have much to offer in terms of originality. First Jeff Kinney, now it's Raina Telgemeier who's the next middle-grade graphic novel star. But these books are all the same, just typical school stuff with no substance.
i'm still trash for this book
יופי של ספר. ריינה טלגמאייר היא אחת הקומיקסאיות החביבות עליי.
You can't even imagine what Callie (Main Character) was going threw.
Callie loves theater.
But when her school decided to put on the play Moon Over Mississippi they have many singing parts.
The problem is, Bonnie is one of the main characters in the story.
So is Greg, the story is " a love story." Greg and Bonnie are supposed to kiss in the play.
" Why am I reading this?" If you liked Smile you would love this book.
This book is also kind of like Sisters becuase it has love, hate, and a whole lot more feelings in this.
As a huge fan of SMILE and Raina Telgemeier, I was excited to read DRAMA and thankful that I was able to pick up an ARC at ALA.
And I think it was Raina who said that DRAMA is a little like "GLEE for Middle School".
However, because of all of this, I find that for some elementary parents, there may be some resistance to having younger fans of Telgemeier's work read this one.
I would use the GLEE rule of thumb...if parents let their younger kids watch GLEE than read away.
Many little kids have parents/cousins/aunts/uncles/grandparents/family friends/whatever in same-gender relationships.
If you think so, then you best be banning books depicting opposite-gender romances.
My nine-year-old niece read this after we both read "Smile" and she loved it but warned me that "Some people think it's gross because of something that happens, but I don't think it's gross because [I am not a bigot and have queer family members]." Shame on all those who would try to infect my niece with their homophobia.
So glad that "Drama" was published, and here's to the day when bigots don't try to get books banned for depicting a G-rated (because thats what this book depicts) reality.
Drama is one of my favorite books because it shows that being gay is ok. Also that you don't need to keep it a secret from all of your friends. If one of your friends are feeling down ask them what's wrong. This book shows that things change between friends. Being gay isn't bad it's not wrong to like the Same sex. Same sex is ok some people like the same sex some don't.
This book had more romantic twists than an episode of My So-Called Life! Being the drama kid that I was, I wish this had been centered more on the middle school stage production. It also felt rushed and 2-D, which is how I felt about Stitches. Oh well, I'm still a Telgemeir fan.
