https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43070.The_Essential_Calvin_and_Hobbes
Your precocious Calvin was what every kid with an overactive imagination is in their own heads, but you also gave us the view of what the rest of the world sees in these kids and does to try and beat the imagination out of them.
There's implied sadness in the explicit joy you gave us, and it makes Calvin and Hobbes a true masterpiece.
I want to see Calvin as a Dad, and I want his son (or daughter) with a beaten up, super ratty, devilish-as-ever Hobbes.
My dad gave me this book Christmas 2009, and I prior to reading it last week, I had not experienced Calvin and Hobbes.
I had not sat down with a thick, luscious book full of Calvin and Hobbes strips, full of wonderful, pinpoint and intelligent humour.When I did finally sit down, I fell in love.
And I know now what I did not know as a child: it is tough to keep your child-like enthusiasm when the world expects you, requires you to be an adult.So I think a child, an adolescent, or an older adult are all going to get something different from Calvin and Hobbes than I will.
My Parents swore upon their honorThat I was safe, and not a goner.I guess tomorrow they'll see their sad mistakes.Here lies Calvin, devoured in his bed by a monster....
If only we had treated him better....Oh Boy, Calvin and Hobbes is way to funny and should read by every humans-person on the planet.I am laughing my heart out on this comedy book.
Calvin has it all.
The imagination and work the author has dedicated to this series makes me jump with excitement and everything feels so adventurous once you read Calvin and Hobbes.The Essential Calvin and Hobbes comic strips are indeed Essential.
Calvin and Hobbes were always two of my favourite characters that I was impatient for from Sunday afternoon until Monday's paper.
Every day there was a new crazy or incredibly mature statement from Calvin and his adventures with Hobbes are unforgettable.
The book is nice in that it has 6 strips from the comics of the Monday to Saturday comics in black and white and a full colour page from the Sunday paper.
Incredibly imaginative and insightful for both kids and parents, this is one of the best ever kids comics.
Hilarious, cute, perfect, and perfect again!
DA, ponovo i ponovo i ponovo i ponovo- ♥
A quote for the reason of 5 stars:"A day without laughter is a day wasted."- Charlie Chaplin
I started reading Calving and Hobbes comics because I saw my third grade crush reading them.
I guess I should thank him, because once I started reading these comics, I didn't want to stop.
And while I didn't read the "normal" books that kids my age read, I think I had a great childhood reading these comics.
Of course, as a kid, I didn't realize what those were.I can easily say that Calvin and Hobbes comics were what I always went back to reading when I was between books throughout elementary and middle school.
Another review I just saw (almost totally unrelated ...
oh well) reminded me I should give this five stars.
One of my greatest disgusts with generally-sad newspaper comics is that Calvin and Hobbes are not there.
(Apologies.) Reminds me of myself, not too far beyond his age.
If he'd owned Barbie dolls, he would totally have played out his unconscious fascination with violence and its emotional ramifications through WWIII pseudo-Holocaust Barbie games.
One of my current book-related sorrows is that I left my copy of this collection at home when I came to university.
This is coming back with me next time I travel home, though.
The dynamic yet meddlesome duo of the mischievous Calvin & the manipulative Hobbes.
Calvin & Hobbes is a great, classic cartoon about a little boy, named Calvin, who goes on many wacky expeditions with his pet tiger, Hobbes.
Everybody else sees Hobbes as a mere stuffed animal, but not Calvin.
He sees Hobbes as a real tiger & a snarky one at that.
Can Calvin learn to stay out of trouble?
This lovable yet extreme cartoon really highlights the joys & pleasures of the average suburban life as well as brings out the inner child of its readers.
Went back to book from my childhood recently and found it as enjoyable as I did those many years ago (perhaps even more so). There was poignancy in Calvin & Hobbes I never even noticed when I was a kid. Lovely, funny, fantastic stuff.
4.5 stars. Second only to Gary Larson's "The Far Side" as my favorite cartoon series of all time. Always clever, always funny and always leaves you in a better mood. I must have for any library.
How exactly I missed Calvin and Hobbes I'm honestly not sure, but after seeing the excellent comics documentary Stripped, I remedied that more or less immediately.
Unlike Dennis the Menace, a comic strip which bears a superficial likeness in that both boys are unapologetic troublemakers, this comic shows how imaginative and inquisitive the otherwise unruly boy can be, while simultaneously showing how trying being a parent can be, without villainizing or marginalizing any characters.
A great example of this is Calvin's babysitter.
His beautiful drawings bring life and character to the precocious, self-aware Calvin and to his best friend in the whole world, his Tiger and protector, Hobbes.
Calvin and Hobbes is a prime example of how comic strips have a word to say and how they should not be disconsidered as being true forms of literature.
Calvin and Hobbes has a certain power and versatility and I think no other medium would be fitted for the two friends.
May not be great literature, but Bill Watterson sees something which most of us don't. My life has been diminished by not having the joy of opening the daily paper to some new insight to ourselves through his eyes.
Calvin and Hobbes is my favorite comic
I’m a product of the eighties so maybe Bill Watterson and his creation are just part of my upbringing and I can’t help loving it.But I don’t think anybody can deny the sheer genius of this comic strip, or the laughs and joy it has brought and will continue to bring to millions of people.
I’ve had the absolute pleasure of reading “The Essential Calvin and Hobbes” to my seven year old daughter, so this review is partly my take on it as well as hers.And at the end of this review I will list all the volumes you need to buy to collect the entire series in trade paperback.
Still, I couldn't help but feel a sense of longing for the years of youth now gone by as I read this book.
The world isn't presented here as a land of gumdrops and rainbows, quite the opposite actually, but it is presented as a place that can be happily lived in so long as you've got a good friend by your side.Ah, to be a kid again.
It’s difficult for an 8 or 9 year old to explain the intricacies of the Gobot-Greek alliance or the splendor of Castle Grayskull as the center of Imperial Rome after the fall of He-Man. But this was the key moment.
I had lost him to the pot roast.I assume every kid has a similar moment.
When the realization hits that the imaginative worlds in your head may not be as interesting to everyone else.
But it’s a lonely moment.
To feel alone in that so vivid world.A few years later, I discovered Calvin and Hobbes.
Oh the endless bounties of insight that Calvin and Hobbes offers.
Calvin and Hobbes resonates so profoundly with its readers due to its near perfect representation of the joys of adventure and discovery.
While some reviewers may be tempted to dismiss the notion of analyzing Watterson's work for fear of destroying the innocence and whimsy of the strip, I find analysis quite painless, with as little or as many rules as Calvinball.
My analysis is as follows: Calvin and Hobbes is GOOD.
As Mrs. Messmer mentioned about the Authoritative Calvin & Hobbes book, there were a LOT of hard-core vocabulary words that I hardly knew.
Calvin is a whiny, uncooperative 6-year-old kid who thinks the whole world revolves around him, and the stunts he pulls off makes me laugh.
Basically, I'm talking about all the Calvin & Hobbes books, all the way up to the last comic collection, It's a Magical World.
The kid has a lot of imagination too, and he often uses them as a metaphor in real life, but he thinks that it really happened.
We all know that the world is 'unfair', but Calvin and Hobbes makes it more evident than anyone else.
As social critiques they may be rated at par with anybody else.
It becomes more interesting when Hobbes picks up a fight with Calvin and heaps his cynicism on the most cynic of all.
They collaborate, engage in friendly banter and betray each other only to rip apart the entire social fabric in the process.
His suppressed 'creativity' and 'imagination' often take wings and Hobbes is too happy to accompany him only to revert to his 'angelic' self when they are caught by Calvin's parents or Susie.
This is great, of course!I have 2 thoughts: 1. My oldest son has 3 young sons of his own. Of course he knows and loves Calvin and Hobbes. My thought is that Calvin and Hobbes could be rather encouraging to him because he may never quite experience the parenting challenges that Calvin's dad faces on a daily basis! 2. Have we seen the end of this sort of comic anthology in print? With the decline of print newspapers and the increase in web comics, I'm sad to say that that is likely the case.
Best. Comic Strip. Ever.I LOVE Calvin and Hobbes. Clever humor. Wonder facial expressions.My kids are now hooked as well. They didn't understand much of the humor at first, but the photos kept them intrigued. My youngest doesn't "enjoy" reading, but will beg to have one of these comic collections at bedtime.The vocabulary has challenged them. The humor and philosophical views have educated them or made them think... while still managing to make them giggle.
After I came out of a coma from surgery when I was a child, the first thing that I remember is my sister bringing me this book. This memory far surpassed any further memory that I had about the coma and time following it. This is a great book for me because of this, and because Bill Watterson is a genius.
Sometimes you just need to step away from "big things" and try to enjoy the small little things that life sometimes offers. It feels great to be a kid again, seeing things in a different lens in very refreshing. Definitely recommended.
fantastico, inimitabile, unico
I love Calvin and Hobbes. The brilliance of the animation and how as I'm reading I swing between who I most relate to: Calvin, Hobbes, Mom, Dad, Suzy....
