https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107300.Trustee_from_the_Toolroom
He has to step way beyond his comfort zone and in doing so discovers his own inner strengths.
Even better, it becomes a bit of a fairy story as he discovers he has friends he never knew about who step in and make his life better.I have always enjoyed Nevil Shute's writing.
It is not a short book and it has plenty of pages of technical detail but even that, written by this author, is very readable.So nice to read a book with no over the top drama, no hysterics or anguish, just sensible, ordinary people making the best of their lives - with a little bit of special good luck as their reward.
It is light, but cute and fun and will make you smile.
On the surface it is about a Mr. Ordinary, an unpretentious little guy, but he is honest and hardworking.
The book is filled with detailed descriptions of machines and mechanical gadgets - for airplanes, for boats, for lumber mills.
Parts of machines - coil winders and plate fittings and gear boxes and hydraulic jacks and roller chains and sprockets and lathes and heat transfer gizmos and….
Still this is all kind of appropriate because it makes you smile even more.
The book andthe narration will make you smile.
Do you need to smile?
A personal note: Before reading this book, my only exposure to the works of Nevil Shute had been watching the delightful movie A Town Like Alice.
Shute is quick to point out that there are many ways to overcome obstacles, and the simple act of doing your job professionally, competently and courteously can have long reaching effects on other people and help in a time of need.
Keith Stewart is the main character - a sensible average British citizen who has never gone far in life in either distance or career.
A very complicated thing needs to happen (In this case, a mild-mannered engineer who has never left England needs to get to a tiny island near Tahiti) and the book is about how people find creative solutions to get it done.
For some reason, I am completely fascinated by this kind of story.
Maybe it's all the years I spent playing "initiative games" at camp?This is not the best book ever written.
are outdated as you might expect for a book written in 1960.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
But On The Beach, Shute's bestseller from 1957, had made a big impression on me and gave me hope.The trustee of the title is Keith Stewart, one of those unprepossessing fellows from postwar England who bumbles along, doesn't expect much, but is an honest and honorable sort.
Keith is also named trustee for the little girl's inheritance which turns out to include a valuable stash of diamonds lost on a corral island near Hawaii.Soon enough this man who has never left England and rarely ventures from his hometown, has an adventure by air and sea the likes of which he had never imagined.

My very favorite Nevil Shute novel.
A seemingly simple man who writes articles about scale models must go on a quest.
To say it simply, he must retrieve valuable gems from a ship-wrecked boat to support his niece.
There are many adventures on the way to Polynesia (I think) andhe discovers that his life is not so small, after all.
It's a quiet novel, no villains, but such a read.
I have been looking for my own copy for years.
Pick one up for me if you ever see one.Update...just got the Kindle copy.
I enjoyed it all the more.
Go...interlibrary loan it, read it.
You'll enjoy this simple tale.
That's more than a fifth of the way round the world.' He checked the figures in in wonder."(The French freighter I rode from Sydney to Panama with stops in the New Hebrides, to load copra, Tahiti, and the Marquesas, served horrible red wine, and didn't feed the dozen of us well, but there was a tiny steel swimming pool bolted to the forward deck.
a man not speaking English but exceptional in his chess, usually having his little board and pieces set on the tiny deck table.)
I loved this book! There is nothing special about it, but it tells the story of very ordinary people rising to the occasion and doing what needs to be done. What that shows about their characters, plus the detailed information about mechanical engineering and sailing and logging and international politics made it un-put-downable for me. I can't wait to read it all over again!
(Actually that boat crash was a pretty good section and was a bit of a diversion from the rest of the book's tone.)But what I found interesting was that multiple times Shute talks about Stewart in terms of being satisfied by a simpler life without money.
Since the action of the book is driven by his quest for a treasure that sunk with his sister's boat I wonder if this is emphasized to show that he was doing it for his niece and not out of greed or if Shute is really trying to promote a minimalist lifestyle.
His stories and characters are just wonderful.
Very easy reading and you don't want the story to end.
His sister and brother-in-law have him hide a jewel box aboard their sailboat just before they emigrate to Vancouver.
But when the ship goes down in the South Pacific with them aboard, Keith must not only raise their young daughter, but must seek to retrieve the jewel box from the wreck.He has never been outside of England before so faces many difficulties but people all along his path are quite willing to help him and he helps them also.
I was lucky enough to stumble across a box containing all 24 of Nevil Shute's novels in paperback. After putting them all in copyright date order, I have been able to read my way through most of his books while "watching" him progress as a writer. Such fun!
Recommended to me by my Dad (himself with a background in engineering) as one of Shute's best.While reading this tale of quiet model engineer Keith Stewart's journey to previously unimagined parts of the globe in an attempt to recover his nieces birthright, I couldn't help feeling a little saddened throughout.
Not due to the strength of the writing (which is competent but never sets out to dazzle) but due to the combination of specialist technical detail and humanity.Nevil Shute was an aeronautical engineer first and a writer second, but you’ll never feel like either facet is overtly stressed at any point in this book.
TRUSTEE FROM THE TOOLROOM. (1960). Nevil Shute. ****. Nevil Shute (1899-1960) was an immensely popular writer in his day. His books include, “On The Beach,” and “A Town Like Alice.” He wrote a total of twenty-four novels and an autobiogrphy. Not all his novels were hits, but he had more than his share. He was of British/Australian extraction, but set his stories around the world. He was trained, early on, as an aeronautical engineer, and much of his engineering background sneaks into his stories
Nevil Shute (1899-1960) was an immensely popular writer in his day.
In this novel, we meet Keith Stewart and his wife.
They live in a small backwater near London, where Keith does his work at home in his tool shop in their basement.
They are there to ask Keith and his wife to look out for their ten-year old daughter, Janice, and to agree to take charge of her should anything happen to them on their trip.
Keith, when he learns of this, decides he has to go and rescue Janice’s inheritance – and to place a gravestone on their graves.
What a pleasant surprise this novel was! Beginning to read without expectations or even a kind of unpleasant memory of   helped me appreciate this. Don't let the "popular mechanics" aspect deter you from enjoying this wonderful story.
Or at least could be.Like most authors, Shute was at his best writing about what he knew, and what he knew more about than anything else were engineering (his career) and sailing (his passion).
Chapter 2, about the yacht caught in a tropical storm (the episode which kick-starts the story proper) is utterly gripping - an inspired piece of writing - and would certainly make it into any anthology of sea stories edited by me.Despite the leisurely pace, I cracked through this in a single weekend (a lot faster than I usually read) and enjoyed it immensely.
In this story, people are happy and kind and reliable even though this is written at a time when the public had been through both World Wars, the Great Depression, and post-war rationing.
I've seen "do what you love, the money will follow" happen to people so I don't think this story is crazy.
In fact, a less exaggerated version of this is what happens systematically when society more or less functions properly instead of hyper-rewarding cheaters.
Accessory rant:Book critics today seem to give prizes for depressing dross where everyone is whiney or evil and the "sentences are beautiful." This is all part of the surface over substance cultural disease.
3.5 stars. Shute's novels have become a kind of literary comfort food for me. There's something dependable and relaxing about his quiet, solid style and down-to-earth characters, and even the multitude of technical and mechanical details usually found in his stories.
As soon as I started reading it, I fell comfortably into the fantastic world that he created for my reading enjoyment.Like many of Shute's stories, it focuses on a normal, unassuming man (or woman) who finds him/ herself involved in a situation so far out of his comfort zone that you find yourself following him, holding your breath to see how it will resolve.
The magazine is shipped to people around the world who try to create Keith's designs and correspond with him.
So that's the basic story, except that as well, they have designated Keith and Katie as trustees to their daughter.
Well sex, explosions, death, and political intrigue certainly do NOT ensue but you do get a great story of a simple man choosing to step far outside of his comfort zone in order to help the ones he loves.
My father is a similar sort of man, the type that can still quote and apply foundational math and scientific theorems that most of us forgot 2 seconds after the final exam, who like nothing better than to sit quietly and work on a model or read a book, and eat a sandwich at home.
What an interesting read exploring contrasting lifestyles and ways of working/thinking and looking at other people's lives. I loved getting to know the protagonist and the way he moves through life tackling problems CONSTRUCTIVELY is fascinating even if it feels slightly nostalgic! I loved the author's admiration for engineering and people who appreciate engineers!
Jo and John lead far more flamboyant, exciting lives, and having decided one day to migrate to Canada, ask Keith and Katie to look after their 10-year old daughter Janice for the few months she will be in Britain while her parents sail in their little yacht all the way to Vancouver.
Firstly, John and Jo want Keith to be the trustee for Janice should anything happen to her parents.
Some digging into documents reveals that the Dermotts had converted the bulk of their fortune into diamonds; Keith concludes that these were in the box he helped hide, and which should still be there in the wreck.
But it turns out that strategically placed people all around the world happen to read and enjoy his articles, and make their own model engines to his design.
There actually was such a magazine published in England and the character is modeled after a real man who wrote for that journal.
Keith goes along in that way and manages through difficulties to make it to the island.
You can count on him completely in that regard.Read today the sexism and racism pops out, showing us how much things have changed for the better since the time when this was written.
Shute was quite progressive for his time, I think.
This is a really simple and sweet clever story about a man who’s willing to go to great lengths to keep his word- and what’s not to like about that.
The story of Keith Stewart describes the rare instance of a man finding true peace and contentment in his life, career, and relationships.
When Keith finds himself the new guardian of his young niece and the trustee to her would be inheritance, he makes it his life’s purpose to secure a fine future for his new charge, despite not having the means to do so (here’s where I get angry).
Though it was more like two or three distinct books about the same character.This one was a better, more cohesive story probably; but it was so filled with arcana (how to make a 1:20 scale generator with reduction gears, how to tack a jib and heave-to) that entire pages at a time would be "blah blah blah" for me.
Come to think of it the flying part didn't bother me so much, but if I hadn't been the copilot on so many of my father's flights that might have been "blah blah blah" as well.But the main character Keith Stewart is immediately and completely likeable, and a lot of the other characters are wonderfully drawn and feel like friends, too.
He makes a small sum of money writing about these engineering projects for a magazine called the Miniature Mechanic.
This is a fairly simple and straightforward adventure/travel story in which the difficulties of money and distance put Keith into a position of stepping out of his comfortable home and into the big world.
One of the wonderful things about this story is how unaware Keith was of his affect in the world.
As a small man making small machines in his basement and writing about it, he never knew how far his articles traveled or the impact they had on his readers.
Keith Stewart and his wife Katie take custody of his niece Janice while her parents are on a sailing trip.
Janice's parents have their life savings - and Janice's inheritance - on the yacht with them.
When they yacht crashes on a reef and the parents are killed, Keith and Katie have a decision to make.
Keith sets out from London to Hawaii, hoping to find a way from there to Tahiti to attempt to recover the inheritance without having any idea how he'd travel back to London.
But can he successfully make the trip?
This is one of my favorites of all time.
Last time I checked it was out of print and the used book sellers were all in the UK, but I keep watching to find an affordable copy.
Trustee was a choice of my book club a couple of years ago, and after having read "A Town Like Alice", also by Shute, we looked forward to reading it.
While it has plenty of action, it is an uplifting book about a gentle man with strong moral values.
1/25/09 Update: My awesome daughter found a new paperback copy and gave it to me for Christmas.
This was the first Nevil Shute book that I ever read, way back in the 50's; and now, having re-read it again this year I'm still convinced that it's as good as anything he ever wrote, right up there with "A Town like Alice". It's an immensely human story of dedication, loyalty and the ingenuity of one very unassuming man to set things right. A wonderful read!
