https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/86238.The_Enchanted_Forest_Chronicles
(Here, for instance, Cimorene and her cohorts deal with dastardly wizards simply by melting them into goo with soap and water, like the Wicked Witch of the West in The Wizard of Oz --but they always eventually regenerate.) Her work is informed by an equalitarian feminism, in the best sense of the word, which is not at all anti-male.
Readers who like this series should explore her other work; I can personally recommend The Book of Enchantments and Caught in Crystal.
Only just recently, it has come to my attention that the final book in this series was actually written FIRST.
THIS BLEW MY MIND.
The final book ties everything together so very neatly...Goodness gracious my perception of the world is crumbling around my widdle ears.
OK so, these books are all really good aside from the whole my not being aware of the chronology of the publication and whatnot.
They're all dragony and delicious.
Also, there are some versions of these books that are published with hideous cartoony covers.
I can't stand books with ugly covers.
In the first book, the main character gets fed up with her life as a princess.
When she tries to learn to fence, she's told it's unladylike, so she has to stop.
When she tries to coook, she's told it's unladylike, so she has to stop.
So, we begin the story with the main character running away to find a dragon to live with.
She does find one, and she spends much of the book making cherries jubilee for said dragon and trying to explain to princes who come to rescue her that no, in fact, she does NOT want to be rescued.
Many other characters come into the series in the later books.
I recently finished reading these books with my ten year old daughter.
I read them years ago, so I didn't remember much plot, just that they are fun fantasy.
And they are--light and witty, funny, creative, and strong female characters.
I didn't like the last book as well.
It didn't seem as well written and I missed Cimorene as a main character.
It was fun to enjoy the books together.
We no longer have much of an oral tradition in our society, so it's easy to forget the relish of books read aloud.
(Unless, of course, you like recorded books!
This is a series for people who like fantasy with a dash of humor and a strong female heroine who is perfectly willing to tell the slightly stupid handsome prince he can kindly throw himself off a cliff. Add some dragons, a few wicked wizard, one very forward thinking witch, a floating blue donkey with a 6-foot wing span, and an entire kindgom made of magical threads and you might begin to understand the stories. Wrede has a way of pulling in a few old fairy tale favorites while forging a story completely unlike anything else. Worth the read!
I never read Harry Potter or the Lord of the Rings, or the Chronicles of Narnia, I read The Enchanted Forest Chronicles. And to this day I haven't been able to figure out why these adventure stories aren't films already. Very fun.
So I was waiting for my latest book club's choice to arrive in the mail, and knowing that it was a serious choice this month, I decided to relive some young adult books that used to be great favorites of mine.
Perfect time to read them.
The first one I've read more than the rest, and do like a lot.
It's told from the point of view of Mendanbar, the King of the Enchanted Forest, who hangs out with Cimorene to save the dragon Kazul.
It jumps far forward in time and the main character is Cimorene's teenage son.
Okay, time for a Nostalgia Review!Recently somewhere on the depths of the internet I came across a list of "badass women of fantasy" or something like that, and Cimorene from this series was on there.
A funny thing about the first book is that Cimorene runs away to escape from oppressive female stereotypes, but she ends up spending all her time cooking and cleaning for a dragon.
In this book, the rules of magic are fleshed out much more, and Mendanbar in particular gets a very interesting way of doing things.
I loved these books in grade school and I love them still.
With their new friends, they collaborate to rescue Kazul—now the King of the Dragons—from the wizards who have captured her.Calling on DragonsMorwen discovers that the wizards have stolen Mendanbar's sword, which keeps them from stealing the Enchanted Forest's magic, and works with Cimorene to retrieve it.Talking to DragonsDaystar, Cimorene and Mendanbar's son, is sent off into the forest with his father's sword and no knowledge of his heritage.
Written and published first, and then revised later to better fit with the prequel books.
I rediscovered the first volume, Dealing with Dragons, which I really enjoyed when I was a kid, and after a short online search, found out it was part of a series and ordered the whole box off amazon.After having read through the latter three books in one week now, I am ready to give my verdict.
(I would have liked the third volume better if I hadn't been so annoyed with Killer.) The fourth book was a little disappointing.
I don't usually like first-person narrators, and the prose felt a little flat same as the characters.
I added this box to my list, to have a mark of the whole set. But I was thinking, just recently, that it is time to reread the whole thing.I think the girls have all of them on their shelves, but I'd better check.
i loved these books!!!!! you don't have to read the first one to understand the second or third or fourth one. they are hilarious books with a lot of magic in them. they aren't that serious, but that is what makes them fun to read!!!!!
This series is great. I've read it a few times even as an adult. :)
These are fun to read. I really like the central character in the first book. She's the princess who doesn't want to get married. LOVE that! This is a nice modern fairy tale series.
I read these books in junior high and I remember really loving them. I think they really opened me up to my love for fantasy novels.
Morwen is part of a party who heads out on an expedition to recover an extremely important artifact stolen from the Enchanted Forest by the series' recurring villains, the Society of Wizards.Talking to Dragons (1985) covers the coming-of-age of Daystar, Cimorene and Mendanbar's teenage son, as he's unceremoniously sent out into the Enchanted Forest with a magic sword to Seek His Destiny.I'm afraid that it is impossible for me to be objective about these books.
The Chronicles remain, as I remember them, a gently humorous set of adventures about some very fun and interesting characters.
Exactly what I was looking for in a book right now.
These four books were simple, yet joyful.
I can't believe I didn't discover these when I was younger, I know my teenage self would have read them over and over.
The portrayal of the quirks and egos of cats is perhaps one of my favorites I have ever read, and as a worshiper of the feline species, that is saying something.
I always love a book with a strong feline presence, and each of the Enchanted Forest Chronicles filled that need for me.
I just love this series.
Patricia has such an imaginative way of giving shape to magic.
I also love how each book in the four-part series is written from the perspective of a different person.
I have series that I'm working on where I might actually try the same approach...Patricia's other books on magic (Mairelon the Magician and The Magician's Ward, respectively) have an even different shape to its magic.
The dialogue works wonderfully, and you even get a few subtle surprises when you read the entire series in one go.
And that's saying something for an engaging fantasy series!
Who doesn't like sassy dragons and witty princess heroine?The Enchanted Forest Chronicles are an older 4 book series by Patricia C.
Wrede (published in the early 2000s), but don't let that stop you from picking them up in your local bookstore.
Wrede's tale focuses on a princess named Cimorene who bargains her way into the "clutches" of a dragon named Kazul--mayhem ensues as the smart and witty Cimorene deals with princes who come to "save" her from her exciting new life with Kazul and the dragons.
Feminist, funny, and entertaining for all ages, I find myself returning to this series again and again for its lighthearted fun and dragon shenanigans.
When the King of the dragons is killed, the wizards join forces with an overly-ambitious dragon to cheat in the dragon trials that determine the new king; and Cimorene and her friends must try to stop them.Searching for DragonsThis book introduces Mendenbar, the King of the Enchanted Forest.
When Kazul disappears, Cimorene goes in search of her, with Mendenbar's and Morwen's help.
Daystar and Shiara must enter the castle to find the imprisoned king and rescue him while the dragons fight the wizards outside.
This book is the kind of book I wish I could go back and hand to my nine-year-old self so she could grow up loving it.
It has been instantly added to my list of all time favorite books because it is FANTASTIC!
The characters are extremely likable and practical and just awesome.
It makes you root for everyone except the bad guys and you always want them to fail.
I also love how a lot of the worldbuilding is based on classic fairytale tropes and brief descriptions.
Cimorene is the princess we all need in our lives and everything about this story is THE BEST.
LOVE this book
Great series featuring an independent and fun heroine, that I first read when I was 12. An easy re-read now, but still fun and brought back memories- nice to know it's still out there as a book featuring a female heroine who will accept help from others but doesn't need rescuing- the other characters are all unique and funny, too.
War ganz nett als Sommerlektüre und ist natürlich sehr klar eingeteilt in Gut und Böse. Man merkt einfach, dass das letzte Buch zuerst geschrieben wurde, weil es im Vergleich zu den anderen einfach echt ein anderes Niveau hat. Das fängt bei der Ich-Perspektive an und hört bei der relativ langweiligen Story auf.
These books made my childhood. I loved them! And there is no doubt that they had an influence on me, especially by giving me a strong female role model. I didn't want to be a princess - I wanted to be a princess that didn't want to be a princess, and I wanted to go off on amazing adventures! I highly recommend them to middle grade readers. And older ones too! I should reread these!
25 years later and it's still one of my favoritesI first read Dealing with Dragons when I was in Grade 4. I remember it well. I've continued to reread the series every few years through my life and, even at 34 years old, I still love it! It's timeless. Ageless. Just as quality writing should be.
I found my old friendI originally read Dealing With Dragons when I was in 4th or 5th grade, and it has always been one of my favorites. When I found out that not only was it part of a series, but that it was available as a boxed set, I had to read it immediately. This set will always hold a special place in my heart, and I look forward to reading it again many times.
I wish the fourth book's protagonist had been a girl instead of a boy. It would have made the whole thing just a fraction more enjoyable. Overall I appreciated the stories and the spunky female characters within them.
Childhood favorite still awesome to read now that I'm an adultThat was fantastic. I'm so glad I re-read them. All four books, just wonderful. Everyone should give it a chance.
I had some doubts when I read that this was young adult fiction, but I really loved it. It was charming and clever with well-designed characters and plots. I loved the connections to fairy tales throughout.
I read "Dealing with Dragons" years ago, and didn't realize it was a series.I enjoyed this series so much that as soon as I had finished reading it from the library I bought the books to read to my kids.
