https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/197365.The_Crucified_God
Amazing, simply amazing.
This may go down as one of my all-time favorite books.
I highly recommend this for pastors, teachers and anyone interested in theology.
Moltmann demonstrates the absolute centrality of the cross of Christ and its meaning for Christian faith.
Importantly, he does this with a robust doctrine of the Trinity; on the cross the Son experienced Fatherlessness (in the cry "my God, why have you forsaken me") and the Father experienced Sonlessness.
Yet through this break in the relational God, humanity is now welcomed in.
And it changes everything.
Overall, a dense and difficult, but great and rewarding read.
To the extent that I can understand him, Jurgen Moltmann's  Crucified God  tops the list of explorations of Christian Theology.Developing on themes that he introduced in  Theology of Hope , Moltmann now turns his attention to the crucifixion of Jesus and its theological, psychological, and political implications.
He sees in theology a complex matrix that helps not only the church, but the entire world.Positively, the aspect of Moltmann's thought that I appreciated was his understanding of the suffering of God and of Christ.
The second in Moltmann's trilogy, spanning forty-five years: commencing with "Theology of Hope" and ending with the recently-published "Ethics of Hope".
It is the love of the Crucified God.We wanted a God like Zeus, a God who comes with rolling thunder, a God who crushes the wicked under His heel, a God who comes in power, in domination, whose force and authority are omnipotent.
But then comes Jesus, weak and lowly at heart, sorrowful unto death, non-violent, and poor in spirit.
He is the Crucified God.Not vengeance, not retribution, but forgiveness, for the oppressed, for the oppressor.
Jesus comes and reveals a new righteousness, a righteousness that breaks the cycles of vengeance and hate, a righteousness that liberates the captives and forgives the sinful.
Is it possible for a 40 year old book to be a breath of fresh air?
Because this was such a breath of fresh air for me.Moltmann articulates a theology of the cross that simultaneously takes orthodoxy and the tradition seriously while breaking new ground.
Of utmost concern for Moltmann is the cross as that which liberates humanity from evil and oppression and enables us to stand in solidarity with the outcast and downtrodden.
Such a simple, beautiful idea.My main question is whether the cross saves us from some ontological reality or if it is primarily liberation from evil circumstances.
The best christology of the twentieth century.
This book had the most impact on me, personally and theologically, of all the books I read in my courses in grad school. I'm reading it again to know it better. Incisive and eloquent.
The single best understanding of the crucifixion -- in my opinion.
The premise of the book lies heavily on a deeper look at just who and what the crucified Christ is--and what that means for society, churches, and theology today.
"Humiliation to the point of death on the cross corresponds to God's nature in the contradiction of the abandonment.
The nucleus of everything that Christian theology says about 'God' is to be found in this Christ event.
The Christ event on the cross is a God event.
And conversely, the God event takes place on the cross of the risen Christ.
Yet only the crucified Christ can bring the freedom which changes the world because it is no longer afraid of death.
For ultimately, in a civilization which is constructed on the principle of achievement and enjoyment, and therefore makes pain and death a private matter, excluded from its public life, so that in the final issue the world must no longer be experienced as offering resistance, there is nothing so unpopular as for the crucified God to be made a present reality through faith.
We are congolmerates, therefore Moltmann understand that in order to be free to be human in one aspect of our life as an individual and as a society, we must bring freedom into every aspect.I loved this book, and while it was very dense and there were some points where Moltmann quotes untranslated Latin, which went completely over my head, I do think that this is a very improtant work and a must-read for anyone interested in rethinking the cross in light of a world that does not support the assumption of an omnipotent, non-suffering God.
What I liked about his claim is that it provides an ontological base for the suffering of God in love and an an explanation for the suffering in the world.This claim must be seen in the perspective of an eschatological view, that is, a reading from the end to the beginning.
While dense it is eloquent and passionate and engaging.It was a more thoroughly comprehensive and systematic work than I expected -- the penultimate chapter on Freud and the final chapter on how the church should be engaged politically.I found myself agreeing throughout, rather than being persuaded, as this is one of those books that was so influential that it re-shaped subsequent theology.
So, despite not having read it before, I already live and work within the world it shaped.Despite wanting to read it for some time, I was finally compelled to as our adult education team wants me to teach a class on atonement later this year.
This book forces readers to re-consider why a 'theology of the cross' is at the heart of Christian worship and thought. Moltmann looks at the Crucified God from many different angles: the historical, the eschatological, the Trinitarian, the psychological, and the political and he does not shy away from confronting the reader and provoking her engagement. This is not an easy book to read but with some basic theological understanding and a commitment by the reader to follow Moltmann's arguments, the rewards are rich.
After three years, I've finally finished this book. I've restarted it three or four times. The Crucified God is an amazing theological statement about the work of the cross of Jesus Christ and is a must read for serious theologians. The only critique I have is the occasional tendency of Moltmann to be repetitive , which is only frustrating due to the depth of the text. Moltmann is an amazing theologian and I am very glad I read what some have called his greatest work in, "The Crucified God."
Changed me. Love his books and his story. I read this book for a Soteriology course. Maybe the group discussion helped. As my professor said, just read the 6th chapter and save yourself some time. Don't hate on me if it was the 5th chapter!
Filled with wonderful theological insights but much of the book is outdated (this is obviously not the author's fault). It is also an unnecessarily dry read, as theology -- especially the theology of the cross -- can read much differently.
This book is one of the reasons I'm still a Christian. At a time when I was heading towards protest atheism, refusing to believe in a god in the face of the world's suffering, Moltmann gave me a theodicy I could accept. A wonderful book!
Moltmann’s central idea, that of a suffering God on the cross of Christ, is astonishing and inherently powerful and liberating.
Moltmann uses a plethora of methodologies, some which become convoluted, to explain how God could suffer, and why this thought and theology is not only philosophically, psychologically, biblically, and eschatologically viable, but necessary.
The crucified Christ does away with all idols and superfluous religions to reveal the true, suffering, all-loving, vulnerable and liberating Trinity.
If anything, it is more "constructive." So, Moltmann constructs "on the way," and -- in his case -- on the way from POW camps.
Moltmann's POW experience cannot be overstated in importance and inception for his theology.
He found God in the camps, or rather God found him in his own suffering.
Moltmann is, in a word, prolific; he is the most productive liberation theology.
People of all stripes would do well to read him, particularly theologians who disagree with him.
Read him to, at the very least, feel his suffused compassion for the poor, vulnerable, disenfranchised, and oppressed.
Very good book which makes you stop and think about many things. Overall I agree with the author. A few minor disagreements but I say Major on the Majors and minor on the minors.
At least as it pertains to soteriology, Moltmann's theology of the crucifixion and subsequent resurrection of Jesus as a Trinitarian event was beautiful to behold.
For Moltmann (and I hope I'm understanding him correctly), the death and resurrection of Christ is the ultimate expression of who God is.
This is what we are to identify ourselves with - a suffering, outcast God. I'll need to mull a lot of things over before coming to any final stance on The Crucified God, but for now it is one of the loveliest, most shocking books of theology I've ever read.
By focusing my thought away from personal salvation to broader cosmic realities, Moltmann has made soteriology and the theology of the cross liberating and new again.
What this book is not is a theological work which remains safely encased in its world of special terms and concepts.
Just as Moltmann's student Miroslav Volf called for "theological ideas with legs," The Crucified God seeks to end on a high note by discussing the potential but realistic applications of the "theologia crucis" to present day and future situations.
Great balance of historical criticism, philosophical background, scriptural breakdown, and an impactful prospective light at the end which lacks the feel of a "story-book" utopia...and this leaves its rightful claim to a future reality intact.
Moltemann suggests, or rather insists, that it is not Christianity if it does not point to the suffering of God at the crucifixion as God's primary way of relating to humanity and, therefore, as the primary way of how humanity ought to relate to itself - not suffering as a virtue, but compassion and empathy as the bases of human existence.
When progressive Christianity does not do this, it simply becomes a sometimes cynical, sometimes arrogant, liberal fundamentalism that is different in word but not in deed from its conservative cousin.
'The Crucified God' is Moltmann's masterpiece, despite the fact that he has written many more since then.
He is obviously a passionate theologian engaging a real problem, namely, how to make Christian theology and the Christian God relevant in a world that produces Auschwitz.
He attempts to produce a Trinitarian theology that is rooted in the cross and specifically Jesus' cry of agony at his death.
Whether he intended it, because of this book Moltmann has become the patron saint of all "open" theologies and "process" theologies which in my opinion render God too human and too impotent.
In The Crucified God, Moltmann applies his eschatological hermeneutic to Christology, providing a refreshing prolegomena to soteriology.
The entire gist of this book can be summarized as a lengthy contemplation on Jesus’ death cry, “My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?” For Moltmann, in the cross of Christ, God encountered and fully experienced death.
Regardless, it contains quite a refreshing perspective on the meaning of the cross for Christian theology today.
In fact I read all three of Moltmann's major works - Theology of Hope, Crucified God and The Church in the Power of the Spirit.
I objected that the college should not attempt to be the church, but rather was an institution of the church.
Part of what I find in Moltmann is that the church and the Christian must be free of the bourgeois assumptions of the "cross of roses" - the cross bereft of scandal.
But the college of the church is precisely an instrument of "bourgeois" civilizing power.
Christian theology frequently reflects on the meaning of Christ's crucifixion for humanity.
However, Moltmann here asks what the crucifixion of Jesus means for God himself.
Just as "Theology of Hope" interpreted theology through the lens of Christ's resurrection, so this following volume interprets theology through Christ's death.
More accurately, as Moltmann himself points out, "Theology of Hope" concerns the resurrection of the crucified Christ while "Crucified God" has to do with the crucifixion of the risen Christ.
In this way, he avoids too much of a distinction or separation of the Jesus of history from the Christ of faith.
I have heard much of Moltmann in the theology circles I frequent online, of his influence in postmodern theology as well as liberation theology, and I can assure you he lives up to the hype.
His emphasis on the full humanity of Jesus, his integration of different disciplines, from Jewish thought to historical Jesus study to even dialectical method to discuss the meaning of the cross, and his focus on God'd preferential option for the poor add up to an incredibly compelling thesis that there is no greater need than to center one's theology on the crucified Christ and to know exactly what you are getting into when you do.
I plan to return to this classic work in the future.

