https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20263040-personal
I love Jack Reacher.
I pour a cup of coffee and I think of Reacher.
I buy a new toothbrush and I think of Reacher.....But I didn't care for this book at all.
Actually my least favourite book of Reacher.
I'm the type of person that buys books on pre-order.
This book was full of politics.
Reacher felt like a puppet in this novel.
I wouldn't have even finished it if it were not a Reacher novel.
That makes it a very sad day in the life of a long time Reacher fan....Will I wait for the next book?
Damn right.
Oh, yeah, I was talking about seeing England and France, which we get to do in this novel, and that's what makes it fun to read.
I don't generally write much in the way of reviews for books in the suspense/thriller category because I'm afraid that one little thing I say might spoil it for some eager reader.
What I will say is that this book was one heck of a lot of fun to read.
Seeing how Lee Child is so smart and does his research so well, I was surprised to find that he didn't do his homework on pharmaceuticals for this novel.
I LOVE Jack Reacher and have read ALL Lee Child's Reacher books but this one (and the one before, I have found disappointing to say the least in fact I have closed the latest, after giving it a good chance, and will not finish it.
The "edge" seems to have gone from the books with lots of wandering around, pointless dialogue and side tracks that take the stories no-where.
I'd love to stay addicted but am finding it hard.
I was desperate for Jack to find Susan (we waited two books was it, to get there) and then was there an explosion upon meeting?
I'd love to love Jack again - please!!
I see there is a lot of debate between Lee Child fans about whether this is a good book or not. I liked it four stars worth! Okay it was a bit different especially as the action takes place in Europe instead of America. I actually found that a refreshing change. And it does get a bit wordy in parts but makes up for it with some great action and an intriguing game of double guessing who the real baddy is. I really enjoyed it.

(Cannabis accusation according to his own claim in an interview with the Daily Mail: “In 2013, Grant told the Daily Mail that he writes while high on marijuana, and that he has smoked cannabis five nights a week for 44 years.” per Wikipedia)Man, I can be a diehard fan of someone as much as the next guy, but, after reading Personal, I felt the same way I did after I read the latest John Sandford novel.
I've already scrapped Sandford's Virgil Flowers series as he carelessly allowed one of his golfing buddies to get a little too involved and turned out a piece of crap, and I'm not afraid to throw any future efforts in the Reacher series on the scrap-heap, too.
A page turner filled with action, thrills and violence aplenty. However it feels like something is missing that exists in the other Jack Reacher books. I don't think Jack being the narrator helps as it seems to spoil the action having everything explained, often beforehand. Enjoyable and a quick read but not the best in this series in my opinion.
A solid Jack Reacher novel by Lee Child. A sniper is wild ... trying to assassinate a G8 leader in the G8 summit in the UK. The sniper and Jack Reacher got a history. Jack Reacher had put him in jail 16 years ago and how he is released... A solid page turner and full of blood and guts ... bullets and chases.. cars... London.. Paris and the USA.
By coincidence, Jack Reacher picked up a discarded Army Times newspaper and discovered a classified ad directed at him – contact Shoemaker it said – and as he owed the General a favour, he did just that.
Accompanied by Casey Nice, a young and relatively new CIA agent, Reacher headed for London where they needed to do intense investigating, but under cover – the Brits weren’t to know they were there.
As Reacher and Nice moved deep into the London underground, the danger mounted.
I’ve previously enjoyed every book in the Jack Reacher series, but felt a little bored and let down by Personal.
Personal (Jack Reacher, #19), Lee Child
One day in Paris someone takes a shot at the President of France from three-quarters of a mile away and damn near hits him, but a sheet of bullet-proof glass in front of the podium deflects the shot.
He was the guy who arrested Kott sixteen years early and the Powers That Be are hoping that Reacher can find him again.
Naturally, if you are the PTB, you don't want Reacher wandering too far off the leash, though, and so they assign a young female analyst named Casey Nice to tag along and report on Reacher's activities.The hunt covers a lot of ground in the U.S., in France, and in Britain and, as always, it's great fun watching Reacher confound not only the bad guys but his handlers as well.
unusual for a Jack Reacher novel.
I realize that it's necessary to a point, but this novel, unlike the other Reacher novels I've read, focuses primarily on strategies, hypothetical situations & scenarios, and way too much detail about the artillery/ammunition used or not used as in some cases.
He goes into all the technical stuff, such as velocity of bullets, ranges, angles, specifications, material used, etc., I mean pages of this.
I like the character of Jack Reacher, and will continue reading any future releases.
If you haven't read a Reacher novel, don't start with this one.
Is this really happening?" I thought about giving an extra star because there's a fair amount of energy in the book--it's a mess, but it's a fast-paced, rollicking mess.
In the end, I decided to use one of my rare one-star ratings to wave off other folks.Just to check that I wasn't crazy, I handed it off to my wife without saying anything about the book.
She's a Lee Child fan too, but she really didn't like Personal either.
She considered it a two-star book.If you're a Lee Child fan, then consider it.
But if you've never read a Lee Child book before, I'd read all the other ones before you start this one.
they make a list of the possible shooters who might be able to do a shot like the one aimed at the French president.This list contains one wrathful person who has been put into jail by a certain military policeman by the name of Reacher.
So the powers that be in the US want Reacher on the case and ship him to France were Reacher finds the weather pleasant especially the wind.
When Reacher flies home he has tracked down the sniper and finds the one responsible for aiming the shooter.A quick and easy read that is certainly not one of the better Reacher novels but it is not too shabby either.
More Jack Reacher then and I enjoyed this one more than the last (not as much as the early ones) but it was very good.
No messing around here, Jack Reacher is Jack Reacher and that is kind of comforting.Don't expect any surprises there are not any.
The thing I mostly enjoy about these when I think about it is the fact that they are easy, predictable, do exactly what you expect them to do and are perfect reading when you don't want to have to think too much but want to be entertained.
Jack Reacher is highly entertaining.
Reacher is playing an away game in this non-stop action thriller. Mostly takes place in Paris and London, but now he is a one man wrecking crew on two continents! I enjoyed this episode in Reacher's life as much if not more than previous books.
It begins as Reacher is called back into service for the State Department and the CIA, who inform him that someone has taken a shot at the president of France.
Trying to catch the shooter before he tries again - the conventional thinking is that the next target will be one (or more) of the world leaders who will be attending an upcoming G-8 summit - puts both Reacher and Nice within shooting distance of mobsters from various countries and, of course, whoever turns out to be the sniper.
If you have been reading Jack Reacher novels, you surely know what to expect.
Jack Reacher books are great to relax with.
As a tough guy speaking his mind, and very resourceful, he is a character who is fun to read.There has been a shot taken at the French President.
There are four possible snipers who could have taken that difficult shot.
There is a twist in the tale towards the end - a plot which Reacher reasons through.
Thought aspects of it do not come across as very plausible, as always it is a light & relaxing read.
Personal is a thrilling novel at times, but after the first few chapters, it becomes really repetitive and dull.
That's why it is great to see Child rebounding with Personal, a book in which, following an assassination attempt on the President of France, Jack Reacher is called upon to help track down the man believed responsible, a former sniper that Reacher once arrested.
In a novel that spans several countries, Reacher teams up with rookie agent Casey Nice to help track down the sniper and accomplices and bring him to justice before he can create havoc at the G8 summit.
Child is back in top form here, creating a novel that is less action thriller than a satisfying suspenseful whodunit, with credible plot twists, interesting local color, and a great cast of characters to keep it entertaining.
Reacher accepts the assignment because he once arrested the American suspect and sent him to Leavenworth for 15 years which makes him uniquely qualified for the task.What takes this exceptional thriller/mystery to the next level is not that Reacher is operating outside small town USA but that he uses his considerable West Point military logic and survival skills maneuvering in a politically constrained minefield of who to trust to stop another potential assassination attempt.
Think homage to "Point of Impact" and "The Day of the Jackel" with Jack Reacher backed up by a young and very lovely state department operative.
And it appears the potential assassin has an ax to grind with Reacher and wants to take him out as well as the heads of state.The nineteenth entry in Lee Child's Jack Reacher series Personal is most disappointing one I've read so far.
In the past year or so, Child has published several Reacher novellas and stories that felt a bit rushed and left me wanting for more and a couple of Reacher novels that felt like a short story expanded far past their natural length.
Personal continues this trend, feeling more like a solid novella or short story than a full length novel.
When a shot is fired at the French president in Paris, Jack Reacher is recruited to apprehend the rogue sniper before he causes havoc at a forthcoming G8 meeting in London.
The suspected shooter, John Kott, one of the world’s best snipers, has recently been released from a lengthy stint in jail.
The action takes in rural Arkansas, Paris and London, where a gang is believed to be harbouring the sniper.
Reacher is an intriguing protagonist.
Is the ageing author living out a fantasy through his alter ego?This reader was none the less very impressed by this, his first Jack Reacher thriller.
Lee Child's Reacher character is one of my original favorite "hammers." He is the quintessential pragmatic man.
A creature of a mostly black and white world, Reacher recognizes his actions and results are always influenced by outside forces.
I will say that this tale moves quickly and the main characters are engaging.
This added to my perception that some scenes were over the top.Still, Child's novels and the Reacher character remain among my favorites.
On a more detailed scale, I provide Personal by Lee Child with a 4.2.P.S. One final comment, voiced by many.
While the bullet did not go through the protective glass, the G8 security agencies are worried about an upcoming summit in London.
The list of candidates is quickly shuttled down to three men, a Brit, Russian and American.
Reacher has a favor called in by a friend and is teamed with a young CIA agent, Casey Nice, to track down this sniper, in conjunction with a Brit and Russian.
When the Russian is killed by a long-range shot intended for Reacher, that is blown off course, the action heats up.
Reacher becomes embroiled in a turf war in East London with the Serbians.
Of course, "knowing" Reacher, Child already has quite a bit set up for us ahead of time, lol.
Hmmm, maybe I need to start my re-read…It's part of what I love about Jack Reacher (and other stories/series of this ilk) is the intelligence and observation required.
Reacher knows so very much about how his world works — I'm thinking about his knowledge of snipers, guns, making one's bones, the AK-47, government identification, and more — and an editor has to know about his or her world.
I think this was the first in the Jack Reacher series I couldn't wait to finish. Just not my cup of tea this time -- the plot, London setting, bland, uninteresting supporting characters. Even Reacher's voice seemed "off" to me in this one. Not sure what happened here (maybe it's just me), because the previous in the series was one of my very favorites, and I gave it five stars. Hoping for better in the next installment!
Reacher's pulled into a hunt for snipers, both from abroad & a home-trained one that Reacher arrested before...partnered with another young female CIA operative, feeling guilty about another one he lost under his tutelage, Reacher is on the hunt in Europe & the US...So-so Reacher, but because it IS a "Reacher" 4-stars!
Lee Child's Reacher series has had so many good thrilling action books and mysteries that the expectation is every book will be just as good.
Its a given that in Child's Reacher centric universe, he will be the best fighter - best brawler, best boxer best executor of a strategy of general fisticuffs.
There are a myriad of situations where Child forces the story to fit the Reacher one on one -- mano a mano action, where one would expect many more soldiers or characters to be involved.
Moreover the penultimate fight ends not with a good fight, but almost (in a Child universe) with Reacher cheating.Will long term fans enjoy this book.
3.5 starsI love the Jack Reacher series and eagerly await a new book.
So he leaves the confines of the roads in the U.S, and heads for Paris and London.Someone has taken a pot shot at the President of France and the suspected sniper is a man Reacher put away 15 years ago.
I found it hard to believe that the only one who can save the Free World is Jack Reacher.
All the stories involve a pretty woman he has to save although he has a different kind of relationship with the woman in the book.
