https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/630428.Abiyoyo
“Abiyoyo” is a brilliant folktale that many children who love folk songs will definitely enjoy for many years!Pete Seeger, master songwriter, has written a brilliant and creative adaptation of this classic South African folktale as he writes the story in a dramatic yet hilarious way as he makes Abiyoyo both menacing and hilarious at the same time as Abiyoyo is one of the few villains that I have seen where he easily dances to a song dedicated to him which makes him more like a great buffoon than an actual villain.
Read this as a child and saw a youtube clip of Pete Seeger himself telling this story. So I guess this a bit of nostalgia for me.
I liked how "Abiyoyo" had great images throughout the book.
I also liked how this book included a little song.
Teaching Idea: "Abiyoyo" would be a great book for introducing the topic of predictions.
While the teacher reads this book aloud, he/she can stop throughout the book and ask the students questions, such as: What do you think is going to happen next?, What do you think, or who do you think could make a noise as loud as that?, etc.
Once the teacher has finished reading the book, the teacher and the students could revisit their predictions to see if they were right.
Folk singer Pete Seeger adapts a South African folktale for a jumping, loud, lyrical picture book.
A boy who plays ukulele joins his father in banishment at the edge of their village after his father plays tricks on too many people.
The multicultural village’s curious lack of a sense of place and the shadowy, unclear evil of Abiyoyo remove the story from its origins in a way that may or may not serve the text, but the heart of the story is in its folksy, necessarily enormous musical presence in the spaces where it is read.
The little boy loved to play his ukelele that people would complain about, but at the end of the story, the little boy and his dad helped save the town from the monster, Abiyoyo with his magic wand and his song and dance he created using his ukelele.
If people in the world would take the time to get to know people better they will be able to realize that a person could be harmful in one way but very helpful in another way.
If people stop judging others by what someone tells them and sit down and actually get to know that person themselves then they would be able to make their own judgment.
The story is about the scary giant Abiyoyo, who is always hungry and appears in a small South African village to eat the cows and sheep.
Seeger begins to tell the story about a little boy and his father who were thrown out of the village for being mischievous.
The boy loves to play the ukulele around the town, and his father, a magician, plays tricks on the townspeople by waving his magic wand, making things disappear.
The townspeople are so happy Abiyoyo has vanished and welcomed the boy and his father back into the village.This book is a great addition to any unit on folktales from around the world.
The problem was about a giant called Abiyoyo that the magician father told to his son about.
On pg.12 in the only paragraph it said " People used to tell stories about the giant that lived in the old days." The next element is that it is from a specific culture.
In the folktale there is a gaint called Abiyoyo: evidence pg.12 " giants lived in the old days." To the last element, it is that it teaches a lesson; in my opinion the lesson is sometimes something that is not useful may be very useful.
Summarize the book:This is the story about a father who uses his magic wand to torment the villagers while his son annoys them with his ukulele.
The giant falls over and the father uses his magic wand to make the giant disappear.
The father is a trickster and plays tricks on the towns people the magical object, the wand, is used to make the giant disappear.
Identify specific concepts that could be integrated into the classroom:Integrating this story into the classroom, we can use it to study South African culture.
You can have students use a toy ukulele, a magic wand and culturally accurate clothing.
"Abiyoyo" is a folktale about one boy and his father that are being rejected from town.
One day, Abiyoyo, a giant that people didn't believe on, came to town.
The father *zapped* him with his magic wand, and Abiyoyo disappeared.
Is Abiyoyo a folktale?
It has to be based on a culture, has a theme, has super-powersIs based on African-American culture, and we know that because we can see that on the way they look, (on the cover) and the way they talk "clink clunk clink clunk," (pg.1, line 2).
Abiyoyo also has super-powers: the giant and the magic (pg.
The little boy plays the ukulele and it disturbs the people around him.
They tell the story of Abiyoyo who is a huge man who will eat people.
The little boy and his father have courage and go up to see Abiyoyo.
I can remind them of different lullabies or stories their parents tell them before they go to sleep and then read this to them.
This is a WOW book for me because it is about a different culture than my own and I enjoyed reading it and learning about this lullaby the South Africans would tell their children.
Soon the monster Abiyoyo shows up, terrorizing everyone, and it's only the father and son's magic that is able to save the day.I like this book for all elementary grades because it's easy to understand, the pictures are engaging and there are multiple levels to it.
A teacher could discuss things like being afraid of things you don't understand, being shunned because you're different, realizing that something that people don't like about you can be a strength, etc.
I also really enjoyed that it was a Black father and son working together to solve a problem; something that there is a lack of in popular media.
Summary: Once, there was a boy that played his ukelele all over his town and people didn't want that.
His father was a magician and got in trouble for playing too many tricks on people.
Out of town they made storys about a giant called Abiyoyo.
The child and the father went to Abiyoyo, and people said that they would die.
The child started playing his ukelele and Abiyoyo started to dance.
The town people accepted them back to town.Folktale requirements: This story meets all of the folktale requirements.
Secondly, this folktale includes superpowers: "They used to tell a story about a giant called Abiyoyo," (page 1).
This African-American folktale talks about a father and his son who the village people are sick about.
In the story, people pass from generation to generation a story about a monster called Abiyoyo.
Village people were cheering, and telling them to come back to town.I can tell this short story is a folktale because it has all elements of a folktale.
Another element of a folktale is that it has been passed from generation to generation, meaning it has no author: “The old people used to tell stories about the giants that lived in the old days” (pg.12).
Abiyoyo is a folktale that takes places in a small village (African American Culture).
The folktale narrates the story of a boy and his father.
They were ostracized from the village.People told stories about a giant called Abiyoyo, and one day Abiyoyo came to town.
They saved the village.The story is a folktale because first of all	It is fiction, because on p.2 line #2-3 it states “He’d go Zoop!
It is of African-American culture because of the illustration because they show the way that people dress and mostly everyone is black also it is also set in a Village.
Abiyoyo is a perfect book to incorporate culture, music, and reading strategies into the classroom.
It is an old South African folktale about a monster that comes into town and eats people's cattle and destroys farms.
However, it is those habits that saves the day, making everyone in the town loving them and wanting them to come back.
These wonderful features contained in this story is what makes this a WOW book for me.
I would love to read this story aloud to my classroom to engage them in folktales and also teach them the moral of accepting everyone.

During library school, there was a storytelling class I took, and one of my fellow students was a teacher getting her media specialist title. She performed this book with such flair as well as singing the song with a tune that she may have gotten from elsewhere or made up, I don't know. I do know that I now do this story - including the song - exactly the way she did it, and it is always a big hit with the five to eight set.
The book Abiyoyo was a charming folktale of a man and a boy that were not liked by their town and a scary monster named Abiyoyo. This book would be good for a read aloud in 1st grade classes and up. It has a great message of bravery and judgement. It teaches not to be so easily annoyed and quick to judge people. Children will love the tale of all the magic and a funny dancing monster.
2013: This is one of those books that my daughter asked me to read again upon finishing it the first time—and I didn't mind.2018: This was just the right amount of spooky and magical for our four-year-old preschool group. They liked it!
The main thing I remember about this book is that it came with a cassette, and the Abiyoyo song will still periodically get stuck in my head, even though I haven't heard it in 13 or 14 years. Abiyoyo, Abiyoyo. Abiyoyo, iyoyo, iyoyo!
This was suggested to me because I've read some other folktales recently. It was cute.
A golden classic from when I was a sprout. Truly a treat to enjoy this book with my 6 year old boy. Excellent in every regard. Musical, multi-cultural, short & sweet.
Earworm. Abi-yoyo abi-yoyo. Also, scary monster on the horizon. Great for before bed :)
My children love, love, love this story & song. We have it on cd in the car.
It talks about how Abiyoyo plays ukulele and is kicked out of his town because of his loud music.
His father also does magic tricks and they both get shunned from the town.
However, a large monster comes and they are able to play their music and do their magic to get him to go away.
Music is such an impactful and beautiful part of life and it disappoints me that this book shuns it.
Also, magic is a fun and important hobby that helps many people with social skills and working the brain.
The story tells a tale of a boy and his father who are social outcasts, but end up saving the town from a giant using magic and melody.I love this story and song.
It combines story telling with song which is a wonderful and effective way for children to develop literary skills.You could use this as a way to introduce folk tales of different cultures as well as to teach children that no matter how "different" they may feel, they always have something to offer the world.
Abiyoyo” by Pete Seeger is classified as a fictional book, targeting ages PreK and older.
This book is a good selection for introducing children to African folklore.
I would present this story using the video book version because it has music and sounds (spoken and sung by Samuel Williams) and is told in a way that is very engaging.
The story is inspiring with a messages about redemption, overcoming obstacles, cooperation and teamwork.
The story has a man-eating giant however; the illustrations are not very scary.
Even though this story is considered a lullaby, I would not use as a bedtime story.
I introduced a reading project on Friday with my class with the goal to bring forth their favorite book thus far next week into the classroom. This was chosen and read aloud by my student teacher, and I was so happy to rediscover this one. It holds a multicultural theme, power of music and song, and the idea that everyone can serve a purpose and part for the good of all. I enjoyed it, and my class was entertained. Very good story, and I'm going to have to show the classic Reading Rainbow episode this was featured on for them!
Abiyoyo is a story based off an old african folktale about a giant. The book also features a single father and his child who have been ostracised by their town. The illustrations and text are very engaging and show that although initially the town did not enjoy their pranks/music, they were able to use it them to save the town from the giant. I would be cautious when reading this book at first because some children may find Abiyoyo frightening but overall may use it when reading to a large group.
This story is about a young boy and his father who get banished out of a town for playing the ukulele and magic tricks on people. Then Abiyoyo comes to terrorize the town but the young boy and father work together to defeat Abiyoyo.This book is is great for students to read from 3 to 5th grade. The illustrations are fun for the students to read and look at. The language can be difficult for the younger grades so that is why it is better for the older grades.
