https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18770398-night-film
(4.5)HOLY MOLY THIS BOOK WAS FANTASTIC. F A N T A S T I C. The only reason I'm giving it a 4.5 is because it felt unnecessarily long. Even though I flew through this sucker, I feel like it could have been condensed a bit. Other than that this was SO SO SO GOOD. AHHH.
Sovereign. Deadly. Perfect.
remember the immense fawning hordes of fans and the praise surrounding that book??
but it was a Very Big Deal at the time.and it was a book that i personally thought was just okay.
and scott's going to find out what really happened to ashley cordova, and maybe uncover some dirt on stanislas himself and restore his own reputation.ooorrrr issss heeee???trapdoors upon trapdoors upon trapdoors.i do not want to say anything that will mar your reading experience.
The characters are paper-flat, they all speak in exactly the same (preposterous) voice, and none of them develop an inch.
"But that's okay," you might argue; "Pessl's writing a thriller, and plot is her main concern." Fine, but the plot of this novel is deeply, deeply boring.
The protagonist stumps around from obvious clue to obvious clue, talking to a host of characters who spill details for no reason.
Most baffingly, the writing itself is terrible.
It's as if Pessl is getting paid per misplaced modifier.
The scariest thing about this novel is the cruel way its author tortures grammar.
I believe this book will be in my top 3 I have read for the year.
Ashley Cordova is believed to have committed suicide, but McGrath suspects more to the story.
This is definitely a book that will stay with me for a long time; I don't typically reread books as I have so many new ones I need to read, but I feel like this might be one I reread once a year or so.
This one is a GREAT bridge for those wanting to make a leap from the suspense/thriller genre (traditional) to horror, but need something to ease them into something containing bits of the supernatural.
I loved them all together but Nora is my favorite character in the book.There is a creepy website where fans can go and write things about Cordova's films etc.
There were a few disturbing things on the site but it adds to the mystery of the freaks and what not.The picture below is speculated to be Cordova's son Theo who came running out of the woods needing to get to the hospital because he managed to cut his fingers off.
Scott, Nora and Hopper had a very hard time finding things out about him in particular.Cordova had a home he lived in with his family and where he made his films.
Has it happened yet? Have the oh-so-annoying cover notations calling every new release the “new Gone Girl” ceased and “the new Night Film” labels taken over?. If so, the loud bang you will soon hear will be my head exploding. If Kubrick, Polanski, Hitchock, and Tarantino had a twisted little baby, his name would most likely have been Stanislas Cordova. A genius who gained fame immediately after his first horror film release – Cordova has spent his life in exile on his private estate (hmmmmm, ma
Scott McGrath is an investigative journalist who watched his career, and a good chunk of money, go up in flames after publishing an article outlining the real life creepery that Cordova was engaging in – and using only an anonymous John Doe as his source.Now Cordova’s daughter has apparently committed suicide and McGrath finds himself desperate to find the truth about the recluse’s life once again.First impression – the physical weight of this book was notable and upon opening it the paper felt exquisite.
This book left me feeling like I’d wasted nearly a week of my life only to end up feeling completely barren.
مزيج جهنمي رهيب من التوتر، الرعب، الريبة، الإنتقام وسحر السينمامن الأخلاص،التسامح ومشاعر صارت نادرة بعالمنا المادي التجاريرواية ضخمة، 599 صفحة ستنقلك لحالة غريبة محورها مخرج سينمائي مثير للجدل..مخرج كهؤلاء العمالقة الغرباءولكنه أكثر ظلاما وجنونا..إنه ستانليس كوردوفا..الذي ستشعر كأنك تعيش فعلا في أحد أفلامه..الفيـلم الليـلي~~سبع علامات تحدد ان كان يناسبك دخول ومشاهدة الفيلم الليلي~~***إن كنت من هواة سحر السينما،وعباقرة المخرجين بالاخص أولئك ذوي الأسرار،وافلامهم التي تقتحم النفس البشرية “I love to
“We’re living longer, we social network alone with our screens, and our depth of feeling gets shallower.” “With the iPiano, anyone can be an iMozart.
”Whatever the truth about Cordova, within fifteen horrifying films, he taught us how our eyes and minds perpetually deceive us--that what we know to be certain never is.”In the shadows stood a girl in a red coat.Stanislas Cordova disappeared from public life thirty years ago. Scott McGrath, an investigative reporter, made an attempt to uncover the truth about Cordova and his films. McGrath paid a heavy price financially when Cordova sued him, and also professionally when some of his allegations
”Whatever the truth about Cordova, within fifteen horrifying films, he taught us how our eyes and minds perpetually deceive us--that what we know to be certain never is.”In the shadows stood a girl in a red coat.Stanislas Cordova disappeared from public life thirty years ago.
Scott McGrath, an investigative reporter, made an attempt to uncover the truth about Cordova and his films.
When Ashley Cordova, the filmmaker’s daughter, commits suicide by hurling herself off a building, McGrath, despite still recovering from his last losing bout against Cordova, senses that finally he has a line of inquiry that might lead him to vindication.
FIVE STARS NO SPOILERS. I PROMISE!After spending a whole day peeling back the Night Film tentacles from around my head, I can gratefully report that I’m almost back to my normal self after reading this one.Let me correct the last part of that sentence. You do not simply read Night Film. Before you open this book, take a moment to prepare yourself.You are about to enter into a multi-media, multi-sensory whole body experience.  GET READY FOR A black magic curse to be cast on your soul!!!  SIDE EFF
I PROMISE!After spending a whole day peeling back the Night Film tentacles from around my head, I can gratefully report that I’m almost back to my normal self after reading this one.Let me correct the last part of that sentence.
The daughter of a reclusive horror-film director Stanislas Cordova is found dead, and fallen journalist Scott McGrath falls into a maddening wormhole of trying to uncover the truth behind the girl’s murder.
Pessl doesn’t give us all the answers and that’s why every person that reads Night Film will take away something different.
You have Night Film.This is not a perfect book, much as I want all my favorites to be.
well uh, this was a mind f*cker "to the edge of the end" - yup sums it up I would say
Every day I would go out to the mail with the hope it would be there, and then one day it was.....I opened the package and it was gloooooorious!There were pictures....and case files and notes, and more pictures...It was my soul-mate book...I waited for the perfect time to read it.
A stormy night, candles lit, house dark...Since I love watching movies and TV almost as much as I love reading, many times when I am reading a book I get images of something I have watched in the past or music of soundtracks play in my head.
Scott finds himself unable to stay away, and starts a new investigation on Cordova, and this time he has two unconventional helpers.This book feels really linear.
Like, Scott and his new sidekicks going to one person after another person, just interviewing them and getting information that will eventually lead them to another person.
He shows the signs of this everywhere (look, I can use italics just like the author does constantly.) He judges the PoC, and the PoC's only purpose throughout this book is to help the main, white, privileged main character.
4.5 Stars.
I listened to the audio version.
I'm late to the party but boy am I glad I went!
This book has been reviewed to death so I will just give my thoughts on it.This is a fantastic audiobook if you have the time!
It's over 23 hours!
5 Stars for the story, especially since it kept me guessing until the end.4 Stars for how this book translated into audio.
There were a couple parts that were difficult but if you have a copy of the book on hand it will help.5 Huge Stars for the narration by actor Jake Weber!
Scott McGrath used to be a hotshot investigative journalist until he started looking into mysterious and reclusive film director Stanilas Cordova who has been holed up in his remote estate making underground masterpieces of suspense that seem to ruin the lives of almost everyone involved with them.
Which isn’t entirely fair because it’s obvious that the author was trying to walk that line and does it pretty well, but for me I would have liked a bit more commitment one way or another.One other note about the multimedia aspects.
The synopsis of the book really intrigued me because I am such a junkie for anything psychological, thrilling, investigative, and mysterious, so I felt that Night Film would be the perfect fit for me .
I fully understand why things wrapped up the way they did, and it brought an interesting morale to the plot, but I was really hoping for something equally as insane to end it all.In conclusion, I LOVED Night Film.
It has definitely turned me on to the Adult Mystery/ Psychological Thriller genre, and I will be sure to make more of an effort to include more books like this in my reading after realizing how much I love it.
Or maybe that picture is never really complete because it exists in an ever-changing reality and all you can do is theorize and deduce and grab hold of whichever belief helps you sleep best at night, hoping nothing will come along later to challenge that belief, but still preparing yourself for that possibility because it almost always happens eventually, one way or the other, doesn’t it?My apologies for the vagueness there but when you finish the book you’ll understand.
Or maybe you will just roll your eyes and think, “whatever, man.” Either way.
“Need some sort of meta-commentary on the story, lets come up with another film to explore.”The only character I really felt any connection to was Nora, one of the Scooby Doo kids, the other meddlesome punk, Hopper, I wanted to punch in the throat or maybe have sacrificed in an elaborate black mass.The nebulous ending has drawn complaints, but that didn’t bother me as much as the pot-hole ridden trip to get there.
When the daughter of a legendary reclusive film director commits suicide, disgraced investigative reporter Scott McGrath sees his chance for redemption, for he crossed paths with the director, Stanislas Cordova, years before, costing him his family and his career.
Scott McGrath was once a rising star in the field of journalism but lost everything when he crossed Stanislas Cordova.
When Ashley Cordova commits suicide, the hunt is on once again.The book has the structure of a detective story, interspersed with articles and web postings about Stanislas Cordova and his family and associates.
I kept coming across references and connections to books I’d read and films I’d seen: there was a girl in a red coat, reminiscent of Nicolas Roeg’s film Don’t Look Now; a long, crazy but brilliantly riveting section that screamed of Dennis Lehane’s Shutter Island; a character who sold potions from a shop right out of Harry Potters Diagon Alley.
There was a pervading atmosphere of suspense, particularly in the second half of the book, and by the end I’d totally bought into it and had no real idea how it was ultimately going to play out.
I wasn't bored or unaffected but the effect it did have was not really the kind Pessl intended, which is why I can't say it succeeded either.Night Film follows a disgraced investigative reporter, Scott McGrath, as he digs into the mystery surrounding Ashley Cordova's suicide.
Every time Scott and his sidekicks took a break to ponder over their personal dilemmas, I would start to skim till the words 'Ashley' or 'Cordova' popped up again.Night Film is not the kind of book that gives you the correct answer.
So I find myself a little tongue-tied.I will say this, as lightly as I can: This is the story of cult film director Stanislas Cordova, a reclusive figure who hasn't appeared in public in forty years, whose films are all made on his sprawling upstate New York estate—films whose actors and actresses tend to disappear to the remotest corners of the world once production wraps, films that are only shown in creepy underground secret screenings, films that are so twisted and dark that some people lose their shit after watching them and others dedicate their lives to figuring them out.

I started this book Friday and my whole weekend involved it.
I'm a nosy bit so I kept leaving it to Google things that come up in the story.
This book is so very dark though.
I had several times that I had to leave it alone because I honestly felt so creeped out that I felt like I was being watched.I'm not going to go into the story line because really you should read this book.
Dark magic, witchcraft and devil worship do play a part in this book.
If that bothers you don't read it.
I kept telling myself this................
This is quite a while for an 'it' author to come out with a second book, and it's bordering on the time that makes you start to forget about her, think that maybe she just had that one book in her, and maybe even think, well at least it was one good book and she didn't immediately follow it up with some shit that she probably wrote for an undergrad creative writing class and now has polished up to get another paycheck, but also seven years is a long time.
Ashley Cordova kept making me think of Joelle, and Saratoga Springs* is mentioned exactly one time in each work.
Night Film received a lot of hype even before its publication, being the sophomore effort of Marisha Pessl, who came to fame with her 2006 debut  Special Topics in Calamity Physics . I haven't read it but remember it being well-received by the critics and gaining some popularity with the readers, which wasn't bad for a first try. Ms. Pessl's second book was surrounded by quite a lot of hype even before its publication, with readers impatiently awaiting the day of its release. Well, now the book
Night Film received a lot of hype even before its publication, being the sophomore effort of Marisha Pessl, who came to fame with her 2006 debut 
Did it deliver or not?Night Film is narrated by Scott McGrath, a once succesful investigative journalist whose career shattered after he penned an article on a reclusive film director, Stanislas Cordova, whose films are notorious for not shying away from violence and controversy.
McGrath believes that he has seen Ashley shortly before her suicide, when he was jogging in a park - and starts a new investigation of Cordova, hoping to avenge Ashley's death by exposing her father.
I have absolutely no idea why this has so many FIVE-STAR reviews.
Y'all are tripping.
And all that ranting about OMG SPOILERS SUCH AN INTRICATE STRUCTURE SPOILERS?
Bullshit.
I will lay this book out for you:(view spoiler)[Remember on the X-Files how the show really went off the rails when Chris Carter wanted to make it an absolutely balanced choice that everything was ALIENS (magic) or the GOV'T CONSPIRACY (science)?
That's this book.
But really, that's what Pessl tries to do, and it doesn't work any better here than it did on the X-Files.
(hide spoiler)]Read House of Leaves instead.
Και ότι ελπίδα αποκτάς καταποντίζεται απο μεσαιωνικές κατάρες,σημάδια του κακού,άγνωστες μαύρες συνομωσίες και σπονδές στο γλοιώδες υποχθονιο τέρας ζητώντας ανταλλαγές και εξιλέωση!
Μαγικά τερτίπια παίζονται παντού και αποφασίζεις να πιστέψεις έστω για λιγο το απίστευτο!Μεσα απο την ομολογουμένως δυνατή και γρήγορη πλοκή επικρατεί αριστοτεχνικά η παράνοια και η αμφιβολία για όλους και για όλα!Τελικά ειναι αλλη μια μάχη των αιωνίων εχθρών του κακού και του καλού;Ειναι μια ένδοξη νίκη του κακού και ότι αυτο μπορεί να επιφέρει;Καταλήγοντας πιστεύω πως το βιβλιο -οχι τέλεια- περναει μηνύματα δύναμης μέσω της θέλησης του ανθρώπινου μυαλού!
Τα παντα οφείλονται και εξαρτώνται απο την αθρωπινη σκέψη,πεποίθηση,βούληση!Τα συμπεράσματα για όλα τα κολασμένα υπερφυσικά και μεταφυσικά 'βιβλικά' γεγονότα.....δικά σας!!
I'm not one to look a gift ARC in the mouth (particularly one that I was REALLY looking forward to reading) but, sadly, I just can't embrace the lumbering, sprawling, epic-in-length (though hardly -in-content) "thriller", Marisha Pessl's Night Film.
Ms. Pessl is adept at turning a clever phrase or two, but to me has zero sense of suspense timing, and the investigation work (which you get the sense early on is a buncha misdirected hoo-ha) seems about as ineffectiual, innoccuous, confusing and never-ending as a misprinted Chinese Food take-out menu (with every third sentence inexplicably italicized to convey a Stephen King-like sense of creepiness) (Ms Pessl is REALLY in love with italics...just warning you)I should've been leery with all the Random House-generated hype about Night Film being 2013's Gone Girl.
I hope I still have plenty of excellent reads to come in 2013, but they're going to have a hell of a hard time living up to this.The protagonist of this epic, ambitious tale is Scott McGrath, formerly an extremely successful investigative journalist, whose professional reputation was destroyed when he was found to have made false allegations against Stanislas Cordova, an infamously reclusive film director.
In the internet age, is it honestly believable that a) the films wouldn't have made it out there as downloads and been seen by pretty much everyone, and b) nobody who'd worked with Cordova would have talked more about him?
