https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/167584.Camino_Real
This play is in some ways awesome, but it's also a challenge to decipher and to keep track of, mainly because Williams has used so many literary references as symbols to represent various themes.
I can't imagine giving it 3 stars if I hadn't read some explanations of the play when I became stumped!
And it doesn't get more stars because I think with half the cast and references, it would have been just as loaded but at least bearable.
Also, without the added info, and lots of patience, I would have dismissed it as absurdist (not my thing), whereas it's really just fantastic.
I picked up a used copy that was published in Britain in 1958 (the year I was born, which is what made me decide to buy it), and was surprised to find I was not prepared for the weirdness.
Which is funny, because I usually love weirdness, the farther out the better.
Mind you, I'm not sorry I read this, quite the opposite.
No doubt, like a lot of works that are disturbing when first read, I will end up having affection for it after some time has passed.
The difference is that the piled on allusions are quaint in a five minute song, and there's always the music (including the brilliant guitar obligato on the original track, or the wonderful leads by Jerry Garcia on the Grateful Dead's many covers).
In a play lasting over two hours, and especially READING the play, and so not having any of the visual embellishment (which I imagine could work well and in a manner similar to the musical embellishment to Dylan's lyrics), the heavy allusions tended to fall a little flat.
I'm at a loss as to how I should react to this play.
Didn't hate it, but I definitely didn't love it.
Ambivalence is probably the most accurate term.This is easily one of the most experimental works TW ever produced; it also, apparently, was his favorite of the plays he wrote.
Personally, I don't get the appeal.
I feel like this would be a much better play to see performed than read.
But considering this is TW's least-staged play, I'm pretty sure that won't happen for me anytime soon.Two (?) stars.

Although it was unsuccessful commercially, this is one of Tennessee Williams's most intriguing plays, set in a limbo where famous characters and familiar Williams archtypes live out their days, trying to find love and avoid ruin.
Originally conceived as a one-act, Williams continually revisited the play and expanded it into a full-length drama that had a short run on Broadway in 1953, starring Eli Wallach and directed by Elia Kazan.
The published version reflected yet another rewrite that restored to the text many scenes and lines that had been cut by Kazan, which probably helped the dramaturgy, but took out much of Williams's lyricism and passion.
In its obscure style, the play foreshadows other works of late Williams, which largely failed, following "The Night of the Iguanain 1961."Camino Real" is set in a small town presumably located in Mexico but a product of imagination.
The major character in the play is Kilroy, 27, an American and former championship boxer on the skids who is cast into Camino Real with only memories of his past successes.
He suffers from a bad heart which has expanded in his chest to the "size of the head of a baby."The characters in "Camino Real" tell their stories and interact in strange impressionistic ways which owe as much to the setting and to symbols as to the script.
Agree with the playwright's forward that despite the play's dream-like nature if you meet it halfway you're going to get something out of it. Has something to say about what we really want and how far we are willing to go to get it, how willing to leave things behind, let go of the past, step out into the unknown.Love Tennessee Williams and would especially like to see a production of this r at least will need to read it again a couple times to let the flavors soak into my mind and heart a little more.
If Streetcar is a sublime work of art, then Williams's Camino Real is a profound work of art. Not nearly as accessible as most of his plays, it is still the only one that is as pertinent today as it was when it was performed in the '50s. This is a must read for artists.
I loved this story. The plot moves quickly and a reader has little time to get bored. I loved all the hidden references within the story. I will admit it can be a little difficult to get through though and you may need to spend time on the text.
A perfect example of the the dream like state Williams can draw so brilliantly from. A timeless tale of horror that I hope I can see performed one day.
Maybe I am not imaginative enough to see past this pile of confusion.
I understand why people would leave their seats and demand a refund as mentioned by Williams himself in the foreword.
I did give it a chance and I did try to meet it half way.
I wasn’t sure if this is some sort of lower east side tenement neighborhood which also doubled as limbo/ purgatory.
Unfortunately, I did not understand the whole deal with Esmeralda and the veil.
Was that some sort of a Henry V and Kate meeting scene, or a last wish.
I also did not understand the golden heart metaphor.
A weird play, but interesting enough to keep me reading till the end. Very Kafka-esk, but with a festival flair attached to it. Big. What I'll carry from the play is the sentence I quoted below. It's uttered by Don Quixote at the beginning of the play. What a magnificent line:"When so many are lonely as seem to be lonely, it would be inexcusably selfish to be lonely alone."
"God bless all con men and hustlers and pitch-men who hawk their hearts on the street, all two-time 
Sometimes a book needs a specific reader.
A subset of those books need a specific reader who encounters the book at the right time in their life to appreciate it.
From reading reviews on this site I have come to the conclusion that 1 star reviews are mostly about the reader encountering a book that is not ever going to work for them, or if it could - this wasn't the right time.That being said, Camino Real just didn't do much for me.
I'm in rehearsals for this play right now and while it's totally fascinating to watch Tennessee Williams try to out-Brecht Brecht, I am still not sold. The poetry is not as rich as Glass Menagerie or Streetcar and it doesn't succeed at dealing with new forms as much as Outcry. I still always feel lucky to say his words out loud, and he pretty always gets lonely dead-on.
I was fascinated by this play when I first read it, decades ago - it was one of the first plays that knocked this golden boy off his pedestal by critics who didn't want him experimenting. But he kept doing it. I don't know that it's often (ever?) performed these days, but if you're looking for a play similar to Streetcar or Cat, you won't find it here - to me, however, a worthwhile read.
I'm all for a surreal, metaphoric meditation on death, but this play is not my cup of tea. None of the characters interested me, and aside from Kilroy's night with Esmeralda, I wasn't all that engaged with it. I feel like I need to give it a second change, but my first impression was that this was a failed experiment.
Tennessee must have popping a lot of pills when he wrote this over-stuffed drama. Still, it is interesting to see the places his mind was able to go.
Such a great play. I am kind of sad I haven't seen it performed before, but Williams is hard to produce to some degree. I really enjoyed this one though.
Early David Lynch... in theater!
رائعه مثيره جميله مؤثره
I have enjoyed getting to know Tennessee Williams this summer...
Not one of Tenn's best. I can't recommend it to casual fans but Tenn junkies will definitely find some kind of marginal interest in the proceedings.
Delightful.
3 1/2 stars
Well, that was wild! I think I liked it. This may be a play that you have to see performed to truly appreciate.
