https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17910124-the-emperor-s-blades
a book this big, they're bound to miss some, but sometimes it was the same hundred-word thing explained in the exact same terms two chapters later because the chapter in between was in a different POV and what if we forget?3.
this one scene, a thing one of them had eight years to wonder about didn't even occur to him until right before it became a big ol' plot point.6.
if a crucial plot point requires several persons be thusly concussed all in a row, and then conveniently revived by firm slaps to the face a minute later, you should probably never write anything else again write several sequels because my people at Tom Doherty and Associates love that shit, apparently.nice try.
It doesn’t do this book justice.
Some authors are poets; they take those words and twist them around into beautiful prose.
They take those words and that beautiful prose and work them into immensely complicated storylines.
They stitch them to and fro as they weave a literary tapestry and while reading, you get mere glimpses of the pattern they’re creating.
Thank you, Mr. Staveley, for reminding me of ALL the reasons that I love to read.
This book blew my fucking mind.
Favorite Fantasy book of the year...maybe even ever.More to come if I can figure out some way to do this justice.Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Pinterest
This is where the story really began and I’ll leave the rest for you to find out but the book is an adult military high fantasy filled with philosophy, faith, politics, conspiracies, mystery and especially coming of age aspects depending on whose perspective you’re reading from and in my opinion, they’re all ‘Kent-kissing’ great to read.While it’s true that the plot for me is intriguing, it needed to be said the pacing is really slow at times.
I better love this because my dad bought it for me and girls of all ages want to love a book their dad bought!
❤**Okay, so it wasn't a 5 start review but I still liked the book.
I will admit the book is full of a lot of arseholes that are evil!
I really hope I will enjoy the next two books in the trilogy!
I want to see what's going to happen with this family!!
And I'm sure the books will be full of more evil arseholes.
Oh, and I want to have my own bird to ride 😄Just sayin' Mel ❤
I better love this because my dad bought it for me and girls of all ages want to love a book their dad bought!
❤️**Okay, so it wasn't a 5 start review but I still liked the book.
I will admit the book is full of a lot of arseholes that are evil!
I really hope I will enjoy the next two books in the trilogy!
I want to see what's going to happen with this family!!
And I'm sure the books will be full of more evil arseholes.
Oh, and I want to have my own bird to ride 😄Just sayin' Mel ❤️
Brains are likewise rotting b/c FEELINGS.Basically, b/c they're human.Fast forward a few thousand years (far enough that the unaging race of logic monsters is nothing more than a myth), and our story is mostly told from the alternating perspectives of two brothers, both the sons of the Emperor, both sent away as boys to train, but to different places, for entirely different purposes.Kaden, the heir, is sent to live with a bunch of monks.
At times, these obvious things were even stated OUT LOUD:(view spoiler)[“So let’s get this straight,” Gwenna said, shaking her head.
What I did read was - and I'm sorry again to all the book's fans - so so fucking boring.Actually no, I'll give credit where it's due - the prologue was fantastic.
But I've found ones to love like The Name of the Wind and Half a King, so there's always some hope left for me.Part of me wants to say this book is slow because hell, did it feel like it!
And, even though the book is made up of constant scenes of action, the actual main plotline had made hardly any progress by the halfway point of the novel.
Among all the action, twists, and turns, this book somehow became one of the most addicting things I've read in a long time.
Unfortunately, Adare also gets a considerably less amount of chapters than her brothers, but I was enthralled each time we got a glimpse of her story in Annur.
At first, I thought he was the reason the book felt a little slow, but then, once his story starting going, his chapters ended up being the most addicting.
Now, is it time for me to ignore all my ARCs and responsibilities and read The Providence of Fire?
This review has been a long time coming, as Emperor’s Blades is still one of the best books I’ve read this year (actual Goodreads update: “5/5 stars!
I’m just going to try my hardest to forget that someone spilled the beans on whodunnit before I got that far… I’m not bitter.Overall, Emperor’s Blades had all of the things that excite me about reading fantasy – in abundance!
3.75⭐This is one of those books that I really liked but find it difficult to review. I’ve very mixed feelings so bear with me here. I'd also like to add that this is after all the first book in the series and when have I ever been blown away by first books, save for some few exceptions here and there? Can’t win ‘em all now, can we?Don’t get me wrong, I loved it and I found the world and magic system to be especially thrilling and fascinating that invite reader investment but that's not to say it
Well yes, except for the issues that played a big part in hindering me from fully enjoying the story.And though I genuinely liked all three of the protagonists, I had a problem with each and every one of their perspective storylines.Issue #1:For starters, Adare was given only a fraction of the page time that her brothers received and I would’ve loved to have seen more of her, particularly given the fact that among the three points of view, her story arc is arguably the one that holds the entire story together and is the most significant in relation to the coming of epic confrontation.It is also through her story that we get a greater sense of the world in which they inhabit, and where we discover that the plot that took down her and her brother's father was much greater and far more complicated.
It had everything: maximum stabbiness, torture, bleeding, complex plot, treachery, plot twists, everything I love being murdered, epic stabby royal siblings, psychopaths, assassins, and EVEN A BIT OF SASS NOW AND THEN.
Honestly this is the kind of book I aspire to write.EXCUSE ME WHILE I LOSE MY MIND IN LOVE AND ADORATION FOR THIS MASTERPIECE OMG.(Yes, oh shush, I'll review sensibly in a second.
But at least this book really promoted the epicness of the women!!And I wanted to cry.
BUT DON'T LET THIS FOOL YOU: THIS IS EXACTLY WHAT I WANT IN A BOOK.
He also had a serious case of Disney Eyes in regard to “good” characters.- Considering this is meant to be morally grey “grimdark” fantasy there are clearly drawn lines between the “good” and “bad” guys.But what I really want to speak about is the representations of women in Blades particularly, and grimdark fantasy generally.
She pretty much confirms all the criticisms and concerns people have about her and I'm not even sure the author realises this.LinI have a real issue with love interests who are sexually assaulted and then fridged to provide impetus for a male POV character.
I still enjoyed this book, it well written with an engaging story, but not quite as much the second time through and I blame my love for Brandon Sanderson's high fantasy for this.
See I found Sanderson, Rothfuss and Abercrombie books not long after reading The Emperor's Blades this year and they have made my fantasy well much deeper and I expect a little more.
Brian Staveley will, in all probability, just improve as time goes on and I can’t wait to read anything else he writes.Told from the perspective of the Emperor’s three children Kaden, Valyn and Adare so many different facets of the world were shown to the reader.
This was the good shit 👀🙌🏽
It’s quite shocking actually: a book that is going to be published could stand to lose its first 300 pages.
What’s worse, in each of her chapters we are constantly reminded that this girl cannot be emperor, that she has no role in this man’s fantasy world.
Give me a fantasy novel where men and women are equal and absolutely nothing has to be said about it because it’s normal!
Despite all these gripes, The Emperor’s Blades is a mildly entertaining novel that will be appreciated by those who like their fantasy more popcorny and less meaty.
Originally reviewed at Bookwraiths.After reading fantasy for most of my life, I’ve seen more than a few  “Next Big Thing”  come along. Some of those hyped novels and series have lived up to the tile, but more than a few have crumbled under the expectations. At least, in my eyes they did. And so when I kept seeing people rave about Brian Staveley’s The Emperor’s Blades, I was a bit skeptical, fearing another letdown if I let myself get sucked into the frenzy. Well, after finally breaking down and
Well, after finally breaking down and reading it, I now realize all that waiting and doubting was a huge mistake, because this is the real deal in epic fantasy; the Next Big Thing in the genre; the series I can see myself eagerly following for years to come!The Emperor’s Blades follows along behind three of the Emperor’s children: Kaden (the heir), Valyn (the soldier), and Adare (the politician).
If there is truly a “coming-of-age” narrative in the book, I’d point at Valyn’s chapters, because there is a love interest, tough choices, and some emotional turmoil from an unexpected lose; all of which means Valyn displays more angst than his siblings.The final “Blade” in this trio is Adare.
'Kent kissing awesome.
They could all die for all I care.✘ And because, no matter how violent this book is supposed to be, it doesn't change the fact that it is Freaking YA.
I'm in one of the foulest moods EVER, and this is a discussion you do not want to have with me right now.THE END.PS: I won't even bother rating this one, that's how much I care about it.✉ A very personal, very private message to Ange: I will always love you, no matter how many crappy books you recommend I read.
“Obedience is a knife that cuts the cord of bondage.Silence is a hammer that shatters the walls of speech.Stillness is strength; pain a soft bed.Put down your basin; emptiness is the only vessel.”   Four Stars: ✰✰✰✰ This book, shockingly, was actually better than I was expecting it to be, just from the blurbs and little snippets I've seen on Goodreads and Audible. I was expecting more or less just another typical modern fantasy book - that wasn't especially interesting or original; but this bo
I was expecting more or less just another typical modern fantasy book - that wasn't especially interesting or original; but this book surprised me with it's highly original world building and story.
By the time I got to the end of the book I started to understand why the author did this, but it was still frustrating, because I got all excited about a story I would never actually get to read.It took me a little while to get into it because of that, but once this book got going, it was really quite good.
I have read a lot of mediocre reviews on this book.
In fact, many of the review sites that I respect the most posited that this book was highly overrated, and they had no idea why Tor had pushed the book so hard.
So, I went into this book thinking that it would be an enjoyable read, but nothing too special.
This is a wonderful debut novel and the start to a new series that I am sure I will read over and over again.
This is one of those novels that I have a hard time finding anything to criticize.
Highly, highly recommended.1/6/2014 Edit: This book comes out next week (I'm ridiculously excited to get my hardcover of it) and I read this interesting blog by Brian Staveley about the inspiration for the Kettral training scenes hereThere’s a scene near the middle of The Emperor’s Blades in which a class of Kettral cadets, ultra-elite warriors who fly massive hawks into battle, are undergoing their final test: Hull’s Trial.
After I spent a good portion of the book detailing theories in my head, only to be wrong most of the time, the final twist absolutely blew my mind.Kaden, Valyn, and Adare are some of my favorite characters - I was utterly and completely on their side from the very first moments we met each of them.
The Emperor has just been assassinated and this book follows the story of his three children as they seek to avoid the same fate.
The eldest, Adare, remained at court with her father and learned the ways of government.
The youngest sibling, Kaden, is the heir to the throne and is training in a far flung monastery.
The middle sibling, Valyn, is training to be a warrior with the legendary Kettral.
I liked Valyn's story the most.
The Kettral training was interesting and the secondary characters were the most developed.
Kaden's story was fairly interesting.
Adare seemed likable enough.
In the strict sense of goodreads rating I should have given it 1 single lonely star, I'm giving it that second one because the last 15% of the book was actually pretty good.
BOOK SIN #2 As stated Kaden has been learning stuff for eight years.
The guy acts like an idiot for 85% of the book!BOOK SIN #3 Actually I think stupidity runs in the family.
Valyn has been training for the same amount of time with the super awesome black ops elite force.
I find it hard to believe that this was Staveley's debut novel because the writing style, the intricate world we're introduced to, the highly complex characters, et cetera seems like something an author whose had a lot of practice in writing high fantasy novels would provide.
To find out if this is going to be your next read or not let me direct you through a set of questions.Are you a high fantasy lover?Do you like complex world building?Do you like alternating point of views?Do you like rich writing?Do you like flawed yet amazing characters?
I realized then that I haven't read a single Fantasy novel that was published in 2014.
If you're going to give us something we might've read about before, make sure to add in some elements that would be noteworthy.Valyn, Kaden and Adare are the main characters of the novel.
All of the attention was given to Valyn, and that for me was the reason why I didn't like this novel.
Her story was even more interesting than Valyn, and she only had a few chapters.
I can pair this with The Name of The Wind as some of the most disappointing Fantasy novels I've read.
4 Stars “If we figure everyone might be a murderer, we’re less likely to be disappointed.” Look at me, reading and enjoying adult fantasy! This one starts with the death of an Emperor and follows his three children navigate the dangerous empire and the plot that killed him. Overall, this world was a lot of fun, with a complex and interesting magic system. The world-building was gradual so everything made sense, without being too 'dumbed' down or slow. I loved the way it came together in the end
I loved the way it came together in the end and the plot-twists perfectly.I loved how this contained morally gray characters who actually make tough decisions.
Valyn trains to become a member of the empire’s elite fighting force, but the intensity of it pits him against his fellow trainees, his friends and himself.
Paired with the way the author chose to describe every single female character’s boobs when introducing them...it felt kind of gross.
In Conclusion:A smart, gritty story set in an interesting world, filled with it’s well-executed plot-twists.
Falls into typical genre pitfalls regarding female characters.
We get to meet Valyn, training for the empire’s Special Forces and having to deal with some co-cadets who like to show him he is not special, despite of his high birth.
The second sibling we meet, and he happens to have become my favorite, is the hair to the throne, young Kaden.
Because, despite being very aware of how much space authors have to give the characters of long series to grow, the two boys drove me insane at times with their less than stellar mind power!!!
[4.5 Stars]That was great! Can't wait to read the sequel!
(It's a doozy of a reveal, and one of Staveley's most original and unexpected ideas--the Kaden plot is what really makes this book sing, IMHO.) Their sister Adare has remained at home in the capital, learning the ins and outs of governance directly from her father.
Valyn's scenes are the most Harry Potter-like in general (although the whole training-to-become-a-warrior-of-the-realm thing is very Lioness Quartet).
All in all, the conclusion does tie up the plot of book one in a satisfying manner, but still does a great job at setting up a sequel (which, let's face it, is a prerequisite of the genre these days, right?).In conclusion, everyone is going to be reading this, or I will eat my hat.
The only reason I picked up and started this book was because I was send a free copy from my friend as he really wanted to see what everybody thought of the book was.
Not knowing anything about the book, and just judging from the cover and the friends I knew who had read the book I expected this to more epic fantasy like Brent Weeks or Sanderson, but was I wrong.
Definitely a great debut, and a book I would recommend to others looking for a great fantasy that has enough of everything to keep the reader's attention of wanting more.
4.5 STARS My faith and my love for this read has been tested. It didn't WOW me from the beginning and I had my doubts and suspicions. There are flaws of course but the read never failed me! And I'm so grateful for that. There is so much more behind the ideas and the concepts in this book. You need a keen eye to see and to feel its depth. You can only start to grasp the whole scale of the read towards the end when you realize there is so much more ahead of our beloved three protagonists, behind
4.5 STARS
My faith and my love for this read has been tested.
There are flaws of course but the read never failed me!
There is so much more behind the ideas and the concepts in this book.
You can only start to grasp the whole scale of the read towards the end when you realize there is so much more ahead of our beloved three protagonists, behind the interesting magic and along with the revealing plots.
And the final third part of the book was 
! I'm looking forward to the next books in this series.
