https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1217881.The_5000_Year_Leap
Nearly every page includes some quote from a Founding Father, the implication being that no author was even needed for this book--the Founders could speak for themselves, as long as someone took the time to collect their scattered statements into something honest and comprehensive.But this is misleading.
The chapters are broken down into the "28 Principles of Freedom our Founding Fathers said must be understood and perpetuated by every people who desire peace, prosperity, and freedom." This is where the author's socially conservative agenda retreats into hiding behind an endless stream of "appeal to authority" fallacies.
A great place to start your study of the ideas of our nation's founders.
This was an eye-opening introduction to what went into creating our government system.
It has been said that we should not try to do what great men did but instead strive to see what they saw.
This book is a great place to start--but must not be where we stop.
(Do we really borrow $300 BILLION per year from China?????) This book provides the wake up call we all need.
Our problems are not just created by the legislators who recklessly spend our money but by the citizenry that demand they do so!
Which is not to say there weren't some ideas that are interesting.
The book helped me understand how much the original intent of a tension between states and the federal government is all but gone.
I do not understand the unquestioning, reverent awe given to founders, and in particular a French guy who travelled around and liked America.
Certainly proper respect should be given to the great thinkers who helped found this nation.
Their ideas should not be easily dismissed, but neither is it the case that if one of them said something it is therefore unquestionably true, for all time.
Most of the remaining principles Skousen cites relate to the importance of restraining the federal government (property rights, individual rights, states rights).
After all the major point of the book is that America is prosperous because the Founders limited the federal government.
So, it would seem that an expansion of the federal government's power should lead to a decrease in prosperity.
Programs like the Tennessee Valley Authority and Rural Electrification helped bring the south into the modern world.The Skousen principles (for they are almost certainly not the Founders') would lead to a Great Leap, but I'm afraid it would be a leap backwards.
worst book ever. seriously. academically and logically flawed from cover to cover, miserably written, and extra creepy when you realize it's just mormonism for the masses. sorry, mormons...don't get me wrong: I loathe and resent all religions...but joseph smith was flippin whacked. And so is this book.
It's well written and really easy to read, which is saying a lot for a book on government.
I just didn't feel like I could trust him.All told, this is a good book if the reader approaches it with the realization that Skousen was not a historian examining the record and trying to learn lessons from it.
He was by training a lawyer and, as such, I think he approached this book knowing the arguments he wanted to make and picking those points from the historical record which supported his argument and either trivializing or altogether ignoring anything that didn't.
This book is soooo good!
It's awesome because it gives you insights on many of the founding fathers opinions while at the same time answering so many questions that arise today.
In the back of my mind I knew it wasn't, but I couldn't have explained why until I read this book.
The Constitution deals with principles, wich are timeless.
It also deals with human nature, and though our way of living may have changed, our nature never will.
Which again is dealing with human nature.
Anyone who is a citizen in the United States of America, and/or who loves freedom, should read this book!
I believe this book is fundamental. We should all be involved in the community and in our country. This book lays out basic true principals believed in by the founding fathers on which we should base our decisions in government.
A must read - especially politicians! They need a refresher course on what made the USA great.
This book does a wonderful job in explaining the remarkable origins and ideas that helped forge this great nation.
(I love how that works!) Around the 4th of July (very timely, I have to say) I picked this book up and just finished it.
I learned more about the origins of the Constitution in this book than I ever did in US History when I was in school, which is a sad thought in and of itself.
The author did a wonderful job in writing this book and in quoting the Founders themselves all throughout this book.

Just read this book again. October 2009. This time I presented principles 11-28 over 6 hours with a youth group. Great learning experience for me.---------------This is a book all Americans need to read. And I hope would appreciate.For me, this is the planting of a seed and the swelling of that seed which will grow, with proper nourishment into a patriotic tree with fruit of freedom and liberty.These 28 points ring true to me. Can you tell? I hope they ring true to you as well.
I felt like this was a very important book.
Being a novice with all things governmental, I felt like I got a great overview to the constitution and its overall importance.
The issuing power of money should be taken from the banks and restored to Congress and the people to whom it belongs.156 A good definition of socialism: government control of all means of production farms factories mines and naatural resources and all means of distribution.Toqueville (what a guy!)84 I sought for the greatness and genius of America in her commodius harbors and her ample rivers, and it was not there; in her fertile fields and boundless prairies...
They that are on their guard, and appear ready to receive their adversaries, are in much less danger of being attacked than the supine, secure and negligent." - Bejamin FranklinOn debt: "But, ah, think what you do when you run in debt; you give to another power over your liberty....as Poor Richard says, the second vice is lying, the first is running in debt." - Benjamin FranklinOn the greatness of America (my favorite): "I sought for the greatness and genius of America in her commodious harbors and her ample rivers and it was not there; in her fertile fields and boundless prairies, and it was not there; in her rich mines and her vast world commerce, and it was not there.
I'm half way through this and wish that we had used this as a text in my Junior history class in high school.
Everyone should read this and become reacquainted with the principles of the Republic and why we were so forutnate that our Founders established the government this way.
Five stars so far....I finished the book and it did not disappoint.
The book clearly spells out why the Consitution is so brilliant and how thoughtful the Founders were in the writing of it.
If I could give this six stars I would.
Cleon SkousenThis remarkable book covers much forgotten or neglected history of our nation's founding, including the Godly and moral principles on which America began.Some of these principles trace back to the ancient Anglo Saxons, who considered themselves a commonwealth of free men and had a tradition of being highly involved in local government.
The book notes that George Washington faced at least sixty-seven different occasions where he felt God's intervention saved Americans in their struggle for independence.James Madison, the father of our Constitution, Ben Franklin and many others felt Americans needed to be a virtuous and moral people in order for our republic to properly work.In the early United States citizens considered community offices as positions of honor rather than a way to enrich or empower themselves.
If you believe in the principles of freedom that America stands for than you will appreciate this book.
So they did their best to set up a system of laws and government to try to put in check the evil designs of men and the weakness’s of human nature.
This book names 28 “principles of freedom” that the founders believed and used to form America.
I don’t have a naive view that these men were perfect but I do believe that they were educated and inspired at the right time in history to bring about this miracle of a nation.
With all the rewriting of history that has been going on since the Social Gospel of the late 1800's became the Progressive movement, a clear outline of the principles that the founders used in the formation of our government has been needed.
Principles, such as the absolute necessity of having a moral people, have been eroded by emotional choices that seemed right at the time.
Equal rights become a thought crime.
Skousen has written a book 30 years before its time.
Today, conservatives are alarmed by these recent power grabs: Government ownership of auto manufactures, banks, and now health care, with more on the way.
The book describes 28 of our founding principles and how they helped our forbears create the most prosperous and free civilization in the history of the world.
The book perfectly illustrates the efficacy of the American philosophy by illustrating how little science, technology, and industry had changed in the 5,000 years prior to America's discovery, and how virtually every facet of human ingenuity and creativity exploded exponentially once the founding principals based on natural law were put in place.
The correct scale to use is anarchy (no government) versus tyranny (total government; e.g., socialism or fascism).
A male friend of mine did a book group at a local library on this book, which intrigued me because 1- he's male and that's usually female territory, and 2- this friend doesn't read a lot.I liked the opening part of the book, before he got to the 28 Great Ideas.
"The 28 Great Ideas behind the Constitution," though, are sort of just his cover for teaching about God and how we need to make sure He's the center of our politics.
He came back into popularity in 2008 when Glenn Beck recommended his works (Skousen died in 2006)(and however you feel about Beck, you have to admit he's extreme right).
The Center for Constitutional Studies has really been pushing for every American to read this book.
It's been kind of a controversial book--some people really pushing for it to be included in public school curriculum, others pushing hard to have it banned.
Anyway, it explores the fundamental principles that our nation was founded on, and how those principles let to more advancement in 150 years than had been accomplished in the 5000 years previously.
I thought it was wonderful--so clear and concise!
It really clarifies what this great nation was founded on and reinforces taht our constitution is REALLY WORTH PROTECTING.
I was amazed at the insight of the founding fathers into the future ~ having no belief in crystal balls I'm convienced of divine guidance in the creation of this country's founding documents. Recommended for all whom are concerned about it's direction.
It was kind of like taking a medicine that tastes bad, and the best way for me to get through it was to read one chapter a day.Don't be discouraged by the emotional hype of the Glenn Beck prologue, which is Beck's usual, "I learned I know everything, and it was disturbing to me, and it should be disturbing to you too junk." Skousen has put together a rigorous historical study of the principles that shaped our Constitution, as well as a strong disciplinary caution to all citizens who have allowed the country to drift from it's moorings.I don't know that I agree with all the principles.
Anyway, I think people should read this book, but they should also read several other accounts of the crafting of the Constitution and the loves and ideas of the Founding Fathers to separate the spin from fact in Skousen's political epistle.(initial July note) This is like scripture (Sometimes too literally) to many of the ultra-conservatives I live with here in Utah Valley.
Skousen can't find many writers that agree with him, so his strategy appears to be to really talk up the ones who do, or he can at least claim they do, and then use the mere fact they wrote something as proof that it is an inherently true idea.
Also, after reading "A People's History of the United States" I figured I should give a fair shot to a book with a less cynical and more forgiving view of our founding fathers.Unfortunately, every word I read was filtered through that Howard Zinn lens.
They knew that as times change, so to would the needs of the country.But the author of this book doesn't seem to understand that (unless he gets into it later on).
I would also HIGHLY suggest that anyone who adores this book pick up Howard Zinn's "A People's History of the United States" and at least read up to the chapters covering the American Revolution.
According to this thoughtful book, we have lost our way in this country, and I agree.
I would go further and say that it should be read by EVERYONE!
Between the Constitution and the Ten Commandments, we have everything we need to know to make every decision in our government and personal lives.
We need only turn on the TV to see how far sideways we have gone and the high price we are paying for it.
Please, do yourself a favor and devour this still-relevant book.
Better yet, read it and then send your copy to a politician.
But, I found serious fault with the book's central premise, that the 'Founding Fathers' (the author uses the term as a single entity) had very specific ideas concerning government and all those ideas apply in today's world.
The Founding Fathers were diverse group of individuals that had very different opinions on how the Constitution should be interpreted and how the government run.
For each principle, the author gives his interpretation, gives a few cherry-picked quotes that supports his view-point and states that the "Founders agreed/believed/thought this".
That we are responsible for protecting the liberties they created for us.This book should be in every home - and should be read by parents - if they have not read it - then read by their children and discussed around the family kitchen table.
It therefore falls to the parents to take up the call and protect our freedoms .
The media in this country is working hard on eroding those freedoms as it is.
The biggest threat to our freedoms today comes from the media and the educational institutions in this country.Hence you are seeing serious push backs at the current Town Hall meeetings and the grass roots spread of the TEA parties.Get the book and read it.
Before you can be guided by this book, you must already believe it's core tenets: Basic Law + Laissez-faire attitudes + Judeo-Christian Believers = Freedom.The 5000 Year Leap is a type of "Founding Father's Quotes for Dummies;" a simplified political science book.
We listen only to those who think like we do.The Founding Fathers are rolling in their graves.Side note: I met Cleon Skousen in 1991 at a "Freedom Academy" where he was sharing his wares with high-schoolers.
Because of that, I don't agree that this is a book that every high school or college student should read.
No one should graduate high school without a clear understanding of the principles of this government and of the constitution.
We need an educated public that knows how to vote in a way that protects our freedoms.
The entire purpose was to create a voting public that knew about the founding fathers, the constitution, and the great political thinkers of the time and the past.
I appreciated the food for thought and now I know a bit more about Skousen ;)
