https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15241.The_Two_Towers
I’ve read most of his works, so I’m starting with those first before I move on to the few I haven’t read (there’s not many).This is all preparation, and a readdress of his writings, before I delve into Christopher Tolkien’s twelve book The History of Middle-Earth later on this year.
For now though, as I did with my review for The Fellowship of the Ring, here are a series of ten points to explain exactly why I love this particular book: 1.
The Riders of Rohan are awesome, and Gandalf the White comes just in time to save the poisoned mind of their King.
The hope for saving Middle-Earth continues!  THE FELLOWSHIP IS BROKEN   There is some good in this world, and it's worth fighting for. So much for the fellowship made of representative of the races of good in the Middle-Earth with the task of destroying The One Ring in the hellish fires of Mount Doom, located right inside of Sauron’s domains.Members fell, member got tempted by The One Ring, members got trapped, the journey now has two roads and it’s not certain which way is the right one. Maybe
Yes, the powerful wizard of Isengard wants The One Ring BUT not for giving to the Dark Lord or Mordor, oh no, no, no, Saruman knows that who gets The One Ring will rule in the Middle-Earth and since he is already one of the most powerful beings in that realm, it’s only logical to get The One Ring and with that key advantage, he will be able not only to challenge the armies of men, dwarves and elves but also the dark forces of Sauron.I have huge respect for the good King Théoden, BUT dang it!
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend.
I've never tried to destroy someone who cared more about their hair!General Zod: Can anyone help me!!??Agent Smith: Shut the hell up windowboy!Sauron: Thank you.
Can anyone stop this light bulb from saying that every week!Moby Dick: ArrrrrrrrrrrrrrrhhhhhhhuuuuuuuuuuuuflllllllllllllllllllAgent Smith: Jesus, now the whale is talking.Randall Flagg: Let…Sauron…talk.[silence]Sauron: If I may continue.
Every time I looked at his multi-coloured eyes I wanted to puke.General Zod: That was pretty dumb.Khan: [shouts] THIS IS CETI ALPHA FIVE!Sauron: OooooK.
These days Saruman would have just texted me something like, "Yo, Sauron, we may have an issue." Instead his ass is whooped by trees.
Book Review  For as long as I can remember, I have loved serial fiction and saga stories. The Lord of the Rings trilogy and associated books by J.R.R. Tolkien are a treasure. I first found the books when I was 14 and had to re-read again when the movies came out in the last decade or so. The second book, The Two Towers, was a worth follow-up, enhancing every original love I had with the story. I'm generally not a fan of the fantasy genre, and have only read perhaps 20 books in total, less than
I first found the books when I was 14 and had to re-read again when the movies came out in the last decade or so.
The second book, The Two Towers, was a worth follow-up, enhancing every original love I had with the story.
But this one started out as a set of books, which makes it even more fantastic...For me, although I loved all three in the series, the middle one was the least favorite, but they were all still 4+.
It's a challenge to decide which part of the story to love most.If you've not read the series, it's probably 2000 pages in its entirety.
It is preceded by The Fellowship of the Ring and followed by The Return of the King.کتاب نخست: یاران حلقه؛ کتاب دوم: دوبرج؛ کتاب سوم: بازگشت شاه؛عنوانها: خداوندگار حلقه ها؛ فرمانروای حلقه ها؛ ارباب حلقه ها؛ سالار انگشتریها؛ نویسنده: جی.آر.آر.
تالکین؛ مترجم: ماه منیر فتحی؛ تبریز، فروغ آزادی، 1381، در سه جلد؛ عنوان جلد نخست: دوستی انگشتری؛ جلد دوم: دوتا برج؛ جلد سوم: بازگشت پادشاه؛ شابک دوره: ایکس - 964697130؛ عنوان: فرمانروای حلقه ها؛ نویسنده: نویسنده: جی.آر.آر.
تالکین؛ مترجم: رضا علیزاده؛ تهران، روزنه 1381؛ در سه جلد؛ عنوان دیگر: ارباب حلقه ها؛بخش نخست: یاران حلقه؛ بخش دوم: دو برج؛ بخش سوم: بازگشت شاه؛ چاپ ششم 1391؛ شابک: جلد نخست: 9789643343224؛ عنوان: ارباب حلقه ها؛ نویسنده: نویسنده: جی.آر.آر.
Herewith Some Notes On My Inaugural Journey Through The Second Volume Of Tolkien's The Lord Of The Rings Me after staying up all night reading The Two TowersI liked  The Fellowship Of The Ring , but this book made me love Tolkien’s Middle-Earth epic. Some of the writing is astonishing (see quotes below). The author handles various storylines – the fellowship has scattered, after all – gracefully. And after having two of its main characters (and their slimy guide) spend a lot of time climbing up
(Now that I’m in partway through The Return Of The King, I think Tolkien’s battle-writing skills improved for the Minas Tirith fight.) Re: Helm’s Deep: Peter Jackson was smart to end the film with it.• Monologues.
(People weren’t as distracted by things like social media back then.)• Shadowfax: I’m not even a horse lover, and I kinda fell in love with the gorgeous, noble steed, the pride of Rohan.• It took some major cajones to go 200 pages without dealing with Sam and Frodo.
The second act of the classic Lord Of The Rings saga is divided into two halves; the second half focussing on Frodo, Sam and Gollum and the first half focussing on the rest of the divided fellowship.To be honest, I love this book so much, it's virtually impossible for me to write a balanced review. If you're also a fan, you know exactly what I mean, so I'll leave it there. :-DBuddy read with Sunshine Seaspray.-----------------------------------------------Re-read in 2017: If anything, I love it more than ever now. :-D
With a universal theme like that, the non-stop action, the memorable characters, the extricate design of the fictional world, Middle-Earth and the lyrical prose, Tolkien wrote a book that will outlive all of us here on earth.The story begins with the four hobbits separated into two, Frodo and Sam who will later meet Gollum on their way to Mordor and Merry and Pippin lost in Fangorn and later meeting the Treebeard and the rest of the Ents.
He is killed by the Orcs after his attempt to steal the ring from Frodo and Sam. If Book 1 was mostly about the four hobbits, in this Book 2, Tolkien put them on a sideline and the focus here is the Fellowship fighting the Orcs.
The struggle with Saruman and the Battle at Helms Deep is a great primer for things to come.
All of these things and more are sometimes forgotten when comparing the quality of the three books side by side.
And of course the final book is the satisfying pay off with the added bonus of all those info-laden appendixes, great for the hearty fan.The Two Towers may not get its due, but it is a fine book.
Will they come out on top?*Smacks face with book and cries out "I LOVE YOU"*This is one of the greatest novels that I have ever read.
The writing did make me sleepy, which caused me to only read two chapters at a time.
I will say this again that Tolkien has an amazing imagination, and he made an entrancing world for his characters.
It still amazes me.I love all the companions.
I love Sam and Frodo's relationship.
I love the Ents.
I started thinking about natural selection and what traits were being passed down to the races.
First, and I guess this comes from first being exposed to Tolkien at age 10, I had somehow managed to block out the fact that Frodo is obviously gay.
The other thing, which I think I saw before without really seeing it, is the extent to which the bearers of the Three Rings - Elrond, Galadriel and Gandalf - are controlling the action.
Their thoughts are always on Frodo, guiding and helping him, and they can see far, both in space and in time.
On several occasions, when Frodo is on the point of succumbing to the power of the Ring, Gandalf is able to rescue him.
I'm one of very few people in the world that actually really hate the Lord of the Rings trilogy, and 'The Hobbit' as well.
I've read 'The Hobbit' twice, trying to capture the second time what I was sure I must have missed the first time round...
And then I read The Fellowship of the Ring and found Frodo's story to be as drab and long-winded as that of Bilbo.
I would have stopped there but my friends told me that I should definitely read this book, promising me great adventure and well-written fantasy worlds.
Really, what am I missing?
I love only that which they defend.”This second installment (or the middle of the book to be more correct) is phenomenal.
As with every great fantasy book that I read I find myself unable to pick just one favorite character - instead I have a small army of favorite characters.
Which brings me once again to Tolkien's tremendous love for nature and the environment - it is one of the very prominent themes of the book, and one that fills my heart with joy.
Because if you read the book you know how much it says about the person if they aren't even tempted.
Aquí es cuando la comunidad comienza a tener problemas: caen en trampas, tienen riesgo de morir, y están forzados a sacar sus mejores habilidades de supervivencia.Aparte de todo esto, es cuando los personajes comienzan a crear lazos de amistad...
unos más que otros (lo que es normal), pero aquí es cuando ya se arma todo el equipo y, por lo menos yo, comienzo a tomar cariño a los personajes.Es bastante hilarante imaginarse cómo va cambiando Gandalf, cómo Gollum tiene cada vez más protagonismo en el libro, y cómo se va desarrollando a través de la historia.¡Uf!
Esa es la magia de leer: crear tus propias escenas mientras vas leyendo una historia.
For as long as there will be readers, I am sure these books will survive.When I picked up this series, I bought the box set mostly on an impulse, despite almost DNF’ing my first venture with Tolkien in form of The Hobbit.
Another letdown, small one again and yet, still there.But the one thing that really put a dent in this book for me personally is this.Frodo and Sam, the whole thing, is based on friendship.
In this book, I can’t count how many times, in the narrative, Tolkien refers to Sam as Frodo’s servant.
جان رونالد روئل تالکین، در جبهه های جنگ جهانی اول در فرانسه شرکت کرد، در نبرد "سُم" که بیش از یک میلیون نفر در آن کشته و زخمی شدند.
و بنا به گفته ی خودش هیچ یک از دوستانش از آن نبرد زنده برنگشتند.تالکین به علت ابتلا به تب خندق، بیماری ای که بین سربازان جنگ جهانی اول که در خندق ها کمین گرفته بودند شیوع پیدا کرده بود، از خدمت مرخص شد و به انگلستان بازگشت.
All of his actions are the same but we get the internal workings of his mind in the book, which we, unfortunately, did not get in the movies, so he comes across as intelligent and mature in the books and .
well I'll just say he comes across as a more deserving ring bearer in the books.
Sam pretending to be his future kids asking to hear more about Frodo, and Frodo jumping right into the role of another child wanting to hear more about Sam. It was just a really cute human moment that made me love the characters even more.
It doesn't help that my professor gets so off track during class that we never actually discuss what we've read, so I don't have any incentive to read what we've been assigned.
This series is definitely something I want to revisit in the future when I'm not skim-reading it out of a 10-pound series bindup and I don't have to read the entire series in 4 weeks.
I wanted to love this, but reading it was unbearable because of the size and page requirements, so hopefully when I reread this one day from the box set I already own, I will enjoy it and see its merit enough to rate it higher.
پریا از دو برج شروع کرد، و همینطور که از کلمه به کلمه ی کتاب لذت می برد، بعضی قسمت ها را برای من هم می خواند.
طبیعتاً عاشق لگولاس بود -مثل من- و معمولاً قسمت های مربوط به لگولاس برای خوانده شدن انتخاب می شدند: یک بار از رو می خواند، یک بار با شوق تکرار می کرد، بعد می خندیدم و دوباره می خواندیم.
خواندن مجدد دو برج بعد از پانزده، شانزده سال، برایم دو لذت داشت: اول لذت خواندن خود کتاب و دوم مرور خاطرات دوران راهنمایی و دوستی با پریا.
Anyway, the Ents also go to war with poor beleaguered Saruman who nobody seems to respect anymore, and is probably under investigation by the FBI.The second half of the book is all about the Terrific Trio of Frodo, Samwise and “Obsessed much?” Gollum, AKA Sméagol.
I'm not talking about the Dragnet version of Pagan; I mean the earth religion, the ancient one, before my own religion oppressed them and categorized them with an evil entity they didn't even believe in.I also experienced some personal revelations for my life, and a glimpse of the spiritual nature of the book, and of Tolkien.
In the book, Sam holds up the Phial of Galdriel against Shelob: "And then his tongue was loosed and his voice cried in a language which he did not know...." That describes the biblical and experiential gift of tongues, to me.I felt the time spent with Faramir paced slow and dragged on; my thoughts threatened to wander, but it provides a backdrop for the rest of the masterpiece.Frodo felt a coldness in his arm spreading to his heart when the Rider flew over him.
AUDIO REREAD #2 Actual reread probably #62018 Reading Challenge: book made into a movie I’ve already seenI want to start a list of every book that includes a "Dark Lord"Wormtongue vs Worm TailI can't help it. Every time Sam says " master! Master!" I break into Master of PuppetsWhat is it about companions on a journey to conquer evil that strikes the heart of us readers?I totally forgot about the abrupt ending!!! I'm never prepared for that. I feel like Towers is a bridge book, but it sets the stage for Return brilliantly.Audiobook #22412/3/18 holiday reread for the 1,000 time
“The world is indeed full of peril, and in it there are many dark places; but still there is much that is fair, and though in all lands love is now mingled with grief, it grows perhaps the greater.” The quote above is just one reason to get yourself to read this. This was the second part in one of the most-beloved series of every fantasy lover. If you're a person who loves a good adventure, with twists, surprises, great characters, fun & drama then you cannot continue living on this earth w
If you're a person who loves a good adventure, with twists, surprises, great characters, fun & drama then you cannot continue living on this earth without reading this piece of dream.It explores the dark & full of wonders world that is Middle-Earth.
Our characters never lose their hope, they are endlessly brave and courageous.
“War must be, while we defend our lives against a destroyer who would devour all; but I do not love the bright sword for its sharpness, nor the arrow for its swiftness, nor the warrior for his glory.
I love only that which they defend.”
“War must be, while we defend our lives against a destroyer who would devour all; but I do not love the bright sword for its sharpness, nor the arrow for its swiftness, nor the warrior for his glory. I love only that which they defend.”   4 Stars Sooooo I originally said I’d have this review up on the day that I finished it. And I basically did. But like I typed up literally 75% of what was a decently long review, all nicely formatted, only to have my computer glitch out on me, and I lost it
In book one, Tolkien lays the foundation and the floor plan for the entire story, and by the end of the book you get a really good idea of where you’re headed for the remainder of the series.
Once again, my enjoyment of this book was more or less split down the middle, because I love Gandalf, Aragorn, Gimli, and Legolas.
I think he actually might be my favorite character in the series, because even though you’re not supposed to like him, at least he’s interesting to learn about.
There’s enough good here to really get yourself engrossed in the story, which is exactly what I want when I’m reading a fantasy book.
As this is my third reread of this book, so I'm not going to write a long-winded review, as I think I've said most of what needs to be said about this book in a previous review. This book is still as amazingly beautiful, as the first time I read it. The only thing I am certain of, is that Tolkien's works never tire in your mind, and they somehow become even better, each time you read them. I just love this trilogy.
Quickie review: -This book contains my favorite non-fellowship character: Faramir.
His family situation is dealt with more in the next book, but the fact that he turned out so good and fair, as shown in this book, makes me just love him.
Compared to the movie, where Merry and Pippin basically have to manipulate the Ents into going to war against Saruman, the Ents decide all on their own, and pretty quickly too.
Helms Deep and Isengard were such small potato battles in this book.
The movies definitely do them better justice, though it would have been awesome if they'd kept the Huorns in.
:DI do love this book though.
Even darkness must pass."The second volume in The Lord of the Rings, The Two Towers focuses on the disintegration of the Fellowship, as Frodo and Sam go off on their separate journey towards Mordor whilst Merry and Pippin are taken captive by some Orcs.
Meanwhile, Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli decide that they will attempt to pursue and rescue Merry and Pippin.As a child, The Two Towers was always my favourite movie, and I think I used to say it was my favourite book too, but as I've gotten older my favourite movie is now The Return of the King.
Before I get to my favourite phrases from Book 4 and 5 or ‘The Two Towers’, a few lines about the story so far:A company comprising men (Aragorn, Boromir), elf (Legolas), dwarf (Gimli), wizard (Gandalf) and hobbits (Frodo, Sam, Pippin, Merry) has started from Rivendell for Mordor with one purpose in mind: to destroy the dark lord Sauron’s ring.
Sit on the grass and wait for the Whiteskins to join the picnic?'*There might be all the difference between an old cow sitting and thoughtfully chewing, and a bull charging; and the change might come suddenly.*'We have journeyed a long way round,’ said Legolas.
I'm not sure why it took me so long to finally pick up Tolkien's The Lord of the Rings; I love fantasy and this is such a godfather read in that genre, as with its sub-genres.
I figured this was as good a time as any to pack some provisions and start walking my way through The Lord of the Rings, that I could always double back and read/reread books should I want to so I didn't need to be overly concerned with the order of any book besides the trilogy itself.
