https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7936809-the-reversal
The Reversal, though is almost as much of a Harry Bosch novel as it is a Mickey Haller.As the book opens, Haller gets an unusual offer from the L.A. County District Attorney who wants Haller to join the team as an independent prosecutor for the purpose of retrying a convicted child killer who has been granted a new trial after a successful appeal.
As his investigator, Mickey selects his half-brother, Harry Bosch.
Still, this is a very entertaining book and Connelly fans will not be disappointed.
A SINGING TELEGRAM FROM ME TO MICHAEL CONNELLYNobody does it better,Makes me forget all the rest, Nobody does it half as good as you, Baby you're the best...Every time I'm disappointed by some other author in the genre, it just makes me appreciate Connelly's skills all the more.
Stayed up till 2:00 a.m. No one else can make me focus like that.This book is a Mickey Haller/Harry Bosch hybrid.
It takes place several months after the events in Nine Dragons.
If you are a fan of the Harry Bosch series and you hate spoilers, do not read The Reversal until you've read Nine Dragons.
It's as if the author was driving his car along on a pleasant Sunday outing, didn't watch where he was going, and drove off a cliff mid-drive.
Up until then, I enjoyed the book as a midrange outing for this author.
I like it that Bosch and Mickey are awkwardly working their way to a relationship, and how they have many unconscious characteristics in common.
I have to admit, I got tired of the scenes of voir dire, although I liked how Mickey was hoist on his own petard.
I like the daughters of both men, and how Bosch struggles with being a father.
I somehow cannot get to like Mickey Haller and I really do not enjoy court scenes so I probably should have left this book out of my reading of the Harry Bosch series.
On the other hand there is always the worry that I might miss a bit of Harry so read it I did.And I did enjoy the Harry Bosch chapters and the parts where he interacted with Mickey and Maggie.
That's just me - reviewers who enjoy this kind of thing report that it was really good.
Reviewers who like Mickey Haller report that he was good too.
A tale of Haller and Bosch together again, handled with the usual consummate professionalism we expect from Connelly--the only difference being that defense lawyer Haller is working as a special prosecutor this time. Still nothing special, though.
EXCERPT: Jason Jessup was a convicted child killer who had spent nearly twenty-four years in prison until a month earlier when the California Supreme Court reversed his conviction and sent the case back to Los Angeles County for either retrial or a dismissal of the charges.
The state's Supreme Court cited the DNA findings and other inconsistencies in the evidence and trial record and reversed the case.This was pretty much the extent of my knowledge of the Jessup case, and it was largely information gathered from newspaper stories and courthouse scuttlebutt.
After 24 years in prison, convicted killer Jason Jessup has been exonerated by new DNA evidence.
He agrees but with two conditions: Maggie McPherson is his second chair and Harry Bosch is assigned as investigator.
This was headed to a 5-star rating until I reached the end.
Everything about this case was interesting and compelling, including the dynamics of Mickey, Harry and Maggie working as a team.
The courtroom antics had lots of flavor and Harry's investigation just added lots more spice.
(Enough with the food references!)Peter Giles was masterful in narration performance, effectively giving separate and distinctive voice to not only Mickey, Harry and Maggie but all the other major players.
4.5 stars
The book never settled into a consistent tone as a result.I also noticed that for a 400 page novel, the characterization of Haller and Bosch was minimal, and much of the focus - way too much, was on the trial.Red also noticed that several alluring plot points were raised and then pretty much discarded.
Instead I got an ending that came jarringly out of nowhere, moving the plot in 90 degree angle and bringing the book to a screeching halt.Red hated the ending of this book.
It was a shocking way to treat the reader and the lack of meaningful resolution, the lack of paying off on any of the vaguely interesting plot points really sucks.
4.5/5 stars (9/10)This was another excellent entry in the Harry Bosch Universe.
I loved it that Mickey and Harry sort-of shared top dog, although it was really more from Mickey's viewpoint than Harry's.
I seriously doubt that's the direction Connelly is going, but it was fun to read about Mickey's petty jealousy in that regard...really makes him more human and less "sleazy." The only thing that kept me from giving this 5 stars (because seriously, Connelly is a masterful writer!) is the ending.
Although Harry driving off into the sunset chasing a lead is always how I picture him.
4 stars
that's it.... I want a ticket to nowhere.... Wayne ShorterLongtime LAPD Detective Harry Bosch assists half-brother Mickey Haller, a successful criminal defense attorney (aka, the Lincoln Lawyer), after Haller is appointed special prosecutor of Jason Jessup, convicted of a brutal child murder 24 years ago but recently released based on new DNA evidence.This novel combines two of crime writer Michael Connelly's* main characters. Over 16 novels prior to this one, Connelly has ingeniously developed
Wayne ShorterLongtime LAPD Detective Harry Bosch assists half-brother Mickey Haller, a successful criminal defense attorney (aka, the Lincoln Lawyer), after Haller is appointed special prosecutor of Jason Jessup, convicted of a brutal child murder 24 years ago but recently released based on new DNA evidence.This novel combines two of crime writer Michael Connelly's* main characters.
Over 16 novels prior to this one, Connelly has ingeniously developed Bosch as a walking ball of internal fire.
I love a good legal thriller and the Mickey Haller books have been some of my favourites.
Add in the addition of his half-brother, Harry Bosch and this story had me hooked.
This was another fantastic story, and I loved the scenes in the courtroom.
I enjoyed seeing Haller working for the prosecution, and also his ex-wife being on the same team as well and working with Bosch.
The ending might have been written with a film in mind because it was very Hollywood blockbuster-ish but it was another thrilling finish to a story and I can’t wait to meet Mickey Haller again.
And the ending with Bosch determined to find out the truth.Haller is called upon by the DA's office to prosecute a retrial of a man who was accused of abducting and murdering a young child.
It's going to be up to Haller and Bosch to run down some witnesses and determine if Jessup is the killer they think he is.
But, I have to say that the book surprised me in a good way.
The book is weird though since Connelly chooses to tell Haller's POV in the first person and Bosch's POV is in the third person.
March 2010Retrial of Jessup a child murderer who abducted and killed a young 12 years old Mel 26 years ago.
He spent it in jail but a DNA examination of semen found on dress came back negative to him and positive for another person.
The supreme courts reversed its decision and ordered a new trial ....
Mike Haller the famous Lincoln Lawyer is crossing the aisle and becoming a special prosecutor to prosecute Jessup and not to defend him ...
his first time crossing the line and he could be enjoying speaking in the name of the people.
You cook a gallon of good soup.
You and your family eat half a gallon one day, and then to prolong the culinary feat, you add half a gallon of water to the remaining soup, and have half a gallon of it the next day.
"The Reversal" is a sequel to Michael Connelly's "The Lincoln Lawyer", which is a very good book.
Alas, "The Reversal" is not a good book.
It is mostly water, not much soup.
In "The Reversal" they are just empty vessels, paper agents to move the plot.
The publisher's blurb says "Written with the depth, pace, and insight…".
This is the first of Mickey Haller books where Harry Bosch plays a major part.
The book takes place partly in a courtroom with Mickey and partly out in the field with Harry.
You are never sure what Jason Jessup, the would be villain of the book, is up to.
A times he looks blacker than black and then there are time when you wonder if Mickey and Harry are barking up the wrong tree.The one thing that you are left in doubt about is how crazy the judicial system is in America.
Mickey Haller & Harry Bosch team up in this one & even Rachel Walling shows up a few times.
Still a good listen, but not one of the best.This is part of the Harry Bosch Universe, #21 by my count which differs from the GR count slightly.
I updated it during this read & it now includes links to all the books, including those where the short stories can be found.
I liked The Lincoln Lawyer a little better, I think, but this story is a nifty pairing of the Haller and Bosch team. The courtroom scenes are top notch, the pace is fast, and the dialogue sharp. Very entertaining, especially once the story got some traction. I really should read more of Michael Connelly novels.
Or how about when you've got a DVR full of shows and a ton of great football choices to watch and instead you'd rather be reading that book?Or the biggest indicator of all--when you can't wait to turn each page but once you get to the end you kick yourself for reading it too quickly and now you have to wait for the next book?The good news is that since the book was "The Reversal" and it's by Michael Connelly the wait won't be as long as some other writers.
With Haller and Bosch, Connelly has a great team and one that I've really enjoyed getting to see work together on the printed page.
The Reversal features defense attorney Haller crossing the courtroom aisle to work as the prosecutor along side his ex-wife.
He brings Bosch in as an investigator on a case in which the accused has already served 24 years after having been found guilty of the murder of a 12 year old girl.
The combination of Haller & Bosch allows readers a front row seat to the courtroom shenanigans and manipulations by lawyers from both sides of the aisle as well as the meticulous investigations that go into building a case.
The Reversal is another in a long line of stunning works of art by Connelly.
one of the best of Connelly. pure delight
A solid legal thriller, with Mickey Haller and Bosch combining forces to try and take down a child-killer. Slightly clunky alternating chapters, with Haller in first person, and Bosch in third. Found Mickey Haller annoying, as in his other books, but this was better than my last Connelly read (The Black Box).
Early Connelly, when he labored over his prose and his books were dense and meaty and good, lasted probably up through about Angel's Flight.
While the novels still move like runaway trains, there is some loss of complexity and depth, sacrificed to bring the books more in line with a kind of James Pattersonesque robo-prose.
And then this latest phase, probably covering the last five or so of Connelly's novels, is one in which even the plots are growing simple and streamlined to the point that I wonder why I keep reading.
I like the book and I recommend it...but start with the first Haller book, the guy stays pretty true during the whole story and his moving to the prosecutor's chair will carry a little more weight.Of late I've gone on sort of a Michael Connelly reading marathon.
I tried the first harry Bosch book and really didn't get into it, but now I'm well into The Poet the first Jack McEvoy book (I've already read the second) but I find it's a sequel to The Narrows so I'm laying it aside and reading The Narrows first.You who are already Michael Connelly fans....well i guess I'm joining your ranks.
The Narrows is another (though later) Harry Bosch book.
Maggie McFierce second chair and a retrail no one wants to touch.6/23/18 updated reviewIt is hard not to love a Michael Connelly book and when it is a Lincoln Lawyer | Bosch mash- up it should be even better right?
The author didn't make this a book about Mickey with Bosch on the side, or a book about Harry with a bit of Haller instead he just split it up with alternating chapters taking alternating narrators ergo if you aren't a BIG fan of the series you might be confused.
This is the second Connelly book in a row that I have given five stars.
Occasionally there are books that include lead characters from a couple of books working together.
This is a court room drama with three stars working together.
It is a stunning book that I experienced in the audible format.
It has some of the usual social issues that will make you wonder about the status of our society including lot enforcement intentionally telling a person they do not believe has the right to life and justice because of his antisocial and criminal behavior that might not be punished by the law full system.
The Reversal by Michael Connelly i s the 16th book in the Harry Bosch series and the 4th book featuring Micky Haller. Defence attorney Micky Haller is asked to prosecute a convicted child killer who had recently had his conviction reversed due to new evidence. He takes the case with his e-wife prosecuter Maggie McPherson as co-counsel and Harry Bosch as his lead investigator. Another fast paced, page-turning book, let down a little by the ending which seemed to leave a few unanswered questions. I like that various characters from the past books came together. Very entertaining and captivating.
Skipped this one. Try to change my mind, if you wish.I have learned that "collaborations" with Bosch as a secondary character leave me dissatisfied.Moving on to "The Drop"
Schwächster Teil der Reihe, der Versuch seinen beiden Helden Bosch und Haller gleich viel Anteil am Wiederaufnahmeprozesses eines Mordfalles einzuräumen, kostet so viel Zeit, dass am Ende kein Platz für eine sinnvolle Auflösung bleibt. Dass sich die beiden Halbbrüder die Hälfte der Zeit auch noch als Väter Sorgen machen, dass der Angeklagte bei seinen nächtlichen Ausflügen ihre Mädels entführen und in sein Lustmörderversteck einkerkern könnte, macht die Sache auch nicht besser, zumal zu viel zu schlecht motiviert ist.Das Buch besteht praktisch nur aus Füllermaterial. Glatte Zeitverschwendung auch im HInblick auf Querverbindungen zu anderen Fällen/Romanan.
The chase was over and the case was about to morph from the relentless momentum of the investigation to the measured pace of the prosecution.This is why we read Connelly, this kind of observation that gives us the sense that we're a part of the murder investigation Harry Bosch is currently on.
The fact that the three of them share two daughters adds a serious degree of personal urgency to the investigation and make it a seriously family affair.Good plotting, good characters, a villain who should never be taken at face value, and courtroom scenes like this one"I want jury selection completed by the end of the day Friday.
