https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1074893.The_Frontier_in_American_History
Turner may be flawed and, yes, seriously overrated.
However, his essays on the frontier are pivotal in understanding the evolution of both the field of history and of the American identity in general.
The Frontier Thesis is one of the first manifests of the idea of American Exceptionalism.
He is also one of the first to consider the environment and geographical sectionalism as a characterizing force.
Understanding Turner is the first step in understanding many works of history and understanding the path of American society.
Turner relates the histories of the American frontiers (from the thirteen colonies to the settling of what he calls the Middle West (or what we call, today, the American Midwest)) and describes the populations settling, national and local economy and politics of, and the resulting reasons for each frontier.
The book is not large but he refers (at least for my knowledge of American history) to just enough contemporaries of their historic times: American thinkers, popular personalities, political parties or movements, and more whom I did not know, that I was glad to always have my computer handy as I read.
A seminal work in American historical research, Turner's view is controversial today.
It certainly was affirmed by the vast majority of Americans when initially published - but we're in the "America has problems" era where all that has passed is subject to second-guessing.
Turner's view is easily defended by one's own experience and the experience of the country.
Turner only verifies this feeling through research.
Those who denigrate Turner's thesis see nothing special in America from any other country - the frontier has had no effect on it.
It was a collection of essays about how the expansion of the United States pre-20th century was not merely a result of history but was responsible for much of the development of US history.
It sounded like a book that could be interesting, but I found none of the individual essays compelling and the collection itself presented no consistent theme other than the frontier gradually moved west.
Also, there was nothing in this book that made me stop reading to consider what I had just read, which I feel is important for a book presenting itself as a new way to consider US history.I would not recommend this book.
Anyone who has studied American history has heard of Frederick Jackson Turner and his Frontier Thesis. As a retired historian of sorts, I decided it was time to see what he actually said. (Caution: He said it in that somewhat overblown late 19th century style.) The essays, or more correctly addresses to various historical groups, has quite a lot to say about the development of America -- and Americans. Influential in its time and still now as well as interesting if a bit ponderous.
Yes, Turner's America consists of white men being manly and doing manly things. But his perspective has given Western historians something to fight over for about a century. His collection of essay really gave rise not only to Western history itself but to the importance of geography and environmental histories, and to post-structuralist histories of nostalgia and storytelling) to which modern historians owe a debt. (Dropping the serious face now).
This really should be read by all serious students of history; specifically anyone with an interest in America and the West. Turner's work is still absolutely relevant, as the world adjusts to having nowhere to go.
THE go-to classic of the history of the westward movement of the American frontier during the 19th century.
With all of its flaws, it is mpossible to teach manifest destiny and westward expansion in American History without teaching this essay.
This is an important historical work. I am amazed I waited so long to read. It answers many important questions such why individualism is rampant in the United States. It describes in detail why democracy is so important. The critics abound mainly attacking him for his cursory inclusion of slavery and his pro-US leanings. I think his work is a place to start, but an important place to start to why so many citizens do not trust government.
Unable get into this bookAs stated above, tried many of the 22 books.Unlike others I have read, it was very difficult to get the stories moving.
The "this person came from the North/South" question played into politics as a truly important factor, and his discussion of it reads like current discussion of red states and blue states.I enjoy reading "current events" commentary from the past, particularly informed by history as this is, because it gives you such a sense of how real and pressing the old arguments were to the people living them.
Turner's thesis in "The Significance of the Frontier in American History" that America(meaning the United States of America) has generally understood itself in relation to its boundaries has become so commonplace in the background of US historical writings following its original publication that one gets the feeling that he/she has read this title essay many times before, as opposed to not at all.
Turner was an historian in love with his details so his essays on how, when & where immigrants moved about upon arriving in the United States is still quite informative, if not dated.
The reaction of new western historians to this piece in the later half of the 20th-century are also largely the reason that "frontier" has become something of a dirty word in most history circles.That said, the Frontier thesis is a foundational text for any student of the American West.
It's required reading for all Western historians (maybe all historians), if for no other reason than we need to know what he was saying to continue to refute it.
Enjoyed parts of this book much more than others -- probably because I feel more personally involved with the history of the Ohio Valley and the mid-west. Turner's outlook and style are dated but therefore historically interesting look at how the development of the American frontier was viewed a hundred years ago. I will be revisiting this book at a later date.
This essay was presented to advance the theory on how the idea of the frontier shaped the American culture. It reads like a bad textbook, and it seems like the author had already concluded that his theory was correct. Doesn't include the opposition, which figures that there are so many different factors that influenced American culture.
Turner's famous frontier hypothesis is enticing but ultimately not congruent with facts on the ground. Industrialization and immigration were more important in the development of the US. Still it is a gripping story, the settling of the frontier and it did have an impact on the American character for good and for ill.
Had to read this fascinating analysis of the American western frontier for a university class. Turner offers readers a view into the economics that helped shape the American west. Excellent read for anyone who is interested in history, economics, or how America became a great nation that spans from the east coast to the west coast.
Lots of dispute then and now about Turner's fairly simple idea how people living in America became Americans and so radically different from the old country [what ever that was] folk and not a lot to be said for it as far as I can tell. But then we are all beneficiaries and victims of our times. It is a dull read, essays and lectures, which managed to be very unexciting stuff.
I'm not a huge history buff, so this didn't really grab me the way it might grab others. However, it was definitely an interesting look into how the areas outside of the original colonies made their impact on not only American history but the American spirit.
Turner writes a revisionist history of the moving western frontier in American history. He starts with the fringes of the original thirteen colonies and puts his spin on America's westward expansion.
though there is much to critique!
Horrible
Eloquent but lacking in substance. The most overrated (he is mentioned in many high school text books) American historian?
it is so nice.
I did not realize this book would have so much to say about the role of the American university in shaping the frontier.
