https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/100344.Protector
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Hyperspace Shunt: "Protector" by Larry Niven(Original Review, 1980-07-29)Some apparent anomalies in Niven's "Protector".I am reasonably comfortable with Larry Niven's "Known Space" universe, however I have just finished rereading "Protector" for the umpteenth time and I am somewhat disturbed by the apparent incompatibility with other "Known Space" stories.
Niven does it in a little over 200 pages.
But still…The saga of Brennan the Belter and Phssthpok the Pak seems to enjoy a bit of cult status, and it’s easy to see why.
It also gets fairly technical, with what was probably at the time the oddest space warfare tactics in Science Fiction.
It's a true science-y SF classic.
The explosion at the Galactic Core, a plot event featured in many of Niven’s Known Space novels, is also mentioned here.
Plus, if you have read the Ringworld novels you will be no stranger to the Pak Protectors.
Niven covers a lot of logical & moral ground in this book.
Sometimes the answer was no, other times, as much as I hated it, the answer was yes.There are tantalizing overviews of other issues he covers more thoroughly in other books, like the cycles of law to keep the organ banks full or the problems of 'drug' addiction.
These issues are covered in more detail in The Long Arm of Gil Hamilton, 3 short stories, I believe, & some other books & stories.With all this philosophizing, the action & mystery never stopped or even slowed down.
Description was perfect; sparse enough not to slow things down, but rich enough to let my mind see the world.
It turns out that human beings aren't actually from Earth after all; we are originally colonists from another planet a long way from here.
Breeders, as the name suggests, are only interested in having sex, and are not very smart.
on Earth, people never turn into Protectors!
When they reach 40 or so, their bodies undergo certain changes, and they have a strange feeling that there is something superlatively important that they should be doing, but that's it.Luckily, a Protector from the home planet has discovered the truth about the lost colony, and has also figured out how to solve the problem.
Further proof, if it were needed, that Niven is the king of creating interesting, believable, yet totally alien aliens.Take all the features of human senescence: wrinkled, leathery skin, teeth and hair falling out, heart failure, joints swollen from over-use.
Now imagine that all of these features are signs not of a body breaking down, but the beginnings of a third-stage of human development: the super-strong, hyperintelligent "protector" stage.The frailties of old age become the strengths of a "protector." Wrinkled, leathery skin grows tough beyond compare--an armored hide.
And the hormonal urge to protect your bloodline means that your goals are in effect chosen for you, too.
3.5 stars. Great book by one of the masters of Hard SF "storytelling." This is a book with "big" ideas that are well thought out and explanined and yet such explanations are not given at the expense of the story. Translation = Big concept, Hard SF that is a lot of fun. Recommended. Nominee: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1974)Nominee: Locus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1974)
Part way into that I dug out Niven's Protector and decided I should re-read that before getting much further in RW Eng. Overall I like this book ALMOST as much as Ringworld, some parts more so, some less.
I would rate it a 4.5 if I could, putting this just under Niven's Ringworld, Mote in Gods Eye & Dream Park novels which are my favorites.I enjoy a number of aspects about Protector.
Well what we have seen so far shows this is not the case, but Niven's Mars still is pretty cool.6.
The last time I read this was in 7th grade, towards the end of my first real "I'm going to read everything this author has written" phase in which I devoured everything Known Space.
(Come to think of it, I never did get around to reading The Integral Trees...) It's interesting to see what I actually remember about the Known Space universe and the stories in it.
I fear it might send me into a nostalgic re-read through the rest of Niven
(After reading the 5 books of the Ringworld, I decided to read the related works in Larry Niven's Known Space universe. Protector figured largely in the unfolding of the Ringworld series and I thought it would be interesting to revisit this book. As such enterprises tend to do, it brought up memories of a youthful life and all the silly things one can get into. Like hitching a ride with the Pak, you never know where you'll wind up.) So Protector is the book, also the race and the spaceship. The
(After reading the 5 books of the Ringworld, I decided to read the related works in Larry Niven's Known Space universe.
Protector figured largely in the unfolding of the Ringworld series and I thought it would be interesting to revisit this book.
And the book is an entertaining read, written in Niven's inimitable style, highly technological, almost mathematical in its precision, the epitome of the hard SF genre.The book makes more sense in the context of the Ringworld and Fleet of Worlds series.
But in the light of the other (later) Niven works, the nature, motivations and actions of the protector make more sense.
Outstanding! One of the greatest science fiction books ever written. This would have to be in my Top Ten books and definitely my favourite Larry Niven book.And did I mention the cover? What a great cover!
Five stars for the first half. Three stars for the second. Read the other reviews to find out why. Contains key information about the Pak protectors, which are threaded throughout Larry Niven's Known Space story arch including the Ringworld series.
Много смело спорех, че не може да е чак толкоз лош "Протектор"-а :).Истината е, че не е ЧАК толкова лош, но за произведение на Нивън си е на практика посредствен.
но извън това е малко...
Едва ли има читател, който би бил втрещен от сюжет или герой - макар и написан по превъзходен начин, почти липсващата оригиналност е толкова нехарактерна за дедо Лари, че ми идва да ударя едни 2 звезди и аз.
Ако името на корицата беше някое неизвестно, вероятно щях да сложа 4*, но това е доста под нивото на "Свят извън времето" (примерно - че я четох наскоро).
The first book written by Niven that I read. Even though the final parts felt a bit "rushed", I really liked his style so I will definitely read more of his works in the future.
Although some might fault the 220-year disconnect between the two halves of the book -- which necessitates a different cast of characters in each -- I thought the storyline provided sufficient continuity to warrant this device which, incidentally, dispenses with the need for linking material which might otherwise have descended into the realm of filler.Now for the criticisms: Niven spends nearly the first half of the novel on exposition.
While this may seem a petty criticism, Niven's choice seriously detracts from the readability of the novel.
To some extent I consider Larry Niven's Known Space stories the default setting for science fiction.
Not early enough to be pulp, yet still definitely not New Wave, let alone modern; never quite OTT enough to be space opera, yet even in the earlier stories too relaxed about the science to feel like mundane SF.
Here, Niven once again takes up John Campbell's challenge to create something which thinks at least as well as a man, but not like a man - and also uses it to point up some of humanity's own more counterproductive tendencies.
Larry Niven had a streak where he wrote some truly bad ass science fiction.
His later stuff isn't as fun - somewhere along the way he stopped being original and started writing "like Larry Niven" - but for a while he was the best there was.
As for Protector - the ideas are wonderful and new, his writing is solid and sparse, and best of all, the story is all over the map - spanning several hundred years, and having numerous main characters - eventually you don't even know who the protagonist is.
...and then you realize that it's the ideas that are the protagonist.
hah!)One of my favorite Larry Niven books.
Fun concept, and I very much like the descriptions of interplanetary travel and interplanetary combat.
The book isn't rushed, but it's efficient: there's no time for things that aren't directly related to the story.
Like much hard SF of the time, this can make the characters seem a bit undeveloped (the word that comes to mind is "blocky" -- all of the basic stuff for character development is more or less there, but it doesn't seem very well developed or very nuanced).
One of the best of the Know Space Series.Larry Niven is best known for his Known Space series and it outgrowth, Ringworld.
One of the majors players in Ringworld are the Protectors, beings of great strength, intelligence, and a homicidal desire to protect their offspring, the idiot hominids that are their offspring.
Millennium before a colony had been sent to Earth and never reported back, so a childless Protector comes here to find out what happened.
It finds a space faring civilization, something it didn't suspect, and thus begins the battle between human and Protector.
One of Niven's best, which is saying something.
Inventive, iconic and fun. This is pulp sci-fi at its best! Enough hard-science stuff to make it enjoyable and believable, with fun characters and an excellent entry into the Known Space universe. It lays some great groundwork for the other novels in a cohesive way and yet stands well on its own.Definitely worth a read if you are a sci-fi type, especially if you enjoy hard-sci-fi and/or have ever read any of the Known Space novels (e.g. Ringworld).
Protector is a excellent novel in Niven's Known Space series, a thought provoking book that covers a vast amount of space and time (the basic elements of sf!) in a relatively short book. Niven strength here is his ability to create believable aliens and cast them in scientifically challenging and plausible situations. (It's been said that his alien characters are more realistic than his human ones.) Protector is a good old hard-sf novel, well worth searching out. (And I love the Dean Ellis cover on the first edition, despite how inaccurate it may be!)
WOW ! Probably the first book in the series about the ET species called the PAK and its relationship with humanity. The rest of the series were entitled Ringworld. I am not sure this was the first in the order that Niven wrote them however. It is a great book. High tech., good science and extra terrestrials ! What more could anyone ask. It is written by the best author in the this genre, or any genre. Highly recommended !
I don't know why I like this book so much. The biology which is central to this story is ridiculous. The whole concept appeals to me though. Highly intelligent and highly dangerous beings who are ruled by a glandular need to protect their offspring at any cost. The physics, on the other hand, is solid. The space battle between Brennan's ship and the Pak scout ships lasted months since everything is limited by the speed of light.
My favorite Larry Niven work, and my second favorite science fiction novel of all time (after The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress). Niven somehow makes a very unlikely story of human origins perfectly plausible, and a seven-year-long space battle against unseen enemies utterly riveting. I've read this book about two dozen times, and I still pick up details I've missed.
A cult sci-fi novel if there ever was one. Belter and Pak society become so familiar concepts in a fairly short book, that you are left grasping for a sequel. Incredibly rich in ideas and alien culture, with an underlying philosophical theme that may connect with the more spiritually minded. Does end a bit too quickly.
Just good, hard Sci-Fi.
Author's Envy! I wish I'd written this book! Here's why: http://www.mark-hodder.com/authorsenv...
One of the classics, an important standard of sci-fi.
And then there's the epilogue, which breezily narrates an entire other novel's worth of action in a few pages.Characters:Phssthpok is one of the better aliens I've read, but Brennan is the star of the book.
It especially annoys me how Alice just happens to drop into the plot right when she's needed.Pacing:The first half is a quick read, since it's basically a suspense story.
I will pretty much read any pulp scifi from the 50s, 60s and 70s if it has an awesome cover.
I enjoyed the alien minds that Vernor Vinge's created in Fire Upon the Deep and A Deepness in the Sky more, but the story of the Pak civilization, and Protector Phssthpok's outlook and motivations were set in a smaller, more focused setting than Vinge's, so it was easier, quicker reading, and the first half plot was compelling.
Upon finishing Protector, I read a Wikipedia page about him, and he seems like the kind of highly intelligent curmudgeon I love to have long conversations with.
"Protector" it's an interesting story or a side Story for The Ringworld Series.
While the concept immigration from another star system is not new, at least for me the concept of arriving as one species of humans to evolve into another is unique.
Another unique feature of the book is that Homo habilis is a larval stage of a species known as the Pak. That's why I mention it is an interesting book and if you need to know of course and good search on the internet will reveal these details to you.
