https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11841.The_Time_Trilogy
In today's time, we surely would have been friends on Facebook.
He too was holding his breath as we read about Meg and friends tesseracting through the universe, traversing time, battling the Black Thing...
We could barely contain ourselves, and as we read the book aloud, our voices were full of emotion -- we were scolded more than once by my husband for reading too loud (we almost woke the baby a few times I'm sure)...hahaha So even as a wife, I am willing to RISK IT ALL - even waking the baby - to read these classics.
I read this teen fantasy classic in preparation for the upcoming movie. I hope to be wrong, but I can't imagine the film being faithful to the spiritual foundations of the books. We'll see!
This Barnes and Noble collectible edition is a beautiful book! I enjoyed the humor, action, and characters in this trilogy set. Great series of books!
A fantastic story. Learned a new word: tesseract -In geometry, the tesseract is the four-dimensional analog of the cube; the tesseract is to the cube as the cube is to the square.
One of children's books that isn't timeless. Read them while you're a child or you'll think it's awful. I'm sad I missed out on this :(
I rated the three books individually, so I won't really bother to do that here. I will say that the three-star rating is just the average of the ratings for the three individual books. I will also say that I bought this a number of years ago because people gush about A Wrinkle in Time and I thought it would be a good addition to my personal library. I don't feel that way now, having finished the trilogy. I'd rather have the vacated space put to better use.
A Wrinkle in Time, A Wind in the Door, A Swiftly Tilting Planet: All such wonderful books in a three-in-one omnibus. There's something simple and magical about these books that always reminds me of the childhood feeling of facing terrible moments and yet knowing it will turn out all right. These books circle, with thematic beauty and fantastic narrative confidence, a message of hope and harmony: despite the darkness, don't give in to the darker impulses in the world. Science fiction, mixed with fantasy fairy tale: fun, childish, and beautiful.
I'm reading this at 38, not 12 like you're probably supposed to, so I wasn't blown away by this like everyone seems to be, however I do see how it was a very influential, ahead-of-its-time novel! The first one flew by and was great, the second one I found to be quite a slog, as nothing seems to much happen and it's just a lot of repeating its concepts to make sure you Really Get It, but then book 3 was fun again as the explaining was out of the way, and there was a story again.
Very entertaining. Keeps you reading and on the edge of your seat. Makes your heart race with both excitement and fear. I encourage people to read while still young!
Great childrens classic with some deep philosophical and spiritual messages. Would not hurt any adult to read or reread. It's currently being made into a movie. I'll be interested to see how it translates.
The books brilliantly handle the topics on everyone’s mind in the 1960’s. Most interesting to me was book #3 which advanced 3 of the 4 children to adulthood and made the oldest pregnant. This is an unexpected twist for a children’s book.
Excellent read. Strong character's. Very good message. Can't believe I missed this one as a kid.
Of the Trilogy, the first and classic A Wrinkle in Time is definitely the 5 Star hero!
4 Star to me, building off the success of the first.
The 3d, A Swiftly Tilting Planet, seems a bit off due to the telling of the tale and how it seems the characters really are more along for the ride than actually influencing the story but still a good read (and I am a sucker for time travel stuff...
There are more in the series and I plan to read the next one but don't think it will ever reach the level of excitement and enjoyment of A Wrinkle in Time, which is definitely a classic!
The fact of the matter is that A Wrinkle in Time has a lot of interesting ideas and conceptsWHAT SUCKS IS THAT IT'S WRITTEN TERRIBLYAnd L'Engle can clearly write absolutely beautiful passages, she has very unique ideas! It's just all caught up in the whole let's sound smart and topical schtick she insists on pushing.I didn't like Golden CompassI didn't like thisI love Young Wizards and Narnia.Thank you.
Not standing the test of timeFinally read a Winkle in Time. I have passed this item on bookstore shelves for years and always meant to get around to it. Years ago, I did read a swiftly tilting planet. On this attempted re-read, I only got have way though. I found the banter between the characters lackluster. The book(s) just didn't move ahead.I realize Disney is planning a cinematic version of Wrinkle, I will wait for the video.
This trilogy is wonderfully imaginative and gives the reader a fairly tale as a young child, but a thought provoking, progressively unfolding story especially as we follow Meg and Charles through their problems.
SciFi Fantasy fun! Not my usual cup of tea but really enjoyed these quick reads.
Read these for the first time in grade school and picked them up for my kids. A timeless classic adventure.
It is the one book in L'Engle's Time Quintet, which follows the Murrys and Calvin O'Keefe.The story is about a thirteen-year-old girl, Meg Murry, the twins Sandy and Dennys, and her five-year-old brother Charles Wallace Murry went to save her missing scientist father with the good people like Calvin Mrs. Whatsit, and Mrs. Who and so on to battle with the evil characters like IT.
I like the novel very much because it shows readers the wise thought by good people, especially Meg to battle with the bad gays.
I don't think they ever came up or would have been shocking to me at that time.
I think what kept our interest was the scientific theory of "a wrinkle in time" especially since this was before computers in classrooms, the internet, video games...pretty much everything we take for granted today.
I looked forward to re-reading the book and carrying on to read the other two in the series which I never read, but I bailed at the end of the first one.
Not a book I will cherish anymore, or read to my grandchildren.
So, as a trilogy, I enjoyed the journey, but I don't know that I'd continue on through the entire quintet.
I quite enjoyed the character of the Unicorn, Gaudior, but the time leaping and trying to keep track of who Charles Wallace was Within, and which one was a decendant of whom, it just got tedious and I found myself falling asleep after almost every chapter (which would be great for those with kids!).
As a whole, the story is enjoyable...and depending on my audience, I'd recommend it to most people who haven't read it (at least the first 2).
(Of course, I've now missed my window to see the film in theaters, but I'll catch it on DVD so it'll be okay.) I haven't actually thought much about them for a long time, either - a lot of the other fantasy I read both as a kid and as an adult kinda overshadowed them, while this trilogy sunk into my unconscious.
(Upon rereading it I realized one or more story ideas I have are really just riffing on aspects of this book.) It was a lot of fun to read this trilogy again, because it brought back lots of memories of what I thought about them when I read them as a kid and I found that they hold up pretty well, as I've elaborated on in my reviews of the individual volumes.
Dear reader I highly suggest that you read A Wrinkle in time by Madeleine L’ Engle.
So in the begging of the book Meg Murrys father is a scientist and he tried to make time machine or a teleporter that can move you to plant to plant.
They face threw challenges and try to defeat some enemies and towards the end, they finally find someone but the final challenge or “it”takes Charles, Megs brother.
Other people suggested that I read it but I never really took the time to but now i think I’m going to read more books by Madeleine L’ Engle.
I think this is a case of being outside of the intended age range and believe that had I read this as a kid it would still hold a fondness.
As it is I barely got through A Wrinkle in Time and though I liked the themes I could care less about the kids.
Precocious kids are the worst when you are an adult without children.
Maybe I'll bring it along on my next extended flight or after surgery recuperating in the hospital but outside of those circumstances I am sure I will not finish this.
This is a review of this edition of the trilogy, rather that the stories contained within.
I'll post those as I finish them.I really like this book.
The pages are a good quality and have the feel of some of the old books I've seen.
I like the little scrollwork-type things that are at the start of each chapter.
The little ribbon bookmark that is attached to the binding is handy and feels sturdy - not at all like it might come detached.This is an edition that would make a great gift for someone (or even for yourself).
Classic children's science fiction series that does a good job exploring various science conception of space & time travel, while providing engaging characters & stories.
L'Engle crafts a nice mix of characters, particularly Murray kids & their friends, who must endure being the children of brilliant parents, which comes in handy when something extraordinary happens to them.
She also gives some nicely simplified explanations of some pretty far out science concepts, such as space travel & the ability to move past the speed of light (the ant along a string is a classic one).
“A wrinkle in time” is a fantastical adventure story for youths to broaden their ideas about time, place, family, the universe and beyond.
Entertaining and a fairly quick read.
(4/5)“A wind in the door” was the exact opposite, a very dry and uninteresting plot line that never caught my attention.
Another adventure through time, however staying mainly on earth and through human history.
Interesting plot and ability to connect numerous characters throughout a history.
Doesn’t have the science fiction bite and initial uniqueness of a wrinkle in time but still a fairly good story.
The Meg/Calvin relationship in book one continues to drive me nuts because it is so completely out of nowhere, and the heavy-handed religious aspect continues to annoy me, but I knew what I was getting into the first time and don't want to make a big thing about it.
It's still a light, fun, easy read, and I do still love the relationships among the family.
Three stars for all the old love I had for this book, and for the fact that I can still reread it with enjoyment even though I had to write an essay on it last month.
3.5* - Wrinkle in Time: Favorite as a kid, didn't like it as much as an adult but would definitely pass this on to my daughter to enjoy.
4* - Wind in the Door: remembered this one most from childhood, and really enjoyed my re-reading.
Vaguely remembered this...elements of Steinbeck's East of Eden with the generational names/themes, didn't like the blue eyed savior family themes (with the pure idealized Native American strains...racist, much?), plodding, didn't like the constant shifting of time; felt like historical fiction meets sci fi, without any real historical fiction, and unicorns.
I'll let Wind in the Door with its awesome cherubim carry the rating.
I was not as enchanted as I read these books again.
I wanted to be - and I'm still excited about the movies coming out.
But I have to admit, my standards for good writing are different than when I was a pre-teen.
I was surprised with many of the logical leaps and uncertain POV as I read the books again.
A younger reader isn't likely to take umbrage at such things, but I really was disappointed.
Still, I've loved these books (without actively re-reading them) for decades - and there's a reason behind that.
