https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/118690.This_Kind_of_War
T.R. Fehrenbach served in the Korean War as an officer in the U.S. Army.
Fehrenbach addresses the conflict in American society between the social liberalism that the civilian world values and the more Spartan, totalitarian world that the military prefers.
Fehrenbach comes down on the side of the military, but he makes a good case as to why armies can't engage in the more easy-going existence of the civilian world.
It's about a war that had ended (well at least the shooting stopped) ten years earlier.
The book takes a professional military viewpoint and that's significant.
As a former Army officer, I have read many military history books; and I assert that "This Kind of War" is the best military history book I have ever read.
As a retired Army officer and Korean War veteran writing approximately 10 - 15 years after the conflict, Fehrenbach does a masterful job in his account.
He seamlessly is able to provide an comprehensive account of the conflict across the tactical, operational, and strategic spheres.
In doing so, he doesn't weigh the casual, non-military down with tactical and operational play-by-play like so many military history books.
The author accepts reality, albeit with some complaint, that political necessity forced the US to defend its interests far from home in wars that required far less than total national commitment.
The author again stresses the necessity for a professional army that trains realistically and accepts deployment, battle and suffering without question, while acknowledging the necessity for a citizen army in a democracy that may not be well-motivated to fight a war for reasons of state ( as opposed to a total war for national survival).
He also addresses political issues, more on the peninsula than in the United States back home, and while he does not provide detailed information about every battle that occurred, he does give enough detail about individual battles to enable the reader to derive a vivid impression of the nature of the events and of the ebb and flow of the conflict.
Rather than viewing this work as a definitive history of the conflict, the wise and careful reader will view it as an interesting perspective by one participant and an insight into thinking about that conflict from someone writing just one decade after the events described.
so in two or three places, Fehrenbach writes things likethe North Korean soldier could survive on three rice balls a daybut actually aside from this and the de rigeur criticism of the ROK army, Fehrenbach's work is still surprisingly readable, accessible, and valuable today.
he isn't quite as military-focused as the paratrooper officer Max Hastings nor does he include 7 out of 10 chapters of modern left criticism of the US Army in 1950 as does the currently very popular Bruce Cumings.
If you are interested in Foreign policy and the Cold War, I highly recommend learning about this chapter in history (if not from Fehrenbach, then from somewhere).The writing itself is somewhat heavy on military details and will likely be difficult for someone unfamiliar with that sort of terminology.
Having completed the book, I can see the frustration of the men in the field, unable to understand why Washington and the UN was tying their hands partway into the war; I can see why the U.S. and UN leaders were trying to hold back, hoping to avoid a general war with the Soviets; and I think I understand a little bit better what the Communists were trying to do in Korea, though I despise their leaders actions.
Soap box: Fehrenbach is a huge fan of General McArthur and is cutting him all kinds of slack for his decisions which cost UN soldiers lives and suffering and prolonged the war.
It's hard for me to deliberately not finish a book, and this is almost like a train wreck...
where you close your eyes to not see, but peek just because you want to know just how bad it can get.I would recommend anyone interested in reading about the Korean War to pick up The Coldest Winter: America and the Korean War which is more balanced and less pro-McArthur.Later: I'm glad that I finished this book.
There's lots of sentimental bullshit about lions and legions and stoic defense of the frontiers and the necessity of harsh, just, professional men to do unspeakable things in the service of polite, gentle folk, which is unfortunate because on balance it's a good book.
The author does this because he himself was a participant in many of the operations he describes and his perspective saves this book from the maw of mediocrity.
And if you're looking for some hilarious lion metaphors you can check here too I guess.
Great book about the Korean War. I read this book because while in the Marines one of my commanding officers gave me an copy of chapter 25, entitled, Proud Legions.
That chapter is still my favorite in the book because it talks about the valor and fighting ability of the Marine Corps compared to other fighting units.
The thing that I enjoyed the most about the book is that it taught me a lot about the Korean war.
I drew a lot of parallels between the war in Iraq and the Korean war.
If you read this book look for the similarities, they blew me away.
Difficult conflict, difficult bookIf my Dad had not fought in this war, I don’t think I would have finished reading this book. The major shortcoming was that no maps were included.
My primary criticism of the book is that it does not include helpful visual aids like battle maps, etc.
While there is a source packet at the beginning of the book containing various maps as referenced throughout the writing, I did not find them very helpful or detailed.
However, the amount of content covered in this book (Korean war, start to finish) certainly requires the author to maintain a broad-brush stroke distance from actual engagements and battles.
Would recommend for the inexperienced history reader looking to build a foundation for future edification on the Korean War/Cold War History.
Mad Dog Mattis recommended this in light of the Korean missile testing. Fehrenbach takes an objective look at the Korean War identifying helpful lessons learned to improve readiness of the American forces in future conflicts.
This Kind of War: The Classic Military History of the Korean War (Kindle Edition) is a very interesting read.
I don't know whether these flaws are part of the print edition, but they are definitely found in the Kindle edition.I've settled on a rating of four stars because, despite the distraction of the poor editing and lack of maps, This Kind of War is still an excellent read.
Bottom line: this is an excellent read for anyone interested in the Korean War or the Cold War, whether you're well read on the subjects or not.
We are reminded by present events that the border between the Koreas has not moved in 65 years since the signing of the Korean War truce.
It didn’t understand the Communist strategy for expansion or the plan for Korea; it did not detect the massing of North Korean troops on the South Korean border (or the massing of Chinese troops on the North Korean border five months later); the U.S. did not appreciate the Korean climate or terrain, or its implications for fighting a ground war; and the U.S. did not realize how its own armies had changed since 1945.Author Fehrenbach makes all this very clear in his accounting of events from the war’s June 1950 outbreak until its truce signing in July 1953.
Written a decade after the armistice, it offered not only details of the battles, but also the effect the end of WWII had on American public opinion toward war (particularly limited action) and the size and training of the standing military, as well as the politics of containment that directed decisions affecting action in the field.
Previous books I've read that dealt peripherally with the subject painted General McArthur's insubordination as a play for a political career after the military.
Calmer heads suggest such a move isn’t necessary and could have serious repercussions if Communist China enters the war on the side of their North Korean allies.
One curious theme that is discussed in detail is that the author claims that the young American soldier simply wasn’t ready to fight in this particular conflict.
So the fighting goes on and on.What I enjoyed most about the book is that the author convinces the reader that even though the war seemed a futile conflict, it did, in fact, set some very clear precedents about how the free world reacted towards a communist aggressor.
Fehrenbach does not technically write a history of the Korean war, although his book is historically accurate.
Rather, through following the actions of numerous small units, he creates a gripping story of the war as seen by the man on the ground and uses those snapshots to lead the reader from the initial invasion to Busan, to Panmunjom, and on through the peace talks.
What sets This Kind of War apart is the social and political commentary that Fehrenbach regularly engages in.
By keeping the reader engaged with individual characters, he is able to do so without becoming onerous.
It's what they didn't teach usAs a child of the 60s, you would think that I would have learned about the Korean War in school.
It wasn't that long ago and the lessons would have been very useful, especially in light of the wars to come afterwards.
Sadly, it wasn't.
I really liked this book.
It seemed to present a balanced view of the events.
I could go on about the waste of lives that comes from war, but this is a review of the book.
I learned a lot.
I recommend it to anyone who wants to learn about the Korean War.
Subtitled ‘A Study in Unpreparedness’. Fehrenbach has a point to make about how the once most powerful Army in the world was brought literally to its knees by first the North Koreans and then the Chinese Communists and how it rose to the occasion each time. It is, deservedly, the classic book of the Korean War and widely read for good reasons. Fehrenbach combines an easy writing style, almost Cornelius Ryan-like and focused analysis on the war at its lowest level. Almost every officer who goes to Korea reads this. Everyone should read it.
This Kind of War is powerful, insightful, and all too prophetic in its account of Western idealism. Very few books have moved me, challenged my political beliefs, and shaken my foundations in the way that this one has. Not for everyone, I would recommend this book to those who question the role of the military in modern society, and those who believe that wars should be fought to win. This Kind of War challenges the lay person's perspective upon armed conflict, as well as those espoused by liberal and conservative alike.
Now I think I know why they call Korea the forgotten war. This Kind of War showed flashes of brilliance in its insightful commentary and and uncannily accurate predictions. Unfortunately much of Fehrenbach's conclusions were redundant and his accounts of events of the war itself often lacked the detail that makes military history so fascinating.
The first US "police action" war where we made the error of mistaking a regional conflict for the grand struggle with world communism. Supported a corrupt regime, thought air power and technological superiority would win it, and underestimated our enemy. Sound like Vietnam?
I was enticed by Collin Powell's words. Unfortunately, the book was written in 1962. There wasn't anything really new here, for me. The BIGGEST problem was the poor editing. Grammer/spelling issues at a rate of 3 to 4 per paragraph made understanding very difficult.
Needless to say, this book came highly recommended.T.R. Fehrenbach was a Korean War veteran who wrote This Kind of War to detail the stories of the men who fought the "forgotten war."  This book is a comprehensive look at the Korean War that uses the narratives of small units and individuals to represent the larger war as a whole.
Nevertheless, Fehrenbach dealt with this issue during a war with draftees, unlike the all volunteer force of today which was almost certainly more difficult.My last criticism of this book is the language used.
•	October 1950 – February 1951: UN troops invading North Korea on two fronts, east and west, and the repulsion of that invasion by Communist Chinese forces.•	February - June 1951: A shallower UN advance into North Korea, keeping a continuous front across the peninsula.•	July 1951 – July 1953: A stalemate situation as hostile armies confront each other slightly north of the 38th parallel while peace talks between the UN and Communist forces are conducted with frequent delays.Fehrenbach covers many individual battles from these phases in great detail, allowing them to stand for other incidents that are treated more cursorily or not at all.
I've read a lot of military history but never anything about the Korean War. I was familiar with the broad stroke events of the war but really it was a blank slate for me.This is somewhat unusual since this was the war my father served in.
In one notable engagement for "pork chop hill" the US fired over 100,00 shells in a 48 hour period....This book was written by a famous historian who also happened to serve as an officer in Korea during the conflict.
They complained to their Congressmen when their combat hardened sergeants tried to train them to meet the harsh reality of combat.
It is a tribute to our troops that they learned quickly and fought hard with what they had - if they survived the first encounters.Fehrenbach repeatedly emphasizes that the mentality of an effective soldier is quite different from that of a peacetime liberal society.
But the reality of the world is that we need a military and an under trained, under equipped military is almost worse than none.Feherenbach wrote his book in 1963.
Like it or not, this is what make our military an effective force in the world.
They were learning something they had not been told: that in this world are tigers...
His point was that no matter how much we would like to believe that we can have a peaceful world by wishing for one, it's criminal to fail to prepare for conflict.
In a nuclear world, if you rule out armageddon, your choices are containment or surrender, and containment means fighting on the ground and that means casualties.
But in this world are tigers...(Have to point out, though, that in 1950 it had only been five years since the death of Hitler.

Tai kažkoks siaubas - įdomiausia tema pateikta taip klampiai, kad skaityti vos įmanoma - iš pradžių galvojau, kad gal vertėjo kaltė, bet pabaigoje pasitaikė porą skyrių (aprašančių nemokšišką amerikiečių elgesį su Šiaurės korėjos ir Kinijos belaisviais), kurie buvo visai sklandūs.
Korėjos nelaisvės], šios moterys buvo sulaipintos į Pietų Korėjos traukinį ir išsiųstos į Laisvės Kaimą repatriacijai.
Jos mojavo iškišusios pro langų komunistų vėliavas ir klykaudavo bei šūkaudavo pakely sutiktiems apstulbusiems pietų korėjiečiams.Traukiniui artinantis prie Panmundžomo, moterys ėmė plėšti nuo savęs kapitalistų pagamintus ir imperialistų išduotus drabužius, kad namo grįžtų komunistiškai tyros.
