https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/557124.The_Mystery_of_the_Silver_Spider
In this volume, we do get to see a new twist.
As I've stated in previous reviews, one of the tropes of the series is to always introduce a boy from another country in each mystery.
It did add a little bit of flavor to a series that needed something different.The plot was different as well, as this was more of a political coup scandal than a straight up mystery.
Overall, this was a very entertaining volume, and I'm looking forward to the next!
I don't remember which volumes I read when I was a child, but I'm having a lot of run re-reading these gems.
Ich kann den Kniff wirklich, gerade für europäische Leser, verstehen, Aber dadurch ergeben sicher dann wieder plotholes und Logikfehler.
Und trotzdem mochte ich das Buch.
Einmal weil es einigermaßen spannend ist aber vor allem Aus Nostalgie.
Ich hab als Kunde hol keine Folge öfter gehört und das obwohl (oder weil ?) ich einige nie so richtig verstanden habe- im Nachhinein auch nicht verwunderlich.
Für mich ist und bleibt es DER Bob Ohnmacht Fall und der, in dem er so schön schreit (im Buch natürlich nur im Kopf zu hören ).Kopf zu hören )
2009 review - Following a near accident, the boys are invited to the principality of Varania, to help Prince Djaro discover the location of the fabled Silver Spider, which has been stolen.
Superb stuff.2013 update - I’d stand by most of the original review except to add that the boys are generally relegated to supporting players for a good portion of this, as Rudy and Elena (‘minstrels’ loyal to the prince) organise their escape (and this leads to a couple of sequences that aren’t from the boys POV, which is as jarring as the other books Robert Arthur did it in).
The boys are off to Europe to go undercover.
It's as ridiculous as you might expect.Lame plot about Jupe, Bob, and Pete who inexplicably make friends with a young Prince in a near-miss fender bender.
They bond immediately and are invited to the coronation festivities, compliments of our dues ex machina, Mr. Hitchcock.
Throw in a dose of 1970's amnesia as a plot device and you've got a hot mess of a stew going, baby.I usually love these books but this one misses the mark for me.
Only 2 stars but I still love you, boys.
Bert Young, a secret service agent, also recruits them as it’s feared the Prince Regent is plotting to overthrow Djaro and make Varania a crooks paradise.
Superb stuff.2013 updated - I’d stand by most of the original review except to add that the boys are generally relegated to supporting players for a good portion of this, as Rudy and Elena (‘minstrels’ loyal to the prince) organise their escape (and this leads to a couple of sequences that aren’t from the boys POV, which is as jarring as the other books Robert Arthur did it in).
That aside though, still a good book.
Ako obvykle sa chlapci pripletú k záhade, ktorá sa však tentokrát odohráva v Európskej krajine Varania na bližšie neidentifikovanom mieste a budúci následník trónu Djaro na to aby sa mohol stať korunovaným následníkom potrebuje na korunováciu prívesok so strieborným pavúkom..... a áno, ten pavúk zmizne :)Aj keď som asi tak od polovice tušila, kde je samotný pavúk, priznám, že naháňačky hore hradom a dole hradom boli príjemné. Kedže som si ich nepamätala z predchádzajúceho čítania, bolo to ako čítať knihu prvý raz. Príjemným osviežením bola zmena prostredia aj keď občas bola mierne stereotypná. Celkovo to bolo príjemné čítanie do kabelky.

Not one of the better Three Investigators books. The boys spend much of this book in a foreign country, and they don't actually solve much of a mystery. The "bad guy" is known from the beginning; there's one question to be resolved and its answer is obvious, and the solution at the climax of the book was entirely predictable. In addition, the boys don't really do much on their own initiative, instead running about as other people or circumstances dictate. I love the Three Investigators series, but this installment was particularly disappointing.
This is not one of the better 3 Investigators stories. Set in a fictitious European country called Varania, the boys uncover a political coup plot and help find the national heirloom, a silver spider. Varania sounds like a very limited fantasy of a European country full of cliched words and imagery ('quaint', 'picturesque', peerage and carnivals). The Prince of Varania barely enters the plot, despite being central to it. The only 3 Investigators worthy bit is when, outwitting the adults, they realize where the silver spider actually is.
Worst Three Investigators book of the first 8. Mystery nigh nonexistent, just the location of the SS - everything else was more action, though the politics was a bit nonsensical, and a lot of things dont make full sense imo - like how easily the boys are framed or people rising to the prince's aid but not doing it before the bell.
Hasil minjam lagi, hohoho... Ternyata diriku dulu nggak sempat baca novel ini.Seru... Ceritanya khas remaja tapi bisa dinikmati hampir semua umur.Kali ini trio detektif berpetualang memecahkan misteri di Eropa atau negeri Varania. Jadi teringat kisah nabi Muhammad waktu dikejar musuh bersembunyi dalam gua, tiba-tiba laba-laba membuat sarang didepan gua tersebut dan musuh yang mengejar mengira bahwa gua tersebut tidak ada orang karena ada sarang laba-laba dipintu masuk gua. Apakah cerita kali ini terinspirasi cerita nabi ya?Menurutku buku ini juga tata bahasanya baku dan bagus buat pelajaran bahasa indonesia.Pokoknya petualang kali ini seru lah, jarang-jarang trio detektif keluar negeri ^^v
Kisahnya menarik sekali. Menceritakan sebuah kelompok trio detektif yang terdiri dari Jupiter, Pete dan Bob yang pada saat itu sedang berkendara. Tak sengaja sang supir hampir saja menabrak mobil dari seorang pangeran Varania. Dari peristiwa itulah trio detektif menjadi sahabat pangeran dan mulai membantu penyelidikan mengenai hilangnya Laba-laba Perak. Petualangannya cukup menegangkan. Apalagi pada saat trio detektif dituduh mencuri Laba-laba perak tersebut. Petualangan yang sangat menarik bagiku.
I'm normally a big fan of this series, but this book just didn't work for me.
A lot of the draw of this series if the investigator's super col base, which we hardly get to see.
I don't like the whole fictional rustic European country thing that they have going on here.
I also would have liked to see a lot more interactions with the prince as they were sparse and didn't really give you a good feel for their relationship.Finally, the boys did next to nothing in this story.
All of the action has been taken out of their hands by local rebels, and the u.s. government.
I loved these novels as a boy and, whilst they're not now widely available, I found this one in a second hand bookshop and snatched it up to read to my own boys (6 and 8). There were a few more flaws than I remembered first time round, but the boys loved this story of The Three Investigators heading off to the Kingdom of Varania to help a young Prince under pressure - hence the full marks!
I am rereading my childhood favorite sleuthing boys. I started with this book as it's one of the ones I least remember. This isn't one of the better 3I books. It's more an adventure than a suspense-mystery but it does have its genuinely brilliant moments, Bob's hiding place of the silver spider probably the best. The boys and story hold up pretty well after such a time.
There was a passing reference to some spooky things, but really, this was just a political thriller with an amnesia subplot brought about by head trauma. While there was real threat, this wasn’t the strongest outing for the Three Investigators, particularly considering they were supporting characters for a good part of the story.
Okelah yang ini. Ada kerajaan, gipsi, Bob amnesia dan banyak kejar - kejaran. Yassss
Great adventure involving a political plot and a silver spider
2,5 Sternchen x3
Ako povedal môj syn: "Nebolo to tak záhadné..."
I could hardly put it down and struggled to slow down when trying to read every word because I wanted to know what would come next, and yet, everything about this tale was different than the previous books in the series.
They are not really being useful as detectives, and except for a couple of late deductions by First Investigator Jupiter Jones at the very end of the book, this really was not much of a mystery story.
The Mystery of the Silver Spider is a fun tale and a great addition to the Three Investigators series if for no other reason than to give the series some new color and some fresh ideas.
One of the Prince's ancestor's had to go in hiding and when some "good" people hid him, a certain type of spider spun a web over the opening immediately afterwards. As a result, when soldiers searched the place, they saw the spiderweb and didn't bother to search the little hidey-hole. The spider was revered by the royal family ever since, making a silver replica of the spider that saved the dynasty. Now, Jupe must figure out who stole it and why.
Für mich persönlich eines der schwächsten drei ???-Bücher. Die Story ist mir einfach zu sehr kinderbuchartig und unglaubwürdig. Ich bin zwar froh, dass die Übersetzerin die Handlung in eine "schwedische" Stadt in Texas übertragen hat, denn das Original (Handlungsort: kleines europäisches Fürstentum) wäre für mich noch abstruser gewesen, doch auch dieser Kniff konnte die wenig überzeugende Geschichte nicht retten.
petualangan kali ini tidak terlalu penuh misteri, dan terselesaikan dengan cukup mudah, pemuda yang menemani mereka kali ini adalah Djaro Montestan dari negara fiktif bernama Varania (kedengarannya seperti Latveria, bukan?!) Nilai plus dalam cerita ini adalah banyaknya karakter yang berperan termasuk si dukun misterius bernama Anton, yah sayang sekali Varania tidak nyata, "Demi Pangeran Paul" mungkinkah Dr. Doom mengambil alih Varania?!
Following a near accident, the boys are invited to the principality of Varania, to help Prince Djaro discover the location of the fabled Silver Spider, which has been stolen. Bert Young, a secret service agent, also recruits them as it’s feared the Price Regent is plotting to overthrow Djaro and make Varania a crooks paradise. Told at breakneck pace, this has high adventure, mystery, daring escapes, a couple of bumps on the head for Bob and a thrilling climax. Superb stuff.
Enjoyed it as a child, but as an adult it feels too trivial, and not something worth wasting time on. Not even something I would recommend to kids of my own. I would rather they spent their time reading books which would stay with them for life and never lose their appeal (such as Just William), or working on reading more advanced literature, instead of holding themselves back in order to spend too much time reading books of this ilk.
This is my least favorite of the first eight Three Investigators novels. The setting jumps to the utterly unbelievable fake European country of Varania, and there is little deduction to the mystery. It's more like an action story with several timely coincidental interventions than a real mystery, and it even rips off an escape from Alfred Hitchcock's Solve-Them-Yourself Mysteries.
"the silver spider, though silver, is just a spider"i still remember that line. it was a buddy read in 1997, almost 20 years ago. and i still remember how enthusiastic my friend and i were over this book.
Someone tried to sell me on the superiority of The Hardy Boys recently, but I told them where they could stick that bovine secretion. The only formulaic, hack-written, kid detective schlock I love is The Three investigators.
Petualangan Trio Detektif ini tumbenan usut-punya usut pelakunya udah ketahuan dari awal. Tetep seru sih,terutama atmosfer kerajaannya.. keren, apalagi pas lonceng berdentang tanda sesuatu, jadi inget salah satu seri komplotannya Enid Blyton.
