https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52529.The_Secret
You attract bad things to you through your negative thoughts.
The book goes on to say that weight management is simply a matter of "thinking thin" and not looking at fat people (for real), that if you have a stack of bills to pay you should instead picture checks coming in, that you can have everything you want through visualization, such as your hands on the steering wheel of your car, and that you can cure your cancer watching funny movies.
I would go so far as to say that this book is not only BAD but it is DANGEROUS.

I had a long review and I got too many responses to it.
Comments and emails, and strangers connecting with me because of this review.So I deleted it.Here is what I will say nowI once gave this 5 stars.
I have since changed it to 2 stars.My focus is on something else now.
This book is fine but I don't recommend it any more but other books instead...If you are looking for control over yourself and future, Its in being as close to God as possible.How to do that and what that looks like is a much longer explanation and individual for everyone.Good luck on your journey!
went to dinner with the boss lady the other night. she went on and on about this wonderful book. it was truly life changing. and she was already seeing the positive results of applying principles from it in her business and personal life.she wasn't able to really articulate any ot those principles, so she just gave me a copy. went through it the next day.holy crap. my employer, the person that i am financially dependent on, is a fruitloop. am updating my resume now.
بصراحة ما دفعني لقراءة هذا الكتاب والبحث فيه هو حجم الترويج والحديث الكثير عنه، وحجم الجدل الذي دار 
It's a bit like "karma" and positive thinking with a twist: You want to money comming to you?
Just visualise that food has 0 calories!Quote from the book:Food cannot cause you to put on weight, unless you think it can.
Someone should have explained to her that it's 0 calories and good for her!Yes, people ARE that stupid to believe in all the stupid claims that Rhonda Byrne writes.
I'll go as far as to say that: yes, negative thinking gets you nowhere and that positive thoughts healthier for you - the glass is half full and all that....
لطالما أثار هذا الكتاب الجدل حوله منذ ظهوره في سنة 2007، ثم ترجم إلى العربية بعد ذلك فزاد الجدل المب
I wasn't interested in reading this book.
There are even segments of the book that answered all of my cynical questions such as, "then just focus all your thoughts on getting revenge to those you hate", "I didn't give myself this disease", and "I am a victim".
Many folks think the whole book is bunk because it gives an air of personal responsibility, and I can see why they would hate that.
Why not try living this secret to life for a year and see what's possible?I highly reccommend LISTENING to this book.
I think I would have a hard time reading it.
فكرة الكتاب بسيطة جدا وقد قال النبي صلي الله عليه وسلم (أنا عند ظن عبدى بى فليظن بى ماشاء إن خير فخير وإن شر فشر
(Excerpted from an online essay I wrote): To be sure, the so-called Secret represents a financially viable means to wealth, obviously so, but let's be clear: only for Rhonda Byrnes, The Secret DVD's producer and book's author.Thus, Byrnes would have you believe that the world's wealthy, distinguished and famous—every last luminous one of them—attained their high position by dint of simple adherence to a secret law: The Law of Attraction.
A liar, you see, at least recognizes the truth enough to know that he's departing from it; a bullshitter couldn't care less—just show her the money.The Law of Attraction, then, is the bullshitter's belief that one can change the objective world alone by the power of thought—forget action; in fact, eschew action.
That book is at the top of every bestseller list and it's total crap.
You're not going to get what you want by thinking about how much you want it.
I mean, yes to positive thinking and all that, but the part they left out was that you actually have to DO something to make things happen.
But you should also think about and envision the steps you need to take to get there.
It's your fault that bad things happen to you.
If you could just think positively all the time, you'd live a charmed life and trouble would never darken your doorstep.Ugh.
ولاحظ هنا أنه بهذا الرد قد تخلّى عن قانون الجذب.فإذا كانت حكمه الله أن يموت من الجوع وهي عكس ما يريده ذلك البائس من طعام وماء تحت ثقل غرائزه وآلامه,فلماذا لا تكون نهايتك أنت أيضا عكس ما كنت تتمناه بقانون الجذب, فتقضي حكمة الله بخسرانك لحبيبك, وظيفتك, أموالك, صحتك, أو حتى أن تموت حرقاً على الخازوق؟.ولا أظن أن مروج قانون الجذب سيكتفي بهذا القدر من الجدال, وغالباً ما سيقوم بصياغة حجته التالية هكذا:ربما أن هؤلاء الموتى, لم يفكروا في الطعام بالقدر الكافي, وإنما كانوا يفكرون في الجوع, وفي الموت الذي ينتظرهم, فهم ضحايا تفكيرهم السلبي.ولكن هناك أمثلة أخرى جانب التفكير السلبي فيها غير مؤثر إطلاقاً, كالأمثلة التي أوردها فرانسيس جالتون, وهي كالتالي: إذا كان ما تتمنونه يتحقق, وهناك عشرات الملايين حول العالم يتمنون بشغاف قلبهم أن يحفظ الله ملوك بريطانيا, فلماذا لم يخلدوا أو على الأقل عاشوا بعض آلاف من السنين؟!
" صـ 75جزء كامل يتحدث عن أهمية الامتنان و كيف أنّه من العادات المهمةللقادة العظماءللشعور بالرضا و جلب لمزيد من الخير خصوصًا عند الاستيقاظ من لنوم و بدأ اليومإسلاميًا : ألم يقل سبحانه "وَإِذْ تَأَذَّنَ رَبُّكُمْ لَئِن شَكَرْتُمْ لأَزِيدَنَّكُمْ " "وَإِن تَشْكُرُواْ يَرْضَهُ لَكُمْ ""وَٱشْكُرُواْ للَّهِ إِن كُنتُمْ إِيَّاهُ تَعْبُدُونَ " " و سيجزي الله الشاكرين "و كيف أنّ الحمد مرتبط بحياتنا منذ الإصباح " الحمدلله الذي أحيانا بعد ما أماتنا و إليه النشور "و حتى النوم و ألسنتنا في كل حال لها بالله صلة ذاكرة شاكرة حامدة* مبدأ العطاء /امنح المال لتحصل على المزيد منه ..
Swept up by its popularity, my mom brought a copy home.Much like George Bush Jr., this book is equal parts stupid and disturbing.
The Universe will help you like a genie in a bottle.
Knowledge found in Eastern religions such as Buddhism (e.g. Karma) are simplified and described as a "secret" that only the elite are aware of.The disturbing part comes in statements such as the one, early in the book, that says people killed in disasters or crimes brought it upon themselves.
You are in tune with the Universe.Much like The Da Vinci Code I couldn't make it past page 60.
At the beginning, the author writes about the law of attraction, specifically that if you believe in something, it can happen - like, if you believe you will one day fall in love, marry, and have a family or if you believe you will succeed in education and earn your PhD, than, doggonit, you can.
It's as the book continues and the words change from "can" to "will definitely" that the author lost me.
For example, if you want a certain amount of money, say $100,000 for a down payment on a home, and if you think about it totally positively, and mentally stamp out any negative thoughts, like, "Who am I kidding?
(p105)  Still my favourite part of this book is a fine example of how irrational the rational world of business can be.The true story of a Belize oil team is an inspiring example of the power of the human mind to bring forth resources  (view spoiler)[What quantum physicists and Einstein tell us is that everything is happening simultaneously...whatever you want in the future already exists (p62) it seems that Byrne believes this applies to the past too - that through positive thinking the team altered the geological processes that occurred in the region.
And if that doesn't work you can write a vacuous self help book full of profound sounding but utterly meaningless tripe and there are enough stupid people in the world to make you rich!
I used to give a lot of money to various charities – cancer research, rape support groups, third world aid – but I've stopped that now because I realise that the problems people have are because they secretly, deep down, wish them upon themselves, and only they can make their lives better!
"You are the masterpieceof your own life.You are the Michelangeloof your own life."I believe! Thank you!
Someone in work made me read this and i hated it.Shite.
I love The Secret.
It's basically pretty common sense, what you think about and talk about the most is what you get more of.
No matter how adverse a sitation gets, surely there must be something that makes you happy, something that you are essentially grateful for -- Awesome friends and family, loving pets, a roof over your head, a kick ass music collection, etc.
The secret kind of distills a lot of really heavy but totally useful info compiled from esoteric spiritual and scientific texts into a simplified, easy to practice formula.
You get what you think about!
قد ايه مؤسف انك تدخل صفحة كتاب زي ده على الجود ريدز تلاقي انه اكبر عدد من الناس قريته واديته ريت وري
It was on sale and I too wanted to know "the secret" Now I know-I just think about checks every day and voila-my mailman will bring them to me!
C'mon people, positive thinking has been written about in dozens if not hundreds of books and they were much better written than this drivel!
I have to go envision my dinner now cause I don't want to actually have to work on making some-YUK, throw this book in the fireplace so you can get something out of it!
اخخخخخخ ماذا أقول عن هذا الكتاب؟!!صدقا أشعر بالكمد والغيظ أني دفعت مقابل هذا الكتاب مالا فهو لا يستح

It is the preview of life’s coming attractions•	Use Vision boards as ways to visualize your goals•	Your power is in your thoughts, “Remember to Remember,” live in the presentOn Feelings and their power:•	Our feelings let us know what we’re thinking•	Our feelings are feedback mechanisms to us about whether we’re on track or not, whether we’re on course or off course•	Bad feelings are a warning from the universe•	You’re getting exactly what you’re feeling about, not so much what you’re thinking about•	Make a list of Secret Shifters, things to employ when you’re not feeling good or the way you want toHow to live the secret:•	What do you want; take time to write that down, you must be clear about what you want.1.
New here those claims in this book about the ability of humans to control them life, and only ..Without the expense of God and his ability and his will and his control of the volcanoes, rain and the sky and the earth .....!
, By GOD will, GOD ability not by ourselves or our ability only ,not with out (God)This myth, and the man is not the Lord here anywayGod is not relevant to human , God direct the universe, man is not God, or a part of God, or like God !*****الرسول صلى الله عليه السلام قال تفاءلوا بالخير تجدوهيبقى ايه الجديد هنا فى الكتاب دا ؟؟ الجديد هنا و الخطير ارجاعهم القوة و السيطرة و الارادة الى الانسان و بس ، انهم مخليين الانسان و بس سيد مصيره دون عمل حساب لله عز و جل و لارادته و كأن دا فعلا حقيقي !
..هذا هو السر"الظَّانِّينَ بِاللَّهِ ظَنَّ السَّوْءِ عَلَيْهِمْ دَائِرَةُ السَّوْءِ"(الفتح:6)..كتاب أبهر العالم بأفكاره التي لخصها القرآن قبل أكثر من 1400 عام في آية واحدة!يا لنا من دعاه سيئين لقرآننا العظيم.لكم تمنيت أن يكون الكاتب مسلم، وبرغم ذلك فأنا أرفض التقليل من شأن الكتاب والكاتبة.. يكفيها أنها أكتشفت سر من أسرار القرآن الكريم
Don’t get me wrong- I embrace and appreciate the power of positive thinking and believe that an optimistic frame of mind can go a long way.
I am hard-pressed to believe that there is one million dollars floating around in there.
The Secret would tell me that the million dollars is not in there because I don’t think it is possible for it to be there.
My frame of mind is inhibiting me from finding that million dollars.
You summoned that into your life, the same way you ordered up that new house or that million dollars from the magic catalog of the universe.
Read this book, they said.
It'll change your life, they said.
I don't want to change my life, I said.
You need more optimism in your life, they said.
Fuck you, I said.
That people fucking bought?
You disappoint me more and more every day.I hate the whole self-help gimmick that people have on going these days.
There's the monk who sells his Ferrari.
Call me an asshole, call me a bitch, call me whatever the fuck you want, but some books make my blood boil, and this is one of them.
However, implicit in the teachings of the Secret is the idea that our current place in life is not good enough, that we need to create something in the future that will in turn complete us (better job, more money, new relationship, etc), and make us feel whole.
So it's a fine and wonderful thing to have fun with the LOA, and create the life you want, just don't expect to be satisfied with whatever you create in the future if you are not satisfied Now.
