https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20617789-subaltern-on-the-somme
A self-effacing memoire which speaks frankly about life in the trenches of the Somme once the initial push had failed and after so many were killed in the first few days.It is clear that the men were poorly equipped at times, the battle got away from the generals and the stalemate was complete.I liked the human thought that away from the guns pounding positions with impersonal fallout.
All aspects of daily life, the tedium, the need for morale are touched upon.
I was moved by a first hand account that sought to explain but not justify events.

TediousTo call this tedious is not to denigrate. The tale provides an insight of the experience of the stalemate of trench warfare. For much of the time, "housekeeping," tasks were a vital part of readiness for action an was tedious. Of course the experience viewed through the life of a subeltern was significantly different to that of Nick's English private soldiers.
The edition I read was published under the pseudonym "Mark VII" in 1927. Very, very graceful and elegiac account of experiences from July 1916 to January 1917, when Plowman was wounded and sent back to England. Plowman was a poet, and it shows! Very hard to find this book (thank you, interlibrary loan)!
HarrowingAn unusual account of a Junior Officer fighting in the mud of WW1 in 1916. You wouldn’t joke about mud in the trenches again. He set out as a pacifist and ended up fighting although he doesn’t really explain that. The text often feels very immediate and although written in 1928 retains that quality. The extraordinary waste of young lives is constantly confronting him.
Poignant AutobiographyWell written, poignant autobiography. Not a lot of "action" but good descriptions of the psychological effects of combat. Definitely would recommend.
The author tells the story of his 6 month on the Western front when he is a replacement as a junior lieutenant to a unit that was severely mauled in the Battle of the Somme.He is a very good writer, becoming a poet after WWI.
Nothing in his six month tour indicates his interest in conscientious objection, he comes across as a officer who would rather be elsewhere but is doing his duty, the best that he can, no different than tens of thousands of other citizen soldiers.At any rate, his unit doesn't see a major action but spends months in and out of the the trenches enduring extremely adverse environmental conditions as well as German artillery and snipers.
I think this is a good "view" from the trenches, the original diary is sporadic and quite random but conveys very well the disorganised minutiae of life in the army at that time. Without the wider context and taking one man's "ant's eye" perspective really shows the complete and utter futility of mechanised trench warfare. The internal conflict and thrill combined with helpless fear is well conveyed without any comment from historians "interpreting" battles or circumstance.
After a slow start, Plowman gets into the rhythm of it all. Plowman is rather priggish and this halts a more earthy relating of the horrors of the 1916 Battle of the Somme. There are better recounts of the Great Wa
A true story that shows the folly of war and that it really doesn't solve anything. Should be read by those deciding to send people off to fight.
I was prepared to really dislike this book, but read it anyway for my book club. I came away really liking it because it talks about the absurdities of war. Real interesting insights.
Excellent account of the war in the trenches during the battle of the Somme by a British officer during World War I.
A great book by a junior officer. He does not hold back on criticism of the war machine of the BEF
ReadNot to bad I would readily read on a train bound for any were as some of this is a drudge
Just too lyrical and self obsessed for me. Didn't finish.
