https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36645972-clock-dance
3.5 I've read this author for years, her stories won't shake up the world nor cause any great seismic shifts in the Universe.
Willa, now 61, is one of those ladies who are there in the background, not demanding, just goes along with the flow seemingly wherever someone wants her to head.
She is the person in the background, the one who makes the best of her life choices, causes little fuss, and is there when needed.
I loved the characters Willa meets in this novel, how she risks herself, slowly stepping out of her shell.
Fast forward again to 2017 when she’s sixty-one remarried to Peter who seems an awful lot like Derek.
Anne Tyler seamlessly and quickly moves us across decades and while without telling us what happens in between, she has a way of letting us understand what those years may have been like for Willa.
Along with them a cast of characters who get to Willa in a way she hasn’t felt in a long time.
No need to tell more of the plot because if you are an Anne Tyler fan, you will want to read this book.
And 20 years later, still seeking a purpose, she gets a completely unexpected phone call, and without warning, she finds herself heading across the country to take care of a young girl and her mother, two people she had never even met before.While this decision uproots Willa's life and causes significant turmoil, being depended upon, even relied upon, for the first time in many years, feels tremendously fulfilling.
And in the Baltimore community, where neighbors seem to know everything about each other's lives, are willing to help each other, and treat one another like family, Willa becomes her own person.So many books out there focus on characters in unusual circumstances, or in the midst of major upheaval or adversity.
It is a loose merging at first with long gap times where the threads grow loose and sloppy, but they never completely disconnect.When the time comes that someone reaches out for her help when they are in need, suddenly all those parts of her self begin to take on a new pattern – bright, sure, and strong.I loved this novel because of how Anne Tyler’s deep explorations into the life and psyche of one woman led me to understand and relate to so many people I have known – and even to aspects of myself.This wonderfully written story is a captivating read both on the surface, and even more importantly, for the deep exploration of being human and growing into who we dreamed we might become.
Anne Tyler simply gets women and understands their rich interior life.Willa is in her early 60’s and has spent her life with strong men (some, including me, might call them bullies) and she subjugates her needs and desires to others.
I felt I really came to know and understand Willa, and why she made the decisions that shaped her life.In the current day, she gets a phone call from the neighbor of her son's ex-girlfriend, Denise.
Through the quirky neighbors, Willa begins to see what it’s like to be a part of a supportive family and community, to be needed, to have a purpose.
Clock Dance wasn’t my favourite Anne Tyler, but it still gave me the satisfaction of reading fiction written by a master.
The story focuses on different slices in the life of main character Willa.
As I write this description, I realize that there’s a symmetry to the story I had missed as I read it.
The real focus of Taylor’s novel is how Willa is shaped by these events, and how her personality simultaneously helps and hinders her.
Taylor is the master of scenes where emotions are potent and much is left unsaid, and there are plenty of such scenes in Clock Dance.
It’s not that I was feeling sad every minute, but my god, it killed me right from the start knowing a little girl had to be ‘responsible’ and ‘adult-like’ before she was developmentally prepared or age-appropriate.
Later we visit a familiar theme that women have grappled with for centuries: pleasing others - giving up dreams ( if even clear of them in the first place), trying to take care of everyone else’s needs, but little thought to one’s own.
‘Strangers’ often become sub-families.Ann gives us much to chew on - discuss - in “Clock Dance”.We journey with Willa Drake from childhood to middle age.
Clock Dance’s protagonist is Willa Drake, and I love the way Tyler lets us get to know her.
In the first chapter, she’s 11 and her mother – a flighty, dramatic type – abandons the family (that too is a common Tyler theme; many of her women simply walk out the door).
Willa has been a rather timid observer throughout most of her life – an early scene set in an airplane remarkably illustrates that – and now, finally, she’s doing something decisive, even though her family doesn’t understand why.The book’s not perfect.
She goes to college, gets married, has 2 sons and overall a pretty average American life.
Willa and Peter fly out to Baltimore to take care of her and this is when Willa realizes that strangers can turn into friends who can turn into family.Overall I think the book was OK.
I also really enjoyed Anne Tyler's writing style.This book was only OK for me because I felt like the story was a bit slow moving for me.
It was nice to see Willa's journey however I'd like to see her relationships with her son's flourish or find out how she ended up once she got home to Tucson.
I like this author’s style – the way she is able to take everyday, mundane events and turn them into an interesting story, yet still keep the overall tone low-key, subtle, and rooted in reality.
I enjoy reading about characters that are relatable, which many times means that they also have to be realistic and yes, sometimes even “ordinary,” – a character that may not necessarily have much excitement going on in their lives, but yet encounter interesting enough moments where a story like this never once comes across as boring.
I really enjoyed the first 100 pages or so as the story moved from Willa as a child, later attending college, and then as a wife and mother.
The story however lost me when the action moved to Baltimore with Willa flying there to take care of a little girl as her mother is in the hospital.
I liked Willa as a character and enjoyed seeing how her life progressed through the years but those Baltimore characters ruined the story for me.
I know I'm in the minority with my opinion as others seemed to really connect with this book which is great.
So it’s no surprise that I adored “Clock Dance” and want everyone in the world to read it, and ALL of Tyler’s stellar oeuvre.I’m not the only fan who has called Tyler the “Jane Austen of our time”; the comparisons are obvious: beautiful writing, accessibility, colorful characters, perfectly pitched dialogue, and a focus on domestic stories.
If you never read a novel about the human condition, how would you learn to appreciate other people’s perspectives?Ok – to the review: “Clock Dance” is about Willa Drake who finally “wakes up” to her life.
Although these are not spoilers in the truest sense, you might prefer to come across them as you read.
(view spoiler)[Willa's mother, she of the iffy temperament, perversely prepares rabbit stew for Easter dinner.
This was not random, you get the distinct impression she is wanting to get a rise out of someone with regard to the timing of the entree, and she succeeds.The other thing is how Willa was fed up to the gills listening to the people in business suits on the airplane with their ubiquitous office speak - "going forward", "reaching out", "cascading information", and "idea showers".
Boy howdy, I'm with you, Willa.
(hide spoiler)]
“Clock Dance” tells the story of middle aged Willa, a woman who has spent her life being the “good girl” and fulfilling her family’s expectations.
But Willa is jolted out of that existence when she receives an unexpected phone call.
Her response to that call is the first step in Willa’s journey away from her compliant, responsible, and endlessly accommodating existence to a life where she can begin to satisfy her own needs and wants.
This would be a great book club read and the message of caring for others without sacrificing the pursuit of our own purpose and meaning is an empowering one.
Even a middling Anne Tyler book is better than a lot of modern fiction.
Compared to some of her other novels, this is not one of my favorites, mainly because I had a hard time relating to Willa, the main character.
Anne Tyler knows her characters, she is a genius at dialogue.
Willa does finally decide to have it her way, late in the book.
She took a stand, she got real, she made some decisions.I feel guilty giving this only 3 stars, but I'm judging it against other of her books that I loved more.
Those who love Anne Tyler—and I do—will rejoice in all the familiar nuances of her oeuvre: eccentric yet familiar characters, baffling children, happened-upon marriages, the Baltimore setting and the dichotomy between confinement and freedom, security and self-worth.In Clock Dance—another quixotic novel about self-discovery in later years—Anne Tyler introduces Willa, whose defining moment range from her erratic mother’s bolting from the house, her marriage proposal at a young age, and much later in life, a surprise phone call regarding her son’s discarded and temporarily hospitalized girlfriend and the nine-year-old daughter that the neighbor assumes is her granddaughter.What follows is a familiar ecosystem of zany friends and neighbors as Willa begins to slowly recognize some self-truths.
I feel like 2 stars may be generous.
The contrived situation, the ever-present and over-involved (and idle) neighbors, the way all three of the remaining men in her life are complete dicks (peter, ian, and sean - how did they get to be that way, anyway?) - her complete cluelessness about how cellphones work and reliance on landlines (she’s 60, for godsake, not 90!).
It’s like she phoned this in from the 1970s.
The title is based on a throwaway situation with no significance to anything.
The ending is exactly what you’d expect from about 50 pages in.
I would expect a much better product from an established writer.
I am giving up with this book. I have read a few of Anne Tyler's books and liked them. However, this one and I are just not jelling. So, I am quitting at page 203 feeling that I did give it a good go. Some books are just not for everyone. I need to remember that always.
Not the self, not society – but the little malleable confederation that lies between the two.Anne Tyler, one of this country’s great artists, has spent 50 years and more than 20 novels on the subject, her beautiful, understated, humane tales so similar in shape and voice that taken together they have come to seem like a subtle and sublime mania, the author explaining the same idea to herself over and over again, marveling anew each time at its mysteries.“Clock Dance,” her latest novel (Knopf, 292 pp., ★★★½ out of four), concerns Willa, a typical Tyler protagonist, which is to say decent, wry, middle class, and basically bewildered.
This book started off really strong with an intense plot and several flashforwards that made the story compelling and alluring.
Their father doesn't really want to confide in them what has happened this time around, so it's up to Willa and her younger sister to continue living their lives while desperately missing their mother.
Once again, Anne Tyler has written a book which shows that she is excellent at writing characters!
To me, it doesn't make sense that Anne Tyler felt the need to frame the story in flashforwards in the first part, and then have no flashforwards in the second part.
Nevertheless, I enjoyed this book because of its characters and its STRONG beginning.
Review coming soon
In many ways this is a typical Anne Tyler book.
This just didn’t have the magic of her earlier novels like Saint Maybe and Breathing Lessons, and I don’t expect it to remain with me the way A Spool of Blue Thread did.
I still love Anne Tyler.
She has a canon of work worth reading and she has given the world some of the coolest, kookiest, loveable characters in American literature.
I don’t think the Baltimore of her imagination exists any more, but I like to think it once did.
This isn’t her greatest achievement, but it is still worth the read.
Two stars for an Anne Tyler novel? Sadly, yes. I simple couldn't connect with the main character or story. Even more disheartening, though: Tyler's Author Note, personal testimony: "At seven I came to the sad conclusion that I was constitutionally incapable of believing there was a God." For me, no sadder words could ever be uttered....
Fast forward to 2017, when the remarried Willa, now based in Arizona, gets a call informing her that her son’s ex-girlfriend has been shot and she needs to come look after her and her daughter and dog in Baltimore.It’s somewhat ironic that I just read Breathing Lessons earlier in the summer: Clock Dance is awfully similar to Tyler’s 1988 Pulitzer winner in that both protagonists are trying to make things right with their daughter-in-law and granddaughter figures.
Peter is impatient with the situation, but Willa feels purposeful for the first time in years, and before long she’s starting to think about Dorcas Road, with its lovably quirky set of neighbors, as home.
Or are we wound up by childhood experiences and genetics and parental models to whirl across the stage of a life we have no control over?This is the essence of Anne Tyler's novel Clock Dance, the story of Willa, a woman who comes at life slant, passive and bending.
She has never asserted her own needs, doing what is expected or what keeps others happy.A phone call from a stranger informs that her son's ex-girlfriend has been shot and the neighbor is tired of caring for the girlfriend's child, Cheryl.
Something very strange takes place early in Anne Tyler’s new novel, “Clock Dance.” A college student named Willa is flying home with her boyfriend when suddenly the man sitting on the other side of her whispers, “This is a gun, and it’s loaded.
Move and I shoot.”If former president Bill Clinton can write a thriller, why can’t Anne Tyler?
Just imagine it: The Bard of Baltimore at 76 leaving behind all those quirky family meals and taking to the skies with a white-knuckle adventure full of gore and derring-do.But.
.To read the rest of this review, go to The Washington Post:https://www.washingtonpost.com/entert...
[3.5 stars]I would not say this book was a disappointment, as I always love Anne Tyler's writing, especially her characters who are very relatable and always slightly quirky. And the beginning half of this was especially strong. But I lost that connection in the latter portion of the novel which was why it wavers between and 3 and 4 star read for me. If you like Anne Tyler, you'll like this one though. It's in the same vein as all of her works and has some wonderful moments, just not enough to make this a stellar read.
Genre: Literary FictionPublisher: Penguin Random HousePub. Date: July 10, 2018"Clock Dance," the latest novel by the author Anne Tyler, affectionately known as the bard of Baltimore, is filled with her familiar themes and quirky characters, but it is not up to par with her earlier works. The gist of the book is that the heroine has four defining moments of her life, which is categorized into four years. The reader only gets flashing glimpses of the first three defining moments, which is part-one
Genre:	 Literary FictionPublisher:	Penguin Random HousePub. Date:	July 10, 2018"Clock Dance," the latest novel by the author Anne Tyler, affectionately known as the bard of Baltimore, is filled with her familiar themes and quirky characters, but it is not up to par with her earlier works.
The gist of the book is that the heroine has four defining moments of her life, which is categorized into four years.
I enjoyed the novel though I am not sure that the threadbare writing, which she is known for, isn’t too bare in part-one.Part I: In 1967, our heroine is a schoolgirl wondering what happened to her unstable mom who has disappeared.
Lately, I've gone through a very fast run of mediocre audio books. I'm sure these books are perfectly fine to read in print, but they absolutely did not work for me to listen to and in most cases, I did not listen very long. Either the narrators are no bueno or the format of the book does not lend itself well to audio. I want to keep a list, so I won't try them again on audio.
Clock Dance is about time; how it moves and how it can get away from us. It’s sweet, warm, and funny, without ever sacrificing sharp writing and well-observed characters. It’s readable comfort food that reminds us it is not only possible to make a new way in life, but it’s never too late.
