https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/313809.Nature_Man_and_Woman
Can't go wrong with Alan Watts. Can't go right either. Opposites implied and all.
Watts says: "We know that the fish swim in constant fear of their lives, that they hang motionless so as not to be seen, and dart into motion because they are just nerves, startled into a jump by the tiniest ghost of an alarm.
We know that the 'love of nature' is a sentimental fascination with surface-that the gulls do not float in the sky for delight but in watchful hunger for fish, that the golden bees do not dream in the lilies but call as routinely for honey as collection agents for rent, and that the squirrels romping, as it seems, freely and joyously through the branches, are just frustrated little balls of appetite and fear.
Damn--over too soon. Watts describes and explains the alternatives to our often utilitarian, puritanical, guilt-ridden (and anything but spiritual) ways of thinking about love-making, and considers that, contrary to popular opinion, sex, the natural world, and spirituality need not be mutually exclusive at all-he doesn't denounce the celibacy of the spiritual seeker, but he doesn't see it as the only way. Taoism and Zen have always appealed to me, but Watts has a way of breathing life into his ideas in a uniquely approachable, intelligent, and considered way.
He suggest that in time and technological expansion that we will be increasingly isolated and find ourselves at odds with ourselves and the environment.
A noteworthy quote:"for the scientist, despite his theoretical naturalism, tends to regard nature, humans and otherwise, as a world to be conquered and reordered, to remain subject to the technology of the rational intellect, which has somehow disowned and shaken off its roots in the very organism it now presumes to improve.
In practice, the technical, rational consciousness is as alien to the natural man as was the supernatural soul."ya some heady man he was.
I didn't really start understanding the precepts of the middle way until, perhaps, high school.
I had tried like many others to understand buddhism by trying to read D.T. Suzuki's Understanding Zen (incredibly dry and complicated) or The Tibetan Book of the Dead (same as before only worse).
Alan Watts was the first writers/lecturers who could explain it in a way I can understand.
His lectures on tape are very informative to and all recorded in th fifties at this houseboat in Sausalitio for audiences of famous scholars like Ginsberg and George F.
Very easy to read contemplative chapters on Zen Buddhism, nature and sexuality with a non judgmental but definitely a 60’s era heteronormative point of view to things. If you are into this kind of thing.
While parts of this book were a little hard for me to wrap my brain around, not being a philosopher by trade or training, I still left the book riddled with sticky-tabs for later reference and inspiration.I started to quote my favorite passages, but not wanting to retype large swaths of the book, I erased it all.
It's hard to pull tidbits out of long, inter-connected thoughts without compromising the point of the quote.
And, on that note, that is exactly the point the author was trying to make, that we are all - man, woman, nature (both physical and non-physical) - connected at our core, and to extract any one part as separate is to rob it of the power and beauty of the whole.
This, along with The Book, were the two books Mother had by Alan Watts which I read at the end of high school and which got me interested enough to read other volumes by him as I encountered copies at used bookstores. These two volumes and the influence of a friend, Michael Miley, got me into the study of religion through the back door of Eastern mysticism despite strong prejudices against the whole concept of religion.
Free spirit beatnického hnutia ktorého plusom bol výrazný nádych intelektualizmu, kto to dočítal, hneď cítil výrazný nárast IQ. "Náboženské" prezentoval tak, aby bolo prístupné pre všetkých, na rozdiel od Bonda pretrepal a dobre zmiešal a podieľal sa na šírení spiritu New Age. Autor s výrazným sklonom k nadinterpretácii.
"I am God, you are God, everything is God, and God is a boundless and featureless, sea of dimly conscious tapioca pudding."
Přišlo mi trochu slabší než jiná autorova díla. Ty silnější myšlenky už jsem od něj četl jinde a ty nové mě tolik nechytaly.
Something like these words in this book caress so deeply, so profoundly, that it is difficult to describe how much of a gift it is..
Before opening this, I had a familiarity of some ideas about interdependant relationships and coherent, simultaneous expression of life in all its forms.
And, of course, this is explained in the book quite thoroughly.
Of all that is said it makes a huge amount of sense to see how we have become deceived and only have to be open to shredding back everything-completely everything-we think we know, and then accept that unknowing is really the basis and beginnings of exploration.
"Odata, cand copiii mei m-au intrebat ce este Dumnezeu, am raspuns ca Dumnezeu este interiorul cel mai adanc din fiecare lucru.""cand omul nepotrivit foloseste mijloacele potrivite, mijloacele potrivite actioneaza nepotrivit."
Watts writing is entertaining and educating. I'd like to say I understood everything in this book. But I didn't. And that's ok, because it is a book I'd happily reread.
This book changed my life. I can't wait to read it again. It's a tough read, but a book you almost underline in entirety.
So he goes on to argue how Christianity mainly gets the idea of sexuality wrong and contradicts itself and its dated notions of man being spirit and women being earthly, when it's all the same, baby, yeah.Then we get to the steamy bits on how all this relates to physical love.
Finally to close the book out he basically talks about tantra and how sex is a pairing of the body enabling a connection of consciousnesses, when if both opened properly and not grasping at orgasms, can lead to the deepest, most beautiful understanding of ourselves.Overall I enjoyed the Taboo book much more, I felt it was smoother, and I believe this book is an earlier one so I noticed a bunch of things were shined up for presentation by the time it made it to Taboo.

This turned out to be a 155 page tome for my tiny mind (the edition I have isn’t listed on goodreads, but it was 155 pages of densely printed text). I think it has taken me almost 6 weeks to get through it. Every paragraph - sometimes every sentence - I had to stop and reflect, and I STILL feel that I’ve only grasped this on a superficial level. Definitely going to have to revisit this one.
It did nothing for me. Felt like a rambling mess.
Radical and profound, this is Watts at his very best. Brilliant!
Second only to Watts' "The Wisdom of Insecurity" this title goes more deeply into our disconnect with nature, and in the process with ourselves.
If I could suggest the four main books by Watts which I enjoyed the most they would be "The Wisdom of Insecurity," "This is It," "The Book," and of course "Nature Man and Woman." This was an insightful, fun read that only seemed to move slowly when he went into the history of marriage and man's various roles he has been known to play while trying to maintain his relationship with the opposite sex.
Alan's interesting perspective on Buddhist philosophy and sex.
I think the most profound thing that I got from this book is that the typical "wait until marriage" "sex is for procreation only" or "absitinence" view of sex is just another type of sexuality.
All humans exhibit some form of sexual habit, and express their own sexuality through their habits.
the point is, these are all sexual preferences on a sexual spectrum.
It's kind of interesting to think that the standard Christian view of sex is just another form of sexuality, albeit a pretty repressed one.
This book was just what I needed to read when I read it. I love when that happens. It reminded me of just what part of myself has been neglected thus far in my life.... instinct, feeling (as opposed to logical thinking) and helped me relax around 'knowing' and remind me I have an 'understanding' of a different sort when I can tune it in. And written in a beautiful style, not at all academic or verbose, but beautiful and evocative and occasionally poetic in the same way as the subject he describes.
Alan Watts demands your mind and soul in this book. And I mean REALLY. Readers cannot be halfway there, almost awake, kinda into it. His brain is complex. His comprehension of the deeper layers of humanity and struggle with everything from religion to sexuality is delusion-shattering and beautiful. This is another book I have read but will always have sitting nearby with a page marked by notes. This is read and currently always reading. He's that gifted.
As a polemic to Christianity it's rather weak. But as a way to expand intellectual and spiritual horizons, it offers invaluable insight and new perspectives. While the initial chapters and arguments were subjective and narrow, the latter sections incorporated many different beliefs and principles to build a well-balanced structure for developments in my personal spiritual life.
I love Alan Watts; this book, however, feels a bit dated. So far, I'm not really getting much out of it that I don't either already agree with, and what I don't agree with, it's often because it seems to me a bit naïve and uninformed due to the era he was writing in. Time will tell as I work through it.
The master! This work is pretty dense and it takes some work but it is worth it. Watts develops some ideas that I have seen in his work before but here in great detail. The writings of this man have changed my life. He never ceases to amaze me with hi intellect and his grasp of the human condition! Great stuff
I could be strangled by scientific knowledge. This book describes truth, and the need to feel to know. This book gives me the courage to strive for life without inner conflict, but rest with the paradox that life wouldn't exist without contradictions.
Always good to read Watts. This book is a bit more philosophical and goes into comparing christianity with hindu and taoist traditions. He also poses interesting questions on sexuality and how occidental civilization has come about to it's current belief systems.
Thoughtful meditations from a Zen and Taoist philosopher on issues during the Free Love era. I would be interested to hear a feminist commentary, since Watts gives women privilege of place, but little agency.
