https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/131133.Mind_Over_Matter
It is a straight romance with paranormal overtones, but the paranormal plays no direct part in the story.
Since straight romance is not my favorite genre, I had a tough time getting into this story of two strong willed people finding their way to their HEA.
J. Fields is a very successful Theatrical Agent who represents her mother, Clarissa DeBasse, for a TV documentary where her mother's physic abilities will featured.
Aurora has a really tough time letting go of a past romantic experience and the control she values so highly and it almost ends up costing her the love of her life.
Another reason I was not so impressed with this book - the complete title is Mind over Matter a Passionate and Intriguing Novel of suspense.
I guess it depends on one's definition of suspense.Mind over Matter is a romance book with some paranormal elements thrown in.
He meets and instantly forms a friendship with Clarissa, a woman with psychic abilities who has helped solve crimes in the past.
Clarissa makes a comment in passing about a romance David will enter and that he will need tenderness to make the relationship work.
The heroine here was a P.I.A. Not one of my favorite Nora Roberts' books. An early one.
3.75 stars - My review cross-posted from Wit and Sin: http://witandsin.blogspot.com/2017/07...In  Mind Over Matter  a hardworking theatrical agent meets her match in a producer who isn’t afraid to knock down the walls she has around her heart. A.J. Fields has worked for years to become one of the most successful agents in Hollywood. She’s smart and has a spine of steel, so when David Brady wants to use psychic Clarissa DeBasse – A.J.’s most important client – in his new documentary, A.J. isn’t a
a hardworking theatrical agent meets her match in a producer who isn’t afraid to knock down the walls she has around her heart.
David is used to being demanding in his work life and noncommittal in his personal life, but the longer he’s around A.J., the more he finds his attitude toward relationships changing.
to be a good comfort read fans of Nora Roberts are sure to like.FTC Disclosure: I received this book for free from the publisher in exchange for an honest review.
I've read 116 of her books (NR+J.D. Robb) according to Goodreads and there were only 4 that I didn't like.
Now to the book, I loved the characters and the plot.
I don't think I've read this much in depth emotion in any new books.
I don't know how describe it but I felt I understood why the characters did and felt what they did.I had guessed the few plot twist from the start, still they added something more to the story.My only problem in the beginning was that POV would change from one paragraph to the next even from sentence to sentence.
But I got used to it and actually enjoyed the constant POV change.This was definitely a book that worth reading even if it's 30 years old.
Actual Rating: 3.5 StarsSee full review at HarlequinJunkie.comOriginally released in 1987, Mind Over Matter is a reissued Nora Roberts romance that reminded me of the Harlequins I grew up reading and had me remembering just how much fun they were to lose myself in for a few hours.Oh, the 80s.
It was entertaining to take a step back in time and read a romance set in a world before cell phones and social media, where even though our main characters were busy in their challenging careers, the pace didn’t seem as frenetic as it does today.
Read More
Nora Roberts is a favorite of mine.
Aurora (AJ) is an agent for her mother Clarissa, who is a psychic.
David wants to interview Clarissa for a TV documentary that she is doing.
Both AJ and David are loners and not really interested in commitment.
Wile David was likable, AJ annoyed me.
She is one of those people who expect the worst to happen at any time, so she never allows herself to live.
For people in love, they really don't like to talk to one another.
While not the best, it is still a Nora Roberts book.
It had its moments. Very typical romance book.
AN oldie but a five star book to be sure from Roberts, the best fiction/romance author on the market today! A little mystery, a little of the paranormal and who lot of romance and heat and this is another title that delivers on all the points I look for in a book" character, plot, story telling and dialogue that sounds as if I'm hearing it said in my head. As a Netgalley arc, it was a pleasure to read this and review it.
A reissue, but still a great read!… Read More. . .  http://www.romanceswithalittlekick.co...
Meh. The hero was arrogant and presumptuous and the heroine was weak. Blergh. I liked Clarissa, Alex needed more developing, and I didn't really care if AJ and David got their HEA.
Setting: Los Angeles,California – on the set, in her apartment, in her office in Century City, at her mother’s house, at his home in the hills.Theme: love, acceptance, overcoming fearCharacters:Clarissa DeBasse- a sensitive (a psychic), been involved in a few high profile cases. Genuine, gentle, scatterbrained.David Brady – successful producer of thoughtful documentaries. Handsome, rules on relationships to keep a certain distance, Aurora “A.J” Fields – agent, with a good number of well known ac
They each have relationship rules, and both are afraid to cross the boundary… but both want more, but are afraid to be the first to reveal their feelings… David is a bit confused when he learns of her psychic ability, but knows he can’t be away from her… when he wants her to tell him she loves him, and she doesn’t (but he’s not willing to say it first)… and tries to backdoor it with suggesting they move in together… and gets upset when she doesn’t immediately jump on it, they have 2 weeks without seeing one another… and meet over Clarissa’s wedding… and Clarissa gently pushes them both to be honest and focused on their emotions,… and they do… ahhh
Going in to this, I knew it was a reprint of an older Nora Roberts but I was all "It's Nora Roberts and I almost always love everything she writes.
How bad can it be?" Answer?
Pretty bad.
At least her heroines are always strong, but this is truly a quickie romance novel in every aspect.
There's not of the conflict and tension I'm used to reading in her books.
I mean, there's conflict and tension, but it didn't seem realistic and more created just to add some drama to the book.
I don't love all her books.
You want a good Nora Roberts book?
Dit boek heeft weinig om het lijf maar het leest heerlijk weg. Zeker in combinatie met zon, zee & strand!
Decent book. It was a bit weird changing from David to A.J. throughout the reading. One paragraph was David's, another was A.J.'s. It was another of Nora's earlier books.
Another good one for Nora Roberts. Once again creating characters that I would like to sit and have a cup of coffee with!!
I love Nora Roberts, she is one of my fave authors! I loved this book from start to finish.I love the characters and the story.
Good bookGreat story and great characters. I would recommend tthis book o anyone who likes Nora Roberts romance novels. I wonder if there will be a sequel.
Title: Mind Over Matter Author: Nora Roberts Publisher: Harlequin Published: 7-17-2017 Pages: 218 Genre: Romance Sub-Genre: Suspense, Mystery, Contemporary Romance, ISBN: 9781488027062 ASIN: B07226MLSP Reviewed For NetGalley and Harlequin Reviewer: DelAnne Rating: 4.25 Stars David Brady needs a star for his documentary on paranormal psychology.
When he finds out theatrical agent A.J. Fields has a psychic for a client, he’s thrilled.
I read this originally years ago when it was first published.
When they decide the growing attraction becomes the center of importance.
Amazon Link: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B07226MLSP/...
B&N Link: https://www.barnesandnoble.com/w/mind...
Books-A-Million Link: http://www.booksamillion.com/p/Mind-O...
Google Play Link: https://play.google.com/store/books/d...
Kobo Link: https://www.kobo.com/us/en/ebook/mind...
Mind Over Matter, A Passionate and Intriguing Novel of Suspense, Nora RobertsReview from Jeannie Zelos book reviewsGenre: RomanceI've read a few of Nora's stories over the years, both as Nora Roberts and JD Robb, but not for a while, so I thought it would be fun to dip back into her world.
This was a fun read, touched upon the supernatural world with Clarissa being a psychic, and I enjoyed it but it wasn't one that kept me gripped to the page, with that can't put down feel.
I enjoyed it but it won't be one I'd re-read as I have others from this author.
I found the sixth sense aspect of this story very interesting, both Clarissa's openness with it and A.J.'s determination to supress it.
It was a very interesting book and I absolutely loved Clarissa's character and her whirlwind romance with Alex.
He is a good man who truly cares for Clarissa with no ultieror motives (something difficult for A.J. to recognize and accept).
I would have loved it the story continued past where it did and we got to see more of A.J.'s personal reckoning and emotional growth and how David plays into it and helps her and loves her unconditionally.
It’s always a pleasure reading Nora Roberts and I will honestly admit that I can be totally biased where she is concerned.
And in my opinion, no reviews can do justice to her stories.“Mind Over Matter” is a republish and it is very nice visiting her characters, David Brady and A.J. Fields, total opposites that destiny seems to bring them together.
Nora Roberts is a master at weaving stories of intrigue and passion.
Add in a couple of surprises and “Mind Over Matter” is a pleasure read of suspense, love and family.Received an ARC from Harlequin Romance via NetGalley for an honest review.
It stands the test of time if you can overlook the smoking and no cellphones 😁I used to read A LOT of Nora Roberts when I was young, she was one of my favourite authors.
I would have been impressed then, an I’m still impressed now.I like how the development of the relationship between the main characters went.
I have also just realised, that Nora Roberts does not use the “evil other woman” device to build angst in the story.
Usually it’s the personalities of the characters and their lack of communication which creates tension rather than an OW conflict.
"One Cannot Negotiate Love"In this tale of romance and intrigue, David Brady needs a performer for his documentary on paranormal psychology.
He learns his agent has a psychic client, A.J. Fields, and becomes thrilled.
But A.J. has some concerns about the well known psychic working with David's producer who is a skeptic.
David thinks A.J.'s icy thoughts are just a front.
She must have some secrets of her own and he wants to know those secrets.
This novel is totally enjoyable which has humor, romance, great characters, and trust issues.
You can always rely on Nora's stories to be great and entertaining.
Romantic, Caring, Frightened people Trying I know that her later books are deeper, more complex stories, but this book held me enthralled.
The relationship between Aurora and her mother was lovely, too.
The role reversal seemed natural and caring.
The masterpiece of the story, of course was how the relationship between Aurora and David developed.
Neither of them wanted to fall in love or even have a long-term relationship.
Work and a desire to protect their feelings were too important to each of them.
The question was if they could act on what they thought was important.
This book was originally published in 1994 and I should have suspected that I had read it before but the description on NetGalley didn't sound familiar.
While it feels a wee bit dated, this book actually isn't too bad for being 23 years old.
Hero David Brady is a little alpha-male-ish but it's not any worse than some of the more recent books I've read.
But she's reluctant to put Clarissa to yet another battery of tests.
And she's even more reluctant to explore the draw she's feeling for David.
I really need to stop reading books from the last century.
The heroes are such assholes.
It grated on my nerves every time he pursued her after she kept telling him she wasn't interested.
I don't know if it's my life experience or the #metoo movement and greater awareness of just how much BS women have put up with through out history but I can no longer tolerate heroes like this.
I need a hero that treats a woman like an equal, trusts that she knows her own mind and supports her decisions.
This is a re-release of a Nora Roberts old favourite.
Even if you didn’t know this, you would be able to tell as nothing within the storyline has been updated.
Maybe it’s just me, but I was quite shocked when the characters were smoking.
In my opinion, no-one quite manages ‘supernatural’ and its other magical forms quite like Nora Roberts.
As a shorter novel, this is an easy read that can be consumed within a couple of hours.It has the expected engaging dialogue between characters and an engaging storyline which is, albeit predictable, still enjoyable.
Oh this did not age well.
Both characters annoyed me.
She says no.
He forces a rough, angry kiss.
She says, "I don't want this".
He says "I don't care".
She struggles against him.
He cages her up against the wall.
She caves, because of course she can't understand her own emotions.
Seriously?
This is romance?
Add in the anger issues (sorry, "passion") both of them seem to have, and red flags were flying all over this relationship.
The only character I liked was the mother.
She had an interesting story and a level head.
Overall, this entire read was cringeworthy.
This is one of Nora Robert's first books published by Silhouette in 1987. It's fun to read now with no cell phones and people actually had to visit and arrange times to call and meet. I'm sure I read this book when it first came out. The romance is still good with Aurora protecting her psychic mother when producer David wants to produce a documentary on ESP phenomenon. One glaring sign of the times is the hero smoked, almost unheard of today.
