https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16255.Tales_of_the_City
Tales of the City is not great literature.
In what is the first and best book in a six-part series constructed from a serial column in the San Francisco Chronicle, Tales of the City is smart, guilty entertainment at its best.
But like, say, Six Feet Under, Tales of the City purports to be little more than a creative and intelligent soap opera.
A setting -- San Francisco -- that Maupin gives an almost pop-up book feel.
Tales of the City is an escapist read.
And itself an exercise in escapism -- using what San Francisco represents in the popular imagination to open wide a world of freedom and possibility within its pages, and without.
Authentic pluses include the kitschyness inherent in a Pedro Almodovar comedy, and even some of the picaresque qualities of my all-time fave, "Confederacy of Dunces." It is about this enthusiastic selection of promiscuous pre-80's San Franners.
Ultimately, "Tales" offers entertainment in dollops, and informs the reader about age-old queries, like are Michael and Mona prototypes for 90's favorite fag-faghag TV couple Jack & Karen?
What is a c***ring (heteros, take note [it is quite tiresome to explain this time and again])?
Tales include hetero/homo sexual prowlers, nifty ways to pay the rent, and ever-clever and -ironic plot twists in this sweet escape.And the immoral sinners are, ooh very, very CHARMING.
my favorite of Maupin's books - a time capsule to San Fran 1976...
I think I am either too old or too young to fully appreciate this book.
If I were older, I might appreciate the groundbreaking nature of its matter-of-fact approach to a variety of characters of different sexuality and gender at a time when social mores were drastically changing.
And if I were younger, I might be totally enchanted by all the entertaining drama, good and bad and self-absorbed, that comes with being young, single and in your twenties in a big city.
But I wasn't able to really connect with the characters, who seemed fairly one-dimensional to me, for all that they were supposed to be exactly the opposite.
Having recently read the latest in the series, Mary Ann in Autumn, I wanted to re-read the entire series.
Unfortunately, I am so familiar with the first three books, which were also made into TV adaptations, that I know the stories and most of the dialogue off by heart, so I can't get the same, mind-blowing enjoyment that I did on my first reading.
I STILL want to grow up to be like Anna Madrigal!
This series really was way ahead of its time.But it’s not just satire or the book's prescience that keeps us reading; it’s the hopes and dreams of its characters and the friendships they form under the gabled roof of their unique abode; it’s the sense of fun and excitement that you get in moving to a new city and meeting cool new people – even if you’ve only moved there as a reader.So go ahead and add me to the huge list of Armistead Maupin fans.
This is a dangerous thing for a character driven novel to do."Tales of the City" felt like a soap opera to me, not at all the interesting character study so many have made it out to be.My advice, read E.L. Doctorow instead for great realistic characters.Or, if you want the San Francisco setting, then read Christopher Moore's vampire series set in San Fran.
This series might not be considered "great literature", but at least you recognize the characters and see their humanity.As for the "Tales of the City" volumes...my trip through those tales is cut short.
Speedy and stagy, the tales breeze by in a kaleidoscopic blur: Maupin interweaves disparate narrative threads with such ease that you hardly register how elaborate the plot actually is, until you've finished it.
i really don't get what all the fuss is about. this is some kind of modern classic? the writing is so pedestrian, it's like i fell into a deep sleep and somehow continued reading. B-O-R-I-N-G ... P-R-O-S-E still, an extra star because of the surprisingly intricate narrative. and that said, i think the miniseries was far more distinctive and interesting.
I think about...some things...1) Could I have liked it more if I had read it shortly after the release date.
2) Could I have liked it more if I hadn't' read Boystown series ?
BEFORE reading Tales of the City I was sure that Jake Biondi has discovered a totally new genre.
Means---> No doubt.
Sure.I hate dislike this character.
She is just out-most BORING and she occupies much too much plot for my liking.
And I'm not very eager to read the next book ASAP.
The ending was a let down for me though - a pretty major incident occurs and it's basically just laughed off by the main characters who then return to being self-fluffing meddlesome pseudo-libertines.It is well written though and clearly set a bench mark precedent for Sex and City and possibly even Californication both of which deal with writers producing serialised works about the state of the nations sex lives while doing a bit of navel gazing and attempting to get laid themselves.
I didn't actually read this book, but it was rather read to me, and the person who did the reading truly brought it to life - I don't think I would have loved this book so much if I had read it on my own.I've always loved books with complicated, multi-layered, engaging characters and this one definitely offers that.
I'm happy in calling this book one of my favorites because, overall, it has all I want a book to have: great characters, exquisite story, musicality and fluidity and the engrossment factor.
So glad I picked this book up! Such an easy but enjoyable read and the characters are brilliant! Can't wait to start the second in the series.
1970s' classic about a ragtag group of San Francisco residents figuring out what the hell they're doing amongst sex, drugs, and an occasional party. Good. Well-worth a glance.
Macrame wall-hangings, home-made face masks, sprouted avocado plants – this might sound like the contents page of a contemporary women’s magazine but in Tales of the City, 1970s San Franciscans did it first.
They did a lot of things actually.
They took a lot of drugs.
They frequented bath houses.
They talked about having sex – and sometimes they even had it.
I loved so much about this book.
There are many characters whose stories run parallel and often cross, sometimes in unexpected, (if not always believable) ways.
Reading Tales of the City is a glimpse backwards into a lost - pre-AIDS, pre-internet - era.
I’m such a poser.Anyway, NOW I’ve read it.The first entry in Maupin's nine volume series about a collection of San Francisco residents in the 1970's, it was originally published as a newspaper serial (I know, it seems like something quaintly Victorian now) so each chapter is only 2-3 pages long.
She rents a room from eccentric, pot-growing landlady Anna Madrigal, who has a colorful tenant named Mona who works at an advertising firm who needs a secretary.
The characters were so paper thin, my nine-year-old niece could probably create something with more depth.I know my thoughts on this book won't be popular, as it's the type of thing that has gained a huge cult following over the years, but for the life of me, i cannot understand how people enjoy these works even on an ironic level.
i suppose if you enjoy supermarket romance novels or reading letters to porn magazines, this would be suitable entertainment, but let's not pretend that this actually rises beyond that kind of level.
The beginnings of the crazy, pot smoking city dwellers as they live their lives and look for jobs, love, and happiness still resonates with humor, quirky characters, and a timeless elegance that keeps this series in style no matter what year it’s read.
These are just a few of the outstanding portraits painted by Maupin.Alongside the memorable characters that will have you hooked on this series, there is the equally important and stunning setting of San Francisco and the political climate of the time.
These aren’t stories about gay or straight men and women in a city during the 70’s but more so all of its quirky, fabulously insane people that work, live, and love together.
Most of the characters are looking for love, in one way or another, and it was set in a time before AIDS and HIV had appeared.The book doesn’t have a definite plot as such; instead it’s presented as a series of vignettes, tiny glimpses into the characters’ lives and their interactions with each other.
It kind of feels like a gossip column at times – kind of fluffy and escapist – but still manages to be a good read.Also it’s worth mentioning that this book was pretty groundbreaking for the time it was written in, featuring characters of a variety of sexualities and gender-identification in a matter-of-fact way.One of the things I thought was, if not annoying, then certainly bizarre, was how all the characters were intertwined.
Der letzte Teil, mit dem ich seinerzeit nicht viel anfangen konnte und in die Kiste mit den guten Vorsätzen verschob.Beim Umräumen fiel er mir unlängst wieder in die Hände und angesichts der Alternative abstoßen oder mir den Rest besorgen, entschied ich mich dafür, den gesamten Zyklus einmal unter die Lupe zu nehmen, auch wenn es sich wohl nicht um das zeitlose Meisterwerk handelte, das mir etwa 120 Merkhefte verkaufen wollten.Der erste Teil ist ziemlich locker und mit sehr viel Mut zur Lücke geschrieben, eher wie Murgers Boheme und keinesfalls wie Balzac.
Eine ehemalige Mitschülerin von Mary-Anne, die beim Finale zu Weihnachten als Notnagel für Brian herhalten oder hinhalten muss.
A friend at work told me about this book. He said it was a trip to read. It was a trip to read but I really liked it. Looking forward to reading the sequel.
During my trip to San Francisco, I kept thinking, "If I see any of the characters, I will kick them in the nuts." I'm missing a lot because I didn't read this in 1978, when having half the characters be gay was revolutionary.
Also, I missed a lot of punchlines because I didn't know the specific brand of clothing to which the author was referring.
Then we'd read Alison Bechdel together and I'd point to the sign in the background that says "One Night Only: Woman with a Guitar!" and we'd snicker.
This is a fascinating story which rambles through the lives of a group of people living in San Francisco.
What is fascinating is that as the story progresses it reveals different aspects of the people involved.
The reader gets to see the hidden life.The story is a kind of journey of discovery in the way it slowly reveals the characters as they make their way through life and through the ups and downs of life in San Francisco.I thought it was interesting and a good read but it doesn't interest me enough to read others in the series, not just yet.
By the end of the book, it felt like a lot of them were old friends, and I loved that aspect of the book.At times, just due to the clubs and bars that were frequented, I felt like I was reading a novelisation of something akin to "The Birdcage", a fabulous gay comedy starring Robin Williams and Nathan Lane.
Brilliant.There were some serious aspects to the book, and some definite straight-laced characters, but overall this was a brilliant little read.
The Tales of the City series might be one of the closest texts my community has to a biblical/historical record: those characters can still be found in San Francisco, so reading about them makes me nostalgic all the time.
What I love best about these books, actually, is their capacity, time and again, to convert what seems to be nothing more than a campy murder/crime mystery into a political, human rights enigma.
I can't read these books without wishing I was back home there myself.
It houses the landlady Mrs Madrigal, the sassy Mona, bravado talking Brian, romantic Michael and it's newest member all the way from Cleveland - Mary-Ann. And thus begins the stories of those at 28 Barbary Lane.This novel was so intriguing that I couldn't wait to pick it up inbetween my breaks.
It was so easy to read and damn it was funny - like 'hardy har har i'm laughing in the street out loud' funny.
Having been to SF three times now, I loved reading about the city and how the suburbs and places the novel describes are still there.
And I cannot wait to read the others in this series.
it was a fine tale of intertwining lives of motley characters living in san francisco in the 70s...it's dated but it's meant to be.
it feels like a game of 'spot the landmark', and makes me miss living in san francisco, though it's just been a few weeks since i left.
also, the end feels a bit rushed and almost absurdly blasé about a few events, but i'm sure they are expanded upon in 'more tales of the city', etc.
not a bad read, but not especially unique or interesting, though it can be fun for those who live in or are familiar with the Bay Area.
Memorable characters and crazy good dialogue. Loved Mona. Really enjoyed Michael. But my favorite character had to be Brian! I'll be reading more of these tales in the months to come.In his remarkable feminist, humanist, ground breaking tale, Maupin really truly captured both a city, its corky, horny, funny, and caring people, as well as an era long gone now.Made me wish I was there with them. Don't we all wish we could go to sleep under Mrs. Madrigal's roof?
But still it peaked my interest.A few years later while dog sitting for my brother in Boston I went into a quaint little book store that is no longer and found the hardcover '28 Barbary Lane' containing the first three 'Tales' books and bought it.
Later on, back in Boston for another dog sitting weekend that quaint book store was having a going out of business sale and I couldn't find the follow up 'Back to Barbary Lane'.
During last years Boarders closeout sales I got all of the original 6 novels in paperback (better to travel with).Then this spring I was given a nook and the 1st book I downloaded was 'Tales' with the following 7 books in the series.
"Il tipico fan dei "Racconti di San Francisco" è semplicemente una persona felice di essere se stessa -comunque essa sia- e di lasciare che gli altri si esprimano altrettanto liberamente". Armistead MaupinPer chi ha amato la prosa folle, eccentrica e libera di John Kennedy Toole, per chi vuole camminare nella San Francisco degli anni '70, per chi vuole rilassarsi, per chi ama i dialoghi brillanti e i sentimenti non confezionati. Leggetelo e spassatevela!
