https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/167069.Drums_Along_the_Mohawk
Drums Along the Mohawk is a book-length expansion of the premise behind The Matchlock Gun. Indians attack.
Mixed in with the fictional characters, such as Gil and Lana, are a who's who of late-18th century New York history: Nicholas Herkimer, George Weaver, Adam Helmer, and Captain Demooth.
About the only time Edmonds really cuts loose is with John Wolffe, who is present at Cherry Valley, is imprisoned by the Americans, and later makes a daring escape.
Edmonds is so set on this view, that he propounds a wild story in which Walter Butler, the hated and reviled Tory Ranger, is actually depicted as trying to stop his Indians from massacring settlers at Cherry Valley.
It also reflects a strong new current of interest, in the American historical fiction of this era (written in the shadow of rising European totalitarianism and perceived threats to democracy) in the period of the American founding --the Revolutionary War origins of our democratic and constitutional tradition.New Yorker Edmonds provides a panoramic description of the effects of the Revolution on the lives of the people of the state's central Mohawk Valley --both white and red, and both Patriot and Tory.
This should be required reading for New York state grammar or high school students the year they study the Revolutionary War. It follows a young couple and their community throughout the war period. The battles, betrayals, babies born and lost, farms and houses burned, people and animals slaughtered, solders killed and captured, daring raids, prisoners of war, native friends and foes, are portrayed in a clear prose style. The stories of historical and fictional characters weave together. I finished it wanting to know more about the time period.
Nearly 80 years old, this classic is still enjoyable.
We experience the hardscrabble life of these characters and a feel for the American Revolution as fought in this area, along with Indian attacks and destruction.
Mrs. McKlennar, the feisty old woman who befriends Gil and Lana after their farm is burned down, is unforgettable.
The New York Times called her an "Amazon." This novel is a "must-read" for anyone wanting to get more of an understanding of the American Revolution, especially in Upper New York State, considered the frontier at that time.
Very good portrayals of Oriskany, the Cherry Valley Massacre, Andrustown.
This is great old-school story-telling and great historical fiction.
You certainly get caught up with the characters, most of them not fictionalized but real historical people, as are most of the events in the book.
And what the Revolutionary War was like fought on that frontier, with bloody terrifying skirmishes between settler-farmers and British irregulars and their Indian allies.
And how the war often pitted neighbor against neighbor.
We think of that with the American Civil War, but the Revolutionary War did that too, with often terrible and tragic personal consequences.
What can I say; I love old-timey shit.
This book is pretty awesome because it explores how confusing and contentious the Revolutionary War times must have been.
I never thought before about how early settlers must have been real human beings, who liked some people, and not others, who didn't know what they were talking about regarding Native Americans, and who weren't necessarily too excited about fighting the British and making a new nation here.
There's a chilly woman in the story named Mrs. DeMuth.
I nominate her as the fictional character most similar to my former sister-in-law.
This a a good historical novel about the struggles of our early settlers.
The two most predominant characters, Gil and Lana Martin, are newlyweds who are, at the beginning of the book, going to live on Gil's new land.
Only today, the presence of two Indians in front of the local store, run by Gil's neighbor John Wolff, prompts the militia to go and investigate the store and the area, leading to the arrest of Wolff, who was known to be a loyalist, for treason.Soon after, Lana is introduced to Gil's friend, an old native american named Blue Black who later warns Gil and his fellow settlers that a raiding party is headed their way.
The captain finds him a job working for a widow on her farm and in her fields, and Lana will help her with sewing and house chores.
After the baby is born, they stay with Mrs. McKlennar for a while longer and then decide to try to start their life again and build their own home near the Mohawk Valley.
If I had to suggest this book to a certain group of people I would suggest it to anyone who is interested in reading stories about the Revolutionary War and how life was back then.
Gil and Lana are the main characters throughout the whole book.
Then later in the story the British army attacks the fort and burns down all the nearby houses leaving the people starving throughout the winter.
This conflict between the British and the people in the fort continues on basically through the end of the book, and is the main conflict of the whole entire book.I enjoyed some parts in this book, such as the war scenes, due to the descriptiveness, it made you feel like you were actually there experiencing the battle first hand.
For the most part, I really enjoyed this historical novel of the Revolutionary War period.
The description of the battle at Oriskany is factual and tragic; our family has visited both Oriskany Battlefield and Fort Stanwix.The reader is caught up with Magdalena's story as she marries, works alongside her husband Gil in clearing and planting land, only to see it destroyed by the British and Senecas.
However the author did give the other side with the story of John Wolff and his unfair trial and imprisonment.
This author did not 'sugarcoat' what life was like on the frontier and there are attitudes that were, sadly, common during this time period.
Syracuse, where I now live, was still Indian territory and Herkimer was the western frontier of the colonies at the time of the revolutionary war.
I remember a scene, a race to warn the colonists that reinforcements were needed - a cross country marathon where the scout is chased by 4 war painted natives with tomahawks through the woods.
If the Indians win, there will be no reinforcements and the settlement may be overrun.
At first Lana is skeptical, but after she meets the neighbors and lives in the house for a while, she feels as if she belongs there.
They live there for a long time, until the Indians get to close for comfort, they finally move into a fort.This book was really a great read.
I really like the action that the Indians gave, the action from war.
I also liked how the author really made me feel as if I were there with them, in the hard times and the good.
It was one of the best books that I read in a long time.
Excellent. Since I now live in the Mohawk Valley and all the place names are familiar to me, this book really came alive. Edmonds packs in the history and develops his characters as well. I now scan the woods for Indians. Seriously, the valley has not changed all that much. It's still largely farmed, population is scarce(compared to shoreline Connecticut)and the family names are still the same. Only weeks ago, the Palatine Church re-enacted the wedding of Gil and Lana Martin, not unusual for an area that, although economically poor, continues to celebrate its rich history.
An amazing experience that can be enhanced with reading ForgottenAllies about the role of the Oneidas in the Battle of Oriskany.The familiar movie with Henry Fonda does not match the fine book in style or substance.I have read several articles about the Battle of Oriskany and the author is amazingly accurate with the exception of not giving ample credit to the Oneidas for their bravery and sacrafice.
One of those American classics that should be read.
This book tells the story of the American Revolution as experienced by the settlers along the New York State frontier - then more or less between what's now Syracuse to the west and, at a guess, what the map shows at Fort Herkimer to the east, near the Mohawk.
Most of the characters in the novel are historic figures; the fictional characters depict the long, long battle between the people on the frontier and their allies against the British and most of the Iroquois people.
I also disliked the relationship between the husband and wife; I think because their personalities were so vague, I couldn't engage with them in their difficulties, and their squabbles came across as petty and forced.
One benefit that I saw to this story is that the author inserted little every-day details that the people of the time would have dealt with (e.g.-the way that the women kept their floors cleaned).
While I found these little details to be interesting, I didn't think the book worth finishing in order to glean these tidbits.
Drums Along the Mohawk has to be one of the great book titles ever.
The title tells it all.
Settlers vs the Indians in the Mohawk Valley of upper NY state during the Revolutionary War. It is full of terroristic activities on both sides.
Lots of attacks, burnings and scalpings.
There are some really interesting critiques of Drums Along the Mohawk on Goodreads.
But it was a book in the same genre Northwest Passage by Kenneth Roberts that turned me into an avid reader always looking for that next great book.
Drums would have worked the same way.
This book was written in the late 1930's and probably inspired that generation to greatness for their upcoming fight in WWII. Drums Along the Mohawk shows the sacrifice it took to make the United States and how people in small towns and villages are willing to persevere in reaching their dreams of land, peace and freedom for themselves and their children. If you don't feel like reading the book, catch the movie with Henry Fonda. It leaves out a few parts, but gives a feel of the author's theme and lyricism.
Interesting story of the time, but clearly dated in treatment of women and people of colorI enjoyed the history and many of the characters, especially as someone who lives in Upstate New York. It was hard to tell if the misogyny and racism, though, were representations consistent with the historical period portrayed, or a product of the author’s time period of the 1930s.
Much better than I expected. The resiliency and determination of the settlers who lived in the Mohawk Valley during the Revolutionary War was amazing. The conditions were pretty brutal. I'm not sure what kept them there. If you like historical fiction, don't let the rather dry title hold you back. Warning: written in the 1930s--use of the n word. Racism pretty accepted.
Fairly boring. You have to really be a fan of this genre and time period to get through this one. I guess it's an old classic and I'm glad I finally read it but there was really zero "wow" moments with this book.
I read this because it’s based in the area where my Mom grew up in upstate New York; however, I didn’t enjoy it. The tone was rather misogynistic and I felt like parts of the story dragged on for longer than necessary.
An amazing historical novel, without all the romanticizing so often featured in the genre. Well researched and well written. Hard to put aside the feelings engendered by the book once I have put the book itself aside.
This book is full of historical places, people, and events during the revolutionary war. Hardships that were endured by the characters were really tough! An excellent, educational read! I learned so much about the beginnings of our nation.
Such an amazing history told so beautifully! It’s long but worth it
I loved this book. It satisfied my time travel fantasy.
Does a great job of immersing the reader into time and place, but was a bit boring and anti-climactic.
I found myself rooting for the characters through all their hardships.
