https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/295000.Cutting_Through_Spiritual_Materialism
This time, it's a reminder of what I love most about the Buddhist approach to the awakened state: that it's something that always exists, not something we need to try to create.
Over the last year or so, I've seen (and been part of) so much striving and so much reaching, working, studying intensely, and taking Oh So Seriously the spiritual life ~ an approach that, of course, only confuses matters.
We do not consider how we are going to vomit; we just vomit. Chögyam Trungpa was a charismatic and controversial figure in the Western popularization of Buddhism. As a teenager in Tibet, Trungpa fled the Chinese in an escape that involved swimming across a river under gunfire, climbing the Himalayas, and running so short of food that he had to eat his leather belt and bag. Eventually he emigrated to the United States, where he founded several schools, and pioneered a secular interpretation of B
We also attempt to analyze ourselves: we use literature, psychology, drugs, prayer, and meditation to achieve a sense of self-consciousness, an awareness of who we are.
And yet many who embark on the spiritual path see meditation as a battle with the ego, an attempt to break certain habits, to overcome certain mentalities, to free themselves from illusions.
Again, I think Trungpa would respond that even the ideas of ‘knowledge’ and 'truth' are dualistic (they involves the sense of ‘me’ knowing 'something else'), and thus this idea is not applicable to the enlightened.Putting all this aside, it’s worth asking whether this ego-less state is even desirable.
Sometimes the delusion is more subtle, like believing that following a teacher absolves the student of any kind of responsibility and power, that once there's been an enlightenment experience one doesn't need to work on themselves anymore, or simply the arrogance that having encountered insight makes one better than other people.Trungpa was a Tibetan monk, and while he loved the tradition he was initiated in, he also understood that some aspects of it could be distracting traps, especially for Western students (who live in a society where physical materialism is incredibly sophisticated), and he wanted to give them a strong understanding of the core of Buddhism - which really isn't about pretty flags, bells and other shiny things.
"Disappointment is the best chariot to use on the path of the dharma."This book is a record of a series of talks Trungpa gave to students in the early 70's.
It could be thought of as an example of Trungpa's ruthless compassion or "crazy wisdom." Reading this book is certainly a jarring experience - the reader is severed from the comfort of previous ideas and hopes.
This is not done to be cruel, though - it is a matter of being open and aware, and of using humor and wisdom in relating to the world as it is.Once again, I would definitely recommend this book to anyone interested in Buddhism, meditation, or matters of spirituality - it is an excellent and refreshing introduction that begs multiple readings.
I catch myself, and that is where I feel I am taking a bit of a left turn-- always telling myself that I am more "not of the flesh" than others, even though I use material means to achieve my spiritual goals, and then I re-use these spiritual experiences as if they were gathered like money or something tangible, rather than being mindful, and open, and in-the-present.This book is a good read for those of us who have hit the spiritual high our whole lives, often using not fraudulent, but just very accumulative, sometimes spiritually arrogant, methods of getting us there.
This book shows a path to a state of mind that allows you to flow like water through space and time rather than violently thrashing and splashing against the current as many of us currently are.The first talk is all about the common pitfalls of trying to attain realization.
Spiritual materialism is ego-reinforcing and becomes itself another form of duality.In the second half of the book, he broadly describes the path of Bodhisattva.
I would say this is a very good book for anyone who has been interested in or practicing mindfulness or Vipassana for a little while and finds themselves thinking, "Well..
what now?" Discovering Vipassana is like the first little glimpse into what's possible through this practice.
A lot of this I have already found useful in helping me see things with a more open, forgiving, less possessive perspective.Now, do I actually buy into *all* of this stuff?
And I wonder how in a world entirely imbued by Buddhism could the better things of our industrialized society have even developed.
I just can't help but think that a Zen Buddhist world would be a really, really boring one.
The TRUTH!!!" At first I thought that I would now just be able to read a few words and: "Wham, bam, thank you , Stan," I'm enlightened.
I thought that the truth was supposed to be simple, profound and sublime.
Aaarrghhh!!!!) He clearly elucidates the topics of developement of the ego, the six realms of existence (an important aspect of the Buddhist understanding of reality), the Four Noble Truths, and the concept of emptiness.
I recommend this one to anyone who has at least a beginning understanding of Buddhism.
It was not until I moved to Boulder Colorado, Trungpa's last home after his Tibetan exile that understood why he was so insitent on teaching Americans about how shallow we are in our various approachs to the embodying the wisdom of the East.
This text is designed as a sort of feedback mechanism for all the smarmy, new age, old school, rightous Americans who might be confusing the soil of India with Nirvana or the black robed Zen Roshi with the definative expression of kindness.
Materialism in this text is not described so much as a thing but more often an attitude, such as, she GOT enlightened.
The concept of Spiritual materialism is very powerful.
Not sure I fully understand it yet.
After reading the book I immediately wanted to go back and reread it, because I know I will get a lot more out of it.
If I understand it right, Spiritual materialism applies not just to Buddhism, but to all spiritual practices.
It is were the Ego gets bound up in the rewards of the practice and then gets in the way of making real advancement.
Recommend this book to spiritual seekers.
This is one of the most important books I've read in my life. I highly recommend it to anyone considering Buddhism. Trungpa asks important questions about the motivation for faith in a materialist culture. For example, are you drawn to Buddhism because it's got a nice aesthetic or because you are ready to commit to some very difficult spritual practice?
(Trungpa pakeni Tiibetistä vaikeissa olosuhteissa 1959 Intiaan, josta myöhemmin muutti Amerikkaan ja alkoi opettaa siellä).
Trungpa käy alussa läpi itsepetoksen muotoja ja selventää mm.
egon käsitettä (jonka merkitys buddhalaisessa "filosofiassa" on eri kuin länsimaisessa mielessä).Kirjan jaksoja ovat mm.
Kun kohtaamme asiat sellaisina kuin ne ovat, lakkaamme toivomasta jotain parempaa."" Sovinnaisen ajattelutavan mukaan myötätunto merkitsee vain ystävällisyyden ja lämminhenkisyyden osoittamista.
Hän ei tekisi pahaa kärpäsellekään.
Todellinen myötätunto on kuitenkin armotonta, koska se ei piittaa egon vietistä ylläpitää itseään.
Se on täydellisen viisasta, mutta se on myös hullua, koska se ei samastu egon kirjaimellisiin ja alkeellisiin yrityksiin turvata oma mukavuutensa."
I bought this book in 2004 and let it sit on my bookshelf in California, Austin, then Guatemala until finally reading it this spring. It's the kind of book I want to reread as soon as I finish.Tibetan meditation master Chögyam Trungpa clearly explains how "walking the spiritual path properly is a very subtle process; it is not something to jump into naively. There are numerous sidetracks which lead to a distorted, ego-centered version of spirituality," and how to avoid these pitfalls on the path to enlightenment.
Unfortunately, the structure of the presentation leaves so much to be desired that I almost gave up about halfway through the book.Based on the reviews I had seen and the title of the book, I was expecting a book with a straightforward premise that it is trying to argue regarding the pitfalls of spiritual approaches that connect the idea of self-improvement with spiritual growth.
Even worse, most of the argumentation was presented initially through metaphor.
On the other hand, the lecturer could have made his argument much clearer had he just presented the main idea of his argument in each lecture, which he then backed up with metaphors to describe the process he is discussing.
This book is a re-read.
First time I read it, I was seeking spiritual truth.
I read it to get something out of it, and was very disappointed.
2nd time through, I happened to be cleaning my book shelf up, and it fell out and open to a page on experiencing anger.
I was just drawn in, and discovered to my delight that rereading this book was an entirely different experience.
Couldn't put it down.Not unlike air for breathing, I highly recommend it for anyone considering starting a spiritual practice, or who just has an interest in Buddhism from the Tibetan perspective.
One of those books that really needs to be read many times throughout the course of a life... it will reveal new things each time. Many books provide comfort or guidance, this one is like a mirror and what you see in it depends on how much you are willing to see... and what you see isn't often very pretty.
Thus, in taking the context out of the teaching in the form of a book, the issues I find troublesome (at least, for me) are more or less bound to happen.In any case, I strongly recommend this book to anyone intersted in seriously pursuing any spiritual path (first half of it), reviewing already familiar Buddhist concepts (second part), or to anyone wishing to read one of the greatest, most challenging Tibetan Buddhist teachers of the 20th Century.Más allá del Materialismo Espiritual, de Chogyam Trungpa, está clarametne dividido en dos partes: la primera, que también podría llamarse "Más allá de las tonterías espirituales" trata de los peligros y las trampas que ocurren durante el camino espirtual como manifestaciones del siempre presente deseo del ego de permear todos y cada uno de los aspectos de la vida de una persona.
His teaching was sound and open.The problem seems to be that people worry about a conflict between the religious and the profane.
Yes. Any other "being" with whom you might think yourself communicating would be imaginary.Q. Would the teachings of Christ in themselves be a spiritual friend?A.
The idea is not to regard the spiritual path as something very luxurious and pleasurable but to see it as just facing the facts of life.
So, if you have difficult tasks to perform, such as dealing with people or life situations, you do not feel as if you are running out of resources.
This isn't just about spiritual materialism. There are plenty of other topics covered.I hadn't been too thrilled about some of Trungpa's other books but this one was impressive.This book wasn't perfect (I didn't like some of the chapters or the Q&A sections at the end of most chapters), but I will reread it if I can't find a better Trungpa work.
The first half of the book deals with this notion of spiritual materialism and ego-inflation, which I think is an important and useful topic.
This applies especially to the talks on Gurus or, as they are known in this tradition, "spiritual friends." Trungpa removes all doubt about subtle interpretations about whether one needs a guru, or whether that guru need be made of human flesh, by answering a question point blank: one must have a guru to achieve the kind of openness of which he speaks, and this guru must be a real, material, and proximate human being.
Chogyam Trunga wrote this book for his students who were so into attaining enlightenment, nirvana, etc, they began thinking they didn't need to care for themselves on the earth plane (i.e, feeding oneself, washing, sleeping, etc,).
Why not aid the process?" Really?According to Chogyam Trungpa's teachings and eastern philosophical thought in general, we are all here on this plane and in these bodies, leading these lives for a reason; the main reason being the we are charged with taking the best care of our bodies that we can so we may learn well from and meet head-on whatever challenges life, Karma and our relationship to Maya may set before us.
Trungpa helps us step outside these dichotomies and look at the path as a way to 'just be here' instead of of a way to 'go there.' He discusses the expression of energy that might be deemed 'inappropriate' such as anger through things like transmutation of the energy or simply witnessing it and feeling it without the need to express it.
"Form is form and emptiness is emptiness." Through these seeming contradictions, we can come to a realization that the path is not one that we must tread upon to some destination, but rather, the path itself is the destination, and a modicum of humor is helpful as we release our preconceptions of spirituality.
He got all of his followers together and had one of his students explain that "form is emptiness and emptiness is form." He was basically saying that grasping on to anything - including the teachings of the Buddha - would cause suffering.
This in itself caused suffering for many of the followers, but thus cut "through spiritual materialism".
The ego is relentless in tricking us into it's games and putting too much emphasis into practice is simply another form of ego.
"They [the practitioner] struggle to eliminate ego's heavy hand but, as we discovered earlier, that struggle is merely another expression of ego (pg.
But what really made this book a gem for me, one that I will undoubtedly read again, is that it actually changed my view of the concept of the spiritual path, and forced me to re-evaluate my own motivations in a deep way.
Trungpa often mentions the two-edged sword of prajna, or transcendent knowledge, which cuts through delusion.
The teachings in this book remind me of that sword, sharp and decisive and able to cut through so many of the misguided attachments we may have to our spiritual development.

While I find his writing and personality to be as fun as Osho's, Trungpa consistently offers a simultaneous feeling of vitality and profundity (where Osho seems to evidence an adolescent form of "I've-got-enlightenment").
It took me a little time to begin to understand Trungpa's particular way of presenting nuance as well, but once I did, each subsequent book added more.
After some time, you begin to see that Trungpa had the unique approach of presenting nearly "everything" all at once, allowing those around him to step forward, or benefit from him, based on where they were at in their own progress.
Very likely the best and most direct book I have read about how to proceed in becoming more awake.Chögyam Trungpa wasn't know as a challenging teacher for no reason.
Chögyam Trungpa points out the road blocks, detours, and pot holes that most everyone encounters on the journey to greater awareness.
At least the reader of the book stands a chance of being aware of what is happening to them.
Just reading the book, will not of course keep the reader from making the mistakes.
I think we all make the same mistakes but at least if one heeds Rinpoche's words less time might be spent in the ditch.
I cannot praise this book enough. I recommend it to anyone practising meditation or anyone on any spiritual path. It is suitable for the absolute beginner and the experienced practitioner. Beginners find starting points and guidelines, more experienced meditators will find all of the traps into which they have trodded and encouragement to go on. The descriptions of different meditation techniques and the pitfalls of them are among the most lucid that I have ever read. The language and style is beautiful and simple - this teaching just sinks into me without any effort. Five stars.
This book draws from a series of lectures given by Chogyam Trungpa, the founder of the Shambhala tradition in the US, in Boulder, Colo., in the early 1970s. Reading this book provides you with confidence on your own spiritual journey. It makes you reflect and helps you examine your own experience. Trungpa captures the experience of being on the path so clearly and in such a way that you recognize, “Ahhh, that’s what I experienced!”
Wow. It took me a long time to read this book. I loved every word. It was difficult. It made me feel uncomfortable. Trungpa has such a way with words, he makes even the most complex concepts easy to understand. If I had read this book a year ago I would have had a hard time understanding it. I can't say that I have a better understanding of myself; that's not what this book is about. I do however see patterns in my thinking more clearly. Thankfully.
