https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/314926.Parmenides
Through a series of lectures predicated loosely on readings of Parmenides' didactic poem, Heidegger examines the pre-metaphysical Greek experience of truth, or αλήθεια, as unconcealment and presence.
For Heidegger, truth in the originary Greek sense occurs in our encounters with beings as an event where concealment is removed to allow beings to be revealed, or "making manifest that which in some sense lies hidden." In this sense concealment and unconcealment are not merely the properties of an object or aspects of human experience, but primordial phenomena and basic features of Being that humans both are and participate in.
The classroom setting, while much more critical in the volume dedicated to Heraclitus, manages to convey the sense of being taught or instructed, rather than spoken at, and this certainly helps the reader follow Heidegger through the rigorous program of intellectual gymnastics common to all his work.It is important to note that this seminar, along with much of his work in the 1940s, is the direct result of concerns he developed in the mid to late 1930s, when he disengaged from direct confrontations with the likes of Aristotle, Kant and Hegel, and fell victim to the seductive texts of the pre-Socratics and Nietzsche - the very beginning and the very end of metaphysics, respectively.
This book barely talks about Parmenides at all, it just uses his philosophy as a starting point to explore Heidegger's idea that the Greek concept of truth is different from ours.
There's also a few glimpses here of Heidegger the Nazi (something I didn't see in Being and Time or Heraclitus Seminar), with typically obscure comments about the "German spirit" and "saving German culture", which probably meant something very specific to his audience in 1943 when this lecture was delivered.
I was unsure about Heidegger for a while but I think this book tips the scale in the nonsense direction.
There is not that much books about Parmenides! so Heidegger did almost the best.Parmenides is very important from pre-Socratic times. (http://sirbookstore.com/parmenides.html)For Socrates, Platon, Aristotle there are many influence from him. It is not easy to understand him and his "ONE" but once you are able to go into his philosophy, it is definitely extraordinary and opens amazing perception to yourself, universe, I would say everything.Platon wrote Parmenides. Guthrie also wrote about him and it's worth to read.+Do you know Kundera's Unbearable Lightness of Being is coming from where? =)Please search for Parmenides more..
Despite the title, the book actually doesn't talk about the Greek philosopher Parmenides. It only uses him as stepping stone to explain the author's philosophy.That said, this is an important lead for anyone seeking to understand Heidegger. His concept of 'Aletheia' is thoroughly discussed -- even to the point of linguistic analysis.Warning: the book is repetitive. Only recommended for those big into the man and his thought.
One of the clearest accounts of what Heidegger means by "Unconcealment," particularly in the context of ancient Greek philosophy.
It loses its inherency in losing its mystery.These are consistent themes through Heidegger's later writing, and the great advantage here is the coherent presentation of them via a history of truth.In addition to elucidating his own thoughts on technology and the degradation of thinking, there is a great deal here of interest in Heidegger's account of the history of philosophy.During the second half of the book, Heidegger presents an interpretation of Plato's Myth of Er. He understands the River Lethe in Plato's myth in the light of the contrast between aletheia as unconcealing and lethe (often translated as "forgetfulness") as "withdrawing concealment".
I think the founders of the judeo-christian tradition had good intentions but according to heidegger this god commands while the Greek gods merely hint.
It was sort of an unnerving dream and I don't think heidegger has no explanation for strange phenomena like hearing voices and " the unconscious," Freud and jung at least try to deal with such phenomena as hearing voices.
When you hear a voice out of a radio, this is like a mysterious voice coming from a god.
This is like the chatter of voices coming from the radio which the instinctual man hears as a disembodied voice or god.
It's a good Heidegger book especially since Parmenides is so often quoted by Heidegger. Like most Heidegger books the title is misleading. The book is primarily about Aletheia. It is a good read if you're a Heidegger junkie because he even grounds some terms like 'Uncanny' which plays such a big deal in Being and Time. Overall if you haven't read a lot of his books I would read something else first.
Absorbing read that was well worth sticking with despite the obviously heavy weight of the text. This really felt like you reading someone's mind. No conclusions were reached or corners were turned, the book just flowed immaculately and you came away feeling like you had experienced something special.
A marvelous study of the first philosopher to study the nature of Being
