https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/397860.The_Fog
THE FOG is a 1970's horror classic by the late James Herbert...my first...but not last...that has a variety of character types with mist-linked stories, some with descriptive sex, others with shocking acts of brutality and murder (one super surprising), and a few like the menacing cows, kicking-butts banker and holy pee pee that cracked me up.So......hide, be wary of headaches, stay away from everyone...including animals and of course, the sinister cloud of horror.
(view spoiler)[Some characters get their revenge whether they deserve it or not: a poacher gets his revenge on a rightful owner who had beaten him up, a neglected hard-working woman gets hers on her drunk spendthrift husband, a man who after years of cheating his wife goes to kill a man she fell in love with (I was annoyed by this one the most).
(hide spoiler)]I didn't like how some of the characters got a lot of space in the story only to show how they or other people around them would be influenced by the fog (the Bournemouth episode was preceded by quite a long story).
James Herbert was perhaps the best known modern British horror authors, and I can see why!If I had to critique anything about this book, there are a few instances where minor players are given a little too much back story, and by the time of the third instance, a pattern did emerge.
BAM!These were trivial matters, and never took me out of the story in any way, so I can't let them reflect in my rating.This was my second James Herbert book, the first having been Moon, which was probably not the greatest place to start with this author.

Excellent book by the master of horror. Scary. Nothing to do with the film The Fog by John Carpenter and starring a young beautiful Jamie Lee Curtis. Even though the film is a different story to the book it is a very good film. I recommend both.🐯👍👍🐯
He is up there with Stephen king for me and is truly Talented I Picked up this book when I was a teen, on holiday, It was a book left in my aunty and uncles holiday Villa, I got into a few pages and it truly disturbed me to the core, to the point where I even felt I was far too young at the time to be reading such a scary book.
At times, the book is like a zombie novel because whenever the fog envelopes urban areas, large numbers of people can be affected with some very twisted results.
Thus, Summers' attraction to them would've been seen as paedophiliac not only at the time but also for nearly twenty years after The Fog was first published, since it would have remained the case that anyone aged 21 or older engaging in gay sex with someone under 21 would be regarded as a criminal - and also in many people's minds, a paedophile.
Like King, his books were sortof shocking at the time for their violence.
So the best thing you can say about this book is it makes Stephen King look like a master writer.
The plot - crazy fog makes people into crazy murderers - sounds like it might be lurid fun, right?
Even the "shocking" stuff isn't really shocking or imaginative.There's some creepy gay stuff - like, you know how gay people are usually also pedophiles?
Nothing about this book is any fun.
It's a really bad book, guys.
Now at the time a mixture of nativity and a limited range of choices (not sure if that is really the result of the former) meant that second hand markets and rummage sales were the only sources I knew of.The result was that I devoured the early Herbert's which left a lasting image (or at least to start with) of English horror - it took the likes of Brian Lumley and Ramsey Campbell (as well as many more) to correct that some years later.
If ever you want to read the spectrum of what horror can be James Herbert and his illustrious career can be no worse place to start (even if there are a few wobbles along the way)
A brilliant hybrid of a novel. Herbert hits all the highpoints that make a great thriller, then casually crosses over into the horror territory he would soon become an acknowledged master of, with scenes that will stay with you to your grave.
This was a re-read for me. I first read The Fog many years ago, and based on memories of being creeped out by the sense of threatening dread within its pages, I'd given it a four star rating. I've now 'bumped' that to a five.This is early James Herbert; and it's easy to forget how very good his earlier stuff was.
I love the interludes that we get throughout the novel where we get to see the horrible things that the Fog causes people to do.
Herbert does an excellent job at creating a story that excites, terrifies, and causes some sort of inner turmoil.
This book affected me in a multitude of ways and that's saying something.
I applaud Herbert's mastery of the concept of what terrifies and what horror is truly about.
However this still didn't affect my enjoyment of the novel in any way.
An exceptional, truly terrifying horror novel that pulls no punches.
The Fog is one of those books that would stare down at me from my fathers bookshelf when I was little.
Now, I'm trying to find those same books and read them myself, wondering if the stories live up to my childhood impressions.The Fog didn't disappoint.
The main story of how the Fog came to be and how it will be destroyed, while believable enough, was a bit boring.
It's the horror interludes(and there are many), the scenes of random people throughout the story and how they're affected by The Fog, that make this book so entertaining.
I loved reading them.I would recommend this book to any horror fan.
Starts right off with the action; several scenes will stay with the reader for a while! Reminded me somewhat of his novel THE DARK as far as the structure of the novel went... I will be catching up on several of his other books soon!
Throw in the lurid cover art of the New American Library edition and I knew that there was no way in hell my parent's would let me read Mr. Hebert's sophomore effort.......unfortunately.
A few days ago I found a copy (the same lurid New American Library edition from 1975) at a local second hand store.
Imagine a gory, exploitative horror story with a little porn thrown in to spice things up and you've got "The Fog".
It's the paperback equivalent of the old exploitation drive-in movies churned out by AIP (American International Pictures) and Hammer Film Productions in the sixties and seventies.
As a fan of the author and a completist by nature, I've read a couple of his books lately that were just so so.
The Fog was exactly the kind of scary fun ride that Herbert was capable of at his best.
But I digress...Fog was extremely graphic (not for the sensitive readers), uber violent, yet very humane at the same time.
Not as dated as one might expect of a book from the 70s either.
Really fun exciting spooky read.
the story was ok but I never got attached to any of the characters. it's fast paced so it goes by quickly.
Clearly Herbert intends to deliver sharp kicks to the stomach here, but he only succeeds in a few of the more minor incidences of people coming into contact with the fog early on and one or two late in the story.
Apart from some successes with minor characters, this is never really engrossing at a character level, despite the focus on the human side of things.
There are hints all the way through that some revelation is coming about the fog, but when it actually comes it's quite underwhelming and almost unrecognisable.The book is little effort, but also little reward.
4 StarsClassic. This is NOT like the 1980 movie that features Adrienne Barbieau and Janet Leigh. The Fog is one nasty piece of work and James Herbert seemed to like it that way. No quick deaths, no thought-provoking questions. Murder, mayhem, government conspiracy, sexual deviance and a proud middle finger. Kinda like those books from the 80's: Truly Tasteless Jokes One. It's tasteless and knuckle-dragging, but so damned fun. LOL
However, even though I didn’t give it the best preparation, I thoroughly enjoyed ‘The Fog’.As the author’s preface (written in 1988) points out, Herbert considers his second novel to be somewhat roar.
It earned a lot of criticism apparently for its excessive violence and while Herbert doesn’t quite concede that, he does acknowledge problems with its dialogue and characterisation.
And yet when you’re reading ‘The Fog’ you forget all of that, as it’s just so much horrible fun.Taking the lead from John Wyndham, Herbert creates a huge problem which threatens the whole of mankind in general, but more particularly Britain.
Whereas Wells had great fun destroying Surrey, Herbert enjoys himself wreaking havoc on Dorset).
Although the writer is well known -and also the book is considered a classic-, I did not know James Herbert’s works before.
“The fog” is not an horror novel like the ones I used to know (Ahem!
I consider this book is also a disaster novel, like those movies in the late seventies.
However, it is possible that the novel suffers for being a classic from 1975: some developments of the plot, and some scenes too, nowadays we have seen them in a lot of horror movies.
Reading “The Fog”, have I been scared?
An absolute classic from the mid 70s.
A mysterious fog appears and drives human beings into madness.
Here you really understand the term homo hominis lupus!
The government is trying to do everything to stop the fog from moving to London.
In vain.
The fog reaches London.
Will John Holman, the main character, who survived the fog, be able to stop this "deadly man made disease" in the end?
I also liked the London localities here as I know them quite well.
Absolute recommendation when you're in for a real thrill!
Well, of course it would be John.He’s the sort of character who would fit comfortably into pulp fiction, but is a bit of a hindrance to a chiller where the reader would benefit from a sympathetic connection to the person whose psychological reactions inform our experience of the horror.
Not one perhaps for the type of reader who needs to forge a deep connection to characters in order to appreciate their experiences, but still a good way for the horror fan to get their chills.Review from Bookette.net
I really enjoy horror stories though I don't seem to read them as often as other types, but while looking for my next book to read, I saw this one and it just said to me, it's time.
So I went with the flow and started reading, and was immediately drawn into the story, wanting to know what was going to happen next.
To be honest, when I picked this book up, I thought it was going to be the story that the movie was based off of, you know, that one with the shipwrecked lepers' ghosts coming back and killing people, etc.
On a goodreads groupread thread, this book was several times compared to the Final Destination film franchise: much of it consists of a series of set-pieces illustrating the macabre and homicidal effects of a mysterious, mind-altering fog on the inhabitants of the English countryside.
Part of my dislike of the book overall may come from my preference for supernatural horror: I had mistakenly hoped this novel was somehow related to John Carpenter's film of the same name, but the two are totally and completely unrelated, and I found myself slogging through lots of (view spoiler)[ onerous exposition dealing with the military chemical warfare research that birthed the fog.
there's an earthquake in this small town, the ground opens up, this spooky fog comes out, starts creepin across the country, people breathe it in, they all go mad, start killing each other and themselves-- it's great!
and there's this one brilliant scene about this unaffected woman who goes to the seashore to drown herself, having just been jilted by her lover, and she walks out into the ocean, and then realizes she wants to live, and turns around to head back, only to see the entire population of the city following her out into the waves...
great scene.
Everybody needs to read one of James Herbert's 1970s novels every so often.
Who cares about the ruthless sex scenes - copulation and madness and castration; or the male chauvinistic gusto, as ribald as a postwar spy thriller 'cheapie'; or the dung-heap dialogue that has the mastery of a pre-pubescent boy writing a James Bond pastiche.
C'mon, where else are you going to read about an evil fog causing pigeons and cattle to do their part in destroying the human race?(pair this one up with Charles Platt's ''The Gas', and your brain will surely melt into a bubbling heap of guilty pleasures)
This was my first Herbert read and, wow, this was a wild ride til the very end.
The first chapter sets it up for you and you really have no idea what to expect, I mean, what's so scary about fog?
Alot of insanity and crazy happenings, even the animals can't be trusted in the fog!
A really fun, action packed, and enjoyable read.
The characters were very likeable.
I especially loved the horrific scenes.
I'm definitely a Herbert fan and am already reading another book of his.
If you've never read him before please check it out!
You won't be disappointed!
The book was great it really deserves 5 stars!Totally enjoyed it!
http://bookwitch77.blogspot.rs/2017/1...
