https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/151080.The_Immigrants
Ovo je sjajna porodična saga... Davno je objavljena u Hrvatskoj kao "Doseljenici" i "Druga generacija", a zapravo postoje još 4 dela koji nikada nisu prevedeni... Osim što je Hauard Fast božanstven autor on je i plodan pisac... Ima šta da se čita kod njega... Ono što većina verovatno ne zna, on je bio svekar Erike Džong... :)
Acabo de terminarlo y escribo desde la emoción que te da algo que te ha gustado, lo sé, pero ha sido un libro que me costaba cerrar de lo terriblemente enganchada que me ha tenido la historia de Dan Lavette.No es una novela romántica (lo menciono porque habitualmente es el género que leo pero esta es una de las excepciones que hago de vez en cuando), es la historia de Dan Lavette, hijo de inmigrantes europeos en la San Francisco de principios del siglo XX.
Y también hay amor, una historia de amor triste y preciosa que me ha tenido en vilo hasta...
The Immigrants is the first in a series of six books by Howard Fast.
I first read these books in the early 80's and devoured them as fast as I could.
If you like reading about the same characters throughout several books, following along the family lineage, all the while surrounded in colorful historical fiction, then this series is for you.It centers around immigrant life in America, much of it in San Francisco.
I've read the series at least three time, and eventually purchased all of them from used book stores to keep in my own library.
Me acerqué a esta saga de Howard Fast con la idea de ver el lado Norte Americano de principios del siglo XX, e intentar armar algún rompecabezas mundial de ese fragmento de tiempo comprendido entre finales del siglo IXX hasta la depresión.
La novela no parecía ser otra más, pues los dueños del megáfono serían los inmigrantes, que hoy por hoy son actores socioculturales y elementos del paisaje de la sociedad global.
La novela de Howard Fast no solo va de Dan Lavette; es rica en los detalles de cómo era la vida y la sociedad, de la situación de los inmigrantes y de su aporte en el crecimiento de San Francisco.
A love story of tremendous beauty...a tale of passion, adventure, and ambition set against the streets of San Francisco, America's most romantic city.Dan Lavette's parents immigrated to America and eventually made their way to San Francisco, and Dan learns to be a fisherman like his father - but when the great earthquake and fire hits in 1906 Dan is left orphaned and on his own.
The characters are flat and unlikable and the story itself is so filled with the standard clichés of California industry and Fast isn't able to bring something fresh to any of it.
Dan Lavette is the protagonist, and yet Fast includes a large cast of supporting characters, and it never feels as if any of them have enough depth.
I prefer my fiction to be more tightly focused on a few key characters.
I think that's a big part of why I never felt like I got to know these characters well.
Perhaps a shorter time frame would've been better able to support such a large cast of characters.
Just don't read it expecting to really connect with the characters and feel any strong emotion about their experiences.
I like family sagas and this one was pretty good.
They are so very poor and his Dad Joseph tries to find work.
He is recruited to work for the railroad but has to move his family from New York to San Francisco.
Joseph saves and is able to buy a fishing boat.
One morning Dan gets up early to go to the boat.
The 1906 earthquake hits and Dan's family is lost.
The story continues with the Levy family who take Dan in.
It's the story of being poor, being rich and being poor again.
Good book.
Maybe only 3.5 stars I have enjoyed this easy read and looking forward to reading more, there are 5 more. This particular version I have, has some grammatical errors in it though which is a bit annoying at times. The family characters are developing well, however a strange ending to book one, if you did not know ahead there were more volumes to read, you would be left hanging.
With this type of writing I could have even done with giving this book 3 stars but I give it 4 for 2 reasons:One - I really loved the story and the ending was very touching.Two - The theme and some other parts of the book reminded me of my favorite book of all time (Kane and Abel).I absolutely love family sagas and historical fiction especially ones which cover a good number of years.
Hoping for a John Jakes style epic, I was disappointed in the one-dimensional characters, skimming over of important historical events, and general blandness of this novel.My favorite characters in this book were Joseph and Anna Lavette, who are the original immigrants that the story opens up with.
I'm pretty sure that Satan was the model for her character.With nobody to care about, this novel needed some drama and action to make it interesting.
I wasn't.I have the rest of this trilogy and may continue it at some point to see if later generations of this family are more compelling, but for now there are too many books and too little time to continue with ones like this.
“The Immigrants” begins in 1888 with a French-Italian fisherman and his young Italian wife arriving in New York Harbor and takes readers through 1933.The fisherman (Joesph Lavette) and his wife (Anna) travel for weeks to reach San Francisco with their young son (Daniel) who worships his father and his father’s fishing business.As this story unfolds, Daniel marries Jean, the only daughter of a wealthy Irish Nob Hill banker.
Daniel has two children with Jean (Thomas Joseph and Barbara) and another son (Joseph) out of wedlock.Daniel’s best friend and business partner is Mark Levy, married to Sarah.
storia familiare avventurosa infarcita di stereotipi e banalità, in una san francisco dapprima sconvolta dal grande terremoto del 1906 e poi in piena ripresa. eventi importanti come la prima guerra mondiale e la grande depressione sono solo funzionali alle peripezie del protagonista daniel lavette- ambizioso figlio di un pescatore immigrato che arriverà a un successo impensabile per poi perdere tutto all'improvviso (ritrovando però la sua essenza e ricongiungendosi con il suo vero amore). l'unico pregio di questo catalogo di luoghi comuni è che si legge a rotta di collo, intuendosi fin dal principio lo sviluppo della storia.
دان لاوت، دان لاوت نازنین؛ رفتی تو لیست شخصیت های محبوب دنیای ادبیات که تا همیشه تو خاطرم می مونی.
از هيچ به اوج با خواستن و از اوج به هيچ بازهم با خواستن!
I loved this story of the Lavette family imigrated from Italy.
I was sorry when it ended.Copied from the publisher: A love story of tremendous beauty...a tale of passion, adventure, and ambition set against the streets of San Francisco, America's most romantic city.
Dan Lavette, the son of an Italian fisherman, battles from the rubble of the San Francisco earthquake to build a fortune in the shipping industry.
From Nob Hill to the harbor, San Francisco comes alive through three immigrant families -- Italian, Irish, and Chinese -- whose intertwining dreams are propelled by the emotional events of America's coming of age...
I read this captivating novel in record time, while "taking a break" between "The 42nd Parallel" and "1919", the first two volumes of John Dos Passos "USA Trilogy" that actually cover the same period.
I tremendously enjoyed the journey alongside French-Italian American born Dan Lavette, and the other ethnically diverse protagonists who accompany the reader along the first three decades spannning pre-quake San Fran to the aftermath of the crash of '29.
A highly recommended, easy read, for recent immigrants, first generation Americans, Americans of European lineage whose forebearers landed in Ellis Island in the turn of the last century and eventually settled in California, and bay area curent and once residents- like myself-, as well as bay area enthusiasts.
My primary gripe is that I think Fast brings a modern (as in mid-20th century) sensibility into it, and as a result characters make choices and act in ways I found a bit difficult to swallow for the time period.
I actually could see one or even two of the men falling "in love" with someone other than their wife, and having an affair, but almost every main male character follows a similar trajectory, and that didn't ring true.
Still Fast is a good writer, the book is fast moving and set in interesting times, and I have hope that the women characters will have larger roles in future books, as they seem to when I look at the titles.
This book reaffirmed how much I love family sagas.
This is different from some other historical fictions in that there really aren't any historical characters, with the exception of the mention of some very minor politicians.
The book instead gives you an insight into the times.
I learned a lot about a variety of topics: finance, wine making, the stock market crash and subsequent bank failure, etc.I like how the book moves through time.
You really get a sense of each character's personality through their choice of words and sentence structure.I enjoyed this and intend to read the whole series.
It had promise, in that I love family sagas and tales of building a new life in America. A good example of such a book is _Galway Bay_. Howard Fast's _The Immigrants_, on the other hand, is a bad example. A simplistic, unrealistic soap opera of a book with characters who are cardboard cutouts and suffer from unrealistic fates. It's less a novel and more a laundry list of sex partners, babies born in and out of wedlock, business deals and Schoolhouse Rock-style recounting of world events.
I enjoy the Lavette family and the story of their lives. I also appreciate the history that is intertwined in the story.
This is a re-read for me - I enjoyed it again...like coming back to see an old friend. Now I'm on to the next one in the series!
A family saga set in San Francisco.
This is now one of my favorite books. I'm so very glad that I "found" it! It is brimming with lovable characters and history, too. I just loved it!
I thoroughly enjoyed this family saga set in San Francisco in the period 1890 to 1930. There are more books in the series so am looking forward to those.
What Taylor Caldwell did for the Irish in the Northeast in Captains and the Kings, Howard Fast has done for the Italians, Chinese, and Jewish families in San Francisco, beginning in the late 19th Century and taking the story all the way to the early 1930s.
Dan survives and with the help of his Italian and Jewish friends, Chinese bookkeeper, and his shrewd business sense, he builds an empire.
The book is an epic saga of the lives of Dan, his family, friends, business associates, and indeed the whole incredible world of San Francisco and Los Angeles in the early 20th Century.
VERY ENTERTAINING.Not much to say about Howard Fast’s character-driven, epic family saga, The Immigrants except that it is one of the best, most entertaining, historical fiction novels ever—in the mode of Michener, Clavell, Rutherfurd and Follet.Recommendation: I can’t wait to read Second Generation (Lavette Family Saga, #2)SourceBooks Landmark, Kindle edition, 6,606 Kindle Locations, 482 pages
PER LA RECENSIONE COMPLETA:http://lalettricedistratta.altervista...Il romanzo si apre con il capostipite della famiglia Lavette cioè il padre di Daniel che conosceremo solo per poche pagine visto che la storia vera e propria parte da Danny e dalla sua voglia di ricominciare,di rendere suo padre felice. Danny non è assetato di soldi,nonostante essi gli rendessero la vita nettamente migliore, era assetato di potere, l’unica cosa che gli importava era conquista Nothing Hill,quartiere di San Francisco dove abitavano le persone facoltose ovvero ricche.
A complex family tale of rags to riches and back to rags. The suite of characters is well-drawn and eminently relatable. Very insightful commentary on the early history of San Francisco.
اگرچه نه به آن دقت و جزئیات که تاریخ یک قرن فرانسه را می شود از طریق خواندن آثار بالزاک شناخت، با این همه هوارد فاست یک آمریکایی ست که با همه ی دید انتقادی نسبت به فرهنگ و تاریخ ملتش، هم چنان دلسوز مردم و میهن خود باقی مانده است.
افسر به مترجم می گوید “غلط می کنند بر نمی گردند" مترجم که خود از شایان هاست، مکث می کند، به راستی باید این جمله را ترجمه کند؟ فاست وصف می کند شایان ها چگونه ایستاده بودند.
According to my Kindle, I am 32% of the way through this book!
one of the downsides of the Kindle).So far, I am really enjoying this book, it is a page turner (pixel turner??).
This is rags-to-riches-and-back-again story-- fiction, but historically accurate to early 20th century San Fransisco.
A financial planner's nightmare.I found out about this book from my daily word-of-the-day email from dictionary.com.
They used a passage from this book to illustrate the word "chutzpa".
Dan's business partner, a Jewish man named Daniel Levy, uses a lot of Yiddish.
A lot of the things Dan says in the book remind me of her.A great read.
