https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/831903.Reilly_s_Luck
I had fond memories of this novel & should have kept them.
His gravelly voice was OK for some parts, but the women's voices were horrible & a couple of women had very important parts in the novel.
OK, the end needed to be a convenient great meeting, but there were far too many others scattered throughout the story which skipped through time like a thrown stone.
Didn't work.Overall, the story is a good one, but the execution just failed in this format & time.
Will is mostly a gambler but as with so many men in the West he has done a number of jobs to make ends meet.
They fight Indians and outlaws and avoid as much trouble as they can.Unfortunately the trip to Europe is the beginning of end for Will and it is left to Val to take down the men that take down his friend and mentor.This is a quick read and I find it is hard to put down once I start, even though I have read the story a number of times.
This is one of my favorite Louis L'Amour books. A gambler takes in an abandoned child and raises him in the old west. Eventually, Rielly, the gambler is ambushed and killed. The boy goes east, and gets an education, but eventually returns to the west, ultimately finding himself up against a formidable opponent--his birth mother, a ruthless womanh. I don't go to Louis L'Amour for deep, world changing thought, but fun, adventure, and some history lessons on the old west. This is a title I go back to again and again and again.
I'm biased about Louis L'Amour, so take my review with a grain of salt, but I love everything about his stories. They're easy and predictable and they're romantic and reassuring. You know who the good guy is and you know he's gonna triumph in the end. But he also creates a rich world that you can get into and pretend you're in this rose tinted wild west where there's hope and good feels all around even when the situation seems bleak. I grew up reading these western fairy tales, and this has always been a favorite of mine.
The library was dimly lit, which irritated him. One cannot make a dramatic entrance into a darkened room. He was announced, and he strode in.
I research most of my choices pretty well and I expected this to be pretty good after reading Shalako last year.
But I found out that my dad enjoyed reading old Western paperbacks in the last years of his life.
I was never close to my dad, my parents divorced when I was six years old.
I would pick up in a minute another book about Will or Val. The first half of the book would get a big '5 Stars.' The second half was enjoyable and kept me turning the pages, but not quite as great as the beginning.
Very entertaining and quick read!
Reilly's Luck was a good read. It had a character to draw the reader in. The plot was inciting, even if you could tell what was going to happen. This is the first western book that I have read, and I think I will read a few more in the future. :)
But the boy is lucky for Reilly and he comes to like the child.For years, Val grows up under the rough, but caring tutelage of this man, learning cards, guns, people, wisdom, and life.
A later tale, it is less linear and direct than most, wandering slightly just as the character wanders, from the Alps to New York City to New Orleans, Denver, New Mexico and more.
It weaves a wide band of tales and characters to a finale which if not quite as satisfying as some of L'Amour's writings, is different and interesting.
LA has penned a western that crosses many years of the west. It begins with a woman telling her friend to lose her son in the snow. The man takes him to a friend and they abandon the child the next day. The young boy grew up in normal environments except when it came to gambling. The father figure is murdered and the boy goes on his own. He has the ability to survive and survive he does. This is an excellent read for the genre.....DEHS
I enjoyed this book. The characters and the story were great. I liked and disliked the "small world" parts of the story. I think the ending was the weakest link (Not the ending I envisioned) And some parts seemed rushed. But overall it was great and I'm excited to read more Louis Lamour adventures.
A different kind of hero for Louis L'Amour. A small child is dropped off with a gambler to be raised. To the gambler's surprise he grew to love this young man and to be a great father to him. That young man then grows into an independent good person. Good read.
I have always enjoyed a book where people can overcome incredible odds over time and can become their own person. This is one such book where time, fortune, and misfortune, shape a man into the person that he needs to be.
high in my top 10 westerns.
L'Amour was one of my grandma's favorite authors, but I had never read one of his books and I thought it was about time.
So my teen son and I read this together and agreed it was great storytelling, although somewhat slower in the middle.
Through the book we travelled many places and met many interesting characters, including Billy the Kid, Wild Bill Hickock and Bat Masterson.
There were a couple lines I liked which conveyed a Wild West feel: - the strs in the sky shone "as though a vast army camped out there, far away." - "Men may plan, they may dream and struggle, but the buzzard has only to wait, for all things come to him in the end."
This was a five star read right up to the end where it started to fall apart.I overlooked that Boston was the most beautiful woman he had ever seen..
Who knew the real beauties were working cattle ranches in Colorado.Still it was a great story up until the ending which fell apart for some reason.
There is much talk about a box which contains evidence about his psycho mother who killed at least 8 people and thought Val was dead because she had ordered the job done when he was four years old.
Don't care for the 'epic' style l'amours
If you are looking for a rollicking good read however you will have a hard time beating a Louis L'Amour story.I learned from reading his books that first the story must flow.
If the story does not grab the reader and immerse them into the world created by the authors thoughts the writer has failed.
Some writers write to the audience, Louis L'Amour always writes directly to you.
For those of you who have not yet learned this, I invite you to find a quiet place and a cupa and let the world of Louis L'Amour devour you.
Reilly's Luck is my favorite Louis L book so far and I have read about 20 of them.
Lots of unexpected twists and turns and of course lots and lots of action in high Louis L style.
Lamour works can be a bit campy at times but I like them anyway because they cause me to feel inwardly renewed with the theme that American values of freedom, justice, honesty, and trust in our neighbors will prevail through times of difficulty.
And this book bucks the trend of "campiness" that is present in a quarter or so of his other works.
Reilly’s Luck is a fun little western.
Also, L’amour’s protagonist, Val, is what I’d call a “cool dude.” There is a scene where he manages to finish his meal without any trouble from the loud-mouthed and confrontational men in the restaurant with a brilliant trick that, despite the rest of the story being forgettable, is almost worth reading the book for.
The rest of the story seems familiar even though I haven’t read many westerns.
I read several L’amour short stories years ago and have always wanted to read more of his work.
Reilly’s Luck was pretty much what I was expecting.
A friend of mine once said to me, "I love using your bathroom because I never know what I'll find to read in there!" It's true.
Maybe it's the abandoned little boy, maybe it was the handsome man who took him in, maybe it was because my husband left for Alaska for the summer and I wanted to keep him a little closer than that - I don't know, but I was hooked.L'Amour writes in a simple, engaging style and this was a very quick read.
The actions of the characters was believable (not always true in a L'Amour book) and I liked them.
This book was recommended to me by two men who love Western stories, especially works by Louis L'Amour.
I can't remember if I've ever READ a Western before, but after reading Reilly's Luck, I'll search out more books by L'Amour.
Plus, it's a good story about a man and the boy he helps become a man.
There are strong female characters -- no shrinking violets here.
I became attached to the characters and cared about what happened to them.
Reilly's Luck is a good read for times when you want a good simple tale with colorful characters and settings.
Okay - my father-in-law, husband, and all his siblings are Louis L'Amour fans.
So, after 7 years of marriage, my husband finally asked me to read just one.
I did, and I have to say it was really fun.
Pure escapism, totally predictable and unrealistic, 100% western, but that's what made it fun!
I think it's really nice, once and a while, to take a break and read a novel that you KNOW the good guy's gonna win and get the girl, etc.
(the good looking, smart, fast-shooting, hard-working good guy, of course.) I had a great time reading it, and will probably read more Louis L'Amour books in the future.
As with many L'Amour westerns, there is a great deal of build-up and then a quick ending.
It seemed to take me a long time to get to the ending of this one, but in fairness the plot was convoluted.
The hero Val is raised by an unrelated gambler and later in life, he comes face-to-face with his mother--who would have left him to die as a baby of exposure.
Not so nice!
we are hoping for her comeuppance, but never read that--although it might have happened.
We do get Val's triumphs over the people who killed his foster father.
If you are spending the day at home with a book and no desire to do anything other than quietly pass the hours pleasantly, then you can't go wrong with good old Louis L'Amour.Who cares if the plot is signposted like Route 61?Who cares that everything neatly and steadily drops into place?The good guys moral, and the bad ones are cold hearted evil killers, shady ladies or worse?!This is passive entertainment at it's finest, and Reilly's Luck is up there with the best of them:)
Re-read October 2011: The first time my mom read this to us as we drove up toward Mt Rushmore when I was about 10. I loved it then. It was my first L'Amour. I think I've re-read it three times since then. It's actually a really disjointed plot. Two seperate plots really. The ending is terrible too. The rising action toward the climax is good, then the climax is too sudden, and the resolution is as near as can be non-existent. But I still like it. I enjoyed it again this time too.
At the age of four Val Durrant is abandoned by his mother in a strange Western town in the middle of a blizzard. He is taken in by a gambler named Will Reilly who raises him. When Reilly is brutally murdered by several men, Val tracks down the killers and then begins a new life in the East where he gets rich. When a Eastern doctor tells him that he is dying, he returns West to die in solitude but circumstances intervene.
I've only read one Louis L'Amour book before, and I must say that this particular book impressed me greatly. We follow the protagonist from the time he is a boy to a grown man, and delight in the characters who influence his life. I love how L'Amour created and "educated drifter" and placed both people and opportunities in his path throughout the book, including some well-known characters of the Old West. Very worthwhile read!
One of my favorite Louis L'Amour books. You have to suspend a little disbelief that the protagonist, Val Durrant, could have done so many things in his young life, but it's fun to read. You've got gun fights and fistfights, royalty and peasants, wild west and back east, heroes and villains. Who could ask for anything more?Abandoned as a child, Val Durrant, is raised by gambler gentleman Will Reilly. When Will is ambushed, Val-by then a young man-must decide his own destiny.
This was my favorite Louis Lamour from childhood but I hadn't read it in decades. What a great author. Made me fall in love with his writing again. My favorite quote from the book: "She was quiet, and I like it that way." You have to read that quote with a rough, course western drawl to get the full effect. I'll be quoting that for decades to come, although Angie doesn't think it is quite as funny as I do. Great plot, great characters.
