https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64369.Mindfulness_in_Plain_English
I expected an exceptional guide to meditation and was surprised to find the book also contained strong, clearly articulated reasons for cultivating mindfulness.
This is the best, most concise book on the subject I've read to date.
The directness with which ideas are expressed may be startling for some, but the rationale for practice offered throughout is solid.
I think it will appeal to any rational person, whether they subscribe to a particular religion or have no faith at all.
This is an excellent book.
It offers basic guidance for mindfulness practice and the motivation to actually take it up.The book is available for free in several electronic formats here: http://www.urbandharma.org/udharma4/m...
The very fact that you have looked at the problem straight in the eye means that you are on your way up and out of it.One popular human strategy for dealing with difficulty is autosuggestion: when something nasty pops up, you convince yourself it is not there, or you convince yourself it is pleasant rather than unpleasant.
Use all the moments you can.You see the way suffering inevitably follows in the wake of clinging, as soon as you grasp anything, pain inevitably follows.Your whole view of self changes at this point.
Still know that the best way to understand mindfulness and meditation is just by the very act of meditation itself, yet reading this book gave the great understanding of Buddha's teaching. In Vietnam, Buddhism is combined folklore with Confucian and Taoist teachings making this faith somehow vague despite the fact that most of Vietnameses identify themselves as a Buddist. Thank to the beautifully written books as this one that Buddism and mindfulness become understandable for those who in need.
“We are simply not paying enough attention to notice that we are not paying attention.” I have a meticulous system for taking notes when I read, but it didn’t work with Mindfulness in Plain English.
This is the best book on mindfulness and meditation that I’ve read to date.I read this book as a meditation refresher several years after I started meditating.
I didn’t expect all the profound insight on the true meaning of mindfulness.This book tells you what meditation is and what it isn’t.
If you’ve ever felt jealous, resentful, or just a little out of control, read this book.
Also an excellent articulation of the need and benefits of cultivating "loving friendliness" toward yourself, those you love, strangers, and even eventually toward your "enemies." The books strengths relative to others are a very useful orientation in which the author situates Vipassana meditative techniques and Theravada Buddhism within the broader Buddhist and meditative taxonomy.
Another relative strength is his gentle and caring descriptions of loving friendliness, the distractions we live with and create, and how insight meditation can help us achieve our desire to live fully, presently, with compassion toward others, and ultimately more meaningfully.This book is not the best book I've come across for those who are actually sitting regularly and engaged in the practice of Vipassana meditation already.
A Guide to vipassana meditation for a complete beginner. A clear and readable text. Would recommend to anyone who is looking to begin practicing meditation and don't want to get bogged down by theoretical and ritualistic stuff.
Meaning, I like to think about being Buddhist more than actually practicing.
It’s more like a philosophy or even a science than a religion because you can evaluate its truth and results rather than requiring faith to believe.I do believe there is great power in meditation to calm and focus the mind, release stress, and heal neuroses.
Buddhist practice is an ongoing investigation of reality, a microscopic examination of the very process of perception.
Buddhists feel that these truths are universal and self-evident to anyone who cares to investigate in a proper way.
Must read for beginner meditatorsThis is more than the 3rd times I re-read this great book, after 3 years practicing meditation. Each time I read it, each time I learn more out of it. Certainly, I will re-read if after more meditation. If there is only one book to suggest for beginner meditators on the practice side, no doubt that I would pick this one.
Hard to evaluate this book, because I've never read anything quite like it.
There is a lot of wisdom here.My favorite quote:We are learning here to escape into reality, rather than from it.Personally, I sought this book out because I needed it.
I had jumped into mindfulness meditation after reading one brief article in Psychology Today.
After a few months, I felt the need to deepen my understanding of what I was doing.This book fit that bill.
Firstly, I have little with which to compare this book.
Secondly, though the baggage may be minimal, there is still a little bit of preachiness here and there.
This was a book club pick and I tried my best to approach it with an open mind.
I can see how this book would be a great resource for people looking to learn the "secrets of meditation", the author himself states there are no secrets all that's required is a willingness to try and focus.
A person who already subscribes to a particular faith and finds themselves grounded within that faith will not find any use for this brand of meditation or mindfulness.
I truly believe that introspection can ground a person and help them find inner peace and happiness but that introspection does not necessarily demand one follow the Buddhist method.
No problems with the message(s) in this book, but the tone was not for me. The use of the second person combined with absolute statements struck me the wrong way, as did the repeated concept that every problem you have can be solved (or at least ameliorated) by meditation -- and that if it isn't, the solution is still meditation.
Despite having and constantly trying to deepen a daily meditation practice for years, I hadn't read this book.
Since I'm slowly in the process of trying to reintegrate vipassana into my existing meditation practice—one rooted in the Kundalini yogic tradition—I found this book the be an invaluable resource, not only as a reintroduction of sorts to vipassana (insight meditation), but also perhaps reminding me why I've always preferred vipassana practice to zazen ("just sitting").For those new to meditation and mindfulness practice, this book is perhaps the best place to start.
But, more importantly, this book will articulate how your practice of seated meditation carries over into your daily life, and how the point of meditation—and the most important part of meditation—begins after you have risen from your cushion.Start or deepen your practice here...
The author is writing from the perspective of the vipassana tradition, but what is unique about this book is that it primarily stays away from the spiritual side of Buddhism.
I found the two chapters on "Dealing with Distractions" particularly useful.One unfortunate side effect of keeping the books focus so sharply on technique, is that it seemed to lack the poetry and heart of other Buddhist authors like Thich Nhat Hanh or Charlotte Joko Beck.
Also, as is more typical of older Buddhist writing, there is a strong emphasis on the purpose of meditation being enlightenment, or achievement of an ultimate spiritual goal.
Despite what the title would have you believe, rather than simply explaining the Vipaâsyanåa meditation technique the author feels he has to go on and on about suffering, talk about how superior he is (in a humble way), and how much clearer everything will be once you achieve this intangible state of being.Oh but wait, you can't want to achieve this state.
This book made me want to eat fast food, drink a lot of coffee and generally run my mind 24/7 at 120 MPHs.That being said, the author at least knows what he is talking about to bad he doesn't know how to talk about it.
A must read for those interested in Vipassana meditation.The author is very clear and concise.Very easy to follow and understand.I will re read over and over
Great exposition of not only meditation but also of how to practice mindfulness throughout everyday life. (Also a great intro to Vipassana meditation.)
You are too cool to be a garden variety Jesus Freak, but you don’t like to read so you can define life on your own terms, so you turn to some used car salesman masquerading as a mystic who makes Tony Robbins seem articulate and sincere.All sarcasm put aside, if you want to meditate, just fucking do it.
You don’t need to be spoonfed this pop psychology turd which claims to answer all of life’s questions.

Forse il miglior manuale per chi vuole avvicinarsi alla pratica della meditazione, anche se alcuni concetti li si comprende solo con l'esperienza diretta. Il pericolo rimane sempre quello di crearsi uno schema mentale su come svolgere determinate attività, invece di limitarsi a svolgerle e toccare con mano la materia, ma è inevitabile quando si cerca di comunicare a parole un'esperienza.
This audio was easy and helpful to listen to; a detailed guide to mediation, and one I will reference frequently for my practice.
If you are trying to meditate but are extremely frustrated by the fact that meditation is totally impossible, read this book.It's excellent and thorough.
I've been using the Headspace app for a while, and that is helpful, but I needed more context and theory, and a better understanding of what I'm striving towards, and advice on how to deal with frustration over the reality that meditation is completely impossible.
It has specific, practical advice for the usual pitfalls we encounter when trying to meditate, and the rationale behind everything.
Felt repetitive, but that could have just been the attempt to put this material in "plain English"."This sums up my impression of the book.In some ways, the book was a perfection introduction to meditation; but in the end, I was glad once I was done to write my own summary that amounted to three pages.
2) meditation leads to mindfulness -- an elevated state where one reaches a new level of consciousness.
4) this state of consciousness is reached by letting go -- you can't grit your teeth and get there.
Mindfulness has been a topic that has continually appeared in my periphery (Wisdom 2.0 conference, Whil app, Time magazine cover, various web articles) that I wanted to explore its actual meaning and practice, rather than relying on my own assumptions and inference.
So, this book was helpful, interesting, simple.I've never read a book where the author spends such time defining the scope of what he will and will not cover.
If you're wondering: Buddhist Vipassana meditation.In the end, I don't believe I wish to be mindful after all.
But this "mindfulness" (as defined here) seeks to turn you into "a dispassionate observer" of life, free of emotional influence.
I was feeling overwhelmed and not really present in my life so I thought I'd try this book.
I took a mindfulness workshop ages ago, and I've read several other books since, but I've never incorporated the practice into my life for more than a few weeks at a time.
I borrowed it from the library a couple of months ago.
I can't actually remember much of what the book says - perhaps I didn't read it mindfully enough - but I remember really liking it.
But if I start practicing today, I should be feeling better in ten years or so.
Probably the best book on mindfulness I've read so far! As the title implies, this book is practical, actionable and easy to read. Now if only vipassana meditation was as easy as reading this book. Or even easy at all. If you're interested in getting into meditation, I think this book is as good an entry point as any. There are many styles of meditation, but I really enjoy the no-frills vipassana style. It's all about seeing the truth and pure experience, so it's not woo or fluffy. Great read!
This is an excellent introduction to mindfulness meditation. I'm impressed by the rational treatment given to meditation and the simple language used; it's mostly about meditation itself and rarely has "spiritual" stuff harm the message. It made me go from kind-of meditating to really starting to meditate the right way (watching thoughts, returning to the breath), how to deal with distractions, meditating in real life, and what mindfulness really means.
Great introductory text
This is a beautiful book, both in the message it conveys and in the way it conveys it.If you stripped away the religious encrustation that has built up around the teachings of the Buddha, you would have a simple plan for life and Gunaratana shows the way by defining the purpose of meditation with a goal of insight.The concept of the individual as a substantial thing and the endless pursuit of gain and avoidance of loss to the ego sentence us to misery.
It fully fulfills its promise of clear, straightforward advice on Vipassana meditation.
This is a hands-on, practical book on meditation and how to address issues that might arise during the practice thereof.
The language is straightforward, yet the statements made are powerful and engaging.Note that this book deals with Vipassana meditation, which is different from Zen meditation.
It even deals with such issues as numbness or boredom during meditation.Mindfulness in Plain English does touch on some spiritual or transcendental issues, and does so in a secular, straightforward manner.
As such, you might yearn for some additional background into Buddhism and spiritual context for Vipassana meditation.
Of course, this is not what meditation is and this book very early on put these false notions to rest.
It shows you that meditation, as described in this book, is all about three things.
The main point of the book is to show you how to attain and cultivate these three things and apply them to your life.
In fact, to me it seems when done properly and with full intention is likely the most difficult thing a human being can actively engage in, but because of this the rewards are immense.
