https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/782854.Eloise
I like to read him new books.
I've read bad children's books before.
Because Eloise tells us that her mom knows the *owner* which is apparently why she lives in the penthouse and gets to do whatever she wants.And that's it.
A little girl living a wish-fulfillment life where she does whatever she likes, never gets in trouble, everyone has to be nice to her, and she eats room service ever day.
I'm not saying this book doesn't has it's charming parts.
But is it a good book for children in this day and age?
Didn't like this book much.
Here is #5:On the second page of Kay Thompson’s Eloise, our intrepid young heroine is seen entering New York’s Plaza Hotel (with a fitting salute to the doorman) and that is the last we see of the outside world.
Eloise may entertain children, but it enlightens adults.
For claustrophobia is a malady of the mature.
To gain its foothold on the human consciousness, claustrophobia needs an ebbing of the imagination, curiosity, and self-assurance.
Eloise, who has seen no ebb in any of these traits, finds plenty to entertain herself within the walls of the Plaza.
I couldn't quite believe that Eloise is truly happy.FOR GROWN-UPS, PLEASE READ ON--reference to drugs and alcohol in following quotes:I am curious to learn more about Thompson's intent, especially as the subtitle is "A book for precocious grownups." On the Eloise website it addresses some of the changes, and apparently it WAS a book for grown-ups originally:"Over the years, there have been editing changes to the text of the story.
And when she goes to Miami she stays at the Roney and sends for me if there's some sun." now reads "She goes to Europe and Paris and sends for me if there's some sun." On the same page, as Eloise talks about her mother's laywer, she finishes with: "Here's what he likes Martinis.
Because and in my humble opinion, first and foremost, little Eloise is for all intents and purposes a sadly neglected and willfully unparented child, a poor little rich girl whose often absent and careless mother seems to spend much of her time traipsing around the world, leaving Eloise basically and constantly alone at the Plaza Hotel, cared for by a nanny and generally surrounded by ONLY adults who not only cannot take the place of a parent, but who as employees of the Plaza Hotel also generally would probably not even dare to discipline Eloise if or rather when her behaviour becomes an issue or a potential concern, considering that Eloise's mother is wealthy, socially connected and a close and personal friend of the hotel owner (and they, the diverse hotel employees, would likely be legitimately afraid of losing their jobs if they dared to be overtly critical of Eloise or even tried saying a categorical "no" to her).
Eloise is a precocious little rich girl who lives in a fancy hotel.
I got suckered into reading this out loud all in one go by a girl I was baby-sitting years ago, not realizing it was quite a bit longer than the standard picture book.
Perhaps I would have liked it better if I had read it as a child myself, although I don't think it would ever have been a favorite.
Growing up in poverty (and with moderately strict parents) I had a bit of a chip on my shoulder about rich kids and their supposedly-amusing antics.
Ooooooooooooooo I absolutely love this book series so much!  It is written in the stream of consciousness style of a 6 year old girl talking without any  punctuation.  Eloise (the 6 year old girl)  lives in the Park Plaza Hotel and has many adventures within it.  Nanny is her mostly companion, but her turtle, Skipperdee, and dog, Weenie, join in on the fun as well.  These books contain much humor, engaging even & sometimes even more so,  the adult reading the book.  I recommend this series to young and old alike!
Charming and witty book about a bright, loquacious, mischievous, imaginative 6 year old girl who lives at the Plaza Hotel in New York. First in the Eloise series and a good one to read first. Really fun to read to little girls and I still enjoy it.
Okay, so this story about a six year old isn't the most PC book on the library shelf.
One reviewer with clearly nothing better to do ranted on about Eloise, the "little bitch".
If you don't want to 'expose' your child to the silly adventures of a pretend girl in a pretend story then carefully tuck your child away with your old Christmas decorations for safe keeping until every book available to them is about being polite and eating organically.
This book was written over 60 years ago.
Say what you will about this, and all Eloise books.
Knight’s use of line and colour in this book is outstanding.Consider this moment between Nanny and Eloise.
Eloise is so furiously present, she’s a blunt punch of colour and Nanny, quietly having a good old smoke in the background, is a quietly lovely mixture of black and whites against the candy striped gaiety of the sofa.
She’s so in this moment, so very very present, that it’s an amazingly palpable moment to witness.Eloise is one of those books that lets you do everything you always wanted.
It’s a book of wish-fulfilment, of furious id, of glorious vivid living in the moment because right now the moment’s all that matters.
But I found this little girl and her life at the Plaza hotel mostly depressing .
a poor little rich girl, merely endured by most of the adults around her (and not endured at all by her parents -- dad is not mentioned at all, and mom is off jet-setting).
In any case, her questions and comments, normally a regular feature of a readaloud, petered out pretty early in the book, and she hasn't asked for it again.For a girl with an exciting life unsupervised by parents, give me Pippi Longstocking over Eloise, anyday.
The books and the movies.
Well, now I have read the book.
I think I could handle a typical 6-year old who has messy/bratty/spoiled tendencies, but part of me doesn't like the illustrations or how the story is told.
I want to right the wrong of her not having parents around and give her some proper discipline.
She should have had it long before the books began.
I think I'll be fine if I do not read the other 3 Eloise books or see one of the movies all the way through (Julie Andrews or no).
Eloise is one of my all-time favourite classic stories (the 2003 film came out on VHS the year my little brother was born so I was a big fan as a child). Comedic without vulgarity, complete with stunning illustrations, this book is great for all ages. :)
I was surprised by the things some commenters didn't like about this classic: Eloise isn't cute, she says "Oh my Lord" too much, her Nanny smokes, her situation with no parents is too sad, she is terribly spoiled.
To me, the only thing funnier than Eloise sklonking her stylist Vincent in the kneecap - and the picture of preening Vincent that accompanies it; really, has there ever been a more perfect union of text and illustration than Eloise?
Send me dinner and charge it please, thankyouverymuch!" (Although he doesn't understand why she hates Peter Rabbit.) Yes, Eloise is funnier as an adult, but that just gives all the five and six year-olds out there something to look forward to.
My mother didn't tell me until I was an adult that she liked this book--she probably thought Eloise wasn't the best role model for children (maybe she didn't want me to learn the phrase "charge it, please" too early in life. I do love room service, though.) A fun book with wonderful, predominantly pink illustrations, made even more interesting by learning that it was inspired by Kay Thompson's goddaughter, Liza Minnelli.P.S. I'm wondering if the "ad man" Eloise's mother knows is Don Draper. :)
I want to be Eloise. Yeah, I know, no one else feels that way at all.
, Eloise is one of those beloved picture-book characters that I somehow missed reading as a girl reader.
Read for The Picture-Book Club to which I belong, where our theme this month is "Classic Picture-Book Characters," Eloise is a book I couldn't help enjoying, even as I groaned at its heroine's behavior.
In fact, I think that the very things which would make her impossible to deal with in real life - the lack of adult supervision, the insistence upon doing anything and everything she likes - make her story into a wonderful childhood fantasy.
Recommended to young readers who like stories about trouble-making girls.
Did I enjoy reading about the mischievous young Eloise?Thompson’s children’s story combined with Knight’s adorably funny illustrations makes "Eloise" an absolutely fantastic read!
Hilariously enticing, Thompson’s picture book will have you in a giggle fit before you know it.Story | Plot"Eloise" is a tale about a rather bold and adventurous girl sharing the same name as the title, who tells readers her responsibilities and adventures in her home at The Plaza Hotel.
In my eyes, it’s simply a funny tale about a very hyper girl who literally can’t stand still for more than 10 seconds.Fun fact: "Eloise" was originally meant more for adults rather than children.
Patron complaint: Eloise goes to a museum in Paris and sees a painting of a naked person. I actually agree with the patron's assertion that the book should be placed in the junior fiction, instead of in picture books--but not because there are cartoon boobs. Mostly I just think the writing is too sophisticated for younger readers. In fact, why not shelve it in the adult section, along with Junie B. Jones, because those books are also hilarious, I think.
In fact, I'm not sure if there is much in these books for kids, unless they're at least 7 - 8 (not sure why the book is recommended to 3 year olds and over, even if my son rawther liked it ...) having gained some insight into the complicated world of adults.
Her nanny, although perhaps tender with her, does not seem to do but the strict minimum (understandably) and Eloise is left to entertain herself in the rawther child unfriendly environment of the hotel hallways and lobby.
Eloise tries to make herself useful and kills time "helping" the staff.
Realistically, I have read this sweet, beloved classic novel many times.
Did I mention the forlorn ," Velveteen Rabbit ?" Madelaine?" I'll stop and say that the draw on this book beside being geared for young francophiles is mainly projected for children who have a flair for drama to look and sound like the protagonist.
To conclude, this beloved copy should never be remiss in any children's personal library /book shelf or withheld without regular copies personally belonging to them.
I never read Eloise as a child. It was probably banned in Alvin. Eloise is a six year old girl who lives in the Plaza Hotel in New York City, with a mostly absent mom and an indulgent set of servants to care for her.  There is something appealing about Eloise, but there is also something very appaling, too. Eloise is American, living free, unrestricted, doing everything she wants, enjoying her life, with little care about anything outside her world. Am I being too judgmental here? After all, this is a children's book.
This book was fantastic. I do not remember reading Eloise when I was little. This particular version has a delightful story about the author, Kay Thompson. She was very well known as a dancer, singer, writer and had a show with Andy Williams and his three brothers during her career. It was fascinating to read about her and there was also a piece written by Hilary Knight (a man) who drew the pictures. His artwork is delightful. Eloise was fun to read, quite the precocious little six year old who lives at The Plaza in New York City.
This is a book that parents will either love or hate.
I can certainly identify with the parents who gave this book 1 star.
It is true that you'd be horrified if you had a child that acted like Eloise - she's naughty, rude, demanding and disrespectful.
This book was written in 1955 and yes, one illustration shows the nanny smoking in front of Eloise.
The text reminds me a little of Alexander and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good Very Bad Day. It is also true that the parents are nowhere to be seen in this book.
Eloise is six, she lives in the Plaza Hotel in New York City and she was the #5 bestseller on the adult fiction list in 1956.
Eloise's creator, Kay Thompson, was an actress, entertainer, vocal arranger and coach for musicals, who died at 89 years of age.
The book is subtitled "A book for precocious grown-ups about a little girl who lives at the Plaza Hotel." Lewis Carroll, Roahd Dahl, Dr Suess and several others became famous writing books that appeal to children and make grown-ups laugh but I think Kay Thompson outshone them all.
Six year old Eloise, the daughter of an apparently absent socialite mother, lives at the Plaza hotel in New York City and is raised by Nanny, a frazzled Englishwoman who appears unable to keep up with Eloise's boundless energy and imagination.
The book is told from Eloise's perspective and follows a typical day of mischief-making at the Plaza Hotel.
To Eloise, just about anything "makes a good hat." Good fun for me and my 4-year old.
Eloise's creativity and imaginativeness are refreshing qualities that harken back to simpler times when it was impossible to get bored, when fun and games were made from everyday items rather than screens and expensive toys.
The version I got included a scrapbook by Marie Brenner that told more about the creation of Eloise and about her popularity and so on.
I do feel bad for her since her mother is off traveling and she is left with a nanny and mostly fends for herself (although I don't think pity is the emotion Eloise would want anyone to have for her).
Eloise seems to leap right off the pages and it feels as if you know her in real life (regardless of whether you really like her).
So, like, I realize that I needed to read this book, right? It's a classic, right? Well. Here I am pissed because I read this book already. Well this is Miss Margaux reporting that she doesn't quite care for Eloise. She's a spoiled brat who needs to learn about punctuation. I'd much prefer Madeline if we're looking at a European-style chickadee. However. It's an easy reader-ish book with pink and black illustrations that I absolutely adore. I'd recommend this book for the illustrations alone. So that's why it got two stars instead of just the one.
Yes, this was a very random read. I just needed a quick break from the series I'm reading, and when I was growing up I loved watching the tv show about Eloise, so I decided to read the book. Eloise is annoying and spoiled, but she's aldo adorable and reading about her made me so nostalgic. This book doesn't even have any good morals, so I'm not sure how good it is for an actual child, but I think they would be entertained, if nothing else.
Delightful. Of course, I would not want to work in the hotel where this child lived, but the book is charming (and I love the illustrations, which are allowed to do most of the work in the story, if you ask me). Love that there is a fold-out page of her elevator riding scheme in this edition. Next I need to read about Eloise's adventures in Paris and Moscow!
Was curious to read this book as an adult with adult maturity and understanding of class differences. I feel about it the way I feel about American Girl Place: an unspoken line drawn in the sand that only money can cross. Yet those with money would be quick to deny that such a line exists.
