https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35332.Remember
This book.
Oh, my goodness, this book.
Tugged at my heartstrings more than any other book has.
I am in love with the Baxter family.
In love with their stories, their heartaches.
I feel like they are a part of me now.I knew beforehand that Karen Kingsbury does not write books that are full of fluffy Christianity, puppies, and rainbows.
She writes about things that are tough and hard.
Christians going through good times and bad times.
I've been searching for an author who doesn't shy away from the hard facts about Christianity and Kingsbury is the best at giving the real picture.
An OK fast light read for when you are in the mood for a soap opera. YA level of writing makes it a good choice on evenings when you are too tired to concentrate or engage your brain, but it would be a more enjoyable novel if any of the characters would grow a brain and engage it--but that would make it a shorter, leaner novella. This sausage was made with too much filler and not enough meat.
While still keeping the reader in touch with the entire Baxter family, this book centered more on Ashley – the self prescribed black sheep of the family, and Luke – the perfect son whose life isn’t so perfect anymore.
Ashley sought out to find more in life and traveled to Paris to make her mark in the art world and have some adventure.
Landon Blake has loved Ashley and tried to win her over since they were in their teens, but Ashley never returned that love because she felt Landon was just life her family – “safe”.
Convinced she could make it on her own, Ashley Baxter has kept the most important people in her life at a distance—her family, the man who loves her, and the God she is sure can never forgive her.
Series: book 2 in the Redemption series; book 2 in the Baxter family series.Rating: 4 starsThis was a fascinating read.
It isn't often that you read about either Alzheimer's or 9/11, but this book combined both subjects perfectly.I'm actually surprised at how much I enjoyed this.
Perhaps I would find this series more credible if the characters didn’t seem so stereotypical and plastic and didn’t constantly tear up and cry so consistently.
(I didn’t find one.) This story highlights Ashley and her problems.
She is working in an Alzheimer’s ward and in love with Landon, firefighter extraordinaire.
Perhaps the most interesting aspect of the story revolves around Ashley and her work in an Alzheimer’s ward.
In fact, the patients are far more interesting – and so are their back stories – than the main characters.
What a good book, I liked it better than the first one in the series. It brought back memories of 9/11 and what a horrific day in our Nations history. Very well written, Ashley was so compassionate with the patients she cared for, thank goodness Belinda finally got her due. Now on to book 3.
Yes, it was a little soap opera-ish and sometimes felt a little too much like a Victorian morality story from a pamphlet preaching the consequences of sin, and there were parts that grated just a little too much with my worldview, but overall I found it a pretty fun read.
And every time someone has sex, they get pregnant and of course no one has heard of a condom!).
There was a lot of growing in this book and I always like to see that.
This was another great read in the Baxter Family Series, it is the second in the series and only the second book by Karen Kingsbury that I have read and I hope I enjoy the next book as well.
There is a theme in this series so far (I say this only being two books in) in which the main characters struggle with the same sin.
But I really enjoy the characters I feel invested in the family and I feel like I am ready to tackle, with great joy and anticipation, the next book in the series.
The second in the Baxter Family / Redemption series.
Ashley went to Paris for a year just after high school and came home pregnant, no longer religious, and harboring a secret that shapes and affects all of her personal relationships.
Many of the characters in the story are shaken by these events and it affects the course of their lives, and thus their relationships with those closest to them.
I know that I am in for the 'long haul' now that I have started into these books...there are five books in the Redemption series, five in the Firstborn series and four in the Sunrise series...and they are all about the Baxter family!!!
This is the 2nd book of the Redemption series and focuses on the daughter Ashley, and how she comes to realize who she is in this world.
She seems to pass her son off on her parents as they raise him the majority of the time while she discovers who she is in this life and tries to figure out her relationship with God. Throughout this book, Ashley reignites her relationship with God, allowing Him to show her the blessings in her life.
Throughout this journey, her God-fearing parents, John and Elizabeth, continue to pray for her throughout her life's journey.
The Redemption series is remarkable mainly for showing real people, real Christians, handling very much real world problems.
Not for the faint of heart.
This is more modern day, and the characters are not perfect, nor does everything always have a happy ending.
Parts of this book were difficult to read, because you weren't sure that Christian ideals and principles were really going to be upheld, or whether it would descend to the level of a soap opera - it didn't.
But like the Bible itself, it has adultery, murder, temptation, and no fairy tale ending.
When I first started reading them I couldn't get enough..and it seemed to take "forever" for her next book to come out.
After a while though, I felt I knew what was going to happen once I had started reading each book.
Her books are wonderful - if I felt I was reading a complete different series that would have a different outcome I would rate her books on a whole as 5 starts...but only feel I can give the books 3 stars on a whole because of the repeatability of the books.
Didn't realize this was of Christian novel genre when I picked it up and generally wouldn't have given it a second look. There is an interesting possibility in developing the Baxter family characters, unfortunately itdoesn't happen. It reads like a soap opera and provided a "jelly read" (your mind turns to jelly if you read too many of these). Evidently part of a series, but have no intention of reading any more of the series. I've struck out twice on latest reads.
Light read. Missing some substance in parts. Enjoyed some parts more than others. just okay.
I like this series of books because everything is not just "happily ever after". I think it's more realistic than some.
Love Ashley Baxter and her story! You find out why Ashley is the way she is, and her rediscovery of her faith!
This family is becoming so dear to my heart. I wish they were real instead of fictional. While reading I tend to forget this is just a piece of fiction, instead of a story about a real family.
Even when Landon returns home and he and Ashley both express how they feel, Landon goes back to New York to work at a fire house for at least a year.
Ashley's job working at a home with Alzheimer's patients helps her tremendously with her feelings and also her love of God. John and Elizabeth Baxter continue with their faithfulness in God and trust Him to help with family struggles.
She goes to New York to be with her mother after the tragedy happens and the family knows her father won't be coming home.
Reading these books I find myself pausing and comparing similarities in my life.
God answers our prayers.
During the journey we realize God has indeed answered our prayers and although it was not the answer we were expecting at the time, it is a wonderful answer just the same.
It's a wonderful experience.I'm anticipating what Book three, Return.
As I've noted vaguely above, life (faith) is a journey, and some of the trails we walk come back to where we began the walk.
Now working to take care of Alzheimer’s patients, Ashley’s ability love is coming back after losing it in Paris.
She now sees Landon Blake, a firefighter who has loved her since middle school, in a different light.
But Landon’s friend Jalen Hale is caught in the tragedy of September 11 and Landon is determined to find Jalen’s body.
This book reminds everyone that they need to treasure the moments they have with the people in their lives.
I recommend this book for anyone who feels like they need to remember and appreciate people more or anyone who wants to enjoy a good read.
This is the second book in the Baxter series and couldn’t be more in love with the series.
I found myself feeling encouraged by the characters in this book, knowing that even though these are fictional characters their situations and the truth of the gospel is real.
This book centers around the Baxter family and those closest to them.
In this book you see and feel the hurt, sorrow, anger, confusion and yet you also see the love, strength and encouragement that through it all God is in control and will never leave us.
This is ther second book in the Redemption series.
The main focus is the relationship between Ashley Baxter and Landon Blake, though the story follows the entire Baxter family.
I liked Ashley's interaction with Alzheimer's patients through her job.
The September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks are prominent.
I find that even after 16 years, I am not ready for this, and actually experienced a cold chill in the room while reading.
My major criticism of this series is that the books do not stand alone.
It is as if a story was written and someone chose arbitrary spots to start and stop books within that story.
This book is the second in the Redemption series. This book tells the story of Ashley Baxter and her life after her growing up in a Christian home. After taking a job in an Alzheimer's patients home Ashley slowly starts to learn what love is--then 9/11 happens and tragically a Baxter sibling falls victim to the aftermath that shakes their faith to the core.This is a book of tragedy and healing, hurt and forgiveness. Redemption and a powerful lessons about remembering.
This book made me cry. I could identify with many of the feelings of the characters in this story. The details about September 11, 2001 were very sad and very well described. LOVED the part about the Alzheimer's patients where Ashley works. I loved how she made their lives better and more meaningful. This series is getting better with each new book. I am loving the Baxter family and can't wait to read the next book.
It's so refreshing to see characters stumble and question their faith and also to find their faith in the midst of tragedy. Some people don't like stories like that but it makes the characters that much more real and I can relate to them more as well as the story. I was rooting for Ashley and Landon, Kari and Ryan, and for Brooke and Peter. I loved the Alzheimer's story line. I was able to learn more about it, having no real life experience with it. Excellent novel!
Remember is my favorite book in the Redemption series. It is the one that made me fall in love with the Baxter family and care about them as if they were my own family. This book is very emotional and you see a lot of growth in the characters. I couldn't put this one down, and it held my interest the entire time reading it. AMAZING book.
While wanting to read “Christian Fiction” (and having read a few Baxter books out of order many years ago) I chose this series. I’m disappointed with the quality of writing among some other things. Am I supposed to believe this could actually happen to One family? In addition, the book needed to have ended long before it did.
Beautiful, absolutely beautiful. Ashley Baxter has become my favorite Baxter. Her story is so true to life. People stumble, but we must remember...Remember who we are and how we got here. In addition, this is another fantastic book from Karen Kingsbury that deals with September 11th in a very appropriate way. My heart aches for so many of these characters. 10/10 would recommend this book!
Remember - Karen KingsburyAnother incredible book I could not put down.I am seeing life differently through your books.It's truly life changing fiction.Thank you Karen and God for your AMAZING talent and sharing it with us.God bless
So many trials and tribulations in life and with a big family it is even more so. Ashley has come around but now Luke has fallen away from faith. Hopefully the next book brings him back into the fold.
