https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18500665-end-of-days
Dear Susan Ee,Could I just like... live with you until you finish the whole series?? I realize it may be creepy and all, but I wouldn't disturb you or anything. I would just... be there... reading every word you put down and when you have other things to do, I'll just go to my corner and wait. Occasionally you would find that there's some food missing from your fridge, but that's not so bad.. right?I would have to use the toilet too though... and the shower... can't stink up the place.I haven't
reading every word you put down and when you have other things to do, I'll just go to my corner and wait.
I WAS READY TO BE READING THIS SERIES FOR YEARS TO COME!!!
Maybe that means we'll get a spin off or something with some other characters???
I'm confused.EDIT:It's been a long time already but I'm still not over the beauty of that fucking cover.
-.-I wonder what Miss Ee had in mind when it was going to be 5 books.
I will say that there was lots of dramatic screaming involved when (view spoiler)[Raffe gave up his wings.
Soon, pooky bear, soon.
But I didn't want satisfactory for the end of Penryn and Raffe's journey.This was supposed to be epic.
I'm angriest because I know that Ee has it in her to wring truly powerful moments of raw emotion from her characters and readers.
I felt it when Raffe first realised Penryn was alive again in World After.Yet I honestly can't think of a single moment of End of Days that sticks out to me as emotive or heartfelt.
Not a single Eeism, which I define as a condition when you want to marry a book because it gave you so many feels.This isn't the review I wanted to be writing for End of Days.
5 STARSUPDATE: FULL REVIEW (WARNING: MINOR SPOILERS)(Join our End of Days discussion here: https://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/...)  "Someone has sprayed graffiti on the ceiling. A crude knight stands alone with his sword drawn against a fire-breathing dragon that is ten times his size. The dragon's tail disappears into darkness where the window light fades deep into the store. Beside the knight are the words “Where Have All the Heroes Gone?”    It looks to me like the artist thought the knight
It's been three months since I read it, and I still can't wrap my head around the fact that it's over.To sum this book up in 10 words, "It is everything I wanted it to be—and more."It begins right where World After left off—Raffe with Penryn in his arms, flying, and Paige sitting on Beliel's body which is being carried by scorpion-tailed locusts.
A Daughter of Man.Raffe, on the otherhand, has always been a fierce believer and follower of angelic rules but in this book, the battle between his responsibilities and his heart gets tougher.
“This is the way the series ends:Not with a bang, but a whimper.”― T.S. EmilyThough World After wasn't bad, I think this series reached a glorious high at the end of Angelfall and never quite reached the same heights again.
Especially given that Angelfall was self-published back at a time when that pretty much guaranteed no one would read it.
Everyone was surprised when it became a huge success and perhaps Ms Ee was most surprised of all(?)This book is just fine - not badly written, but I didn't feel a single emotion while reading it.
I'm the type of person who loves blood, gore, and explosions.
Explosions!
It was great.For about half an hour.And then I just got SO bored.
Like when was this going to end?
There was too much action that it bored the hell out of me.
I lost all attachment and enjoyment in the movie, and in the end, I just sat there for the remainder of the film, falling asleep as things were getting blasted into pieces on the screen in front of me.
I just had enough.I think that was what ended up happening to this book.
ALL I'M ASKIN' FOR IS TO HAVE PENRYN TURN INTO AN ANGEL SO THEY COULD HAVE CHILDREN THAT WOULDN'T EAT/TERRORIZE MAN KINDP.S. ever since the 2nd book I've been eating peanut butter non-stop, and I didn't even like peanut butter before...LOL*follow for more reviews :)
*Sees publication date*
I need Susan to write. Not to eat, sleep, bathe or have toilet breaks. Just write. And write fast. I demand this book. And I demand Raffryn.
Then:Now:
Susan Ee surpassed that wildest expectation without even trying.End of Days follows shortly after where World After left it off, Penryn and Raffe are trying to find a doctor that could stitch back Raffe’s angel wings and to find a cure for her sister Paige.
Will Penryn and Raffe work together or against each other?From what I gathered from all the apocalyptic novels I’ve read, they are usually intense and can be very boring.
And oh boy, this bunch of characters are so fun to read even the 
Though I have to say, Penryn, Raffe, her mom, Paige and Beliel are my favorites.The romance will have everyone moaning.
Okay first there were like 3 or 4 more books to comeThen we learned that this was going to be the last book,but we all knew somehow that is going to be like 800+ pages longAnd then we learned that the last book is going to have only 336 pages,like what??10/4/14
I can't believe I used to actually like Penryn, in this she was nothing but a desperate-pervy-loser who cared more about herself and the guy she'd known for a few months than her traumatised sister and the rest of humanity.-I couldn't stand Penryn's non-stop fangirling of Raffe, every other sentence she was banging on about how sexy he looked or how he made her girly parts tingle.
Never mind, her brutally tortured 7 year old sister who was slowly starving to death or the war and apocalypse around her, the only things on her mind were Raffe's sexy abs and hot wings.-What the hell happened to Penryn?!
I tried to wait for the crushing disappointment to dissipate a bit before writing this review, so at least you won't have to listen to me rant like a lunatic. Much.Was this a bad book? Ehhhhhhh.It just wasn't anything like what I expecting.Ok, my biggest problem with this was that literally NONE of the questions I had were answered.  NONE! So if you go into End of Days thinking that you're going to find out about the origin of the angles, who/what they really are, and whether or not they're real
Ehhhhhhh.It just wasn't anything like what I expecting.Ok, my biggest problem with this was that literally NONE of the questions I had were answered.
Maybe I'm one of the few people who didn't lurve the end of this trilogy.Other than the gripes I already talked about, the last thing is that I never really got into this story the way I did the other two books.
I finished it in a day, and while I wasn't in love with anything about it, I can't honestly say that it was The Worst Book Evah, either.It was (for me) a middle-of-the-road kind of story, with an ending that felt rushed and unfinished.Also reviewed for:
Although I did like the inclusion of the pit, there really wasn't a whole lot added and I was very disappointed with all the things the author never explained about this world.
It kind of feels like maybe the author only wanted one bad-ass female character around the angels - Penryn.
That seems like an easy way for the author to enable Penryn and Raffe to have babies and a cheesy HEA.
The insta-love Penryn had for Raffe worked because he was a hot angel and it was the end of the world and yes, they formed an unusual bond because of extraordinary and traumatic circumstances.
Feb. 8th, 2015I WAS DEAD BUT SUSAN EE BROUGHT ME BACK TO LIFE.
THAT COVER.
I'M BEING OVERWHELMED BY FEELS.
IT'S PRETTY.
I WANNA CRY.
IT'S GOING TO END.
I'M SAD.
WHY ONLY THREE BOOKS.
I WILL NEVER GET OVER RAFFRYN.
NEVER.Dear Susan Ee,I'm ordering you to write and finish this book as soon as possible.Please, take your time writing this, Ms. Ee.
'Coz I'll just wait impatiently here.
It's not like I can torture the sequel out of you, right?One request, though.
MORE RAFFRYN SCENES!One of your number one fans,Kirstin
perhaps the most IMPORTANT thing I've learned from this book is how to ride an angel.
Be sure to grab on with all your limbs lol/end angel riding tutorial➦There's so much craziness going on in this book and it's non-stop action - I LOVED it!
The creatures described in this series sure are something.
Everything from sarcastic banter to crazy descriptions of trips into hell to epic angel/scorpion battles!
Even the HFN ending, I was thankful it didn't turn into a cheese fest.
➦Totally recommend this series to my PNR/Fantasy/Dystopia loving friends out there.
angels.*A remarkably tough, resourceful, and downright loveable heroine.*A cocky but sexy love interest who also happens to be an archangel.*Holy sexual tension.*Banter.*SHIP RUINERS.*More banter.*Creepy, gruesome creatures straight out of hell.*A fun supporting cast, including a crazy mother who you will love to hate but then come to have the oddest respect for.*Tons of action alongside swoon-worthy romance.*A sword named Pooky Bear.In this third and final book, it seems humanity is holding its last breath.
The world is coming to an end, what with the angels declaring Judgment Day and willing to obliterate humanity for their own nefarious purposes, but I just needed to know one thing: are Penryn and Raffe endgame?!
Powerful conclusion to one-of-a-kind series! "We are soldiers, Penryn. Legendary warriors willing to make legendary sacrifices. We do not ask. We do not choose." Since this is the last book in series and I don't want to spoil it for those who haven't read it yet, I'm going to keep my review sweet and short. Keep in mind that End of Days has quite different dynamics than previous instalments. So if you expect another Angefall and World After, you will be disappointed. Once I got used to this diff
Since this is the last book in series and I don't want to spoil it for those who haven't read it yet, I'm going to keep my review sweet and short.
Once I got used to this different "drive" (around 30%), I could not put this book down and read it in one sitting.
End of Days is one of the best stories about survival I have ever read.
(Only Josh & Sky from I'll Meet You There compare, but that is a story for another time.) And until the very end of this book I had no idea if Penryn and Raffe would get their HEA or not.
EDIT: Because I have to add this GIF. This was me pretty much during the whole book. ---What a stunning and satisfying conclusion to one of my favorite series ever! At first I was really worried about this being the last book BUT Susan Ee did it again! She managed to write this one without the feeling of this being "rushed". I absolutely LOVED it!Actual Rating: 4.5/5 stars Full review to come closer to release date.
I honestly didn't expect to like this series as much as I did but it was so great!This was a fantastic close, even if it was a bit convenient.The characters are what made this book. I love Penryn and Raffe so muuuuuuuuch.Overall, pretty fantastic trilogy.
✬✬✬✬ Overall Series✰✰✰✰✰ Angelfall✬✬✬✬ World After✰✰✰✰ End of DaysBuddy read with a ridiculous number of people at  Buddies Books and Baubles End of Days took what I loved in Angelfall and World After and added to it some of the things I missed, more of the stuff I loved and gave it entirely new dimensions.A List of Awesomeness in End of Days:✔ - More Romance - OkayIwaswrong (totally sigh worthy trust me) and some YA hot fans-self worthy moments….hint rhymes with missing✔ - Weirder Imagery (who
Sometimes there is rhyme to her reason and other times…well you’ve read the other books so you know.✔ - #TeamFallen – I’m totally on the Fallen Watchers team.✔ - PAIGE - *sobs* that little girl has been through hell but at least Penryn isn’t afraid of her anymore.✔ - POOKY BEAR – is as epic and awesome as ever with a few new tricks up her sleeve.✔ - Redemption of a character I thought unredeemable.✔ - Angel Elections a fascinating blend of democracy, fighting and survival of the fittest all at the same time.✔ - Crazy creatures and epic battles✔ - AND FINALLY – an ending that I really liked.
Review to come in a few hours.
It was always like this: [Paige is missing or whatever] Raffe and Penryn have to get from point A to point B for obscure reasons, he flies with her, they encounter bad guys, they fight, then they almost lose but oh no wait they survive, and they manage to escape, they go into a random house, some flirting ensues, then they have to go somewhere else, so they leave, and then they fight...
Since the book is first-person narrated in present tense, you know she can’t die, but that didn’t stop the author from giving us DOZENS of scenes where it seems like Penryn can’t win, and at the last second, something or someone shows up and saves her.
UPDATE: I lowered my rating (again) because the more I think about the book the less I like how it turned out. “Who wants to go to heaven anymore? There's nothing but angels there.” Since I'm a bit conflicted let's make this review ♛ (positive things) vs. ✖ (well that is pretty self-explanatory).♛ It wasn't a bad book. While it wasn't as good of a conclusion as Dreams of Gods and Monsters or Shadowfever and it didn't give me a million and six feelings like Ignite Me, I enjoyed it and I think it
While it wasn't as good of a conclusion as Dreams of Gods and Monsters or Shadowfever and it didn't give me a million and six feelings like Ignite Me, I enjoyed it and I think it concluded some things and left others open in a way that makes sense.✖  But it wasn't a very memorable book either.
But still, when I read the first two books in a pretty much the same period of time, I remembered a lot of it.
All the humans in this book feel fleshed out, even if they get a very short amount of page time.
I was really devastated when Raffe didn’t really show up in the most part of World After because the main reason why I love this series so much is because of him <3 he is such a sweetheart and it doesn’t hurt that he is pretty witty ;) 
I like how Penryn grew throughout the series from someone who only thinks about protecting her family to someone who is selfless and learns to take on responsibility for a larger group of people.
Like, yeah I get that Raffe is attracted to Penryn but how did it change to love??
I'm sad that there won't be any more books coming from this series but I'd sure as hell love to read some other book Ee releases in the future.
You'll have to read to find out.If you're a fan, a shipper, of Penryn and Raffe then you'll probably love this book.
Raffe, okay, he's the tough type and while some authors get the whole attitude wrong, Ee did him justice, balancing the tough facade and his real self.I only wish that after the final battle scene, the ending of the book would have laster a little while longer so I could have said my goodbyes more properly.
Buddy read with all my favorite whores: Harriet, Anna, Jenny, Kat, Sarah, Portia annnnnndddddd yours trulyyyyy!!! (Click for their wonderful reviews) "It'll be tough for them to take any action while I'm pummeling their faces. Disrespect will not be tolerated."I half smile at him. "Because you're all about respect."He sighs as if a little disgusted with himself. "Lately, I seem to be all about you."  Beautiful, mesmerizing, addicting....perfect. It's no secret to anyone that knows me that this i
I have fangirled about this series to friends and enemies alike, if only to spread a little more of the Raffe love-oh yeah, did I mention he's my number one book guy??
And my conclusion is this: While the story is amazing, unforgettable, and utterly epic, it wouldn't mean half of what it did to me without Penryn and Raffe's unattainable love for one another.
Any flaw is minuscule to the immense enjoyment I found while reading this wonderful, addicting, and, again, UNFORGETTABLE series about a beautiful, tormented, and lonely angel who feels the only person he can trust in the world is the daughter of man who once took him hostage.
I read the entire thing and never once read a line where I had to go back and think "wait, what?" I love Raffe and Penryn's relationship.
However, this book (as well as the earlier books...) are a bit frustrating because there's so much angst between them and the entire "we can't be together!!!" trope.
it got kind of exhausting after a while, and even a bit useless because there were so many kissing scenes anyway.
But overall a very enjoyable series and I love Penryn and Raffe and now i'm on a hunt for a man with wings.
So strange to see this series ending after all these years. I remember when it was a wee indie that could, pressed upon me by friend after friend. How far we've come! Excited to see how Penryn's story ends. (And very glad we don't have to wait for another 3 books to find out!)
