https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1158288.King_s_Ransom
Steve Carella and other detectives from the 87th Precinct spring into action and are busy setting traps on King's phone lines and doing the other things that the police would normally do in such a case when Bobby walks through the door after playing outside.It turns out that the kidnappers have made a critical mistake.
Doug King would have been willing to pony up the money for his own son, but he's not so sure about ransoming back the chauffer's kid, because if he does, he will not have the money he needs to complete his big business deal.While Carella and the other detective try to track the kidnappers and rescue the boy, Doug King must wrestle with his conscience and decide what to do.
The book opens during a long scene at a board meeting where several share holders begin plotting to gain control of the company so they can produce a cheaper shoe.
But worse is to come when it's discovered the kidnapped boy was not his son but rather the Chauffeur's boy; the dilemma of whether to still pay the ransom and financially ruin himself or to save himself and let the boy die being one that would have social consequences just as final.The entire precinct are called out to hunt the kidnappers, though the police angle on this one is secondary to the King family and the Kidnappers.
At that very moment, kidnappers seize his young son Bobby and demand a $500,000 ransom.
And I was right in my expectations of the behavior of Our Boys: although they -- along with everyone else -- make it plain that they think Doug's eventual decision not to pay the ransom sucks, they have no big confrontation with him about it, make plain that it's his decision and his alone, and in general retain that level of courtesy and restraint for which Carella at least is renowned.McBain's 87th Precinct tales are always good value, and this is no exception.
النسخة التي قرأتها من هذه الرواية تابعة لسلسلة(Oxford Bookworms Library)ولمن لا يعرف هذه السلسلة فهي
Τώρα, όσον αφορά το βιβλίο, δηλώνω για άλλη μια φορά ικανοποιημένος από την γραφή του Μακμπέιν, από την όλη ιστορία, από την ατμόσφαιρα, γενικά από τα πάντα.Ο Ντάγκλας Κινγκ είναι ένας αδίστακτος επιχειρηματίας, γεμάτος φιλοδοξίες, που ξεκίνησε από απλός υπάλληλος αποθηκών στην μεγάλη εταιρεία παπουτσιών Γκράνγκερ και σιγά-σιγά ανέβηκε τα σκαλοπάτια της ιεραρχίας και σήμερα είναι έτοιμος να κλείσει μια μεγάλη συμφωνία για να εξασφαλίσει τον έλεγχο της εταιρείας.
Στο μεταξύ, ο ντετέκτιβ Καρέλα και οι υπόλοιποι αστυνομικοί του 87ου Αστυνομικού Τμήματος, προσπαθούν με κάθε τρόπο να βρουν τα ίχνη που θα τους οδηγήσουν στους απαγωγείς...Η όλη πλοκή δεν κρύβει ιδιαίτερες εκπλήξεις ή ανατροπές, αν και ως ένα σημείο πίστευα ότι κάτι άλλο μπορεί να παίζει πίσω από την απαγωγή.
King’s Ransom is a morality tale, told by one of the best— Ed McBain.
We really have but one crime on which the story hinges: the kidnapping of an eight year old boy and a ransom demanded from the wealthy industrialist presumed to be the child’s father.
McBain lays out the cards pretty quickly: paying the $500,000 ransom is doable, but will cost the tycoon a deal that will consequently bankrupt him and lose him the company he has worked his entire life to acquire and run.
Saving the life of another person’s child— at the cost of one’s own financial ruin, however, less so.
Another great tale from the 87th Precinct. A boy is kidnapped by the inept villains have the wrong boy. Lt Byrnes and Steve Carella lead the cavalry. A man driven by his own success, a crude radio transmitter, a shootout and a boy that will not tell all add up to a classic read.
Given that I recently purchased Akira Kurosawa's High and Low as part of Barnes and Noble's July Criterion sale, I figured that as I haven't watched that movie yet it might be a good idea to read its inspiration, Ed McBain's King's Ransom..
The mystery is compelling enough and the short length of the book makes for an easy read.I plan on watching High and Low next month as part of my Noirvember Challenge so I'm really looking forward to getting stuck into it and seeing how well Kurosawa adapts this book.
It ranges from the complete ruthlessness of one of the kidnappers to much more compassionate views of others.
The three kidnapper's have there own morel views weighing in.
One kidnapper's wife is horrified that the more ruthless member of the group may be planning to kill the child when he gets the money and wants to prevent that.
Her husband is between a rock and hard place because he so desperately wants the money but is unsure if he can go as far as killing the child.
This is one of the better stories in the 87th Precinct series. This one concerns a kidnapping. Aside from one or two inappropriate conversations (who negotiates a business deal in the middle of a kidnapping ordeal), this book provided some good suspense along with three dimensional characters. If you want to read a single book out of the series, this would be a good one to choose.
An Enjoyable Read Kidnappers target Doug King, a rich executive at the Granger shoe company. McBain examines the strain the situation puts on both the gang of kidnappers and the household affected by the kidnapping. The story has a 1950’s ring to the dialogue - an enjoyable read and gets a solid 4 star from this reader.
Одна из лучших вещей раннего Макбейна, довольно нетипичная для цикла — книга в основном показывает происходящее с точки зрения преступников и жертв, а сыщики появляются в кадре от случая к случаю и по сути выполняют функции пассивных наблюдателей.
Книга подчеркнуто не про них (подозреваю, что Макбейн изначально писал standalone роман, а потом уже решил по-быстрому добавить немного Кареллы et al и выпустить в серии про 87 участок).
Книга про похищение сына миллионера, про поведение людей в критической ситуации, про столкнование мировоззрений бедных и богатых, про неудобные социальные вопросы в духе «чем акула бизнеса отличается от акулы преступного мира», про то, что любой выбор всегда имеет свою цену.
The intended kidnap victim of this novel is Bobby King, son of Doug King, a rich executive at a shoe company who’s wrapped up in a boardroom fight for control of the company where he’s spent his entire career working.
But the kidnappers make off with the wrong boy - Jeffry Reynolds, the son of King’s chauffeur.
And for King, will he pay the ransom anyways to ensure the safety of his chauffeur's only son, even though he’s counting on that money to help him take over the Granger Shoe Company and fulfill his career ambitions?This novel carefully examines the strain this situation puts on both the gang of kidnappers and the household affected by the kidnapping.
finished this one this afternoon. good story. i liked it. ending is quick. that is all. have a great day.
Shortly after the call, it is discovered that it was not Bobby that was kidnapped but Doug's loyal chauffeur of many years Charles Reynolds's son, Jeff who is Bobby's best friend.
Now that it's not his own son on the line, Doug is less inclined to pay the ransom, the timing of which might mess up a big business deal for him.
Much of the books' writing seems a lot like Dragnet episodes, but usually more fleshed out.
It gave me an additional appreciation for McBain's writing.
Although I've been a fan of Ed McBain's 87th Precinct series of police procedural novels for a long time, I've been highly anticipating this one for another reason.
McBain's novel focuses both on the businessman (here called Douglas King) and on the police officers who populate this successful book series.
Both versions hinge on a delicious twist: a rich man is prepared to do anything to get his son safely back from kidnappers.
But will he be as self-sacrificing when he learns the kidnap victim is not his son, but the son of the man's chauffeur?
High and Low, based on the novel by Evan HunterHigh and Low is a film directed by one of the geniuses of cinema, the celebrated filmmaker: Akira Kurosawa. It is not as well known as: Kagemusha, Ran, Stray Dog, Rashomon, Ikiru, Yojimbo or the Seven Samurai.Nevertheless, High and Low was nominated for the Golden Globe for Best Foreign Film in 1964. Furthermore, this work is on The New York Times’ Best 1,000 Movies Ever Made list, which you have here:https://www.listchallenges.com/new-yo...The grea
High and Low, based on the novel by Evan HunterHigh and Low is a film directed by one of the geniuses of cinema, the celebrated filmmaker: Akira Kurosawa.
It is not as well known as:	Kagemusha, Ran, Stray Dog, Rashomon, Ikiru, Yojimbo or the Seven Samurai.Nevertheless, High and Low was nominated for the Golden Globe for Best Foreign Film in 1964.
It is an interesting conundrum - what would you do if it wasn't your child who was kidnapped but you were being asked to pay off the kidnappers with $500k?
I missed the actual detective work that was evident in Killer's Wedge or Lady Killer, and I didn't love that we really didn't spend a lot of time with the 87th at all - half of the book was with Doug King, the shoe salesman, and Kathy and Eddie, two of the kidnappers.
Is that how it used to be spelled?) Kling wasn't in the book at all, and I barely knew who Parker was when he was working with Hawes on the evidence in the driveway.
That got me to thinking how many of the little details in this book would not be written if the author penned the novel today.
I thought the portrayal of the kidnapped boy was a little off center; I don't think any kid would react as he did at the beginning.
That didn't in any way take away from my reading pleasure; it was just something that ran through my mind.I know this review is rather didjointed; for some reason, I had lots of disconnected thoughts as I read.
There's a lot of high fallutin' dramatic dialogue, way overblown.
It reads like the bad dialogue in 1950s movies.
The sort of dialogue that goes, "What happened to you, Charlie?
A no good louse." And Charlie says, "It's business, Becky.
Oh, McBain, what happened to your tight prose and tight dialogue?
How did this one get away from you?I would much rather listen to McBain's dialogue of cops and prostitutes than these tycoons and their silly ways.
I want tough as nail, procedural, business minded cops.There are some good moments in the book.
There's a kidnapping in the 78th Precincts jurisdiction and the crooks want half a million dollars ransom.
A fairly straight forward police procedural that, once again, takes place over a very short time frame.
Late afternoon one day to midday the next.
There are a couple of minor twists along the way but nothing earth shattering.
Steve Carrela is the main detective involved in this one with other members of the squad only getting minor page time.Another solid episode in the series.
That's 10 down out of the 50+ that make up this series.
Luckily these early ones are very short, quick reads.
Just speculation but also based on my memories of a couple of the books that follow.
And the rise in quality here.
He tackles social issues more directly, including a couple of barnstorming monologues from supporting characters, the moral ambiguity with a moral core is very well done and the whole thing seems to up the stakes.The coolest thing about the book of course is that Kurosawa came along and adapted it as the classic 'High And Low', I'd love to know the story behind that, I hope he was a big Mcbain fan!
I saw the Japanese movie High and Low and then read Kings Ransom, on which it was based. The outline of the plot was the same, but the characters are not. Very interesting to see a different twist to the story. Both are somewhat disturbing but in different ways and with different outcomes. The book presents the perpetrators' viewpoint, which is different in the movie. It was fun to compare.
One of his worstI generally love Ed McBain’s books but this one was a wash. Don’t bother reading. It’s just too wordy and therefore boring.
This is my favorite of the series so far. I liked that the focus was less on the detectives and more on the other actors in the drama.
stupid wife; it is rationally wrong to pay his ransom.
3,5
A really good read.
3.5
This one made me wonder who the “bad guy” really was. It was both obvious and not. Clearly, one of the best in the series so far.
