https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15711341-written-in-red
She soon encounters Simon Wolfgard, a snarly, suspicious shapeshifter who takes her under his wing despite his better judgment.What I loved: I liked Meg as a protagonist, and her attempts to fit into her new surroundings were well-written, particularly the subplot involving Simon's panicked, endearing nephew Sam. The secondary character are distinct and memorable, particularly the reticent Tess, who just might be more than she appears.
I also liked that the book didn't fall into predictable PNR/UF patterns of relationship behavior between Meg and Simon, even though there's clearly an attraction.
Hubby: *confused face*And that's when I started to realize that everyone loved Meg for no apparent reason and there was no plot happening.
I think I had realized that Meg was loved beforehand for no reason but I was willing to push it aside because things were going to happen.
Well, for 90% of this book, I can safely say that most of this book is people falling in love with Meg for no apparent reason and her delivering mail.
The wolves do not like this because they see it as being a prisoner, but Vlad and Henry watch over them and Sam even starts going to work with Meg. Now there is this b*tch that keeps coming around and her name is Asia, she tried to get the job Meg has and Simon told her no and so she tries to be friends with Meg. She is evil and up to no good and I'm telling you now that I'm glad at the end when this little war goes down that Asia was taken care of by Tess.
so when she wants a job with the "Others" she has a whole lot to learn about them and other humans.
Well partially, there is no sparkly ass vampires in this world.
No, to the werewolves that you wanna bang: These wolves are the big bad type..not the pissy little boy ones.
Well, I might want to bang them.These creatures don't mind eating you.
Elementals that control the weather and you DO NOT want to piss off and Tess.
(The vamps and wolves are scared of her-that's enough to make me want to be her)Then get this: There is no romance.
4.5 starsWow. Ok, looking at the ratings and reviews, this is very much a love-it-or-hate-it kind of book.
As a fair warning, I would encourage anyone thinking of buying this one to look at some of the other reviews.Some of my friends complained that there was too much extraneous detail about Meg's everyday life, schedule, etc., and that it wore on them quite a bit.
I know, I know, but the details, guys!All. The.
DETAILS.They destroyed me.How do people deal with this?!
So she got the stool from the sorting room and used it to climb over the counter.
She turned the simple lock to the open position and then realized the simple lock was augmented by a heavy-duty dead bolt that required a key - which might not be on the key ring she'd left in the sorting room." 1) MY EYES!2) The POINT?!
I don't need to know every fucking detail and if the character wants to pee and where the bathroom is and - Oh my GOSH.
Interwoven with Meg’s story, the narrative also follows Asia, a human woman scheming to learn more about Samuel and the Others; and Lt. Montgomery, a recently transferred police officer who takes on the role of ambassador for the department with the Others.The creation of a supernatural/mystical creature dominant world is one of the most interesting aspects of Bishop’s world-building.
Plotwise, Bishop is clearly setting up the beginnings of a romance, but not until Meg learns her own dominance.
I devoured the book in one sitting, expected plot, Speshul Snowflakes, anger issues and all.
So, no, I'm not surprised that the quality of this book is so high; but for sure I am astonished by how much I enjoyed, loved and adored it.If you have already read some of my reviews, you must know I never provide a short summary of the plot, not even the slightest description of what the book is about, before writing down my opinions.
It is exactly the kind of plot a first book in a series needs: action is not neglected, but at the same time the readers have time to get acquainted to the world and the characters, totally at their leisure and without a bit of boredom.Moreover, this is one of those plots which are not composed of a single narrative thread -what I like to call 'multiplots'.
Once I was wrapped up in the Otherness of the word with Elemental Avatars walking about, various animal/human other combinations and Meg (we will get to her in a second) I was completely wrapped up and couldn’t set the book down.It all starts with Meg coming to ask Simon for the Liaison job for the Others in the middle of a snow storm.
This is integral to the story and the plot, it doesn’t make cutting seem like an okay thing but I could see why some would be sensitive to this.
For all you romantics out there like me there is a very small hint that eventually there could be a romance between Meg and one of the wolves.
It isn't until after Meg has wound her way into the affections of those who live in the community, that her true nature is exposed.
Then, they must all band together to protect her from the humans who want to get her back under their thumbs.The only very small criticism I have about the book is that Meg is a little too-good-to-be-true.
I would like that!) It's all about the way this woman plants the seeds of change in the Courtyard community with her goodness.
Simply put, she becomes theirs.The secondary characters are plentiful and add so much to the story.
If you ignore all the light fantasy elements, what we've really got is a novel about an awkward girl from a bad home that ran away and took up living with a gruff immigrant community, and specifically with a mean-sounding bookstore owner with a heart of gold.
Yeah, there's that, too.If there hadn't been magic in the novel at all, it might have been a rather heartwarming tale about a kid finding a community to belong to, with other heartwarming elements like befriending the abused puppy, discovering that sorting mail really is interesting as long as you can use REAL PONIES...
I've read three other urban fantasy books with this kind of beginning: Soulless by Gail Carriger, Magic Bites by Ilona Andrews, and Phoenix Rising by Pip Ballantine and Tee Morris.
This wasn't that kind of Urban fantasy novel, but it was still absolutely fantastic.I love the way Anne Bishop re-imagines the relationship between the supernatural beings and the humans, the fact that the humans are the ones who have to deal with the whims and fancies of the supernatural creatures not the other way around.
I love the world building and the characters and the implication for later books.
This urban fantasy is for those who like to read about sorting mail, training wolf puppies, staff meetings and snow.
Evidently, I do, but to a degree.
I don't need to know whose socks got wet in the snow, who is minding the book store or café when the main employee needs to step outside for yet another meeting, and how many steps are there between the front door and the back door of the sorting room or between buildings.
It's too much when repeated 20 times in a book.
All logistics and meetings in this story are super boring.
In fact, if we take the strictest definition, it’s not urban fantasy at all.
Humans (or monkeys, as the terra indigene call them) have access to a few stores and restaurants, but they aren’t allowed to go anywhere near the residential complexes where the Wolfguards, Hawkguards, Crowguards, Sanguinati and other clans live.
The terra indigene are not human.
It’s like this, Meg. We didn’t like that Asia Crane, so we ate her.When dealing with humans, honesty isn’t always the best policy, Vlad thought” Meg Corbin, a blood prophet and the courtyard’s human liaison, is not your typical urban fantasy heroine.
so much love to Meg and Simon and all the rest of these amazing characters!
If you are thinking of dipping your toe into this genre I strongly suggest this series...~ review February 2017~I think I have found myself a new favorite urban fantasy series....The question I ask myself is what took me so long to read this book?
Will definitely be reading the next book in the series very, very, soon!**** as I mentioned above I have read all the books in this series and all my favorite characters remain throughout and were fabulous throughout...
Now. The earth natives have powers that far overwhelm any human's abilities.
A single earth native of the weakest variety can kill many humans.
The most powerful varieties could kill every human on a continent without much effort, and they have no weaknesses at all.
The good ones only kill and hurt some humans.
The bad ones want to kill all the humans.
When the good ones get angry, they only kill or hurt the people who pissed them off, plus a random selection of other humans who had nothing to do with it.
2/7/18 - ON SALE for $2.99:  http://amzn.to/2x5kDPRLately I've been dividing genres into parts, and in keeping with that pattern, there are two types of Urban Fantasy (generally speaking). In the first type, various supernatural creatures live hidden among us, and maintaining that secrecy is paramount to their society. In the second type, various supernatural creatures live openly among us, but are forced to constantly walk the tightrope of human approval. Vampires, Weres, Fae, etc. are either m
In the second type, various supernatural creatures live openly among us, but are forced to constantly walk the tightrope of human approval.
They are threatened with things like formal registration, so that they can be tracked and/or monitored by a fearful government, and they live in a constant state of tension, waiting, waiting, waiting, for the humans to freak out and try to exterminate them.
In Bishop's world, supernatural creatures don't hide.
I think it may have something to do with world peace unification of supernatural creatures and humans, but I'm not sure, and I don't know why that's important.
Solid urban fantasy, unlike what I usually read. Had some really fantastic characters.
And both sides once again are right, it just depends on what you feel like when you embarked on reading this book and are you a fan of Urban Fantasy with supernatural creatures, The Others, openly leaving in the world and humans as the Beta Players.
As such, she has been raised by something like keepers in a compound, which is using the girls with her gift for profit and they are the only humans who can be "owned" for their"safety", since obviously the only thing they are good for is to make money for their owners and have no personal lives whatsoever.
As a cassandra sangue, or blood prophet, Meg Corbyn can see the future when her skin is cut—a gift that feels more like a curse.She escapes her controller and the compound she had been held, daring to find safety at a paranormally- ran town that needs to hire humans but doesn't like them.
“Is that not an appropriate question to ask?”“No!”“Odd. In many novels I’ve read, human males often ask that question when a female is acting…” Puzzlement as he continued to study her face.
First 100 pages were terrible. Can't get into the world, and the world-building confused me. I didn't know whether it was an apocalyptic world, or a modern one in which supernaturals exist, or an alternate reality...I can't get a good sense of the book without the proper knowledge of the world in which the book is set. The characters also didn't hook me, Simon is typical alpha wolf, pretty boring on paper, and Meg so bored me that I can't be fucked to find out what her story is. I just can't seem to get into Anne Bishop's works.
This book charmed my pants off.
It's fine if you didn't spell Cindy with an "i"!)The thing about this book that is so different is how little the supernatural people understand humans and humanity in general.
Try putting *may get eaten* in a job description and you might have a hard sell when it comes to getting employees.Meg is a blood prophet, which means if she bleeds, she sees a prophecy.
right into the others' human liaison job.The best part of this story is the others trying to understand their human, Meg. It is so hilarious and adorable.
When I started it, I was a little hesitant as there's a "brief history of the world" that starts things out and I stopped reading epic fantasy because of all that history and world building details (which is great, but I don't have the time/energy/brain power to keep track of!).
The first couple of chapters are rather thick with world building details - the author renames the days of the week and the continents, but I just ignored it as it wasn't that important to the story and they're close enough (Earthday, Moonsday, etc...).
why on Earth have I read this book only now?
I don't have enough time to write about everything I liked about this book but I do have to mention the amazing palette of characters and a quite refreshing writing style.
Anne Bishops ofetn hits you with a hilarious pun in the middle of a serious situation, but I absolutely loved that.
Meg and Simon are quite a duo and I can't wait to read more about what's coming their way.
Also, I love Tess and Vlad so far.
They seem like very interesting characters and I can't wait to find out more about them.
If one mere sentence could sum up Written in Red by Anne Bishop, it's this:  BEST PARANORMAL BOOK, EVER!!!  Holy. Crap. I'm not kidding. I've grown tired of most of today's so-called Paranormal books, because they mostly use the same overused elements over and over again. It doesn't help the fact that a lot of them portray creatures such as Vampires and Werewolves... in a... not-so menacing way, as they should be. I'm not pointing fingers to what those books are, but most of you get my drift, ye
Okay, so in this book, the world is divided into two factions - the Human Beings and the Others, the latter consisting of beings like Wolves (werewolves) that hunt in packs, a family of powerful Vampires who can easily suck you dry, the different seasons personified, and other Paranormal beings.
Meg is one of them, and she's running away from the people who've used her and held her captive, and she found solace and "protection" in the turf of these Others as their Human Liaison.I think one of the factors that made me really, really like this book was the way the relationships, be it romantic or platonic, were written between the characters.
4.5 StarsAnne Bishop delivers a very cool world that is easy to follow while the assortment of characters were all fabulous. I can't even decide who is my favorite character which is always a plus! It is a long read but very engrossing and never ever boring and totally should hit the big screen. Onto the next book...
5+++ STARS!!!!Anne Bishop, thank you for this masterpiece!
What I loved about the book: I loved how Anne was able to give every side of the story, although sometimes I just wanted her to go on with Meg and Simon's interactions.
Most of all I loved how everybody got a laugh out of Meg's ways and her clumsiness and how Simon nor the other wolves could seem to resist the cookies she provided.In the end I would like to say this is one of the best books I've read this year and to know how the story unravels just might be worth the wait for the next part.
Wow! Just wow! I started this late last night thinking, meh 1 chapter. 160 pages later, I crashed with it clutched to my chest. And then woke up under the weather w/ no energy. Audiobook time! Being sick, I kept falling asleep, relistening to entire sections, which would normally frustrate me! But that is how good this book is! Putting it down was not an option. Simon Wolfgard’s fault! All the ♥’s in the review book!
Wow! Just wow! I started this late last night thinking, meh 1 chapter. 160 pages later, I crashed with it clutched to my chest. And then woke up under the weather w/ no energy. Audiobook time! Being sick, I kept falling asleep, relistening to entire sections, which would normally frustrate me! But that is how good this book is! Putting it down was not an option. Simon Wolfgard’s fault! All the ♥️’s in the review book!
Such an amazing, fairytale-like world, but so much Darker and more captivating.Meg Corbyn is a 24-year old girl who has escaped the compound where she was being held as a 'slave'.
In a world where humans and the Others exist, Meg is considered special.
I loved every single one of the characters, Simon, Tess, Henry, The Elementals, The Sanguinati, little Sam. The are so protective of Meg.
This part had me like:I am so amazed by this book.
YOU ARE ABOUT TO BE AMAZED!
