https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/154409.Bureaucracy
This is just great. A masterpiece for mass consumption. Mises' address to all his fellow men.Despite having been published some 70 years ago, it will probably remain relevant for many years to come (unfortunately).It does not delve into the mechanics of inflation and the business cycle that could turn some people off. It just explains how the market process works, how the bureaucratic process works and what are the implications of neglecting a causal relationship between the economic organization of a society and its general opinion about freedom, hope and true social cooperation.I couldn't recommend this highly enough!
Basically, since money is taken by coercion from the taxa payers, there is no sense of knowing whether the goods and services provided for by the state are in any way efficient or not.
Furthermore, with the absence of the profit motive, the bureaucrat reverts to rigid rules and regulations to guide his/her management.
Bureaucracy has no way to award good management and punish bad management, since there is no market that can bankrupt a company, or reward a company by profits.
The free enterprise system is gutted out by regulations that creates bureaucracy withing the capitalist system, rendering it inefficient and costly.
It is impossible to know how well public administration is performed because the market cannot provide the information.Ludwig von Mises stresses the importance of some bureaucratic structure, yet the failure of bureaucracy is not deficient policy nor corruption, but it is compliance with rigid hierarchical structure implemented by strict instruction, which does prevent arbitrary decision making.Bureaucratic structure curtails competition and innovation where customary and antiquated methods become prescribed as the norm, and no new ideas are considered thereby no progress or reform becomes anew.
3.5 out of 5, but I decided to be nice and round up to 4/5.Firstly, I will say that it was a good treatment on bureaucracy and, more specifically, planned economy vs free markets.
Mises is a good writer and makes persuasive arguments.
Mises equates "capitalism" with "free markets" and "socialism" with "command economy".
While this was probably accepted parlance when this book was written, I would have enjoyed it more if he had commented on systems such as market socialism.
Though it was probably not intentional, parts of this book contain a straw man- that all "socialist" systems are a command economy.
His argument is based on the distinction between bureaucratic management and profit management.
In the latter, the measure of success is profit, pure and simple.
So, in the end, bureaucrats must satisfy the rules and regulations the governments create to hold them in check.Despite the deficiencies of bureaucratic management, von Mises believes it has its place.
There are places where profit management cannot work.
And his characterization of the crux of bureaucratic management rings true.Yet his vision of the way profit management works is much too simple.
All the same, it makes arguments that still echo today.
Whichever side of those arguments you find yourself on, Bureaucracy is well worth reading.
for contemporary society, this book is relevant as hell. People are trying to get everything while doing nothing and do so with government, they think, that government has an unlimited money and cruel capitalists are plundering mere workers. They give a credit to enormous monster, which is bureaucracy and think, that it will solve every problem which they face. What a laziness of people. We must know, that technological advance, which brings welfare to the people, is only possible in capitalist, competitive system.
Highly recommended. For those that don't have the patience to read through Human Action, Bureaucracy is a great way to cut your teeth on sound economic reasoning as it pertains to the pursuit of big government policy. Human Action is still a must read, but I would recommend Bureaucracy to anyone, even those that don't have an interest in economics. Well reasoned, well written - an absolute classic.
This was absolutely superb book! I think that if more people read books like this, world could be much better place! Mises make you think about world. About how is it possible that in 70 years since this book was written absolutely nothing changed in so called liberal governments.
An excellent juxtaposition of bureaucracy within both private enterprise and public services. Mises is on fire here.
It describes some of the absurdities of bureaucracy and bureaucratic management.
Also confronts bureaucratic management with the management by using the price system (free market).
It also describes the source of the bureaucracy.
A person more interested in free-market economics and the ensuing philosophy will not find in it a lot of new information.
But I recommend that book to all enthusiasts of laissez-faire market and capitalism.//polishKsiążka jest przeznaczona dla przeciętnego czytelnika, nie wymaga żadnej specjalistycznej wiedzy.
Opisuje pewne absurdy biurokracji i zarządzania biurokratycznego.
Konfrontuje także zarządzanie biurokratyczne z zarządzaniem za pomocą systemu cen(nieskrępowany wolny rynek).
Opisuje także źródła biurokracji.
An excellent and short treatise on the subject of bureaucracy.
Mises establishes the essential difference between business and bureaucracy as a question of whether success can be measured by profit and loss or whether success is defined as the strict adherence of pre-established rules.
He then shows how the character of bureaucracy inevitably gives rise to those negative features of bureaucratization that most spring to peoples' minds while also showing that the trend toward bureaucratization is inevitable in the absence of a properly functioning system of property rights.
One of the deepest books you can find at fewer than 150 pages.
Great fun and a very well written.
I recommend this to anyone wanting to understand liberty.
Several quotes that I want to share but will only choose one in hopes that others might grab this book and consume it's contents...
"The aim of the popularization of economic studies is not to make every man an economist.
The idea is to equip the citizen for his civic functions in community life.The conflict between capitalism and totalitarianism, on the outcome of which the fate of civilization depends, will not be decided by civil wars and revolutions.
It is a war of ideas.
In Bureaucracy, Ludwig von Mises argues throughout the book that economic and personal freedom has been consistently coerced by the State through the gradual expansion of bureaucratic management. Though citizens feel this coercion through the subtle squeezing of their pockets, it is very rare to find someone who knows the details how it is being done. I think the book will give us such ability to distinguish the voice of freedom from the counterfeit ones.http://freedompeaceprosperity.blogspo...
Mises adds a fresh new perspective for anyone who wants to learn about the mystic question: What is bureaucracy? Trying to make bureaucracy something that it is not and will never be, an effective and efficient system, is a flaw that many of us thought over and over again. Some interesting concepts are shown like the difference between bureaucratic and profit management, why bureaucracy economic calculation is not possible and how it destroys the possibilities of change and growth.
Skvělé! Ostatně jako vždy. Brilantně podané rozdíly v principech fungování tržního vs. byrokratického prostředí a všech důsledků z nich vyplývajících. Popsání intervencionalismu (regulace plodí další regulace, čímž se roztáčí spirála omezování individuálních svobod), jako způsobu postupného dokráčení k totalitě a socialimu, je krásně a srozumitelně podáno i neekonomů.
Fantastic book. If it weren't for all the references to the nazis (as in, they still existed in this pre-WWII world), you would think it was written six months ago. Very clearly outlines the capitalism vs. socialism debate and lays out why bureaucracy itself (though not necessarily the bureaucrats themselves) is to be avoided when possible.
Great work by Von Mises, explaining the differences between bureaucratic and profit management, and the advantages and disadvantages of both with a focus on the bureaucratic forms of government and operations of large industries.
tough read, repetitive on the main topic of management philosophy
Correctly describes how state involvement in business leads to business become increasingly like an unaccountable bureaucracy.
http://conclusionirrelevante.blogspot...
Surprisingly, a really good read. Clear, concise comparison of bureaucracy and socialism.
BUREAUCRACY (Lib Works Ludwig Von Mises PB) by LUDWIG VON MISES (2007)
