https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4986.God_Bless_You_Dr_Kevorkian
He's up in Heaven now.
God Bless you, Dr. Kevorkian began as a series of radio spots narrated by Kurt Vonnegut and then compiled into this short but humorous collection. The idea is that Vonnegut is a radio reporter to the Afterlife and he interviews several people in Heaven. Kevorkian assists him in near death experiences. Like all of Vonnegut’s work, it is funny and thought provoking at the same time.
There is no Hell, and those in Heaven are still much as they were on Earth: Ray, still a Ray-cist whose afterlife is haunted with the notion that his bullet was the catalyst which immortalized MLK's words; Hitler, still a fame-whore desirous of a monument at the UN headquarters in NYC which simply states "I Beg Your Pardon"; Shakespeare, an elusive, pompous dandy who answers all interview questions solely with direct quotes from his numerous plays before finally breaking off the interview with a dismissive "Get thee to a nunnery!" One after another these people speak briefly with Vonnegut, from the first man to ever fly a hot-air balloon over the Alps to the first woman executed for murder in Texas in the 20th Century.
ایدههای کورت ونهگات، واقعن جذاب و خلاقانهان. توی این کتاب، گویندهرادیویی رو داریم که توی هرقسمت برنامهش نیمهجون میشه و میره از شخصیتای مرده مصاحبه تهیه میکنه و توسط دکتر به زندگی برمیگرده. طنز خوبی داره و حرفای درظاهرناجدیدرباطنجدی میزنه. زندگینامه خود ونهگات هم آخر کتاب هست که خوندنش خالی از لطف نیست!
ایده‌های کورت ونه‌گات، واقعن جذاب و خلاقانه‌ان. توی این کتاب، گوینده‌رادیویی رو داریم که توی هرقسمت برنامه‌ش نیمه‌جون می‌شه و می‌ره از شخصیتای مرده مصاحبه تهیه می‌کنه و توسط دکتر به زندگی برمی‌گرده. طنز خوبی داره و حرفای درظاهرناجدی‌درباطن‌جدی می‌زنه. زندگی‌نامه خود ونه‌گات هم آخر کتاب هست که خوندنش خالی از لطف نیست!
This is one Vonnegut book that I could not connect with. There wasn't really anything that linked up and each conversation seemed to not matter to the others. There were parts that amused me but on the whole, it wasn't worth my time, even though it did not take much time to digest.
For me, the whole point of reading literature (what separates itself from any other medium of story-telling) are the things that writing can do in and of itself, hence my proclivity for post-modernism (that puts writing itself as the main focus of its story-telling aim) and prose that is effected poetically in some way, shape or form, Nabokov, Woolf, etc.
I think that if I were more inclined towards the stripped-down Hemingway style, that Vonnegut would be one of my favorite writers of all time, but alas, I'm not and alas he's not.This story in particular is a great read: short, fun and intelligent.
Brevi interviste di un inviato speciale nell'aldilà nei cento metri circa di terreno libero tra la fine del Tunnel Celeste e le Porte del Paradiso...
God Bless you , Dr. Kevorkian  : di che si tratta?E' un esperimento di giornalismo post-mortem :)Brevi interviste a tanti diversi personaggi  (una specie di ibrido tra la Divina Commedia e L'Antologia di Spoon River)Tra i tanti, menzione speciale aun San Pietro molto arguto (e irascibile con gli intrusi - intervistatori )che dice ad un tipo "Se sulla terra lei fosse stato un consumatore di crack, immagino che anche il paradiso sarebbe stata una delusione" (E l'inferno ?
To obtain information from the mind of some of the best known intellectuals to ever live, with the absence of the concept of time?
Vonnegut posits this for a brief analysis through the mind of a reporter that is being assisted by the ever-so-loved Dr. Jack Kevorkian.Witticisms a plenty and sarcasm, as usual, Vonnegut plays the intermediary interlocutor between the long dead (some famous, some banal) and the living.A bit anti-war at times, yet always himself, Vonnegut doesn't touch any new territory with this short work than he already has, but entertains and makes us crack a smile at random thoughts...
About twenty 2-to-3 page vignettes in which a fictional version of Vonnegut himself interviews all manner of deceased people, from the famous to the not so famous, in the tunneled entrance to what amounts to a Christian version of Heaven.
Still, this is Kurt Vonnegut we’re talking here, and I say these words in comparing him only to himself.
Vonnegut nails the subject matter here with the dark levity it deserves, in the way that only he can.
The short pieces were originally presented as 90-second interludes on WNYC, Manhattan's public radio station through the material has been reworked prior to publication.
Vonnegut presents these short pieces as if they were factual accounts of near-death experiences he has voluntarily allowed himself to go through, under the auspices of the titular Dr Kevorkian, in order for the author to interview the recently, and no so recently, deceased.His choices are diverse – Isaac Asimov, John Brown, Adolf Hitler – if not inspired through many were unknown to me.
İlk Kurt Vonnegut okumam ama bunu saymıyorum. Çünkü Vonnegut bu kitabı hümanist yayın yapan bir radyoya gelir sağlamak amacıyla yazdığını söylüyor kitabın başında. Başlangıçta bu bilgiyi görmek üzdü beni. Kitapta bu -para kazanmak için yazılmış olmak- fazlasıyla hissediliyor aslında, hele ki bu bilgiyi bildikten sonra. O yüzden kitap değil de, köşe yazıları okumuş gibi hissediyorum daha çok. Yıldız verseydim iki yıldız verecektim ama iki yıldız çok üzücü göründüğü için yıldız vermemeyi seçiyorum.
okay, i'll buy that, but like i said, the jester's cane has been sharpened and he seems to delight in stabbing all with it and by the time "a man w/o a country" came out, he was a ranting fool.vonnegut was out of his focking mind...hitler/christian?what focking malarkey.
[“This is one of my favorite part of this book: :)] During my controlled near-death experiences, I’ve met Sir Isaac Newton, who died back in 1727, as often as I’ve met Saint Peter. They both hang out at the Heaven end of the blue tunnel of the Afterlife. Saint Peter is there because that’s his job. Sir Isaac is there of his insatiable curiosity about what the blue tunnel is, Low the blue tunnel works.It isn’t enough for Newton that during his eighty-five years on Earth he invented calculus, cod
During my controlled near-death experiences, I’ve met Sir Isaac Newton, who died back in 1727, as often as I’ve met Saint Peter.
“What could have been more obvious?”My job is to interview dead people for WNYC, but the late Sir Isaac Newton interviewed me instead.
I tell him that it’s made of whatever dreams are made of, which leaves him monumentally unsatisfied.Saint Peter quoted Shakespeare to him: There are more things in Heaven and Earth, Horatio, than are dreamt of in your philosophy.
For an extremely short period of time in the late nineties, Kurt was “Reporter on the Afterlife” for the WNYC radio station in, presumably, NYC—hence the station’s name.
(Columbo in the house!) This extremely short book compiles his ninety-second radio spots, where he met such figures as Dr. Mary D.
Ainsworth, Adolf Hitler, Sir Isaac Newton and Isaac Asimov.
Following Timequake, these little pieces were, more or less, what Kurt did towards the end of his life—little paragraphs of philosophical apothegms, autobiographical reflection, and consistently sharp social comment, all written with a cutting wit and humanist bent.
Originally a collection of radio shorts for WNYC, the book chronicles the author's trip down the long blue tunnel to visit the Pearly Gates and interview a cast of souls both famous and ordinary.
To me, it isn't worth the sticker price, but borrow it from the library and you won't be disappointed.Here is an excerpt from the book, Kurt meets Adolf Hitler:Dr. Kevorkian has just unstrapped me from the gurney after yet another controlled near-death experience.
I was lucky enough on this trip to interview none other than the late Adolf Hitler.
I paid my dues along with everybody else,” he said.
نیوتون هست که سعی دارد بفهمد این تونل آبی چیست و چگونه کار می کند و از همه بهتر مری شلی:«گفتم بسیاری از آدم های نادان فکر می کنند که فرانکن اشتاین نام هیولاست و نه نام دانشمند خالق آن.گفت به هر حال آن ها چندان احمق نیستند.
توی داستان من دو تا هیولا وجود دارد، نه یکی، و یکی از آن ها، آن دانشمند، واقعا نامش فرانکن اشتاین است.»سه ستاره چون متن مصاحبه ها شدیدا کوتاه اند.
God Bless You, Dr. Kevorkian, Kurt Vonnegutعنوان: خدا حفظتان کند دکتر کهوارکیان؛ نویسنده: کورت ونه گات؛ مترجم: مصطفی رضیئی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، افراز، 1389، در 96 ص، شابک: 9789642432301؛ موضوع: مصاحبه های خیالی
God Bless You, Dr. Kevorkian, Kurt Vonnegutعنوان: خدا حفظ‌تان کند دکتر که‌وارکیان؛ نویسنده: کورت ونه گات؛ مترجم: مصطفی رضیئی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، افراز، 1389، در 96 ص، شابک: 9789642432301؛ موضوع: مصاحبه های خیالی
They appealed to me as something one might say when appreciating something or some particular moment:"If this isn't nice, what is?"See a good review at:http://www.humanistsofutah.org/2000/a...BELOW IS FROM THE LINK ABOVE:============================"The vignettes take the form of a reporter for a New York public radio station who visits with historical people [he visits with 21 dead people] including: Clarence Darrow, John Brown, Adolf Hitler, Isaac Newton, James Earl Ray, William Shakespeare, Isaac Asimov, Kilgore Trout (who isn't actually dead yet, but then he has lived only in Vonnegut's pages), and others.
Collection of vignettes, wherein V acts as reporter from beyond the grave, interviewing various dead persons. Point of the collection for real is a fundraiser for public radio, and each piece seems as though it could’ve been an on-air sketch.Standard V stuff: witty, lefty, sometimes silly. Faux interviews with John Brown, Clarence Darrow, Eugene Debs, Shakespeare, Hitler, Isaac Newton, James Earl Ray, Mary Shelley, Asimov. Kilgore Trout also gets interviewed.Notes interesting factoids, such as the most successful genocide in history, of which we know, is against the Tasmanians, say.
این نگاه طنازانه و شیرین رو ونه گات دقیقا از کجا آورده بوده؟ یکی از معدود کسایی که باعث می شه وقتی دارم کتابش رو می خونم بلند بلند بخندم. بزرگ ترین مسائل اجتماعی-سیاسی رو هم می تونه خیلی ظریف به سخره بگیره و در عین حال انتقاد خودش رو هم مطرح کنه.مصاحبه با شکسپیر، آیزاک آسیموف، جیمز ارل گری،نیوتون، هیتلر دوست داشتنی ترین بودن.
مجموعه گزارش های وونه گوت در رادیوی WNYC به عنوان گزارشگره . مثل همه ی کارای دیگه ش با همون زبان ساده ، ولی خوندنش هم مث سایر کاراش لطف خودشو داره :-)
Fictionalized, of course, although Vonnegut characteristically blurs the line between fiction and reality, interviewing, in his own name, both Adolf Hitler and Kilgore Trout, i.a. The book is transparently a fictional treatise on Humanism, of which Vonnegut was an ardent adherent.
Anyway, each of the chapters (1-4 pages) is an interview with a dead person conducted at the other side of the blue tunnel between life and the Pearly Gates.
Vonnegut casts a wide net in order to capture the various elements of human experience.
I disagree with humanism completely, but still feel that Vonnegut is on to something, especially when the world seems to be more emotionally hollow and devoid of compassion every year.
I doubt that such a person will be allowed by the medical, legal, and religious people who insist that their interests are more important than my own, even though it will be my life and comfort on the line, not theirs.
That will truly suck!!The part Kevorkian plays is to medically take Vonnegut through "the tunnel" to the edge of death so that he can interview famous dead people in heaven (there is no hell) for public radio, and bring the interviewer back again.
While temporarily in heaven, Vonnegut as he writes in the first person, has conversations with such as Hitler, Shakespeare, and Joe DiMaggio.
Last July 8th, Mr. Biagini, a retired construction worker, age seventy, suffered a fatal heart attack while rescuing his beloved schnauzer, Teddy, from an assault by an unrestrained pit bull named Chele, in Queens.The pit bull, with no previous record of violence against man or beast, jumped a four-foot fence in order to have at Teddy.
Mr. Biagini, an unarmed man with a history of heart trouble, grabbed him, allowing the schnauzer to run away.
I asked this heroic pet lover how it felt to have died for a schnauzer named Teddy.
This is not one of Vonnegut's most well known or acclaimed works, but I definitely think it deserves to be, mainly because this book is so damn funny! It's also extremely short and took me only about a half hour to read in its entirety, and that half hour flew right by because I was having so much fun! This book is Vonnegut at his funniest, most entertaining, and most surprisingly feel good. This book is about death and the afterlife, and it is very hopeful and funny in its approach. It's just a lovely book!
Uuuuuughhhhhh. I am probably one (or maybe there's none) of the few people who didn't really like or get this book! Like it took me decades to finish it, and I actually read to the end because I hate leaving books unfinished. Plus since it's a really short book, I really really wanted to get it out of the way. I have normally loved the few Kurt Vonnegut books I have read thus far but this one just didn't do it for me. :'(
Vonnegut's eccentric whimsy shines through in this book, which is split into short segments documenting an interview in Heaven with a dead person. The brevity was perfect, capturing a thought just simple enough to be potentially profound.
"Hell is other people".
Molto molto carino. Cose piccole che fanno piacere.
In the late nineties, Kurt Vonnegut was “Reporter on the Afterlife” for the WNYC radio station. This short book is a compilation of his radio spots where he interviews deceased people at the pearly gates of heaven. From famous to not so famous people, Kurt asks them weird, sometimes important, questions and gets equally strange answers back. Dr. Kevorkian assists him in his journey to the afterlife and brings him back each time. I liked his interview with Adolf Hitler, Isaac Asimov, and Isaac Newton the most. Neil Gaiman's introduction was very well-written and funny.
