https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/407234.Blood_Brothers
I was an English major so I would only read books considered 'literature'.
Even though I mostly read modern lit or southern lit....it had to be 'literature' and certainly not romance novels...OMG...NO!
Well, I ended up visiting with some friends out of state and had left the book I was reading at home.
Well, my friend was a reader too....of romance and smut.
She loaned me this series and here I am around 6 years later and I've read over 50 of her books and the majority of what I read could be considered smut :) Thank God I forgot my book that trip!
As I've learned the hard way, high expectations can be deadly, so my wariness towards this new trilogy ended up working in its favor as I really enjoyed this first book in the series and I'm definitely going to read the next ones.Caleb Hawkins, Fox O'Dell and Gage Turner shared the same birthday (July 7th, 1977) and had been best friends their whole lives.
Unfortunately, the demon's evil power had grown stronger over the years and, this time around, they had to put a definitive end to this war - or die trying.Blood Brothers was Cal's book, but Fox and Gage played very strong secondary characters in the story.
Originally posted at The Book NymphoQuick SummaryAlmost 21 years ago, Caleb Hawkins and his two best friends hiked into the woods to celebrate their 10th birthday (they share the same day).
As the the 3rd seven-year anniversary approaches, Cal has agreed to work with paranormal researcher Quinn Black to chronicle the town and its strange history.
First impressionsI was prepared for a witch story with the requisite hocus pocus, one reason why I put off reading the series.
The romanceYet another story where I really liked the heroine.
While the romance reaches an apex, the mystery of the strange seven-year phenomena continues on.
Stephen King recently stated in his Entertainment Weekly column that Nora Roberts is cool.
Three ten-year old boys unknowingly do the one thing that releases the evil unto the world and the little town of Hawkin's Hollow.
Since then, every seven years evil comes to the town, and people do very, very bad things to each other.
Now 31, the boys/men come back together to see what can be done.
My only complaint is that I don't want to have to wait for the next two!Nora Roberts is very cool!
There were maybe one or two things that could have been done a little better, but it didn't ruin the book.
It's nice to read a romance that way every so often - one that's not based on pure lust or angst.But one of the things I love most about NR trilogies, this one included, is that all six of the main characters of the series are actively involved in each book in the series.
There were maybe two things that I thought could have been done a little better.
But both of those were just little things because neither kept me from loving the book.
I am a huge fan of small town fiction, and I think Roberts did a great job with creating this small town which seethes with dark secrets, anguish, but also loving families and friends, who are suffering with a difficult legacy and curse.One of the best things about this book was the horror element.
I liked the romance, but I didn't feel any strong bond or connection to Cal and Quinn as a romantic couple.
Overall Thoughts:I liked this book, but I didn't love it.
About anything.I am starting to think they're all aliens in their absolute perfection.Original Review:(English review with some ramblings in Portuguese..)Not my favourite, but it turned out better that i was hoping, considering how it began.Or maybe I've just read one too many Nora Roberts books...The beginning was a little boring, the Portuguese translation didn't help, and I had trouble connecting with the main characters.
( I wouldn't mind though, "seeing/reading", something a little different when it comes to the characters, and the way they approach a relationship...) I may like when NR places a little of paranormal in her stories...but I really mean a little, because I'm afraid that when the author uses too much paranormal elements (by definition the circle trilogy) the story gets filled with clichés...I'll probably read the following books.
Even though I know I haven't read this trilogy before, but because I have read a number of Nora Roberts books it "felt" like I had already read this one.This is the first book in the trilogy and it spent a lot of time setting the scene for all three books.
The other couples/characters are present but not fleshed out and from a couple standpoint they been given their "wait until your book" papers.Although I liked Cal, I really didn't like Quinn which made it hard to like their story.
Characters were kinda dull at the beginning, and I liked Fox (The Hollow, second book from Sign of Seven's hero.) more than Cal, who's only a small part of the book.
Therefore, I look forward to reading the sequel, and hopefully, it’ll have better love scenes than this one had.
I’m not disappointed, but I had expected more from a well-known, best-selling author like Nora Roberts.However, I think one of the reasons why this book didn’t appeal to me as much is that I haven’t been in the mood when I've started it.
So I’ll give her another chance by reading its sequel, The Hollow, really soon.
When they left the woods, every enjury, wound, or illness they had had been cured - for example - Cal wore glasses when he first went into the woods and after the pact and the action of the pagan stone, he could see 20/20.I don't want to spoil the book but things happen through out the town every 7 years for 7 days, evil things happen and people don't realize it or even remember their actions except for the 3 Blood brothers and some members of their family.
It was a really charming opening to her new Sign of Seven Trilogy and left on a great cliff-hanger!I'm normally a fraidy-cat when it comes to suspense but even though this was creepy at times, I never found my heart beating faster.
If however, you like to be a little spooked, you might find this novel a little on the mild side of thrilling.Like a true romance author, the demon-chasing comes second to the romantic relationship of the novel's center.
Well, I'm going to be completely honest and just say that this book was pretty boring.
It dragged on, and she kept repeating the same concept of the story, over and over!
"yes, I get it, now move on with the story!" I know a lot of people like her books, and for me it's a toss up, some I like, and some I don't.
Unfortunatly, this is one I did not.
Once again, she's very repeditive when it comes to the story line, some people like that, but for me, just give it to me once and I'm good.
I don't know why I bother with Nora Roberts anymore, but she is as formulaic and predictable as Roberts and in her guise as J.D. Robb.
It is as if she just changed the setting and the action bits rather than any of the relationship and conversational stuff.It would be even more boring to reiterate how each of her gambits resembles previous books, so I won't bother doing it.
I don't know what compelled me to get this from Amazon.
I've liked most of what I've read of Nora Roberts but I'm not a big fan of plotlines that carry through several books.
I prefer closure at the end of the book I'm reading.
I may continue the series if I can find the books at the library.Basically, the plot is - three 10 year old boys go camping in the woods to celebrate their birthday.
They do something that unleases some kind of evil upon their community of Hawkins Hollow.
Now, 21 year later, they are working together, along with three women, to figure out how to stop this evil once and for all.
I had a review all saved up, and now it's deleted. I will re-write this later.
Read 12/17/07Blood Brothers is the first book in the Sign of Seven Trilogy.
Every seven years an ancient horror thatwas set loose on their ten birthday breaks free and ravages the town.
Sparks fly when intrepid reporter Quinn Black arrives toresearch the story and Caleb's reluctant attraction sets a partnership inmotion that may be Hawkins Hollow's last hope.Likeable characters, an interesting mystery and a nicely drawn portrait ofsmall-town life meld together to make this book the best Nora I've read ina very long time.
Her books have been hit or miss for me for a few years now,so I'm happy to report that this one is definitely a hit.
Being a N.R.'s fan, I'm a bit disappointed by this one. I like the idea of the story and I like the 3 male characters and their relation to their respective families, which feels real and genuine.The character I can't relate to is Quinn. I realize this is a very personal opinion but I don't like the way she speaks, acts, I don't like her attitude, her tone, her bossiness. I usually love strong women in the books I read, but I couldn't see it in this one.

I can see why - the author probably knew that she was writing a trilogy but still wanted each book to be substantial.
I wanted to like her but I just couldn't.
Perhaps my British sensibilities can't take it, but I honestly couldn't understand why Cal fell in love with her!Sure, I'd like to know what happens and apparently the next book in the series is about Fox and Layla, which hopefully means less of Quinn!
If that's the case then I'll definitely read it, but I will do my best not to throw my iPad across the room every time that woman opens her mouth!
This was my first Nora Roberts book, and I picked it up after a friend gave it her highest recommendation.
The most interesting part of this book was when the boys were 10, everything after that was a steady line of boring for me.
Roberts was going for this likeable, pushy, strong character but it was way overdone and after reading a couple of her long dialogues I just wanted her to shut up.
Then they grew up and it seems like Roberts didn’t know how to keep their uniqueness about them.
I thought she was so brass and pushy, that I couldn’t even enjoy watching her find love.
Doubling up on the brain candy for the holiday weekend.12.2.14: This book is terrible.
I can't stop reading it.12.5.14: For the love of God, stop having sex and go fight the demon.12.8.14: Finished this a couple of days ago.
THE WORST.
THE WORST.
It reads like a Lifetime supernatural movie.
I thought I'd be able to slog through the rest of the trilogy, but I don't think I'm going to.
Maybe she had a bad day when she wrote this one (I'm pretty sure it took 20 minutes to crank out).
I stumbled upon this one on amazon so preordered it and it arrived in the mail today and I finished it tonighta quick read and filled with the magical stuff her recent works have been filled with. I am not usually one to love books about demons and gods and netherworlds yet somehow I can quickly devour most anything roberts writes (perhaps it is the romantic in me-mix a little romance into these books and I'm hooked). Escapism for a few hours perhaps. Now, i have to wait until may for the second in the trilogy.

This is not one of my normal genres but I'm so glad I picked up this book!
A very alluring plot with characters that you can't help but fall in love with.
Phenomenons every 7 years for 7 days starting on the 7th of July that all began with 3 best friends having an overnight campout at a myth filled spot called Pagan rock.
Now I can't wait to read the other two books in this trilogy to see what happens with these 3 friends, the 3 woman that drawn to Hawkins Hollow, which isn't just a coincidence, and all the residents of this little town.
Lang geleden dat ik nog een boek van Nora Roberts ter hand genomen heb. Wat schrijft ze toch goed hé... Nog geen 30 pagina's ver of ze had me al helemaal beet. Ze houdt er een goede drive in, met de nodige (wat mij betreft toch) humor, romantiek en gezonde actie en spanning.Ben heel benieuwd hoe dees gaat aflopen. Op naar het volgende deel dus. :-)
Three boys who shared their birthday, Caleb, Fox, and Gage, decided to celebrate their tenth birthday at the Pagan Stone, a strange, altar-like stone in the middle of the woods surrounding Hawkins Hollow, the village where the three grew up.A simple vow to always be friends sealed with their blood, unleashed an entity that‘s been haunting them ever since.Every seven years, for seven days in the seventh month, the small town of Hawkins Hollow descends into madness.
Strange accidents happen; neighbors turn against neighbors, husbands against wives… When the Seven is over, no one remembers anything.Except the three blood brothers.Now, twenty-one years later, the three boys turned men know the time might have come to end it.
First book of the Sign of the Seven TrilogyIn the 1600s in the small town of Hawkins Hollow a band of townspeople, led by a fanatical Puritan leader named Lazarus Twisse, entered a wooded clearing where stood a small cabin.
As their blood drips on the stone altar, something is unleashed.Every seven years, on the 7th day of the 7th month, the inhabitants of Hawkins Hollow endure what a they call "the seven." It is a week where the residents do the unspeakable to themselves and to each other with no memory of what or why afterward.The three boys, Gage, Caleb and Fox realize they are somehow the cause of the events and seek to understand, help and prevent.
A única coisa que já não me surpreende nos seus livros é a capacidade da autora para agarrar os leitores às suas páginas.
Mais uma vez, dei por mim colada a este livro, incapaz de interromper a leitura.Tido como o primeiro volume de uma trilogia, este romance vem apenas apresentar o início de uma batalha contra o Mal. Tudo começa quando três amigos decidem comemorar o seu aniversário com um pacto de amizade.
Desde o início que nos apercebemos dos "pares" delineados pela autora para a trilogia.
Talvez a autora quisesse apenas manter o suspense para o próximo volume da trilogia mas eu acho que poderia tê-lo feito sem deixar os leitores "pendurados".
This is a reread and the following review is older but I am not going to change it. WOW!! I knew that Nora Roberts was good but this book is beyond words! I absolutely loved it! Every single page was perfect! It has exactly what I like in a book of this genre to has: great main characters, amazing plot, very well-written descriptions of the places, the ideal atmosphere, humor and romance! Just the perfect read!This is the story of three men that when they were ten years old, they unleashed, unw
It has exactly what I like in a book of this genre to has: great main characters, amazing plot, very well-written descriptions of the places, the ideal atmosphere, humor and romance!
There are three women that for a mysterious reason feel a connection with this town.Although, the main characters are six: Cal, Fox, Cage, Quinn, Layla and Cybil, this book is more focused in the romance between Cal and Quinn.Cal is a great guy and very down-to-earth.
Although she knows that the situation is far from normal, she thinks clearly and helps their group a lot!I really like all the main characters and I can’t wait to read the next books!!!
I confess that I think I've read only one Nora Roberts book in the past previous to this.
Well, after reading this one, I think I may start!This was pretty exciting and I loved the setting and different character personalities.
The supernatural situation they found themselves in was pretty creepy and though the resolution at the end of this book didn't feel like a permanent one, I'm looking forward to getting into the next book of this trilogy.I like the way the author writes and it is easy to read (listen) to.
Perhaps reading this book would have helped out.Still, I enjoyed the story and am already on the next one!
