https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/365858.Castle_Gay
Like Innocent Smith, Craw has fared far from home and found the gift of new eyes to see the familiar as it really is.
Spotting his castle from a distant hill, he realizes his home had “hitherto been for him a place without environment, like a walled suburban paradise where a city man seeks his repose….Now he was realizing that it was only a little piece of vast and delectable countryside.
But before they can do so they must, like Craw, endure their forty days in the wilderness.
Retired middle-aged Glasgow grocer, Dickson McCunn, first introduced in Huntingtower, returns for a second adventure in Castle Gay.
Instead, two of the group of boys known as the ‘Gorbals Die-Hards’ - Dougal and Jaikie -  now young men making their way in the world, find themselves in the midst of an adventure involving a reclusive press baron and the political machinations of rival factions in the fictional central European country of Evallonia.
Once again Dickson McCunn plays a part in proceedings that demonstrates his calm, sensible and business-like approach to problems and that appeals to his sense of history and romance: ‘At last – at long last  - his dream had come true.
I liked it a lot; the McCunn novels are gentler and less full of danger and intrigue than the Richard Hannay books, and the two of the three I've read so far both start with their heroes embarking on walking holidays, which seemed appropriate.
This was a mainly peril-free caper with some delightful descriptions of walking in south-west Scotland (not too far from where I was myself, just across the Solway Firth), some entertaining commentary on the role of the Press in British society (maybe things haven't actually changed that much in 80 years) and a plot about a timid, isolated rich man being redeemed by contact with nature which was rather reminiscent of a Chalet School book.
Of course, Buchan is usually superb as a descriptive writer, but this novel stands out in this regard over many of his more famous novels. The aptness and precision of his descriptions throughout this book were my favorite part of the reading. The plot is less fantastic than many of his adventure/spy stories, and the protagonist is ("Wee") Jaikie from Huntingtower, now a collegian on holiday who stumbles upon an intrigue.For a Buchan enthusiast, this is another great read. For someone new to Buchan, his Richard Hannay series (beginning with The 39 Steps) is probably a better first choice.
An amusing and readable adventure story from the 1930s. Warning - reflects the values of the time, as seen by a Tory lawyer / politician intent on telling history from the point of view of the sturdy values of the rising British middle classes. Some readers like me will find the depiction of central European politics somewhat distasteful. But you can't beat Buchan for a romp through the heather and hills of Scotland as gentlemanly sporting values and middle class common sense joins with working class patriotism and pluck to beat the dastardly foreign schemers.
[Mine was a different edition - an ancient orange-and-white Penguin paperback.]This was great fun.
A boys' adventure for adults.
(Or for adults who like boys' adventure books.) A nice plot, plenty of action - although NOT violent and with NO shooting, thank goodness.
So it wasn't really scary - it seemed innocent.
This fellow wrote "The Thirty-nine Steps," as well as a lot of other books - and I wouldn't mind finding more of them.
He apparently was a man who did many things, all of them well.
None of which has anything to do with the book, but.
I just love the Dickson McCunn series. Jb must have had great fun writing these, I certainly do reading them
Simply wonderful thriller, once we get past the Jew-hatred...
When first introduced she seemed to my mind to be only about 13 years old, but now that I think of it, Buchan’s young male characters seem about the same anyway.
It seems that university students matured late even in Buchan’s time!Buchan and his sense of duty and propriety are still quite compelling in his books today.
Even apart from the duty than that, when reading buchan i too feel like getting up at dawn and tramping the country in an old flannel suit is the only natural way for humans to behave, and anything else slowly saps energy.
A retired grocer and his two adopted sons -- a quite rugby champ and a tenacious reporter -- try to save a witless and reclusive newspaper magnate from a kidnapping plot. Goofy and brainless, but the writing is clever and the plot zips along. Jaikie, the rugby player, and Dickson, the grocer, are very fun characters.
This is a lighthearted adventure set in south west Scotland. A rugby playing undergraduate thwarts the agents of a foreign power and falls in love. I have been reading many of the author's books lately and I think this is my favourite so far.
This story of inter-war political intrigue, set in the Scottish Highlands was overall a bit of a disappointment. Plus one star for historical quaintness, minus stars for a rambling and generally unengaging story and wooden characterisation.
Would have been 5 star if tbere had been more of Dickson McCunn in it!
Set in the 1930s, this is a classic "yarn" of mistaken identity, displaced monarchs, and dangerous Communists, all centering in Scotland at the castle home of a rich newspaper magnate.
