https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6617928-saving-ceecee-honeycutt
Had it been published and promoted as a book for youngsters, I would have rated it higher and reviewed it more gently.
But it was marketed as an adult book, so I'll rate and review it as such.
The writing, plot, and characters aren't all that bad for light fiction.
Hoffman kills every chance for depth and dramatic tension by tidily dispatching every crisis with perfectly worded homilies delivered at just the right moment by just the right character.
These little sermons are happily accepted by the other characters, who never raise the issue again.
This is a lush story that squeezes your heart, so full of warmth, humor and charismatic characters so real, you just feel like could run over to sit-and-share with them while sipping Iced sweet tea in Tootie's backyard basking in the aroma of Magnolia and Wisteria blossoms.You just can't help but adore Aunt Tootie, Oletta, Miz Goodpepper and Mrs. Odell these generous, spunky, loveable characters that seem to know just what to do to heal CeeCee's tender broken heart and help her bloom simply by being themselves.
I cried real tears at parts of this lovely story of young CeeCee Honeycutt, a little girl who suffers unimaginable loss at the hands of a mentally ill mother and unsympathetic father. But like the spider web-trapped hummingbird rescued in Chapt. 27 by pulling "the stickiest strings free of the bird's delicate wings," a community of concerned women carries out a similar attempt for CeeCee. In both cases, a wounded creature is allowed to enjoy the life it should. I loved this book that climbs from frustrating despair to capturing a real glow in life restored.
who didn't like this book.
Like the wise Oletta who says "Child, child, you've got a whole lot of healin' to do.
Ain't nobody walkin' this green earth got a bigger heart than Miz Tootie".
"I was nestled deep in the feather bed like a baby bird in a nest".
"I noticed an adventuresome earthworm...it lay there sizzled up like a forgotten sausage on a grill." I haven't seen so many bad metaphors since Creative Writing 101.
I expected a lot from this book because of all the rave reviews, but I was really disappointed.
No lights were on, but in the thin haze of dawn that pushed through the frostbitten window, I could see red high-heeled shoes peeking out from beneath the hem of her robe.
Momma just sat and stared out the window with empty eyes, her hands limp in her lap, her coffee cold and untouched.”Cecelia Honeycutt, a young girl with a physically absentee father, at least most of the time, and a mother whose moods swayed from highs to lows, psychotic, until one day when CeeCee is twelve and her mother dies a tragic death.
The book flowed with Southern charm, unforgettable characters, and everyday adventures filled with wisdom and love.Here's an excerpt that I related to:"I loved this time of night, how everything softened and lost the hard edges of day, and how, if the wind moved just right, the live oaks would murmur tender green words across the shadowy lawn.
Sitting with a book in the warm circle of light from the table lamp had become my favorite way to end the day."I also read at night.
I lost a lot of sleep over this book, because I had a difficult time putting it down.
A book very reminiscent of "The secret life of Bees", "Midnight in the garden of Good and Evil" and a book that at times is so predictable it feels like it has copied the dozens of other books that involve southern charm, race relations, mother daughter relations and young women who rise above disadvantage and ultimately triumph.
At times the book would take a turn and I would think "but hasn't this plot line been in so many other books?" Even the names of the characters are so predictable of a southern novel.
And for someone like me, who loves the aura of old houses and splendor of gardens this book just engaged my senses.
She does SURVIVE....This book is full of Southern charm and I coould just see myself sitting with her on the porch and the beautiful gardens of Savannah.Cee Cee meets and is taken care of by some wonderful people that I would love to call my friends.I cried in this book many times and could imagine being a part of Cee Cee's life back in the 1950's.
Think big Pink Convertible with the top down of course.If you loved THE HELP and SECRET LIFE OF BEE'S you must read this wonderful story of love, friendship and beauty.
I wanted to give this book 2 stars, but that felt a little unfair.
There’s nothing wrong with the book per se, but it definitely didn’t live up to my expectations.
The story is about CeeCee, a young girl from Ohio whose mother just died.
CeeCee goes to live with an aunt in Savannah, Georgia where she meets several eccentric Southern ladies.
The story itself was fine, but I didn’t find a lot of substance there.
I also felt like CeeCees ‘voice’ wasn’t that authentic.
I just couldn’t see a lot of her thoughts and words coming from a girl that age.
It's definitely not a book I would normally read, but it was one of my group's BOtM so I gave it a try.
Despite my initial reluctance to try it, once I started reading I couldn't put it down.CeeCee Honeycutt is a little girl who grew up in a house that was anything but normal.
They each had a different story to tell, and a different lesson to teach CeeCee. At the base level this book is about just about a girl who is trying to keep her life from falling apart, but as you dig deeper there are so many different stories that a person can relate to.
★★★★☆ (This is a review of the audiobook.) This was charmingly narrated by Jenna Lamia who convincingly sounds not only like an intelligent, forlorn little 12 year-old girl, but the many moods of CeeCee herself – worry, happiness, embarrassment, guilt, wonder, revenge, fear, grief, sadness, humor, forgiveness, and delight. Ms. Lamia performs the various accents, Northern and Southern, female and male, with distention and authenticity. There are some wonderful, touching scenes in this coming-of-age story and she delivers them nicely.
This book is a remarkable and creative story of a resilient girl who finds herself welcomed into her new home by a number of interesting people.
And I had a lot of issues with the book that stopped me from really enjoying it:The characters were pretty flat and stereotypical.
I don't know - maybe the author really had experiences like CeeCee's, and maybe some people with mama-issues related to this story, but I sure didn't.
I think in a really good book, it almost seems that the author is channeling the story and the characters instead of making them up - that was not the case with Saving CeeCee Honeycutt.For better, Southern folksy charm books with real substance I would recommend Fried Green Tomatoes at the Whistle Stop Cafe, The Secret Life of Bees, The Help, To Kill a Mockingbird, Divine Secrets of the Ya-ya Sisterhood, or Where The Heart Is. This book wasn't an utter waste of time, it was a simple and pretty quick read, but there are plenty of similar, better books out there.
"The afternoon sun sent fireworks of light sparkling off the hood ornament- a miniature silver angel with open wings and her arms stretched out in front of her, palms forward, as if she were ready to push aside anything that dared get in her way."  First off I want that hood ornament! Sadly they don't put them on cars anymore. *sigh* This quote really jumped out at me because it describes the story as a whole. Ceecee will be protected by the brave, fierce, and beautiful women of Savannah, and
Ceecee will be protected by the brave, fierce, and beautiful women of Savannah, and they will fight tooth and nail for this girl, just like the angel.
In a way it proves to be a good fortune for her, but just like any other girl she is devasted.
He does do  one  good thing for her; he decides that Ceecee will go to Savannah with her great-aunt Tootie.
Other than that the story is lovely and makes you smile to see that people could care so much about one girl.
I can see the local AMC marquee now -- "SAVING CEECEE HONEYCUTT" in scrolling big caps -- and, suitably, it's only a matter of time before Warner Brothers, Imagine, Touchstone, or maybe Castle Rock see the possibilities and potential of this hugely adored novel readers have fallen in love with.
Inside the classy and metaphorically graced hummingbird hardback cover of Saving CeeCee Honeycutt are 306 pages of "saving" grace.
With chapters so wonderfully satisfying and emotionally fulfilling, I lost myself, in the best possible way, within this book and found my heart savoring the power of love, beauty of life, and the prominence of God radiating throughout.
What a wonderful, heart warming surprise this book was.
Exceptionally well written.
Probably because it reminded me of my daughter, who hung one of my bras on a moose statue in a park in New Hampshire, took a photo and posted it on Facebook.
I was in New Jersey at the time or I would have smacked her!There's a cast of genuine, lovable, female characters that I enjoyed spending time with and left with reluctance.
I wish the book had been much, much longer.
I wish that I hadn't finished it in one sitting.
This novel should come with a warning label - CAUTION: May cause sudden outbursts of uncontrollable laughter mixed with a few tears. A delightful fun read filled with flawed, eccentric, charming, and delightful characters. Hoffman certainly did a wonderful job portraying southern graces, charm, and nuances at their finest without going stereotypical overboard. And she deals frankly, yet emphatically, with the fallout caused from being raised in the eye of the hurricane with a mentally ill parent before being uprooted and rescued. Absolutely adore this book!
Great hysterical book set in Savannah. The characters were the best part. Another great southern fiction.
After her mothers untimely death, a new chapter in CeCe's life starts when she goes to live with her, Great Aunt Tootie in Savanna, GA.
Aunt Tootie, as it turns out, is the Salt of the earth and lives in grand home that is full of wonderful smells and warm memories.
Over time she, her friends, and her hilarious neighbors, help CeCe to heal and learn how to open her heart to love and friendships.
Oletta, Aunt Tooties' maid, (long time friend), and CeCe, quickly become thick as thieves.
Jenna Lamia does a stellar job with all the different women's voices.
A sweet and tender book that delivers with plenty of southern charm. I loved the simplicity of this story. A full cast of wonderful colourful characters, it depicts the essence of southern hospitality in a heartwarming way. Although at the beginning the story is tinged with sadness it's delivered with a softness that makes you feel all gooey inside.The women who rally around CeeCee when she goes to live with her Great Aunt in Georgia become paramount in changing CeeCee's life for the better with lots of uplifting lessons learnt along the way. A truly wonderful book!
I could almost imagine the beautiful houses, the characters, the town itself.
I could almost feel that glorious sunshine in Georgia.Although this book is not dissimilar to The Secret Life of Bees, I much preferred this one and enjoyed it a whole lot more.
Even though I felt I had read the story before in comparative books, and I wouldn’t normally like sugary sweet, which this book was on all accounts, I still loved it.
If you are looking for a light, emotive and fuzzy read with captivating characters, this book is ideal.
Not fond of this book.
Here's the recipe for this book: Steal liberally from Pollyanna (including the prism scene), Fried Green Tomatoes(all our woes can be solved by talking to a wise Southern woman), and Steel Magnolias (Southern Belles having a slap down in public); Add a pinch of Southern racial anecdotes ala The Help(although the maid never minds making food while everyone else has fun, she's just happy to be a friend, and on her feet all day.);Add the author's own interest in decorating (and being rich);Dump in a bag of sugar..
wait, no, two bags of sugar, and three bundles of gooey pink cotton candy;As you stir this mixture together, bit by bit add unrealistic expectations for traumatized children;Don't bake, that would ruin the sweetness!Garnish with a picture perfect happy ending, more sugar, and a huge sticky sweet pink bow.
This book was better than "The Help".
There it is and yes, you read that correctly, so you don't need to check it again...LOL.
I have to be honest and say this book was a bit reminicent of 'The Help' in some ways...but I'm not willing to share what those things are, you would have to read it.
I currently live in Savannah, GA...which is where most of the book takes place.
I can't say enough about this book...and if I did, I couldn't possibly do the book justice....just read it....I'm not going to say more than that.I will say that I cried several times..this book touches the heart.
I loved everything about this book, the characters especially. I experienced every kind of emotion while reading this, but the smiles outweighed the heartaches. Until I have time to write more, and to avoid spoilers, I'll just say that Ceecee's mother, once loving, sinks into psychosis, and twelve-year-old Ceecee ends out with a distant relative in Savannah. A wide variety of things happen in this book, but none felt forced, just the result of interesting characters. P.S. The audio by Jenna Lamia was wonderful.
A charming southern style read...reminded me of those strong willed women -and of course their Georgian style etiquette -in steel magnolias. An enjoyable read.
That's pretty much how I felt while reading this story: wrapped up in a comfortable world with colorful characters willing to share their secrets with me.
Maybe that's the jaded cynic in me bursting forward, but I felt a little annoyed with CeeCee's naiveté a few times in the story.
Lovers of Southern fiction and coming-of-age tales will fall in love with CeeCee and the friends she makes in Georgia, and those of us with a sweet tooth will savor every recipe and dish Oletta lovingly prepares in Aunt Tootie's kitchen.
As you may know, it's the story of 12 year old Ceecee Honeycutt from Ohio who has been dealing with her mentally ill mother for years.
After her mother's death, a wealthy great aunt takes her to live in Savannah where Ceecee meets lots of her aunt's friends most of them slightly eccentric.Hoffman's characters are either very very good or very very bad.
I didn't even feel much for poor little Ceecee.
Her aunt and her aunt's friends are stereotypes of what people think of wealthy Southerners.
If she did, she'd know her characters are way off base.
Her mother, transplanted to the North, was never able to thrive there and becomes lost in a world of Goodwill prom dresses and irrational behaviors that humiliate CeeCee. Circumstances lead CeeCee to a great-aunt in Savannah, a woman as dedicated to saving CeeCee as she is to saving the beautiful old houses in her town.
What happens to the racist white man who attacks blacks in a world too quick to believe a bad white man over three good black women?I found this to be a tender, delightful story with characters I came to love.
Well, I didn't love Miz Hobbs, but then, who would?
"With a neighbour like mama who needed a TV."“'I find all men to be very much like wearing high-heeled shoes—I love how pretty they make me feel, but by the end of the night I can't wait to get rid of them.'” This book was just full of peaches and cream.
It reminds me of a book I read many years ago, Nora, Nora by Anne Rivers Siddons.
It has the same small town southern feeling and similar kind-hearted strong women characters.
I read in another review—someone compared this book to the movie Steel Magnolias.
I loved character Oletta Jones.
This was my book club's monthly pick, and that was the only reason I finished it.
There's no real continuing plot; the book is more a collection of anecdotes.
Books written that way can be good, but in this book, there are so many that each one seems diluted, quickly glossed over to get to the next scene.
Not that they need to-- their flaws are things like being too nice, too optimistic, too forgiving.
Ugh. Way too syrupy-sweet girl-power for my taste.
By the end of the book, I felt like I was the one who'd been hit by an ice cream truck.
