https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/180584.The_Original_Adventures_of_Hank_the_Cowdog
I know you'll never believe me, but there are some of the most hilarious books for kids out there.
But you have to get them on tape or cd....
the author reads them and does the best voices and makes it even better.
I mean like way way better.
The best is if you have or have ever owned a dog.
Because it's all about this dog who does all the normal dumb dog stuff but takes it incredibly seriously.
It's not just for kids...
I can't really do it justice, but seriously, it's gooooooooooood stuff.
I loved this book when I was a kid. Some relative bought it for me for Christmas one year and it's one of those books that doesn't try to make everything cheerful and fake, but still carries many positive messages for kids and even adult readers.
I've always been a Hank fan and now my students are too! Our elementary book club just finished this one up last week and I'm excited to say that it had the best reaction yet. I was pleasantly surprised at how fascinated they were with Hank; I now have all the other books in the series flying off my shelves. My crew gives Hank two thumbs up!
Bettie's Books
I read all of them which was a huge feat, I think it went up to like a 100?
But truely, its not only that there is more crime out there its more people have changed their attitude.Tom & Jerry is too violent for most moms out there today.
Some may call it violent or he was degrading but I found it humorous and I really enjoyed these books as a kid.
So next time you try to screen your tv/books from your child, ask yourself, didn't you ever watch something with some truth to the world in it?
Now...Hank the Cowdog is supposedly written for children, but it just don't seem that way to me.Course, now, I'm not the sharpest light bulb on the block, but the subtle humor therein seems a little lofty for the average 6 year old.
Course I find some of it above my 60 year old noggin.
But when the chips are down, you just spent your last dime on toilet paper, your wife just put your bedroll in the doghouse, ya ain't seen a rain cloud since the Yorktown armistice, the windmill sounds like a rusty hinge and you can't bust sod with a polaski a little Hank the Cowdog can make the day seem a lot better.
Sometimes, in the past, like those thoughts that keep circling in your head, I'd find myself imitating the voice . "It's me, again, Hank the Cowdog." ... then I'd talk with an imaginary Drover. It must be on audio online. The reader is great. Take the audio option over print. One of those fun kid books I liked to recommend when people came in, asking for audio for road trips.(Quick scan of a youtube cartoon had different reader than the captivating voice of the author. Meh
Having read this book and each one that follows in the series, I consider myself an aficionado of Hank's adventures. Hank is a lovable--if somewhat dim-bulbed-- protagonist who captures the heart of the reader and has you rooting for him as he goes head to head with the Pete the barncat, the turkey buzzards, the resident coyotes, and the bumbling ineptitude of his sidekick, Drover. Maybe I'm biased coming from a rural background, but these books are great!
We had three chapters left (we read one chapter a night) and my son started muttering under his breath, "Booooo.
Booooo." I said, "What's up?" He said, "When will this book be OVER?
It's taking forever!" So we put it down and I ended up finishing it on my own the next night!
I agree, it wasn't that great.
It did feel overly long and Hank wasn't that appealing - kind of a jerk, I thought.
Plus, the whole coyote representation made me feel a bit uncomfortable - they talk like stereotypical Native Americans in old cartoons and movies.

These books are funny, but much of the tongue-in-cheek humor no doubt goes over a 9 year old's head (which seems to be roughly the target audience judging from reading level).
I found the "voice" in the book (including the dead pan humor) to be DEAD ON with an old Texan looking back on his adventures.
It makes for a genuinely funny read, but I'm not sure I'd let my kids live on a steady diet of Hank with no discussion and/or nothing else to read.
Okay, so this book had some genuine laugh-out-loud moments. I thoroughly enjoyed reading it to the kids. Having had a good bit of personal experience with cowdogs, the self-important attitude of Hank, together with his penchant for getting into mischief rang completely true. Oh, and me just a worthless coyote.
Hank the Cowdog head of ranch security. This cowdog is a child and adult favorite. The ways this dog views his "job" and the events that take place is too funny. Hank and Grover have many exciting and entertaining mysteries. This book is fun and makes me (as an adult) laugh. Definitely perfect for chapter read alouds.
So many good ones in this series. Growing up in Texas, this series filled my evenings and school hours with great adventures. Hank and Grover should have a home in any school library.
When I was a kid, I loved the couple of Hank the Cowdog books that I found in the library. But now as an adult, I’m much more troubled by the problematic language. The coyotes are portrayed with the culture of Native Americans, and the descriptions of them are almost all unfavorable. Hank makes fun of their names, their language, their delicacies, and even calls them savages. It just struck a chord with me, and I definitely won’t be recommending it to any students.
My favorite part about this book is when hank and his partner drover fought a cow because drover was on a look out on a building and he said hank hank come here hury. When hank got over the building that drover was sitting Hank said what what Drover said there was a monster over there in the woods. Hank and Drover started scouting the farm and drover started fighting the monster and then hank came behind him and started fighting the monster. When they got done fighting the monster they seen that
My favorite part about this book is when hank and his partner drover fought a cow because drover was on a look out on a building and he said ¨hank hank come here hury¨.
When hank got over the building that drover was sitting Hank said ¨what what¨ Drover said ¨there was a monster over there in the woods.
Hank and Drover started scouting the farm and drover started fighting the monster and then hank came behind him and started fighting the monster.
When they got done fighting the monster they seen that it wasn´t a monster it was a cow.
I laughed more than my 8 year old son did when we read this together. Hank is hilarious! A good read aloud or audiobook choice for a long car ride for all ages.
Hank always has perfectly logical explanations for his predicaments, but the readers, as humans familiar with typical dog behavior, we understand just exactly why his owner calls him “Dangit!” most of the time.For example, when Hank is chasing Pete the cat (and for very good reason) and runs “right in front of this snorty old cow, don’t you see, and the next thing I knew, she was blowing hot air on the back of my neck and shaking her horns at me… I ran for the nearest cover, which happened to be the boss, and you might say that he got plastered.
It felt like it was meant to be read during the time when Bonanza and Gunsmoke were all the rage.
Maybe it's how Hank is so demeaning to his partner.
Maybe it could be how some "big words" Hank uses are spelled phonetically, he acknowledges that he can't spell them correctly and leaves them misspelled in the book (come on, really?
an asterisk and the correct spelling at the bottom of the page would have at least been a little better).I am in no way compelled to read the subsequent books in the series and honestly, I have a lot of difficulty imagining a situation existing in 21st century America where I would actually recommend this book or series.
I got so tired of Hank's name-calling (a mother coyote was a "hag" when she screamed at him for - wait for it - hitting her pup) and bad-mouthing every other animal.
The height of humor in this book (and really, my 3 and 7 year olds were laughing uproariously) came when Hank and Drover (who is stupid, scared, and worthless, according to his friend Hank) tormented a chained-up boxer, then peed on the tires of the boxer's owner's car, just to harass him further.
Honestly, Hank's a bully.I would have let the book go - unreviewed and forgotten - until we reached the section with the coyotes.
Apparently, Hank is a modern "cowboys and Indians" book, and the coyotes are Hollywood-throwback stereotypes.
My son loved it and it is a good book for reluctant readers.
The reason it is hard to rate is because, even though it is basically a cute book, there were a couple things I did not like.
This is mainly because the coyotes speak like this: "Me eat meat.
Meat good." The coyote dialect was a big mistake in this book.
Other animals don't speak with a dialect....just the coyotes.
It has a bit of animal violence, like the part where a chicken is murdered and then Hank eats the chicken.
We'd read several other Hank books, from later in the series, and enjoyed them a lot.
This book seemed more gross and less sympathetic than what we'd read before.
Hank is always a little clueless, and mildly cruel to Drover, but in this book he's outright mean and nasty to just about everyone around him.But the worst part of this book was the cultural stereotyping, with coyotes standing in for the Native Americans of old Western films.
I know it's a kids' story, and I know Erickson is poking fun at those Western tropes, not supporting them, but it was kind of uncomfortable to read aloud to my kids.
This review is for the series.
The very LONG LONG LONG series, at that.
But the great thing these books is that you don't have to read the whole series to actually understand one if you pick it up.
I like these, especially just for humor and light-heartedness.
And if you do read one or two of the books, they're probably easy reading for you (especially if you're my friend!) but nice for relaxation and enjoyment, kinda like a light TV sitcom or something.
See for yourself, and you can read a few of the books in the series.
In January my BF and I checked out a couple of our favorite children's books on a date at the library.
I checked out The Goose Girl and my BF checked out Hank the Cowdog.
He LOVED these books as a kid and thinks he may have actually read the whole series (there's about 30 some of them).I wasn't quite as enraptured by this book as he was.
Hank is a character that lots of kids could identify with.
I would recommend that parents read these books with their children to correct some of the poor influences Hank could give.
This review is for the entire Hank the Cowdog series.
These books were my childhood!
Wonderful and lovable characters who have such unique personalities with a (so far) endless supply of entertaining plots.
Ranging from utterly comedic (humor in EVERY book, while sometimes it's the main theme) to frustratingly touching (Oooh, right in the feels!!).
Minus one star simply for all the thankless torment my dear Hank has had to go through (which I suffered vicariously).
Honestly a terrific book series for all ages - and I don't always say that!
Read the books, but also try the books-on-tape!
I think this is one of those series that was funnier when I was a kid. I thought I'd go through the audiobooks just for fun and posterity, and I realized a few things I almost wish I didn't...This book is full of awful western stereotypes, and Hank is kind of an asshole...Plus, "I'm just a worthless coyote" ? Really? ... awful.I like the sound effects and music present in the audiobooks though. It really made it kind of fun to listen to. I would recommend the audiobooks before the actual books though.
Fun read aloud book.
However, this book was more violent than I remembered - especially for an entry into Hank the Cowdog books.
Still Jonah wanted me to keep reading and wasn't too scared, although he says he doesn't like the coyotes fighting.Reread with Clara: This book is so much fun as an audio book - it has humor for kid and adult listeners.
I particularly love the introduction to Wallace and Junior.
Clara was scared of the coyote fighting even at age 5, even though we reassured her that Hank will live to go through at least 40 more books of adventures!

8 blueHank the cow dog was a good book to read.
Hank the cow dog by John R.
Erickson was awesome.
I say this because of hank he choose his buddy or co-cow dog Drover over the pack of coyotes and also the ranch.
I love the part when hank talks like the coyotes like he says "My name hank".
I love this book even if its about hundred pages long its good.
I won't spoil it for you those are basic tip but the real adventure is in the book.
Have fun reading Hank the Cow dog by John R.
Erickson.
I loved this book. I know it is for younger folks but I had not read any of this series. Even with the simple stories it greatly entertains me. I plan to read the set. I was volunteering at the local library and found they do have the entire set now. I really enjoy seeing the world through this dog's eyes.
