https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10908.Harvesting_the_Heart
I didn't care for the main character--a young woman whose mother left her at five, had an abortion at 18, had a kid and didn't think she would be a good mother b/c she didn't have one and aborted her first baby.I didn't relate to the marital problems.
I couldn't understand why the two characters ever got married in the first place-they were from very different backgrounds.I didn't like listening to it, and I think that if I had been actually reading it I would have liked it even less b/c it was so slow.
If there had been a dust jacket I imagine it would’ve went something like this: (at least if I had written it)Paige O’ Toole-a wannabe artist, dealing with abandonment issues from her mother leaving her at a young age, abandons her father by running away in the middle of the night, then abandons her husband & child several years later, then finds her abandoned mom & abandons her because her mom isn’t sensitive enough to Paige’s whining about how hard she had it, only to return to her husband & child expecting them to be forgiving, supportive, & happy to see her, because she’s a victim of abandonment.Ummmm…yeah!
Harvesting the Heart isn’t like her other novels, the writing is good, however, it’s just an annoying book.
I'm a huge fan of character development, but it seemed like she was trying to convince herself as well as the reader of the character's motivations by repetition.Spoiler alert - Basically it boils down to rich boy meets eccentric girl with a past.
Boy unknowingly trys to change the very things he fell in love with.
Girl becomes trapped and overwhelmed with the direction of her life and her responsibilities as a new mother.
Girl realizes that she really had what she wanted all along.
Boy is stubborn and doesn't want to take girl back.
A life event brings boy and girl back together.
He held me the way a child holds a snowflake, lightly, as if he knew in the back of his mind I might disappear in the blink of an eye.
I had never met anyone like him, and, amazed that it was ME he had chosen, I made up my mind: I would be whatever he wanted; I would follow him to the ends of the earth.""Thinking that in my house - OUR house - furniture would be soft, with curved edges, colored bright to remind you you were alive, and everything, EVERYTHING, would be replaceable.""Suddenly I realize that this is what I've been waiting for - a man who depends entirely on me...
It is about a girl whose mother walks out on her and her father when she is a little girl.
Her hopes as a young girl were that her mother would come back for her.
During their early marriage they both have shoved their families out of their lives and they are attempting to make it on their own.
She walks out on her son and husband to go and find the mother that abandoned her.
I think the reason it was so hard for me to read is because of my feelings surrounding my own mother and our "relationship".
3.5*First and foremost, I am not a mother and I believe being a parent is probably one of the most difficult but rewarding roles in life.
This is a story that demonstrates how difficult the role can be to some parents not just mothers, whereas it comes naturally to others.
I believe both main characters had aspects that readers will find selfish and frustratingly stubborn.
It just leaves the readers unable to be sympathetic to them.
Instead you will get grasped into the story and feel an irritation with the main characters.
I wanted children, lots of them.
There were times I wished the children would just go away but I never thought of leaving.
Some people never have children because they can't find it in their hearts to share and give of themselves.
Some walk away from their children.
A bad mother?
A book is a story of events unfolding allowing the reader to form her opinion.
I can't imagine a guy reading this book.
The movie "The Good Mother" made me feel the same way this book did.
I just wanted a story about people and their life experiences.
This book was alright. Both main characters were annoying as all hell, just complaining about how their spouse wouldn't be more caring to them and pay attention. They pretty much ignored each other the first half of the book, and then BAM! Paige leaves and then their marriage falls apart. But in the end they still love each other. Um, happy ending? Yes. Would happen in real life? Hells no. See, LaPierre, happy books aren't real.
As much as I like jodi Picoult books, this definitely wasn't one of my favorites.
The main character, Paige, is annoyingly hung up on this (I guess I might be too but come on, this is fiction!) and eventually leaves her infant son and husband to find her mother.
Much of the book is filled with Paige's annoying stories of growing up without a mother or Nicholas' (her husband) stories of his privileged life.
After Paige returns, Nicholas thinks of divorcing her and is set upon that path when their son becomes ill.
In short, this is a story about a woman (Paige) who was abandoned by her mother at the age of 5.
Her new home becomes Boston and in just a few short days of living there, Paige meets Nicholas, an up and coming cardiothorasic surgeon.
The story goes on, Paige finds her mother, lives with her for several months and then decides she ought to go back to her life in Boston.
The ending is very ambiguous and we are left to never know if Paige and Nicholas reconcile or not.
This book was really bad.
This novel (with its theme of ambiguous motherhood) was a complete disappointment.Perhaps the worst aspect is character development (or lack thereof).
The young mother is not sympathetic.
Her mother (the original self-destructee) is even worse.
The reconciliation between mother and daughter was sentimental and contrived.
The young, uneducated wife stalking the Harvard educated physician through a hospital was just plain weird.Ambiguous motherhood and the theme of abandonment can be a worthwhile subject if handled correctly (check out Anne Tyler’s ‘Ladder of Years’ which is outstanding, for example).
But this book doesn’t even come close.
Sweet Jesus, this was the worst Picoult book I've ever read. Boring plot full of holes I could drive a truck through, and self-absorbed, completely unlikable characters, with the exception of Paige's father, who deserved better than the hand he was dealt. Hell, he deserved better than being in this book. I'm as big a Picoult fan as anyone, but I was sorely disappointed in this one. Looks like the library is getting an extra donation this weekend. Hopefully the next person likes it better than I did, but if not, don't shoot the messenger.
So I need to announce that I am seriously disappointed ...nay, DISGUSTED with the sloppy research in Jodi's 1995 Harvesting the Heart, the love story of a poor girl from Chicago whose father is a crackpot Irish inventor and whose mother abandoned the family when the daughter was 5 years old.
BUT there is also an uber expensive open hunter named Donegal who colics at one point while runaway mom cuddles next to him as the horse thrashes in agony, and, subsequently, found-again mom allows her beginning rider daughter to gallop priceless Donegal through a grassy meadow full of gopher holes and unmown thigh-high grass - nope, sorry, this will NOT work for me.
After starting on the high note of My Sister's Keeper and working my way through a totally formulaic series always with a twist at the end, I didn't hold out much hope for this book but it was the only one I had for a long night in a hotel in a foreign land.It was quite different in that it was distinctly overwritten, and in parts quite beautifully-written too.
Usually I think of Picoult as a storyteller whose characters are somewhat sketchy ciphers that appear with different accoutrements in book after book, but the two main characters in this book were completely individual, perhaps especially the woman.
Os dois casam-se muito precocemente e com uma gravidez inesperada, Paige encontra-se mais perdida que nunca, sentindo-se uma inútil com o seu pequeno Max, embora aos olhos de todos ela é uma boa mãe.
Mas as dúvidas sobre o porquê de ter sido abandonada pela mãe atormentam-na e acaba por repetir a mesma façanha: deixa Max aos cuidados de Nicholas e parte em busca de um paradeiro da mãe.
Na verdade não temos muito disso aqui, ou melhor temos alguns indícios mas a autora nunca acaba por explorar a fundo algumas questões.(...)Está claro aqui que Jodi Picoult ainda não tinha a mestria que agora tem mas também não é um livro assim tão mau.
no.
This is combined with attitudes of those who have been brought up to think they are superior and how they behave in a marriage.I did like the characters in that at times I could cheerfully have slapped them whereas at others I felt sympathetic so in that way they were quite real.I found it really hard to believe that a mother could walk out on her family and nEVER contact them again and yet profess to love them.
First off, before starting the book, I noticed it was on a list of books not to read while pregnant and thought, interesting fact.
I started reading the book and a few weeks later found out I was pregnant (surprise!).
I found the story-line to be deep and thought provoking while still carrying the easy-to-read plot line.
Unlike many of Picoult's later books, I did not have any character I truly did not like.
I knew going into it that this would probably be more story-like and less dramatic plot-twists.
The characters were so dull and predictable--the pretentious, unemotional and rich doctor, the confused, artsy, vulnerable little girl...all her characters in her other novels are so unique..strong..someone you don't see every day and you want to meet.
I've seen and read about the characters she wrote about this time.
In addition, the plot was predictable.
I pushed through the whole book expecting the crazy plot twists she is so famous for.
It went as expected.
Okay I get it she was having an anxiety attack...but you simply don't forget what you did the next 5 hours after that.Don't read.
If you are a fan of Jodi Picoult, do not read this book.
The symbolism is so heavy-handed that I actually groaned more than once reading it, and all of the characters (with the possible exception of Our Heroine's father) are one-dimensional and shallow.This is one I'll be glad to put in my Little Free Library, though there's a part of me that thinks I should throw it away so it doesn't ruin Jodi Picoult for some unsuspecting reader who is a newcomer to her work.
I like this Author.
I am one of those who must have read majority of her works.
And so I can safely say this is not what we love Jodi Picoult for.This is one of her books which I feel goes in diameterically opposite direction than what it was meant to be.
More of a love story than about motherhood.
If you have read some of her recent work like Small Great Things you can easily find how much our author has evolved over time.Won't recommand it if this is your initial Jodi Picoult reading.
Started out great, then dragged on and on and didn't come back to life for me until the last two chapters.The story is about a young girl, Paige who at a young age decides to leave home without a word to anyone and starts to drive east.
She is haunted by her past and the secrets she has left behind.
Her own mother had left her and disappeared when she was very young.
Now Paige finds herself in a similar predicament and decides to leave her baby, husband and everything behind again.
To find herself, find her mother and her own place in life.3.5 stars.
For me, taking a break from reading is a happy place on its own. You know you’ll come back to it. You know you’ll love it just as much. You know you will love it always. There will be books until the end of time. It’s not the kind of happiness that makes you bounce with joy – it’s more of a quiet truth that makes you smile.
I read this book when my son was small (so almost a decade ago). I remember being the same age as the main character, who was early 20's. I could relate a lot to her having trouble being pretty young and trying to figure out the whole motherhood thing.
The conflicting feelings and repressed emotions build until Paige begins to distance herself from Nicholas, their unborn child, and their marriage.
Paige suddenly begins to realize- when Nicholas, her husband, the cardiac care head, spends more and more time away while she struggles with the first "trappings" of new motherhood.
Paige tries to tell Nicholas, and reach out to get help, but he's obsessed with his career and doesn't think it's something that will continue onward(syndrome of many new fathers who don't realize the depth of their wives' postpartum woes)and it will just "go away".
Eh. Started out promising, but the same old schmaltz about a man and a woman from opposite sides of the tracks and there's nothing special about her except that she's a girl-woman and she happens to be an amazing artist and she ends up ~changing him, except she has a troubled past due to her mother walking out and then her abortion and blah blah blah, oh and then she marries this guy after like two weeks and has a kid with him and then runs out on them both for a while and finds her mom.
Idk. I just didn't like this that much.
This is a book I won't forget for a long time.
I have to say, I've recently had a fascination with mothers and pregnancy.
I mean, what is it like having a baby?
It seems like a miracle to me."Harvesting the Heart" (Easily the most cheesy title I can imagine) was frank and colorful.
Paige is one of the strangest characters I have ever read about.
One minute, she's as wise as a ninety year old woman.
The next, she's child-like and naive.
But Paige?
I found that a little surprising, but then again, I'm no expert.All in all, this was an intriguing read.
This book irritated the heck out of me. A mother runs away from her child because she doesn't think she'll be a good mother. What the heck? Well, to start with don't run away from your kid. The main character annoyed me with how much she felt sorry for herself. Why would you miss your child's most important first year? She knew how it felt because her own mother did it to her, so she just does it to her own kid? Lame. And the husband was a self righteous prick too. Don't waste your time with this one.
I love Jodi picoult but this was hard to get through...I thought characters seemed endearing at first but eventually I stopped liking them altogether and didn't care what happened to them...was really hard to get through the last 1/3 but I had already invested the time so I had to finish based on principle
I usually love reading Jodi Picoult's books. Harvesting the Heart was her second book. The characters were ok but I did not like either one. Rich boy, poor girl, doctor vs young uneducated girl. Summer read at best.
