https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40874325-the-shack
I was full of questions, and life stunk, and then I read the book, and God made sense to me, I understood quantum physics effortlessly, and all of a sudden I could spin flax into gold!"So, what I'm about to say is going to make a lot of people pretty angry.The Shack appears to me to be an ex-hippie's best attempt at amalgamating God, Dr. Phil, and Oprah.
If it makes a lot of people think hard thoughts about God that they'd rather avoid, then I suppose that's fine.
There is nothing good about this book that the Lord can't teach you without it.I'd like to write a more thorough review when I have time.
Because it preaches (yes, preaches) a different gospel and does not line up with the Word of God. A close family member of mine was one of the first people to read this book.
Amazon only had two negative reviews of this book at the time (I read it before it really took off) so I figured I'd put this out there for my close friends.
Pure drivel.
This book read like a Betty Crocker recipe gone bad: take one all-American Jesus lovin’/fearing family, add one unexplainable tragedy, mix with equal parts anger , guilt and sadness , bake for three weeks and get a bitter man who has turned his back on God. Alias, no need to give up, because God writes our hero a personalized note, and tells him to meet him in “the shack” (the place of his daughter’s murder), funny thing is, god is a black woman cooking pancakes in the kitchen who says “you can me god, Yahweh or just plain ol’ Jessie, I answer to all three”.
I was recommended this book by several people who found it both moving and fresh. So Mr. Young certainly has an audience for this glib encounter between Mack, the “everyman,” and God. I, however, must not be the intended audience. Despite the fact millions of copies have been sold and the book has climbed its way to the top of the New York Times Bestsellers List, I found The Shack to be preachy and fake to the point of insincerity. The main characters are so flat and one-dimensional that one ca
Mr. Young attempts to grab the reader by making God the Father appear to Mack as a woman.
His caricature of God- for that’s what it is- seems to only use proper grammar about 90% of the time (Is this what you think black people sound like, Mr. Young?) and his depictions of Jesus and the Holy Spirit fall flat.
And that brings me to “The Missy Project.” At the end of the book, right after the acknowledgements, the author tells us about this special project, and I think to myself, “Finally, after 250 pages, here’s something I can believe in.
Yes, that’s right, Mr. Young lists ways you can help him get more copies of his book into circulation.
If I may prove my case, do you think that humans were designed to live in the present or the past or the future?”The main character responses with the present.Jesus says “So tell me, where do you spend most of your time in your mind, in your imagination?” The main character replies “I suppose I would have to say that I spend very little time in the present.
You try and play God, imagining the evil that you fear becoming reality, and then you try and make plans and contingencies to avoid what you fear.You do this because you don’t believe.
My updated comments on the book and movie are here; https://www.goodreads.com/author_blog...I was given this book as a gift many years ago and read the first few chapters.
I don't think it is ever okay for a Christian author to use profanity in any circumstances.
Christians are called to do neither of these things....lose the profanity...it won't cost you any sales!When members of the Trinity begin appearing in person to the main character as black women I threw the book away...I'm not going to say anymore.
I just find it shocking that so many Christians have read and recommend this book...where is the discernment??
However, in the end it was in the "good but not great" category for me.'The Shack' tells the story of Mackenzie, aka "Mack", whose youngest daughter was abducted and murdered.
He has lost faith and turns his back on God.When Mack receives a note in his mailbox from God, luring him back to the cabin where his daughter was murdered, he doesn't know what to think.
It was about as rosy as it could get for a book that centered on the murder of a child.Personally, I didn't feel any great sense of peace or satisfaction while reading this story.
I especially rolled my eyes over the dialog the adults had over a campfire--"So tell me, Mackenzie, what is she like." I just thought the conversations were not at all what real people who have just met are like.
The following section contains what might be some spoilers for some people, but I wanted to mention them (being a little vague) as parts of the book that I particularly appreciated.When Mac is telling his guests about his family and stops saying, "Now here I am telling you about my kids and my friends and about Nan, but you already know everything that i am telling you, don't you?
Note: After several friends challenged me to read the book again (I assume they wanted me to upgrade The Shack to five stars), I indeed read it a second time.
Unfortunately, every one of these would have been pointed out by first or second year writing students, which simply reiterates my main point below: Shame on you Wayne Jacobsen for ruining a good book by not bothering enough to edit this properly.
It is like the author himself really just wanted to get to this point in the story and realized the book wouldn't make sense and would be too short without the introductory part.
silly me.7/31 - God, I am glad that's over.So, I thought long and hard about giving this book 2 stars.
author states heaven is NOT gold/pearl streets.
author states forgiveness is good for you.
not forgiving will destroy you.
"Jesus" states he's not big on religion, or politics or economics.
Calls them a "man- created trinity of terrors that ravage the earth..."WORD.Why I took that 2 star rating and dropped it to one:1.
God appears in the book as a big black woman named Papa.
Jesus appears as an unattractive Jew with, get this: a big nose.3.
Holy spirit - little Asian woman.4.
As of late people, in the Christian circle, have been discussing whether or not it is 'right' to read a book...
There are even non-christians reading it and asking questions...
I just might not understand the context.Some reviews by Christians, of whom their opinion is valued, have even gone so far as to call the act of putting the Holy Spirit and God the Father in human form - sinful.
Let people read what they want to and help them to discern the truth from it.
I did NOT like this book. I kept hearing how good it was and got it from the library with no idea what it was about. The idea of a guy who loses faith in god because his child is abducted and then gets invited back to "the shack" where his daughter was found...this time to spend a weekend with god...is not my idea of appealing literature.
I had not read this book prior to writing mine, but I was very surprised to find that the premise of our books (a man struggling to heal his relationship with God) was identical.
(Young chooses not to address the issue of homosexuality and the church.)I would strongly recommend this book to anyone.There is a tremendous amount of the author’s philosophy delivered in this book that I will react to through the remainder of this review.Characterization of GodYoung creates a character who is angry at God over the death of his daughter.
This review has been removed for personal reasons.All of you who liked, commented, and otherwise made it clear that you "felt me" on my response to The Shack are very much appreciated.
One of the worst books I've ever read in my life. Don't like my opinion? #haveablessedday
Having had no understanding of this books content before opening it, I must admit it rocked my little world a bit.
I don’t want to say too much as I think this book is meant to be experienced with as little influence as possible.
It helped me grasp something that I struggle with and ultimately confirmed some of my own thoughts about things.
I am being cryptic I know—but I don’t want to spoil it for the reader.
A very thought provoking book that has left me wanting to buy a copy for everyone.
Way back when, when this book first came out, friends and random people upon finding out I was a reader would look at me....their eyes would get a little wider as they suggested 'You should read The Shack!' Then they would creepily stare at me for a little too long.
That is a miserable failure.I can suspend disbelief in books about zombies, vampires, genius eleven year old girls, chimera, reasonable Republicans (okay, that one was difficult) but I couldn't do it with this book, or other books like it, because these books have a agenda to make you believe in the stuff they are writing about and that makes my stomach turn.
The Shack is a book you will thank yourself for reading.
So I read the book as a God-Lover and I write this review in the same vein.
The devastation is too great; the chasm created by his loss is so unfathomable, his faith in a loving God is shattered.Mack receives a strange and seemingly preposterous invitation to meet God at the very site – the shack – the scene where the unspeakable crime against his loved one occurred.
The rest of the story is about Mack’s meeting with God which is unlike any other fictional description I have ever read of a Divine encounter.
In case you can't read it, the tagline on this is "Where tragedy confronts eternity."This is the story of Mack, a man whose 6-year-old daughter was abducted and brutally murdered during a family camping trip.
One can only hope that future printings of this will see these minor errors accounted for and fixed...And now here is the hope: when my best friend from high school first gave me a copy of this book and begged me to read it, I groaned inwardly.
It was run cross-grain, making it very difficult to open (a very cheap way to print).
If you read one book in your life, read this one.
I shall not delve into the story; let's just say this author thinks like I do.
I really can't go into this too much; you just have to read it for yourself to understand how I feel about religion, "church", and the Trinity.
We humans are so busy trying to control each other and control ourselves, that we miss the true message.
It's so simple, I'm sure many will miss it.
God's watching, waiting, and smiling.
Pick up a copy, read it, and open your heart to the true message of God...
Jedna od većih misterija za mene... Kako je ta knjiga postala bestseler kada sam naišla samo na jednu osobu kojoj se dopala a većina onih koji su se zeznuli i kupili knjigu, nisu uspeli da nadju nijednu lepu reč... Lično, mislim da je ova knjiga namenjena američkom mentalitetu...
1.5 rating! I read this years ago -during the hype. People were raving about it. It was a number 1 best selling book. Yet, its a 'least' favorite for me. (the book with the manipulated ending)!Its funny how we come across an old book we have read. (positive or negative). We meet a new member on Goodreads --and before you know it, memories return while reading their reviews. Why people were so turned on about this book --I'll never understand.
I had to read this for book club and I did not like it.
What Bible is the author reading?
Is that really the reason for Christ's death on the cross?It's also pretty obvious the author has trouble with authority of any kind, but most especially Church authority.
It is not worth the time or $$ to read.
Instead get Athanasius' On the Incarnation or St. Irenaeus' Against Heresies or any other Church Father and dig deep into the well of Christian writings that have stood the test of time.If there had been a 1/2 star option I would have given it that.
I'd get rid of the thing but she signed it and my conscience would bother me, and so it sits here mocking me, probably for forever.I thought I couldn't finish it because the writing is bad, but I read the Twilight series (the entire series, not just the first one) and even though I cringed at most of the writing, I still read them like a guilty pleasure.
Not at all.Then I thought that maybe it was because of the religious aspect to the book, but I've read and enjoyed books that are religiously allegorical (The Chronicles of Narnia series, arguably the Lord of the Rings series).
Es difícil evaluar un libro como este que, siendo ficción, toca temas religiosos. En primer lugar, he de decir que soy católica y que creo en Dios, así que mi opinión puede estar intoxicada por mis propias creencias. Sin embargo, me esperaba algo diferente... ¿Algo cómo qué? Ni idea. Por eso creo que lo mejor es que cada uno se forme su propia opinión.
A book that seems to inspire strong emotions - people seem to either love it or hate it.I am a little surprised to see so many people who did not like the book. One reviewer maybe explained the wide disparity in the need to seperate the work of fiction itself with theology. Perhaps many people are put off by the imaginitive take on Biblical ideals. As a work of fiction, I found it original and thought provoking. Theologically, it was ungrounded, yet working as an abstract parable, it illustrates God's uncompromising ability to love.
If you like your spirituality like a boxed dinner (just add meat!) then this book is for you.
The Holy Spirit, an Asian chick named Sarayu (The Cheshire Cat in disguise, fresh from the Betty Ford clinic)These forms alternately challenge and minister to the main character.
The voice telling the story is not the main character and may very likely sound like 1.
a clueless intruder who claims to be a friend of the curious masochistThe beginning of the book is blah, the middle drags (Oh yes, Jesus!
How it drags!), and the end question and answer part does little to help the genre of spiritual fiction.
But it does more than "make sense," and it isn't the dry philosophical treatment that "the problem of theodicy" might imply; it speaks to us on a profoundly deep emotional and personal level, as two very real, full-fleshed characters (Mack and God) relate to each other.
But its ideas are enfleshed naturally in the context of personal interaction and unfolding physical events, so that it's anything but arid and boring (I was absolutely riveted!).The book's messages about God, of course, cover much more ground than theodicy; they're about, ultimately, what it really means to relate to God in Christ, the relationship of trust and surrender to his control that He wants to have with every human being.
And although that is a noble and important goal, I find the novel itself to be overly didactic, with too many long explanations of too many things all placed directly in the mouth of God Himself (which seems to me a bit presumptuous).
Things are very often better explained and understood in story than in definition, and that is why I usually tend not to like didactic novels: they ruin a perfectly good story with an explanation.
And its message that God is love is something that needs to touch people.
Well, be warned, if you also have a weakness for tears or if you are a father, the tears will hit you like a flood.This book is a story of God sharing his heart with a broken man.
So they use her and abuse her with little consideration and then when she shudders or blows her breath, they are offended and raise their fist at God." "This blue-green ball in black space, filled with beauty even now, battered and abused and lovely." "I know that song.
