https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/472343.Duma_Key
Freemantle’s work is of the sunsets and the beautiful coastline, along with the occasional abstract object added in to offset it; he is eventually tagged as an American Primitive, but as more and more people discover his work, they are amazed by it and at his first gallery showing all works listed for sale are sold.But beneath the art, there is a sinister plot at work, because this is after all a Stephen King novel.
Regardless, Duma Key is a welcome return of the great horror writer, with an extra development of character and setting that King seems to have discovered in his later years, making this book one of his best, and one of my personal favorites.For more book reviews, and author interviews, go to BookBanter.
I heard one reviewer state that it was the best book King had ever written.
One of King's self-indulgences in the past couple of decades has been his ability to use 1000 pages to write a 500 page story.
In Duma Key, King uses each of the 607 pages with power and efficiency.Another of King's self-indulgences has been his treatment of Bryan Smith, the man who hit him during his walk and nearly killed him.
In this narrative, I believe that King is trying to work through the aftermath of his own brokenness and how it changed him, most noticeably in his treatment of Bryan Smith.
In fact, Edgar’s progress in both areas could be termed as too good to be true if not downright spooky.I read this for the first time shortly after it was originally released in 2008, and at that time I was intrigued by the story of a damaged man turning to art to heal his body and mind which is a subject that King has intimate knowledge of after being run down by a car.
In this one there’s a point near the end where hell is gonna be unleashed at sunset which is coming fast, and yet Edgar feels that’s the ideal time to sit the other characters down and tell them a long rambling story about what he’s discovered.
It was red....This must be King's most underrated book, and I've no idea why.
Maybe because it was released in 2008 and maybe horror wasn't as cool then and it kind of slipped through the cracks.
Feels weird calling a book with 70k ratings underrated, but there you go.
If this was released earlier in King's career, would it be mentioned as one of his greatest?
Maybe...This book is creeeeeepy and original.
The ending is also superb, which isn't always the case in King's books (see Under the Dome!).
All the stars and perhaps one of my top three King books...which is saying something!
In Duma Key Stephen King taps into extreme mid-life crisis and although he stirs it in a bubbling vat of macabre, the core, non-magical, element remains.
Eager to heal both body and mind, Edgar opts in to a large beach house on the lightly populated Duma Key. This being Stephen King, the beach house and the island itself come with more than just sun, sand and surf.
Also, Freemantle’s own children, while adult, or near-adult, still qualify because of how he feels about them.I did not think that Duma Key was one of his best works.
Those of you who have read Duma Key will know of what I speak.This book also has one of my favorite secondary characters ever to show up in a King novel.
At one point in the book, Edgar thinks of life as a wheel, and there's mention of his daughter hearing a woman talking inside a sink drain.
In one passage of the book, Edgar compares life to a wheel, in the sense of always coming around to the beginning, one of the main philosophies of the Dark Tower.
Anyway, when the R.L Stine and Christopher Pike seemed a bit immature, (no offense to those authors, I LOVED them as a kid!) I turned to King.He's what I know.(insert joke about my psychological issues here)After all these years, he still manages to weave a fantastic tale.So, to not give the whole story away, I'll say this:A man named -------- suffers a brain injury and loses an arm in an accident - he gets hit by a --------.
He creates surreal, haunting art that eventually causes problems.
Gets an art exhibition.
Then --------- tells him to get ------- off the island to and NEVER ----------------.
When they develop psychic powers, nobody even blinks, and everybody immediately understands how they work...because these are the things that would happen in a Stephen King novel.
The first person narrator uses the word "febrile" on page 248; first time it's appeared in the book.
On page 249, another character uses it in dialogue.
If it were ultimately going to be revealed that it's all taking place in the narrator's head, it would be a good, if sort of obvious clue, but because it isn't, it's just a reminder that it's all taking place in the author's head.
He had this great tone, a feeling for the story, and a subtle way of lending personality to the characters that makes them come alive.
King obviously gives him a lot to work with and build on, but I don't know if another reader would have done the book justice the way Slattery did.
I also felt that the book brought back pieces of other books that King has written, making it a part of the larger universe that links his stories together.
-Perse's red robe, and the mentions of red throughout the story brought the Crimson King to mind.
Muy buen libro de King. Duma Key probablemente haya sido la novela que me volvió un fanático definitivo de este autor.
However, the ability to paint such pictures seems to come from some other outside force...It's been a while since I posted a book review - three weeks to read Duma Key!
This book easily has two of King's most likeable characters in Edgar and Wireman.
I quite enjoyed the supernatural force at work within Duma Key, I liked the story behind it and thought King executed it perfectly.
He builds a real atmosphere, and if it wasn't for the scary forces at play, I'd move to Duma Key, like yesterday.As for the ending - PERFECT.
My love for King had returned, and I was no longer ashamed of it.This year my friend Sadie announced that she wanted to host a Duma Key group read, and I immediately knew I wanted to take part.
I knew that reading this book for the second time needed to happen.Revisiting Duma Key and Big Pink was exactly what I needed in my life right now.
The cover develops a lot more meaning after you read the story, but it doesn't look like a typical Stephen King novel, at least not typical horror, and I think there's something about either the cover or the synopsis that doesn't really draw people in.
You feel for these characters and hope all turns out for the best.Being a King novel, this of course does not turn out to be the case.Rather than rehash the plot (which you can read for yourself by clicking on the book's cover above), I'll simply say that DUMA KEY is the story of a man changed by fate, who loses almost everything but then finds new life, but a life that comes with a high price.
Despite it's 600 pages, DUMA KEY was for me a swift read (3 days!), and has restored my faith in King as one of the best writers we have.Highly recommended.
Always ready and willing to offer me an escape when I needed it just like a good pal should.The title of the book; for those of you wondering what kind of a key that is….it's one off the coast of Florida.
C'mon walk with for a little bit, it's just up the road, right up there and around the corner…in the dark.I have to say that I love him most when he tells a story that involves one of two things or both; 1- an creative person as the central character; a writer or as in Edgar's case a budding painter and 2- a child/children as main player(s).
Dosta dobar roman.
Ni jedno poglavlje nije imalo prazan hod i ni na sekundu se nisam dosađivao.
Ima u njemu elemenata iz „Deperation“, „Shining“, „Bag of bones“ ali su svi povezani u jednu lepu celinu tako da nisam imao problem sa onim „da sam to već negde pročitao“.
Karakterizacija je više nego odlična i svaki lik ima svoju dubinu.
Slike uopšte nisam imao potrebe da zamišljam koliko je sve bio precizno.
Kako se jeza polako uvalčila u glavne junake nisam ni ja ostao imun naslućujući da svi zajedno idemo ka nečem veoma užasnom.Jedna stabilna četvorka od mene.
I'll have to mirror fellow reviewer and friend, Edward Lorn on this one because, as he pointed out, this novel did strike me as a mix between Pet Cemetery and Bag of Bones.King did a great job with the character development and plot line.
Unlike Bag of Bones, which felt a little weak for me, Duma Key was laid down with great depth and power.
If I had a complaint, and what keeps me from giving it 5 stars, is that after following this deep drama for so long, the climax seemed a little silly in context to the build up.
His recovery seems to progress until he starts feeling his missing arm, at the same time strange storms are coming to the island and things that shouldn't be real are happening, Edgar knows that his paintings have more power and meaning than he could have ever imagined and it's up to him to solve the mystery that has enshrouded Duma Key for generations and left many skeletons during it's rein.
This book capitalizes on the author’s ability to create likable characters that we care about, foreshadow tragedy, and establish settings that can drive the story when the plot lags.The story focuses on Edgar, a protagonist that has suffered a tragedy and goes to an island off the coast of Florida to recuperate.
Even the supporting characters (including the late introduced ones) quickly appear round and lifelike.Reading this book reminds me that we are in the presence of a modern master that will be studied for many years to come.
It's a Western, dark fantasy, horror, supernatural, apocalyptic, science fiction/time travel, you name it, it's probably in there to some degree.Duma Key is not going to be pigeon-holed into a genre either so be prepared to just enjoy the ride and not try to figure it out--at its core, this story is about a man who has had his life stripped away after a body (and soul crushing) accident on the job.He goes to Florida to stay in a big house at the edge of the sea for some contemplative walks on the beach.
Of course this is a King novel so Edgar Freemantle isn't going to be left alone at "Big Pink" despite however lonely he feels, right?Right.My favorite aspect to this novel are the relationships.
DUMA KEY had so much promise.... GREAT story in the beginning. Then when Edgar Freemantle and Wireman got together, the direction and dialogue just became silly. I don't know of any 2 grown men who converse in the same way as Edgar and Wireman did. It was forced and overly trite. That was the beginning of the end for me. I was also disgusted with how King wraps everything up in Florida. Hard to buy into it all. DUMA KEY was ultimately a big disappointment.
Still, pretty much everybody comes off douchey, and Steve can't ever seem to resist throwing in stuff about bands he likes (all dorky 70s rock and, I think, maybe Shark Puppy is actually his own band?) like a first-year creative writing student, which feel so transparently self-indulgent.
Dunno why I read six hundred pages of this stuff and enjoyed it, except that it makes me feel like little eleven-year-old me reading a library copy of the Stand while the other kids are playing little league, thinking 'MAN BOOKS ARE AWESOME.'
I haven't been writing reviews of my King rereads so much lately, not for any particular reason other than perhaps sheer laziness, but this one demands that I write something.This is a mammoth tome, but it reads like sands slipping through slightly spread fingers. Is it King's magnum opus? I can't be sure, but it is such a heartbreaking, eerie, and humorous read, combining all of the man's best qualities and mixing them into a cyclone of white-knuckle suspense. If you need a place to begin reading King's work, I can't think of any better place to do it.
I will admit that King is a good tale teller and the book reads easily, but this is a novella turned into 700 pages!!
His marraige falls apart and being wealthy moves alone to a Florida Key to paint.
Something has awoken and drawn him there; his paintings develop real power.
King also provides his own spoilers and on at least two occasions he gives away vital plot lines; losing the impact of what is supposed to be a thriller/horror.
King has also designed a new way of managing the judicial system; forget the electric chair, death by painting is so much easier!
King did continue to write, but he stated numerous times that he was finding it a much harder and slower process than before.So, what does this have to do with Duma Key?
There’s a definite sense that this book was a creative outlet for King to pour all of the emotions he went through after his own accident into something creative - much like Edgar with his paintings.My accident really taught me just one thing: the only way to go on is to go on.
#40 in my Stephen King reading project, this is one of the 'modern' ones that has received mostly praise and it's actually well deserved.
Anyway, there is of course a story in this one too and if you read the blurb you know quite a lot of it.
His work attract attention, but they also affect and influence things and happenings in the world that are not usually controlled by pieces of art.For any ghost story to be successful, I think a key element is that the explanations be kept few; no specifics of mechanisms, establishing of a lot of rules and the likes is going to add to the suspense.
But I had time to spare on a trip and fancied a good old-fashioned literary wallow.King's strength remains his ability to conjure a scary tale but there are also weaknesses here, some of which could have been fixed with good editing.
When people I was supposed to care about died, I didn't care.King has a way of telegraphing plot developments.
Three or four times, he writes, "I never saw her again," or "That was our final conversation." It's an old trick that wears out.Having said all this, King remains unmatched at describing pure evil and that's what accounts for his success I suppose.
When I read this for the first time, nearly a decade ago, I absolutely loved it.
It's just that, sometimes, King gets a bug in his caboose about things and just over-saturates his work with it.
There was a lot more technology mentioned in this book than there ever needed to be, and all it's done is age the book and make it feel dated, even though it's only 10 years old.
All of the things that I loved from the first read-through (with the exception of the gripes from above) I still loved this time.
But I have a feeling that this will be a challenge for a lot of King's latest books.
No voy a dar nombres, dejémoslo así.Lo primero que llama la atención de ‘Duma Key’, si es que se ha seguido parte de la trayectoria de King, es que su prosa es más templada, y eso no es malo, pero echo de menos esa chispa que caracterizaba sus obras de los 80.
No es bueno contar más, sobre todo en una novela de King, aunque el último tercio del libro es puro King.Para terminar, he de decir que ‘Duma Key’ es un libro muy bien escrito, posee esa “facilidad” para leerlo tan difícil de conseguir.
Edgar is proper parts sympathetic, amusing, humble, confused and struggling, and with King giving him a voice, he's a pleasure to sit down with even for the most trying anecdotes.That's not to say crazy things don't happen.
That half-blind potential psychic, Wireman, is also a great balancing character – funny, philosophical, so suited to letting life and a book wash away on a beautiful beach, and giving perspective to the things Edgar experiences.
It’s things like this, especially as they carry out experientially through the book, that make it spiritually engrossing – even if the deepest Mr. King forces his characters to speak is in guessing that maybe there is an afterlife or humorously paraphrasing Nietzsche.
"I know about shadows...You just want to be careful they don't grow teeth."I don't want to say a lot because I went into this book fairly blind & I think it's better that way. This book is amazing, and it's now one of my favorites, King or non-King. This is definitely one I would reread, and it goes on the list of books that I feel have made my life a little better. This book gives you ALL the feelings, and is such a vibrant story. It was beautifully written & deserves all the stars.
