https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77565.The_Fall_of_Hyperion
But this time, apparently Simmons broke into his house and managed to directly implant much of the book directly into Mr. Kemper’s brain via some kind of crude funnel device.”“I find that highly unlikely, Nurse.”“Most of us did, Doctor.
If Kemper knew that this book would probably do this to him, why did he still read it?”“I guess he had told several people that Hyperion was just so good that he had to know how it ended, even if it killed him.”***************************************I think the word ‘epic’ was invented to describe this book.What Simmons began in Hyperion finishes here with a story so sprawling and massive that it defies description.
As the pilgrims seek the Shrike, the ominous thing, in the eerie Valley of the Time Tombs, avoided by the frightened inhabitants, here on the planet Hyperion, it does not appear, what to do?
Some pilgrims begin to disappear, the Shrike finally is seen, the eight mysterious Time Tombs light up, explored by the group but they find nothing inside.
As the pilgrims prepare to enter the Time Tombs, the war between the Ousters and the Hegemony is just hours from breaking out.
Can they enter the Time Tombs quickly enough to prevent intergalactic war and the deaths of billions?Here we are, the second half of the epic Dan Simmons started in Hyperion.
However, the bigger story is the war between the Hegemony and its enemies.During my initial read, I didn't like this one as much as Hyperion, probably because it lacked the Canterbury Tales-like structure of the first book.
In fact, in a Shrike-like manner this book traveled back in time and slashed my opinion of the book I read prior to this one which now looks shabby by comparison.The first Hyperion book ends on a (musical) cliff hanger, The Fall of Hyperion carries on from there though the first chapter is narrated in the first person by a "new" cybrid protagonist Joseph Severn.
The wonderful world building from the previous book is further developed in this book, we get more expositions about the Hegemony, the TechnoCore and a little more about The Shrike, not to mention the further adventures of our favorite pilgrims.
The Days of Atonement are upon us and the Lord of Pain soon will walk among us."The shadow of war has fallen on the Web. The Ousters are initiating a full-scale invasion of the central planets of the Hegemony of Man. Chaos rules in the corridors of power on Tau Ceti Center.
Gladstone was a very minor character in Hyperion, but rose to the centre of the scene here in the second book.
It's amazing to watch her try to save a society crumbling in the flames of war, and remain a beacon of hope for billions of Hegemony citizens.Writing a sequel to Hyperion must have been a difficult job for Dan Simmons, and it shows in the book.
If Simmons had dropped me into the middle of the war between the Hegemony, the Ousters and the Core, if he'd thrown me into the midst of the Time Tombs, if he'd introduced me to the Shrike and the Keats persona and the Pilgrims -- without the baggage of what got them there -- I think I would have cruised through The Fall of Hyperion and loved it with fervor.
While somewhat uneven at the start this book developed into an awesome story with some of the most distinct, memorable and well developed world-building I've ever read, interesting and sympathetic characters, a strong central plot, cool literary references (mostly stemming from Simmons' serious man-crush on John Keats) and some thought provoking philosophy (although Simmons loses marks for incorporating philosophy into the plot and world in an organic and interesting way rather than through a series of forced monologues from every single character as the great Mr. Erikson has shown us is the best, in fact only, way).The first 1/2 to 2/3 of the book was probably a 3 star read but towards the end the momentum built and everything came together in impressive fashion.
While some readers of the first book were a little miffed at that books truncated ending (ahem) word on the street was that Simmons delivered the plus size behemoth in one package and the publisher was the one with the bright idea to split it in half.Either way, Simmons’ incredibly ambitious tale of the pilgrims on Hyperion continues and his megalithic world building is as impressive as in the first half.Full to bursting with classical and biblical references, this also reveals inspiration from Frank Herbert, Asimov, Clarke and maybe even Tolkien.
The sequel to Simmons' classic Hyperion is every bit as engaging and mind-blowing as the first book.
Without going into spoiler territory, I thought I would talk about some of the interesting themes that are addressed in the book.
The Templars are environmentalists (another theme I will address in a minute), whereas the Shrike Cult are fanatical pessimists.
The nightmarish use of human brain power to feed the intelligence of the Core is has been addressed in dozens of sci-fi (The Matrix being one particularly example) movies since 1990 - I wonder if Simmons was at the origin of this trope or not.
I can only imagine the incomprehending stares I would have gotten.The point of this seemingly pointless anecdote of mine is that for about half of this book, I felt completely lost and up in the air because I couldn’t find a way to visualize the structure of the story, which made it hard to derive any satisfaction from it, since my brain was so preoccupied with trying to figure this intangible thing into something more concrete, and it just wasn’t happening.
Christmas 2010: I realised that I had got stuck in a rut. I was re-reading old favourites again and again, waiting for a few trusted authors to release new works. Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award. That’s 35 books, 6 of which I’d previously read, leaving 29 titles by 14 authors who were new to me.While working through this reading list I got married, went on my honeymoon, switched career and became
Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award.
was one of the six award winners I had read before starting my Glorious Locus Quest (along with 3 other Simmons books, an Asimov and a May).
It’s a book I would dearly love to re-read, but it looks like I’m going to have to re-buy first because I leant the whole Cantos to a friend who’s since moved house and taken it to the other side of the country...
It’s not like we see a well-described alternative in this story, though when stellar distances regarding combat are noted, it’s usually presented in terms of AU, so the distinction is implicit.We are given a neo-Marinetti, who avers that “warfare is on the threshold of becoming an art form” (105).
Conceptually, it’s annoying: apparently it’s part of a far future contest between humans and AIs sent back in time to find something for the human end of the conflict.
Why use the rhetorical sleight of popping the narration on the president of the galaxy, and then give ersatz access?
But if you want to get the full meaning, see the entire subtle complexity, understand Dan Simmons' fears for a sickening and stagnant human future as well as his hopes for the fulfillment of human potential, an optimistic utopian outlook that seems at once utterly attainable and so far away, I suggest you read all four books.I would love to write more about each book individually and the four books taken together, but they are simply too important to me.
I read these books over the course of 2010, which is turning out to be the best year of my life in many ways, and the Hyperion Cantos have had an important and positive influence on my thinking about God and religion and love and family.
There were long sections of dialogue as Joseph sits in on war briefings, which I found uninteresting.However I feel about halfway through the tides changed and I became completely invested in the fates of this world and the people within it as I got to know the amazing character that is Meina Gladstone, CEO of Hegimony, and a woman that holds the fates of billions in her hands.You ask, what is our policy?
That is our policy.Dan Simmons is again at the top of his game, and had me with his beautiful prose even when I wasn't completely interested in what was going on.
On my list of All Time Favorites.
Viewed as one novel, the Hyperion Cantos (including Hyperion, this novel and the two subsequent novels) comprise, in my opinion, one of the GREATEST works of Science Fiction EVER WRITTEN.
Space Opera on a epic scale.
Detailed, original and incredibly imaginative world building and a dense, mind-blowing plot.
Oh yeah, and it has one of the coolest characters/creatures ever devised...THE SHRIKE!!
HIGHLY RECOMMENDEDWinner: British Science Fiction Award for Best Novel (1992)Winner: Locus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1991)Nominee: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1991)Nominee: Nebula Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1991)
With elements of horror woven through, it’s an extremely twisted vision that takes you to the farthest reaches of science fiction.The plot is elaborate and multifaceted yet by the end, the many seemingly chaotic inexplicable threads intertwine to a satisfying conclusion.
Simmons is equally deft at integrating character, plot, action, theme, and poetic language, often describing the most fantastical scenes.
One, I found the sex scenes described by the character Fedmahn Kassad to walk too far into porn territory.
My only consolation is that to some degree, the somewhat blatant writing of the sex scenes does play well when they transform into moments of extreme violence and horror.
I was fairly happy with the way Simmons concluded each of the pilgrims tales.
Elsewhere in Simmons vast and complex world the three way power struggle between the Hegemony, the Ousters, and the TechnoCore exploded into full on war.
This Keats cybrid had the ability to observe, by way of dreams, the happenings from the pilgrims on Hyperion and a few power players in the world of Hegemony politics.
The new Keats was a likable character and Simmons first person narrative was as engaging as it was in the first book.
Terminada la duología de "Hyperion" la conclusión es obvia: absoluta obra maestra de la ciencia ficción y un libro que, al menos para mí, ha supuesto una inflexión literaria.
Es deslumbrante la maestría de Simmons en este aspecto; pues aglutinar tantos elementos en un libro y que estos operen de forma armoniosa y congruente es digno de elogio.Y creo que ese es el fuerte de "Hyperion", lejos de ser un libro de personajes o acción es más una obra que espolea la imaginación y el intelecto del lector.
I'll be interested to see how Simmons follows it up in his Endymion duology set several centuries after the climactic events of Hyperion, since it's always difficult to create a second act to a story that has already reached a satisfying conclusion.Normally I would try to write a complete review of each book and my reactions/impressions, but I just don't have the time or energy to write reviews that would do this series justice at the moment.
A chaotic mess sprinkled with rubies...This continuation of the Hyperion saga seems to have been written by Dan Simmon's agent, pushing for more pages, using a neural whip on him for more cash.
(Sometimes, the poetry and references are brilliant, to be fair).And along with all this, some genuine rubies (about half-way through) from the most interesting characters: Sol and Brawne.
The Kassad romantic sequences with Moneta are often wonderful, but the battle sequences are tiresomely repetitious.Of the overlong ending, which somehow seems rushed (strange), the stories of Moneta, Sol and Rachel are the most surprising and enjoyable.A good editor would have stripped 150 pages from this book, and enforced a more even pacing and style on Simmons (and his agent).Hyperion was a work of true genius.
On he flaredThe Less Obvious Overarching FrameAnother reviewer has proposed that the Hyperion duology may, and perhaps should, be read in reverse order.
You don’t lead with your chin, and in my view, while it is a great novel, Fall of Hyperion lacks the soul of the first book.
“It was great, I loved it, but I don’t know, something is missing.” A Dream: Simmons Shrikes Me(Something is stabbing me in the gut.
There are very few parts of the Hyperion duology that I don’t really like and Kwatz if this isn’t one of them.
Sólo hay una cosa que me mosquea de este libro.... ¡NO HABER SABIDO JAMÁS EL NOMBRE DEL CÓNSUL!
And of course, the Core represents human creation run amok, a frequent theme in science fiction.What I found truly impressive was Simmons’ writing in 1990 about a World Web, to which citizens were connected at all times using comlink devices!
Remember, this was before our World Wide Web was really much of a thing and well before smart phones which could keep people connected almost all the time.
Book number 291 in my Science Fiction & Fantasy reading project.
En esta segunda parte de este primer ciclo de Los Cantos de Hyperion, conoceremos el final de la aventura de nuestros peregrinos, tendremos la aparición de nuevos personajes con mucho más protagonismo y descubriremos que una gran amenaza asola a la Hegemonía, el gobierno de la Red. A través del cibrido Joseph Severn y sus “sueños”, visitaremos a todos los personajes y conoceremos los detalles que le ocurren a cada uno de ellos, danzando entre las Tumbas de Tiempo y Centro Tau Ceti, foco de gobierno de la Hegemonia de la FEM Meina Gladstone.
Una obra maestra de la ciencia ficción ¡LÉANLA! Lo único que puedo escribir en este momento es hagstwagqystshjwh, así que en cuanto logre recuperarme de esta maravilla que acabo de leer, intentaré escribir algo coherente.
Ahora, cambiamos la estructura por historias en paralelo, contadas en dos personas y con el añadido de dos personajes importantísimos: Gladstone (de quien yo me había hecho a la idea de que era antagónica) y el cíbrido Joseph Severn.Casi todos los misterios ofrecidos en la primera parte son resueltos.
Τελείωσα την διλογία του Υπερίωνα και το πρώτο μου σχόλιο είναι:Ουάου!Tι έπος!Και δεν ξέρω πως να συ
Wow. So different from the first book, but every bit as great, maybe even greater.The time tombs are opening, and the universe will never be the same.
Our Pilgrims, each with their own agenda, are standing between the destruction of humanity or its rebirth.Can the CEO save the world?
Is the info she's acting on correct?
So many issues, and none of the answers obvious.
I love books that surprise me!
This doesn't...it has real people with deep backgrounds, with issues that though seemingly small are important to them.
What happens when you place your heart against the good of humanity?
Spoiler-free recenzija:DEFINIRANJE VARIJABLE HYPERIONPrva knjiga je odlična uvertira u svemir Dana Simmonsa, ima sporiji tempo i služi za postavljanje određenih bazičnih stvari poput definiranja misterija i tehnologije, detaljnog i opširnog uvođenja likova i slično.
Doduše, neke stvari su objašnjenja načelno i vjerujem da će u idućim nastavcima biti dodatno razjašnjenja pa je opet teško suditi o konačnom dojmu, ali prosječan čitatelj bi trebao nakon prva dva nastavka biti zadovoljan završetkom priče.Pad Hyperiona ima potpuno drugačiju strukturu.
Određenom broju ljudi sigurno je drugačiji način prezentacije priče kroz Hyperion izdvojio knjigu iz mase drugih naslova, ali meni osobno i ovakav uobičajeni način prezentacije radnje je odličan, pogotovo jer doprinosi dinamičnost knjige.
WOW.
I read Hyperion a few years ago, and I always intended to pick up this book.
Where Hyperion was a collection of several impactful yet self-contained stories, The Fall escalates everything into a much grander scale.
I've never read a book that dives so deeply into religion, morals, the meaning and core of humankind, the implications that AI could have on future human development...Also, Meina Gladstone.
She's is one of the most formidable badasses in the history of fiction.
Both this and the prior book!
