https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/323136.Anya
If you are in the mood for a good book of drama/action/adventure then Anya might be the book for you.I first read Anya many years ago and this gripping book has stuck with me ever since.Meet Anya, an innocent, young, Polish Jewish woman trying to survive WW2 and the holocaust as she meets one horrible obstacle to survival after another.I marveled at her ingenuity and watched her grow from helpless victim to determined survivor. This is one of those older books that has probably been forgotten by now but I do think it's worth giving a try.
The part depicting life in the ghetto was moving but by now I was beginning to have a problem with the tone of the narrative voice – it was too cajoling, too keen to entertain, too whimsical at times for the gravity of the subject.
It’s essentially an old fashioned conventional narrative – its prime purpose is to entertain in the way 19th century novels set out to do.
And because it’s not a true story suspension of disbelief is another huge problem.
I will say it right off, it was the author's style of writing that made this book different from the others I have read.
I have never read a book that so clearly depicted life in a Jewish ghetto.
In addition, the evolving relationship between the peasants and former servants to those in the Jewish ghetto is worth observing.Through page 116: What am I suppose to do to get you guys, my GR friends, to read this book.
Maybe it is not for you if you do not like the lines I have quoted....Through page 69: I absolutely love this book!
One of my favorite novels.On my latest reread:It’s always hardest for me to review the books I love the most.
I first read this book in about 1976, and had read it another time or two or three before I recently buddy read it with my Goodreads’ friend, Diane, her first time reading it.It’s still one of my favorite novels.
I’d intended to skim along, but quickly changed and read the book, partly because I quickly realized I’d forgotten a lot but mostly because I wanted to once again immerse myself in the story; I couldn’t pull away from it.It’s a real gem.
It’s a great book for discussion.
I read this book many years ago as a teenager.
It's a book that takes some concentration to get through with achingly long descriptions.
This was the first book I had ever read about the Halocaust.
In all the years since I first read it, I have never forgotten this story or her name, Anya.
A few years ago, my daughter brought home a bag of books her school was discarding.
She can't stand to see books without a home!
And as I looked through her treasures, Anya came back into my life!
I struggled with rating this book - truly would give a 3.5 if GR had half stars.
Anya was a true saga of a book, that starts when the primary character is a child and carries through well into her adulthood.
It opens with one of my favorite lines of a book "They are two lights.
My mother and father." What pulled my rating down is that I felt it was very overwritten and there were some sentences that were repeated word for word.
Read it when it first came out and it remains to this day as one of my favorites.
The story is about a Russian Jewish family that moved to Poland a few years before the 2nd-world war.
Their life was genteel and wonderful and each member of the family was so caring and thoughtful to each other and their relatives.
Anya and her child survive, and they are the only survivors from her family.
Anya had to search for her daughter after the war and finally found her.
Anya's heroic struggle just to survive and the strong determination she had to search and find her daughter, who was snatched-up by one of the Nazi officer's to become his and his wife's child.
I first read this in about 1977, and it has returned to me many times over the years. I recently rediscovered it and read the 485 pages in 3 days. It remains THE best novel on the Holocaust I've ever read. Not overly graphic in the details, but so powerful you feel as if you are in every moment with the characters.
In fact, have never read such a superficial and unfeeling book about the Holocaust, to the point where I don't just dislike this brainless account of the event, I am offended by it.
The book starts off all right, introducing us to a privileged Russian family living in Poland before the war.
Over the hundreds of pages of this novel, what such inane writing does is to diminish the real experience of the Holocaust, both for those who died and those who lived.
I would probably rate the first couple hundred pages with 2 stars, maybe only 1.
Her writing style drove me crazy, especially with tiny print and long paragraphs.
Her experience was horrific and in such contrast to the pre-war days of being frivolous and spoiled.
It is hard to imagine living through the experience of being constantly hunted, going to unbelievable measures to stay alive and to have most of everyone you know and love captured and killed.
I would probably give the middle couple hundred pages 3 stars for writing style and 5 for content.
This is an exquisitely written, lovingly detailed literary feast -- the setting is drawn down to the last detail, beautiful and jewel-like -- and then smashed like an eggshell in the unfolding of the novel's events. Beautiful and harrowing and eye-opening. A must-read.
HOWEVER, as for me, being someone who has read more than a few novels/nonfiction accounts on this topic, I found this FICTIONAL work about Jews in Poland during WWII just not believable.
I couldn't help but feel like I was reading the horrific, sadistic war epic version of FORREST GUMP.
That's right, I'm comparing this book to Forrest Gump.
(It didn't get ONE star!!) This was the first I read about the Jewish ghettos and also about much of the aftermath that Jewish survivors went through trying to make lives for themselves AFTER the war was over.
I can understand that this context is to juxtapose this against what comes after but I found myself waiting for the real story to start and getting more and more fed up reading instead wordy stories of her princess lifestyle before the war.
Example, almost an entire chapter relates how she saw a bed set she loved but the person wouldn't tell her where she got it ....
then how she got that person to tell her and how she then ordered this special bed ....
As she starts to relay the terrible events of the war years I found it very difficult to relate to her.
As other reviewers have mentioned, this was a difficult book to read.
The writing style was difficult, including tiny print and long paragraphs.
It took me a long time to get through this book, but I'm glad I stayed with it.
It was an amazing story of Anya's life as a Holocaust survivor.It was a bit long-winded in parts and I found myself rereading passages again and again.
At the time you wonder why all this is being told, but it all comes around and you realize how horrific her later life became.This book will go up on the shelf to be read again.
owned by the narrator before the war.
Every single one of them.Then we are to believe that, because of her beauty and her large breasts, this woman was helped by every man around her and that the minute the war ended the Jews were treated like everybody else.We are also expected to believe that after 3 weeks her child, who had been cared for by a wealthy family and fed very well, was so ill from malnutrition that she was unrecognizable - 3 weeks!The narrator talks a lot about fairy tales and that is exactly what this book is.
A fairy tale.
Such a powerful book. As usual with any book about the Holocaust, I can only read a few chapters at a time and it takes a while to get through. So worth it, though. Ranks right up there with "Heavy Sand" by Anatoli Rybakov. The only negative was the way the dialogue was written. All bunched together in one long paragraph. Made deciphering the speaker very difficult. I usually had to read passages of dialogue twice to get the words matched up with the proper speaker. No other complaints. A book everyone should read.
Read Anya several years ago and have always remembered it as one of my favorite stories. The author, Schaeffer has a way of describing places and feelings etc. so that you feel like you are there. I love stories like this telling of people's survival through such rough times. It always makes you stop and realize what these people went through and be gratefull for our own lives. I have always loved the name "Anya" since reading this book.
Can't say I enjoyed this book. The first two Chapters are devoted to household descriptions alone...and while I understand the premise for all this -- to set up everything that was lost -- it was extremely hard to get through. Some extremely heartbreaking moments throughout (as you would imagine), but the author's style drove me batty. I gave it two stars because it DID move me to tears, several times. Especially the Epilogue...the reflection. Could feel the loss.
Anya grew up as a wealthy and privileged Polish Jewess. Until the Nazis came.
I felt that this book took *forever* to read; normally, I take about six days max to read a book, as I don't read most books straight through; this one took me over two weeks to get finished.
Part of it was the incredibly small print of the book, and its length, at 512 pages (normally not a problem for me) made it take a long time to get through.
I felt that the author had a tendency to jump from one subject to the next, within one paragraph, and this haphazard style was not to my liking.
I struggled with this book at times.
The book is very detailed, and those details really help cement the emotions of the book, especially considering the subject nature and how horrible much of what she goes through really is.
This really is a well written book, and I don't mind the length of it and loved the details.
It is heart wrenching to read at times, but the book is full of emotion.
My one negative of this book is the print size.
For anybody with vision problems, we aware of just how small the print on the book is.
This book has 450 pages and believe me if the descriptions of the family houses were cut one would still get an accurate picture of how an upper middle class home looked before the war.
There are of course, harrowing tales of what things were like during the holocaust .
However the protagonist had more luck than most people would have in a lifetime , which made the book rather implausible.
To me the Epilogue is the most interesting part of the book When one goes through such an experience, what are the changes in that happen as life goes forward ?
I read this book many years ago.It was this book that made me realize that it can happen anywhere, anytime.Anya before the war was just like we are living today. We think we are safe and s cure from anti- semitism, but it can happen anywhere.
I read this book multiple times as a teen, and was wondering if I had remembered it clearly. It's a story about the Holocaust, voiced by a young polish woman, and it's beautifully written. I'm so glad I read it again, it's an extraordinary story.
Amazing.
One of the first WW II stories I read. I still remember it.
I got hooked from the first page till the last one. It was a page turner for me.
I LOVE Anya. Wow!
What an interesting book.
This is the story of a young girl growing up in comfort and privilege, with a large, loving, Jewish family in Poland about the time WWII begins.
I loved the story, but I will say that it was hard to read because I sometimes got confused about who was speaking the dialogue in a paragraph.
The author would switch from one character speaking to another without identifying the speaker.
One other thing seemed strange to me.
Anya had the best luck of any character I've ever read about.
Strange....
It is an older book, and that may explain the style a bit.
