https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3054684-stargazer
3.5/Pues realmente me ha gustado más que el primero, y temo que es porque la trama se centra más en el internado que en la relación de Luca y Bianca. No puedo evitarlo, me llama más saber qué va a pasar con Raquel, Vic, Baltasar....
YAY!! I finished anotherrrrr book. October is looking to be a great month!!! I can’t wait to review this one. Lucas is just absolutely adorable and these books are a great escape from reality. So excited to have found this series! ♥For more of my reviews, please visit:
SARAH: *headdesk*Then there was this dumbness about Bianca's childhood:BIANCA'S PARENTS: Yeah, so we've not told you the truth about everything that ever was.BIANCA: Like what?BIANCA'S PARENTS: We told you nice stories about drinking blood in order to make sure you're eager to become a vampire & avoid an unpleasant, painful fate as a wraith, because we love you & want you to be as happy as possible with your vampiric heritage.BIANCA: Piss off, Mom & Dad. My precious Lucas was right.
My precious Lucas & his beautiful hair will protect me.SARAH: *headdesk headdesk*And then there was this dumbness about Balthazar's sister:RANDOM BLONDE VAMPIRE: I r dangerous.BIANCA: No, you're not.
Seriously.I'm guessing Bianca going on and on about The Kiss by Klimt (which I think is an ugly piece of art, but that's just my opinion) is to show that she's actually Bella Swan sophisticated and deep?
The Kiss is a painting, not a way of life.The thing with vampires and running water...
I know I'm taking this too far, but the reason this is getting on my nerves is because they mentioned Bianca and the rest of the Black Cross gang driving through the Lincoln Tunnel to get to New York City.
Not to mention "Please say yes Bianca" ??
Bianca is determined to make it through the year even though without Lucas it is going to be hard.
She has made it her mission to find out why Evernight is accepting human students so Lucas can tell his superiors and his mission will be complete.
Evernight is completely safe and she wants the Black Cross, a group of vampire hunters, to back off and drop their investigation.Bianca’s vampire instincts are getting closer to the surface.
The trouble is, Bianca doesn’t know if that is what she wants.
On one of their outings, Bianca is approached by a troubled female vampire who is being hunted by the Black Cross.
This is just the beginning of the wangst that follows for Bianca as she has to decide to give up everything she is and everyone she loves for Lucas and his ideals.Balthazar (the only really likable character in the whole book) discovers her coming back from her meeting with Lucas.
He's going to tell her parents but when Bianca tells her side of the story, we find out that the vampire girl Bianca saw was his sister Charity.
Then they decided they wanted her to be a wraith, not a vampire.
Bianca basically has to decide that she doesn't want to be a vampire ever so she can be with him.
You know, like ungrateful little wastes of space like Bianca, who are judgmental and oblivious to their own flaws and rude and overall just nasty things to be around.
Everything, and I mean EVERYTHING in this book is completely lost over the fact that Bianca is an unattractive life form who sucks the joy out of everything around her, complaining, whining, being pretty terrible overall and generally acting like that girl in tenth grade that I beat the crap out of behind the gym one day because I just couldn’t stand to hear her talk anymore.
That girl.But also, the book is bad, too.
English I started reading this saga for only one thing: ghosts. I heard that they appeared in these books and it is a subject that caught my attention, and finally that topic appeared. In the first book there is no talk of ghosts and I thought there would not be, but finally in the middle of this book they appeared.The book remains in line with the first, at first I could not get hooked until this topic appeared that I like, I could not let go.It is very similar to the first, in the end the sam
En el primer libro no se habla de fantasmas y creía que no los habría, pero por fin a mitad de este libro aparecieron.El libro se mantiene en la línea del primero, al principio no conseguía engancharme hasta que apareció esta temática que tanto me gusta, ahí no lo pude soltar.Se parece mucho al primero, al final pasa lo mismo en ambos libros, un conflicto que te deja boquiabierta.
The characters, the plot, the worldbuilding, the twists, and very most of all, the emotional connect.As much as I loved EVERNIGHT, STARGAZER was even better!The book opens at the start of the new school year, months after Bianca and Lucas are separated.
If you don't connect to them and care about what happens to them, then it doesn't matter how brilliant the plot is.
The wait is going to be painful.STARGAZER has firmly sealed the EVERNIGHT books in my list of favorite series.
I can't wait to get my hands on the third book in this series!
But why three stars?I've given it a not so high rating because the book is not so original and rip-offs of New Moon, Vampire Knight, Harry Potter, House of Night, Vampire Academy, Uglies, City of Bones, Graceling, Hunger Games, and Dear John (why is Dear John here?
(I’ve already seen that on Vampire Knight).-----‘Kay Im too lazy to add other things up but I just can’t help the feeling that I’ve read something like that before and with that my always next step is to compare.
The characters were lacking, the story took a strange turn that felt fake and I didn't enjoy the plot until about halfway through the book.
I was glad to see that I had none of those problems while reading Stargazer.Stargazer does a great job helping the reader remember what happened in the first book.
Bianca was so much less annoying for some reason, maybe because she wasn't obsessing over Lucas the whole time, and it really improved the story.
I also felt that the chemistry between Bianca and Lucas was really improved so it made me actually be able to sort of root for them.
Now that his secret is out, he has fled from Evernight and (Well, we don't need a whole recap of the last book but they escape together, Bianca meets Black Cross, they get caught, Bianca has to leave Lucas, yada yada yada) is away from Bianca.Our story begins with Bianca trying to figure out why Mrs. Bethany is letting humans into the school.
He agrees that if Bianca helps him find his sister, he'll help her get off campus to meet up with Lucas if her and Balthazar act like a couple to fool Bianca's parents.As the year goes on and on and on, more creepy things happen.
Of course Lucas and Bianca are meant to be together.
It also seems unlikely when Bianca is already drinking more blood and even killed a mouse without realizing.I also felt that Stargazer ended poorly.
After the huge fire and the possible death of most of the people she knows, including her parents, Bianca doesn’t question leaving Lucas even for a second.
It’s just another hurdle in the way of true love right?)And just because Bianca and Lucas are together, doesn’t mean the book has been wrapped up.
This review can also be found at http://fortheloveofbooksreviews.blogs...In the sequel to Evernight, Bianca has spent some time without Lucas, the boy she loves, but she is able to communicate with him through letters.
The romance wasn't cheesy, the tension wasn't overdone and I like how the love triangle wasn't 'aggressive' or Bianca's most important worry.Of course, the characters within this novel were just as interesting and enjoyable to read about as they were in the first book.
I hope this continues on throughout the series.I think that the use of the ghost or spirit within the story made this book suspenseful and added originality to the author's interpretation of vampires.
It is beautifully written, the first part is kind of boring and nothing happens, and then the last few chapters are so packed with action it's amazing.
Bianca is returning to school after a grueling summer separated from Lucas.
The wraith hauntings happen at wide intervals and are the only interesting thing in the beginning of the book.
The end of the book however is packed with so many revelations and action scenes that it leaves you dizzy.
The end was enough to make me want to know what happens in the next book.
I really liked Evernight.
And as much as I loved Evernight– Stargazer is even better!I don’t want to go into the plot too much and really go into what happens because a lot happens!
In my review of Evernight, I mentioned that I would like to learn more about Balthazar, and I was happy to see happen in this novel.
One of the most important things to me as a reader is good characterization and Stargazer has that.
I love Bianca and Lucas’s story!The only thing bad about this novel is that ended!
I really don’t know if I can wait!
It's hard for me to give it right amount of starts, I liked it and I badly wanted to know how it goes on.
I really like Balthasar a lot, more than Lucas and this makes me hard to follow what happens in the book.
What I like is how Claudia Gray mixes in some hot and erotic scenes but still be suitable for Teens, she has a way to get the right amount.
Although, sure for me it could be more ;) 4 stars minus one for being annoyed with Bianca.
Já... ani vlastně nevím, jestli to bylo lepší nebo horší než první díl, ale rozhodně se mi celý příběh moc líbí! naprosto jsem si oblíbila Balthazara, kterému jsem přála aby byl s Biancou, ale Lucas, kterého zrovna v lásce nemám, se musí vždy motat okolo. Chudák Balty nakonec zůstal na ocet. :D
*plot spoiler warning* I also learned that the true identity of Evernight Academy's students as vampires is supposed to be a major plot twist for us, but too bad I found out who they really are by simply looking at the book introduction on the back cover of Hourglass, book 3 of the series.*end of spoilerSo to me, the major plot twist isn't such a big surprise at all.Each book of the Evernight series has pretty cover art, and judging from the introduction at the back cover, it seems to also have an interesting story to tell.I think Stargazer is far from being a Twilight rip-off, nor does it focus entirely on the romance between the leading characters.
Stargazer is book 2 in the Evernight series.I thought this book was good but found Bianca to be very whiny. I didn't expect what happens at the end. Hopefully I'll enjoy the next book as much as I did the first.
It was great how Vic had figured out the connection and Bianca didn't even think to talk to him about it earlier - and Vic was so casual about the whole idea of ghosts - it was so true to his character.
It was probably the best part of the book - because it was the one time I really felt like 2 characters were connecting.
I was not a "Team Jacob" person - but here, I think I have totally become a "Team Balty" person because of that lack of depth to the relationship between Lucas and Bianca.
Sigue con una escena bastante patética en donde Bianca trata de buscar una respuesta que la haría quedar bien frente a todos los amigos de Lucas, ese galán al que le encanta levantar la voz y pegarle a lo primero que se le cruza.
Tampoco sé si es un error de traducción, pero encontrar dos veces la misma palabra en una sola página me exaspera.El poco puntaje no se lo lleva el giro de la historia, sino el personaje nuevo (bastante retorcido, por cierto), Balthazar (sufre más que Bianca y Lucas), Raquel (está más “rara” que antes) y los momentos en donde de verdad creí estar leyendo una saga paranormal.
This was so much better then Evernight!Stargazer continues the story of Bianca who as to find a way to survive at Evernight without Lucas.
Though she's apart from him, there love is still very much alive and soon enough she plots ways to be with him again.
Bianca isn't that shy, unknowing girl we read in Evernight, she's finally embracing who she is and the friendship between her and fellow Vampire, Balthazar, has made feel less alone.
And, so the fun begins!In Stargazer everything is finally coming together!
This is a fun and wonderfully entertaining series that I'm glad I picked up!Can't wait for Hourglass!
After reading (& severely disliking) Evernight, I probably wouldn't have bothered to read Stargazer had I not already had it ready to go. While it's still not the best thing I've ever read, it is a hell of a lot better than the first.In addition to vampires and maybe halfbreed vampires, now we have wraiths running around Evernight Academy. And that is awesome. I know we're probably not supposed to like the wraiths, but I do. I do so hard. Those things are ruthless and fun, just going around
After reading (& severely disliking) Evernight, I probably wouldn't have bothered to read Stargazer had I not already had it ready to go.
While it's still not the best thing I've ever read, it is a hell of a lot better than the first.In addition to vampires and maybe halfbreed vampires, now we have wraiths running around Evernight Academy.
I know we're probably not supposed to like the wraiths, but I do.
Mostly because she's a stone cold bitch.The main problem I have with these books is the lack of life in them, which, haha I know I get it, they're about vampires.
....I probably will read book 3 though.
I went into this book expecting to be blown away!
I was appeased once I reached the ending...I was a bit irritated that Claudia Gray didn't fully delve into the ending(I don't want to be more specific, because I don't want to ruin it for anyone).
In a sense, I feel as though she has backed herself into a corner, and the only way she can be free is by bringing a lot of drama into the third book.
Note: This book takes a slightly different turn than you would expect.
It had more action, and a couple of twists.
What i liked: The ghost - The identity of the ghost that Bianca saw alot, really surprised me.The wraiths - They were really interesting, and the twist about why they were there was really good.
The ending - It ended with a lot of action, and Bianca making a decision that could change everything.
What i didn't like:The story takes forever to get interesting.
In both books, nothing really happened until the halfway mark.
I do own the four books, but because of how much Bianca annoys me, i'll be taking a break from the series.
The book wasn't as good as the first and I think that's because there was less of the Lucas and Bianca parts.I liked how Claudia Gray got Balthazar and Claudia together.
I like Balthazar and his personality definitly.
I didn't like that idea as much.
The whole idea of it and how she was born didn't really click with me.All in all, I still enjoyed reading this book and finished it quite quickly also.
I do want to read the next book, Hourglass.
I did not like this book and am glad that I didn't pay for this book.The heroine is a puling idiot.The hero isn't very appealing.The best character in the book is Belthasar. He does not get the girl.I hated the ending...how in the world does Bianca think she is going to hide her need for blood living with a group of vampire hunters. Stupid.All and all the characters were rather cardboard. This is one Romeo and Juliet knockoff that does not work.
Çoğu kişi bu seriyi sevmez, kabul. Arkadaşlarımda sevmiyor... Çünkü biraz kasvetli.. okuduğunuz o distopyalar gibi romanlar arasınız biliyorum ama beni bu seriye bağlayan bir şey var. İlk kitabını da bunu da bir gün de okudum bitirdim.. Aklımı dağıtıyor, severek de okuyorum.. .3. yü de merakla bekliyorum
AHHHH, that ending, seriously?!?!?!? Now I'm going to have to frantically rush out to get the 3rd book.....This is such a good series for those of you who like the whole vampire thing... It might have a few similarities to Twilight, but all in all this feels like such an original story.
