https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53925.The_War_of_the_End_of_the_World
that's what happens when the world's most overrated living author (GGM) gets punched in the face by a far superior one (MVL).
the war of the end of the world deserves the place in the pantheon occupied by marquez's silly epics.
read vargas llosa's war of the end of the world and mutis's the adventures and misadventures of maqroll.
and vargas llosa himself?
MVL has long held the top spot on my 'people i'd like to sit with in an open-air bar drinking tequila while arguing books & politics until the sun comes up' list.
The story of the surprising rise and inevitable fall of the commune of Canudo out in the middle of the Bahia region is told from several perspectives and using painstaking detail.
Once again, Mario Vargas Llosa has delivered a marvelous piece of literature here and one can see why he deserved his Nobel in 2010.The narrative style is classic Vargas Llosa: different perspectives covering all sides of this particular conflict and putting it in its complex historical context.
Two rape victims become either lovers or married to their rapists and the other principal female character goes insane.
This is truly epic historic fiction
Practical EschatologyAt precisely the time that Fyodor Dostoevsky was writing of the Grand Inquisitor and his confrontation with a Jesus returned to the world (1879-80), the events he was fictionalising were playing themselves out in the scrublands of the Brazilian State of Bahia.
Who says history doesn’t repeat itself?Mario Vargas Llosa’s The War of the End of the World is a docu-fictional account of the so-called War of Canudos and the events leading to it from 1877 to 1897.
In Vargas Llosa’s account it doesn’t take much imagination to identify Antonio, The Counsellor, as Jesus; the revolutionary Scotsman, Galileo Gall, as St. Paul; the local administrative power, Baron de Canabrava, as Pilate; and the psycho-fanatic, Big Joao, as Judas.
It is a novelization of the War of Canudos conflict in late 19th-century Brazil.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه آوریل سال 2003 میلادیعنوان: جنگ آخر زمان؛ نویسنده: ماریو بارگاس یوسا؛ مترجم: عبدالله کوثری؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، نشر آگه؛ 1382؛ در 919 ص، شابک: 9643290131؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان پرویی سده 20 میوسا این کتاب را بلندپروازانه‌ ترین کاری که تاکنون انجام داده دانسته، و با همین برهان آنرا رمان برگزیده‌ ی خود می‌داند.
ایشان در این کتاب نه از پرو، کشور زادگاهش، سخن می‌گوید و نه از زندگی امروز، بلکه مکان داستان خود را برزیل قرار می‌دهد، و از ماجرایی سخن می‌گوید، که در سده نوزدهم میلادی رخ داده است.
Pajeu, with an ugly scar on his face, an angry, fierce Indian, that loved to mutilate his victim's noses and ears, a runaway slave, heartless Big John, who killed his owner's sister, a deformed man they call the Lion, who can read, reformed by Antonio, but the Republic is not happy, sending armies to crush what they fear is an attempt (wrongly), to restore the monarchy, one, two, three, four arrive, getting bigger and bigger each one, they're surprised that these peasants, fight so ferociously, why?
They are a rogue’s gallery, too, and include the “nearsighted journalist,” a character based on Euclides Da Cunha himself; the elderly Baron Canabrava, head of the (real) ousted monarchists; the newspaper owner and lethal republican, Gonçalves; Galileo Gall, a Scottish socialist, whose over-zealousness and lack of self-examination bring him to an ugly pass; the ex-slave, Big João, who ruthlessly slices his mistress to bits during a backlands excursion; Abbot João, formerly Satan João, Pajeú, Pedrão, and other murderous bandits turned upstanding Christians; the Vilanova brothers, itinerant merchants; the filicide Maria Quadrado; the Lion of Natuba, a literate, deformed young man who serves as the Counselor's scribe; and the entire Brazilian army -- a Tolstoyan dramatis personae if ever there was one.On the whole, the novel is an admirable endeavor.
Brazil has won its freedom from the monarchs of Portugal and is constructing its first civil government- with all the implements of the State which we take for granted now: marriage available for the first time outside of a church, a census to better know the nascent country's people and its needs, taxes to be paid for the creation of new roads and railways to better connect this country of nigh unfathomable size.
Hailed as his masterpiece, "War of the End of the World" is...
megadense.
The world of the fanatical Counselor versus the entire republic of Brazil is perhaps one of the most exciting and well-written war novels ever, on the same scale as "Gone with the Wind".
There are many flavors here, like in most of his other denser novels, & all of them are exceedingly palatable.
There are no "Green House" shenanigans here, nor some striking, postmodern edge, like that of "Aunt Julia." Again, M.V.L. impresses in his range and ambition-- the scope of this novel truly boggles the mind.
Welcome to Canudos!Perched on the crest of a deformed cactus, a black urubu scrutinizes the pilgrims who are walking painfully towards the entrance of this lost locality of the Brazilian Northeast, an agglomeration that has become the center of attention of the highest authorities in the country.Remembering "The Land of Carnival" by the late Jorge Amado , here I am back in the Bahian Backlands, this time with a Peruvian guide, Mario Vargas Llosa, and his novel "The War of the End of The World" published in 1981.
حرب نهاية العالم انتبهت إلى أنني في كل مرة أكتب فيها مراجعة لإحدى روايات يوسا، استفتح بالحديث عن فن الرواية وعظمته، هذا ما يفعله بنا يوسا في كل مرة، يأخذنا إلى الأعالي كصقر، ولا يعيدنا إلى الأرض إلا دائخين، نحاول أن نفهم كيف خضنا هذه الرحلة؟ ما هي الأداة التي استخدمها يوسا !!
ولكن من يظن وهو ينتهي من (حرب نهاية العالم) أنه قرأ رواية تاريخية فهو مخطئ، لقد أفلتت منه فلسفة يوسا الساخرة، التلطيخية، فكل شخص في الرواية قام يوسا بتلطيخه، فالمرشد يموت وهو يفرغ أمعائه ومدينته التي بشر بها تهدم فوق رؤوس أتباعه، ولا ملائكة تجيء لإنقاذهم، ويوسا بخبثه يجعل الأتباع يتذوقون ما جادت به أمعاء المرشد، الصغير المبارك هو من يخون معلمه في النهاية ويقدم جسده للجمهورية، الثائر غاليليو غال يموت على مشارف كانودوس بسبب اغتصابه زوجة دليل، يا لها من نهاية مخزية !!

Όταν ξεκίνησα να το διαβάζω δεν είχα καταλάβει οτι πρόκειται για ιστορικό μυθιστόρημα και δεν είχα ξ
چرا این کتاب رو خوندم؟قاعدتا خوندن کتابی با این حجم به یه تصمیم پیشین نیاز داره. اما خوندن این کتاب یه اتفاق بود برام. از سر بازیگوشی و کنجکاوی همیشگیم برای خوندن جملهی اول رمانها «در» کتاب رو باز کردم و خوندم:بلندبالا بود و چندان تکیده که انگار همیشه نیمرخش را میدیدی. پوستی تیره و اندامی استخوانی داشت، و آتشی هماره در چشمانش میسوختشمارو نمیدونم ولی من که با خوندن همین جملات (و با همین ترجمهی عالی که اگر نبود شاید این جملهها هم اینقدر قوت پیدا نمیکرد) صدای شلپ افتادنم رو تو گرداب این کتاب شنیدم.
تازه شروع کرده بودم به خوندن این رمان و ذهنم شدیدا درگیر روایت کتاب بود.
احساس می‌کنید دارید خیلی سریع می‌رید، ولی در حقیقت سرعت واقعی روایت مال جایی هست که پاهاتون رو اون‌جا گذاشتید؛ یعنی بخش بعدی که قراره بخونید.
هرچند که این رمان اون‌قدر خرده روایت دوس‌داشتنی و صدالبته گاهی هول‌ناک داره که حتی از دست دادن نقاط عطف رمان هم اون رو از قابلیت‌هاش خالی نمی‌کنهپاشنه‌ی آشیل کتابظاهرا چاره‌ای نیست که بپذیریم یوسا قلم توانمندی برای توصیف صحنه‌های پرازدحام نبرد نداره.
اما مخصوصا توی دو تا نبرد اول، توصیف نزدیک صحنه‌های نبرد به قوت صحنه‌های نبرد جنگ و صلح نبوده و این ذاتا تقصیر یوسا نیست.
بل هي كالدوامة التي تجذبك فلا تفلتك.تنويه: هي رواية تستند إلى أحداث واقعية، لكنها ليست تاريخية جامدة أو سياسية معقدة، بل هي حكاية مسلية أيضاً ولا تخلو من لمسات الواقعية السحرية؛ الأحداث حماسية للغاية.ملاحظة: الشخصيات مرسومة ببراعة منقطعة النظير.
It is clear that this is a writer of the first order, though I do not know (I doubt, actually) that the voice is representative of Vargas Llosa's other works.
But the issue is resolved too early, with the result that the book becomes, in my opinion, *much* too long, and (as a result of this early resolution) veers even into melodrama.
While the characters are drawn with great sympathy and with nuance, I can not fully empathize with their vision.But that said, it is still the length and tedium and melodrama of a writer, as I've said, of the first order.
ملحمة يوسا التي لا أدري لماذا تأخرت ترجمتها العربية حتى هذا العام!
إذا كانت " مئة عام من العزلة " هي مفخرة ماركيز فلا بد أن تكون هذه الرواية هي ما يتباهى بها يوسا.
الرواية على مستوى سردي عظيم و محترف لأبعد درجةو ذلك لأن ال 700 صفحة مليئة بالأحداث التي لم تختل في أي فصل و من غير ملل و تمضي الرواية من فم إلى آخر في تقاطع هندسي فظيع.
كتاب و جذابي بود تقريبا ٧ روزه تمامش كردم،شروع داستان برام جذاب نبود و به نظرم سخت خوان بود اما بعد 
على الرغم من أن مسألة الاغتراب السياسي ، الصراعات السياسية في أدب أمريكا اللاتينية هو المنطلق الذي تنطلق منه أغلب الحكايات إلا إن خوض هذا المعترك في البرازيل أبان ثورته الدينية تحديدا أضاف ميزة وتشويقا لمميزات هذه الرواية كون القصة مادة خام والمكان كشواطىء عذراء والحكاية لم تلكها ألسنة الأدباء إلى جانب الحاجة الشديدة في خوض مثل هذا الموضوع لذهن متمرس وباحث ملم بتاريخ المكان والسياسة والإجتماع والحب ربما ومن لكل هذا غير يوسا خاصة وأن الوضع السياسي السائد والتعصب الديني بيئة جيدة وخصبة لبناء رواية ..
At the end of the nineteenth century a rebellion broke out in the back lands of Bahia, Brazil.The rebels who are poor people, bandits, people of uncertain ethnicity, former slaves, impoverished settlers, disabled, all inspired by a charismatic religious leader and thoroughly alienated from the new Republic, were inspired by the hope that Dom Sebastian, the Portuguese King who had died in Morocco in the sixteenth century, would like a King Arthur return to rule over them, were eventually utterly crushed by the army after years of resistance (view spoiler)[ sorry about the spoiler, if you're still following this in the papers (hide spoiler)].The novel tracks the rebellion from its inception to its aftermath through a variety of point of view characters.
Best not to dwell here.¡Alabado sea la verdad!This is the retelling of the war of the Canudos in the Salvador-Bahía area of Brazil.Around the late 1870s a messianic-like figure, Antonio Counselheiro (The Counsellor) preaches the second-coming, attracting a following of disciples and stirs up a rejection of the Brazilian state: no civil marriages, abandoning using the state currency and horrors, rejects the metric system.
The Barón Cañabrava is a wicked character, sleeping with his maid and hints at returning the monarchy while Galileo Gall, at first seems like the good guy, but turns out to being used.
Ma questo elemento, se inizialmente ostico, è anche la chiave per cui a poco a poco il romanzo si dilata in una dimensione di eccezionale valenza (in un “albero di storie” come dice la frase che ho riportato nel titolo) quando tutti gli attori di questa immensa tragedia sono debitamente connotati e le passioni, la forza, il coraggio ma anche la debolezza di ognuno acquisisce significato universale.
This is a historical novel based on the peasant revolt that took place in Brazil in the late 19th century when a renegade priest and his followers took over an abandoned estate in Canudos and established a community that refused to recognize the authority of the newly established republic, the old catholic church or civil marriages.
This priest who they called The Counselor, talked to all with dignity and in the eyes of the peasants became a saint that they loved, protected and followed as he led.This was a time when the new republic was still on shaky footing with the large landowners, who were mostly Monarchists, still in opposition to the new government.
The War of the End of the World is, after The Feast of the Goat, only the second the second Mario Vargas Llosa novel I have read.
The novel begins with a short section that introduces readers to the Counsellor and his activities around the time he started attracting diciples.
The reader starts counting how many pages remain until the finish, but feels no closer to the end by the days reading.
Just know what you may be getting yourself into.Toward the end of the novel, Vargas Llosa has a character recount a discussion between two individuals discussing the events in Canudos.
To his followers, the Counselor is someone sent by God ("Blessed be Jesus the Counselor!") as he performs miraculous conversions of men: the most hardened criminals repent of their ways, the downtrodden get comfort, hope is received by those who knew nothing but scorn, fear, hatred, hunger and crimes all their lives.The POLITICS: apparently, the Mexican Republic was still new then.
There was really that place called Canudos where the Counselor and his followers established their own city.The men of the Republic looked at Canudos and the Counselor with alarm.
If you think the Anti-Christ is the Catholic Church and The Government, and if you're also convinced Heaven on Earth is free-love, no-taxes, do-your-own-thing, well, you might like the message enough to rave about this one.
Because Heaven on Earth is populated with all the outcasts, including one who chopped his mistress to pieces.Lack of sympathetic characters is another problem, as you might deduce already.
Worse yet, the lady learns to like it.I tend to get a sore head after so much repeated hammering of message.
Guess the gold NOBEL PRIZE WINNER affixed to my copy of the book reminds me how political THAT award can be, too.
Another tale of mayhem, history and the macabre from Vargas Llosa.
Whereas Death in the Andes was compared to a Diane Arbus styled portrait the visual artists this book evokes is Heiryonmous Bosch or Breughal.
A medieval meets the wild west landscape(turn of the century Brazil) of prophets, bandits, water witches, droughts, a storytelling dwarf, flagellants, miracle healers, madmen, plagues, vultures, rats, a revolutionary phrenologist, pariah dogs, Barons whose time has past, circus freaks, a utopian colony, and marauding destructive army.
Festooned with grotesques and corpses this is a book of violence and horror but it is a conflation of real history and not fiction.
Con questo grandioso romanzo epico, Vargas Llosa narra un tragico fatto storico che sconvolse il Brasile di fine Ottocento, la lotta intrapresa dagli abitanti di un dimenticato paese del nord est brasiliano, Canudos, sotto la guida del mistico Antonio il Consigliere, una di quelle figure che nascono solo nell’America del Sud, un predicatore solitario, un misto di fanatismo religioso e utopia politica, nei confronti della neonata Repubblica Brasiliana, negli ultimi anni del secolo diciannovesimo.
E Vargas Llosa descrive, con dovizia di avvenimenti e personaggi, le fasi di questa guerra fino a quella finale della scomparsa totale di Canudos, rasa al suolo, che sopravviverà tuttavia nella storia brasiliana e in generale sudamericana come una città mitica, il mito della lotta per la libertà e l’uguaglianza.
Ma tu la conosci Canudos?  Se la risposta è no, si può subito rimediare leggendo il bellissimo libro di Mario Vargas Llosa. Non fatevi spaventare né dalla mole né, soprattutto, dai caratteri minuscoli dell’Edizione Einaudi. Una volta immersi nella lettura le pagine, dense e corpose, volano e noi con loro nello spazio e nel tempo per raggiungere questo angolo del Nordest del Brasile, diverso dall’iconografia stereotipata di mare, sole e divertimento. Ci ritroviamo alla fine del XIX secolo in un
Ci ritroviamo alla fine del XIX secolo in un paesaggio aspro e poco ospitale, dove il caldo, la siccità e la vegetazione creano condizioni difficili per gli uomini e rendono ancora più evidente (e stonato) il divario tra coloro che sono ricchi e potenti e quelli che, praticamente proprietà dei primi (anche se ufficialmente la schiavitù è stata abolita), vivono in condizioni di estrema povertà.
Per una serie di ragioni (istituzione del matrimonio civile, imposizione fiscale obbligatoria, raccolta dei dati a fini censuari), Antonio il Consigliere afferma che il Cane (cioè Satana) si è incarnato nella Repubblica: insieme ai suoi seguaci si ritira quindi in un’enclave, Canudos appunto, dove non vige la legge diabolica della Repubblica ma quella santa della defunta monarchia.


It has the massive cast and sprawl of War & Peace, and an apocalyptic feel that reminded me of - oh shut up - The Stand.
It took me longer to read than I thought it would.
I thought it would be fun to read a Latin American author while on vacation in Mexico, but reading these epic scenes of slaughter and carnage in front of a pool with men in starched uniforms offering me daquiris and Bob Marley blaring tinnily behind me felt frankly gross.Which reminds me, I should warn you: this isn´t for the faint of heart.
