https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1088623.The_Mystery_of_the_Missing_Necklace
The story opens with Pip and Bets getting bored in their summer holidays, with the others at the seaside with their parents (they themselves have also been but have been back home for a few weeks now) and no mystery to solve.
The children return soon and find Mr Goon busy at work with clearly a new case to solve which they have no clue about.
This was a proper “meaty” mystery with plenty going on, clues and suspects, secret messages, a gang of thieves, and a stolen necklace, with poor Goon managing to do a good job, with part of the case at least.
they get told not to solve the mystey but they do it any way
I liked this Book very much and I rate it five star. recommend others to read the series of find outers by Enid Blyton.
it was very exciting and I loved it.😍😃😻😺
Just a guilty pleasure, rereading after around 10 years 🥰
It is an amazing book and I liked it because I love reading mysteries.It lends a great friendship vibe and talks about how children are more active and have more ideas running through their minds.
Another character is Pip Hilton and he is Smart, mean and demanding Because he is a bit selfish and not caring for other people but his uses his mind for good plots.
The gang members at the meeting tied him gaged him and locked him in a cupboard.•	Larry Watson rescues Fredrick and calls the police and tells them that the necklace is with the gangsters •	The police notice that one gang member with odd eyes escaped and the necklace they found from the gang was a cheap necklace•	Fredrick disguises as the balloon woman but this time the old man give him a message that says necklace in waxworks •	Then Larry found the necklace on Queen Elizabeth’s waxwork’s neck.
I don't know whether Enid Blyton realised that the gang weren't coming across too well, but she did manage to turn the tables on Goon by the end by having him behave irresponsibly when he witnesses the capture of Fatty, and then make a complete hash of tailing the man with odd eyes.
Fatty also cycles off after the man, away from the missing pearls, which are obviously in the place this character has been 'looking in and out of all day' (waiting for the crowds to die down, of course) - and the children could even have found this out sooner, if they'd thought about why a go-between would be 'just messing about in the dirt' with a stick when someone has come to receive a message from him.Why, then, am I not giving this book only one star?
Kisah dari Pasukan Mau Tahu saat ini agak-agak gimana ya....:) Karena mereka harus mengetahui para Pencuri yang sudah sangat berpengalaman dan harus mengetahui dimana kalung berlian yang disembunyikan oleh para pencuri.Cerita dimulai dari keisengan Fatty yang suka memiliki ide-ide kreatif yang kadang terlihat aneh.
Hingga sampailah dihari, Fatty melakukan penyaraman dan Pasukan Mau Tahu lainnya berusaha untuk mencari dia dan hasilnya mereka menyerah karena mereka kalah/ tidak berhasil menemukan, tetapi Bets, teman yang paling kecil dan paling mengaggumi Fatty mengingkan sebuah balon yang dijual oleh seorang ibu Tua yang tidak lain adalah Fatty.
Terkhusus untuk Fatty yang mencoba melakukan penyamaran menjadi seorang Bapak Tua yang menjadi sarana informasi bagi para pencuri sebelum beraksi.Dan bagaimana akhir kasus ini?
Fatty is a boy whom would disguises well as another person, so that he could solve cases and no one could eventually find out his real identity when he is disguised as a old woman selling balloons and his friends could not even recognised him and bought balloons from him.
The other tmes were he has disguised as a old man and studied on a case where people are selling drugs.
One of the accomplice had accidentally hand him the piece of paper with the venue of the place for selling drugs and eventually, he solved another case.
Most of the children would fight over these books.The books are based on a group of 5 children and a dog who go on adventures/mystery hunting during the School holidays, much to the displeasure of the local policeman, Mr Goon.
They usually find that they can quite easily solve the mystery because most adults either don’t take children seriously or are not mindful of what they are saying in front of children.
Once the children realise there is a possibility that the necklace and the thief may be in their town they set out trying to uncover the criminals.
The children then race to solve the mystery before the local policeman.
Well, things have got a little irritating in this book.This time kids actually interfere and try to hide evidence from detectives, because they want to solve the crime first.
Also, kids are overconfident all the time, not thinking about real danger.I didn't like the fact that Daisy has almost no role and no voice in the books.
Pip commands over Betsy, Larry is sure girls are too stupid to solve the disguise puzzle.
But eventually it's Frederic and Betsy who do all the work.Overall, this book is kind of same as each one in a series.
Ah, a world without technology.
No feeling that you have to record, sort review and share all the books you've ever read.
(Mind you, Fatty would have loved the internet).
I AM enjoying re-reading these books that I loved in my childhood.Worrying that I don't remember one single line from this book (but it was 40 years ago).
A maid, a cook, a gardener, money to buy ices, rarely seen parents, no technology and few choices.In this one I like the reference to the wax work as 'Queen Elizabeth' (no regnal number required in the 1940s, throws the modern reader).
Pretty rubbish Blyton outing with the Five Find Outers. Obsessed with "Fatty' disguising himself, and rather than solving a crime it was all about defeating the local police officer, who is ridiculed throughout. The mystery itself is almost an afterthought and this is one of her weakest efforts.All of the above is fairly true but a couple of years on and with the benefit of reading all the books in order I have been more lenient, although the Kids Vs Copper drivel does irritate, and the relationship between Fatty and Bets does fascinate.
Blytonia pojalle -projekti on edennyt kolmanteen kirjaan asti. Kadonneen kaulakorun salaisuudessa etsitään jalokiviä ja arvoesineitä vohkivaa varaskoplaa, jonka yhteysmiehenä tuntuu toimivan jatkuvasti puiston tietyllä penkillä istuva vanhus. Juoni oli tällä kertaa edellistä lukaami (Kadonneen kissan salaisuus) huomattavasti parempi. Etenkin vahakabinettikohtaus oli oikein hersyvä. Pojalle upposi jälleen oikein hyvin... taidan kuitenkin seuraavaksi kokeilla Viisikkoja.
salah satu alesan gw suka PMT adalah karena banyak adegan2 di restoran/kedainya, di mana Fatty sering mentraktir anggota PMT yg laen. walopun itu makanan Inggris, tetep aja bikin ngiler hehehehe....PMT adalah judul pertama yg gw punya dr buku2 karangan Enid, dan lgsg bikin gw jatuh cinta skaligus jd addict bgt sm buku2nya Enid yg laen!
The first book I read in any series is always the best and this was no exception. Bored one day aged 9 and with nothing to read, my sister suggested "The Mystery of the Missing Eggcup" [sic] which turned out to be a great introduction to these stories and possibly the nicest thing my sister had ever done for me. Invokes endless summer holidays and great fun all the way through.
Utter bilge - characterisation, credibility and general sense have all gone completely out of the window! This is one of those Blyton books where everything is geared towards bringing to life one single idea that Enid obviously thought was brilliant (Fatty disguising himself as a waxwork, in this case) and the setup is so unimportant to the author that it fails to ring true on any level.
Akan selalu ada soft spot bagi saya untuk para anggota Pasukan Mau Tahu. Pip, Beth, Larry, Daisy, dan Fatty barangkali yang sudah menemani saya semasa kecil, tetapi mereka masih terus berumur dua belas tahun, sementara saya akan terus bertambah tua. Meski demikian, saya tidak akan pernah melupakan mereka.
fatty disguises himself as the old balloon women and then the old man. they receive a message. he then disguises himself as a waxwork of napoleon and spot the necklace in the waxworks hall on queen elibezeth's neck.
one of Blyton's best work....
Ini lucu! Ternyata kalung yang dicari-cari dipakaikan ke leher sebuah patung! Siapa yang menyangka?
I like it because of Mr Goon's new angry catchphrase " GAH ! "
My review is....there are many clever burglaries going on and it is suspected that members of the gang have their meeting place....The Five-Outers naturally determine to solve these mysteries......
Waar de vermommingen van Dikky een hoofdrol spelen. Betty blijkt de beste detective. Goon geeft blijk van verstand. Weinig diepgang.
Nothing beats a bit of Enid Blyton :)
Reading the childhood favourites once again :)
good book liked it like I liked all the other 1s
Väliluettavaa taas kerran. Pienempänä näitä ja Viisikkoja tuli ahmittua oikein olan takaa. Ihan hauskoja kirjoja edelleen, vaikka kirjat osaa ulkoa etuperin ja takaperin.
