https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18901372-the-witness-for-the-prosecution
A gold-digging man is accused of murdering a wealthy old woman who took a shine to him.
This writer - Agatha bloody Christie!
- always makes me feel like a fool and I love it!
I thought I knew where the story was headed, just like I do with every Agatha Christie story I read, and then old Aggie pulls the rug out from under me with that terrific final twist.
And, like most twists, it seems so obvious in retrospect but there lies the genius.
Dame Agatha the Queen of Crime strikes again!
Agatha Christie never disappoints, even in her short stories, as evident from this amazing short tale, The Witness for the Prosecution.
In the murder of a wealthy older lady comes forth a shocking and surprising turn of events, and it's the powerful characters who bring everything to life vividly.
It's difficult to write reviews on short stories without spoilers, but I will say that this story is definitely a compelling mystery and a fast read for anyone who loves short tales of suspense.
With beautiful language and careful words, Christie takes a strange tale of crime and corruption and gives it an extra splash of eerie charm.
Review tonight, honest :)So I watched the recent (last year ?) TV adaptation starring Toby Jones as John Mayhew, having NOT previously read this short story and quite enjoyed it.
Having just read this short story for the first time, I am astonished that the program I watched is even the same story.
Maybe that's an exaggeration, but they certainly padded the TV program which was 2 hours long (without adverts).
But thats TV for you.All of that said, the short story is very clever with a real twist (NOT a spoiler as lot of Christie's books contain twists), which was also in the TV adaptation.
Oh, that Agatha Christie is one clever, clever girl! Loved it as usual.
I took a break from Christie’s Hercules Poirot novels to listen to Christopher Lee read this Christie short story.
I have read some of her stories, but had made the decision not to read all of her Poirot short stories in addition to her novels.
But after reading dozens of these often overlong novels in a row, where you sift through what you know to be more than 200 pages of red herrings, well, sometimes it’s time for a short story, eh?
This one, “Witness for the Prosecution,” is one of her best known, and best, I think, though Christie didn’t like the ending, so she changed it when she adapted it for the stage.
Wait...what?! Dang it! I've been duped again!A man accused of murdering an old woman for her money must rely upon his wife to set him free. Seems simple enough until it's discovered that the wife is not so reliable. This is one of those stories that plays well with modern readers with its twists aplenty. Highly recommended for all, especially mystery lovers looking for a quick fix!
Long ago, as this is a very old book, this was made into a Billy Wilder film and remains one of my favorites to this day.
I found this short available as a 52 minute audio book and couldn't resist it.
Well worth an hour or so of anyone's time, I highly recommend this, particularly if you like old films, courtroom dramas, and/or Ms. Christie.
The film is available on youtube and probably as a free ebook pdf, but I haven't verified the quality of either.
The audio book was excellent.
The Witness for the Prosecution is an interesting murder-mystery short story written by queen of mystery.
This short story unfolds in the manner of a prosecution for murder.
The solicitor for the defense is the key figure who collects evidence to prove the innocence of his client.
Amidst the damaging evidence by the victim's made and the wife of the accused, he believes in his innocence.
However the end, although favourable to the solicitor, leaves him completely stunned and so are the readers!The plot twist of the story left me quite stupefied.
The story although short was powerfully written and well executed without betraying the mystery till the end.
Probably best known for the 1957 Oscar-winning film it produced, Agatha Christie’s Witness for the Prosecution is fine in its own right, a short story that packs quite a punch.
There’s also a little misdirection carefully placed by Christie towards the conclusion that, to me, make the mystery and ultimate unraveling of events that much more clever and impressive.
The story builds up to the trial, but things get a little off the track when an unexpected witness turns up.
Witness for the Prosecution is a fine example of Christie’s skill and mastery at mystery in short story form.
I think it's one of my reading resolutions this year that I will be able to brag that I figured out an AC mystery before the big reveal. However, it won't be today! In this stand alone short story, a young man stands accused of killing an older woman and his lawyer truly believes in his innocence. I won't say anymore except that the score so far is AC 3 versus Me 0.
Accidentally read November's classics group short story for Oct. I liked this. I'm surprised this take on a witness hasn't been used more in literature and film.
This was my first Agatha Christie story (not including television adaptations) and I really, really enjoyed it. I've been meaning to read some Christie for years and, now I've finally got around to it, I wish I hadn't waited so long! I'll definitely be reading some more soon.
This was fantastic! I have never read a Christie book, but I might do so now. In something like 30 pages or so, she threw in at least 2 plot twists. In the end, I knew where this was going, but it didn’t make it any less fun to read. Also, all these years later, I’m wondering why current authors are taking the lazy way out — “alcoholic woman in a bad marriage who has frequent blackouts” will never be better than the plot device I just read here and am not sure I have ever read before.
This was such a fun little read really entetainging I loved the story and oh my god that ending HAHA i love agatha Christie 💕

Oh my gosh! I just finished reading (found a PDF version on-line). That was really good -- and I love the twist of just those last three words!! I have read several of Christie's books and love her writing style and a good twist at the end :)
The version I listened to was a BBC audio play, dramatised by Bill Morris.This story is about a man who is accused of the murder of an older lady that he has befriended to benefit from her recently changed will.
I only worked it out very late on because I am a dullard :) The version I listened to had some excellent actors providing the voice talent, including Hywel Bennett and Miriam Margolyes.
Please note that this is a short story, running time approximately 30 minutes.
Added 4/23/17. I did not read this story but watched the movie adaptation instead."Witness for the Prosecution" is a play adapted by Agatha Christie from her short story. The play opened in London on 28 October 1953."https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Witness...On 4/23/17, I watched the film adaptation On TCM-TV. It was terrific! I had never seen it before. Charles Laughton was superb!"Witness for the Prosecution" (1957)http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0051201/?..."A veteran British barrister must defend his client in a murder trial that has surprise after surprise."Stars: Tyrone Power, Marlene Dietrich, Charles Laughton, Elsa Lanchester.
My copy of this book is found in this anthology: The Witness for the Prosecution and Other StoriesBen Affleck to direct and star in film. Release date: TBD
A tight, twist-and-turn short story, exquisitely paced to maximise the reader's enjoyment. It's been a while since I read a text so unencumbered by superfluities or literary fancies. Sometimes that's exactly what's needed. Will proceed to read more of the same.
A great short story by Agatha Christie. I didn't realize how short it was when I started it because I have it in a book with some other Agatha Christie stories. I was sad when it ended so quickly. It was a fun, quick read with a surprising ending!
This short story was narrated by Christopher Lee and was just 51 minutes (40 pages) long.I liked how this story was almost told from the point where mystery novels usually end; the fact that the murder had already taken place and someone accused was an interesting perspective. It read more like a court drama than a traditional crime story, though there were elements of detective fiction in there. Overall I think that this was a great mystery with a wonderful twist at the end and, though it is a little short, I would recommend it on audiobook.
Oh, that was very tricky. Very tricky, indeed. Great little story, wonderfully performed by the marvelous Christopher Lee. Too short to say anything about without leaking spoilers. But just read it (or listen to it like I did). So very sneaky.
Such a wonderfully twisted novella -- that Agatha Christie sure knew how to write!
A lovely little taster of Agatha Christie’s mysteries. I even like how at one point she wrote, “the place of their meeting is not relevant”, like she’s saving time writing the usual connectors & just getting on with the plot development. This was good fun to read.
Rather predictable but with Christie I always think this is because her plots and methods were innovative when first written and then copied by others ad infinitum.
Tightly plotted engaging mystery.
I've never read this one before although I've seen the 1957 movie several times. This is one of the few times I like the movie better.
Listened to this on audio, read by Christopher Lee, who was so good I kept having to remind myself it was just the one guy.Short, sweet, amazing twists. Of course I went back to the beginning to see if she'd told me the trick of it at the beginning--of course she had.
Omg. Was gonna give this 3.5 stars but that ENDING! I loved Romanie, she was such a badass sassy amazing character.
