https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/743210.The_Adventure_of_the_Illustrious_Client
It would seem that General de Merville’s young daughter Violet has fallen madly in love with the sadistic Austrian Baron Adelbert Gruner, whom both Damery and Holmes are convinced is a murderer.
The victim was his late wife, though he was acquitted due to a legal technicality and a witness’s untimely death.However, Violet has a very strong will, and will not hear a word spoken against the Baron.
Holmes also finds out from Damery that the Baron has expensive tastes, is a collector, and a recognised authority on Chinese pottery.
Noooo! It can't end like this! Did she leave him? Did he recovered from that attack? What about Kitty and her punishment? I NEED ANSWERS!!!!
The first short story in The Case Book of Sherlock Holmes by Arthur Conan Doyle. A woman falls for a dangerous man. Sherlock Holmes' client feels the relationship will ultimately end in abuse or death for the woman, so Sherlock investigates. Entertaining and interesting.
Relationship is strange. Actual rating 3.5 stars
Very well-written.Though I had to look up for some perspectives a bit of who "the Client" is from Quora.
General de Merville's young daughter Violet has fallen in love with the roguish and sadistic Austrian Baron Adelbert Gruner, whom Damery and Holmes are convinced is a shameless philanderer and a murderer.
Kitty tells Holmes that the Baron "collects women" and chronicles his conquests in a book.
Holmes realizes that this book, written in Gruner's own hand, is the key to curing Violet of her devotion to the scoundrel.
Kitty tells Holmes that this book is kept in the Baron's study.
Holmes knows that Gruner will take his incriminating book with him, never daring to leave it behind in his study.
There is no murder in this one. Instead, Holmes must stop a woman from marrying a rogueish man. They fear the impending marriage will result in abuse or death for the wife, but she is smitten and charmed by her fiancé.
I really enjoyed this story. It was very well written and an entertaining read. The only reason I didn't give it 5 stars is simply because the ending was rather rushed and slightly unclear. However, I would recommend it to anyone.
The Adventure of the Illustrious Client is a true gem in the Holmes collection. Boasting a diverse story with developed characters and a very interesting story, the adventure proves to be an extremely enjoyable and very unique one. A definite must read for any fan of Doyle's!
It was nice, different but not that amazing.
Geen mysterie, toch wat teleurstellend verhaal.
Personally I loved it. I've always been a fan of detectives, and waiting for the new season of Sherlock has given me a good chance to start reading the classic versions of the stories.
Lombroso would have been proud, which isn't very good. Despite this, I recommend the story and foremost the televised Granada version of it, starring the singular Jeremy Brett as Holmes.
Pretty OK but not as good as A Study in Scarlet.
never trust the heart, It's Decivfull ABOVE all things !!
