https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40605956-elizabeth-the-queen
But even during the peak of royal coverage, Queen Elizabeth was of no interest to me, and I don’t think I could have told you one basic thing about her, until I saw the movie- ‘The Queen’ starring Helen Mirren, which I watched only because I wanted to see Helen’s acting performance.
Queen Elizabeth has led a most extraordinary life and for someone like myself who has never really paid all that much attention to the royal family, I found her to be an incredibly interesting person and this book only deepened my respect for her.
Imagine my shock when my test showed I was only 47% Italian with a smattering of other regions including 11% Great Britain.
I realize 11% is not a great deal and though I knew there was a chance I had some British ancestry, I was surprised it was that much.
I’m certain there are many that wouldn’t find much new here but for me, I learned a great deal.
Elizabeth II is a far warmer person than I would have imagined, a woman of stalwart character who has a life long fondness for horses and a love for family and country.
I’m proud to have 11% Great Britain Ethnicity.
Hands down the most comprehensive, well-researched and interesting biography I have ever come across.
As an Anglophile and a royal watcher fascinated by the history of the monarchy, I was keen to read this book especially after it was recommended to me by two friends I trust.The portrait drawn here is of a mighty remarkable woman, one who was called to the throne early in life, but who assumed her role with dignity, grace and more pluck than most credit her with.
Five stars for a treasure trove of information, but settled at four for the more than occasional lapses into minutiae.
I especially enjoyed the stories that were similar to scenes from the show "The Crown." After finishing the book I have more admiration for Elizabeth's dignified leadership and a better appreciation of the role that she plays.
(To be specific, this was when DJT was threatening to start a nuclear war with North Korea and he had made supportive comments about neo-Nazis and white supremacists.)So after finishing this biography about the dignified and gracious queen, I was curious if it's too late for America to rejoin the British Commonwealth.
Asking for a friend.Meaningful Quote"In her epic life, the Queen has played her part like a great actress — the only person about whom it can truly be said that all the world is a stage.
This was a fantastic portrait of perhaps the most constant, consistent persona of the 20th and early 21st centuries. Especially now, as we follow the Queen into her nineties (and minimal signs of slowing down, as with her eighties), it's mind-boggling to think of all the people she has come in contact with and all the policies she's had a hand in advising. I'd love to see an updated edition in a year or so to include William and Kate's kids and Harry & Meghan's wedding. Back to rewatching The Crown I go.
Just awful, if an author is going to propose a biography of a well known figure, at least have the courage to acknowledge a bias or predisposition to a certain viewpoint.
This so-called biography is laughable.
Somehow the author knows what Princess Diana's children and Tony Blair were thinking and their thoughts always paint Diana in the worst light possible.
I think that listening to the audio version allowed me to pick up much more than I normally would have through reading.The beginning of the book sped along well with the Queen a picture of perfection and duty.
A very detailed biography that gives one the feeling that the author cobbled together multiple People magazine articles.
Prince Charles comes off as a misguided but lovable dweeb; while Diana is villified.
I am not saying that Diana did not have problems and was not a manipulative person, but everyone comes off as well meaning in this book but her.
The author's treatment of the U.S. is also ridiculously glowing.
To hear this author tell it, Elizabeth is uncritically enamoured of the U.S. Altogether a one sided and uncritical treatment of Elizabeth that is written in wooden prose.
She is aware of her status and how it can make people nervous, then she goes and calms them down some by making herself seem approachable.Basically, Sally Bedell Smith paints Queen Elizabeth II in the best possible light.
Smith just brushes over the things that could paint the current Queen in a bad light, which didn't make it good.
While this was a good book, I think it would have been better if written by someone who is British, who wouldn't paint over those little things.This is basically for an audience who has no idea of the Queen's life and who is coming at this as a foreigner.
What happened to the c/c bracelet that Charles had for Camilla right before he was married to Diana?
It is a proven fact that Charles carried on a relationship with Camilla throughout the marriage, Smith skipped over the part where while being interviewed on tv said he never loved Diana?
I think Diana got a really bad rap in this book albeit she was not a completely innocent party.As for Prince Phillip, his philandering has also been well documented.As this book is written, the Queen is fascinating although a lot of the pomp and circumstance is ridiculous and should have been done away with a long time ago.In the books favor, it was interesting to glimpse a private view of the Queen, the Queen Mum, Winston Churchill.BTW all US presidents were mentioned with the exception of Jimmy Carter, whats that about???
Sally Bedell Smith brings us inside the palace doors and into the Queen’s daily routines—the “red boxes” of documents she reviews each day, the weekly meetings she has had with twelve prime ministers, her physically demanding tours abroad, and the constant scrutiny of the press—as well as her personal relationships: with Prince Philip, her husband of sixty-four years and the love of her life; her children and their often-disastrous marriages; her grandchildren and friends.It seems fitting that this should be the currently-reading book as Elizabeth II becomes the longest reigning monarch in British history.Positive skewed spin in action, a chocolate box of surface gen, this only deserved the barest of skim reads.
I am an unashamed royalist and anglophile. I have read quite a few histories and biographies of twentieth century English history. If I had not done so much reading, I probably would have enjoyed this book more.This is a superficial handling of the subject. It is a popular biography. It is also biased. I would not recommend this book to anyone seriously interested in anything other than entertainment.
From the first page it becomes obvious that this a well-researched work filled with anecdotes that provide an opportunity to understand how she has managed to be a daughter, a sister, a wife, a mother and grandmother as well as a monarch.The abdication of King Edward VIII eventually led to a child called Lilibet to become  Queen Elizabeth II at age twenty-five.
The author provides a chronological timeline of the Queen’s personal life and her role as the monarch.
The one constant that is repeatedthroughout the book is that Queen Elizabeth II has reigned with grace and integrity for sixty years.
How the Queen and her family were affected, how she responded and how she influenced the thinking and decisions of other world leaders makes for fascinating reading.There is at least as much political information as personal here, which may not appeal to readers who are only interested in learning about her private life.
And it's not all duty and formality; there are a lot of funny moments that show the Queen's sense of humour and provide some comic relief in the midst of stories about war, terrorist attacks and family crises.A very nice addition to the book are the two sections, 32 pages in all, of photographs.
This is a book that is unapologetically PRO-Queen, or royalist, monarchist or as Dame Helen Mirren said "Queenist".
This is also a fairly long book that is best read in small bits.
The author does a great job of juxtaposing what is going on in England, the UK and the world with the details of Elizabeth II's reign.
We get to meet her Prime Ministers, her advisors, her friends.
It is hard to believe that while there have been 10 Presidents, 6 James Bonds and 3 spidermen there has only been one Queen of England in my entire life.
I enjoyed reading it, but was frankly...a little boring.The author interviewed many people with numerous anecdotes, all of which portrayed the Queen as smart, admirably devoted and loving at all times, but there was no analysis and nary a controversial word.
Elizabeth has been one of the longest reigning monarchs in British history, during a time of enormous global change.
But this book is chock full of trivial detail and fluffy anecdotes.
There is nothing about Diana and Fergie that you couldn't have read in People magazine,and not more than a few pages about Maggie Thatcher, which should have been great history.
I really, REALLY enjoyed this book!
I was lucky enough to get an advanced reader copy.
I found myself unable to put it down.
It was a very easy read and you come away with a real sense of who the Queen is.
Not an easy feat, I'm sure.
You see both her public and hints of her private persona, along with her strengths and weaknesses.
There is a lot to admire about her.Smith also does a great job writing for an American audience, who might not be as knowledgable about some of the inner workings of the British system.
I can't wait to read it again!
A good bit of the material about the middle part of her life was new to me, and quite interesting.
Some of the later stuff felt ripped from the headlines: Diana, Fergie, William & Kate, etc.The author doesn't hesitate to express her person opinions: for instance, it's obvious that she admires Margaret Thatcher, and that she blames the Diana fiasco largely on Diana's mental illness and general unsuitability for her position.The book does a good job of portraying the Queen's professionalism.
She didn't choose her profession, but she has done perhaps the best job that anyone could in that position.The cover photograph is a beautiful one, but I think it's hardly recognizable as the Queen.
(But at the same time, Smith considers the Conservatives "elitist" (Loc. 1995), so I'm confused.) Also, my inner "healthy at every size" feminist cringed in a number of places:1) For the Queen-Thatcher relationship, Smith writes, "Both women had trouble discussing their feelings, which prevented them from venturing into personal topics that might have formed a bond--the push and pull of combining professional life and motherhood, and the challenges of having a husband in a subordinate position." (Loc. 4684-4687) While understanding that the 1980s had different gender codes than today, I can't imagine Smith writing this about two men, say George VI and Churchill.
If you're looking for a balanced and even handed review of Elizabeth II's reign, this book isn't it. It was so blatantly pro-monarchy, and so blindly partisan towards the Queen that even I found it too much to bear. And how the author dealt with Diana (and all the royal brides, frankly) was awful. A large investment of time and not near enough return.
Watching The Crown on Netflix compelled me to read more about Queen Elizabeth II. An informative and intriguing read.
Naw, all was perfect in front of adoring crowds as per Bedell Smith.One can also see how biased the book is in all mention of Lady Diana aspects.
Then in the next chapter Ms. Bedell Smith has to admit Lady Diana might have had cause to complain at that time and might have told the truth - since Charles admitted his affair with Camilla it's a bit difficult to deny - but then Ms Bedell Smith finds the way again to blame Lady Diana for turning around and trying to find love elsewhere.
Really no "news" at all, even though Smith does a few laps around the "Diana was really troubled" racetrack, and while she does her darndest to make Charles sound like less of a tool, better writers than she have tried and failed.
Philip comes across a bit better than usual, but everyone else in Elizabeth II's family are portrayed strictly as cardboard figures.
Diana was jailbait who forced Charles to marry her (I know), Fergie was just a big dumb good-hearted girl but the kids couldn't make it work, and Mark Phillips --- well, who remembers Mark Philips other than Zara and Peter?
I have a not so secret passion for monarchies, so when I read the excerpt of Elizabeth the Queen in Vanity Fair, I knew that it was time to indulge.
She is undeniably sympathetic to the Queen, and at times maybe a little too respectful of her subject (I got the sense she is conscious of the trust people put in her by giving her wider access to the sources of the book, and her determination not to betray that trust by writing anything that could be deemed inappropriate or uncharitable), but that strengthens, rather than hinders the quality of the narrative.
After you read Bedell's wonderful book, you probably will too.
But you do get a more personal look at the way the British Monarchy works, a solid overview of Queen Elizabeth II's life.
This was a good thing since she had to become Queen at such a young age.
She really is a helpful force that keeps the Commonwealth together and you are left wondering if the next monarch will be able to run the Commonwealth or if they will want to find a more democratic way of choosing a leader.
This gives her a way to help keep things civil at times when the politicians cannot.
This book was fascinating! I really liked the inclusion of politics milestones as well as personal achievements and events. It was a fair look at not just the Queen, but a royal family that has had a checkered presence in British history. There were a few slow parts throughout all of the political ins an outs (I don’t have a great understanding of the constitutional monarchy- although better now!) but well worth the read!
Drawing on numerous interviews and never-before-revealed documents, Bedell Smith shows in intimate detail the public and private lives of this fascinating woman, who has led her country and Commonwealth through the wars and upheavals of the last sixty years with unparalleled composure, intelligence, and grace.
Here, upon the sixtieth anniversary of the Queen’s coronation, Sally Bedell Smith shares some surprising facts about Her Majesty the Queen.Twelve Surprising Facts You Didn’t Know About Queen Elizabeth II1.
When Queen Elizabeth II saw her first supermarket while visiting the United States in 1957, she was most fascinated by the frozen chicken potpies.8.
Smith uses extensive interviews, press clippings, and numerous background books to illustrate the multi-faceted nature of Elizabeth II's life and the numerous events that helped shape her life, both before she ascended to the throne and during her (ongoing) historic reign.
While dealing with many subjects, the book is neither too shallow in its description, nor too weighed to give a proper understanding of what took place and the ramifications of all the actors' actions.While some may wish to see a tabloided, overly dramatised biography, Smith steers clear of this and presents a well-weighed view of the Monarch and her family members.
The book is truly a spectacular illustration of the hard work that is taken by the current monarch to keep things going.
I admittedly knew very little about Queen Elizabeth II before I read this biography but what little I knew made me want to know more.
This book has satisfied that want in a very entertaining and engaging way.
No, I would have made a terrible queen but then, there isn't a lot of call for royalty in the U.S. I laughed at parts that seemed somewhat less than regal, as when the Queen wore her 3-lb.
I recommend it to anyone who wants to know more about the Queen and the people around her.Thank you to the publisher and LibraryThing for giving me a copy of the book for review.
Her childhood and early years as a monarch are well covered and the author appears to have good sources who were within the inner circle.
I'm not saying that what was written about her is untrue but the author seems to have only spoken to the Queen's inner circle and not anyone close to Diana herself.
Again, it's a great book but I think the second half needed more insight or perhaps only more time to give it perspective.Overall if you have any interest on what it takes to be the Queen this is a great read.
I feel like this book was trying to do the same thing, but in a misguided sort of way.
The author was working hard to present the Queen as a champion of the "little people," and indeed I am willing to believe she is; but the author seems like a snob, and projects a lot of it onto the Queen.
Diana (who is not here to defend herself, of course) is indeed presented as crazy: the author states that she "probably" had borderline personality disorder.
And the Queen tried to be loving but Diana fought against the whole family and by the way was crazy.
