https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52254.The_Long_Week_End
I wonder how on earth Robert Graves and Alan Hodge decided what to include in this book and what to leave out.
I would also imagine that most of the hard work in the archives was done by Alan Hodge and most of the commentary was written by Robert Graves, but the collaboration is pretty much seamless.
It is not an unbiased commentary, the bias is Graves', but not the strong personal viewpoint of Goodbye to All That.A lot of ephemera also makes its way into the book.
But then Graves was a writer and poet so I suppose that’s forgivable (being charitable here!).It’s full of observations, like charming habits that rapidly fell out of favour through the Twenties – it was no longer acceptable for pedestrians to stop cars and demand rides, for example (who knew?) – or for travellers to talk to each other on trains (though I remember a similar era in air travel when you were expected to exchange life stories with your seat-mate) What also stands out for me was the strength of pacifism towards the end of the decade.
My focus tends to be on Europe, and in particular the UK, and so I was particularly interested in reading this "social history of Great Britain" during the peace that endured between World War One and World War Two. The book was first published in 1940 and so is written without the knowledge of the outcome of World War Two. That this book contains an alternate, idiosyncratic and personal history of Britain between World War One and World War Two, becomes very apparent when the reader arrives at the chapter headings.
One of the classic social/political histories of the inter-war period in Britain and the Empire.
The author, Robert Graves, whose autobiography Goodbye to All That also stands as a classic of the disillusionment that WWI brought to his generation.
approaches this history seriously but still keeps tongue in cheek in some sections.
You will need to be familiar with British history of the time to relate to some of the allusions in the narrative.
But even if you are not, this book will open up the world of those days where the world was changing rapidly and society/government was trying to ignore that another war was inevitable.
With chapter headings like The Days of the Loch Ness Monster, Education and Ethics, Amusements, Pacifism, Nudism, Hiking and Three Kings in One Year, the authors cover a lot of ground with interesting and relevant information and facts to keep the reader turning the page.Personally, I thought this book was jam-packed with intriguing bits of trivia that made me feel like I had learned a lot about the time period whilst giving me the drive to go read even more.
If you are a bit obsessed with this corner of history (as I have been ever since picking up a Dorothy Sayers mystery, and she too is chronologued here), then the book is well worth the time.
From dance crazes to political scandal, from recreational drugs to midbrow literature to anti-Semitism and the abdication crisis, the book covers wide ground with incisive wit and a light touch.
Obviously, Graves was a bit player himself and it shows, most notably his extended paeon to Laura Riding's poetical vision.
The book bills itself as a social history, but in today’s terms would probably be better understood as a cultural history.Graves and Hodge range widely, discussing popular literature, cinema, politics, fashion, technology, and science, although their preference is clearly for the arts and politics.
American cinema, American fashion, and other American arts also infected Britain.Meanwhile, according to the authors, British culture was mostly stagnant, after centuries of progressive growth, Health was bad—but doctors were concerned only with cutting particular diseases, not making a healthy population.
Having a newer edition, I hadn't really thought about how old the book was until I realized, "wait, Robert Graves is one of the authors?" Copyrighted in 1940 I am still impressed by how un-dated the book is right up until the end.
In most cases the adolescent homosexual became sexually normal on leaving school; but a large minority of the more emotional young people could not shake off the fascination of perversity." Later they refer to "Soho negroes" as "simply sensual people." These two brief passages made me cringe but the book was otherwise surprisingly up-to-date for a 76-year old book.Worth reading if you can get passed the authors' bigotry.

Something of a potboiler from two well-known authors, described as 'breathless' on the cover of the Penguin edition, but still an absorbing study of the norms and fashions and attitudes of inter-war Britain. It will survive, I suspect, because there's nothing else quite like it and was written (in a hurry)in the immediate aftermath (1940) of the period it describes.
About 1/3 of the way through.
Most interesting indeed.
What does it not cover in the political, socioeconomic world of British subjects during the 1919-1939 interlude between the world wars?
Many I would have expected, however, others I would have not - advertizing?Still if you are seriously interested in history, this book is one you might wish to read and even enjoy.
The British politics can prove difficult, but what politics of any country aren't?
Worth half a crown, Guv'nor.'Reporter, eagerly: 'Police told yet?'Newsboy: 'No, 'course not.'Reporter: 'Woman?'Newsboy: 'Yep.'Reporter: 'Young?'Newsboy: 'Mother of five.'Reporter: 'Oh...
It's my mother, Guv'nor.'Reporter: 'O have it your way, then, blast you!
I have had this book on my shelf for a long time but never got around to reading it because I did not teach British history.
I got lost sometimes, however, as the authors describe changing clothing fashions, as I did not always know the terminology, and at other times they refer to things that British at the time would know but as an American reading the book seventy years later I am not acquainted with.
But the book holds up well and should be both useful and interesting to anyone wanting to know more about this period.
This book is a great way to bone up on interwar history without slogging through a "boring history book." Graves and Hodge include lots of interesting tidbits about popular culture, which don't seem important individually, but add up to a really full picture of what the atmosphere was like in the UK--especially in London--between the wars. Naturally there's lots of information about literature and the press.The downside is that the authors' personal opinions and prejudices show through at times. The reader shouldn't turn off his or her critical eye despite the friendliness of the content and format.
A splendid book, a must read for anyone with even a passing interest in this period of history. Flawed - it's largely about the middle class experience of southern England, and I wouldn't place reliance on some of the detail - but an immensely readable narrative. Chapters are themes, but cleverly take us through chronologically. A wide sweep of subjects, from the development of motoring and suburbia, to fashions and films, to fascism and the Abdication. Longer and more reflective review at http://gertsamtkunstwerk.typepad.co.u...


Let me preface my opinion of this text with if you read it you have to understand it within the context of the time when it was read...
Graves and Hodge wrote the text at the beginning of WWII, so some of their views and statements seems a bit dated in comparison to our social norms today...there are some references to women and homosexuals that seem a bit out of place, but more in sync with the time period.
Besides that, the text takes a pretty in depth look at society during the interwar period and covers things that may seem trivial but say a lot.
Especially interesting because it was published in 1941, so without benefit of much reflection and hindsight and also at a time of great stress.This is a survey of all sorts of social and political issues. The basis of the book came from newpapers, magazines, memoirs, etc. Witty (it is Graves, after all) and a good complement to the memoirs of Harold Macmillan covering the same period (his Vol. I, Winds of Change). Macmillan's book is where I learned about this book.
It is so fun reading a book about 1918-1939 that was published in 1940. I got a first-hand look at how Graves and Hodge viewed the time they were living in. They tried hard to be unbiased, but it certainly came through at times and that is what I enjoyed the most. There were definitely parts I needed to skim because it was so much local politics, but other than that, this is a great history book.
IF YOU LOVE THE INTERWAR YEARS, I RECOMMEND CHRISTOPHER ISHERWOOD'S CHRISTOPHER AND HIS KIND, RICHARD OVERY'S THE MORBID AGE, JULIET GARDINER'S THE THIRTIES, ROBERT GRAVES'S THE LONG WEEKEND, THE SISTERS BY MARY S. LOVELL, AFTER THE VICTORIANS BY A. N. WILSON, AND VIRGINIA NICHOLSON'S AMONG THE BOHEMIANS. IT'S ACTUALLY MY PERIOD OF RESEARCH IF YOU'RE LOOKING FOR MORE SPECIFIC OR ACADEMIC RECOMMENDATIONS ON THE INTERWAR PERIOD.
This is definitely a good book but boy is it a slog sometimes. I got to page 284 and i just couldn't do it anymore. Some parts are very engaging but others are incredibly dry. Definitely worthwhile, but be prepped for some work.
This was on Shirley Mullen's recommended reading list under the category of "history."
Snoooooooooooooooze! Albeit a necessary snooze.
This book was delightfully British in both tone and content. What a weird (and sometimes wonderful) culture. "Yes, We Have No Bananas" indeed.
One of the best social histories I've ever read. Made such sense out of the incomprehensible time between the wars.
Interesting as much for what it reveals abut the attitudes of the time and society in which the book was written as for what it covers.
