https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2399928.Jassy
Jassy is one of the best Norah Lofts novels I've yet to read and if you're in the mood for a really good gothic I think you'll like it too.To me, Jassy was the female version of Heathcliff - her mother being a gypsy - and it was never a good idea to mess with Heathcliff!
This should be a great book to read during the cold winter months.I'm glad to see that Norah Lofts books are being reprinted for a new generation of readers.
Like Wuthering Heights and Heathcliff, I think Jassy will be remembered for many, many years
This ending came up and smacked me in the face.
And she is the closest to understanding the core of the 5 or 6 main characters interactions that came before her.
It is a stunning psychological study but even more than that a societal fabric of belief and custom supreme.How could Dickens have become so glorified and Norah Lofts been trampled by the feet of oblivion.This is why I am a Anglophile.
There are only two in the entire 4 state system.If there are any other Norah Lofts I have not read out there, I will find them.
There are some factors such as poverty and marriage that made this book even more interesting for me to read.All I have to say left is that I thought the ending was one of the saddest endings I have ever read, but at the same time it was memorable and thought-provoking.
I can't say it enough, this author manages to bring up the good and bad sides of the characters without making you detest them or totally love them.Este fue un gran libro lleno de personajes inolvidables que siempre viviran en mi memoria.
After having picked up several disappointing/frustrating books recently.... finally! a novel with interesting characters and a well-told story :).
Another good readYou can depend on it. Nora Lofts wrote so many good books. She doesn't,like many novelists, provide a happy ending and tie everything up with a pretty pink ribbon. Her characters have flaws and are therefore realistic. I read Jassy years ago and found it just as enjoyable the second time. Enjoy
When it comes to period pieces and historical fiction, Norah Lofts is as good as anyone. Jassy's story is told in 3 volumes, each by a different person, and links the periods in her life together. Loft's wonderful writing style, great plot and character development., and very descriptive imagery gives Jassy the feel of reading Bronte or Thomas Hardy.
It is also what leads to her downfall.What is so striking about this book from a craft perspective is that none of it is in Jassy’s voice, breaking the conventional rule that one gets from agents, that the best way of making a character vivid is to use first person.In spite of the fact that throughout this novel we are NOT privy to Jassy’s own thoughts via interior monologue and the like, the reader will come away from this knowing Jassy thoroughly.How does Ms. Lofts do it?The novel is written in four books, and each one is narrated by a different person, so that we get a collage of opinions and impressions of the protagonist.
The main trouble is I think it’s supposed to be one of those ‘literary fiction’ books which are generally very introspective and depressing, and usually don’t have happy endings.
(hide spoiler)]Content Rating: Mature themes PG/M I didn’t read it all the way through but I think there are some mature themes and a general air of depression which makes this book highly unsuitable for children and probably completely uninteresting to teenagers.
Not my cup of tea at all.Romance Rating: UnsureI started this book under the misapprehension it would be about the main character, Jassy, and no doubt involve a romance of some kind.
Still one of my favorite authors. It never fails -- when I pick up one of her dusty old books in a used book store, I know I'm going to be up until 3am many nights in a row. Her characterization and ability to capture a time in history is exquisite.
Saturday Review called this book "spellbinding" when it was published in 1944; it is still spellbinding. Lofts' characters are so real that I felt I knew these people.
This story is well-crafted. Lofts uses a unique device telling the life story of the title character from the first person POV of those who who interact with Jassy, but never from Jassy's POV. I highly recommend this book.What I like so well about Lofts's style is how the reader is immersed in the time and place in the first page and the story moves right along clippety-clop so that by the time you reach the last page you feel almost breathless.
This is one of the most twisted books I've ever read. Told in sections from the POV of four different people throughout Jassy's life--but none of them her and all with a bent of their own. Dark, Gothic ending, but I won't say more than that.
Jassy is one of my favorites and this thread and characters continue over several books.
It is not a book to browse through or sample, as the portrait is built up gradually and one only gets the full picture near the end.
I have chopped and changed this review in an effort to do justice to the book while avoiding spoilers - a very challenging task!It is a very moving story of an intelligent and spirited girl who manages to overcome much of the adversity of her humble birth, but in doing so generates envy and enmity in other, less worthy individuals.
At the end, the reader may become frustrated by the apparent passivity of an individual who has shown such spirit, determination and initiative throughout her life.
I absolutely loved this. I loved Jassy and found her fascinating. I also enjoyed only seeing her through the people around her. A great gothic story. Truly one of my favorites now. I will definitely seek out more Norah Lofts.
late 18th century, gypsy girl.
recommended by Alice.
3.5 stars Very interesting being told the story from the other characters' perspective and not the main character.
This was a silly little period piece, but ultimately enjoyable.
The story of Jassy Woodroffie, written from 4 perspectives: Barney, the boy who lost his ancestral home Mortiboy's; Elizabeth Twysdate who ran a school for young ladies; Dilys Helmar, a girl from the school which her father owns; and Lindy, a mute servant at Mortiboy's.
