https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29118.Forging_the_Darksword
This isn't an actual review of the book (since I only read the first six chapters), just a short explanation of why I didn't finish it.
But to me, the world-building here wasn't very plausible, in several respects, and the world Weis and Hickman create isn't inviting or appealing.
Granted, six chapters in, main character Joram isn't introduced yet.
Facing a whole trilogy written like this was too daunting a prospect.Weis and Hickman have an enormous following, so obviously there are readers who really like this.
I keep acquiring these Weis books out of some misplaced nostalgia or unknowable impulse. Perhaps because I liked the Dragonlance characters, but never read her books. I never finish them. I've tried at least four. I asked a friend why this might be. She said, "Well, didn't they suck? Quit buying everything with a sword and a logo."
En mi opinión, es un excelent libro, a pesar de las malas críticas que llegue a leer aqui. Demasiado bien escrito, lleno de intriga y una buena historia, recomendado al 100%.Excelent book, perfectly written, with an amazing story! 100% must read if you like fantasy!
I got this trilogy from a rental store.
I wasn't expecting much of it given it's poor condition at the time but I decided to try it as I noted that it was written by the ones who wrote the Dragonlance Chronicles trilogy.Boy was I surprised.
The protagonist and the supporting characters are very well fleshed out and very interesting - the bitter and unloved Joram, the amusing but enigmatic Simkin, the amoral Bishop Vanya, and the empathic flaws and burdens of Saryon.
Add powerful characters to a very well described society and culture made the story that much more evocative and intriguing.
Man, my middle school obsession was Dragonlance, for goodness' sake!
But it was just sitting there in my office while I was babysitting the copy machine, so I picked it up.
And, just as I remember, every character is undeveloped, every event forced, the only thing they've got going on is some half-decent worldbuilding and the sorta pathetic twist that the "evil Sorcerors" (secretly the good guys, right?) are actually NON-magic users in a world of magicians.
Still, it was more interesting than watching the copy machine copy for four hours, so I'll give it at least one star.
Clearly recommended to me in 1995 by my boyfriend, Joey...hee hee he's my husband now...this is not the type of book I typically chose then or now.
But, since it's a trilogy and I never read anymore books in the trilogy...not sure how much I enjoyed it.
Good to see I was branching out back then, though!entered into goodreads: 6/7/2015PS Just asked my former boyfriend if he remembers the book, and he went on to describe it capably according the the summary on goodreads.
He's probably read 1000+ books since then, so the fact that he can remember this one totally blows my mind.
Of all the Weis & Hickman books, this trilogy was my favourite.
Far outshining the much beloved (and far more well known), formulaic "Dragonlance" books that preceeded it.
Freed from the shackles of having to write a fantasy trilogy as a companion piece to the D&D module packs, they were able to explore their imagination more fully and structure the plot more appropriately.Okay, if I read it now I probably wouldn't rate it quite as highly but I still think that it stands up fairly well, unlike most other books they wrote before or since.
Look, a MAGIC SWORD!!" Yes, despite being called "Forging the Darksword" this book is a conscious attempt by the authors to, not exactly subvert fantasy cliche, but at least to sidestep it a little and bring it along only where it suits the story they are trying to tell.
Subsequently, what Forging the Darksword feels like to me is both a progression and more the sort of book that the authors always wanted to try and write.It's really not perfect.
I generally love pulp fantasy (see definition in other reviews). Unfortunately, this dark, foreboding entry into the Dark Sword Series by the generally bankable duo Margaret Weis and Tracy Hickman really disappointed. A solid start and premise meandered into a slow plot caught in a snail pace with unlikeable characters that couldn't break the constraints of their archetypes. For pulp fantasy it committed the cardinal sin of being boring and burdensome.Definitely not pure escapism...
I enjoyed this book and read it only because it was given to me as a gift. The beginning was great.. though I will say the end kinda slowed down. I will read the next two books. Glad for once a series does not go on and on and on. I am interested to see how the "prince" was saved from being killed.
The trilogy that got me into reading as a teenager. My rating probably reflects this. It's a great one for teenagers just getting into fantasy books etc...
Weis and Hickman will return to this theme of a system not working the way it should in the "Death Gate Cycle."But, Thimhallan faces a more direct threat to magic as this novel opens: an increasing number of people are born "Dead," lacking any access at all to magic.
(view spoiler)[As in "Rose of the Prophet," Weis and Hickman are decades ahead of their time in hinting Mosiah is in love with Joram.
(view spoiler)[Vanya is deeply disturbed when his spy within the Technologists -- presumably Blachloch, possibly Simkin, likely Anton -- reveals Joram has discovered the darkstone.
The sequence of events in the beginning of the novel is a bit hard to get into, but I enjoyed the events being presented, so I continued reading.
Though I usually don't like books that start when an ending and then go back in time, I continued with this one because it wasn't really the ending, but the middle that the novel started with.
Even after the way the novel opened, the plot was interesting.
I lost a bit of interest when the book changed point of view to the child Joram.

Very good.
This one reminds me of their other books, which just made me content.
Theme was dark and ...
damp.
Deliberate tempo, filling it with explanations and character building which I enjoyed, with pace raising at the end.
They created an interesting and believable form of magic, called "Life" and showed how this reality developed routines, predigests (against those who were Dead") even changed architecture by never cutting wood, stone but growing it instead.
(They grew the trees into huts, loved that picture.) I have the next 2 in the series at the library.
Cant wait to devour them.
special snowflake protagonist is mundane, whereas entire setting is sorcerous. protagonist is the subject of an apocalyptic prophecy. he is both hidden monarch and embodiment of industrial development over magocratic stagnation.anyway, he is tried and convicted of being a dick, but escapes punishment by letting his friend be petrified in his stead. good job!
Este libro era justo lo que necesitaba: algo entretenido y ligero, fácil de leer. La historia parte de una idea de universo curiosa -un mundo donde lo raro es quien nace sin poderes mágicos- tiene toques cómicos y por supuesto acción y aventuras. Lo malo: Es difícil encontrar las continuaciones en español.
The Darksword Trilogy pull you into a world in need of a hero. Things aren't what they should be, but as it gets darker and darker under the pressure of the evil forces at hand, is there a light on the horizon?I loved these books, and sadly, finished them within a week. They just pulled me in and made me a strange hermit recluse that only surfaced for meals. Enjoy!
Probably the best in the series. I love the tarot references and the character of Simkin. Great high fantasy.
An interesting start that petered out to a boring conclusion.
I LOVED this series when I read it 10+ years ago. I remember a great story, quick pace, and how much I enjoyed the humor, wit, and transformations of Simpkin.
Loved it! And will go straight into the next book of the trilogy.
More Margaret Weis that I could not get enough of as a teenager. The Darksword trilogy was great filler in between the many Dragonlance novels. These are the perfect young adult fantasy reads.
My favorite trilogy when I was in High School. I've been meaning to re-read it and see if it was as awesome as I remember.
Just like the rest of the books she writes this is another fantastic book in the series and am looking forward to reading the rest of the series the next time I have a free spot to read a new book.
As I said earlier, nothing really happened of great importance even though 17 years passed in the book (we are also constantly reminded of this fact in one of the chapters).
Word repetitions, actions that the characters perform… everything is so dull and boring.But the nail in the coffin for me was the chapter when we are introduced to the faeries.
Maybe the faeries will make a return later on, but I didn't find out or cared, as I stopped reading soon after, at about 50% mark.So, all in all, I abandoned this series which is a shame because I really expected more from the authors.
The characters are strongly established, developed, written and are likable.The main issue is just that it's like 95% setup.
While Saryon's backstory is necessary to the main plot, it takes quiiite a while to get to where you realize that and why you've had to read all that.
On the other hand, the first book of DGC is just a lot more fun and tells a story that stands on its own while it draws you into the world.
That said, I'm very much up for more, and I am a character over plot person a lot of the time myself.
I really liked the premise/setting, and the overall arc was quite decent, but felt a bit bogged down getting through the detail.
I also have no idea what the hell that chapter with the faeries was about.
I assume it comes back in the sequel but it really doesn't work in the context of this one book.I generally liked the characters.
Simkin was entertaining, Vanya was great, Blackloch was surprisingly subtle for a moustache twirling villain.
Par for the course for pulpy fantasy I guess, but surprised me coming from a book written by a woman and a man with a woman's name...
In an alternate world, the witches of our world escaped to a place where those with magic are free to practice their arts.
Those born without power are Dead, and made to disappear.
Joram, who is Dead, and Saryon, a deacon of the magical Church, become embroiled in a political-religious scandal concerning the use of magic versus the use of technology.
The story is good, although it's difficult to read.
Thankfully, Weis and Hickman are better at explaining the world building, unlike other authors who do not help the reader navigate the world.
And its fun to read how an all-magic society would view those who craft everything by hand.
As bothersome as it can be to read through stories about the clash between "science" and "magic", Forging the Darksword is just too cute to pass up. None of the new ideas presented by the story are especially revolutionary way but it reads in a comely way as far as a heroic fantasy story can go. Some of the more "human" themes are a bit more uncomfortable than is necessary.
