https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/160192.Joyful_Noise
Honestly -- "dozens and dozens" of times --we read this book --acted out the poems together...........
It was a BIG TIME FAVORITE BOOK in our house when my kids still lived at home.
I haven't thought of this book since the 'last' time (years ago too) --when a Goodreads friend brought it up.Although a great Kindle deal -- The hardcopy is LOVELY!!
Great to read with your kids!!!Another Goodreads friend just posted having read this book....She got me excited.
I read this book dozens and dozens of times --around 20 years ago (a favorite in our house with my daughters and I)
As a literacy Coach, I am constantly being told about and asked for resources that will address specific components of reading.It saddens and frustrates me when awesome books like this one are overlooked while dry/mundane/BORING "fluency" programs are being passed around and sucked up like pixie sticks at a pre-schoolers birthday party.
These poems are soooooo cool and interesting and fun.
One of my favorite moments this year was when 2 girls with limited English skills latched onto this book and begged to read it to their classmates before each class session.
A precious book of poetry to be enjoyed by children AND adults.I'm seeing the insect world in a different way.5 stars
There is something                                             wondrousabout a book that                                            demands to beenjoyed with a friend.    enjoyed with a friend.
My son asked to read with me, he said "remember when I was first learning to read and you would read a page and then I would read a page?" and I happened to pick up this book from the library!
I love to select award winning books if I don't have any books requested to pick up.
We read line beside line and loved this book!
what a brilliant idea, the poetry is so beautiful and several I have gone back to read again, you will never see bugs the same again!
Great homeschool read for any age, my son is 9 in 4th grade!
This book bugged the hell out of me.
"Joyful Noise: Poems for Two Voices," is a Newbery Medal winning collection of poems written by Paul Fleischman.
In his poetic description of fireflies, he appeals to the reader's sense of sight with words such as flicking, flashing, glimmering, and gleaming.
In his poem entitled "Whirligig Beetles" he appeals to the kinesthetic nature with words such as whirling, weaving, wheeling, and swirling.
One of my favorite poems tells the of the cicada's life with these words, "whining, whirring, booming, boisterous, joyful noise!" I can just hear them now!!
3.5 out of 5Paul Fleischman’s poems about the (extra)ordinary lives of various insects throughout the seasons (beginning with spring) are funny, smart, playful, evocative, AND informational. Bonus points: these poems are meant to be read by two voices simultaneously, so grab a friend and enjoy! If the poems are read as intended, you can literally hear the joyful cacophony of the buzzing, chirping grass field.Eric Beddows’s humorous and detailed black-and-white pencil illustrations are equally lovely and engaging:
Paul Fliechman's book Joyful Noise is a collection of poems meant to be read by two voices.
Each poem is describes the life of the particular insect through creative rhythm.
This book does not contain poems in the traditional sense, it bring poetry to life, and captivated the readers and listeners.
In addition to its creative nature, this book is full of fun and knowledgeable insight.
It is an excellent book to make science, nature or any other related topic upbeat and fun.
Each poem made my imagination run wild, I feel it would be unfair to NOT read this book to my classroom.
I haven't read these poems since I was in college, and I love them! I am in awe at the cleverness of Fleischman, to write for two voices. You can practically hear both voices in your head as you read them. I also listened to them on CD and that was a great thing, as well. This is some good poetry!
Picked this up in my quest to read more Newbery winners. Also, I needed a poetry book for my reading challenge.I am not much of a poetry person, generally, but I really enjoyed this book. The poems are thoughtful and clever and I'm sure they sound awesome read aloud.
Read Aloud 10 yrs + Independent Reader 14 yrs + Worldview - Universally AcceptableReview This delightful poetry book is followed by Paul Fleishman’s later book I am Phoenix. The poems are written to be read by two people at times in unison, at others times taking turns. Each poem is a brief and manageable length so that children should have no problem polishing the poem and being able to read it fluidly within one week. The vocabulary included is simple and easy to read, but the skill and readin
The vocabulary included is simple and easy to read, but the skill and reading level required to read in unison and follow both ones own part as well as their fellow reader creates a unique reading challenge for students.
It would not be advised however to use the audio book with your students unless there is no other choice as the great benefit of this style of poetry is the skill level required and challenge presented in reading in unison/rhythm aloud together.
Ideally each reader could independently familiarize themselves with the new poem early in the week and read it aloud together several times later in the week until it can be said fluently.
This book is a collection of poems about insects.
They come alive through the masterfully paired and unpaired reading of the poem designed for two voices.
come to life as the poem is read-aloud by two voices.
This is an excellent mentor text teaching across the science and poetry curricula.Written in 1988 (yes, this one is an oldie, but Goldie), Joyful Noise is marvelously illustrated by Eric Beddows.
I would use Joyful Noise as a read-aloud with definitely two voices.
This text can be used across several curriculums: Reading, Writing and Science.
On each page the stanzas have been broken up so that each reader knows when they should read and when their partner should read, and if they do not know what the poem is about they can look to the beautifully drawn image by Eric Beddows.
This book will not only create an interest in poetry in children, but will change how they look at words and how they understand rhymes and rhythms.
Paul Frieshman and Eric Beddows work well together in showing that writing poetry requires the same amount of creativity (if not more) that it takes to draw.
/ We are book lice!"It is always a "joyful noise" when I hear my three year old son recite lines from the chapter books we read together the night before.
It's fascinating to hear what sticks in that powerful engine of a brain of his.Paul Fleischman's book of poetry is notorious and for good reason.
I'm pleased to have finally read the original work.The poems capture the world of the littlest creatures and range from the silly and clever to the surprisingly profound.
"Book Lice" is linguistic silliness that had my son cackling, and "The House Cricket" had me laughing along with him, as well.
POETRY CATEGORYThis is a group of poems about insects, meant to be read aloud by two readers.
I thought that sounded quite fun, and even began to imagine using this book in the classroom.
My husband and I read some, a sixteen-year-old friend read a few with me.
My husband called it "apathetic melodrama." I've rarely been more happy for a book to be done.To be fair, the illustrations are quite good.
I think it might be a case of adults liking the idea and novelty behind two voices, but honestly, the poems themselves are not well done.
I listened to the audio version and followed along with the book.I like the two voices together in harmony; I, especially, enjoyed when the lines were in rounds.
The rhythm in the reading was expressed well with two voices, but also showed on the page.
I think the audio helped because it is meant for two people, and it would have been a little more difficult to read this without two people.
I think young readers would enjoy this and I think it would make a great classroom activity to work together and read this book out loud.
The book is written in poems, although not in the normal sense.
These poems about insects are designed to be read aloud by two people; if performed by people who really get into it, Fleischman's work comes to life.
Otherwise, I recommend reading it; but if you can hear a performance of it, that's even better because that's how Fleischman intended for it to be experienced.
They are meant to be read simultaneously by "Two Voices" in verse that always compliments and frequently overlaps.I have a daughter who loves to read poetry and we had a great time reading these together.
Every time we came to a new insect, she would wrinkle her nose and say "ewww!" and then thoroughly enjoy learning about them.
Her favorite, of course, was the Whirligig Beetle, which she almost couldn't read because she couldn't stop giggling about the name.So if you can't get outside to enjoy God's insect orchestra, try Joyful Noise, and it will transport the two of you there.
Each poem is about a different insect and divided into columns so that it can easily be read by two people.I was immediately drawn to the idea of two people reciting a poem together.
The illustrations, while beautifully detailed do not, in my opinion, match the whimsical nature of the text.
Still, the text is both charming and witty.
Readers will enjoy reciting these poems as duos and prereaders will enjoy listening.
I gave this collection 4 stars.It would be fun to incorporate some of these poems into a dramatic reading exercise.This book is available in print.
Joyful Noise is written for two voices-- sometimes talking together and sometimes talking separately.
The collection of poems portray the noises and characteristics of different insects such as grasshoppers, whirligig beetles, and water boatmen.
This fun collection of poems can be read in reading to help students with fluency and with reading with expression.
Joyful Noise can also be implemented in a science class when learning about insects.
Although the poems are not the same as informational texts, the poems can help students learn about the characteristics of different insects.
The rhythm also sounds interesting with the two different voices.
Summary: This was a book of poems about insects. It talks about how they are related and involved in the lives of humans. It has many insects such as fireflies, moths, and grasshoppers. Evaluation: I thought this book was a cool look into how you can imagine insects' lives. My favorite insects were the book lice. The book lice talked about different parts of the book and genres they "ate."Teaching Idea: In my 4th grade placement, we worked on connections. Text-to-Text, Text-to-Self, and Text-to-World connections. Students would explain which connection they had and then justify it.
This was a fun, funny, different take on poetry for kids. I really enjoyed it!
Doing read alouds with a book like that would be a lot of fun, and it's a way into a discussion about how there can be different views of the same thing.
I'm not a bug person, and I really don't want to read about or think about book lice.
I did love the two voice poem about bees a lot, though.
The poems are to be read aloud and performed, and that's great, but if a middle grades student wouldn't want to pick it up and read it, I don't think it should win the Newbery.
Some parts were not as clear as others, but the ending really tied the book together. It is organized seasonally, with birds, animals, and insects appearing as they do in time. Some very beautiful imaginings. Cicadas was nice. Some of the crickets were nice too.
I absolutely loved reading these out loud. It was a challenge, to be sure, but with practice and time, I can see that these poems would be wonderful to perform. Each poem was spot-on in its particular "bug-ness."
I did this book as an audio. Amazing! This is a short poetry book for kids. 5/5
Any book that can make me see beauty and wonder in bugs is something remarkable. I have a dreadful fear of all things creepy crawly so I was startled at how much I enjoyed these poems. I listened to the audio and it was fabulous! Proof that some poems are meant to be heard. Definitely recommend listening. BOB 3/4
There are 14 poems celebrating the unique characteristics of insects.
According to a note at the beginning of the book, "The following poems were written to be read aloud by two readers at once, one taking the left-hand part, the other taking the right-hand part.
The poems should be read from top to bottom, the two parts meshing as in a musical duet.
When both readers have lines at the same horizontal level, those lines are to be spoken simultaneously" This seems like it would be perfect for students to read aloud, reader's theater style.
I have dreams about this book.
I want to buy it and teach my future children to read with it.
I want them to not only learn words, but the music of words with me while reading this book.
I want them to feel its rhythm.
Because it can't be read properly without two people that are on the same page with each other.
I guess I'm just dreaming that someday when I'm a grandma, this is the dog-eared book my children will come home to, hug, and then look at me with a smile and say, "Remember this one, Mom?"
