https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/846065.The_Berenstain_Bears_and_the_Truth
This book made me laugh. I see this all the time with my niece and nephew. Something happens and it's never their fault. They look so guilty and eventually they will confess. They had fun with this book. The early 80s were the best Berenstain bears books.Maybe it's a bit preachy, but it's still true. They kids don't catch the preachiness.
It was just a surface scratch and nothing serious, but there was a little bit of blood and as anyone who’s been a kid on a bike before knows, skinned knees can hurt like the dickens sometimes.
Mom: “Did you tell your sister the scientific word for her knee was the word anus?”Me: “What?!?” Mom: “You heard me.” Me: ::silent::Mom: “She looks up to you.
It’s not nice to tell lies like that.” So yes, apparently my poor bleeding sister had run home crying for mom and upon her arrival announced, “Mommy!
For some reason this was also one of my favorites in the series as a kid growing up.
Not sure if it was because I had a problem telling the truth as a young kid or if I just liked the pictures of the soccer ball turned into a bird.
;) The Berenstain’s do a wonderful job though of walking Brother and Sister bear through the process of fear of failure and disappointment leading to lying and then to disappointment and shame when the lie inevitably is found out in the end and must be owned up to.
I highly recommend The Truth, as I do with most books in the Berenstain Bears series.
★★★★The Berenstain Bears and the Truth by Stan and Jan BerenstainWhen left alone inside, there's no tellin' what Brother and Sister will do. They think for a bit, and can't agree, until they come to the conclusion, soccer in the house is a good idea. This can lead no where good, so when something gets broke, their solution, lie. But what starts as a little lie, grows very fast. The lesson learned is you can't have trust, when lies are involved.
But they never, ever again told a whopper...Because trust is one thing you can’t put back together once it’s broken.How endearing.
New York : Random House.Characters: The Berenstain Bears - Brother Bear, Sister Bear, Papa Bear, Mama Bear.
Brother and Sister Bear are bored in the house, while Papa Bear is working and Mama Bear is out shopping.
To get it away from her, Brother shoots the ball at Sister, she blocks it and after multiple ricochets, it hits Mama’s favorite vase.
Brother hides the ball, and when Mama asks what happened - they two lie about what went down - blaming the incident on a purple bird.
Target Audience: Early Elementary, K-2Curriculum Ties: Honesty, Rules, Read-alongsPersonal response: A simple story contained with the Berenstain Bears family universe.
Glad lamp was glued together Great book! Helped teach my son the importance of telling the truth. My girlfriend was also impressed with the moral.
Of course, playing soccer in the house must end badly, and Mama’s favorite lamp is broken.When Mama arrives back home, moments later, Brother and Sister insist that it was a bird that broke the lamp–a purple bird with yellow feet, green wing tips, and red feathers sticking out of its head, they embellish.
Mama tells them that the lamp can be fixed, but she is sad that her cubs, who she’s always trusted, are lying to her, and that trust can’t be so easily repaired.Hearing this, both Brother and Sister fall all over themselves to take the blame for breaking the lamp, and we are told that after this, they “never, ever again told a whopper.”Like many of the later books, the story is just there to hang the moral lesson on, so it’s not that great.
Sister Bear makes some good suggestions of things they can do but Brother Bear wants only to do one thing and that is play soccer inside.
They first try to tell a fantastic lie but they soon learn that it is easier to tell the truth and makes you feel better when you tell the truth.
It makes it easier for kids to read the story and then they can not only learn from the words but from the pictures also.
It explains why you should always tell the truth and that if you do, you feel better.
The age recommended for this book is 4-7 years old (P)Primary."The Berenstain Bears and the Truth" is about a family of four bears, including a mama bear, papa bear, brother and sister bear.
The brother and sister bear is disobeying the rules and starts playing soccer throughout the tree house.
Eventually the truth comes out and mama bear explains to them the importance of telling the truth and not to lie.I rated this book with five stars.
The mama bear and papa bear's character seems to be very stern when it comes to the rules around the house.
Brother Bear accidently hits the soccer ball and breaks his mom’s favorite lamp.
When Mama Bear shows up the two children make up a lie to their mom about the lamp.
In the end the children tell the truth because Mama Bear explains the importance of being trustworthy.
I would have the students act out the situation that the children faced and ask them questions about it.
An example of a question that I would ask the students is if they would have done what the children did or of they would have told the truth.
Summary: This book from the Berenstain Bears series is very important.
Telling the truth is an important lesson for children to learn, and the young readers are able to see the Berenstain Bears learn that lesson.Written by Stan Berenstain Published in 1983 by Random House Books for Young Children Recommendations/Awards: none Audience: Read together or read alone: grades K-4 Genre: Picture Book series Illustrations: The illustrations in this story are very colorful.
I think that is what attracts the young readers to the Berenstain bears collection.
Uses: These books are great for a read aloud or independent reading.
The problem is they lie about it when it happens, and it breaks their mother's heart.It felt like this book came together awfully fast, and they confessed to the crime almost within minutes.
This doesn't feel natural as most children will stick to the lie much longer than that - which then leads to the problem of coming clean when you've been sitting on the truth.
So the story comes out feeling rushed.
I love how it's expressed that it's not the broken lamp which causes the disappointment, but the act of lying.Not a bad story for the topic, but there are better choices out there I think.
The Berenstain Bears always have a great lesson intertwined in their stories and this one is extremely important: the truth.
The cubs break a lamp and lie about what happened to it.
Mother knows that the cubs are lying and eventually tells them that she did not even care about the lamp, she just wanted them to tell the truth.
This is an important lesson to teach children.
Parents should stress that telling the truth is always more important than what they did wrong because it is a good quality to have, especially from a young age.
While Momma and Papa Bear are away the cubs are left alone to play.
They come up with a “brilliant” idea to play soccer in the house.
While Brother Bear is trying to slide past Sister Bear he kicks the ball and Sister Bear blocks it with her knee which inevitably breaks Momma Bear’s favorite lamp.
When Momma Bear comes home Brother and Sister Bear make up a story about how the lamp got broken.
The events that unfold help the cubs to learn a valuable lesson about the importance of being honest.
I would use this book to illustrate the importance of honesty.
Trust is one thing that you can't put back together once it's broken. This book brings back memories... I used to read this when I was little, I remember loving it back then. I remember loving the colourful illustrations. It certainly has sentimental value. Which is probably why I gave it such a high rating. Honestly though, rereading it know... the story just seems like a means to an end. Like it's just there to teach you the lesson. Everybody makes mistakes, and that's okay, it happens. But l
Trust is one thing that you can't put back together once it's broken.
This book brings back memories...
I used to read this when I was little, I remember loving it back then.
I remember loving the colourful illustrations.
It certainly has sentimental value.
the story just seems like a means to an end.
Like it's just there to teach you the lesson.
But lying is an awful thing to do.
And telling a lie is worse than the actual act of disobedience.
It's just telling you what's right and what's wrong.
And that's the end of that.
This was a great book to read to a child who has trouble telling the truth.
The setting is similar to what most of us experienced as a child.
By showing a young reader how much of a hole you may dig yourself in if you continue to lie, the more and more it is clear to see how it is much easier to tell the truth.
The book is a great and simple way to show young children how much better it is to tell the truth, no matter how bad it may seem.
I remember enjoying this one a lot.
However, as a young reader this only made me disappointed in the main characters for not being slick enough to get away with it.
I went away thinking, if I ever lie, be sure to keep my story straight and then I'll never get caught.
Instead of teaching kids not to lie because it's really hard to pull it off, it should be another example of the golden rule.
Teach kids about the great temptation of lying but also about the upset of finding out you yourself have been lied to.
Мечетата Беранстийн са истинска класика сред американските детски книжки. Класика като Доктор Сюс и неговите римувани небивалици. Класика като Любопитния Джордж на Маргрет и Х.А.Рей. Или като голямото червено куче Клифърд на Норман Бридуел. И точно като тези класики, Мечетата Беранстийн са (почти) непознати на българските деца. Време е да променим това! Прочетете ревюто на "Книжни Криле":https://knijnikrile.wordpress.com/201...
Honesty and taking responsibility for our mistakes or side stepping them is an issue that each child has to wrestle with.
But the sooner we learn the value of honesty and the value of taking responsibility for our mistakes the happier we are and the happier those around us are.
I think that Stan and Jan Berenstain have done such a good job covering many of the issues that children run in to.
I am thankful for books that teach us like this one does.
Life is much easier when we can learn from books instead of learning from the school of hard knocks.
This book deals with the classic scenario that is created when children are left alone. Parents hope that there children will be obedient, safe, and considerate in their abscense. They often return home to find something broken. Once something is already broken a new dilemma forms: will your children lie to you or tell you the truth about what they did? In a classroom this could promote trust and teach the class that telling the truth is always beneficial and lying will only make things worse.
I really liked this book. It teaches the importance of being honest. I think this is a great way to teach children a very important social skill. It is also very family oriented. It is very easy to understand and the pictures are great. I love Berenstain Bears. Good lessons for everyone, young and old!! I recommend this for teachers and parents. I read it to my almost 4 year old daughter, and she understood the "moral" of the story and wanted to read it over and over and over!!
When Brother and Sister Bear accidentally break Mama's favorite lamp, their little lie grows bigger and bigger until Papa Bear helps them find the words that set everything right again. I really enjoyed this book because it teaches a moral issue to the children I would use this book to teach about the importance of telling the truth in the classroom. I would use this book in a thematic unit about good choices.
This is another great book to share with students because the lesson will be important forever. I can connect right away because my mother and I are constantly telling my sister that it is hard to believe anything she says because she is caught in lies so much. There is a lot of body language that can be discussed with students as well as body parts. I would follow this book by reading The Boy Who Cried Wolf.
This book does a great job of showing the story through the illustrations. I think this book could be a used to teach children about making predictions. Brother and Sister Bear accidentally break their mom's favorite lamp. They tell a small lie that ends up getting out of hand. They finally realize that telling the truth will make everything write again. The book teaches the students a lesson and it can be used to teach students about the main idea of a fiction book.
This book is about the bear cubs that were playing ball in the house and broke Mama Bear's favorite lamp. The kids then try to lie to cover up their bad actions. When they had to repeat their lie to Papa Bear, they couldn't remember how the lie went the first time, so they got caught in the lie. The underlying theme is that if you lie, you will get caught. Also, once you have broken trust, it is difficult to rebuild that trust.
This is a great book to read for understanding sequencing. This book is also a great book to do a character study activity since there are a lot of Berenstain Bears books. I think students will enjoy these books because they are fun books to read and listen to. This is also a great book to explain why telling the truth is important. This concept is hard for kids to grasp, but this book does a good job explaining it in a fun way.
Berenstain bears books are great because children can relate to them and they teach an endless amount of life lessons. The truth in particular is good, because when we can show our students that honesty is a big part of respecting everyone in our class, we have a much more unified school experience.
This was another one of my childhood favorites. I love this book because it is a fun one for kids but also because it teaches young kids a good lesson, which is to tell the truth. I also like this book because it is a picture book but it is a little longer of a picture book so it is good for an older reader. All of the Stan Berenstain books are very well written books with good lessons for kids.
Love this book. It teaches students how to take responsibility for their actions. It shows students how lying can get out of control, and most times students will forget the lie. So, instead of going through that it encourages students to always tell the truth no matter what. This book can be used for all ages. Includes lots of humors.
