https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/271685.Five_Smooth_Stones
This huge novel should be required reading for anyone who thinks it's no big deal that Barack Obama spent eight years in the White House.
Five Smooth Stones spans four decades of American history, from the Great Depression to the Civil Rights Movement of the 1950s and 1960s.
David Champlin, a black man, grows up impoverished but in an emotionally rich environment in his grandfather's household in New Orleans, where white supremacy is unquestioned and officially sanctioned discrimination is rampant.
The struggle, as we all know, is ongoing, and each triumph comes at a great cost.
This was on the bottom of an extra-credit reading list my freshman year of high school. For a 14-year-old white girl living a very insulated life, this book was a world-shaker. I still refuse to believe it's a novel - the story was so vivid the characters will always be to me, more than fiction.
This is an incredible story of an African-American young man growing up and pursuing his education during the turbulent sixties. My mom recommended this book to me, which she hadn't read since the year it was published sometime in the sixties. Written during the period during which it takes place, the book explores the complexities of growing up black in the South, single parenthood, interracial relationships, and, of course, prejudice. I loved this book.
This is with out a doubt my favorite book of all time. I read it first in High School--lost if for a while and rediscovered it in the early 80's and have read it at least once every year since. Powerful and moving--I like to give it as a gift.
This book was a contradiction in terms for me, like a lot of woman my age I read this when in the early 70's.
My entire book club read this book and most had also read it 30 yrs ago.
40 years ago, this book with it steamy romance between Sara and David was pretty racy and generated much controversy.
The picture it paints regarding race relations, interacial dating, 40 years ago are no longer the case.
To enjoy ths book in 2009, I suggest reading it in the context that this was the perception in the late 50's and early 60's.
Wow. I first read this as a teenager and remember it being one of my all time favorite books.
That said, as an adult, I couldn't remember it at all, so I decided to reread it.
I just wanted it to be more about the main characters and their love story.
It's a really, really long book, almost 800 pages.
The time period is so interesting, but she just spent way too much time on the inner workings of the civil rights movement and I got totally bored.
She created some wonderful characters and I just wish she had spent more time developing that.
I loved this book! It is the story of a black man born in New Orleans during the Great Depression. It is his life story and goes through the Civil Rights movement. I learned things I didn't know about this time in history and it made me step back and reassess my own prejudices. This is a long book, but it moved quickly. Rated PG for a little bit of language. It dealt with some tough issues and I thought it was done very tastefully.
I first read this in high school (early-mid 1970's) and loved it.
I have often referred to it as a favorite book but really couldn't remember much about it so thought I should re-read it for a third time twenty-eight years later.
He goes to a northern, private college on a scholarship where he meets Sara - middle class, white, non-religious, smart and from the mid-west.
The story is primarily David's -- as he struggles with his identity, his love for Sara, his devotion and love for his people during a time of crisis.
A good book for its time.
my mentor recommended this book to me and stated, "this is the besk book i have ever read." coming from someone who loved kingsolver, plath and salinger, this really meant something to me. this is a wonderful novel that touched me in many ways, it is well written and would be interesting to anyone who is even remotely intrigued by prejudice, jim crow laws, and the struggle between races. this is a heavy and emotional novel that takes a lot of investment with 900 pages but i would recommend it to other avid readers.
I read this book 50 years ago in 1968 the summer before I started high school. I still remember it as one of the best books I EVER read and it had such an impact on me at very young age. I want to read it again
My mother had to hide this from me in high school--I was supposed to be studying but i couldn't stop reading.
It's also an insanely romantic love story, which made the bitter pill of its message (about race in America in the Civil Rights era) a lot easier for my 16-year-old throat to swallow.
It's terribly sad and, I think, completely out of print, but I loved this book when I read it.
I might find it to be embarrassingly dated and corny if I read it today.
I love thinking about the first time I encountered it.
The first time I read this book was in 1976.
I have an original hard cover from 1966.
I periodically pick it up most recently in February of this year and every time I am drawn into the storyline.
It is an inter-racial love story in a time when that was not acceptable.
The main character, David Champlain, is trying to help his "people" during the Civil Rights movement while juggling his love of Sarah Kent, a white woman who fell in love with him when she met him.
Ann Fairbairn has written this to where you can really "see" the emotional struggles, the anguish of the two lovers and she really captures the challenges of the era.
The cover of Five Smooth Stones describes the story as "A monumental novel of forbidden love." It purports to be the story of a marriage between a black man and a white woman during the civil rights movement.
The story focuses on the life of David Champlin who is raised by his grandfather in New Orleans, wins a scholarship to a college in Ohio (in a foreshadowing of Affirmative Action, he is one of several black students chosen to attend this almost all-white college), attends law school at Harvard, becomes a lawyer in Boston, then is moved to join the forces that are just beginning to mobilize in the South.
I read this book for the first time when I was either in high school or just starting college...anyway it really touched me to the soul & I never forgot this book in all the years since!
It is a story of David (a young, intelligent & motivated) black man from the South (New Orleans) and his only love - Sara - a white girl born and raised in the North.
He tries over and over again to NOT have a relationship with Sara; but their love keeps pulling them back together.
It is a history lesson within this very touching love story.
Instead, when it ends in a tragedy so quickly after it was finally all getting resolved, it just makes me frustrated!
Maybe its because it was written when there was still so much unhappiness in the country (1966), the author might have felt that she couldn't give the book a happy ending because there was no happy ending for the United States at that point.
My biggest wish at this point is that either I, or the author had stopped just a bit earlier, and then I could have felt resolved instead of frustrated and disappointed.Overall, interesting read, very eye opening, disappointing ending.
I read this many, many years ago and just recently decided to read it again!
It had a huge impact on me then, but now, with experiences I've had it has even more.
The writing is excellent!
I, personally, think this book should be required reading in every high school in the states.
They take things for granted and I think they should be aware of the battles that took place for them.
The battle still goes on, as it must.
In too many places in this country things haven't changed for the better enough....
in others it hasn't changed at all.
Hands down my favorite book. Hard to find (especially since it is now out of print) but definitley worth it.
He will move on to do great things, become a highly visible leader in the black struggle, and will rise above the obstacles of race and poverty to obtain an education at Harvard and Oxford.Five Smooth Stones is one of the best books I have ever read that left a resounding impact on me the reader.
The story was about undeniable love between a black man and white woman.
This is one the most positive imageries of blacks rising above racism to demands their worth in life.
I love this book for its positive image.
In an age where Barack Obama is President of the United States, and there have been both black men and women serving in the highest posts of the American military and government, it is easy to forget how recent it is that African Americans had to struggle for their most basic civil rights.
Attempts to make it more difficult to register to vote in recent elections is the United States is one reminder, this book is another.Five Smooth Stones (a reference to David preparing to battle Goliath in the old testament) is the story of a black man living with his family's violent past and his struggles as a black man in the fifties and early sixties.
LOVED IT!
I'm on a civil rights movement kick and this one was recommended to me by my mother.
She said it was her favorite book when she was in college.
This seems to be a theme among people who have reviewed this book!This is a tumultuous story about a boy that grows up during the civil rights movement in America.
He is one of only a few black students accepted to a northern university.
It follows the progression of events in the civil rights movement as seen through one man's eyes.
You love the good guys, you hate the bad guys.
This book brings to acute understanding the life of David Champlin, a black born in the south, educated at Harvard.
When David's grandfather is killed in a racist street attack, David leaves his high powered career and goes back to the south to help his people.
Omstead of the sword that David was to use to slew Goliath, he, like the David in the Bible uses the 'five smooth stones'.
These stones represent skill, wisdom, dedication, nonviolence and love.
The character development in this book is outstanding as the reader comes to love David and all of his friends and associates.
While I really liked this book I didn't give it 5 stars because I thought it was a little long, David Champlin was almost too good to be true and I thought the dialogue was stilted.
Having said that it made me think more about that time in our history and how hard life was for black people.
Today's black youth should have to read this book and be very thankful that some people (both black and white but mostly black) were strong enough and brave enough to face what they did to make a better world for all of us.
I finished reading this book a few days ago and it's still with me.
It was one of the most incredible books I've ever read.
For me, it was one of those books that changes you.
The story spans some 30 years and you get to know the characters intimately.
From the depression to the civil rights era, the journey with the characters is moving, heart-aching at times and very thought provoking.
It was one of several books I've read in my life that I cried very hard while reading.
For anyone interested in a not-so-light, intense story, it's a must read.
This is a novel that I have never forgotten. I was fourteen and I recall that it actually was my mother's, and we were on holidays and I got to read it first. I was sitting on the beach when I came to the end, and I flushed and broke out into tears and promptly had to tell my mom all about it. My mom wasn't delighted. I need to read this again...
Read this with a book club. The majority of the 20 women felt that the length of the book and lengthy details caused some parts of the story to drag. Great description of a horrible part in history but wish it would have been more concise to hold every readers attention. This book made for wonderful book club discussions.
This book is about an interacial relationship which was pretty controversial in the 60s. I just got drawn in by the story and couldn't put the book down. It covers many years which was the kind of story I liked at the time. I often wonder if I would still love this book at much now.
Only just remembered this morning (when I was picking up and weighing in my palm three beautiful smooth stones from my cabinet of curiosities which I was dusting) that I'd read this book many years back!
I think I first read this book way back in the 8th grade. It was such a moving book that I went out and bought it for my mother and we both have re-read it more than once. It is a very gripping book.
This story, largely the story of one young black man who grows up in poverty and in the heart of the racist culture of New Orleans, who goes on to become highly educated and successful.
While this is at heart a love story, it is also a story of deep commitment and sacrifice to family and to one's people.
The story of racism in our country runs so deep, and just as with the Holocaust, we can never be reminded too often of the price black people have already paid and to continue to pay for their freedom and for their basic rights.
David Champlin will go down as memorable as Atticus Finch, although, in this instance, he (Champlin) takes a much bigger stand on the subject of race. This book was phenomenal from beginning to end. The storylines, the friendships, the love stories and heartaches, but deep down it's a positive message to those of us who come later. A must read.
