https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/317621.The_Witches_of_Karres
But sometimes plot is over-rated, and in this case it serves as nothing more than a bare bones structure to hang a series of adventure on.As a note about the plot -Witches of Karres starts with the captain of an aging but fast tramp freighter rescuing three children with psychic powers from the clutches of an Empire hunting for their homeworld, then escalates rapidly to a space battle against Worm World, a world-sized battleship commanded by a robotic being in black armour.

Pedophilia trigger. These are not witches disguised as children, but rather children who have developed certain talents. And there is much talk with the captain of approaching marriageable age, which is apparently 16, at least for girls.
Sure, there are spaceships and ray guns and various unexplained technological devices but there are also fantastic magical powers, creatures from beyond our universe and the fate of worlds resting on a bumbling starship captain and a few young girls.
This book is all about the fun.
There's no deeper message, no working out the implications of a new technology or scientific discovery, just a man and three rescued slaves trying to get home and having whacky adventures along the way.
Sometimes, that's all we want from a book, and Witches delivers just that.
2.5 stars. Decent but not great. It could be that since I had just finished Santiago by Mike Resnick (which I thought was fantastic) and another good Discworld novel by Terry Pratchett (Sourcery), this book suffered from the comparison between those other books. I may re-read this in the future as I seem to be in the minority of not loving this book. Still, it was fairly entertaining. Nominee: Hugo Award Best Novel.
This is one of my favorites!!! A dazzling adventure with witches, spaceships and a dangerous species from another dimension.And in the midst of it there is the Captain who only wanted to make enough money and gain a good reputation to marry his secret fiancee. But there is a little witch who has other plans ....This book is just a lot of fun, very good written and with an original storyline.
remember it even then as rather fantasy dressed in science fiction clothing...so as an adult read it as a book- twice- perhaps interested in nostalgia, discovered it as a novel, thought well it was up for a Hugo in 67, so maybe it is good, maybe i had missed something, maybe i would learn what works in sci-fi.
thought of ways it might appeal to genre readers: fun, simple, satirical.
so maybe this is interesting in a historical way, is actually innovative in comic tone that requires readers of the day to make satirical connections to other, typical, 'space operas'...
Schmitz started this series of two books finsihed with "The Wizard of Karres." I first read the Witches when I was a young person and remember that I liked it very much.
It's about a scifi piece about a spaceship captain that rescues three little girls who have been enslaved on a miserable planet.
He buys them and then takes them to their far off home planet of Karres.
Turns out the "little Wisdoms" are witches who can manipulate a mysterious Klatha energy.
Schmitz died before he could finish the second book, so it was finished by others in his style and it too was charming.
Excellent! A wonderful - I guess the word would be rollicking - read. In many ways, it reminds me of those old sci-fi serials. It seemed like they'd gotten through one life-threatening crisis when another one hit!It's hard to believe this was written in 1966! I felt like there was nothing that really dated this. It was fun, humorous, exciting... I loved it.
Space opera fun!
Roughly the first third of this was originally a short story (1949), and the main character reminded me strongly of Han Solo.
The plot expands beyond that point, and it eventually became the shared world of other writers resulting in a trilogy.
Nominated for the 1967 Hugo award, it's just plain fun.This is probably my first exposure to this author, known as "a craftsman writer" who wrote many strong female characters.
The three juvenile witches are certainly savvy in the ways of the universe.
Not one of the common sci fi names, I look forward to for hunting his books in the obscure shelves of Seattle.
Storyline: 3/5Characters: 3/5Writing Style: 3/5World: 3/5Some authors have the uncanny ability put abruptness, slapdash, underdevelopment, and ludicrousness to good use.
James H.
Schmitz gave us a fun tale without pretension.
The Witches of Karres warded off hard science fiction strictures and instead effortlessly embraced the weird.
This playful jumble started to cohere at about two-thirds of the way through the book, to the detriment of the tale.
As the plot coalesced into a more traditional format, I was inclined to appreciate it by more traditional standards.
I would have liked it more had Schmitz been able to complete the story as erratically as it began.
Still, it was fun.
Truly horrible.
There aren't any structure or order in any of the story elements.
It was like I was swimming in a torrent of meaningless words and sentences which do not connect with each other to form a shape to suck you into the story.
The story itself was interesting but the execution fails miserably.
Even the basic physics laws are ignored.Though I don't like to drop a book halfway, this book didn't leave me any choice at all.
I needed to drop it to get away from the horrendous torture.
This one's an old SF classic with a little bit of witchcraft mixed in. It's been a while since I've read it, but there was space travel, and some kind of special warp drive, powered by magic. The magic comes from three sisters, who are the witches of the title. They meet a pilot, and he is helpless in their clutches. He falls for one of them, but they have other plans. Lots of fun, I love the mix of SF and witchcraft, and the sly sense of humor the sisters have.
I tend to prefer character centric novels with a decisively psychological slant, as opposed to plot centric novels with a philosophical slant.
) Schmitz is not a frustrated philosopher like many of his contemporaries were, which may explain why his works aren't quite as famous?
I mean, I wrote a stand-alone book that people wanted me to write a sequel too, and I think it works better as stand-alone.
(I only know that because someone wrote it in a review on Amazon.)The sequels are written by good writers...but it feels a bit like reading published fanfic.
Dear me, 1967 can't have been a good year if this got onto the Hugo shortlist.
Humorously incompetent space captain inadvertently rescues three young girls, and then discovers they are from the titular planet, where everyone has magical powers.
This is complete nonsense, and not even very amusing.
At one point, his ship detects another ships "just ahead, some nine light years away".
We can currently detect planets at that distance by their effects on their parent star.
People writing this nonsense seem to think space is no bigger than the Atlantic ocean.
Complete rubbish.
This is classic '60's space opera, which hold up well today.
It takes place in a universe in the far future when humans have spread throughout the galaxy and have speciated to some extend, most obviously those humans known as the Witches of Karres.
The Witches seem to have magic, or to be able to sense and manipulate a strange force in the universe enabling them to manipulate matter in various ways.
Sounds a bit like Star Wars, no?
I was hoping for much more to read in this universe.
Recommended for all space opera fans!.
Young Capt Pausert is like the proverbial the duck out of water in dealing with three young women he rescues.
In trying to return them to their parents after freeing them from slavery he discovers they really are members of a group he had considered urban legends.
Maleen, Goth, and the Leewit direct him to their home world where he finds they are witches from the not so mythical planet Karres.Now he finds having actually met the witches he is subject to laws concerning contact with this group and the focus of many disparate groups all seeking knowledge of the witches abilities.
Seventh and last volume of the complete works by James H. Schmitz published by Baen Books, edited by Eric Flint. It contains the novel of the same title, which starting from a simple idea (the protagonist's meeting with three witch sisters, children of the witch planet of Karres) goes through always more involved adventures and convoluted solutions until a wild crazy ending beyond all probabilities, where the protagonist solves all the problems of the galaxy, invaded by aliens from another universe, by hooking to another being from a third universe.
Captain Pausert is just minding his own business (and making a tidy profit while doing it) when three witch girls decide to turn his life upside-down and inside-out. What do you do when suddenly the fate of the galaxy hangs in the balance and death seems inevitable? You bring extra sandwiches!This is a typical J. Schmitz adventure, not stuffy sci-fi, very charming. It didn't disappoint. (78/100)If anyone is going to give Schmitz a try, read Demonbreed/The Tuvela first, it's even better!
This book reminds me of Flash Gordon with three young witches. The first chapter (which was based on the short story) was actually pretty good. After that, the book gets more chaotic and harder to understand, especially near the end. Some of this has to do with the hand-waiving from the witch's "magic" and the laws of physics Schmitz seems to suspend at times. He also has the tendency to create a scene only to explain what went on at a later time.
This reprint of the 1966 classic is a thoroughly enjoyable and hard to put down book. When Captain Pausert of Nikkeldepain rescues three children from slavery, he has no idea what he is getting himself into, nor does he realize they are witches from the proscribed and mysterious planet of Karres. All of the major characters in this novel are very engaging and the adventure Schmitz crafts for them is as fresh today as the best of any current books in this genre. Read this book!
I bought this on the generally very good reviews, but was quite dissapointed, really.There are no glaring flaws with this novel, solid structure and competent writing.However it simply didnt do anything for me, i felt no connection whatsoever to any of the characters or really cared what was going on.Also the science aspect of the science-fiction is pretty much non existent, only serving as a cardboard cutout backdrop to the story, the same with the fantasy/magic aspects
Read this for fun, it's a romp--no pretensions to being great literature, just out to sell/tell a fine story. recommended for lovers of classic sf.
Amusing and entertaining throughout. Thoroughly enjoyable!
I think I must have first read this decades ago in high school, but it still appeals.A young man, Captain Pausert, is on his way home from his first trading run, having made enough profit to begin paying off his heavily mortgaged spaceship.
Rescuing her two younger sisters eats up the rest of his profits.On their way home, the three girls use magic to give his ship a boost to outrun space pirates.
On leaving Karres with his cargo holds full of contraband, a young stowaway witch, and both legal authorities and pirates after his rumoured new drive mechanism, his troubles really begin.
Captain Pausert seems to have become a plaything of the fates when he buys three adorable, troublemaking little girls who turned out to be witches.
After a sojourn on the witches' home planet, he begins developing some unexpected talents of his own that attract the attention of a giant Vatch, and now he knows why he feels like a plaything.
He is pushed into a confrontation with the most deadly menace humanity has faced - because the giant Vatch doesn't feel equal to the challenge itself.I was in the mood for cuteness, and definitely didn't get it!
Loved this book when I first read it as a teenager, and I still love it.
There is a lot about it that is common to a lot of Sci fi written in the 60's, and I suspect the author was perhaps inspired by Asimov's 'Foundation' series for it's empire theme, but the concept of a planet peopled entirely by folk who have control over a mysterious force called 'klatha', brings the Star Wars saga to mind.
This book was written earlier however.
In any case the characters are compelling and the plot moves along nicely.
As it turns out, there is a sequel.
Summary: Quite fun but a bit dated and a hap hazard plot. And the premise on which the book is founded is a bit weak. Good writing, interesting charactersPlotline: The plot grows in the telling and doen't feel coordinated or thoroughPremise: Interesting but not believable or particularly consistentWriting: Good characterisations, simple, rushed at timesEnding: Satisfactory and the next book introducedPace: Never a dull moment!
Una Space Opera dal taglio molto classico, che forse ha risentito un po' del passare degli anni.Il ritmo è abbastanza buono e molti dei temi di genere sono trattati con originalità e con una sottile vena di ironia. La narrazione purtroppo non conquista mai definitvamente il lettore: manca il Sense of Wonder proprio di tante opere analoghe.
Read this at the insistence of a friend, felt the flow was a bit inconsistent, parts of the book moved to slow, and then suddenly some parts started moving faster and were more exciting. I enjoyed it, although you can tell it's super dated, however, there are some parts that surprised me because of when it was written.
