https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/759586.Paper_Money
You Win Some, You Lose Some(A Book Review of Paper Money by Ken Follett)What links the lives of a ruthless gangster, a sneaky businessman, an adulterous minister, and a young journalist, each a stranger to another, together?Power…Ambition…Paper money…Formerly published under the pseudonym Zachary Stone, Paper Money, one of  Ken Follett ’s early caper reissued to quench the curiosity of hard-core fans interested about his earlier works prior his rise to fame, tells an intriguing plot concerning s
You Win Some, You Lose Some(A Book Review of Paper Money by Ken Follett)What links the lives of a ruthless gangster, a sneaky businessman, an adulterous minister, and a young journalist, each a stranger to another, together?Power…Ambition…Paper money…Formerly published under the pseudonym Zachary Stone, Paper Money, one of 
, Paper Money is still one nice read despite it being dated, will grab your interest if only for a foothold, and gives a fleeting glimpse of London during the 70s as well as the writing of a young Ken Follett._________________________Book Details: Book #20 for 2011Published by Signet Books(Mass Market Paperback, 1987 First Printing)253 pagesStarted: June 2, 2011Finished: June 5, 2011My Rating:★★★[See this review on my book blog 
Penso que também a premissa do livro seria conduzente a esta insatisfação.O livro é passado desde as 7 da manhã de determinado dia até ás 16h oras do mesmo e centra-se numa imensidão de personagens, ás quais vai acontecer uma cadeia de eventos que, no fim desse dia podem dar um escândalo a nível nacional ou não.
Não achei nenhum personagem relevante o suficiente para eu me preocupar com ele mas o autor consegue em poucas paginas e poucas palavras dar-nos um conhecimento mais ou menos profundo desse personagem.
Paper Money was written just before, in 1976, and is described by the author in the introduction as “the best of my unsuccessful books.”Maybe, but it still didn’t work too well for me.
This caper novel lacked a central character but instead told the story from a number of different characters’ point-of-view.
Each chapter is devoted to a single hour of the day, and the whole thing is told in chronological order.
Some of the chapters were quite enjoyable while others were not, depending on the character involved.
I’ve read other novels that employ this method and they have worked well but this one lost its cohesion early on.
A very fast paced, cut-to-cut novel by Ken Follett.
It is not the better known works by the author; infact 'the new introduction' by him, seemed a little apologetic to me.
I don't see any reason to do that, if that was the intention.He calls this book "the best of his unsuccessful books".
Well well well!This was my first Ken Follett book, so I do not know why it was 'unsuccessful'...
Maybe, that his other works were better, or racier...
As a stand-alone work, I found this book pretty decent.The entire book covers just one day.
Follett maintains his pace throughout the length of the story.
On est bien loin des Piliers de la Terre C'est un court roman sur les magouilles politiques et les liens entre argent plus ou moins sales (Londres des années 1970)Pour moi, le seul intérêt a été la construction littéraire (exercice de style) avec le parti-pris de l'auteur de ne donner la primeur à aucun de ses personnages dont les vies font, en fait, par leur vacuité ou leur cynisme , froid aux tripes et désespérer grandement de la nature humaine...
Quest'opera, che precede di un solo anno La cruna dell'ago, primo importante successo di pubblico di Follett (e prima opera pubblicata col suo vero nome), è solitamente inclusa nel catalogo dei suoi lavori minori, anche se la complessità della struttura narrativa, il numero e la caratterizzazione dei personaggi e la riuscita rappresentazione del macroambiente (la swingin' London degli anni '70) e dei microambienti correlati (la City, la malavita, la stampa) sono tipici delle sue opere più mature.La descrizione della trama: Siamo a Londra negli anni Settanta.
Una trama poco incalzante piatta e assolutamente senza alcun tipo di colpi di scena, neanche nel finale.Lo considero uno dei peggiore romanzi di Follett insieme a "Lo scandalo Modigliani" e "Il pianeta dei bruchi".
I will caution you to have time to read a good section before putting it down.
I only read a few chapters before going to bed and didn't get back to it for a few days.
This lead to having to look back to what I had already read since this book involves a day in the life of many characters.
You will read about one and that character won't appear again for 6-7 chapters.
A young reporter spends a day putting together various stories and later finds out that they are tied together.


Quando comprei o livro não me apercebi que era uma obra relativa à fase de "crescimento" do autor. Como os seus admiradores sabem, Follet só começou a ganhar fama depois de ter escrito uma dúzia de livros. "O Preço do Dinheiro", escrito em 1977, pertence a esse período inicial.É uma historieta bem urdida - já se nota nela o dedo que lhe traria fama e fortuna - que se lê com agrado. Recomendo-a a quem gosta de ler em viagem, ou tem de estar aquelas longas horas que passaram a ser "lei" nos aeroportos.
Just read this one for the second time on a plane. As it did the first time, it left me wanting more. The plot line has potential, but also seems a little basic and cliched. There are so many characters, but they are so underdeveloped that no one becomes important or likable. Follett admits in the intro that he "underwrote" on this one, and I completely agree. This book should be twice the length it is - I like all of the story lines, but never get complete satisfaction.
Foi o meu primeiro livro que li do Ken Follett e sinceramente não gostei muito. É um livro policial, mas achei que pôs muitas personagens e o livro ficou um pouco confuso pelo menos para mim. Decididamente não sou muito ligada aos polícias pelo autor Ken Follett. No entanto para quem goste deste tipo de género poderá ler...http://aviciadadoslivros.blogspot.pt/...
Worst ken follett book. I got to the end, still trying to swipe to new pages on my iPad. I couldn't believe that was the end. It was like the falling action and conclusion Got lost! It was a very slow start with too many characters that were very similar, but just as it got a tiny bit interesting, the end! What a waste of my reading time!
This is the second experimental/off beat or unconventional Ken Follett novel that I've read after The Modigliani Scandal where he thought a detailed introduction was necessary.
I've put a snap of the introduction which gives quite a comprehensive idea about the book and whether you should pick it up or not.
First of all, anyone who gets hold of this book, please read it in a single sitting (I couldn't) if you want to thoroughly enjoy it.
The characters are very colourful and it takes great mastery to create so many in such a short novel.
more of a 2.5 stars. Not enough character development but a good plot skeleton. Glad his later works improved on this and didnt skimp on pages as this one did. At the end of the day its a good quick holiday read
more like a 3.5. clever book, plot lines were intertwined, with no major character. kept me intrigued up to the end, but felt like the ending needed a little bit more length to it.

Foi o 1o livro que li de Ken Follett e posso dizer que me agradou bastante para voltar a ler outro livro seu. História e enredo bastante interessantes e cativantes... leitura leve e por vezes com intriga e enredos suficientes para não queremos parar de ler. Que venha o próximo e que se igual ou melhor!
Comme toujours avec ken follet un bon bouquin et une tranche d'histoires. Les personnages sont intéressants notamment le journaliste qui a une approche de son métier particulière.
Esta lectura me pareció demasiado irregular porque si bien la trama prometía, la primera parte se siente demasiado desenfocada, me refiero a que uno nunca queda claro de lo que pretende contar cual sería el hilo conductor con el tema de la corrupción. Desde la mitad empieza a mejorar un poco, la acción apenas está bien escrita, aunque de aquí al final empieza a sentirse bastante predecible aunque no es tanto como para odiarlo en sí. En resumen yo esperaba mucho más y resulto bastante insatisfactorio.
De los primeros libros de Ken FOllet, que después se dedicaría a escribir novelas históricas. Esto, nada que ver. Una novela cuasi policial, con algunas vueltas de tuerca muy bien pensadas, enmarcada en el sistema financiero de eeuu. Tiene un estilo típico que no puedo definir, de los best sellers de la época en que fue escrito.
dentro de um estilo completamente diferente do que Ken Follet me habituou,esta trama é mais política e económica e não tive a sensação de deslumbramento pelo livro logo de início como é de costume.assim sendo,afirmo que gosto mais de um Ken Follett que me faz prender da 1ª á última página e das aventuras que leio de um só fôlego,este ficou muito aquém das espectativas.
You know I just could not get into this book. It was just plain boring and yes I read about 3/4's of the book before I quit. I just was not going anywhere. A ramble of boringness (if there is such a word).

Ken Follett says he was "almost good" when he wrote Paper Money.
The novel is set London in the mid-1970s.
It tells the story of three seemingly unrelated incidents.
The action takes place over 24 hours.
He's reached a turning point in his life.Follett skilfully weaves a web of intrigue that culminates in a climax that brings all the loose threads together.
There's no main character but each character is well drawn and not the superficial sketch common suspense novels like this.Follett's introduction makes it clear the novel is an early work but it's a fast-paced, enjoyable and engaging novel.
This was a fast paced book, and although it didn't have the usual depth of Follett, it made for enjoyable reading.
A shorter book that felt more like a movie than an mini-series, it turned into a fun treat as the bad guys -- Tony Cox (robbing the armored car), Felix Laski (buying a company with money he didn't have at the moment), Ellen Hamilton (getting away with her affair), and Deaf Willie's son (killing Tony Cox's mother and dog) -- seemingly end up getting away with their actions in the end.
Definitely worth reading if you're a fan of Ken Follett.
A random pick up for me as i 've never read any Follett novels.
As the book contains mostly characters/occupations i despise a banker, gangster (not much difference between these two) , politician and journalist it was an ok read with a variety of characters stories overlapping which is reminiscent today of a guy ritchie or tarantino film.
This however was written in the 70's so casual racism and sexism are the norm and i feel the funniest is that the reporters/journalist and editors of the paper are portrayed as having integrity and a conscience , but seeing as Ken Follett worked for a newspaper this is why they are probably portrayed as the good guys.
I had to write down the characters with a short description of them on a piece of paper to keep track of them.
It's a short read (that's the good news) and it all SORT OF ties together in the end with some holes remaining.
Follet would have been better off removing literally half the characters and having a better organized developed plot and characters.
As I said the characters were so underdeveloped I'd pick up the book and wonder "who is this person?" that I had to write notes of who was who and why were they there.
Reader's of other Follett works should be aware that Paper Money, whilst an excellent read, is a slight departure from Follett's normal fare.
Like the epic Eye of the Needle the reader is lead through the thinking behind dark plans.
One of the key threads of the plot follows not just whether justice will prevent these plans but searches for what justice for those involved might be.Whilst Paper Money was not one of Follett;s biggest sellers, the climax alone is a good reason to buy this book.
If you like a thriller which asks more than whether the bad guy(s) will be caught, it's well worth a look.
This was a different work, an earlier one, and as the author himself alludes to, it doesn't abide by standard thriller specifications.There's a huge cast of characters, a sprawling plot with no apparent heros and lots of threads to be tied together by the end.
That does happen, although I though the ending a bit abrupt.
I don't mind that it's not really a happy ending, and all the characters seem to get resolved, but it all happens incredibly quickly.No complaints though, it's a really interesting piece in the size of the cast, the story without a lead, and the fact that it all seems to happen and be resolved with no major consequences.
