https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3892153-the-work-of-art-in-the-age-of-mechanical-reproduction
“Even the most perfect reproduction of a work of art is lacking in one element: its presence in time and space, its unique existence at the place where it happens to be.” ---------- We have to go to Kyoto to experience the real Zen garden; not nearly the same thing as looking at a photograph.“Process reproduction is more independent of the original than manual reproduction.
“The situations into which the product of mechanical reproduction can be brought may not touch the actual work of art, yet the quality of its presence is always depreciated.” ---------- I viewed this stunning Winslow Homer at an exhibition in New York.
And this before I even knew what they sell, or the prices they charge!Though I’m not a shopper, I do appreciate nice stores and stores with well-designed signs and windows, and even attractive interiors (though to enter a store with no intention of shelling out makes me self-conscious); but when I contemplate the actual mercantile nitty-gritty of such stores I get upset.
Paul Klee, Angelus Novus"This is how one pictures the angel of history.
His face is turned toward the past.
Where we perceive a chain of events, he sees one single catastrophe which keeps piling wreckage upon wreckage and hurls it in front of his feet.
But a storm is blowing from Paradise; it has got caught in his wings with such violence that the angel can no longer close them.
The storm irresistibly propels him into the future to which his back is turned, while the pile of debris before him grows skyward.
This storm is what we call progress."Drink pairing:
However, because film alienated it was ideally suited to Fascist propaganda or Marxist education.The second essay, "Franz Kafka: On the Tenth Anniversary of his Death", is a work that represents Benjamin's spiritual Jewish side.
Benjamin makes the points that Kafka's work was dominated by the theme of dread in the face of God's judgement and that Kafka felt oppressed by his father neither of which come as surprises.The last essay, "Picturing Proust" is particularly dreadful even if Benjamin's enthusiasm for the great French novelist is quite infectious.
His argument is that Proust's lampooning of snobbishness is Marxist in the Snobbishness in its essence is valuing art by its markets price rather than its spiritual quality.
An important reading on film theory to understand the nature of transformation in modern art due to the introduction of capitalism
El carácter trascendental del arte ha desaparecido completamente desde que la fotografía se dedicó a retratar escenarios de la vida cotidiana, paisajes urbanos que dejaban un trasfondo de hechos.
Arte y sociedad se retroalimentan el uno al otro, modificándose entre sí en una especie de pez que se muerde la cola.Interesante tesis, aunque le falta un trasfondo científico verdaderamente serio que lo respalde.
This book wasn’t what I expected but it still was an interesting read
Perfect size for the airplane trip. One of the Penguin Great Ideas series, this beautifully designed little edition of a new translation of Benjamin's classic essay on the nature of reproduction of images/art/film and what it mean aesthetically as well as culture changes in how we look at an object or work of art.Also included are essays on Kafka and Proust. Both are excellent.
Art is either for the cult, or for exhibition.
Before the "age of mechanical reproduction," art was more or less for the "cult" surrounding it, ie.
But when the work of art becomes merely another commodity, eyed by the masses, and ceasing to have a physical history, you lose that precious uniqueness and aura surrounding it.
It's obviously not a good thing to Benjamin, but it is what it is.
Benjamin is illuminating, but in the end futile.
Glad I read this the day after going to LA's Getty and MOCA art musems, it put the works in a much different context.
Nothing inherently seems sacred nor political about modern art.
A nice book containing three essays by Walter Benjamin, "The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction", "Franz Kafka - On the Tenth Anniversary of His Death" and "The Image of Proust".
I feel like some additional thoughts on media whose production is itself based on mechanical reproduction (i.e. photography or cinema) should have been present, but all in all it is a very cool read.Kudos to "The Image of Proust" for actually making me consider reading "In Search for Lost Time".
Hodnotim jen samotnou esej, přídavky o Kafkovi a Proustovi ne, protože na to nemám znalosti těch autorů. Vztah fašismus a estetizace umění? check. Distracted divák, který je ale od herce ve filmu oddělen ještě aparátem, který testuje herce, ztráta aury a možnosti kontemplace (v tomhle s Benjaminem nesouhlasím, jakkoliv je kontemplace klasicky na jednom obraze, proč by nešla kontemplovat struktura?) u sledování filmového pásu? Check. Psychoanalytické dopady mechanizace umění, které poprvé vyjevuje netušené aspekty tělesnosti? Mně se to líbilo :(
Here is Benjamin in the title essay, The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction, which oddly ends up discussing fascism: Fascism seeks to organize the newly emergent proletarianized masses without touching the property relations that those masses are so urgently trying to abolish.
The masses have a right to see the ownership structure changed: Fascism seeks to give them a voice in retaining that structure unaltered.
How about DJT?In the second essay Benjamin discusses Kafka, in a survey of concepts through what seems to be all Kafka’s novels and stories, with insights plucked from them like feathers from a headless chicken.
I bought this book for the titular essay, but stayed for the Kafka.
But in the last half of 2011 I kept coming across the titular essay contained in this collection.
I found the essay on mechanical reproduction evocative and compelling and thought it remarkably potent if applied to contemporary post-Benjamin technology such as the Internet.That said, the second essay, on Kafka is really the jewel in the crown of this collection.
Benjamin so expertly and economically sums up the experience of reading Kafka and gives opinion on why Kafka's work (much like Proust's (who is covered in the last essay of the volume)) is unlike any other writer to come before or after.
He waffles around the point, and by the time he's actually made it I've lost all interest, and going back to re-read passages seems to get me no closer to achieving a successful interpretation of his thoughts.It's not you Walt, it's me!
I was dozing halfway through the Kafka essay.
Too academic for its own good in places.But all the while, a very short read to I don't mean to deter anyone from giving it a go.
At least you won't be wasting much time if it doesn't float your boat, owing to the overall compactness.
The history of every art form shows critical epochs in which a certain art form aspires to effects which could be fully obtained only with a changed technical standard, that is to say, in a new art form.
The extravagances and crudities of art which thus appear, particularly in the so-called decadent epochs, actually arise from the nucleus of its richest historical energies.
It is only now that its impulse becomes discernible: Dadaism attempted to create by pictorial – and literary – means the effects which the public today seeks in the film.
Point de vue intéressant par rapport à la période durant laquelle ce livre a été écrit (début XXème).Une remise en question de notre approche à l'oeuvre d'art suite à l'arrivée de la photographie, puis du cinéma, transformant l'art alors réservé à une petite élite intellectuelle en une industrie destinée aux masses et vidée de son aura par le progrès technique.
Un bon début de réflexion sur la place de l'art dans la société, malheureusement beaucoup trop court mais invitant le lecteur à approfondir le sujet.
Nous sommes en 1935 et certains avaient déjà tout compris.
This is a provocative essay on the changing nature of art in western society. Benjamin points out that the changes in class structure from the 19th to 20th century gave birth to an art form for the masses, film (the spectator doesn't need to be literate or have access to paintings or sculptures). The essay left me wondering what Benjamin would think of our current age of digital social media and instant reproducible imagery where everyone is a filmmaker, photographer, writer, etc.As for the essay on Kafka, I was pretty lost, kind of like when I try to read Kafka.
An extremely prophetic essay by a great writer, tends to loose me when talking of an aestheticization of war like a Futurist, but again, sadly is prophetic about this too.
Interesting essays but they didn't manage to move me in any great way
So in other words, we can blame Trump on cinema.
obviously a gr8 thesis but o god this gets redundant and incomprehensible after a few pages thnk god its short
Me lo debía a mis 17 años, circundada por el sin fin de pasillos de la escuela publica, arrastrando tras de mi todo aquel material fragmentario, toda aquella idealidad por buscar lo irreproducible, por buscar cierta aura que escapase del aquí ahora, que condesase mas que el presente en su representación.
En la época de Benjamín, en este opusculo, esta característica transformaba a tal punto el arte que abría una posibilidad de la revolución (ver paginas46- 51, donde especifica la ruptura con los conceptos tradicionales del arte).
Sin embargo, hoy en día, nos damos cuenta que esta perspectiva ha sido totalmente cooptada por el sistema dominante, transformando todo lo reproducible en una mercancía hasta el punto del grotesco.
I have not read Proust's work, so the third essay felt a little like name-dropping, and I was the uneducated who had no idea who Benjamin was talking about.
That is not to say that I didn't learn anything, however, as Benjamin's ideas would easily be revived today as "The Work of Art in the Age of Digital Reproduction".
While I don't pretend to know anything much about Walter Benjamin's work just yet, I am already a fan.
But I do know I enjoy Walter Benjamin's work immensely.
Em primeiro lugar nas sociedades tradicionais em que a obra de arte era observada como um ritual e uma experiência religiosa: “o culto foi a expressão original da integração da obra de arte no seu contexto tradicional.
Com a Revolução Industrial e a possibilidade de reprodutibilidade da arte, esta perde a sua “aura” em que deixa de fazer sentido separar entre a obra de arte original e a sua cópia: “assim, a diferença entre autor e público está prestes a perder o carácter funcional, podendo variar de caso para caso.
This beautifully manufactured edition contains an essay examining the concept in the title, one on Kafka, and one on Proust.
Particularly in the first of these three pieces (the longest), Benjamin is verbose, unclear, self-contradictory, and without a central argument.
There are copious, expansive footnotes and silly, unnecessary references to Marxism.
Typically his quotations and references to other writers and speakers are the most lucid points in the text, although Huxley does make a very goofy appearance.
Despite all this, and particularly in the latter essays, some good ideas shine through, which set thoughts in motion even if they don't fully illuminate.
Resultatet av dette er at kunsten ikke lenger blir et objekt for leting etter subjektets indre forståelse av verden og seg selv, men heller blitt noe man holder seg ved siden det appellerer til egoet med uvitenhet.
Ofte har jeg lurt på grunnen til min forakt for det som griper massene, men nå er det jo forklart av min gode rollefigur - takk til gud for noe så skjønt og presist.
Jeg anbefaler boken til dem som ser viktigheten i forholdet mellom kunst og massene og hvordan økning av kunstens "relevans" ødelegger individets evne til å forstå seg gjennom kunsten.
Él ve el aura, la autenticidad y la singularidad de las obras de arte como fundamentalmente conectadas a su inserción en una tradición.El arte fue originalmente derivado del ritual, y dependía de él por su aura.
Las primeras obras de arte podrían haber sido artículos como tótems, pinturas rupestres y muñecas de fertilidad.
La autonomía del arte también se pierde.En el lado positivo, esta pérdida de tradición lleva la obra de arte a la distinta situación de vida del lector, el espectador o el oyente.
La obra de arte puede ser desconectada de sus usos pasados ​​y traída a nuevas combinaciones por el lector.
I bet Benjamin is now looking at us from a spaceship, smirking at our ignorance.
This essay strikes me with its' nearly clairvoyant properties each time I read it.
Benjamin wrote his insight into the loss of depth before digital technology, what renders the problem of meaning in postmodern society absurd and self-evident.
Off course, some of the Marxist viewpoints Benjamin presents are outdated, but it's a nice read nonetheless.
As McLuhan once said - all the wizardry of prophet lies in simply his ability to evaluate what is happening in his own time instead of looking back, and this essay is strong argument to that.
Se les llama vates a quienes tienen la claridad de espíritu suficiente para condensar, en un frame del pensamiento humano, un todo bajo el hilo que atraviesa al futuro y al pasado con el presente.
Benjamin disecciona las condiciones de las percepción en su época en comparación con el pasado y vaticina, con una lucidez tan extraordinaria que resulta escalofriante, las condiciones estéticas contemporáneas.
La idea central es que la separación de la función ritual del arte, por medio de la reproductibilidad mecánica, desemboca en una estetización de la vida cuando la alternativa a la injusticia social sería, más bien, la politización del arte.
Libro esencial para poder comprender cómo la técnica configura el arte y, en extensión, al propio ser humano. Benjamin distingue entre dos tipos de artes, uno presencial, experimental (donde la experiencia es inexcusable), y donde el término aura es esencial, y otro, moderno (años 20/30), democrático y con gran capacidad de difusión, pero que no tiene aura. Buah. Una pasada. Me flipó tanto este libro que intenté reescribirlo en la época de internet y terminé haciendo el TFG de periodismo sobre este tema, actualizado.
