https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23217.Size_14_Is_Not_Fat_Either
Another cute one! Intrigued by this Tad guy. Disappointed in Cooper.
Somewhere between book one ("Size 12 Is Not Fat") and book two "Size 14 Is Not Fat Either", I have completely fallen in love with the characters of the Heather Wells series by Meg Cabot.
Author Meg Cabot references many incidents from the first book and a lot of the characters carry over.
"Size 14 Is Not Fat Either" would lose some of the sparkle if you don't have all the background.Really looking forward to reading the third in the series, "Big Boned" (a.k.a.
"Size Isn't Everything").If you're looking for a funny, entertaining and easy-to-read light-thriller, then this is the book for you.
The chapter that Heather goes to a frat party and judges every girls body and they way they dressed was so disappointing and honestly painful to read.
She assigned each girl at the party by clothing size, ie "the 2's" etc and was extremely judgmental of any female character throughout the book who she deemed "skinny" or may have taken more time on their appearance than she did.
I fully understand that many, many women operate this way, but I was hoping for a confident character who wouldn't be controlled by societal beauty standards with a title like "size 14 isn't fat either." So really, with a title like that, why are there so many instances of Heather calling herself fat and deeming her body as undesirable throughout this whole book?
Another chick lit murder mystery, this is the sequel to Size 12 Is Not Fat and I'm not sure why I bought this one since I did not like the first one.
I keep reading Meg Cabot's books hoping I'll like them, but it is very clear that her true calling is writing for pre-teens (she's the author of the Princess Diaries series).
They always act and sound like 12-year-olds and yet the intelligent, accomplished, handsome men always end up falling for their charm in the end.
Cabot should stick to writing for tweens and I should remember not to buy her books in the future.
I read Size 12 and loved it, but about a third of the way into this book the main character, Heather, just really started getting on my nerves. I tried picturing her a million different ways and even tried to give her a different voice, but she was just obnoxious. She's the kind of girl I really don't like to even be around. I would describe her as silly or even ditzy. Not cute at all. By the end of the book, I was annoyed and just ready for the book to be over. I won't be finishing the series.
Not my favorite of the series so far, but towards the end it got SO MUCH BETTER. Can't wait to read the next installment and swoon.
I *love* Heather Wells.
And I think I love this book even more than the first one.
I didn't want to read another chick-lit novel that was focused on the heroine finding love and getting married.
And this is precisely why I ended up loving her writing and her characters.
Heather Wells is not a character that's all about finding love and getting married.
I love the humor in the novels and the way that the character development is very consistent and solid.
I love that this is basically just a fantastic realistic fiction series but with the mystery element, you want to read this even more.
As I said with the Mediator series, I'm not sure if I loved this because of nostalgia or if it's because it's actually good?
I think you'd enjoy it if you like chick lit.
The main character, Heather, is usually not the one making those comments, but I still thought I'd mention it in case it might bother anyone.
I do wish that Heather would love her body a little bit more.
I can understand being unhappy with the way you look, but she's very down on herself in the narrative.
It's clear that most of the people around her think she looks fine.
really cute "chick lit" book i rented from the library.
heather wells is a retired 29 year old rock star (and size 14) who now works as the manager of "new york college" dorm where students have been getting murdered left and right, earning it the nickname "death dorm." this is not the first in the series, but it was the only one i could get a hold of in the library.
i found this book at the top of the "best chick lit" list here on good reads.
i want to read more of this series.

While Cooper is not happy about that and repeatedly cautions her to stay out of the case, she finds she can't do that, and he ends up escorting her to a couple of those inquiries himself, especially to the (view spoiler)[fraternity that houses the dealer that the dead girl was involved with, who ended up being the one who strangled the girl, followed by his psychotic brother's cutting of her head to send a message to those who mess with the fraternity and their drug selling "enterprise" (hide spoiler)].Heather also has to deal with the reappearance of her father who was recently released from prison and would like to mend his relationship with her.
When I read the Heather wells series I feel like I relate too her.
Real rating: 2.5You know that a book is really bad when the only good part of it are the last 10 pages,and they are good mostly because of Reggie''the drug dealer''.The rest was pure hell.Heather freaking Wells,you are not 12 anymore,so will you stop acting like a child?Nope?Okay.The first part,Size 12 is Not Fat,was okay,but this one?Jesus Christ,reading this was a torture.I thought that Heather loves herself even though she's size 14 now,but nooooo.So much body hate...and the sad part is that this body hate mostly comes from Heather herself.Cooper is quite annoying to be honest.He's more of a father figure to Heather than her father is.Dude,she is obviously not in love with your brother so shut the hell up.I did like Tom and Reggie(❤),they are really cool.Everyone else?
Considering what they do to a girl.”
I thought this book was the usual feel-good-makes-you-laugh kind of book Meg Cabot is known for.
It continues Heather Wells, former teen-pop sensation, mission to move on with her life as a residence hall director for a New York college.
Once again a student has been murdered and Heather has to worm her way into solving the crime.
I think so far this has to be my favorite Meg Cabot series, next to her Princess series.
It was definitely a good book to read on a wet and rainy day.
The ending even made me want to hurry and order the sequel.
I love the mysteries in these books. They aren't necessarily original, but they are in the way they are solved. These books make me laugh while also spooking me here and there. They aren't really twisted with tons of plot twists, but they are a perfect mix of chick lit and mystery. They are light but they are also a tad scary at the same time.
Now I only just finished the second book but I haven't lost any interest in this series and I think that's pretty good.
(view spoiler)[Now Heather Wells is still the sassy older version of Nancy Drew.
Honestly, I sort of knew who one villain one but I never would've guess three.
Three villains for one murder seems a bit excessive and dramatic but Meg Cabot really ties it all together.
I honestly can't wait to dive into the next book!
(hide spoiler)]Is it bad that I really want to say: "Bring on the next murder" ..?
It's not any great literary work, but just fun, enjoyable entertainment.Heather Wells is a 29 yr old former teen pop star who is now working as an Asst Dorm (Residence Hall) Director so she can get free college tuition (for criminal justice), because she missed out when she was younger & her mother ran off to S.
At the dorm cafeteria, a popular cheerleader's head is discovered and everyone tells Heather to stay out of it because she almost got herself killed the last time she got involved (about 5 months ago -- the 1st book of the series), including Cooper Cartwright who is not only her ex-fiance's estranged brother but her landlord/p.t. boss (he's a PI & does his billing)/friend and crush.
Dan, kali ini dia juga lagi2 terlibat dalam kasus pembunuhan.Maunya Heather sih, dia udah ga mau ikut campur, tapi karena kepo is her middle name, maka Heather alih profesi.
Kalaupun ada yang anggap itu ga lucu, ya gapapa sih :)).Betenya, Heather ma Cooper lagi2 hubungannya muter2 ga jelas, mana Cooper beranggapan kalau Heather itu masih belum bisa move on.
Gara2 gap setahun dari baca buku pertama, jadi agak2 lupa sama teman - teman kerjanya Heather.Size 14 sih jelas recommended banget kalau kamu fansnya tante Meg. Ke"dodol"an Heather itu antara pengen ketawa bacanya sama pengen jitak :))
Heather Wells, the assistant director of Fisher Hall, cannot resist the urge to find out the answers to these questions herself instead of waiting for the police to do their job.I found this book to be a lot more plausible than the first book.
Heather is charming and funny and there is a lot less of the annoying dorm/residence hall thing than there was in the first book.I’ve listened to all three books in this series on audio and the first (Size 12 is Not Fat) and third are both narrated by Justine Eyre and this one was narrated by Kristin Karios.
Dalam series ini, Heather dihadapkan pada masalah pembunuhan lagi yang kini lebih sadis.
Tapi si Heather kayanya emang punya naluri kepo tingkat tinggi dan gak bisa cuma diem doang dengan kasus yang ada.
Tapi yang bikin senyam-senyum sendiri, meski geregetan dengan kekepoan Heather, Cooper tetep mau-mau aja nemenin nyelidikin...
(kepedulian Cooper memang tingkat tinggi...)Sementara itu Ayahnya Heather yang narapidana keluar dari penjara dan mencari tumpangan tinggal.
Suka setting pada musim dingin dalam cerita ini, dan masih suka dengan ke cool-an si Cooper.
I'd never read the first one and was not at all encouraged by the blurb; I typically hate chick-lit and detest romance becoming involved in a crime story.
I still didn't care who she would end up with, but I found her a likeable character and the basic storyline was quite good too.The writing style though, or lack of as the case may be, was abysmal.
Overall, the quality of the writing was poor but as a quick, easy read it was OK and the author did a fair job of making her characters likeable and had a good go at creating an interesting enough storyline.
Needed to balance out my more serious choices and thought this would be some enjoyable fluff based on the first book. Not worth the read at all. The main character was less enjoyable this time around (and she was pretty terrible the first time around the more I think about it) and the story just dragged on. I spent most of the time thinking was this necessary?
Only 2.5 stars. I didn't like this one quite as much as the first. The murder mystery is on the gruesome side and more obvious to figure out who did it. Also, all the talk about food and size comparisons is distracting and somewhat annoying the second time around.
Another fun Meg Cabot book. I love this one as it is a cozy mystery series and I love me some cozy mysteries.
While there were still a lot of things I found frustrating about her, I felt like the circumstances of the murder mystery in Size 14 really brought out the best of Heather Wells.I definitely enjoyed Size 14 Is Not Fat Either and found Heather and the book itself a fun, entertaining read--something you don’t have to think about too hard either.And I also confess, the murder mystery really DID manage to have me stumped.
My Thoughts:Much like the first book, this cozy mystery is actually not so much cozy mystery as it is chick lit about Heather Wells and how her life is going.
I really liked this instalment in the Heather Wells series.
It's a fun, easy read with a nice (easy) mystery.
It was really easy figuring out who the killer was but that didn't take away from the enjyoment of the book.
But the (view spoiler)[drug ring bust undercover Reggie is actually a fed named Brian totally got me out of nowhere!
(hide spoiler)] Didn't even remotely suspect that.
And Heather is such a fun character and just as lovable as she was in the first book.So overall, this was a very enjoyable experience and I'm looking forward to reading the third book in the series.
Good... Wish Heather would get a happy y life and be early understood by someone. A good mystery.
I only picked up this book because (a) I needed a minimum of $10 to use my credit card at the used bookstore (b) I'd had okay luck with Meg Cabot's books before and (c) I didn't have time to look for anything else because I didn't feel like putting any more money in the parking meter.I usually just rate books and move on and I was chugging along okay, until the ending/reveal which completely offended my sensibilities mainly because the main character Heather has NO common sense whatsoever.
I picked up this book because it's the only one the library had at the time (all others were checked out) by Meg Cabot.
=) I quite liked the other Meg Cabot book I read, so I thought this one looked promising.Unfortunately...
This book was so stupid, it felt like a major waste of time.
At first, the story definitely had a little charm.
I cannot do sloppy, not even in junkfood books.For example, Heather states that she has closed her eyes.
She says that he looks sad.
tell me, how is it that you can see that your friend looks sad?
pertama terlalu gory *yucks, boiled head on the pot*, kedua penjahatnya terlalu straight forward, gak ada kejutannya, red herring-nya masak cuman pake nama yang sama aja, dan yang terakhir, uhhm ya...
memang sih, ada juga tegangnya di bagian akhir plus kejutannya(baik)nya, tapi jadi agak melempem gara-gara Heather yang kena roofie.
juga banyak karakter-karakter menarik yang bermunculan, yang bikin novel ini sulit dilepaskan.
Ada pula Reggie, si pengedar narkoba yang ternyata adalah *ttiiiit* #ilang sinyal.Magda, Pete, Julio dan Detektif Canavan juga muncul lagi, sama seperti Patty dan Frank, pasangan yg jd teman Heather.
Tapi keputusan Coop, dan Heather, di akhir kisah kok bikin aku sedih yaaaa.....
