https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80276.The_Human_Voice
Francis Poulenc, who knew Cocteau for most of his adult life, wrote an opera for soprano and orchestra in 1958 based on Cocteau's play.
Gian Carlo Menotti also wrote an opera based on La voix humaine, and Roberto Rosselini, among others, made film versions of the play.
Cocteau has the actress play the full register of emotions, and, of course, as a consummate artist, he starts softly, tenderly and through a series of increasing intermediate climaxes and revelations leads the audience to a moving conclusion which I won't spoil.You can listen to the entire play on YouTube as realized in 1957 by Berthe Bovy, who created the role in 1930:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MNI4-S...And you can also listen to the wonderful Ingrid Bergman's performance of an English translation:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=06pO54...(*) I wonder how many people even know what a "party line" was...
Hace como diez años vi esta obra de teatro, dirigida e interpretada por Humberto Tortonese, y me pareció excelente.La voz humana es un monólogo de una mujer desesperada.
En realidad, un diálogo telefónico, pero nunca escuchamos la voz de su amante al otro lado del tubo.Es la última conversación que tendrán: él la dejó, y ella está al borde del suicidio.
Por momentos su desesperación causa gracia; por otros, pena y rechazo.Que me perdone Cocteau, pero la versión de Tortonese me gustó mucho más.
Y el giro de que el amante deje a la mujer por otro hombre, simplemente me encantó.Si les gusta leer teatro, les recomiendo esta obra.
La terrible idea de la soledad, de la separación y del abandono expuesta en un discurso parlante emotivo donde con claridad se deja sentir el lado amargo de la ansiedad.
Tuve la ligera impresión de que en cualquier momento iba a llorar, no porque el texto este tan profundo como los resto del Titanic, sino que el momento se brindó para tal cuestión.
Vi reflejada mucha misericordia en la voz de la chica, un intento por salvar algo que hace años está hecho cenizas, destrozada.
Así está la voz humana cuando pierde algo de valor en su vida, simplemente destrozada.
She only did one production of it and it was produced by the man she'd been having an affair with (Bertold Viertel).The play is definitely one that would rely on the voice of the actress and as such I think Beatrix would have been perfect for it.
In the introduction the author says that the woman isn't particularly spectacular in any way, just ordinary and in love.
One of the things that strikes me the most about the play is how different the medium of telephone conversations is.
I know that this translation isn't considered as good as the later one, but as this is the one Beatrix performed it was this version I wanted to read.
ljudski glas - jednochinka.prepisujem iz predgovora: 'autor voli iskustvo.kako je stekao naviku da s
Brevissimo atto unico del 1930 che prevede in scena solo una donna al telefono.
Dalle sue parole rivolte all'ex apprendiamo della storia d'amore finita e delle bugie che si racconta per tirare avanti.Nonostante suoni datato nelle espressioni amorose formali e un po' maschiliste, all'epoca fu innovativo per l'azione centrata sul telefono, che appariva moderno e "freddo": immagino si possa paragonare a certi film di oggi tutti girati sullo schermo di un pc portatile attraverso le chat e i social.
Usa bene il mezzo con le pause nella conversazione e i problemi tecnici (centralini, interferenze).
Ha un suo fascino, e si capisce perché sia stato molto citato.
Livre audio de cette pièce 'à une voix, un acte' de Jean Cocteau, créée en 1930 à la Comédie française
Obsessed and severely depressed. Looking toward death.
A fascinating play about the power of machines and everyday objects.
