https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/635635.Women_Race_and_Class
LJ user gingersomething:I really think this should be required reading for middle class white feminists struggling to comprehend intersectionality. Although, judging from that first goodreads review, maybe some are just beyond reach.
Angela Davis honors this original conception of intersectionality by examining how the feminist movement has largely failed black women, lower class women, lower class black women, and women in general who fall outside of the upper to middle class white women bubble.
Though first published in 1983, this book’s themes unfortunately still apply to today, where the feminist movement still often devalues those who are not white, cisgender, upper to middle class, educated, straight, able-bodied, and more.
This classic book will continue to make me work harder to ensure my feminist actions address intersectionality and that I hold myself accountable for my errors.
if you're ready to graduate from just holding intersectional complexity to doing justice along every axes of that intersection in due measure, then you should read these essays; that is, if you haven't already.
what's shameful is that if we're going under the assumption that this text is so widely read and familiar on such a scale then why are all our political spaces so totally bereft of its insights?
people may grasp intersection, but there is a lack of the rigor to do the labor to strengthen the joists so that a liability is rendered into a gift.
this is angela davis' gift.
An important work marking the intersections of class, race and gender...and all the history behind people you've vaguely looked up to because no one ever talks about the way they really felt about Black people.
And yet, as evidence of the absolute impunity with which the white man dares to kill a Negro, the same record shows that during all these years, and for all these murders, only three white men have been tried, convicted and executed.
As no white man has been lynched for the murder of coloured people, these three executions are the only instances of the death penalty being visited upon white men for murdering Negroes.
I may at some point take the time to write something better than this, but I also might not.
If I do, it will do more justice to this book than what I am currently offering.
If I do not, then this short little paragraph will have to do.Women, Race, and Class is a classic work.
It is old, but it is not dated.
It is essential reading in a way that the works of Ta-Nehisi Coates' are not (though that is not to detract from how essential his works are as well).
I look forward to reading more by her.Essential.
Read this book.
I give this book 4.5 stars which rounds up to 5. I read this book for my Women in Politics class. This book's central focus is intersectional feminism. It highlights how gender, race, and class factor into inequality. This book started off incredibly strong, but lost its way a bit in the later chapters. However, still a fantastic and insightful book.
Now unto reviewing the book which I found very insightful and educational."Have not "black male citizens." been heard to say they doubted the wisdom of extending the right of the suffrage to women?
In fact, it is better to be the slave of an educated white man, than of a degraded ignorant black one."I had to read this quote twice, it is so poignant and sad when you think about how slavery this effects us today.
I liked how this book talked about modern day slavery and the struggles that Black women are facing today.I will consider myself a Feminist, I believe that woman should have the same rights as men.
I adore this book. It is one of those books that blew apart the white middle class way I was raised, and it made me a smarter and better person. Her ideas are so powerful that they deserve to be read and reread.
Quando a Boitempo publicou a primeira tradução brasileira de Mulheres, raça e classe, no fim do ano passado, comprei de pronto o ebook, mas senti que precisava de tempo para me dedicar a ele; adiei a leitura para as férias.Tendo concluído agora o último ensaio do livro, só consigo pensar em como Mulheres, raça e classe é uma obra fundamental para todo mundo, e deveria ser leitura obrigatória nas escolas - mesmo que Angela Davis esteja se debruçando sobre o caso dos EUA, com todo o aparato histórico possível.
As opressões vividas por negros (e, sobretudo, por mulheres negras) desde a escravidão encontram ecos em nossa própria sociedade, sobretudo nos efeitos mais perniciosos que persistem nos dias atuais, nas esferas cultural, educacional e econômica.Para além disso, qualquer feminista que tenha problemas em entender a importância da interseccionalidade deveria ler Mulheres, raça e classe.
A book like absolutely no other, Absolutely no other. Never there was and never there will ever be anyone like Angela Y. Davis. My personal hero, and everything I ever want to be.
Un feminismo que intenta hacer cosas, pero que conoce poco de teoría, que necesita sumergirse un poco más en su propia historia para entender de donde viene, en vez de, precisamente, casarse con el capitalismo (como lo hace la mayoría de las veces) y defender como empoderantes prácticas que tienen una raíz patriarcar sin analizar ni madres de nada.
Remarca, precisamente, que en condiciones de trabajo las mujeres negras eran tan explotadas como los hombres, por lo tanto, no existía una supremacía masculina del hombre negro.

The role of black women as equals to their men in regards to work during the time of slavery which is contrasted with the role of free white women in society at the time.
The effects of emancipation on how their roles changed & what the Women's Suffrage & Feminist Movements meant for black people in general & black women specifically are demonstrated as well.
She also gets into the consequences of those movements changing attitudes towards black people &, again, black women specifically affected how they were treated throughout society.
I remember borrowing this book from the public library on Fordham Road when I was 15....it was the first book I ever took out and I never returned it. I poured over its pages. This turned me on to feminist research and critical theory in a way I can't full express. At 15 I knew the life of the mind was for me....which is crazy...I've since donated a new copy....but I didn't explain to the librarians the circumstances of my donation.
https://www.instagram.com/p/Bd1W5tGFF...
[Insert fascination with Angela Davis' books.:] Need I say more about why I chose to start with this particular one?
In this collection of writings, Angela Davis touches on a range of topics that point to the struggles of the Black woman fighting to fight for equality in a movement that fails to include her.
As the book progresses Davis articulates the various issues that were used to ostracize black women from the overall women’s rights movement since the late nineteenth century.
With Women, Race & Class, Davis brings these issues – and more – to light with the message of unity for the benefit of everyone in the fight for equality.
As timeless today as it was in 1983, Women, Race, and Class by Angela Davis is a necessary read for any person interested in social and racial justice. If you haven't read this book yet.....do it now. It will challenge you, it will infuriate you, and it will make you a better intersectional feminist.
A must read, especially for white feminists. It's incredibly comprehensive and her writing is engaging and accessible. It's also frustratingly timely, as so many of the issues brought up within the book are still issues our social justice movements face today.
Uma leitura essencial para esses tempos.
I didn’t really know what to expect going into it, and it’s basically a historical examination of the intersection of struggles against sexism, racism, and classism.
Or, more accurately, against slavery and lynching, against capitalism, and for woman suffrage and reproductive freedom.
I think it’s interesting how Davis, at this point in time at least, certainly saw socialism (rooted in anti-racism and anti-sexism) as the answer to capitalist oppression.
I can't believe how readable this book is, considering how dense it also is in historical detail. The research that went into it must be astounding, but it flows in most places like a conversation with a (really well-informed) friend. Along with many subjects I am familiar with, I was absolutely fascinated by all the socialist ideas I've never heard before. I have paaaaaages of notes that I'll have to add later.
Why I read this book:Angela Davis is a pioneer in terms of black liberation and gender equality.
Content: 1/1It’s important for readers to understand that this is not just a book about women, race and class.
It is actually a study (and the contents reflect this) that digs into the racism that continues to take place in movements associated with women, race and class.
The details of this book were profound, revealing and relevant.Impact: 1/1 I learned a lot in such a short read and I appreciated the opportunity to do so.
Troublant de lire aujourd'hui ce que Davis a écrit en 1983:Some of the most flagrant symptoms of social deterioration are acknowledged as serious problems only when they have assumed such epidemic proportions that they appear to defy solution.
The rising public concern about rape in the United States has inspired countless numbers of women to divulge their past encounters with actual or would-be assailants.
As a result, an awesome fact has come to light: appallingly few women can claim that they have not been victims, at one time in their lives, of either attempted or accomplished sexual attacks.
She shows that although at the very beginning the abolitionist movement and the women's rights movement had strong ties and relations, they rather quickly fell apart, and that many white women speaking for women's rights, would speak against the rights of African Americans, including the women.The feminist movement has had a tendency to ignore the important of class and race, but these are real and important issues and they need to be addressed.
We cannot close our eyes and believe that the same issues and situations face all women equally, and Women, Race & Class is incredibly eye-opening and thought-provoking, I greatly recommend it.
Masterful overview of America's women's movement from pre-Civil War to the end of the 1970's, especially concerning the experiences and oppressions of Black women and girls. You likely didn't learn this stuff in school. My only gripe is that Davis assumes we understand her vision of socialism and references her view without much explication. Perhaps this was easier for her contemporary readers, but readers in 2016 could benefit from some additional context. Angela Davis will be speaking on the University of Iowa campus on March 8, 2016.
Livro absolutamente necessário para entender a importância da interseccionalidade para a discussão de problemas e políticas públicas. O texto de Davis é interseccional em sua escrita, o que facilita muito a leitura. Os temas trabalhados são profundos e muito relevantes. Recomendo a leitura a todas as pessoas!
Oxalá se lera nos institutos.
Anyone interested in the history of the women's movement in the US, or black history, should definitely read this book.Davis focuses on the ways marginalized groups have been played against one another.
In order to appeal to racist voters and power brokers during Reconstruction, white suffragettes even argued that giving women the right to vote would increase the proportion of whites voting and limit the political power of blacks.
The industrialization of domestic labor in the form of professionally performed housework, which she also recommends, is likewise consistent with capitalism.Because of its sophistication, brevity, and readability, this will likely become one of my top recommendations for feminist readings.
a practical and impressive history of the workings of race class and gender from 19th-century us history to the current moment.
an astounding archive and intervention into even activist dialogues of current US history.
chapters on domestic labor and the chapter on reproductive oppressions for women of color/the failures of the mainstream white liberal birth control/abortion movements are standouts to me.
as a white woman reading this, the few examples davis provides of white women actively working to dismantle and wield their own privilege to be co-conspirators for racial justice were really helpful examples/inspirations (few because historically....
that has not been the case for white women activists).
Women, Race & Class is a phenomenal book and great introduction to the issues of racism and classism in the feminist movement.I'd recommend this book to anyone interested in race or gender issues, but who doesn't know where to begin.Davis' book is a great starter for anyone interested in the history of the women's movement.
Davis exposes the racism and classism of popular feminist icons and the women's movement at large.
She also details activists who worked to break down not only sexism for white, middle-class women, but racism and classism like Ida B.
