https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311150.Arabella
Arabella overhears the rather arrogant Beaumaris tell his friend that he's certain Arabella has pursued him from London and has made up the carriage accident as an excuse, and she is so incensed by this accusation that she immediately launches into a series of reckless lies, telling Beaumaris and his friend that she's a wealthy heiress who is unutterably weary of all the fuss people make over her.
A few days later Arabella is horrified, as she begins to go about in society, to find that word has spread and everyone in London society now believes she's an heiress.
WOW, what an absolutely fantastic read Arabella was.This Heyer combines all that's best about regency romances, starting with a well crafted hero.
However, one of the best moments in both these books comes when the jaded hero steps up and takes on a problem because he knows it will help the heroine yet cause countless difficulties for himself.
I.MELT.EVERY.TIME.The heroine Arabella is also a good character.
In a word, they are believable.It goes without saying that this is a clean read, but it's not an easy one with all the cant-speak and idioms Heyer uses.
This isn't the book cover I have (the copy I read was by Mandarin Publishing in the 1990s & Arabella looks nothing like I envisage her) but this is my favourite Heyer cover ever.
& the book does contain many insights into what life was like for the less fortunate in Regency times.Edit; 2/7/18.
I still love this cover, even though Arabella is a brunette.This is still a 5★ read for me, but it is no longer my favourite Heyer Regency.
but Bertram pushes Arabella & Robert's romance off centre stage.As above, I still love Robert & Ulysses.
Enjoyed this book so much I read it again. It think I enjoyed it more the second time around. Great ending! Seriously swoon worthy. And read it a 3rd time.Content: CleanSource: AudibleOriginally read in October 2015 - Reread in March 2016 & again in June 2016
Until the ending sequence, the book was 4 stars for me.
So many bits and pieces of the book reminded me of Pride and Prejudice in a good way.
Arabella, though inexperienced and quite innocent, had a sharp mind and acute self-awareness.
She guarded her heart well (for good reasons) against the hero's advances.
He and Arabella made a good match in the game of courtship.
Arabella, collected and sensible throughout the whole book, suddenly became silly beyond measure.
I can't help but feeling disappointed since there are Georgette Heyer books with much better crafted ending, like The Grand Sophy, Venetia, and Frederica.
Meanwhile, enjoying a respite from the humdrum of the metropolis and the conniving schemes of unscrupulous females too numerous to number, Mr. Robert Beaumaris was intending to spend a very relaxing evening in his Leicestershire hunting-box with his dear friend Lord Fleetwood (who was definitely hoping for more than good food and wine as his only distractions of the evening).
Brough enters: Excuse me sir, a couple of women have had a carriage accident right outside your door and are asking if they can wait here until it the damage is fixed?Beaumaris: Meh. Bring them to the salon.
They actually spend enough time together, getting to know each other better, with a lot of surprises along the way.I was afraid her brother will hijack the story at one point, but although he did get more than enough pages of his own, in the end it all flawlessly connected with the main story and made sense.There are so many things I loved in this book.Arabella is even comforted by an urchin.
Up until that moment Robert Beaumaris was amusing himself and falling in love without noticing, but this gave him the perfect opportunity to really see how extraordinarily unbent Arabella is when it comes to justice.
Of course, it has a lot of the ingredients found in Georgette Heyer's (brain candy) regencies, such as a debutante seeking an advantageous marriage, a swoon-worthy hero, trials and tribulations, and a misguided sibling.
Arabella, also referred to as the "little Tallant", draws our swoon-worthy hero into the rescue of more than one unfortunate creature and this is exactly what makes her so engaging.
It will be difficult to find a hero I can like better than Robert Beaumaris in Georgette Heyer's novels but I will keep reading them to find out.
There was a big joke played on me by the powers above, I think, because I picked up this novel without having the slightest of clues that this was Heyer's homage to "Pride and Prejudice." And it wasn't until I was about 70% into the story that I stopped giggling at Beaumaris' amusing conversations with the mongrel Ulysses long enough for the déjà vu to sink in.
And I'm starting to suspect that such immature lassies appear with frequency in Heyer's novels, particularly because she seems to repeat the formula of sensible and hot older male + silly chit = Regency romance plot a time too many.
I haven't read this in years and I absolutely loved it!
The Tallant family are a delight.
It was chapter three before Arabella left for London and I must confess I would have liked it to be a couple of more.
I loved the family dynamic here and would have liked to have spent more time with them.
It is definitely one of her more witty books.
We have some wonderful fops and dandies in this book.
Even, in the beginning, Beaumaris is unbearable but the love of a good woman conquers all.A wonderful read that I'd highly recommend.
I'll confess I wasn't too impressed by the start, and there was a whiff of Pride and Prejudice-ness about it that put me off a bit, but both protagonists grew on me.I had major embarrassment squick at first, with the silly trick Arabella pulls, but as the novel developed and her kindly nature became clearer, I was ready to forgive her -- and her silly mistake was, of course, pretty justified.
Some of the best giggly bits were Robert's 'conversations' with Ulysses.In the end, having fallen for both protagonists, I was more than satisfied by the end.
Arabella is the daughter of a country vicar and brought up to be more interested in erudition and kindness than in gossip or fashion.
En route, she is forced to take refuge at a house when her carriage breaks down, and she meets two men, one of them Mr. Beaumaris, who was convinced that Arabella is pursuing him for his wealth.
This quickly spreads all over London, and our heroine has to face the repercussions while falling in love with Beaumaris for real.
Beaumaris is not the 'bored of life' man that is such a cliché in these novels.
Arabella overhears this and lets him know, that she, too, hopes to have a Season in London free of the slavering money-grubbers after her wealth.
As her father would remind her, pride goeth before the fall.Beaumaris is amused, not taken in by her airs (because she is utterly naive in other ways) and he convinces his friend she is what she says, a great heiress from the North.
Arabella is a great gal, full of spunk and honorable instincts, aghast at what a moment of impetuous pride has done.
A wonderful, lovely, heartfelt and funny read.
This is why I love goodreads: I never heard of Georgette Heyer until I joined (I know, shame on me!!) but it's so great that I have read so many authors that I never heard of otherwise.
This book has been on my TBR list for awhile now (so many books, so little time) but I finally read it.
I liked Arabella & Mr. Beaumaris the most; some parts reminded me a little of Pride & Prejudice.
I liked the antics, the misunderstandings, and, of course, Ulysses:) I will definitely check out more of Georgette Heyer's books.
Her little, innocent lie allows her to live the most beautiful of all the adventures: love.Arabella knows nothing about men, London society and all the rules that seem to be essential for the respectable people she meets.
She is beautiful, charming and makes everybody fall in love with her (even if all her suitors want to marry her because of her supposed fortune).
This will be the most important thing that will bring the richer and most suitable man of the city to flirt with her and to fall head over heels for her.I loved Arabella.
4.5 stars. Read it several times over several decades. Really enjoyed it. Light and heartwarming, with somewhat serious reflections on vanity, injustice, and London society, mainly. Loved getting the hero's perspective via fireside chats with his scruffy mutt. Among Heyer's memorable characters are Leaky Peg, Old Grimsby, Jemmy, and others.Recently I listened to the audiobook, narrated by Phyllida Nash. She is the wrong reader for this book. Her voice is too elderly. Not light and young. I recommend reading it instead.
You know it's really not fair to my husband for me to keep reading these books w fabulous heroes like Mr. Beaumaris.
So yes, our hero was mega swoon-worthy.
The book was a lot of fun, and I really enjoyed it.
But I did read that by the time Heyer wrote this book, she had many copy-cats and plagiarizers.
Then she could catch them in the act when they used the same words in their books.
The gave a couple examples of words in Arabella but I've already forgotten what they were.
Arabella is one of my favourite Heyer Regencies, so I was delighted when I learned that Naxos was bringing out a new audio version with Phyllida Nash narrating.
When her Godmother offers to bring her out and give her a London season, Arabella’s mother is delighted, and hopeful that Arabella’s beauty will attract a wealthy suitor.
The young lady in question is naturally excited at the prospect, and determined to fulfil her mother’s wishes by finding a husband of means who will be able to offer financial assistance to her family.You can read the rest of this review at AudioGals.
This was wonderful!
Surprise surprise, haha.
ethereal way that instantly makes me feel like a hippopotamus, I really liked her, for the same reason the hero falls in love with her: she actually cares about other people and animals, and doesn't stop to think about the consequences when she sees injustice, just rushes in and saves the day (with Beaumaris' obliging help afterwards, of course).
I get so tired of the well, helping ONE person isn't going to change the situation so why bother!
This book and Fires of Pompeii came at just the right time for me, I think.
I'm re-reading all of Georgette Heyer's Regency romances and loving them as much as I did in my early teens. It's amazing how much these books still hold their charm for me after nearly fifty years.Arabella isn't one of my favourites, but only because Robert Beaumaris didn't tug at my heart-strings as some others have. Still a great read and the conversations Beaumaris had with Ulysses were priceless!
The only parts I really liked were where the hero has very involved talks with his ugly dog.
Man, Georgette Heyer writes some of the best -- unintentional or otherwise -- schemers in historical romance! I can see why Arabella is considered a favorite of her works. And I definitely get the appeal of Mr. Beaumaris. Just the way he attacks the whole situation...and how he treats Ulysses! Be still, my heart! Did I also mention she writes some of the best love interests? ;)
Things don't go quite as planned....suddenly almost all of fashionable London believes her to be a fabulously wealthy young woman, with fops and rakes, and fortune hunters alike begging for her hand, Bella starts to wonder if she has lost her only chance of happiness in one impetuous moment....My thoughts went something like that.....
The plot was forseeable and was so much like Pride and Prejudice, I kept thinking of my brother's comment after watching the P and P movie:"Clearly, she didn't have much interation with guys." In Heyer's defense, though, the characters were the best part of the book.
While I could believe that Mr. Beaumaris fell in love with her for her character, she is repeatedly struck my how handsome he is....and little else.
***Spoilers Ahead!***Arabella is in the ranks of my second-favorite Georgette Heyer novels—lacking the sustained hilarity or gripping scenes of faves like The Unknown Ajax or Frederica, but delightful nonetheless.
The hero is more mature but like the heroine, torn between his love of amusement and his conscience.
Events are not wished on the protagonists, they bring them upon themselves.Any fan of Georgette Heyer knows that the greatest pleasure in reading her work often comes from the secondary characters.
Arabella gives fairly short shrift to many of the secondary characters, but one of them, Ulysses, is the cause of most of the best scenes in the book.
4.5WHAT A GOOD ONE. Loved how utterly well matched the hero and heroine are.I didn't even mind the brother's troubles that much. He came off as young, rather than stupid.
When her sensible and loving Mama decides it is time to appeal to her wealthy godmother for a Season in London, Arabella is soon on her way.
She is so outraged when she hears him telling his friend about the plot he imagines she is trying to put in motion, that she lets him think she is a much sought-after heiress herself, seeking the anonymity of a Season in town to escape the constant barrage of fortune-hunting potential grooms.
Beaumaris decides for his own cynical amusement to let the word be spread she is an heiress, and sits back to watch her become the Toast of the Town under false pretenses.
I had kept postponing the reading of this book for a leisurely period of time for me to enjoy it, and very honestly the postponement paid off and I did enjoy myself a lot!The story is about Arabella, who is a Country Parson's daughter, and whose only hope for a respectable and comfortable life, for herself and her siblings, is by forming an eligible attachment through marriage.
How they eventually fall in love and lead the other to understand the ways and thinking's of their parts of the world forms the story of the book.Beginning with the protagonist, Arabella Tallant.
Georgette Heyer books are my new comfort reading. So much happy!
And unforunately, I can't look or really read another regency romance (yet) without thinking of Heyer only and being absolutely unfair to all those other authors!
In many ways, I think I loved Arabella alot (and still love it), primarily because it read like Jane Austen, only more modern.
Not to mention, this is a pure romance, not unsightly mature scenes (for those who don't love those kinds of scenes), always ends in a proposal and a kiss.
She loves her lively family though sometimes her siblings argue and Papa's moralizing is a bit too strong.
She feels pressured to choose someone to help her family, but whom can she choose who will please her and is not a fortune hunter?This is Georgette Heyer's Pride and Prejudice.
I love Arabella's compassion for others and only Heyer can make a tragic situation into a comic scene.
It wasn't very amusing for Arabella.The characters are first rate.
Arabella is young and a bit impetuous, but not silly like most of Heyer's other young heroines.
