https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53727.The_Green_Brain
I am glad to discover that this obscure 60s SF novel is not entirely forgotten.
Merely ok.Written in the mid-sixties, it's full of the sort of casual sexism that give me hives. But the idea was interesting enough and the writing kept me engaged, even if the character were flat and the editing a bit slap-dash.
I should probably start of by saying this is the first book by Frank Herbert I have read (but definitely not the last).
In this book the human race is busy exterminating all insects.
One of the main characters is Chen-Lhu, a Chinese scientist who was involved in the extermination of the insects in his country.
All insects have now disappeared in China and Brazil is taking their example.
And like Herbert tells in this book, the loss of insects will be detrimental to the whole ecosystem.
This book may not be Herbert’s best work and definitely had some faults, it also had some excellent points.
Like most people, I read Dune first, fell in love, then sought out his earlier books. And, like most people, was disappointed that they all weren't Dunes. What I came to realize was that most of Herbert's earliest works were stories appearing in science fiction magazines like Amazing Stories & Astounding Science Fiction, and the books were just fleshed-out versions of these short stories.Reccuring themes throughout Herbert's writing: ecology, religion, power, the relationship between an environment and its inhabitants, and the consequences (especially in the long term) of attempts at controlling either..
China has totally eradicated all insects except mutated bees designed to perform necessary functions such as pollination; the Americas are close behind, though apparently the US is resisting.
There are many fascinating touches here, such as the insects' ability to cluster together to create simulacra of humans or of giant bugs (interestingly, Herbert has characters repeatedly note that how such things could support their own weight is a mystery, without ever providing an answer to said mystery), or Herbert's attempt to depict how an insect intelligence might think--I didn't find this attempt entirely successful, but then, it's a tall order, and Herbert gets points for making a good effort.
It almost felt as though this were a sequel and I hadn't read the first book.
This was the first novel I have ever read from Herbert, and his descriptions of surroundings and depth of emotion amazed me.
Another thing I loved about this book was the awesome chemistry between the main characters.
The connection he created between these characters felt so genuine, and their emotional depth was surprising.
Whether you are familiar with Frank Herbert or not, if you can get past a sluggish start, this book is truly an enjoyable read...
I bought this original (yellowed) 1966 version for a dollar because why not.
Seriously, fuck bugs.
Herbert tiene una suerte de don para las intrigas políticas en la ciencia ficción (Dune es el perfecto ejemplo), y en esta historia supo urdir todo el fondo que desencadena los eventos actuales.
Pero el desarrollo de esa política, el mismo desarrollo de los personajes (excepto el Cerebro), las descripciones de cada escena, me parecieron sosas y muy apresuradas.
Es decir, creo que Herbert quiso pintarnos a esos personajes así de "simples" y "límbicos" para justificar las incoherencias del ser humano y lo compleja que puede ser la especie a los ojos de otra.
Highly Relevant Video!!
3.5/5 an interesting concept.
I have had this book staring at me from my shelf for a couple years.
I picked it up because I enjoyed Herbert's Dune, but the premise was just not overly inviting.
I finally decided to read it this week and found the novel has a lot of promise, but not enough development.
The characters are too stereotypical--the readheaded Irish beauty, the suave Latin lover, and the inhuman, atheistic Chinese.
The plot was interesting and it would make a great thriller movie, but characters were too undeveloped and the political ideology was too central.
In sum, Dune was better.
This book stirs up some excellent concepts and ideas yet it sadly fails to live up in the execution. I feel that for the scope that the author was trying to bring he needed a longer novel and a more dynamic plot. Half of the novel ends up being about three people in a boat which sadly becomes tedious and boring. The more interesting parts of the novel were ,ironically, with the non-human characters. Its a pulpy scifi novel that could have been a real scifi classic. Great ideas but poor execution. A rewrite would benefit the novel greatly.
The Green Brain is by far the least philosophical of Herbert's novels, which I think is a flaw.
Herbert is at his best when examining the undercurrents of human nature and culture, which he does well in the Dune novels and others like The Dosadi Experiment.
The Green Brain is clearly an early novel and though it works well as an adventure story, even a bit of an action suspense story, it lacks the depth that Herbert could have put into it.
Again, worth reading for die hard Herbert fans who want to see his development, but standing alone it is only average.
This book, originally published in 1966, portrays a chilling world in which man's destruction of the environment has pushed nature to the point that it decides to strike back. A great read for the current generation of eco-sustainable folks looking for an "I told you so!" story. With the advantage of current CGI technology, this book would now make a really cool movie. Hope someone finds it and gives it a go!
Nowhere near as good as the Dune novels, but still an OK SiFi story. Recommended
I'm not regretting it, but I'm not so happy with the time read either.The story is an interesting idea - humanity is "cleaning" the world of unhelpful insects in what amounts to an all out war, but it seems that the insects are fighting back with new and strange mutations...
sometimes we have character A talking, character B's thoughts, then back to A for their thoughts - all in the same paragraph...I wouldn't recommend going back to read this - stick to Herbert's later (and much much better) work.Really not to my tastes.
A fascinating idea, which has seemingly influenced a lot of sci-fi since e.g. Michael Crichton's "Prey", Octavia Butler's "Xenogenesis", Robert Rodriguez's movie "The Faculty".
It is very much of its time though, in terms of contemporary ecological theory (It was published four years after Rachel Carson's seminal environmental science book "Silent Spring", which documented the negative effects of pesticide overuse) and in terms of societal attitudes to gender politics, marriage and religion, among others.
A lot of the dialogue, as well as the rapid POV switching feels quite dated.
In one way, the very last line reminded me of Kim Stanley Robinson's "Forty Signs of Rain", in its crescendo to a message contained in a single summing-up sentence of dialogue.
What a strange little book.
Which is dumb and frustrating, but not enough to like TOTALLY ruin the book or anything.It didn't feel very Dune-y until the last third or so, when they all were attempting to play psychological games on each other.
And then they'd be like oh my god that so comment is so insightful, how did they know that????
and I'm like, "really?
Okay, if you say so" so basically exactly like all of Dune.Anyway, bugs, we need 'em, the end.

I am a huge Dune fan, but that love was a hindrance going in to reading The Green Brain. While this story has some interesting ideas (insect life evolving into a new, intelligent and organized force in reaction to pesticides), the compliments stop there. The plot never gets resolved, the characters don't develop, and the main characters are solely based on offensive stereotypes (the Latin lover, the Asian manipulator, the oversexed seductress). Overall, The Green Brain feels like a rush job. One that can be avoided.
I liked it. Like Most Science Fiction it's not well Written but Herbert was Creative. An Eco Story about humanity controlling insects taking place in Brazil. Characters are typical but believable because I've come across these types before. I hate insects and I was going for the Humans. If you Like Frank Herbert you won't be disappointed. He appears less tired then he was writing the last Dune Books.
What began as a reasonably strong environmentalist sci-fi quickly dissolves into a pointless slog through the jungle with some stereotypes thrown in. The ending, in particular, is a huge anti-climactic letdown that should have happened halfway through the book and lead to actually engaging plot developments. Even if this wasn't written by the author of the acclaimed Dune, I'd have expected far more.
Some interesting concepts and creatures, but there wasn't quite enough of that. Too much time spent on the (spoiler sort-of) three individuals escaping in a pod down the river. A quick read, a lot of head-hopping, and I skimmed some of the last twenty pages, but there's something about it that got me interested right away, and this underlying tension that kept me going, even though I was losing interest in the plot.
Great story that dragged a bit in the middle but was otherwise a very fun read. Mr. Herbert is one of my favorite authors so I might be a bit biased. There is some typical sexist stereotypes from writers of the 60-70s but it wasn't bad enough to take me out of the story. I expected as much going in to it.
If you're expecting a book of the Dune series' quality you will be disappointed but if you dramatically lower your expectations then it is a nice and somewhat thought-provoking read. What I found most interesting about the book is the integration of philosophy and ecology, which is a Frank Herbert trademark that would be easily recognizable by those who read Dune.
Este é um livro ecológico que mostra a preocupação ambiental que o Frank Herbert demonstra ao longo dos seus livros. Num mundo cruel e com excesso de população o homem limpa todos os locais exceto Mato Grosso onde os insetos são controlados por um cérebro ambiental que os controla e tenta garantir um último reduto ambiental do planeta.Uma abordagem curiosa de 3 personagens que tentam resistir aos insetos até a um final interessante e revelador
Fun and quick. The ending could have been a bit more satisfying.
I'm not really sure why to make of this book, but I really liked the ending a lot. That's all I can say...such an odd book.
One of Herbert’s so-so novels: he went with entomology & big bugs but the plot never really took off. This was like a weekly episode of “The X Files”.
