https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31138556-homo-deus
He makes clear that his hypotheses are only potential ways the future might unfold, but the text comes across as a warning as much as anything else.For me, the most interesting and thought-provoking was his argument for the better treatment of animals.
Not only that, modern technology has increasingly allowed us to understand the emotional and intellectual complexity of animals in a way that should make it difficult to treat them as lesser beings.
It seems like every week now we are getting news reports of another animal ripped from its habitat for a selfie and dying as a result.
This book reads like the author read a number of popular science articles, watched some sci-fi movies, attended a transhumanist meetup, got just a bit high on weed and then started writing.
Both Sapiens and Homo Deus are compulsory reading in my book, even though the macro-history presented is plenty vulnerable to all sorts of attacks.
Just like Sapiens is not a History, Home Deus is not a prophesy, both are explorations.
Well yes, but even more God-like attributes are coming: cheating death and creating new life being primary.And along with this march towards the godlike we are marching towards being machine-like too, as we outsource more and more of our internal algorithms to better data-based external algorithms.
Immortal, All-powerful, Obsolete: this is the future of the Sapiens.
In pursuit of health, happiness and power, humans will gradually change first one of their features and then another, and another, until they will no longer be human.” ― Yuval Noah Harari, Homo Deus: A Brief History of TomorrowHarari takes us, with this continuation to his blockbuster book Sapiens: A Brief History of Humankind, from the past to the future.
We have miles to go before all of this technology becomes aesthetically amazing, and loses all the wires and clunky functionality, but it still gives me pause about the future.
Will these gains through AI, technology, genetic modification, etc., be well-thought-out?
He writes that the best reason to study history is not to predict the future, but to "free yourself of the past and imagine alternative destinies."Harari has some interesting insights into the founding of modern religions.
A peasant in 1850 in China or Britain had a worse life than an archaic hunter-gatherer, from the point of view of diet and hygiene.Harari has some unique insights into the dichotomy between religion and science.
So, since religion and science prefer order and power over truth, they "make good bedfellows."Modernity is a simple deal based on a contract: Humans agree to give up meaning in exchange for power.
Harari describes three different possible futures for humanism.
This is already happening at a very rough scale (for instance, there are drugs that are more effective on people of African American descent) - but in the near future, rather than upgrade themselves, the rich people would simply have far more effective cancer treatment because they'd be able to afford genotyping and personal medicine.If the cyborg-upgrade part sounds to you like a bad synopsis of a Neal Stephenson novel, you're absolutely right.

In Homo Deus, Harari holds that now that humanity has all but solved the mammoth problems plaguing it before the 21st century - disease, famine, and violence - it will turn to a new agenda, namely attaining happiness, immortality, and divinity.
Even though he states that Homo Deus is meant to help readers explore all possible future routes of humankind, the book still induced an ominous feeling in me the whole way.
The belief in this hi-tech Ark is currently one of the biggest threats to the future of humankind and of the entire ecosystem.
Não lembro do que li que me fez pensar tanto e mudar a forma como vejo o mundo.
Uma ótima análise rápida sobre como chegamos aqui, que se conecta muito bem com o Sapiens: A Brief History of Humankind, e uma análise mais extensa sobre para onde podemos ir.
E a reflexão que ele traz sobre os valores que damos para o valor individual, consciência e autonomia só deve ganhar importância nos próximos anos.
Com certeza algo que vou reler muito ainda.p.s. O livro sai em alguns meses ainda, tive a oportunidade de fazer a revisão técnica da versão em português.
We are not so taken aback when we hear computer programs can beat human chess masters.
If you're a believer in this sort of human distinctiveness, perhaps you would naturally be thrown off upon hearing that a computer program written by a professor of musicology produced musical piece that the audience thought was superior to Bach.
If programs can outperform us in our allegedly distinct 'human art' form, there's really no reason to think that it can't outperform us in every other field.
Dr Hariri is no different to a WW1 general asking people to sacrifice some of their one and only life to benefit some unknown present or future person or animal with zero guarantees the sacrifice pays off but 100% certainty of the personal cost.
The future is not a destination we choose any effort to dictate global outcomes never succeeds and this book is just another "I know best contribution" that will soon be forgotten.Generally the book feels as a world view supported selectively and not the wonderful voyage of discovery presented in Sapiens.
The title and the premise of Yuval Noah Harari’s Home Deus: A Brief History of Tomorrow sounds intriguing; however, not much felt new.
While that may be true, I was hoping to hear more about the future, the tomorrow in Harari’s subtitle, than the past.
The final quarter of the book did focus on that tomorrow (what the job market might look like, whether man or some people in the job market might end up being completely superfluous, the future role of AIs in our society etc.), but I would have preferred more of that analysis earlier in the book.
A year or so ago I read an interview with Harari on this book, which was still work in progress, and I found his views on biological inequality (and, to a lesser extent, the decoupling of intelligence from consciousness) very insightful.
Actually, it was that interview that inspired me to read Sapiens, which, despite certain flaws, unfortunately amplified in Deus, is a book definitely worth reading.
A portion of that is a repetition from Sapiens, but most sounds like extended paragraphs from high school textbooks which are intended – I guess – to support each chapter’s main claim, but fail to do so, as they are not inserted in any kind of persuasive argumentation.
Excellent again. Harari is fast becoming one of my favourite writers.I didn't love  Homo Deus quite as much as  Sapiens, but I think that's because the history Harari takes us through in the latter really does read like a very compelling novel. This book explores different themes and theories about the future of humanity - relating to aging, technological advancements, etc. - which makes it not as cohesive. Still, though, very interesting. He really knows how to break down complex concepts so everyone can understand them.
As with Santa, the mere fact that a working hypothesis produces a desirable and convenient result does not make it correct.Take famine.
Across the data-set of what we actually know, about what is actually happening, at the present time?
More important, we ought to consider what might have happened, in recent history (has humanity quite possibly been merely lucky not to have experienced a mega-famine, in recent times (we may have come close, for instance, in 2007-9, during which period most of the world's countries resorted to banning food exports)?
I think Homo Deus poses some excellent questions that make you question your existence.
Why do we think of ourselves as superior to all other life forms.
Harari's writing style is very engaging.
He's a bit of sarcastic when he questions religion, our history, science, technology, humanity, our supposedly superior position to other life forms, humanism, liberalism, yet he doesn't claim that he's some expert in this matter, he just gives you a set of facts.Thank you Yuval Noah Harari for writing this & Random House UK, Vintage Publishing Harvill Secker and Netgalley for this copy in exchange for an honest review.
I’ve only read one other book written by Yuval Noah Harari and that was Sapiens: A Brief History of Humankind, this follows in the steps of that to the point that it seems more like a sequel even if they can be read in whatever order you wish.
Homo Deus is a book that wants to present the possible roads that the future might lead us to.
Overall the ideas presented here are by no means original, but Yuval Noah Harari deserves credit for the way it managed to gather and present so many ideas in a way that not only made sense but was also easy to understand and follow, all that while also being surprisingly entertaining.
Having secured unprecedented levels of prosperity, health and harmony, and given our past record and our current values, humanity’s next targets are likely to be immortality, happiness and divinity.
Having reduced mortality from starvation, disease and violence, we will now aim to overcome old age and even death itself.
Having saved people from abject misery, we will now aim to make them positively happy.
And having raised humanity above the beastly level of survival struggles, we will now aim to upgrade humans into gods, and turn Homo sapiens into Homo deus.
Homo sapiens (modern humans) were able to gain dominance over all of nature because of their ability to communicate and to collaborate with each other and because they could use their collective brain to come up with novel ideas, but as technology progresses and we rely more and more in computers and algorithms these computers programs are based on , are we as a species giving up dominance to technology?
And if we become obsolete who or what is primed to take over the mantle and what will happens to Homo Sapiens once it does happen?
So good and scary at the same time!
And yes - there are brilliant new themes in Homo Deus as well - our delusion of free will and the Sapiens in a future world ruled by algorithms, and it continues excellently from where Sapiens left off.
The theme of the power of stories - to bind and also delude is continued in Homo Deus.
How would humans feels if a more advanced species (spawned off by artificial intelligence) should make judgements and kill undesirable humans?There are fairly long discussions around political systems and the growth of liberalism.
Humans have acquired a combination of intellect and consciousness which was regarded as necessary for being advanced life forms at the top of the pyramid.
A great and ausual book.
When considering many more books about the same topic, "how we are going to be", Harari's arguments are more than satisfying and his reasonings are both terrifying and educated.
I believe his warnings were the most accurate, I could have found on the topic of technologies and how they may be a danger to us.
However, Harari's predictions are actually possible and are risen from just fear of unknown.
Rather his warnings are based on what we know is possible.
I adore and recommend this book, as a great sequel to "Sapiens" by Harari.
We may find ourselves in a world that we decide things like who to vote for, who to love, what to do and practically any decision with the help of algorithms.In his very distinctive and persuasive style, the author uses his vast sociological and historical knowledge and tries to predict what will be the direction that the human race will take in the 21st century.
On the way, he explains how humanism and other "religions" changed the way humans think and may change the destination of humans.I loved this book.
Genellikle insanlar Hayvanlardan Tanrılara - Sapiens: İnsan Türünün Kısa Bir Tarihi ile kıyaslamış bu kitabı.
Popüler bilim ile ilgilenenleri bu alanda yazılmış harikulade kitaplar olan; Cosmos, Üçüncü Şempanze, Cennetin Ejderleri gibi kitaplara yönlendirmek istiyorum.
Bu bölümün bana özgün gelmesi de benim cahilliğimden kaynaklı olabilir zira bugüne kadar bu tartışmalara böyle bir bakış açısıyla bakıldığına (yani isteklerimizi yerine getirmede özgür olsak da isteklerimizi biz seçmedik) hiç şahit olmamıştım.Bu kitap okunmalı mı?
Hatta, Sapiens'ten bile sonralarda olması gerekir.
Zira ne anlatmaya çalıştığını kendisi bile bilmiyor bu kitapta.
Ordan burdan derlenen bilgiler dışında özgün bir bilgi de yok.
Tương lai của con người ra sao: siêu nhân, á thánh dưới dạng những con người gắn chíp, có thể tái tạo và gần như là bất tử, hay con người sẽ chỉ là nô lệ cho Dữ liệu giáo (Dataism), bị vứt đi, vặt vãnh trong quá trình xây dựng một hệ thốn thông tin kết nối mọi thứ?Con người là gì?
Đã xa rồi cái thời con người thở phào nhẹ nhõm khi Kasparov đánh bại Deep Blue và giờ đây con người đang ở ngưỡng không còn có cửa nào để có thể thông minh hơn máy (cho dù vẫn chế tạo ra máy).
But the single greatest constant of history is that everything changes."Knowing where we are is a prerequisite for having any idea of where we are going.
Common fantasies is what put humans on top.
Humanism puts the human liberty and free will first, and individualism.
I never considered humanism another religion.
I didn't really equate the bill of human rights with the ten commandments.
Yet humanism and the internal conflicts within almost tore the world apart in the 20th century.
However, individual liberty is not likely to continue.
Human value is likely to be surpassed.
Sapiens was a great book in that it explained, briefly, what you need to know to understand humans today.Homo Deus attempts to do the same thing, but for the future.
It let's you know the important technical advances that could have huge implications to society: specifically technologies that could end liberalism, humanism, and capitalism.It's hard to imagine a current world without one of those things.
But in the not-to-distant future, all three of them could be gone.Harari makes the case that technology has, objectively, made the world a better place over time.
A brief history of tomorrow brings us an insight of the authors focus towards humanity's future and quest to upgrade humans into Gods.Humankind has been able to rein in famine, plague and war. For the first time ever more people die from eating too much than from eating to little. More people die from old age than from infectious diseases. A wonderfully written insight to our future.I would like to thank Net Galley, Random House UK, Vintage Publishing and the author Yuval Noah Harari for my ARC in exchange for an honest review.
Really interesting.
This book is sure to give one a lot to think about.Firstly, I’d highly recommend reading Harari’s seminal Sapiens book before delving into Homo Deus.
While constantly mind-blowing, Harari writes in a readable engaging style which may or may not be oversimplifying depending on how good his research is…I originally thought Homo Deus would be a book about transhumanism, and it is to some degree, but it’s not meant to give the details on how cybernetic movements will work in the technological sense.
It’s interesting how he defines religions, which don’t require belief in the supernatural and rather any thought process which ends in ‘-ism’ can pretty much be a religion.
