https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3032644-the-dude-ranger
My husband reads Zane Grey and Louis L'Amour to exclusion (almost) of all other authors, so I thought I'd pick one up.
Ernest inherits a ranch in Arizona he's never seen.
When he arrives, sure enough, there's shady dealing--but the rotten manager also has the most beautiful daughter Ernest has ever seen.
He has to decide whether to take over things immediately or get the daughter to fall in love with him first as a common cowboy--a thing she's sworn never to stoop to because her heart is with the ranch and she wants to marry the owner.
But Ernest wants her to marry him for love, not mercernary purposes.
Westerns, always good.
Slow, laconic, overstuffed western novel. Very little action, mostly mental arguments and feelings that come forward. Can be caled a Western Love Story
Great exciting western story. Kept wanting to continue reading without quiting.
A Western StoryFirst time reading a Zane Grey book. Enjoyed it, liked descriptions of the cowboys and the scenery. Will read another Zane Grey
Great book!Zane did it again.Probably his best! Give it a try you won't be sorry. Love the way he writes...clever! Ohboy
READ THIS BOOK!!!It was a great western story! The action started right away and kept me turning every page without wanting to set it down for a minute. I love the way Grey describes the landscapes and personalities of the great west. It really created an image of an epic western movie in my mind. I wished that it didnt end I was still reading about what happens next... but unfortunately thats not how it works. oh well for me... I'll just have to find more Zane Grey books to read!
No one wrote "dude" westerns like Zane Grey. And this is probably the best of his dude tales. Farm boy from Iowa inherits a ranch from a rich uncle (we could all do with one of those). But the ranch is losing money -- why? The dude goes undercover to find out. I'm a big fan of excellent genre fiction.
Very interesting and well-written, as usual for Zane Grey. I like the friendship of Ernest and Nebraskie, and how Ernest tries to win Anne. It all unfolded interestingly, and wrapped up well, with the author keeping things waiting til their appropriate time for each point of the story as Ernest figures out how to bring everything off.
I'd like to go 2.5 stars. As much about relationships as the old west. Not a bad thing, just not what I was wanting. I'll try some more of Grey's books for myself before giving up on him. Some might call it a "Women's Western".
Good, not great Western, with predictable plot and outcome.
nice
