https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/231604.D_j_Dead
I am a huge fan of the TV series Bones, which is loosely based off Kathy Reichs' series, of which this is the first book.
I guess it really is the lack of humor and relatability that makes this book such a disappointment after watching and loving the show.
Call me shallow, but I prefer my fascinating forensic details served up with a little humor, romance, and appealing, attractive characters.
I like a BALANCE of humor and forensic details, romantic tension and reality.
Bones has become almost farsical humor, and that makes me sad.
However, I think this book is a lot better than the show and I liked the first seasons of Bones.
The character seems more human.
There really is very little actual French in the book and most characters speak to her in English as Brennan is an American-born doctor.
There isn't a lot of romantic tension in this book.
This book isn't for people who want to read sunshine and roses or want a superhero who always saves the day.
If you've never read a crime novel or aren't really into them I'd suggest something else- not this series.
Honestly, I didn't like this book much during the first several chapters.
There are some major differences between the tv and the book versions of the main character, which was a transition for me, but I ended up like it.I loved the end of the book, I thought that was very well written.
lolOverall I did enjoy the book and I read it very quickly...her use of foreshadowing was impressive and kept me wanting to turn the next page.I'd definitely recommend this book and I will be continuing the series.
This was my first exposure to Kathy Reichs, and I must say, I'm impressed!
As a fan of the TV show Bones, I found this debut novel of Dr. Brennan much more enjoyable than the TV character.
The book had plenty of twists and turns while keeping a quick pace.
The only turn off for me was the French names and locations...I found it difficult to distinguish between the characters and locations, but that is understandable due to the book taking place in Montreal.
I look forward to continuing the story of Dr. Brennan and her graphic descriptions of murder scenes!!
Or like the show in general.Deja Dead is the first book of the Temperance Brennan series.
Which is where you meet the character Temperance Brennan..
Sadly, it's not set in D.C. and her people are not in it either.
yet.Temperance is an okay kind of character - just like she is in the first episode of the tv show.
it's just set in Canada.
Then there's some sort of love interest, at least in my eyes, and that's with detective Andrew Ryan.
It's kind of sad to see that happen but it does make the book a bit more interesting.
some real examples:"In my mind’s eye I could see her standing at a pay phone, scanning her surroundings, her eyes never resting, broadcasting fear like Radio Free Europe."or"She was thin as soup in a homeless shelter"or"For the third time in as many days I saw daybreak, an event I embrace as eagerly as Joe Montana welcomes an all-out blitz."i don't even know what that means.not to mention such general sparklers as:"I had enough pharmaceuticals in me to numb the Iraqi army ..."the iraqi army is an odd choice for a book published in 1998, though i guess it takes place in 1994.
When I read up on her books on Amazon it said "Better than Patricia Cornwell!!" so I thought DAMN this MUST be good, seeing as I loved many of PC's earlier novels.
Not only did it suck...
Not only did it suck...
but it sucked hardcore.
If it's not substantially better than this one within the first 1/4 of the book.
I'm tossing them both.As for the 'Better than Patricia Cornwell' crap.
What a joke, this book wasn't even better than PC's WORST.
My first introduction to Temperance Brennan was through Emily Deschanel’s great performance in the hit show Bones.I’m currently working my way through the boxset and eventually planned on reading these books, but as it’s been established numerous times in the series that these books are separate entities I decided I might as well start now.This Temperance is so completely different.
It did feel slightly slow in places.I’m sure that once I get used to this original version of Brennan, I’m going to enjoy this series even more!
there is literally zero parallels between the book and tv series, apart from the main character sharing a name.
This book has no Booth, Zack, Angela, Hodgins, Sweets or any of your other well loved characters.
During one of her stints in Quebec, a string of mutilated (all very graphically described, heavy emphasis on the sexual mutilations, so be wary if that's something you might find hard to handle.) female bodies come onto her table and Tempe's the only one who seems to see the link.
I became sick of her running into dangerous situations by herself, just to prove a point.
Or perhaps I should say Patricia Cornwell's remind me of Kathy Reich's, seeing as KR first began writing in the forensic's genre before PC did, add to that a the fact that KR's real life in many ways parallel's the fictional character of Tempe Brennan and you have a book with a particular flavor of authenticity that you can only get from a writer who has done more than just simply research a subject.If you are looking for books that set the foundation for the current multimedia love for forensic work crossing into the realm of detective investigation, these a great series of books to spend your time with, just keep in mind, that these books tend to be a bit more graphic and gritty than many similarly themed books written by other authors.
They appear and disappear as needed, giving Brennan some kind of useful clue and then vanishing, having served their purpose.
Or, in the case of Gabby, appearing to prove that Brennan has a friend, quickly becoming very annoying, and then vanishing.
To finish I will say this: I will grant that this is Kathy Reichs first book, and having read a later one I can say I think her writing improves a bit (then again it's been awhile since I read that...) and that I did finish this one because I was interested in seeing who the criminal was (and what his motivation was, which sadly was not explained as fully as I would have liked it to be).
And as everyone knows, the book(s) that a TV show, mini-series, or movie is based upon are always better… boy was I wrong.I love forensics stories with a good plot & this one has that, BUT I just can’t get involved with the book’s “Tempe” because she’s sooooo much weaker than the “Bones” I am used to.The TV show must be extremely, loosely based off this book series or they had to pay the author just for the character’s name, Temperance Brennan.
I'm happy to report I've found a new series that I really enjoyed-- although not for the faint of heart or sensitive of stomachs.
It took me longer than usual to get over the opening chapters because this author is as precise in the physiological details as I've ever read-- I could practically smell the decay.
However, I did agree with one of the book notes-- if you like Patricia Cornwell, then you'll enjoy this author just as much!
I've been looking for a new mystery series to indulge myself in, and this one is perfect!
My 2nd problem, surprisingly, was not the first-person narrative, which usually leaves me wondering why others are doing what they're doing - there was some of that, but it was mostly workable, except for her good friend Gabby; I never felt that I got to know her.
No, my 2nd problem was when this highly-intelligent person develops TSTL tendencies, such as when she goes out alone to a less-than-desirable neighborhood on a dark and stormy night knowing that a serial killer is out there somewhere!On the positive side, I felt that the thriller/suspense mystery was very well-done, so on balance this is 3.5*.
I love a good mystery, so will read the next in the series, hoping that the problems mentioned above do not continue.
From the start of the book I just couldn't get into it.
Things I didn't like about Deja Dead:- The French and English writing.
I know the book is set in Montreal, but the author doesn't have to point out what language people are speaking.
Also the author would translate some french words, but leave others.
I ended up just skimming over the french words.
Couldn't connect with her at all.
- I didn't care about any of the characters in the book, even the murder victims.
Even though I've heard that the books get better, I'm done with this series for now.
I am only sorry for waiting so long to read it. Great story! I think KR does have a sense of humor and I loved all of the technical stuff. Another series added to my list.
As to her best friend, I was almost happy she was murdered, so that she wouldn't make any more annoying appearances in the plot.I hated the language of this book- the dialogues are probably meant to be dynamic, but the result is a bit neanderthal, with the characters communicating almost in monosyllables.
Also, there are way too many details- I guess they were meant to provide some (or, rather, any) personality to the characters, but I honestly don't care which part of her body Tempe was soaping with circular movements (breasts), just like I am not interested in the make of her car, her lunch, breakfast, drinks, shoes...
I love how Kathy Reichs makes her novels seem real, and like the reader is actually part of the story while following Temperance Brennan!
The first novel of Kathy Reichs's series follows Temperance deciding to go on a little vacation, but finding out that a corpse discovered is not from an old burial site but instead a dismembered female in trash bags.
Tempe must crack the case and find out who killed this poor female before it is too late!The story itself was very smart, and I didn't see the ending coming.
I love Kathy Reichs and her Temperance Brennan series!
I had a good time reading this book, it's my second read by Reichs and I'm looking forward to more.
As the police doesn't seem to give credence to her serial murder theory Tempe takes more chances to prove she is right and soon finds herself in danger and the target of the killer's attention.However I would have liked it even more if there was more focus on the criminal profile - it was a mystery till the end regarding who it was and what were the motivations, and if there was more contextualization of Brennan's character and life.
"برينان" عالمة انثروبيولوجيا تعمل على فحص العظام وكتابة التقارير اللازمة كدعم تقنى للمحققين الجنائيين وذلك للكشف عن القتلة  كنت اتابع بشغف تلك المعارك الحوارية بينها وبين المحقق "كلوديل" العنيد المتغطرس وصعب المراس الذي لم يكن يتقبل منها اى مساعدة ويستهين بذكاءها القاتل المتسلسل هنا كان يرتكب جريمته ببشاعة مخيفة وغضضت الطرف عنها بالرغم من فضولى لمعرفة القاتل لكن جل اهتمامى كان موجهاً على علم الانثروبيولجيا ترانى هل اعمل مساعدة للمفتش الجنائي هارى فى روايات "جو نيسبو" ام اعمل مساعدة ل"برينان" في اعمال "كاتى ريكس" :))
The best because it’s no doubt brought a whole slew of new, eager readers to these books—including ones like me, who are really only sporadic watchers of the show.
At which point they will discover that this book is—to me, sadly—nothing like the show.The main character both on TV and in print is called Temperance Brennan, and in both mediums she is a forensic anthropologist.
(I’m not sure I as a reader ever need to hear about every stray song lyric that gets stuck in a character’s head.)I have to say, I really prefer my main characters to be oddballs.
now i am hooked. This was such a great, easy and creative book. i was hooked after the first page. The characters were easy to fall in love with and follow, along with the story. the author made the mental visions so easy and vivid of the surroundings and the characters actions felt so real.i would highly recommend this author and this book.
64th book read in 2016.Number 129 out of 557 on my all time book list.Review Pending:
The main plot of the book was well weaved to keep it twisting and turning with new events and suspects however I did find it to be less gripping than other crime/thriller novels I have read such as the Tess Gerritsen Rizzoli and Isle's series.This book takes place in a bi-lingual area which results in the characters often switching between English and French, there are many occasions where something is written in French and then translated to remind the reader of this.At times in this novel when the various medical and forensic examiners are together discussing findings there is a lot of technical talk that I felt wasn't always then explained in simpler terms and I got a little bogged down trying to work my way through all of what was being said about various tests.
So this will be a ramble fest – I apologize in advance.The mystery is very intriguing and it really grips you but I found myself going “just spit it out” a lot because I felt like the characters new something but wouldn’t admit until the author was ready.
Not a big problem but the author kept dropping hints and you’re like just say it.Temperance Brennan has got to be one of the most annoying characters ever written.
Sometimes you’re like this is completely unrealistic and put in the book to simply allow for Dr. Brennan to be put in dangerous situations.
I have been wanting to read this series for aaages and so I’m glad that I’ve finally started.
I was quite surprised how different this was to the TV series.
Temperance Brennan was a completely different character.
I think I like the book version better - she is more believable and relatable.
The murder-mystery in this book was well written and well plotted.
Also being from the mid-90’s, reading this really made me appreciate mobile phones!
Overall, while I didn’t find it totally gripping or anything, it was an enjoyable book and I will (eventually) continue on with the series.
This felt like forever….So, in case you’re not aware: This is the first book in the Temperance Brennan series by Kathy Reichs on which the famous TV show Bones is based on.
In fact, the series just took the character of Temperance Brennan, made her 10 years younger, deleted all her back story and made her solve crimes with her anthropologic skills.
(hide spoiler)]I probably won’t continue the book series and will just watch the TV show, since I just like the characters better and I just didn’t enjoy the story and the writing enough.
This is a first-person tale, told from the perspective of 'Temperance Brennan.' I just didn't like her much.
At one point (this book is from 1998 and set in 1994, so let that temper your opinion of the following) she describes the process of sending an e-mail to her daughter.
And I have a problem if I read a book about the job of the main character and I fell the entire time that the man character would love to do anything but what she's supposed to do because it seems her job!
So wasn't the biggest fan of that here.All in all, even when I just spend a good amount of time talking this book down....
all I can say is that it's not a bad crime book but if you love the show?
This book is nothing like the TV show "Bones" unless you count the main character's name and profession.Okay, now...
I felt like the other people in the story were interesting only if Tempe paid much attention to them in her thoughts, which is how this story is filtered.
I am a little disappointed in who the killer turned out to be, although it did make sense in the end.
My main gripe with this story is that the dialogue between Tempe and the killer during the end climactic scene was forced and unnatural.
