https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1289991.Lettre_un_otage
Saint-Exupéry wrote the book as a tribute to his close friend Léon Werth, a French Jewish writer and art critic to whom The Little Prince was dedicated*.
While Werth is the hostage of the title, Saint-Exupéry saw all French people living under occupation as hostages and the work speaks of the strength of his feeling for them and for France.
* The English translation of the dedication to Werth in The Little Prince reads: To Leon Werth I ask children to forgive me for dedicating this book to a grown-up.
In spite of decoys, jolts, and ruts, you have continued to plod like a horse drawing a cart.*THAT IS UNDOUBTEDLY why, my friend, I need your friendship so badly.
You question me as one questions a traveller.As, like anyone else, I need to be appreciated, I feel pure in you and come to you.
But because you have accepted me as I am, you are indulgent, when necessary, towards those doings and sayings.
I need to sit by you, once more, on the banks of the Saône, with my elbows on the table of a little old wooden inn, and to invite two bargees, and to drink with them in the peace of a smile like the day.
We all need someone to return to, and if we have lost them, the city becomes empty.
We don't miss a place, we miss the people left there; and if this link with the homeland disappears, what is left?Sait-Exupery reminds us of the importance of diversity.
The Nazis had a human ideal and they exterminated those who differed from it.
But if all humans were the same, progress would be impossible, creative thought would disappear.
We need conflicts of thought and word to fulfil ourselves and the world.
Being different is not only okay, it is good.
Even nowadays we all need someone to remind us that.
«چنان از این جدلها، انحصارطلبیها و تعصبها خسته شدهام که حد ندارد. بی آنکه اونیفورمی به تن داشته باشم، بی آنکه ناچار به خواندن آیههایی از کتاب آسمانی باشم، بی آنکه از کوچکترین چیزی که درونم دارم، هرچه میخواهد باشد، چشم بپوشم، به خانهی تو میآیم. کنار تو نیازی به تبرئه کردنم، اثبات چیزی و یا دفاع از خودم ندارم؛ [...] تو فراتر از واژههای ناشیانهای که به کار میبرم، فراتر از استدلالهایم که میتوانند مرا بفریبند، خیلی ساده در من یک انسان را در نظر میگیری.»
«چنان از این جدل‌ها، انحصارطلبی‌ها و تعصب‌ها خسته شده‌ام که حد ندارد. بی‌ آنکه اونیفورمی به تن داشته باشم، بی آنکه ناچار به خواندن آیه‌هایی از کتاب آسمانی باشم، بی آنکه از کوچکترین چیزی که درونم دارم، هرچه میخواهد باشد، چشم بپوشم، به خانه‌ی تو می‌آیم. کنار تو نیازی به تبرئه کردنم، اثبات چیزی و یا دفاع از خودم ندارم؛ [...] تو فراتر از واژه‌های ناشیانه‌ای که به کار میبرم، فراتر از استدلال‌هایم که میتوانند مرا بفریبند، خیلی ساده در من یک انسان را در نظر می‌گیری.»
At a time of wars and violence and while he was waiting in Portugal for a passage to the United States, the aviator Antoine de Saint-Exupéry wrote an inspiring letter to his friend Léon Werth, a hostage. « Lettre à un otage » is about friendship and humanity. It is about homesickness healed by hope. It is about the importance of respect. Respect. Respect. And respect; the foundation of civilizations. It is about a smile..I normally underline in books but I gave up underlining in this book so much every sentence was a combination of beauty, wisdom and truth.
Το γράμμα σ' έναν όμηρο, είναι στην πραγματικότητα ένα γράμμα που γράφει ο ίδιος ο Εξυπερύ (συγγραφέας του Μικρού Πρίγκιπα) προς τους υπόδουλους Γάλλους, στη διάρκεια του β' παγκοσμίου πολέμου.Επίκαιρο όσο ποτέ το έργο που θεωρείται ως ύμνος στη φιλία, καθώς εκφράζει την αγωνία εκείνων που έφυγαν πρόσφυγες στην Αμερική όταν η χώρα τους κατακτήθηκε από τους ναζιστές. Ξεχωρίζει η φράση... μαχόμαστε τους ναζί, γιατί εκείνοι σέβονται (ως ανθρώπους) μόνο τους όμοιούς τους.
Για όλους τους φίλους μου που θέλουν να φύγουν έξω:"Θέλω να είμαι ταξιδιώτης. Όχι πρόσφυγας."
Antoine de Saint-Exupery met the anarchist writer Leon Werth in the early 1930s, and the two became very close friends, with The Little Prince being written for Werth, as well as this stirring treatise on home, exile, friendship, freedom, and occupation.
It is the acceptance of who I am which made you, at need, indulgent to these things as to these formulae.
"...Tıpkı aşk hatıralarının da en başta olduğu gibi. Aşk mektuplarını bir araya toplayıp bir deste yaparsınız. Bunlara birkaç hatıra eklersiniz. Hepsini büyük bir özenle birbirine tutturursunuz. Ve bu yadigârlar önce hüzünlü bir cazibe yaratır. Sonra mavi gözlü, sarı saçlı bir güzel geçer ve yadigârlar ölür. Zira arkadaş da, meslek de, memleket de, eve dair hatıralar da artık bir işe yaramadıkları taktirde renklerini kaybeder." Exupéry'nin dostuna dair bir hasret mektubu aslında ve aslında, asıl güzel kısım en sonunda (ama uzun, alıntılamaya üşendim o yüzden). Fakat hatıralar ve onların temelleri söz konusu olduğunda ben bambaşka bir kafaya geliyorum.Kısacık ama harika bir anlatı.
Kısacık ama çok sağlam. Özellikle altıncı bölüm, herkes tarafından okunmalı...
A marvelous small book written with a sensitivity that even today is touching.
The Author of "Little Prince" is writing to the same Jewish friend that he dedicated "little Prince" to: his friend Leon Werth.
Side by side with incredible beauty, art and architecture, there are people leaving as rich refugees who pretend to themselves (no one else believes it) that they are still going to go back to their countries and recover the life they once had.Saint Exupéry refuses this inaction and untruthful state of mind: he yearns to go back to battle, he is on his way to the United States where he will stay for a while and publish several books, including the Little Prince in English and French.After a forward and the letter itself, the Portuguese edition has a short but interesting biography of the Author.Maria Carmo,Lisbon, 18 May 2015.
"L'essentiel, le plus souvent, n'a point de poids.
L'essentiel ici, en apparence, n'a été qu'un sourire.
Un sourire est souvent l'essentiel.
On est payé par un sourire.
On est récompensé par un sourire.
On est animé par un sourire.
Par ailleurs, même s'il a été écrit dans un contexte de guerre, c'est un texte intemporel qui mérite d'être lu.
بسیار خواندنی است. همان دیدگاه انسانی موجود در کتاب مشهور نویسنده با عنوان شازده کوچولو که بسیاری آن را خوانده اند و من بهترین ترجمه اش را از آن احمد شاملو می دانم، در این کتاب هم جریان دارد. و نویسنده تلاش می کند تا این اندیشه که در تاریک ترین زمان ها که جنگ باشد، انسانیت نخواهد مرد را به منتقل کند.
بسیار خواندنی است. همان دیدگاه انسانی موجود در کتاب مشهور نویسنده با عنوان شازده کوچولو که بسیاری آن را خوانده اند و من بهترین ترجمه اش را از آن احمد شاملو می دانم، در این کتاب هم جریان دارد. ‏و نویسنده تلاش می کند تا این اندیشه که در تاریک ترین زمان ها که جنگ باشد، انسانیت نخواهد مرد را به منتقل کند. ‏
چه شادی هایی در دیوار های محافظ و محصور این کودکی نهفته است ! من به خوبی می دانم چه اتفاقی می افتد : اول کودکی ، مدرسه، دوستان هم مدرسه ای و سپس امتحاناتی که باید گذراند یک جور دیپلم به ما داده می شود. فشردگی قلب، از ورودی ای می گذریم که قریب الوقوع مرد هستیم.رد پاهایمان وزن بیشتری را بر زمین تحمیل می کند
يبدو أن هذا الكتاب لم يترجم ككتاب منشور في العربية، وإنما وجدته مقالًا ورد في مجلة "نزوى". قرأت الأصل بالفرنسية، ولأن لغة اكزوبيري شعريّة جدا استعنت بالترجمة العربية كذلك. أفكاره لطيفة، إنسانية وعميقة كما هو اكزوبيري دائما. هنا المقال بالعربية:http://www.nizwa.com/رسالة-الى-رهينة/
I found many striking similarities to the general situation in Lebanon, and loved the descriptions!
Uma visão especial de Portugal nos anos 40s.
Invece in quel libro e in questo c’è l’Antoine che non avevo colto, quello che in maniera serena ti parla di cose immense con una tale capacità, da lasciarti la sensazione che fossero piccole e semplici.Un libricino piccolo solo nel formato, grande nei contenuti.E rimane nel cuore una delle sue frasi “Non c’è che un problema, uno solo, in tutto il mondo: restituire agli uomini un significato spirituale”.Ecco, tutto qui, semplice.Invece si complica tutto perché a spirituale ognuno da un significato diverso, quasi sempre religioso, ma lo spirito esula dalla religione, esula da qualsiasi cosa, è quell’indefinibile ics che ti rende unico e allo stesso tempo indiviso da chiunque altro, è quel qualcosa che solo può davvero dare un senso alla vita.

Знакомясь с творчеством Экзюпери, всегда думаешь о людях. И не понимаешь, зачем в мире всё устроилось именно так. Тотальная обоюдная ненависть человека к человеку и к окружающему его миру. Ранее Экзюпери превозносил старания людей, считая выполнение обязанностей перед обществом полезным делом. Но к чему шло то общество, о благополучии которого он рассказывал? Совершая положительные действия, человек толкает себя в яму грядущих потрясений, где быть человеку раздавленным. Кто погибал на страницах произведений Экзюпери, тот становился героем в глазах окружающих: он не жалел жизни, осознавая возможную её утрату. Теперь разгорелась война, и всё прежнее утратило значение.(c) Trounin
An incredibly relevant meditation on humanity. The message is simple but poignant. We share a common humanity. We must remember that.
By the author of the Little Prince, a moving letter to the nation of France (the titular 'hostage') in World War Two.
3.5
If you listen closely there is a message of unity and hope even for the darkest times
Muy buen texto, inspirador.
Releer a Exupėry es como encontrarse de nuevo con uno mismo

I suspect that this sense of isolation was not so much directed at the Lisbonites but rather at the Americans, though by the date of publication, the United States had entered the war on the side of the Allies and quite possibly had already made a beach head at Normady and were preparing for an assault on the Fatherland.
In a way, the nature of Germany at the time was quite similar to the nature of the American people, which is probably why they did not want to enter the war.
Banyak ide bertebaran di buku singkat--atau surat panjang--ini. Tentang kemanusiaan, persahabatan, dan menjadi manusia.
“Es necesario cultivar por largo tiempo a un amigo antes de que reclame lo que en amistad se le debe. Es necesario haberse arruinado durante generaciones para reparar los viejos castillos que se derrumban, para aprender a amarlos.”
L'uomo si è smarrito su un sentiero dove regnano egoismo, violenza, sete di potere, perdendo così il contatto con la sua natura primordiale che vede nella condivisione pacifica e costruttiva l'unico vero Perché della sua esistenza.
Bisogna dare un senso alla vita degli uomini, parte di una delle tante raccolte in cui sono state riunite lettere e brani, riprende il pensiero di Saint-Exupéry sul fatto che l'uomo ha smarrito la sua natura e che, nel farlo, si è ritrovato inseguitore e partecipe di fatti e idee che dalla sua stessa natura lo han ulteriormente allontanato.
