https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80184.Poor_White
It seems everything I've read about Sherwood Anderson rates Winesburg, Ohio as Anderson's best work, but I like Poor White better.
Like Winesburg, the plot is strongly rooted in the internal struggles of the characters.
While Winesburg is a series of character studies, Poor White takes us along on the journey of Hugh McVey as he grows from a dazed social outcast to an unwitting mover and shaker of commerce, from the 1890s into the 20th century.
Like life 100 or so years ago, the story moves along at a slow pace, but every bit of time I spent reading it felt like time I was unplugged or off the grid.
Industrialization of rural communities in the 1890s.
This book's intent was telling the tale of the impacts of the Industrial Revolution on small-town America as well as telling the personal tale of some of those involved.
But the book got bogged down (in parts) by the boring telling of the story of the lead character (Hugh McVey).
Her portions of the book were the most interesting to me.As far as the Industrial Revolution goes, this book IS IMO too one-sided to be very impactful.
I don't buy that things were all idyllic and thoughtful in America before the Industrial Revolution came along to make everything about money and 'progress'.

I can understand most readers' criticism of this book.
But it's Sherwood Anderson and he's got much to say.
He has left his writing as the definitive stamp for the Midwest (and into Appalachia and other regions), for the turn of the century, and for modern America and the new industrialism.
He's the one who felt it so much he just got up and walked into the cornfields.
I wish he could have walked another hundred years.
Throughout a text that might be criticized as simple, prosaic, and even disjointed, there are scattered some miraculous kernels of insight, beauty, and that lonely, lonely feeling of our age.

One of the greatest American authors of all time. He is a master story teller of an era that will never come again. His character descriptions of their thoughts and feelings and everyday fears is masterful.
This book is rather slow going, a little corny and sensational at times, but it is very good and very human. I give it 4 1/2 stars.
It featured Anderson's characteristic patchwork of character sketches, a sort of pre-Kundera ability to show events from myriad points of view and demonstrating that many conflicts result from different motivations and perceptions regarding the same incidents.
Her father and his cronies are perhaps the foremost beneficiaries of Hugh's genius and the changes he helps bring about; their scheming and striving manages to be both useful and ugly.
The harness-maker, Joe, manages to benefit from the changes and still feels repulsed and cheated by them.
Anderson is heavy-handed with his symbolism.
Sherwood Anderson is best known for WINESBURG, OHIO.
POOR WHITE is another tale set in Ohio in a small town called Bidwell.
Here is the story of industrialization through a small towns's frame of reference.
I will happily get more books by Anderson to take my time to read -- because reading it slow is like savoring a ten-course meal and although you cannot wait to get to the rich chocolate dessert -- all the other courses are so good, you don't want to stop eating them either.
4.5 Es un libro entretenido.
Una imagen cruda del impacto de la industralización en el campo, de la transformación de la vida rural a la vida urbana y de la crueldad que emerge con el dinero, el egoísmo y la avaricia.
Sin embargo, hay algunos pasajes que se antojan innecesarios lo cual, bajo ningún motivo, quita atractivo a la obra.Recomendado para personas que busquen lecturas similares a John Dos Passos y , en menor medida, a William Faulkner.Sherwood Anderson es la puerta y la bienvenida a la generación perdida.
This is a wonderful piece of Americana about the transition of one Ohio city from agriculture to industry. There are also some complex psychological characterizations in the book including a lesbian & feminist character. I read Winesburg, Ohio in many years ago in high school but plan to read it again as there are excerpts in the anthology. I don't know why this book is wider known or taught in school.
i
After reading White Trash- a 400 year history of class in America, this was a breezier version of the same story. White Trash WAS excellent, but this felt like a more personal story brought to life.
I have read many great books within this category, however, this was not one of them.Anderson’s commentary on the burgeoning Industrial Revolution during the early 20th century reads at times like a scholarly work, rather than a piece of fiction, and has an academically dry tone.Born in 1866, Hugh McVey lives with his widowed drunkard of a father who leaves his young son without food or shelter while he disappears on drinking sprees.
Oppressed and reviled by her widowed father, she is sent off to college, not for an education, but for a prospective spouse and to take her away from her father’s home.
He lived with the Shepards until he was nineteen when they moved to a farm Sarah inherited in Michigan.Hugh took over the station master's job when the Shepherd's left and kept the job until for about a year when his father was killed in a quarrel over a dog.
He decided to head east, but not too far telling himself, "I'll go into the northern part of Indiana or Ohio where there must be beautiful towns."He wandered from town to town for three years working various jobs, looking for companionship, struggling to keep his mind from becoming idle, and fixing it on definite things.
Some of the city fathers of Bidwell thought he was working on inventions and his telegraph operator's job was only a bluff.
First published in 1920, it seems dated today, and I found that even if I flipped the pages from time to time I wouldn't lose any of the story line.
Its about a young man who is urged by parent-like figures to work hard and treat life seriously.
Though it's touted as a description of the burgeoning of the middle west as industrialization occurs, it's very simply written, and I could couldn't wait to get back to Charlotte Bronte's "Villette" where I have to keep a finger at the footnote page, as I refer to them so often.
Sherwood Anderson pulls it off.
That said, Anderson is very perceptive of the multifaceted and often-overlapping pulls of progress and nostalgia - the human experience of the modernization process - which makes for the novel's greatest strength.
You get the feeling here that Anderson, as an impressionist of sorts best suited to the portraits and epiphanies of shorter forms, is bumping up against his maximum length.
In some ways it's a strength, as you get a certain feel for the community involved, which he deftly allows to slip as that community burgeons into urbanity beyond the intimacy of its original smallness.
Anderson intimately familiarizes us with the landscape and the characters to the point that we can notice and reflect upon their coinciding and interconnected evolutions.
The story's dilemma lies in how this evolution, seen early on in the book as a wholly positive thing, can also corrupt the virgin lands and minds that it improves upon.
This may be a bit of a pessimistic narrative, but Anderson's attempt to highlight an inherent innocence found deep within the human spirit, subdued but occasionally rising up to overcome our materialistic urges, should too plant hope in the mind of most observant readers.
His style is so unsettling to me.
It’s so odd in the sense that everything’s so NORMAL to the point of extreme sleepiness of descriptive prose and top-level dialogue and clearly arranged chronology and blandish development but still, this banal scene and the faintest glimmer in each otherwise matte eye, is always infused with a sense of extreme anxiety that is definitively sticky and macabre.
He should’ve tried his hand at horror.
Yeah, there’s a G-rated lesbian bit and some clean, brisk violence, but nothing at all to reveal that it's actually some coded creepy-alien message...to his planet....to molest earth children.
If you like a story that talks about a town and everybody in it--the strange guy out at the telegraph office, the huckster that schemes for wealth as he piggybacks onto somebody else's idea, the oldsters who can't stand change and the young folks who swirl with the ambitions of their age, you would probably like Poor White.
Set in fictional Bidwell, Ohio, just as the machine age ushers in, it portrays a vigorous, hopeful time that I'm kind of sorry I missed.The author, though, regretted the coming of the machines.
His "most sensual" passages (according to reviewers) lament the passing of a bucolic age.
Underrated
Anderson is, no doubt, one of the most important American writers. It's true that he excels at short-format writing, such as those examples compiled  Winesburg, Ohio . This attempt at a longer work, while it has its flashes of inspiration, does tend to meander. If you intend to only read one book by Anderson, Winesburg must be it, but if you're a huge fan, Poor White will give you more of a nuanced fix and an extended peek into the writer's view of his subject matter.
I know Anderson is supposed to be a great regional author, but i really think the only reason why he was published was because of the subjects that he wrote about (industrialism vs. nature, hardships of the underprivileged, sexual orientations, and Freudian philosophies. Everything is in exposition and he makes grotesque grammar mistakes. For example: "Hugh builded a wall between them."Great regional author or not, this is a terrible book and i feel sorry for the people who are forced to read it.
A masterpiece! Anderson delves deep into the nation's psyche as small town folks grapple with the changing realities of the industrial revolution. Hugh McVey is born into a life of idle dreaming and is challenged to rise above his poor white ancestry to become a man of material progress. A story of an outsider longing for love and the adoration of society. Brilliant.A critical examination of a farming nation's transformation into a world of factories and automation and the myths of great men
Where Sherwood Anderson succeeds is in his ability to raise the every day normal experience to a place of beauty. He doesn't in the way some authors do by relying on magical realism. Through his simple approach to writing and his ability to root out truths that are nearly almost always relevant if not often realized till Anderson points it out. Anderson is not necessarily an author for the current generation that has grown accustomed to wild twists and turns in story. What Anderson does is tell the stories about people the way they happen in real life imparting truth.
Taking place during the late 1800s, a poor white trash boy gets to escape his background but never quite "fits in" with anyone.
He wanders and eventually ends in a small Ohio town.
The story of the coming age of industry -- factories that turn out labor-saving devices -- and the effect on working people; the story of those who are moneymakers and organizers; the story of young people who don't know how to love -- this book covers all of that and more.
Apparently, this was Anderson's only successful novel -- most of his characters do not know how to live.
while some parts may seem a bit sluggish, it was beautifully descriptive and incredibly insightful. It is really something people should read to understand a bit about where we are today, where we came from, what we gained and what we lost. If you are looking for a lot of plot and action though, this is not your book. I just read Winesburg, Ohio (it had been on my to-read list forever!) and think that book is more enjoyable to read, but I really appreciated this book for its beauty and insight.
I really enjoyed Anderson's description of small town and rural life even though it was idealized. The description made me realize some of life's qualities that are missing from our current post industrial society. The book was a wonderful societal history of the transformation of the rural to the industrial era. The plot was disjointed in parts but the great writing and insightful comments make up for any defects in this area. Every era has its advantages and disadvantages and Anderson describes them beautifully in this book. Highly recommend it!
This book reminded me of the grapes of wrath...like it could be a midwestern prequel to that. It's about a socially awkward, isolated guy who has a gift with math and mechanical reckoning...which shows that our progress from agriculturalism to industrialism was headed by unnatural, isolated people who put all of their energy into their work. It's also just about social isolation in general, as anderson's main theme...people's innability to communicate and resist loneliness. Then there's the whole element of adapting from agriculture to industry, on the scale of small towns.
