https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1578082.Major_Bible_Themes
one of my favorite theology books. simple and clear, have read this many times.
I rated this book five stars in 2006 when I first read it.
Having come to regard dispensationalism as a Biblically improper method of interpreting Scripture, it's hard for me to recommend this book as I first did.
However, while it's system of doctrine is not Biblically solid on some key areas, I'm sure there is still much good a new believer could get from this work.Here is the text of my original review:This book is great for new Christians and any student of the Bible who is looking for a survey of theological topics.
This book is set up to be used in church to teach one major doctrine a week.
I would not recommend it for teaching.
It is great as a review for those who have already studied theology.
It is also good as a reference book to quickly overview a topic.
However, it tells rather than teaches.
Difficult issues are not wrestled with.
In fact, the authors seem to not see any difficulty with some of the most debated issues of theology.
As a summary this is fine, but as a teaching tool this creates dogmatism where it should not be.
This is an outstanding book written by Lewis Sperry Chafer, the founder and former president of Dallas Theological Seminary. Each of the 52 chapters is concise, clearly outlined, and packed with scripture. If every Christian just had a basic understanding of each of these vital doctrines, how much better off would the church of Jesus Christ be today! I have read through it several times and purchase it for all of our church leaders, teachers, and those I'm discipling.Highly recommended!
This is a great survey study of theology. Not perfect, but really, really solid and approachable. Worthwhile for any small group, or individual, who is interested in beholding Christ through Scripture. A wonderful, lovingly written tool.
Has some good info and some not so good. Just depends on your theology. This is basically Chafer's theology/ what he believes about the Bible. So I can say, I agree with a lot of what he says and on some part, I disagree.
A great introduction to biblical doctrine.
For a great panoramic view of Bible doctrines this is a great read
