https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28539.The_Magic_of_Krynn
This book is entertaining.
The stories are okay, but they move quickly, and they fit well into the Dragonlance world.
I reread "The Legacy" to refresh my memory in preparation for Dragons of Summer Flame, and I really enjoyed it.
I'm glad TSR republished it in The Second Generation because it's a better story than this collection accounts for.
I'm surprised it was published in this book first, but it's definitely the best and certainly the best representation of Krynnian Magic (if I may invent the phrase?).
Still, I did enjoy the stories, especially those with Tas, Tanis, Flint, Caramon, and good ol' Raist.

I loved the original trilogy as a kid because I was a full on, geeked out, D&D playin' lunatic!
So it goes.It was fun going back to Krynn and riding along with the characters from the Dragonlance books on other stories taking place both before and after the original series.
I just might have to read some of her Dragonalance novels.Not sure if this series would appeal to those who are not familiar with those first three Dragonalance books, considering the plentiful references in these stories to events that took place in those books but the writing's solid and enjoyable.
I'm not a great fan of short stories, although I did enjoy one or two of these DragonLance-based tales. Surprisingly, in a couple of the offerings by other authors in this book, I found some contradiction of detail, in comparison with the original Chronicles. Personally, I would expect a writer to be completely familiar with the fundamental elements of another author's work before attempting a contribution.
This is a good follow-up to the Twins Trilogy. It was well written and consisted of a series of short stories including answering the question about Raistlin. We find out if he was still alive or if he was indeed dead. This is a must read for those of us who don't want to let Krynn go quite yet.
The stories range from common adventures to really excellent storytelling. It's always a treat to go back to Krynn.
Some of the short stories were great but others were not that great.
It was nice to be able to return to a collection of stories I loved as a child.
I was disappointed to find that I had outgrown the appeal of some of them, but it's still a pretty good collection.
Also disappointing that this book is not currently available in Kindle format, so I had to settle for Audible audiobook, which is MUCH less satisfying to me than reading a physical or Kindle book.
The narration is extremely well done, though, which is nice.
My favorite story from the collection, "The Legacy," definitely does not have the impact and meaning that it once did for me.
The collection is mercifully arranged from least strength to most wrt authoring prowess.Interesting to note the flavor of Krynn vs. Faerun, older D&D novels vs. newer ones. There's a certainly comfortably forced feeling in the Dragon Lance tales. But alas, it is admitted that texts consumed are minimal.All I know is kender are the bomb! Bring 'em to Faerun!Also, the art of Dragon Lance >> Forgotten Realms. Bring back the big hair and bikinis!
I gave the original series all 4s as I devoured them as a long-ago youth and Raistlin is one of my all-time memorable characters. These TALES are not as good (and I only kept #1 and #3 as pertinent to the Raistlin storyline.)
The Magic of Krynn is the first in a series of books with short stories about the lives of the characters in the previous two trilogies of DragonLance.
This is a set of short stories that can be read as a stand alone, but having read the previous books does enhance all the tales.
We get a small glimpse into how his life is effecting the relationship with his three sons as they become adults and go to have their own adventures.My favorite story is probably the one about Tasslehoff Burrfoot, the curious kender who is incapable of fear.
I really only wanted to read the stories by author's I recognized.
When I first read this anthology, I only wanted to read the stories about characters I recognized.
I remember feeling ho-hum about the stories because even though the characters were familiar, different authors wrote them in slightly different ways - they felt a little off to my 12 year-old mind.
Virtually no time passed between the reading of these stories, which reduced the impact of the end of Legends.
The IceWall story also felt a little off since I had recently read Lost Chronicles II which does a better job fleshing out that tale.
The poetic story at the beginning was very smooth, but I could not rellunderstand it.
The other stories, including the novella at the end, were okay, but the book was not that memorable, except for the description of a character who "looked to juggle cows for a living." Speaking of which, I am an amateur juggler, not only of objects such as juggling balls, rings and clubs, but I mentally juggle books(I sometimes read three or more novels at the "same time.") And it works well for me, because when I get bored or wanting a break from one book, I can read another for a while.
This was one of the first short story anthologies that I ever read, and I remember, even back then, not being very impressed with it.Yes, many of my favorite characters returned to star in these short stories, but because the stories were not written by the authors who originally created the characters, the characters themselves felt off.All-in-all, the stories were not that bad, but they were not outstanding, either.
They were a decent read over several afternoons, but they do not measure up to the original books.
(Two of my best friends thought they were getting me the first two books in the series, but they missed the fact that they were getting me book 1 of Tales and book 2 of Legends).
since just about every main character in "Chronicles" has a story here, I think it's the best introduction I could have gotten.
I've read the stories so many times I think I could recite them from memory, so it's hard to choose the "best" story.
For my favorite I think it's a tie between "A Stone's Throw Away" and "Love and Ale", although "Wayward Children" is beautifully tragic and unexpected.
**Duplicate comment for Dragonlance Series 1-9**Ah Raistlin Majere, how could you not like a guy with his own private library of leather-bound books?. . .oh yeah, there was that ruthless pursuit of power thing. Loved this series when I was a kid! My presiding memory of these was one of being encapsulated completely by them and the blanket I wrapped myself in, while on the couch, feigning fever, so I could skip school and read on bitter winter days.
I read this book when it first came out. I was in junior high and had a friend who was reading the Dragonlance books. It was my introduction to the series and it really got me into fantasy. I was disappointed to learn that I picked up short stories at first, but after the first story I was hooked. The Dragonlance books and Gary Gygax's Gord the Rogue books were my favorite books for the next couple of years.
Some excellent short stories in this book. Love and Ale especially I enjoyed. It was nice to read some stories that were related to the epic saga, but didn't need to devote as much time. All in all it was fun and I really liked it. Highly recommend if you've read the first six dragonlance books. Just be sure to read it BEFORE any of the later ones like Dragons of Summer Flame. Good story about Palin Majere was the last story in the book.
This is a really good collection of short stories set in the Dragonlance setting. Most of the short stories provide additional background or stories to the main characters of the Chronicles. They range from being ok to being pretty good short reads. The last multi-chapter story from Weis and Hickman was nothing short of a wonderful aftermath story.
was surprised on starting the Tales trilogy to see that these are in the form of short stories and a bit disappointed but on the whole some of the stories where fun to read but others I felt I had read before in some of the other trilogies!!
This was a loan from a friend and my first foray into the Dragonlance works, about which I knew absolutely nothing. I found many of the stories quite well-written, with the exemption of The Blood Sea Monster. Does that tie into the main series or is itjust arandom and rather
Las historias no son tan interesantes. Para mi gusto solo se salva "la proxima generacion " y "el legado". Las demas me parecieron aburridas. La trilogia anterior fue mucho mejor. Veamos el segundo libro a ver que tal.
3,5 en realidad. Sin embargo, le pongo las tres estrellas porque a veces se me hacía muy pesado. El mundo de Dragonlance me sigue fascinando, pero considero que en esta novela había cuentos que eran prescindibles ya que no hace referencia a ninguno de los personajes principales de la saga.
I was not impressed by this series of short stories from the world of Dragonlance, although their might be one redeeming tale the rest make it not worth the value to buy. If you want to read them try your local library.
Legacy was the best story with Caramon and his son who has inherited magical abilities that may or may not be used for good. Over all the selections were interesting to say the least. This is my first sojourn in the Dragonlance world.
All in all reasonable. Nothing outstanding, but the better tales are in the second half. Still, nothing super, suits as a book to be read in-between. Mainly the tales with Tas, Tanis, Caramon, ... were the more interesting ones.
Mixed bag, but worth it for The Legacy if nothing else (definitely read the Chronicles and the Twins trilogies first).
Love and Ale remains one of my favorite short stories to this day. May we all learn a lesson from the classy way that Otik handles the situation.
WTF is the old man doing fooling around with the Dragonlance series?
