https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11690.Istanbul
(B+) 79% | GoodNotes: An effective, inviting blend of history and memoir. Though the word “melancholy” is overused to the point of cliché.
I’ve spent my life either battling with this melancholy or (like all İstanbullus) making it my own."Identity crisis as the defining element of identity itself - that is an idea only literature can explain and transmit, in conjunction with the black and white photographs of a fictional past glory and the experience of intense life carried out on the streets of modern Istanbul.As readable as Dickens' London tales and Zola's accounts of Paris, Pamuk gives his home town the best tribute possible: he invites literary travellers to participate in the imagination of its torn soul.Brilliant!I couldn't help seeing the city partially with the Scandinavian painter's eyes as well, seeing Zorn's painting of the Bosporus as a visual tribute to the melancholy beauty of local life that Pamuk celebrates.East meets West.
Added to this is descriptions of city-wide feelings, doings, and happenings, and most importantly, the concept of "huzun", a complicated, honorable, tenaciously held communal melancholy that Pamuk believes lies over the city, and of course- the endless big words East and West shoving their heads together in the midst of people just trying to live their lives.Pamuk deals with big questions that fascinate me, such as- How do you go on when all that you know has died?, Do you have to burn the past in order to live in the present?, What does this word "West" mean, and whom does it mean this to?, How do you deal with multiple identities that tear you apart?, What is the psychological effect of the generations who repress themselves in order to get along with the new power nations on the block and survive?, How do you live when all the legends have done it better?, What /is/ this attachment we have for certain places?, Who is allowed to have a "valid" perspective on a place, or a culture, and why do perspectives from certain sources produce such anger?..

وقع اختياري على أورهان ، قرأت هذا الكتاب لأنه أورهان المبدع كما قرأت له في كتابه ألوان أخرى الذي لم أكمله بعد ..
ولأنها اسطنبول التي أعشق ..
هذا الكتاب الذي ما إن تبدأ بقراءة أول صفحة حتى تفوح لك ذاكرة الأمكنة ..
هذا الكتاب المتعمق في ذاكرة اسطنبول ..
حزن البسفور والياليات التي لم تعد موجودة بعد انهيار الخلافة ..
كل هذه التفاصيل التي تشوبها رائحة الماضي بل هي من الماضي فعلاً يقرأها لك أورهان وكأنه يهمس في أذنك ..
هكذا شعرت لما قرأت هذا الكتاب ..
أن أورهان يتحدث بوقار وبأناقة شديدة وهو يتذكر طفولته ..
سمعت عن أورهان فأبهرني ما سمعت ..
در تمام مدتی که کتاب را می خواندم به این فکر می کردم که پاموک با چه تسلطی از استانبول می نویسد، تمام آنچه درباره شهر نوشته اند را خوانده و آن قدر بر آنها مسلط است که می تواند آنها را لابلای خاطرات و برداشت خودش از شهر بتند و روایتی منحصر به فرد و خواندنی ارائه کند که گذشته و حال را در خود دارد.
This is going to be one of the most personal reviews I’ll ever write, but that’s merely because  Istanbul: Memories and the City has affected me personally, more than any other book ever has.
The few past months have been very busy and offered me very little time to read, and yet (stubbornly I guess, and to the amusement of many of my friends) I carried this book everywhere I went to make use of stolen free moments.
The magic in this book was that- while it offered nothing new except the details of Istanbul and its dark alleys which I’ve never been to- it reminded me to observe my own city with fresh eyes.
کتاب رو تموم کردم و نمیتونستم همون طور روی تخت بمونم از شدت خوشی.این کتاب وصفنکردنی خوب بود.«اگر آن قدر در شهری زندگی کرده باشیم که واقعیترین و عمیقترین احساساتمان را به منظریهای آن منتقل کنیم، زمانی میرسد که خیابانها، تصاویر و چشماندازها همان طور که یک آهنگ، عشقی از دست رفته را در خاطرمان زنده میکند، واقعیترین و عمیقترین احساساتشان را به ما منتقل میکنند.»این دقیقا خلاصهی اون چیزی بود که موجب شده نویسنده بتونه کتابی بنویسه که هم از استانبول بگه و هم از زندگی خودش، و نه تنها آشفتگیای احساس نشه، ب
کتاب رو تموم کردم و نمی‌تونستم همون طور روی تخت بمونم از شدت خوشی.این کتاب وصف‌نکردنی خوب بود.«اگر آن قدر در شهری زندگی کرده باشیم که واقعی‌ترین و عمیق‌ترین احساسات‌مان را به منظری‌های آن منتقل کنیم، زمانی می‌رسد که خیابان‌ها، تصاویر و چشم‌اندازها همان طور که یک آهنگ، عشقی از دست رفته را در خاطرمان زنده می‌کند، واقعی‌ترین و عمیق‌ترین احساسات‌شان را به ما منتقل می‌کنند.»این دقیقا خلاصه‌ی اون چیزی بود که موجب شده نویسنده بتونه کتابی بنویسه که هم از استانبول بگه و هم از زندگی خودش، و نه تنها آشفتگی‌ای احساس نشه، بلکه این طور به نظر خواننده بیاد که این دو به هیچ عنوان تفکیک‌پذیر نیستن و ممکن نبوده که جدا جدا راجع بهشون صحبت کنه!چیزهایی که دلم می‌خواست بگم، بدون اون‌هایی که در طی زمان یادم رفته‌شون:یک.
Along with The World's Literature group, I have been reading a lot of books set in Turkey this year. Just check out what I've covered so far! One of the best known Turkish authors has to be Orhan Pamuk. I've only managed to read one book of his so far, but there are many more on my to-read list to get to. I actually think reading this autobiography/memoir first will add some understanding to any of his books that I read in the future. It covers his childhood in Istanbul, up through his college y
Along with The World's Literature group, I have been reading a lot of books set in Turkey this year.
I know Pamuk has been criticized both by the government for not being religious enough and by the public for not being critical of the government enough, but this book makes it clear that he isn't all that interested in making a statement with his writing; he wants to describe.
His descriptions of the black and white landscape of winter is central to Snow, the one book I've read.I've had dreams about the Bosphorus, a strait in Istanbul separating Asia from Europe.
Iskreno progovara o svemu što ga je tištilo, o gradu koji ga je u mladosti gušio i o prodičnim problemima, postepenom siromašenju uzrokovanim očevim lošim snalaskom u porodičnom poslu, zatim o slikarstvu, studiju arhitekture, prvoj ljubavi.Srednji dio knjige zauzimaju podaci o piscima koje je autor smatrao vrijednim spomena.
Pamuk tako pravi paralelu vremena opisanog u tim djelima i Istanbula u kojem je on proveo svoju život.
Roman se proteže na 400 strana i svako poglavlje sadrži prigodne fotografije koje su za čitatelje koji poput mene nikada nisu posjetili Istanbul veoma korisne.
Pišem zato što, više nego bilo čemu drugom, vjerujem književnosti, umjetnosti romana.
ليس كتابًا هو بل موسوعة أهداها كاتب مرموق لمعشوقته "اسطنبول" فخرجت مليئة بالتفاصيل التي أدهشتني لبساطتها وصدقها وألفتها.ومما زاد من غنى الكتاب الصور الفوتوغرافية واللوحات التي انتشرت بين صفحاته، فكان كل مشهد يصفه الكاتب تجد بجانبه الصورة المعبرة عنه، فشعرت معه أنني قطعت تذكرة سفر لاسطنبول وأنا جالسة بمكاني. وعجبتُ لكم التشابه بين مصر وتركيا، وبين اللغتين العربية والتركية.الترجمة بديعة ولكن عابها شئ واحد وهو طول الجُمل المبالغ فيه، فتجد فاصلا بين مبتدأ الجملة وخبرها يصل لأربعة أسطر مما أربكني معظم الوقت.

Pamuk adds another layer to Istanbul’s proverbial description as “the bridge between east and west” by showing how the major Istanbul modernists – poet Yahya Kemal and novelist A.H. Tanpinar, new names to me, I have to follow up – derived a poetics of post-imperial ennui and urban decay from the melancholic image of their city recorded or dreamed by travelling French writers in the nineteenth century.
Elif Batuman in the London Review of Books:The inspiration for the Museum of Innocence came to Pamuk in 1982, while he was having dinner with the last prince of the Ottoman dynasty.
I would like to point out that it seems that this book should be read either before or after The Museum of Innocence because I found myself making it notes of where the novel and this memoir collide.I've never been to Istanbul, but now I want to go.
There are also some extremely moving passages, not just in describing his family, or the feeling of Istanbul, but his only place in society.I do wish, however, that more infromation about the pictures was given and I do wish that they had captions.

بعيدا عن تلك الرومانسية المتكلفة أو الشوفينية القومية التي تجعل الكتّاب يرسمون مدنهم عادة...
و خصوصا تلك المدن التي كان لها ماض تليد في التاريخ و لكنها صارت مدينة متخلفة في العصر الحاضر...
و حين ذكر أيضا أن التغريب هو من جعل الكتّاب المحليين ينظرون لخرائبها و أزقتها البائسة تلك النظرة "الغرائبية" و كأنهم غربيون سائحون، و هذا العشق لهذه الأماكن القديمة و المهترئة في المدينة لم يظهر إلا تقليدا للغربيين في حبهم لها، بعد أن كانت رمزا للتخلف و الفقر في مرحلة أسبق...الذكريات تغطي منذ طفولته إلى مرحلة شبابه الأولي في الجامعة حين كان يدرس العمارة، ثم قرر ترك الجامعة، و ينتهي الكتاب عند جملة يقولها لأمه:"لن أغدو رساما، سأكون كاتبا" ص388أخيرا أنا قرأته بترجمة عبد القادر عبدللي و نشر دار المدى و ترجمة عبد القادر حلوة
ریویوها هم ژانر دارند، این ریویو باب حسرت است. چند سال است ورد زبانم شده «چرا با سابقهی شهری نزدیک به یک قرن، نمیتوانیم به ’شهر‘ فکر کنیم؟» و این کتاب مثال من است. اگر ترجمه کمی دقت بیشتر داشت چهار ستاره و اگر تصویرهاش معنادارتر بود پنج ستاره داشت. «حزن» را پاموک میسازد، حزن مال استانبول نیست، زادهی پاموک است. تاریخ و زیست شهر را تکوینی میخواند.به امید روزی که بتوانیم به شهرهایمان فکر کنیم، به تبریز که آلبوم مصور رنج و تاریخ است، دیگ جوشان؛ به رشت و انزلی که کاش کاش به کلمه بیایند در تصویرهای فر
ریویوها هم ژانر دارند، این ریویو باب حسرت است.
چند سال است ورد زبانم شده «چرا با سابقه‌ی شهری نزدیک به یک قرن، نمی‌توانیم به ’شهر‘ فکر کنیم؟» و این کتاب مثال من است.
«حزن» را پاموک میسازد، حزن مال استانبول نیست، زاده‌ی پاموک است.
This is a duel memoir, that of the author’s first twenty years of life and that of Istanbul during the same period. Pamuk has a poet’s voice. By that, I don’t mean that he uses flowery or metaphoric language, but rather that he has the ability to conjure the abstract into palpable form: the atmosphere of a neighborhood, the bonds in a family, the mood of a people. I was surprised how much I enjoyed this book that lacked any plot or narrative tension. I must have been in just the right mood.
The sufi poets often compare their love for God to that of legendary lovers like Laila-Majnu and Heer-Ranjha for each other.
This love which is just a painful longing (all those love stories are of star crossed lovers) for something worth annihilating oneself for - is called 'Huzun'.
Despite its being melancholic, they still prefer having it - having an unrequited love is better than having none.Writers, the ones I like, often have little such love for God. Some of them seem to searching for such subjects aimlessly.
As he looks back longingly to his childhood memories, he finds it paralleled in Istanbul's longing for older times.
This isn't a pretend metaphor in Lolita, this is Pamuk's loving description of a nobody.
If that's not enough, his best description of Istanbul, one of the largest cities today, and, more importantly, in history, is mopery about his apartment and decaying wooden houses near it.
To spend a day in the tiny English section of a large bookstore and see nothing but Pamuk writings everywhere put me in a decidedly bad mood.Original review:This book can feel so perfectly paced and intimate because he spends a lifetime sitting indoors bemoaning an Istanbul which, he says, doesn't exist anymore.
I stopped reading just after he described his encyclopedic, unread and unwept literary heros, but regret avoiding Istanbul based on his descriptions.
The book contains pictures, but since none of them are captioned it is impossible to know why the author chose them, what point they illustrate in many cases, or who is in them in the case of the occasional family photo.
It might be a very good book in the larger context of Turkish works, but I don't feel that it's very good in my context.
Buku ini sendiri adalah memoar dari Orhan Pamuk, penerima Nobel Sastra 2007.
Walau memoar, tetapi buku ini sepertnya lebih banyak tentang Istambul itu sendiri.
Pamuk sepertinya hendak mengandaikan dirinya dengan kondisi Istanbul yang semakin murung dari hari ke hari.
Istanbul di paruh kedua abad 20 adalah kota yang murung--seperti kata Pamuk.
Dan hasilnya adalah kemurungan yang menggelayuti kota ini.Menarik kiranya membaca bab-bab terakhir buku ini, yang menggambarkan Orhan muda sebagai pelukis.
Hampir sangat sedikit tentang Orhan yang penulis di buku memoar ini, lebih banyak Orhan yang melukis.
"Aku tidak ingin jadi arsitek atau pelukis, aku ingin jadi penulis," ujarnya menutup buku yang murung ini.
تقريبا دو سوم جملات طولاني و سخت فهم ش كه بايد چهار خط ميرفتي پايين تر تا فعل جمله رو ببيني و بعد برگردي اول جمله تا ببيني كلا چي گفته حالا، نياز به ويرايش داشت (مثل همين جمله خودم تقريبا:)) )، از كلمات قلنبه سلنبه ي به زعم خودش شاعرانه اي استفاده كرده بود به دفعات كه واقعا لزومي نداشت و فقط خوانش رو سخت تر مي كرد و فهميدن منظور رو سخت تر و ذهن رو بسيار پراكنده، در كاربرد حرف اضافه ها چندين جا مشكل داشت و اشتباه به كار برده بود جدا، و در كل بنظرم انقدر به روح متن و شاعرانگيش و انتقال دادن اين ها توجه كرده بود كه يادش رفته بود شايد لازمه آدمها اول بتونن متن رو درست بخونن تا بعد حالا بتونن حس و حال رو درك كنن:))
Not only describing the physical condition of Istanbul, Orhan Pamuk also wrote about his love-hate relationship with the city.
In a frank way, he shares how the Istanbullus are trapped between the two worlds, the so called West and East.
Pamuk has been raised in a Western way, by which he encountered many great authors that influence him.
However, in some parts, Pamuk’s honesty annoys me a bit.
Pamuk’s attitude towards religion at the same time represents the ambiguity that most Istanbullus have to face.
Istanbul is a bittersweet love song to a city, composed by one of the greatest living authors the world currently has.
It would be fine if melancholy simply pervaded Pamuk's memoirs as he spun tales of his youth, but there are almost no tales told here, just endless, smothering atmosphere that reminded me of nothing so much as the narrator in David Foster Wallace's "The Depressed Person."I took this with me to Turkey and was never so happy as when I finished and could dump it in the library of a B&B in Sirince and snag an Agatha Christie novel instead.
Pretentious, self-indulgent, and almost laughably immature, Pamuk's "memoir" is best forgotten.
Biografija Istanbula i istovremeno piščeva autobiografska ispovest, zapravo je crno beli esej o melanholiji jednog grada i jedne duše koja život provodi u njemu. Sa dodatkom stotina nekolornih, tamnih i tmurnih fotografija grada kao i isečaka iz porodičnih albuma. Prelepa knjigahttps://bezimenaknjizevnazadruga.word...
He opens with a statement that from a very young age he suspected that somewhere in the streets of Istanbul, there lived another Orhan so much like him that he could pass for his twin, even his double.
In the last chapter, his father apparently led a double life just like in his imagination.
Pamuk manages to intermingle the story about Istanbul and himself - reflecting each other along the way.
The writing style is mostly visual - his trademark - and of course when it comes to sensitive or personal facts, he would be cheeky enough to sort of hide it from the readers, certainly without compromising the dramatic effect nor the reading pleasure.
Bu kitapla ilgili ufak bir çekincem de vardı, Öteki Renkler'i ve Manzaradan Parçalar'ı defalarca okumuş biri olarak, hemen hemen o ayarda bir şeyle karşılaşacağımı düşünüyordum ama içten içe istediğim Orhan Pamuk'un hayatına oradakinden daha çok girebilmekti.
Sonuç olarak beni tatmin edecek seviyede "yeni bir şey"di okuduğum, ama hayalini kurduğum kadar da Orhan Pamuk'un hayatına girdim diyemeyeceğim.
Asla elden bırakmadığı yazar sağduyusuyla İstanbul'un sokaklarını, genç bir yazarın (yahut yazar adayının) annesiyle -çok iyi bildiğim, kavgalarını, ağbisiyle ettiği kavgaları, ilk aşkını da uzun uzun anlatıyor.Genç bir yazar olarak Orhan Pamuk'u daha çok görmek isterdim, belki kitapla ilgili beklentimin karşılanmadığı tek şey buydu.
ای پاموک عزیز شما نشون دادی برای شناخت یک جامعه نیازی نیست آدم جامعه شناس باشه چون انگاری هر خانواده ای بخشی از فرهنگ یک کشور رو به نمایش میذاره و شاید اگه ما سعی کنیم خانواده خودمون رو اصلاح کنیم ( که البته با اصلاح خود شروع میشه) نهایتآ جامعه هست که اصلاح خواهد شد
لم أشعر أني أقرأ سيرة ذاتية بقدر ما شعرت و كأني في رحلة ممتعة في مدينة اسطنبول ، و بالرغم من الجو السوداوي الذي أحاط بالرحلة لا أنكر أني وددت ألا تنتهي .. كنتُ أفهم ببطء أنني أحببتُ اسطنبول لخرائبها و حزنها و عظمتها التي كانت عليها ذات يوم ثم فقدتها ..
