https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/999816.Home_to_Harlem
Claude McKay was a defining poet of the Harlem Renaissance; he was somewhat less great at writing novels, but this one is pretty good.There was a central conflict between the major players in the Harlem Renaissance.
(I'm willing to type the N-word one time.) So, like, Richard Wright savaged Their Eyes Were Watching God, comparing Hurston's dialect to "the minstrel technique that makes the 'white folks' laugh." Claude McKay falls with the first crew, although Home to Harlem straddles the line a bit.
Burning everywhere in dark-eyed Harlem…" All this is [N-word]erati stuff.But the New Negro is represented by Jake's best friend, educated Ray, a stand-in for McKay himself.
Yet, I'm very glad I persisted in turning the leaves, for it ended up being an unexpected delight.Though much of Harlem's epic seems to be a mass of iniquity, this is far too narrow a reading of this work which on many occasions serves as such a fine example of tenderness and divine reflection on blackness in 1920's America, from black, to brown, to lemon yellow, and passing white.And can't we take the rather haphazard existence of the characters in HTH of living in a world of absurdity and little justice?
Reading the parts of Malcolm X's autobiography concerning Boston and Harlem of his age feels like a continuation of McKay's story at times.
As Carlos Bulosan demonstrated the effects of geographical limitations on him and his fellow pinoys in 1930s California in America is in the Heart, McKay clearly demonstrates the limitations structural racism placed on the aspirations and geographical options of Black Americans post-WWI, including for people like Ray who were pursuing an education.
In stark contrast to many protagonists of Harlem Renaissance literature, Jake is neither rural nor well to do.
Not only do McKay's characters speak, presumably, as blacks did during this time, but they also act in a way that, for better or worse, shows the perceived exoticism of Harlem.
While Du Bois'--in my view, wrongly--criticized Home to Harlem for presenting a negative image of American blacks, that is one of the novel's strongest points: McKay creates characters who act as their real life analogues would.
This novel, not intended as some sort of anthropological exercise to convince whites of the similarity of blacks, paints Harlem as the thrilling, lively, vibrant place that it was.
I could try this one heah or that one there but -- Rabbit foot!
I didn't even git her name.'""Jake and Zeddy picked two girls from a green bench and waded into the hot soup.""Tight faced, the men seemed interested only in drinking and gaming, while Suzy and Miss Curdy, guzzling hard, grew uglier.""His life was a free coarse thing, but he detested nastiness and ugliness.""Suzy could cook.
McKay merits your time.
Home to Harlem is a quick read with some compelling narratives.
Of course, some interesting questions are raised as well.
To those ends, there were parts that were tough to get through.
I think McKay is being brutally honest here and this sincerity will contribute to that sinking feeling you'll get in your stomach when you realize that the Harlem Renaissance wasn't all jazz, gin, and poetry.
The temper of the times and the conditions of the space are both brilliantly illustrated.
I'm sure this is something I'll get over/figure out when I read this again soon!
Claude McKay I'm proud to say is a Jamaican writer of the Harlem Renaissance. Home to Harlem follows Jake from the US to London then back to Harlem.
It was somewhat entertaining, but that's because I'll read anything, not because I actually enjoyed it. It wasn't my kind of book, I must admit. The conclusion had not real closure, which bothered me. Although I loved the way people were depicted in a no-holds-barred fashion, and the degree to which the disturbing realism of the mental images he created had. But still, overall, the book left more to be desired, as most of the novel was very dry. I felt that I had to force myself to continue. Not out of disgust, but out of sheer boredom.
This book was an easy read. It was reviewed harshly in its time. I would compare it to the way many African American critics view Tyler Perry's work as stereotypical and reductive to the progress of African American entertainment. If you would like to feel a part of Harlem in the early 1900s, you will enjoy this book. I would suggest researching the author as well as reading the book. Claude McKay led a very interesting life.
I really enjoyed this book. It really transported me back to Harlem in the 1920s. Through the lives of young unskilled African-Americans living and working in Harlem.The clothes, the food, entertainment and while sporadic; the political views.All in all a great quick read, no surprise that this book was a best seller in its time.
the true predecessor to kerouac.
Oh, he was infinitely disgusted with himself to think that he had just been moved by the same savage emotions as those vile, vicious, villainous white men who, like hyenas and rattlers, had fought, murdered, and clawed the entrails out of black men over the common, commercial flesh of women..." (328).
Excerpts like the above represent McKay's ability to capture the sentiments of African-Americans living in the United States and other groups that face discrimination.
McKay captures the cynicism, hope, and despair of the people of color during the Harlem Renaissance.
It's more about emotions and life through the stories of the dynamic characters in the plot: Jake, Zeddy, Ray, Billy.
Claude McKay is, in my mind at least, a poet first and foremost.
It's worth checking out if you are a big fan of McKay, but I would recommend his sonnets, as it seems his powers are more fit for brief, intense lyrical modes.On that, this edition by the Northeastern University Press is atrocious, with words randomly spaced for no describable reason, and over all it seems very little work was put into distributing what is a fairly interesting novel.
W.E.B. Dubois said stuffily that the book made him feel dirty after reading it.
So much the better for the book!
Ray is the self-taught philosopher who feels helpless to exert himself in a prejudiced world.
Returning after a night out to their filthy bunk provided by the railway, Ray cannot sleep because of the bed bugs.
"Ray looked up at Jake, stretched at full length on his side, his cheek in his right hand, sleeping peacefully, like a tired boy after hard playing, so happy and sweet and handsome." McKay apparently slept with both men and women.
Colorful slice of life in Harlem between the wars, but the exploitative descriptions of women angered and upset me. I know he was a key writer of the Harlem Renaissance, so I would like to read other work by Claude McKay. Product of his times? His contemporary Langston Hughes didn't write so negatively about women. Interesting twist at the end where we find out more about the main character Jake's experience as a soldier in a segregated unit in France during WWI.
Language is the puddle of this book. The colloquial jargon used in his dialogue juxtaposes McKays’ exact, crisp, and pensive prose. The shocking language and gender relationships—the way he paints Harlem in this era, making it tangible with every word he places on the page kept me reading. Shocking phrases that make you cringe but understand the subverted minds of a people living in a white America. Read it.
I've actually enjoyed this book more than I think I would. The characters are very well fleshed out and interesting. While the author's intention to criticize Harlem's debauchery is more than apparent, he still managed to invoke sympathy and appreciation for the bygone movement.
Very early mention of queer presence in Harlem during this era but the book is light on story and character development.
Raw and vivid and fantastic.
I still can't remember how I started reading this strange book
Really enjoyed this book
I found it slow-going and almost absent a real plot -- what plot there was seemed entirely incidental to the capturing of a slice of glorious Black life (in opposition to whiteness and respectability and death).
Oh 'blues,' 'blues,' 'blues.' Black-framed white grinning.
(146) And the last quote just because it's just what I'm working onThey had walked down Madison Avenue, turned on One Hundred and Thirtieth Street, passing the solid grey-grim mass of the whites' Presbyterian church, and were under the timidly whispering trees of the decorously silent and distinguished Block Beautiful ....
McKay was a little hard for me to get through -- the plot is somewhat simplistic (if you don't delve into the African-American experience in the Harlem Renaissance) -- Jake ends up going overseas during WWI, deserts, then after a race riot over seas decides to return to Harlem.
The Pros: -- This provides a very unique intersection to the Harlem Renaissance (including how McKay weaves WWI into part of the story, which is somewhat different from what other authors of the 1920s were doing).
-- Of course, you get a "graphic" view of African-American life living in Harlem from characters (and an author) with firsthand knowledge.
HOME TO HARLEM. (1928). Claude McKay. **. This was one of the novels collected in The Library of America’s “Harlem Renaissance” collection. It was a best seller in the late 1920s and was reprinted several times over the years. It is a picaresque novel featuring Jake, a World War I veteran, who actually deserted his outfit in France to make his way to England and then to the U.S. Jake is kind of a run-of-the mill guy with no special talents for anything much other than hooking up with a variety o
It is a picaresque novel featuring Jake, a World War I veteran, who actually deserted his outfit in France to make his way to England and then to the U.S. Jake is kind of a run-of-the mill guy with no special talents for anything much other than hooking up with a variety of black women who are willing to support him.
The novel follows his adventures in Harlem, along with his friend Zeddy and their on-again-off-again girlfriends, Susy and Rose.
They spend most of their time drinking and gambling and running around on their lady-friends.

A troublesome book from the Harlem Renaissance which was controversial in its time.
The story deals with a man who leaves the army during WWI because black soldiers were so rarely employed in combat.
He figures he can work as a stevedore without being in the military and so leaves and goes back to Harlem.
His closest friend is Ray, an educated black man, who fascinates him because he reads books and uses standard English.
From a historical point of view they both provide a window into the fascination with the primitive in Harlem during the 1920s by both black and white writers.
McKay opens a (somewhat nostalgic) window on life in Harlem just after World War I, with a fine focus on the everyday lives of his characters.
I particularly appreciated McKay's focus on work and labor issues, and how racism touched nearly all aspects of life both overseas and in the US (the scope is truly international, in other words).
While the novel begins somewhat episodically (and ends in a similar way), the middle section seems more focused and serious with the introduction of protagonist Jake's friend Ray, a Haitian railroad worker (and Claude McKay stand-in) with serious educational and literary goals.
This was a great peak into 1920’s Harlem.
I loved the exploration of the Harlem clubs and cabarets, as well as the depiction of working on a passenger train during this time period.
While there are a lot of song lyrics in the novel, I really didn’t recognize any, yet had a great soundtrack going on in my head while reading this.
The style this novel was written in really reminded me of Nora Neale Hurston’s, “Their Eyes Where Watching God,” as the narrator speaks perfect English and the characters all of their own dialect.
This was easier to read than “Their Eyes .
Black leaders of the period decried this work because they felt it presented African American males in a negative light.
I read the author's comments and understand that he was depicting a certain type of man, a W.W. I vet who returned home to lead the dissolute life of a man kept by women.
McKay presented a type of man, uneducated, no ambition, a rather lazy hedonist but perhaps indicative of some of the fellow he met during that post-war period.
Though Home to Harlem is not a great book it is one of the most powerful works of the Harlem Renaissance and certainly worth a read.
