https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/823812.The_Story_of_My_Life
I came to this book with the idea Clarence Darrow charged into the darkness with Commander Spock at his left shoulder; the Power of the Enlightenment in his right hand; and Darwin’s bulldog at his side. His autobiography made him seem much more human than that. He picked a side of history and fought for it vigorously, but his barbs at those on the other side were fairly gentle. I am proud to be a member of his profession.
Darrow is a famous legal figure and I was primarily familiar with him because of his defense of John Scopes in the "Scopes Monkey Trial." I was pretty disappointed in the book, but I did learn a lot about Darrow.I had no idea how many major cases Darrow had been a part of!
Darrow believed fully that every life was worth defending and he was a staunch opponent of the death penalty, which is why he took on many cases where the defendant was clearly guilty.
Darrow reflects on a life devoted to public service and to defense of civil liberties, and to the rights of the unpopular and indigent to a fair trial.
He comments at length on crime and punishment, and his proposals are as germane today as they were 60 years ago.
The Haywood trial is a useful paradigm for Darrow's activities.
Two leaders of the coal mining union, William Haywood and Charles Moyer, were accused of masterminding the killing.
Darrow was constantly defending victims of governmental abuse of power.
Darrow believed that to inspire behavioral change society needs to remove the cause of the anti-social behavior.
The only major differences in our opinions are related to the extremes he takes some of his positions and our relative levels of pessimism/optimism.
He was a caring, compassionate man, and I think that his frustrations with humanity led to his extreme pessimism.
Tea partiers have taken over the GOP and have their minions believing that it's government and secularism that is the root of all evil, while the Democrats are caught in the complexities of the issues and appear disorganized and confused.
As soon as the statement "government of the people, by the people, and for the people" rings true, America will be back on the right track.
The most significant takeaway for me after reading this book is the way Darrow juxtaposes the manner in which a physician treats an ill person by examining the cause of their illness with the way that the justice system looks only at the manifestation of these causes and "treats" the criminal based on their crime and completely disregards the reasons that they committed it.This book is important in many ways.
Aside from being the perspective of one of the most important criminal lawyers in history, it offers unique insights on religion, society, war and the increase of State violence during times of conflict, science and justice.
Ever since seventh grade, Clarence Darrow has been THE idol in my life; I aspire to be like him, and I respect him greatly.
Darrow is able to talk about himself in a manner that is neither flattering himself nor degrading to him.
He also manages to put a lot of his beliefs within the context of the cases he worked on throughout his life, as well as talk about human nature.
It was never boring, and I believe that Clarence Darrow is one of the better authors whose works I have encountered throughout my life.
From the ABA's 30 books every lawyer should read: Dees is co-founder and chief trial attorney at the Southern Poverty Law Center in Montgomery, Ala. He and his civil rights group have been monitoring hate groups and extremist organizations for decades.“I was already a lawyer running a very successful book publishing company when I read this book. It changed my life. I sold my company and began a civil rights law practice that ultimately became the Southern Poverty Law Center.”
It was slow but really interesting. Darrow has a few basic beliefs he keeps returning to: 1) life is just a matter of coincidence. Any of us could be a leader or criminal, rich or poor, just depending on where and to whom we were born; 2) the death penalty is wrong because of #1 - everything is just coincidence; and 3) prohibition of alcohol was the stupidest law ever made in the US.
A bit too much "This I believe" for my tastes. Would have preferred more focus on details of the cases. But still a good read.
As far as autobiographies go, this one was extremely entertaining.
Clarence Darrow in his own words, mostly. I think he was an exceptional man.
One of my favorite books, one of my favorite people
From commercial to employment to criminal lawyer! Very inspiring person and story.
The story of a liberal hero, pro labor and anti-death penalty.A pleasant surprise in "The Story of My Life" was the history and analysis of the 18th Amendment (Prohibition).
It's something of a ramble on.The Leopold and Loeb trial.
This case was a milestone in the anti death penalty war.
I wanted to know how they got caught.
I didn't want to read about what nice guys they were.
The Scopes Monkey Trial.
This was case also treated superficially.Most of the book was labor vs management.
In fairness, Clarence Darrow wrote his story w/o the benefit of hindsight; therefore the curious disproportionality.
