https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/63213.The_Dunwich_Horror_and_Others
It includes: "In the Vault," Pickman's Model," "The Rats in the Walls," "The Music of Erich Zann," "The Haunter of the Dark," "The Dunwich Horror," and "The Thing on the Doorstep," most of which are top-tier Lovecraft, imo, ones I hadn't read in 20 years or so until now.
"Pickman's Model" was as effective (and horrifying) as ever, but "The Thing on the Doorstep," which closes the collection, especially creeped me out this time around, as it involves one of my biggest fears: the loss of one's own mind/loss of control.
My appreciation for "Erich Zann" grew greatly as well, and is now one of my all-time favorite Lovecraft stories.
4.5 stars. Outstanding collection of H.P Lovecraft stories. The Dunwich Horror is an amazing story that reads as well today as when it was first written. Lovecraft was a unique talent and his stories are just a ton of fun.
The Rats in the Walls has always been my personal favorite.
I'll be coming back to this book.
I gave the book five stars mostly because of its revelatory impact on me and my personality, even though if I had discovered Lovecraft for the first time today, especially being familiar now with writers like Clark Ashton Smith, a contemporary of Lovecraft's who was admittedly a much better stylist; Fritz Leiber, who writes about real people with real emotions in his horror stories; Thomas Ligotti, whose sense of alienation and misanthropy in the face of an uncaring cosmos is almost unparalleled; William Hope Hodgson, who journeyed to unfathomed depths of time and space and brought back something too horrible to contemplate a good thirty years before Lovecraft did, I might have knocked the rating down by one star.But really, none of those authors were even remotely in my sights at the time, and reading these stories today, I believe most of them still stand up very well.
As Howard wanted, many have tried over the years to expound on his Cthulhu Mythos; few even came close. I believe he named man's strongest emotion as Fear, with the greatest Fear being that of the unknown.Did you ever overcome your own fear enough to actually Look under your bed when you just Knew Some Unknown Thing was there?Nah, neither have I.
Listening as I work on computer projects https://youtu.be/7NydhWxfDeU?list=PLG... I'm becoming addicted to HP Lovecraft stories.

Like a lot of other mopey adolescents, I devoured H.P. Lovecraft when I was in high school; I owned several collections of his short stories and novellas.
This someone is usually on the brink of madness by the end of his tale.
The man had an incredible imagination; it's too bad his stories, when read back to back in a collection, are so annoyingly repetitive.
I'm going to wait a bit before tackling Lovecraft's masterpiece, At the Mountains of Madness.
love this book! it genuinely gave me the creeps and was interesting to read. I would highly recommend it. the story sucked me in and I loved the finale ending.

Czailiście się na jakąś książkę bardzo długo, a potem byliście źli, że dopiero teraz się za nią wzięliście? Ja teraz mam dokładnie takie myśli. Dlaczego tak długo zwlekałam? Z drugiej strony chciałabym wymazać sobie pamięć i zacząć od nowa. To jest po prostu perfekcyjne.Nawet nie jestem w stanie wybrać kilku najlepszych opowiadań. No bo co, wszystkie tytuły mam wypisać?Must read dla wszystkich fanów grozy i horroru.Lovecraft jest oficjalnie autorem mojego życia. Życzę wam wszystkim, żebyście znaleźli książkę dla was idealną, bo to niesamowite uczucie, którego nie jestem w stanie opisać.
I wasn't sure if his (and others) opinion would color my enjoyment of this book, but I have to say, despite the similarity in subject matter these stories all have, some of these are just as thrilling as I remember, and Lovecraft's prose style isn't nearly as turgid as I'd remembered.
They're formulaic, and the racism and xenophobia is hard to swallow, but if you're looking for exciting, and gruesome tales of cosmic horror, Lovecraft's still the best, and this is about as good a collection as you can expect to find.
Świetne tłumaczenie. Pomogło tam, gdzie nie miałam już siły walczyć z oryginałem.
This is a collection of short stories written by H.P. Lovecraft.
I felt the tension that the characters were feeling as they are introduced into a new world that defies explanation.
As I went from story to story I recognized his influence in some of my favorite forms of entertainment like Buffy the Vampire Slayer and this just added to my enjoyment.A rating of four stars for a collection of short stories is probably the highest praise I can give.
I feel like a collection will contain an even number of stories I enjoy and ones I do not.
¿Quién o qué es la criatura que aterroriza a la población Dunwich ?Wilbur Whateley, con características corporales muy extrañas e hijo de una mujer desfigurada crea un misterio en la comunidad sobre su verdadera personalidad.
Además el viejo Whateley tiene un fuerte vínculo con las artes oscuras y esotéricas y no duda en enseñar estos conocimientos a su nieto.En esta obra descubriremos que es lo que oculta la familia Whateley en su morada ¿A qué se refiere el Viejo Whateley con que Wilbur nombraría a su padre en Sentinel Hiil?
You know, instinctively, what is going to happen, but when it does - or more so, they way he writes it - you can't help but get goosebumps and feel chilled.
Take, for example, the first story I ever read by Lovecraft, "The Whisperer in Darkness".Once Akeley sends his letter to Wilmarth that all is well, his ravings being a misunderstanding, you know something is up.
Lovecraft expects the reader to question, to think that maybe something happened to Akeley, and it's the prospect of learning about this "something" that keeps us reading.
So perhaps thinking these stories were so dangerous that they were pornographic might not be so far fetched.
Still it was the fact that these stories took chance and went into the darker recesses of the human mechanism of fear that made these tales of unsettling horror into classics.
Lovecraft may have been a racist (a fact that comes out much more clearly in his letters than his fiction) but perhaps that was in part why he was gifted at writing about and provoking xenophobic horror.
it is festering xenophobia that breeds racism, and Lovecraft's fictions are a tribute to the fear and paranoia of the unexplained and unknown.
What struck me most in re-reading this volume is the way that Arkham, Innsmouth, and environs are finally fleshing out - each story providing a single glimpse of a remarkably terrifying place.
If you are looking for a dark canvas painted with only the vaguest possibilities of the terrors that have slept on Earth since before mankind, then read on.There were no weak stories in this edition.
I picked up the T.S. Joshi version from Arkham House published in mid-1980's, and I really like the retention of Lovecraft's spelling and word usage.
Overall, a very enjoyable read filled with dark terror, masterful storytelling, and a wonderful sense of what sleeps below.
For me, this is the ultimate measure of quality in horror writing.
No one before or since has matched the atmospherics that Lovecraft employs in this collection of his short stories.
Whereas more recent decades seem to confuse horror with violence and gore, Lovecraft had the good sense to acknowledge that the unknown is infinitely more terrifying than the known.
If your only familiarity with the genre is Stephen King and similar writers, you have no idea what Lovecraft is like.
Bring your dictionary with you--you'll need it!
In France, he is studied in universities and considered better than Poe, and rightly so.
Some of Lovecraftt's best stuff is in this volume Myabe I shouldn't give him 5 stars but I love his stories. If you have a bit to spend the simplest way to get a farily coplete selection of his works, is to stick with the Arkham House copies. There are a gazilion different collection you can spend your money on but if you get the Arkham, you shouldn't repeat material. I make no claim this is great literature, but at the same time I tend to think he is under rated.Enjoy!
I can certainly see why H P Lovecraft has a cult following as his style of writing is certainly distinctive as well as being engaging from the start. This selection of short stories was fun to read, especially as I don’t often read horror these days, but I was a little bored by the repetitive nature of the stories which is why this only got a 3 star rating. He was clearly a man obsessed with dark occult books such as The Necronomicon.
I read the story, not this whole collection. It was dry and so masculine (what is that with Poe and Lovecraft ?) that I can't say I was on the edge of my seat. But it's influence on so much horror and it's metaphysical weirdness are massive. Powerful, if boring in parts. The 1970 AIP movie sure is different. There's no Sandra Dee character in the story ...
Även om han blir lite väl mångordig och detaljerad emellanåt byggs stämningen upp gradvis för att sedan sluta med en kuslig twist.
Jak zwykle słów kilka na temat książki znajdziecie na moim blogu. Serdecznie zapraszam :)http://magicznyswiatksiazki.pl/zgroza...
Read my reviews of any Lovecraft book; a racist and anglophile, but good and scary none-the-less!
I guess I hadn't reviewed this volume, but it's a fine collection of some of H.P.'s best. Still a joy to revisit...
One of my favorite books by Lovecraft. I've read and re-read this book because I like it so much, specially The Dunwich Horror.
if you like a lot of insinuation that something is creepy,and may even become scary in the future
I loved it, it is one of several Arkham house Hardcover i have bought
