https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/792161.War_Horse
It formed the basis of both an award winning play (2007) and an acclaimed film adaptation (2011) by Steven Spielberg.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز ششم ماه نوامبر سال 2013 میلادیعنوان: اسب جنگی؛ نویسنده: مایکل مورپرگو؛ مترجم: پروین علی پور؛ تهران، افق، چاپ دوم 1392؛ ئر 189 ص؛ موضوع: داستانهای نوجوانان از نویسندگان انگلیسی - سده 20 ماسنیون اسپیلبرگ از این داستان فیلمی دیدنی ساخته و پرداخته است.
جنگ جهانگیر نخست آغاز میشود، و پدر مزرعه دار، به دلیل بدهی، و بی خبر از پسرش، جویی را به سروان نیکلاس، افسر مهربان سواره نظام، که از جنگ دل خوشی ندارد، میفروشد.
دو سرباز یکی انگلیسی، و دیگری آلمانی، زیر آتش دشمن، برای نجات جان «جویی»، جان خویش را به خطر می‌اندازند.
“I can hate you more, but I'll never love you less.”  This book is so beautiful in many ways. I wanted to weep all day after I finished. War Horse is very unique because it's told by Joey, a horse being thrusted into the war on the Western Front. The story is innocent, yet it's so sensational and full of angst from the characters. I felt attached to the story from the first chapter and couldn't peel my eyes off then. Morpugo created such a striking story about the war with a horse and a boy try
This book is so beautiful in many ways.
The story is innocent, yet it's so sensational and full of angst from the characters.
I felt attached to the story from the first chapter and couldn't peel my eyes off then.
Morpugo created such a striking story about the war with a horse and a boy trying to find each other.
I could perceive about everything through this book and lost a lot of tears by reading only.
“They fight a war and they don't know what for.
I can read this book and watch the movie without getting bored.
The time is World War One. After bonding with thirteen-year-old Albert at the family farm, Joey is sold to the Army by Albert’s struggling dad.
Joey bonds with another horse in his tour of duty, as a sort of big brother.
In addition, Morpurgo offers commentary on war and a look at the horrors entailed in that War To End All Wars.
War Horse is a fast, enjoyable, emotion-rich read, even for an old oater like me.
I read this in anticipation of the film being released in December 2011.
It is a great film that does justice to a great book.
If somebody told me that book written in horse's POV would be this emotional, I wouldn't have believed it.From page one, I knew that this wasn't going to be happy and light read (even in chapter 1 so much happened).
It dealt with war, and how unfair and stupid it is.
And I felt like this book was so much longer than it actually was.
I guess that is because so much happened in it.
But surprisingly, even though it was short, not one part of this book felt rushed (at least to me).Now off to see the movie.
This book is aimed at the 9-12 year old market(but can be enjoyed by readers of any age) and the author really knows how to tell a story and how to educate his reader while doing so.
I found the war scenes appropriate for the age group this book was aimed at and yet enough to make the reader feel the horrors of war.I loved the way Joey the horse seemed to give hope to the men on the battlefield and while war was all around them the horses gave the soldiers a sense of calm and hope.I bought this book for my ten year old and as the film War Horse is now showing in the cinema I wanted to read the book before seeing the movie and I really enjoyed this book.
War Horse is one of the best-known children’s novels by Michael Morpurgo.
And it is an enormously poignant little book.As the title suggests, it is the odyssey of a horse, Joey, brought from Devon across the English Channel and into France and the hell of the Great War, both through the English and the German trenches.
The story is narrated in simple language (in, say, the tradition of Ernest Hemingway) from the unusual perspective of the horse.
I'm clearly the only person in the world who doesn't like, doesn't get, this book.The horse is a Gary Stu (See here if you don't know what one of those is http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mary_Sue) - he knows everything, from what guns and cannons are, to what wire is and what it can do, the terms for everythng in his world, including politics and the type of bit in his mouth.I'm used to anthropomorphic animals, and have been since I was born--but Joey should be dressed up in a waistcoat and walking on his hind legs because he has the human intelligence of one of the pigs from Animal Farm or Benjamin Bunny.When you compare this style of "horse point of view" with Black Beauty or something well done like Watership Down, you can see the failings.
Drawing caricatures for the public requires a certain amount of upbeat interaction, so it might not have been a good time to cry over Joey the War Horse.
I hope my Eyes weren’t all puffy.Joey is a special horse.
But the whole time he is in the war he longs for the day he can go home to his boy, Albert.
Joey was sold to the war effort against Albert’s wishes by his father and Albert vows to join up when he’s old enough and bring his horse back against all odds.
Written from the POV of a horse, this book was absolutely breathtaking.
Since so many books are about the Second World War I was very intrigued about a book that pictured the First one!The main part is of course Joey and how he survived during the war, how he helped and how human beings actually helped him.
But then there was also Joey's particular strong bound to some of them like first and foremost Albert.
Every character who was mentioned in the book was in its own way important and showed a particular view on life and the war.
Every single character actually loved and appreciated the horses, everyone cared!
Such a touching hero's tale and such a daring point of view for its audience. I am not an animal person (to the chagrin of my family members) and the beginning chapters of this book just ripped my heart out of my chest and stomped on it. For Joey to be a survivor and still have such love in his soul is so moving.
And it is all written from the persective of Joey, the titular horse.Joey was sold to a farm when young.
One day, Joey is sold to the Army for the war and taken away from Albert.During the war, Joey meets another war horse as well as a number of people - soldiers of all ranks, civilians from different walks of life, ...
The writing is simple and yet intricately detailed, every landscape comes to life and the people as well as animals are wonderfully portrayed with the appropriate layers to their personality traits.This is also a Folio Society edition, meaning it is an illustrated version of the book.
Whenever someone asked me what was my earliest childhood book memory it went back to little me clutching and reading Black Beauty on the living room floor.
Reading War Horse gave me the same childhood innocence and affection — deeply caring over another horse, Joey (another unforgettable horse of literature for me was Orwell's Boxer in Animal Farm), as he ventured in a world at war, of violence and cruelty, and find kindness, camaraderie, and family.
Lastly, it's impossible to refute animals' impact, I believe, just like nature have, on our little human lives.My copy is a Folio Society Edition where the stunning illustrations made reading War Horse a personal and engaging experience:["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Morpurgo's War Horse presents an evocative, poignant and brilliant anti-war message, whilst also showing that historically, the so called Great War (WWI) was also not the fault of any one country, that it was a lethal and dangerous horror for which ALL of Europe, but especially the respective governments, the higher ups, from ranking army officers to the various European heads of state should blamed, should be held equally accountable.
Joey, the war horse, tells about his adventures during World War 1 and the special bond he has with a young boy named Albert.
I loved it!
(Gerard's review)War Horse is a touching book that kept my interest all through.
Parts were very sad but I loved the ending!
Joey, the horse, tells his story about living on a farm with a boy named Albert and then being sold to the army because Albert's dad needed money to save his farm.
The horse goes through a lot but Albert never gives up looking for him.
(Karen's review)
Just like humans, Joey and the other horses felt and experienced raw emotions throughout the war.
For a majority of this war, the people didn’t even know what they were fighting for.
I believe this is the aspect which makes this book so emotional because the deepness of affection between characters in untainted ways is tangible.
It’s so tangible, in fact, that several characters willingly faced their fears in order to sacrifice for one another.
It’s a short read, but is packed full of virtue, respectful characters, and honorable missions--both by horse and man.
I read this with my 12 year old son. Heartwarming stuff! There may have been a few tears...
The narrative style is sufficiently engaging that it has great potential for reading at a single sitting.Making Joey, the (war) horse, the narrator was a brilliant move on Michael Morpurgo's part, since it simultaneously encourages children to think about the effect of their actions on others (for who could not empathise with Joey?) and helps to show that neither humanity - nor not a lack of it - observes geographical or political borders.Children will learn a lot about the First World War and readers young and old will appreciate the various roles of the horse in warfare on both sides.

با نگاه این اسب جنگ رو خوندم، کشته‌ها رو دیدم و همراه جویی از مرگ‌شون غم سنگینی رو حس کردم.دوست شدن با جویی برای من فقط چند صفحه طول کشید؛ خیلی زود باهاش ارتباط برقرار کردم، با شادی‌ش آروم شدم و با سختی‌هاش نگران.
عجیبه اگه بگم با اینکه راوی یه اسب بود، همراه کتاب اشک ریختم؟ همراه شدن با جویی آسونه، اونقدر آسون و قشنگه که تمام مدت یه اسب رو در کنار خودم تصور می‌کردم.
جویی فقط میدید، احساس می‌کرد، و برای ما تعریف می‌کرد.میدونم لزومی نداره مطمئن باشم با این کتاب افکار یه اسب رو کامل و درست خوندم.
I am currently studying Graphic Design and there happens to be a project which requires illustrating this book and so naturally I had to read it in order to know how to illustrate it, and my goodness I am so happy I did choose to pick this up!!This is a story which is told from the point of view of a Horse named Joey.
I have to say it's just beautifully paced and the story never felt rushed or overdone.On the whole, this is a beautifully thought-provoking story which deals with some very real themes in a way that enables younger readers to approach and understand the topics.
I love this book! I read it about a month ago and it melted my heart. The book takes place during World War I and is from the view of Horses who are put in battle. The main horse was taken from his friend who is a farm boy. The book is sad and I loved it when the Horse was being taken care of by one of the army men. This is a short book and I would highly recommend it. 4.5/5 stars for this book. Thank you Michael Morpurgo for writing this book. :)
It forces the reader to face complex issues like the passing away of tradition and how war used to be fought.
How we now see war--as a bloody, heartless machine--is just beginning to emerge.
We have the beginnings of tanks and machine guns, both of which are super destructive during this war.
Sorry to give you guys a history lesson, but I think this book so eloquently talks about these issues.
This book does a good job of looking at the humanity of both sides.
Both sides see the tragedy and ugly parts of the war.
Morpurgo at his best - not to be missed! (And so much better than the Hollywood film).
Very interesting book...and quite touching, in a clean and non-cloying way.I am familiar with the play, so I knew the basic plot line.
the play is SO powerful - and so theatrically charged with the larger-than-life stage puppets who play the horses - that the book seemed somewhat small to me.
It's really a small story - even though it's played against the world stage during intense and climatic moments.It was a surprise to find the book is written in the first person - by the horse!
Because it is completely believable and the way Joey (the war horse) reacts to people and other horses gives him a well-defined and completely rounded character.
War Horse is the first book I had to read for my new teaching job and I can only describe it as my students did: "It's Black Beauty, but in World War One!"As with Black Beauty, War Horse is set from the perspective of a horse and the reader witnesses all events from this horse's perspective.
This master, a young teenager by the name of Albert, is devastated when Joey is sold and sent to help the war effort and the rest of the book's plot really follows Joey.
This is a war novel to match The Book Thief for simple elegance and one I highly recommend reading for the way in which Morpurgo chronicles the effects of war on every living thing.
I thought the movie was just OK since Hollywood rarely does horses well.
The incessant snorting about drove me crazy, so when I ran across this audio book at the library, I thought I'd see if the book was better.
It was & it turns out the movie was fairly faithful to the book, so bring plenty of tissues.
It reminds me a lot of "Black Beauty" since it is told from the horse's point of view.
Yes, it's a bit sappy at times, but not terribly often & gives a great view of WWI.
Better yet, it's short, so there is no excuse not to read this.
4-4.5 stars.Apparently I never got around to a review for this. I remember it as a beautifully told story from the point of view of a horse, similarly to Black Beauty, who gets pulled into military service during WWI. It really shows how ghastly the Great War was, and the animal's connection to his riders and his original owner broke my heart. The film was well done and I still want to see the stage play.
This was a short read, but a beautiful story. I especially liked the fact that it was from the view of the horse. His descriptions of how he felt were done very well. I felt his pain and joy. Great book, but I loved the movie more.
This was my Top Book of 2012 out of over 100 books . This was really fab book it is wonderful book about WWI that is not run of mill WWI book. The only puzzling thing for me was how the horse could understand more than one language
این آغاز قصهاس، آلبرت و جویی بهترین دوستای هم هستن. یه انسان و یه اسب...آلبرت، جویی رو بزرگ میکنه، بهش محبت میکنه و خیلی دوستش داره... ولی دست روزگار جویی و آلبرت رو از هم جدا میکنه و جویی به اجبار همراه سواره نظام انگلیس به جنگ فرستاده میشه...این روایته جنگ جهانی اوله از زبان یک اسب. بدون قضاوت انسانی...تو روایت جویی جایی برای مرزهای ساختهی انسان وجود نداره... تفاوتی نیست بین انسانهایی که فقط لباس متفاوتی میپوشن و زبان مختلفی دارن... They fight a war and they don’t know what for. Isn’t that cra
یه انسان و یه اسب...آلبرت، جویی رو بزرگ می‌کنه، بهش محبت می‌کنه و خیلی دوستش داره...
ولی دست روزگار جویی و آلبرت رو از هم جدا می‌کنه و جویی به اجبار همراه سواره نظام انگلیس به جنگ فرستاده میشه...این روایته جنگ جهانی اوله از زبان یک اسب.
مگه اینکه قرار باشه یه نگاه دیگه از جنگ به ما بده...یکی از چیزایی که من خیلی در مورد این کتاب دوست داشتم و از نویسنده ممنونم به خاطرش و باعث میشه کتاب برام خیلی واقعی جلوه کنه اینه که جویی روایت انسان گونه نداره...
منظورم اینه که جویی می‌شنوه، می‌بینه و روایت می‌کنه، ولی درکش، درک یه انسان نیست...
„Боен кон“ е написана за по-малките читатели, но със сигурност би трогнала хора на всякаква възраст!Няма как да не започна с това, че книгата е написана през погледа на Джоуи – млад кон, който като малък бива разделен от майка си и продаден на земевладелец.Той бързо свиква с Албърт – синът на фермера, който го обсибва с цялата си обич. За жалост дните им заедно не продължават дълго, тъй като по това време назрява Първата световна война и те биват разделени от армията, които взимат Джоуи с тях.Цялото ревю: https://aboyofpaperandink.wordpress.c...
