https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17348308-my-favorite-mistake
DNF!!!!This book is just not for me at all!!I can't take it anymore!!
I feel like this book is wasting my time.
I can't seem get into it because I can't stand the main character Taylor.
I couldn't connect with her at all.
She is such a rude bitch for no reason.
How can you be mean and hate someone you just met?!?
Just Psycho!!!
I don't understand how she has any friends with her attitude and snarky comments.
I couldn't do it!!!.
I'm not going to waste anymore of my time reading this book.
On to the next book.
for my love of Hunter...10++++++ stars!!  When Hunter shows up at her doorstep, claiming he’s her new roommate, & to share one room with him since the other room was occupied with her two girl roommate, Taylor was not happy. They made a deal. Hate him, Love him, or have sex with him. Either of the three, which she needs to prove or do with him will make him leave."I had to get Hunter out of my life. I wanted him. I wanted him to kiss me and touch my face and put his fingers in my hair. I wa
for my love of Hunter...10++++++ stars!!
Maybe the only holdback with this book is it take a lot of time before they became together.
Then there a lot of steamy sexy sex & a lot of funny sex talks.I recommend this book coz i love it, and Hunter is my favorite mistake!
I don’t like how your hair smells, and how I can’t stop thinking about waking up and seeing your face.
I don’t like how good you were with my family, especially Harper, and how I wanted to see you with them again, but not just as a guest.
DNF at 3% (edited to add some quotes from later in the book)I just can't do it. I can't handle another 'strong woman' who is actually a bitch and abusive. I don't accept this behavior in men, I won't accept it in women.The book starts by saying that the MC (Taylor) hits Hunter the first time she meets him... The first time I met Hunter Zaccadelli, I punched him in the face. Granted, he completely and totally deserved it. He also asked for it, in so many ways. I decided right then and there that
I don't accept this behavior in men, I won't accept it in women.The book starts by saying that the MC (Taylor) hits Hunter the first time she meets him...
I decided right then and there that when I saw what precipitated the punch in the face would be the thing that determined if I kept reading.Taylor and 2 friends are moving into their dorm - which is coed.
If it's not her way, then she's liable to freak out - and you should just get out of her path.She calls her sister to talk it through, tells her that she punched Hunter.
I don’t think she gave him a single reason to become so obsessed with her, unless he’s a masochist.The juvenile attitudes and actions just kept snowballing until I started rolling my eyes at most of the antics that were probably meant to be quirky and sweet.
If I hadn’t disliked Taylor so much (I did get a bit ranty there, huh?), I would have liked this book so much more, and could have taken it for the fun, young adult novel that it is.
The things that I loved about this book just might be the very things that you hate!
The issues gave birth to drama and it was everywhere.
It was a nice little HEA, but with so much drama, angst and build up, the ending needed to be huge!!!
The book gave me so much, but I still can't help but be a little disappointed with how it ended.
Okay, so this book wasn't perfect, but it was a tension filled drama with characters that will piss you off, but at the same time cause you to feel, to want, to need!
3.5 STARS! Two secrets. One bet. Who will break first? I really liked My Favourite Mistake! It was a great YA/NA novel with characters i could relate to.  Taylor Caldwell can't decide if she wants to kiss her new college roommate or punch him.On the one hand, Hunter Zaccadelli is a handsome blue-eyed bundle of charm. On the other, he's a tattooed, guitar-playing bad boy. Maybe that's why Taylor's afraid of falling in love with him, or anyone else. She doesn't want to get burned, so she needs hi
Taylor Caldwell can't decide if she wants to kiss her new college roommate or punch him.On the one hand, Hunter Zaccadelli is a handsome blue-eyed bundle of charm.
Determined not to be kicked out of her life without a fight, Hunter proposes a bet: if she can convince him she either truly loves or hates him, he'll leave the apartment;and leave her alone.But when the man behind Taylor's fear of giving up her heart resurfaces, she has to decide: trust Hunter with her greatest secret, or do everything in her power to win that bet and drive him away forever.
I loved when Hunter played his guitar to Taylor and wrote songs about her.
I mean Taylor and hunter don't even kiss until, like, 60% through the book.
4.25-4.5 Stars I hated him. I hated how he got under my skin. I hated how, for a second, I thought about pushing him up against the library and making out with him. The blurb for this book included the following description for our Hero: “Tattooed, guitar-playing bundle of bad boy.” Oh yea. With those seven words, I was immediately sold. Shocker, I know (lol). So as soon as this book came out, I was all over it.  The first time I met Hunter Zaccadelli, I punched him in the face. Above is the fir
The first time I met Hunter Zaccadelli, I punched him in the face.
As soon as Taylor met Hunter, you knew sparks were just going to fly between the two and did they ever.
It didn’t matter that her other two roommates were women, having the third be a man, especially as appealing as Hunter, was out of the question.
It’s safe to say, Hunter has never met a girl like Taylor.
Since "doing him" was out of the question, Taylor must outright convince him that she either loves him or hates him.
My Review This book was not what I expected. The premise of My Favorite Mistake promises a refreshing New Adult contemporary romance, a read that I found myself anticipating. Sadly, I couldn't even make myself finish reading the whole thing. There are a number of emotions associated with this read for me: anger, disappointment, but ultimately, exhaustion, just to name a few. I got nothing out of reading this, and while I could very well rage about the poor characterization, lack of plot, and en
Mainly because she has a problem, she lashes out when things don't go her way, and instead of people telling her to get her act together, they make stupid freaking allowances.Sorry, Mary, it seems like everybody is ill here.You get to know pretty quickly that she hates a lot of things: hates that Hunter flirts with her, she hates that he ended up in their coed dorm, and basically hates that he's a guy.
I should have needed to read the story, wanted to engage with characters because good books are supposed to draw you in.
Why do I freaking love this book?Its all because of Hunter Zaccadelli. Now I'm really in love at first read. (:Where have you been all my life?  You.Are.So.Hot. Taylor Caldwell. What a lucky girl! Having a HOT roommate all by herself!  1 room. 2 beds.  A female sleeping in the same room with a guy who always sleeps NAKED.I shoved my face under the covers. I did not just see that. I peeked out again. Yup. Hunter Jr. was awake and standing at attention. Oh. My. God. I faced the wall, unable to loo
Why do I freaking love this book?Its all because of Hunter Zaccadelli.
Now I'm really in love at first read.
A female sleeping in the same room with a guy who always sleeps NAKED.I shoved my face under the covers.
If I'm in her shoes I wouldn't be able to control myself and I'll definitely poke Hunter Jr. Three times.
Lol.and if only Hunter will tell me this line:"Well, goodnight.
Feel free to dream about me naked and scream all you want.
Even though Hunter and Taylor have their own personal issues they really are perfect with each other.
Who wouldn't love Hunter?
The relationship between Taylor and Hunter was also one dimensional, especially considering that the work beat the idea into the head of the reader 85% of the time that Taylor would eventually fall in love with Hunter.
Ugh.*** I could probably write a book about how Hunter annoys Taylor, but Taylor's equally abrasive, which makes the two of them really hard to sympathize/emphasize with.**** She actually calls him bipolar many, many times.
4 stars  ”Loving you was the best mistake I ever made.”  Taylor opens the door to her new roommate only to find Hunter with a footlocker, backpack and a guitar. Taylor’s pissed, even more so than normal, she can’t believe her luck …  ”There must be a mistake”“That’s a creative name. What do you shorten it to? Missy?”  Everything about Hunter sets Taylor off, his cocky smile, his no filter of a mouth, him being a guy and the fact that she wants to punch and kiss him all at the same time. Taylor h
Everything about Hunter sets Taylor off, his cocky smile, his no filter of a mouth, him being a guy and the fact that she wants to punch and kiss him all at the same time.
Hunter and Taylor are more alike than they could ever imagine, they both have pasts that haunts them, they both don’t believe in Happily Ever After and it pisses them off that they can’t stay away from each other
I don’t like how your hair smells, and how I can’t stop thinking about waking up and seeing your face.
Taylor finds herself smiling more and not so angry all thanks to Hunter.
I recently re-read this (well most of it) and have moved my rating down to a 1 star. Taylor is one of the worst main characters I have ever read. She is selfish, immature, and annoying. This book has the same plot line as most new adult novels, but My Favorite Mistake didn't execute it as well as the others. Will not be finishing this series, and most likely will not be reading Chelsea's other series.
DNFThis came off as way too immature for me.
This book was so great.  I LOVED HUNTER!!!!!  He was the complete package! Wow... okay, Taylor and her two roommates find them self with an unexpected roommate in the coed dorms... Hunter. The first time Taylor meets him she punches him in the face. I could go on and on about this book, I read it in one sitting because I could not put it down and I had a smile on my face the whole time! If you haven't read it you are missing out! Read it!!!!!
If you are beating people up for any other reason then you need to seek help.My Favourite Mistake starts with the main character Taylor making the following statement:The first time I met Hunter Zaccadelli, I punched him in the face.
I felt bad about what had happened to her and could understand her being wary around men and finding it difficult to trust people but that is still no excuse for her getting violent.I kept hoping we'd see her get some kind of anger management but she refuses to accept any kind of help and that wasn't the only time she hit Hunter either.
After she hits Hunter in the face AND balls for being a jerk, she's actually proud of the fact.
Punch a guy that will retaliate and THEN you can be proud that you stood on your own (even if you lose a few teeth in the process.)NOTE TO WOMEN: The only reason you should use violence against a man if if you are defending your person.
Hitting a man to settle an argument or because he was "mean to you" does NOT show you as an adult woman but as a little girl who resorts to violence when she cannot get her way.
I’ll sleep right through it.”I LOVED Hunter!
You.”“You want to, that’s part of your problem”Before I could react, he crossed the room and stood right in front of me.
From then on it’s all mega swoony romance, and gorgeous moments as the two of them fall deeply in love and Hunter helps Taylor deal with her issues, heal and finally move forward.
The relationship between Taylor and Hunter is really well written, and very realistic.
I don’t know which it will be, but I can’t wait to check back in with these characters, and read more from this author.Love is simple.
They are both broken, they both have secrets that don’t want to share and they both have parts of their lives that they will do anything to keep private.So when they are forced to be roommates it’s not going to be easy to coexist, especially when Taylor doesn't trust guys and will do anything to put him away.
So they make a bet: If she can prove to him that either hate him or love him he will go away and leave their house.
The story is sweet and is really good to see how they struggle to find a way of dealing with their past and try to look for a future… without ever forgetting the bet.
I love Hunter Zaccadelli....it was great reading this chapter from his point of view.
I always love reading the other POV to hear both sides of the story.
I LOVED Hunter...he was fantastic:) I thought his and Taylor's relationship was great.
I did think that it took a little long to get their secrets revealed, but I guess that is what made this book one I couldn't put down.
Taylor's secret I guessed before it was revealed but Hunter's...I had no idea, complete shock.
I also loved that their love story was drama free, besides their secrets, there was no outside drama factors.
We got Taylor, a short tempered, evil bitch character that despite being the victim of a sexual assault failed miserably to make me feel sorry for her, mainly because she was a rude, mean person, who thought that just because she had a fucked up past she was entitled to bursts of violence against the opposite sex.The male counterpart was supposed to be a bad boy with all his tattoos and suave moves but he was anything but that.
When she finally reveals her secret and has sex with Hunter it was like her character went through a 180 degree change but by that point I had completely lost interest in the story.
Despite his awesome treatment/ welcome, he gives her three options to get him to voluntarily move out: Prove you hate me, love me, or sleep with me...
Not a cute, cuddly, run away from feelings because she is scared kind of a thing- B.E.O.T.C.H. I found myself saying "ooohhh HELL to tha NO!!!...
Literally NOTHING until like the last 20% of the book, and EVEN THEN, its sketchy and completely unpredictable at best.
They do finally get it together, which is awesome- but in the back of my mind- I'm thinking that if Hunter were one of MY friends, I would have told him to run FAR, FAR away.
"Love is so much more powerful than hate" I really liked this one and I am totally in love with Hunter...
I loved the way they met each other, I loved the hate-love relationship and I loved their first kiss and their story :)Guys, if you liked Beautiful Disaster you will like this one (Hunter is more gentleman than Travis by the way...
but they both are great).Favorite quote: "Love is so much more powerful than hate.
I used to hate you, but it's so much easier to love.
And that's something you will never understand" I liked the story but  the writing style is even better.
Taylor her seferinde ondan nefret ettiğini dile getirse de Hunter her seferinde ondan daha da inandırıcı olmasını ister, çünkü nefreti içinde değil sadece dilindedir Taylor'un..Hikayemiz de, maceramız da işte bu iddia ile başlar :)  İki karakterin de geçmişte yaşadığı, travmaya yol açan, geceleri çığlık çığlığa uyandıran sorunları var.
Buna rağmen Hunter'ın Taylor'dan bir an bile vazgeçmemesi çok güzeldi.Taylor'un yaşadığı travmanın üstünden gelmeye çalışmasında yardımcı olması, ona devamlı seni yıldızlar kadar çok seviyorum demesi okurken daha da keyiflenmenizi sağlıyor :)Bu kitabı okurken aklıma Jennifer Armentrout'un Hep Seni Bekledim kitabındaki Cam karakteri geldi.
Daha iyi olsaydı keşke dedim.Ama yine de eğlenceli bir kitap işte.
TEASERs - GENRE: New Adult  "The first day I met Hunter Zaccadelli, I punched him in the face.""He showed up with a foot locker, a backpack and a guitar. It was so beyond cliché that I didn't say anything for the full three seconds it took for me to assess him. Dark hair buzzed so short, his head was almost shaved, piercing blue eyes, and at least a foot on my 5'0. And a cocky smile to top it all off. He might as well have had Trouble tattooed on his forehead. "“Are you uncomfortable with stayin
"The first day I met Hunter Zaccadelli, I punched him in the face.""He showed up with a foot locker, a backpack and a guitar.
I'll stay with him and Renee can stay with you,” Darah said.“Why can't he stay with me?” Renee whined.“Because you'll rape him in his sleep,” I said.Hunter makes Nutella French Toast for Taylor and their roommates:French toast was one of those foods that seemed easy to make, but was crazy easy to screw up.
Hunter was watching me, as if waiting for my reaction.“It's okay, I guess,” I said, cutting up another piece and shoving it in my mouth.
Love guy's POV.. I wish full and more books were written in their POV.. Its nice to get into their heads!Merged review:Loved the book! A little slow at a point, but amazing and wonderful throughout!Loved all the characters very much!“Why can't he stay with me?” Renee whined.“Because you'll rape him in his sleep,” I said.“You can't rape the willing, Tay,” she said, winking.“You're disgusting.”
Hunter war toll, aber Taylor hat mich wahnsinnig genervt. Die Geschichte hat mich nicht wirklich packen können, deshalb 3,5 Sterne
I know that many people don’t like “Beautiful Disaster”, but I loved it so I was happy to read something similar.The first thing that rubbed me wrong in “My Favorite Mistake” was unrealistic of heroes living arrangement.
I believe that boys and girls can live in the next rooms.
She so strongly hated this living arrangement, but when girls next door several time offered to switch places with Taylor, she declined.
All in all Taylor was very unpleasant and didn’t deserve Hunter.The good thing was that when they actually got together their romance was sweet.
"You love me?" he asks her."No," she responds"You hate me?" he then asks."I likely do," would be me responding in her place.Meh.I mean, truthfully it was fun when it counted; otherwise, it was a bit lot of nothing much.
Where she's prickly and tough girl, he's sad sad sad but putting on a front: an ass hole jerkface front that rightfully rubbed her the wrong way the first time they laid eyes on each other.
It's that last fact that led me to discover that the phrase "eye fucking" can indeed be overused!
You hate me this happens and you love me that happens.
drama.
drama surfaced in this one.
More than the stars.” & “Love is simple.
You just gotta let yourself fall and have faith that someone will be there to catch you.” Favorite Character - TaylorI thoroughly enjoyed this emotional new adult book, it managed to not only live up to but surpass my expectations.
The concept of the story was simple but the content was anything but.
I could "feel" the emotions between them, the love felt so real.
"More than the stars" *sign* sometimes it made me so emotionally gooey - like marshmallow fluff.I was so pleased with how everything worked out & the ending was awesome.
Aber nöö, er rennt Taylor hinterher, sein Leben ist einzig und allein darauf ausgerichtet der Dumpfbacke zu gefallen, die ihm immer und immer wieder eine Beleidigung nach der anderen an den Kopf schmeißt und es auch überhaupt nicht bedenklich findet, dass der Junge sie quasi stalkt.
Aber wir wissen ja schon seit „Twilight“ dass sowas als romantisch gilt, wenn der Junge überall auftaucht, wo die Tuse rumhüpft – und sei es auch nur der Gang zur Toilette.Der Punkt, an dem ich dann in hysterisches Gekicher ausgebrochen bin war, als die Vergangenheiten enthüllt werden.
