https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17182126-steelheart
The reason for this is that so far, I haven't read a book by Brandon Sanderson that I haven't loved.
That means it's quite likely that I'll get a chance to read another good book, which is always welcome.
OR I'll finally read something of Sanderson's I *don't* like.
Well, because Brandon writes so much faster than me.
It only seems fair that some of his stuff should be crap.
It just doesn't seem fair that he's brilliant AND fast....
Unfortunately for my ego, Steelheart is another win for Sanderson, proving that he's not a brilliant writer of epic fantasy, he's simply a brilliant writer.
Nice take on superheroes.
Nice world creation.
Once again, I leave a Brandon Sanderson book completely impressed! This one had a fantastic story, great world building, and of course plenty of awesome action scenes! I enjoyed this book from the beginning, but it was really the last 100 pages or so that propelled this from the 4-star range to a solid 5-star book for me. Twists and revelations and enough questions that I'm just itching to pick up the next book immediately!
Reviewed by: Rabid Reads4.5 starsI'm probably going to make Sandersonite heads everywhere explode when I say this, but STEELHEART might be my new favorite Sanderson book.
David is an orphan who's father was killed in front of him by an Epic (humans who began to manifest superhero-like powers after Calamity appeared in the sky--no, we don't know what Calamity is, but it might be my new favorite curse word) named Steelheart when he was a child.
They looked so dangerous, like alligators.
I was a bit worried, b/c I thought MISTBORN #2 was OTT teen-angsty, and it wasn't even YA, so what would deliberate YA from Sanderson look like?Perfection, that's what.
that was disappointing.I've heard such great things about all of Brandon Sanderson's books and he's an author I've been meaning to read for what seems like forever.
I've been lectured for calling various novels "boy books" in the past - I tend to get female readers angrily pounding their chests and asking how dare I suggest that women don't want to read about cars and guns and whatnot.
Because I do see myself as a feminist and don't feel like men and women have to read certain types of books that suit their gender.
This book is so good! ❤I cried in this book because of something sad and then it wasn't sad because of reasons but I'm not sure because of . . . I cried because of the REVELATIONS, REVELATIONS, REVELATIONS! They were so freaking awesome that I can't evennnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn!  I've seen Steelheart bleed.And I will see him bleed again. Yes, we all know that line. Those that have read the book. This is what David thinks when 10 years ago his father was killed by Steelheart. Now Da
❤I cried in this book because of something sad and then it wasn't sad because of reasons but I'm not sure because of .
Those that have read the book.
This is what David thinks when 10 years ago his father was killed by Steelheart.
A lot of the world has been totally destroyed by some Epics but Steelheart has his town running smoothly.
When David helps the Reckoners on a hit, he finally gets to meet them and gets his chance to prove to them he's smart, he's done research for 10 years on these Epics, and he means business.
I had a blast reading this book.
The way Steelheart is described to look exactly like Superman does in the comics and cartoons, except with a black cloke instead of the Red one.An event called the "Calamity" happened, casing normal people to gain super powers.
He is not really Superman gone bad; it is more if superman was never good.The story starts with 8 year old David with his father in a bank trying to get a mortgage.
David's father shoots the Epic but in the process injures the seemingly invulnerable Steelheart.
Enraged and wanting no wittiness to this event Steelheart kills David's father, everyone in the bank, destroys the bank itself and even the rescue workers.
It was not detrimental, but the most interesting portion of the plot unfolded quickly right at the end of the book & it was just a little off balance from the rest of the story.Otherwise, this is one hell of a book!After the world is visited by Calamity, average humans are randomly gifted supernatural powers.
evil story on its surface, but as layers of the plot are revealed it becomes much more than that.It's fast-paced & full of exciting action!
This book invites the reader to speculate along with the characters about how to solve the problems the Epics present.
Kindle deal for a limited time for $1.99 01Nov18 at Amazon3rd Read with by favorite buddy reading group Buddies Books & BaublesWhy should you read this series in a nut shell: - David is the most Adorkable yes it is a real word character I've ever read.  - There are EVIL superheroes. EVIL SUPERHEROES!!! - Lots of different kinds of action happening. Motorcycle chases, car crashes, one on on fighting...etc - A really good twist (actually about 3 but they were all awesome) and I only semi guess
Like great or at least super funny.2nd read:Buddy Read/Reread TODAY Dec 8 2014 with my fellow Sandersonitus Sufferers Athena (Shardbearer), Armina, Gavin, Kat Stark, Evengy, Desinka, Alexa, Shandra, Annette, Nicholas, Carole, Ashley, Eon, Kristen, Danae and we also hijacked oOSarahOo Last Minute.On the Reckoners Group Read Thread Original Review October 2013:Imagine a world where there are no good X-Men. What would happen if there are only villains with great powers and no heroes?
David is a very likeable character he is a slight know it all but has the hardest time putting a metaphor together which kind of made him endearing to me.
I've seen Steelheart bleed. I always love when a book begins with a solid first sentence. And this novel was a good example of that. PUSHED TO THE NEXT STEP OF EVOLUTION This is my first book by Brandon Sanderson and now I realize why he is so popular and well rated by a lot of readers and reviewers. Certainly he has a great style and entertaining style that you aren't never bored of what is happening. I am aware that this novel is from a genre kinda new to him since this is a "super-hero" book
I am aware that this novel is from a genre kinda new to him since this is a "super-hero" book while he has been writing more in the genres of epic fantasy.
However, I wanted to try this author on this particular novel since I am huge fan of super-heroes and since this was a prose novel in that genre, well, I supposed that it was a good way to know if I'd like this author.
The young man who wishes to kill Steelheart is named David, David Charleston, and I think that it was a great idea to name him like that since he is a "David" trying to kill "Goliaths" with super-powers.
Sanderson's writing brought me thoroughly and completely in David's world - a very dark, merciless world - and in it I stayed until the last page was turned!
My advice to you: buckle up, because it's a wild, turbulent ride!In David's world, the Epics - humans with extraordinary powers - have taken over.
This may not sound like anything new - your average comic book premise, even - but the creativity is in the details.
We have a protagonist who's dedicated his life to learning about the Epics, his knowledge on the matter turns him into a capable and intelligent character.
<--and that's the premise of this book.So. If (for unknown reasons) there were suddenly people granted superpowers, and (for unknown reasons) they all turned into bad guys, and they all (for unknown reasons) had secret strange weaknesses that made no sense - then who would fight them?Enter the Reckoners!A bunch of humans who ferret out the weakness and then kill the Epic.
<--this is importantAs in, the whole book is about David joining the Reckoners and convincing them that somewhere in his memory is the key to Steelheart's secret weakness.
I got to read this early. No spoilers, but it's FANTASTIC.
“I’ve seen Steelheart bleed. And I will see him bleed again.” Epics are humans with super powers. These powers corrupt their souls, turning them into tyrannical murderers that think themselves divine. Steelheart is one of these and he has the ability to turn anything he touches into steel, including his own skin which renders him completely impervious to harm. He murdered David’s father, but not before he managed to shoot him in the face leaving a scar on the supposedly invincible Epic’s cheek.
David is the only person to ever see him bleed, and has spent the rest of his life planning to make him do it again.
David, now eighteen, wants to join the Reckoners: a select group of Epic hunters.
In the midst of them David even finds a love interest, though she doesn’t seem to like him back.
Steelheart’s weakness has only manifested itself once, when David’s father shot him, and it’s almost impossible to tell what that weakness was: it could have been anything in the room at the time.
David and the Reckoners have a lot to go through if they wish to bring down Steelheart.
geeky compared to the complex magic mechanics and exceptional world building of the above mentioned.It was geeky - yet in a great way and I am not at all disappointed by the 384 pages that I raced through.We follow, in the first person an everyday dude called David in a slightly futuristic world that is populated by certain 'super-beings' who were created following a burst in the sky - named Calamity.
Lot's of here-say, guessing, analysis for the normal folks and the Reckoners trying to figure them out and they are just very mysterious and super powerful- that is for certain.
It addresses some complex moral and philosophical dilemmas, and as with most of Sanderson's works, there is a considerable amount of depth underneath the standard plot.The book excels in world building, in action sequences, in the writing.
They take over the world.David watched as an extremely powerful Epic named Steelheart murdered his father before his eyes when he was eight years old.
It takes a lot of practice, it takes a considerable amount of skills, and I don't feel like David has the experience necessary to justify his brilliance in battle and in dangerous situations.The Romance: I did not mind the light romance in this book.
Brandon Sanderson is one of my favourite authors and I’m kinda disappointed that he chose such a light tone on this one when I know, I know, I KNOW he could’ve created a masterpiece, if only he would’ve treated it like he treated The Mistborn series.The action is set in our world, but some people (called Epics and what a cool name that is) have supernatural powers AND THEY’RE USING THEM FOR THEIR OWN BENEFIT!
But when you’re fed up with stories about “the greater good” and “great power comes with great responsibility”, something like that comes like a breth of fresh air.But please, please, please, don’t turn this into a book for kids, especially when I know what you’re capable of writing.
The world kinda ends with an event called Calamity. Ordinary people get superpowers? Kinda sounds cool huh? Well they don't use their powers for good. They use those suckers to rule the world! The Reckoners are the group trying to fight against them. At times I got bored with them. They did spend too much time discussing plans. I didn't care. I just wanted shit blew up.I did get entranced when the action started. That was intense and very well done. This kinda reads similar to Xmen gone bad. I l
The world kinda ends with an event called Calamity.
Ordinary people get superpowers?
Kinda sounds cool huh?
Well they don't use their powers for good.
They use those suckers to rule the world!
The Reckoners are the group trying to fight against them.
At times I got bored with them.
They did spend too much time discussing plans.
I just wanted shit blew up.I did get entranced when the action started.
This kinda reads similar to Xmen gone bad.
I like Xmen.
I like bad guys.
I like shit getting destroyed.
I took away one because of the boring stuff.
from my 14-year-old reluctant reader and me!🌟My 14-year-old son just recently began listening to audiobooks with me for about an hour every night, we started with some ghost stories and now we have moved on to fantasy....
so all those fantasy books sitting on my phone will now be listened to by my son and I over the course of this year....What I really appreciated about this book was that it was not confusing....
I think listening with my son really brought this home to me.....I brought this up to him, as I was explaining why books are better than movies, and he agreed with me!
Now don’t just run away now assuming this isn’t for you because before reading this book I would have thought that too.
Now reading the story you are, of course, rooting for the The Reckoners and their quest to kill Steelheart but Sanderson doesn’t allow us to blindly accept this as a fight between good and evil.
It isn’t purely good humans versus purely bad Epics.
The Reckoners aren’t ‘ridding the world of a villain’, they’re killing a person; a super-human dictator person, granted, but a person nonetheless.
Mr S"Anderson" didn't fail me so far, so why start now ?It was a cool read: tight and smooth , a terrific world with new rules and a reality where people with superpowers are unavoidably villains with a god complex and a thirst for dominion, enter the Reckoners : Defenders of the fellow man and banes to the oppressors ...Suffice to say it's a must read.
(I don’t know why my mind conjures Loki’s image whenever Steelheart is described.^^)He is an “Epic” (could be a superhuman, an alien, a result of a science experiment, I’m not really sure) with supernatural abilities and strength and is the ruler of a city called Newcago.
Ninja alligators."The complication of the story obviously begins with David’s resolve to avenge the unjust death of his father which is a very effective focal point that sprouted action filled events, dynamic and fascinating characters (the Reckoners), giving the entire story a superhero movie/comic book appeal.
4.5 stars.This was another great book by the ever dependable Brandon Sanderson.
Unfortunately this taste of power corrupted the "Epics" who developed the superpowers and they now rule the world as they see fit and treat the ordinary humans as little more than slaves.
Our main character David is intent on joining the Reckoners in order to seek vengeance against the the Epic who killed his father.
Unfortunately for him this Epic is the titular Steelheart, an almost invulnerable Superman-like hero with little in the way of morals!.
This was not Sanderson's best book, but it was still a very enjoyable read.
I was very excited to read this YA fantasy series - super powers? post apocalyptic-ish? Brandon Sanderson? Yes!!I liked it but oh my, I cannot deal with the fake swear words (Calamity, Slontze, Sparks... like really?!)I was about to lower my rating by 0.5 just because of this but the ending was good... Sanderson always writes good endings.Will continue the series.
I thought this book would rock my world.I mean, I have heard so much about this god-writer named Brandon Sanderson, whose fantasy works blow the minds of readers, that I needed to see if the hype around him was a well-deserved reflection on the author’s skills.
The prologue was breath-taking and, in the following chapters, the author presented the world in such an interesting way, never actually dumping the info on us as though we’re robots ready to absorb it.
My not liking this book does not mean I will not give this author another try.
Review: Hello Beautiful Book Blog Steelheart was awesome! Super fun and action packed with humor attached! Epic!I loved David's awkwardness and stupid metaphors. The twist I did not see coming. It's hard to fool me!David grew up in Newcago, a city in the future where the Epic, Steelheart rules. The book starts out with David trying to prove to the Reckoners that he will be an asset to them. He meets Prof, Megan, Tia, Cody and Abraham of the Newcago Reckoners. Once he is partly accepted he start
Epic!I loved David's awkwardness and stupid metaphors.
It's hard to fool me!David grew up in Newcago, a city in the future where the Epic, Steelheart rules.
The book starts out with David trying to prove to the Reckoners that he will be an asset to them.
Once he is partly accepted he starts to shake up their way of thinking and starts in on a plan that could change Newcago forever.I would not be doing this review justice if I didn't give a little preview of the hilarity that is David and also his bad metaphors.
When David is eight years old, he sees his father murdered by Steelheart, one of these superpowered thugs, called Epics.
Ten years later, it's a dystopian world, where Epics and their gangs rule over different cities and terrorize the ordinary humans.
David, now 18, seeks to find and join the Reckoners, an underground rebellion that assassinates Epics who murder ordinary people.
There were a bunch of questions that were niggling at me for most of the book ((view spoiler)[Why does each Epic have to have a weakness--who made that rule?
Los personajes de este libro me gustaron mucho, definitivamente Brandon Sanderson sabe cómo darle vida a un personaje, como desarrollar una historia en la cual todos tus personajes encajen a la perfección, David es mi personaje favorito del libro (aunque al principio me caia un poco mal), pero me gusto ver el desarrollo de este personaje en el libro, ver como estuvo decidido a unirse a los Reckoners un grupo destinado a matar a tantos épicos como sea posible, verlo con tantas ganas de vengar la muerte de su padre me gusto, sin importarle que algo le pasara siempre estuvo decidido a darlo todo, dejando sus miedos atrás y decidido a luchar hasta la muerte, Megan es otro personaje que va a dar mucho de qué hablar la verdad este personaje me cayó mal desde el primer momento en que apareció, pero luego comenzó a caerme un poco mejor.
That was an awesome read! Full of action, super interesting story! I cannot wait until the next book! I love anti hero stories..
He can turn any non-living matter to steel: thus his name and he is completely immune to all ways of killing a person known to humanity.
The author is one of acknowledged masters of writing great one-on-one action scenes and if you do not believe it read this book as a proof.
These parts of the book made for a nice breather between adrenalin rushes, they also made one think - just like David was forced to.The book is supposed to belong to Young Adult genre, but it is highly entertaining for those who passed that particular time of their lives a long time ago.
As much as some of us want to write off the genre as "young", authors like B.
This is how he gets together with the Prof - the mysterious leader, Tia - the research and intelligence department, Abraham - the groups consciousness, Cody - the joke cracking heart of the party, and Meg - the cranky, brave and bodacious one:) David is full of ideas, hopes and very, very bed, but colorful metaphors.
Overall, this David and Goliath story provides one exciting ride!I will recommend this to all who love books full of imagination and flawless execution.
