https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17781.Heart_of_the_Sea
I loved the continuity of this series.
It was a bit like Jude and Aidan and Brenna and Shawn's stories were continued and I, as the reader, got to know them a bit better than I had before.I liked this series because it was… practical.
And seeing how Trevor kept offering her jewels and opportunities because he thought it might keep her with him… I loved that.The one scene that should have felt stupid and cliché didn't, which is a tribute to Roberts, and the aftermath of it had me giggling.Corrick, as usual, was fantastic.
Nora Roberts ama Irlanda, y se nota. Preciosa trilogía. ❤️
In spite of the fact that I loved Jewels of the Sun, and enjoyed Tears of the Moon, I am now officially off the Nora bandwagon.
With just pages to go until the end, Darcy is still flinging things at Trevor and pissed off.
And, after watching Carrick (the fairy king) and Gwen (his ghostly love) suffer and pine for each other throughout all three books, I was really looking forward to their reunion.
The first book, Jewels of the Sun, was really romantic, so I guess I'm glad I gave this trilogy a go.
This ends the trilogy. Will the Fairy Prince and the beautiful maid finally find love? Well...only if they can get the last couple to cooperate and break the curse.  Said couple consists of the beautiful heartbreaking Darcy and the 'business first' Trevor. Both of them are sure they are not capable of love. Neither of them want to be the first to admit it when they fall in love. And worse? They are both manipulators.  Once again Nora takes two unlikely people and wrap them up in love and magic with her Nora Roberts ways. Beautiful trilogy! 😁💕📖
He didn't count on being mesmerized by Darcy Gallagher.This might be easier if I just list what I loved and didn't about this...
Just an overall disconnectedness (right word?) I suppose.The story bored me at times, it would pick up again not long after but some bits had me fighting not to skim pages in case I missed something.The ending was abrupt, it felt rushed and wrapped up too quickly.
a little saddened that since this is the third book, we don't get to see more of Trevor and Darcy's life together.
It feels a little like Darcy got shorted in her story.
It's impossible for me to truly enjoy a book when i just don't like the main characters.Darcy was okay when she was a supporting player in the other stories, but she was just overly obnoxious here. I have never seen someone so obsessed with money and the idea of being rich. And Trevor wasn't much better. He came off as an arrogant asshat most of the time. My love for the other members of the Gallagher family just couldn't save this one for me,
This is book #3 in the Gallaghers of Ardmore trilogy. I enjoyed parts, skimmed through numerous repetitious parts and found both Darcy and Trevor a bit materialistic for my taste. Repetition is always a killer for me and by the time you get to book#3 there's only so much about Carrick and Qwen I want to read. There are also numerous grave scenes and pub scenes that felt been there, done that. Once you get around page 300 or so, the pace picks up but by then I'd skimmed quite a few pages of the book.
I liked the character of Darcy - strong, beautiful but intelligent, fearless of going after what she wants and loves her family fiercely.And, as I mentioned in my review of Jewels of the Sun, I am kind of more in love with the myth than the main story. I loved ending of the myth. Not saying much for spoilers, though.
She is unashamedly materialistic and self-interested and knows what she wants and, more importantly, why—which has made Trevor Magee an obvious target since he showed up off-screen in book 1.Interestingly, Roberts chose to make Trevor a near cookie-cutter image of Darcy rather than a complement to her.
Roberts' skill comes through in making us care about this relationship even though it looks, on the surface, like a cynical match of convenience—Trevor gets a beautiful woman, Darcy gets everything that money can buy.
Probably her only good quality is her fierce loyalty to her brothers but other than that, she seems very superficial and her growth in the final pages was too little too late for me.I enjoyed what happened with all the secondary characters, finding out what was going on with their lives.I was really bothered by Darcy behaving like a spoiled child in one scene at the end, screaming and throwing china and glass objects at the man she loves, leaving him bleeding, both head and foot, isn't cute or funny.
I finished this book yesterday afternoon but was feeling way too lazy to update! I really liked this series, and the last book was definitely a treat. Trevor Magee, as gruff alpha-male, was fun to read, especially with Darcy throwing things at him!I just wish that we could have seen more of Trevor/Darcy and Carrick/Gwen in the end, when things finally came together. Even more of Shawn & Brianna, and Aidan and Jude, with their new baby! I love the journey, to see how people work things out together, but I also love to see where they go after that.
I don't really get it...I dare say, had it not been for the more active parts of Carrick and Gwen, or Trevor (who I'm disappointed to see has a fortune to boost, cause I really wanted Darcy to find a poor guy just for the heck of it!), I would have left the book halfway and banged my head on the wall to rid myself of the misery of reading any more of the thoughts going around in Darcy's head.
I'd hope my two closest friends in the world would have some interest." In case you don't understand, this is the scene after Darcy has found out she's in love with Trevor.
Terceiro e último livro da Trilogia Irlandesa, com Darcy Gallagher e Trevor Magee como protagonistas.Darcy sempre sonhou casar com um homem rico e bonito.
Por debaixo de tudo isso, esconde-se uma mulher com anseios, sentimentos e medos.Trevor é metódico, trabalhador, controlado, inteligente e um tanto ou quanto arrogante.
Tal como Darcy, também tem desejos profundos e medo desses desejos, pelo que opta por escondê-los.Ambos têm personalidades fortes, e ambos lutam por manter o controlo da relação, jogando ao gato-e-rato, durante grande parte do livro.Mas, como sempre o amor triunfa no fim...
e não só para Darcy e Trevor, como também como para Carrick e Lady Gwen.
Nice endingIt's been a long time since I've read the previous books in this series. As I read this, it was easy to remember them. Sadly, I didn't like this one as much as the others. Darcy was hard to like. She was so arrogant and prideful. Then, when things weren't going her way, rather than be honest, she decided to play games. And Trevor was equally as stubborn.
Having enjoyed the previous books I'm disappointed in Heart of the Sea. Maybe it's because I've never cared much for Darcy - as a secondary character she's tolerable but I couldn't stand her as a main character. Trevor was alright but I just didn't care for him the way I did Aidan or Shawn.I was also hoping for a better ending for Carrick and Gwen. After all of their suffering they're only given a sentence or two on the last page. A mini epilogue of their reunion would have been nice.
The close relationships - friends, family, neighbors are present, but not dominating the love story.
That is just not realistic.Darcy Gallagher wants the fine things in life, travel, fine clothing, and most of all a rich husband to provide them.
She sounds rather mercenary but Darcy has a great heart for her family and friends.
She just knows what she wants out of life and living forever in Ardmore isn't it.Trevor Mcgee has returned to Ardmore to build a music theater in partnership with the Gallaghers.
Darcy wants it all, fame, fortune and love.
Darcy, of the flamboyant personality, volatile temper, sharp tongue and of the assumed mercenary interests, was a challenge.
I really liked how she realized progressively how her former expectations were wrong and definitely not enough to make her happy.
I really would have liked to see him grovel much more by the end, instead of (view spoiler)[ just end up on the receiving end of Darcy's fury when she threw at him what seemed to be the whole content of her apartment - I have trouble with physical violence and this scene did not appeal to me at all  (hide spoiler)].
I am not going to review every Nora Roberts book that I have read in the past because she is quite prolific and it would get redundant and I honestly cannot remember all the plots.
I think I have read every one of her books to date because despite the cheesy nature, the ending is always happy and the read is easy.
Frankly, I like these books and will continue to read each one that comes out.
I am going to post this same review for each of her books that I have read in the past.
This final installment in Roberts's faerie tale trilogy returns readers to Ardmore, Ireland, where the Gallagher family's pub is the heart of the community.
Passionate and beautiful, Darcy Gallagher works as a waitress in the family pub while looking for a way to achieve the glamorous lifestyle to which she would like to become accustomed.
As Darcy and Trevor revel in the heated sexual attraction that flares between them, neither believes that they are the final key to end an ancient spell that separated Carrick the Faerie Prince and his human lady love, Gwen.
But Ireland is a magic place, where the faeries dance among mere mortals and love blossoms under starry skies.
http://nwhyte.livejournal.com/1852745...the happily predestined couple fall in love at first sight (on page 24) and spend the book struggling only with each other's personalities (and their own) and exploring the troubling possibility that the family ghosts are pushing them together before deciding to ignore it.
Every other character (ghosts included) wishes them well, so there is no external factor to make things interesting.
The anthropologist-turned-barmaid from the first book gives birth at the end of this one, in a graphically described scene which rather gives the impression that she and the baby miraculously managed without a placenta - I know that's normal for births on film and TV, but hadn't realised it extended to fluffy romance novels too.
Adorei o último livro desta trilogia e de certa maneira identifiquei-me com a Darcy, pois também eu transmito uma maneira de ser que não é a realidade.Opinião completa em: http://aviciadadoslivros.blogspot.pt/...
That was such a cute end to this trilogy.
- Trevor seems smitten and wants to spend more time with Darcy, so when he asks her to show him around town - she says she will but for money!!!
Brenna then asks pregnant Jude how the birthing classes are going and when Jude starts to answer - Darcy rudely interrupts to say "Excuse me!
Yes, I understand that the author wants the readers to think Darcy has changed her attitude and wants to marry for love, not to be a pampered mistress - but this came too little, too late - like 5 pages from the end of the book!!!
Trevor Magee feels the magic in the very place his father was born and it’s no surprise that Prince Carrick makes sure that Darcy & Trevor will, despite fighting against their demons, will find each other, thus breaking the heartbreaking spell in his faerie heart.
I so loved the scene where Carrick & Lady Gwen finally are together and fly off in a golden carriage to have their long awaited HEA.A PLACE OF MAGIC………….I love this series and it’s on my favorite books shelf and I will no doubt pick them up again and read them once more.If you believe in magic, romance, love….read this series.
The order is important to the mortal characters, and also the progression of fate for faerie Prince, Carrick, and his lost love, Lady Gwen.
Carrick was intriguing and at his most dramatic self in this book - after all, this couple was his last hope!
For this reason I will not read another Nora Roberts book.
Loved all three stories in the Irish trilogy, but I don’t like the offending words in #3 used over and over and over… This was my least favorite of the three books, but I would still give another half-star to 3 1/2.
Book 1 was okay even though pathetic Jude's whining annoyed me after awhile but I loved Aidan.
I liked book 2 since, while a bit pushy at times, I actually like Brenna and Shawn.
it's getting 2 stars instead of 1 because I actually liked Trevor and I like some of the background characters but I HATE Darcy.
I hoped she'd fall in love with a poor man just because she's so awful it'd been good karma but that's not how Nora rolls I guess.
Ugh, this book annoyed me so much.
In fact I'm giving Nora Roberts trilogies a rest for awhile because they keep repeating themselves and disappointing me.
Anyway, I still consider this last one book of the Irish Trilogy not my favourite.
I still consider the ending is perfect, when finally Lady Gwen and Carrick end up together.Now that I've read the 3 books I have to admit that the second one (Tears of the Moon) is definetely my favorite.
The first one (Jewels of the Sun) is amazing and it's a great hook to keep reading the others, the second I absolutely love it and the last one..
É o último livro desta triologia, do qual vou sentir saudades. Sniff sniff, mas temos que falar nele não é verdade? Darcy sempre acreditou na tradição e no poder do dinheiro, ela sonha encontrar um homem rico mas até que chega Trevor um homem de negócios e chega com a intenção de construir um teatro e também descobrir os segredos dos seus antepassados. Claro que Darcy fica logo interessada nele, um homem rico e giro, pudera... Foi divertido ver a Darcy atrás do Trevor e a tentar seduzi-lo. Gostei imenso, mas confesso que gostei mais do segundo livro.http://aviciadadoslivros.blogspot.pt/...
Oh I adore these books, after reading the Cousin O'Dwyer books by Nora Roberts I thought I would give these a try and am so glad I did.Nora Roberts blends a wonderful spell of folklore, magic and romance. I have to say out of all the characters in the books it was Darcy who intrigued me. Always quick to temper and detained to get what she wants, it was never a boring read.Having Irish heritage this book called to me, and made me long to see the greenery of Ireland.
Simplesmente amei esta trilogia. Os livros foram lidos quase de uma vez. A trama, a narrativa, a concepção e apresentação das personagens está tão bem feita que andei pelos cantos a suspirar pelas terras da Irlanda e pela magia que elas nos transmite.Opinião completa em: http://bookscoffee21.blogspot.pt/
