https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/987670.My_Life
"Sono passati tanti anni da quando è morta!Dove sei ora, piccola madre?
Io sono qui, lontano.
Non so più pregare e piango sempre più di rado.Ma la mia anima pensa a te, a me, e il mio pensiero si consuma nel dispiacere.Non ti chiedo di pregare per me.
Dimmi piccola madre: nell'altro mondo, in paradiso, nelle nuvole, là dove sei, ti consola il mio amore?Potrò con le parole filare per te un pò di tenera, carezzevole dolcezza?"(Ricopio fedelmente senza aggiungere una parola in più a quelle scritte da Chagall.
Solo una lacrima)
"In the dark of the night, it seemed to me that there were not only smells, but a whole flock of blessings, breaking through the boards, flying into space."Nostalgically fixing for eternity the people and places of his past using a literary style more akin to Magical Realism than factual reporting, he imbues both his characters and the objects and landscapes around them with a vivacious life proper of his whimsical, surrealist paintings."...Papa dozed over the table, the lamp rested and the chairs grew bored..."If you like Chagall's art, you'll love this book; if you don't, reading his autobiography might just help you see Chagall's art with new eyes.http://art.cherryjeffs.com/art--creat...
Vincent Van Gogh, Abidin Dino, Bedri Rahmi Eyüboğlu gibi ressamların mektuplarını okuduktan sonra ressamların yazdıkları metinlerin de edebi açıdan iyi olması gerektiğine dair bir yargım var. Chagall'ın biyografisi ise edebi açıdan kötü, resimlerini daha iyi anlamak ve hayatına tanıklık yapmak açısından iyi.
Att vara ung och längta till Paris, we've all been there.
Här drömmer den unge Chagall om att ta sig ifrån den trista, vitryska lilla orten (med judisk härkomst var det knappt möjligt att ens resa till Sankt Petersburg) och ägna sig åt konsten, inte åt att bli "a clerk or an accountant" enligt moderns önskemål:"But a word as fantastic, as literary, as out of this world as the word 'artist' - yes, perhaps I had heard it but in my town no one ever pronounced it.""You know, my parents, I'm already a different man - sad and disillusioned of many things!But enough!
A poetic autobiography unlike any I've read before. It's an interesting insight into Chagall as a person and artist (emphasis on the latter) but also - with so much time that has now elapsed - into the state of Russia/Soviet Union and Europe during the early part of his life.He wrote this in 1922, when he still had another 60+ years to live and one wonders what a sequel would have looked like.Wonderful, simple drawings by Chagall illustrate the book.
This was written when Marc Chagall's life was not even half over, so if you are wanting to find out about his whole life -- especially his work in the international art world -- this will not satisfy. On the other hand, this is his own voice, with lots of stories about his childhood and youth in Vitebsk and discovery of Paris -- plus it is illustrated with his own pen-and-ink drawings. Worth a read, but not a thorough study. He kind of wanted to be a poet -- but his paintings are way better!
Sürrealist ressam Marc Chagall hiç bıkmadan seveceğim, renklerine mi tablolarındaki insanların uçuşuna mı kapılacağımı şaşırdığım benim için ayrı bir kefeye koyduğum nadide insanlardandır. Bu kitabı da hayatının üçte birini kapsayan bir otobiyografisi. Ben ki biyografi okumayı sevmediğimden mektup ve otobiyografileri daha çok önemsiyorum. 35 yaşındayken yazdığı bu kitapta onun çocukluğunu kendi dilinden dinlemek inanılmaz heyecan vericiydi. Belki sürrealizm söz konusu olunca biraz daha otomatik yazım beklemiş olabilirim ama böyle de güzeldi.. Renkli basımla kitapta sözü geçen resimleri ekleyebilselerdi daha keyifli bir baskı olabilirdi. Sonuç olarak, ben Marc Chagall'ı sevdiğim için kitabı sevdiğimi düşünüyorum sizi bilmem.
Máte-li rádi Chagallovy obrazy, budete z knihy nadšeni. Máte-li rádi Chagalla, budete ho mít ještě raději. Neznáte-li tohoto nádherného umělce, je to kniha pro vás. Chagall malíř je skvělý, ale jako průvodce po vlastním životě je výborný.
Chagall 97 yaşında veda etmiş dünyaya; ama otuzlu yaşlarında (36) otobiyografisini yazmış. Yani ironik ve fakat sempatik bir yazım olmuş:)
I loved this book. He wrote like he painted. Whimsical, magical, poetic.
Well, it was one of those selfbiographies who disappoint you because you see that your myth is real, it's alive and it's... just a human as you, he suffers like you, he ages like you, he goes to the bathroom like you. It's interesting to see how one of your favourite artist became who he is, on the other side I have the feeling that beside incredibly gifted for painting, he was just like me and my neighbour. And I haven't yet decided if this should comfort of discomfort me.
Отличная книга, прочитав ее просто невозможно не влюбиться в картины Шагала. Как написал сам Шагал: "Писал эти страницы как краски по холсту. Если бы на моих картинах был кармашек, я бы положил их туда..." Эту книгу можно использовать как лекарство для души, она буквально пропитана любовью к родному городу, к близким людям, к жизни. А образы такие яркие и поэтичные, что не перестаешь удивляться как в простых явлениях жизни можно увидеть столько красоты.
Chagall's autobiography is almost as hallucinatory and psychedelic as his art work: vibrant, optimistic, and mystical. I loved reading this account of his life, from his childhood in a conservative Jewish family in Russia to his poor years in Paris to the loving relationship he maintained with his wife Bella.
Для меня посещение выставки Шагала в Нью Йорке совпало с прочтением этой книги. Надо сказать, что на картины в этот раз я взглянула совсем другими глазами. Его разнообразный символизм стал гораздо понятнее. Книга, написанная неповторимым стилем, полна самобытности и мудрости.
It's interesting to see how Chagall become more and more confident in himself and finally got rid of self doubt and all that.
It helps to understand those symbols used in his work (when I'm trying to write an essay about him).
I'm more interested in his life after the second world war broke out as a Jewish artist though.
The book is just like his paintings, full of childhood fantasies.
But still I get to know most of the background well enough to understand how he became who he was.
Not sure if it is a nicely-written book in terms of literature but I like it.
Kaip baigėsi, kai Lunačarskis 1918 m. paskyrė Chagallą vadovauti Spalio revoliucijos minėjimo vizualikos kūrimui:„Taigi visi šitie meistrai, seniai barzdočiai, kaip ir jų pameistriai, ėmėsi darbo - kopijuoti mano karves ir arklius. Ir štai spalio 25-ąją, pučiant revoliucijos vėjui, visame mieste ant kiekvieno kampo sūpavosi mano įvairiaspalviai gyvūnai. O pro šalį žygiavo darbininkai, giedodami „Internacionalą“. Matydamas jų besišypsančius veidus, aš buvau tikras, kad jie mane supranta. Tačiau vadovybė, komunistai, regis, buvo ne tokie jau patenkinti. Kodėl karvė yra žalia ir kodėl arklys skrieja padange, kodėl?“ / p. 173-174
Although I don't exactly adore Chagall's paintings, he has always seemed like an interesting individual and this autobiographical book confirms it. It shows the struggles of a growing artist in a harsh world which becomes even harder during war times. Sometimes shocking, other times beautiful, this is a must read for any artist out there. I have new found respect for the man since reading it.
Chagall paints his life with words as he does in pictures. Gathering dreams and memories by their subjective associations, he transforms feelings into colours. Humanity, love, and the soul all demand to be heard in his personal language.
Written by Chagall in the 1920s in Moscow, when he was 35 years old, and illustrated with his sketches and drawings. It’s a short, charming, whimsical, diary-like autobiography of his younger life. He wrote very much like he painted.
Poetic, dreamlike and often humorous meandering through Chagall’s early life.
Lovely
Like his pictures, each page full of wonder, dream and mystery
Открыла для себя Шагала не только как гениального художника, но и тонко участвующего человека. Пронзительно. Затрагивает душу.
Looking back on it now, I can’t think of very many other modernist artists who have written significant personal biographies, let alone one which is so revealing about the source of much of his inspiration.But it’s only half his story, quite literally: this little book was written in 1922, but the author would go on living and working and painting until 1985, so it’s really only the story of his youth.
His writing, like his art, is a coherent universe unto itself.
but knew he had to paint."will God or someone give me the power to breathe my sigh into my canvases, the sigh of prayer and sadness, the prayer if salvation, of rebirth?"He describes the process by which he must leave the town of his birth:"but I felt that if I stayed in Witebsk any longer, I should be covered with hair and moss.
Stay on your own with your herrings!"And off to Paris he went.
"I even wanted to invent a holiday of some kind," he said, "just to go home."I'm so glad he stayed.
I'd be lying if I said this was an easy book to get through but it was worth the effort.
I didn't understand where he was coming from a fair bit of the time but then I am not a brilliant artist so that is probably why.
I am so very interested in his life and this was another insight into the incredible mind of the younger Chagall from the horses mouth so to speak.
It has spurred me to delve further and to read Bella's book and, if I can find it, the book written by his partner ( in between marriages) .
So much to learn.
How often do you find an autobiography written by an artist himself that comes complete with illustrations? I got fascinated by Chagall's works after seeing his piece on the ceiling of Opéra Garnier and liked them for their whimsicality. I enjoyed reading his words, it was nice to find that they evoke a similar vibe as his paintings even after going through a translation. Also given the nature of this book it was an interesting perspective from which one could get a better understanding the artist!
A wonderful read - all about Chagall's early life in Witebsk in the 1890's, through his art education in St. Petersburg, Moscow and Paris, to his return to Witebsk and his work in art and theater there after WWI and the Russian Revolution. Chagall writes the same way he paints. Emotions, Impressions, Exclamations!, Everyday Mysticism, Angles and Colors in Loaves of Bread and Bottles of Wine. On many occasions he introduces us through his prose to characters that inhabit his paintings, which I found delightful. Many black and white engravings and drawings illuminate passages.
This book is written in such a rambling style that it reminds me of Chagall's paintings. Another reviewer says the style is like that of a child and I agree. No explanations, no topical connections between paragraphs or sections, just: this happened and this happened. It' certainly interesting to read about his life in his own words, but a bit hard to follow. Now I'd like to read a really good biography about him.
I felt disappointed with this book by famous painter Marc Chagall. I had expected an autobiography, but the work was something more like a collection of loose notes about his feelings. Besides, the title is not very exact - Chagall died when he was 97 and this work was first published when the author was 35.
