https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31314.Barnyard_Dance
Having read this book again...I'm stunned again by its poignancy.
The cows...why do they dance?
It keeps me up at night--which is probably not the point of the book.However, as in most books, I am faced with a glaring lack of citations.
I have no way of knowing if there is actually a dance in the barnyard.
We're supposed to just accept her assertions that there is some sort of ancient bowing ritual going on in the barnyard.
And as a historian, I just cannot without a valid primary source documentation.Although I enjoyed the book, the omission of any careful research lost it that final star.
If you are not reading this with a southern accent and a country western cadence, you need to hang up your kiddy lit! Great little book for kids - I had so much fun reading it to my kids when they were little. Heard someone on a plane recently reading it to her young son, and I wanted to grab it and give it the umph it deserves. But I resisted - all part of growing up I guess...
I love anything Sandra Boynton has done...nice 'break' from some of the 'heavy' books I am reading.
Is a true romp of a board book, with cartoon farm animals that are wacky enough to make you laugh out loud, and rhymes clever enough to sustain those nearly infinite re-readings: "Stand with the donkey / Slide with the sheep / Scramble with the little chicks - cheep cheep cheep!" Now, here's a woman who really knows how to use an active verb.
Fresh and buoyant, these books are good, clean fun.
Fresh, buoyant and good clean fun are exactly how I would describe this board book.
3/7/2011:This book was your very first favorite book! Your dad and I decided that you probably liked it because of the rhythm and you could follow and bounce along to it. For several months, this was required daily reading. As you got older, you started pointing at the animals. By the time this one fell out of the daily required reading regimen, the top part of the cover was torn and folded. However, you'd be hardpressed to find a book that was better-loved for teething.
My son looooved this when he was 2! Great memories.
An adorable board book that is more entertaining if read in a rhythmic tone. The barnyard animals are having a dance using a majority of the normal movements of the animals. This adorable book is not only a good way to teach your child about animals but about the sounds that they make as well. The illustrations are simple and fun to look at because the animals on each page are busy doing their dances.
Anyone familiar with Boynton's books will recognize the animals here doing various dance steps.
The great thing about Boynton's books are that the animals are easily recognizable from book to book for the kids, but she can make subtle changes in their expressions which make adults smile as well.
(Check out the look on the sheep's face as he has to "twirl with the pig".) Once you are fairly familiar with this book (which won't take long because your little one will want to hear it over and over again), it will be fun to act out with your child.
Spinning, bowing, strutting--you'll get a workout!
Looks like a lot of fun for a toddler story time. Wish I had seen this for my last Lap Time program. 9/25/12Worked quite well at Lap Time. I used it again in Story Time- since I had a younger crowd and had the children\toddlers stand up and act it out, which was a grand success. 9/18/13Used again for both Lap Time and Story Time and then played the song from the Rhinoceros Tap: 15 Seriously Silly Songs CD.
Sandra Boynton, Barnyard Dance! (Workman Publishing, 1993)More fun, musically-inclined Boynton, though there's a piece or two of this where the rhythm is such that you might not get it on the first try unless you're familiar with the two-step—might want to give it a quick read-over yourself before launching into it with the kiddies. But like everything Boynton puts out, it's fun, engaging, stands up to repeated readings, and you'll enjoy it as much as the kids do. ***
Sandra Boynton, Barnyard Dance! (Workman Publishing, 1993)More fun, musically-inclined Boynton, though there's a piece or two of this where the rhythm is such that you might not get it on the first try unless you're familiar with the two-step—might want to give it a quick read-over yourself before launching into it with the kiddies. But like everything Boynton puts out, it's fun, engaging, stands up to repeated readings, and you'll enjoy it as much as the kids do. *** ½
Sandra Boynton is a master at getting people physically involved in reading her books. (Literally) - these are just great fun to act out as you read them to your kids. Laughter is pretty much guaranteed. I think this is the best of the Boynton books, and I have them all.
All the barnyard animals gather for a dance party! Because they do!Another fun frolic from Sandra Boynton, the master of rhythm and rhyme and toddler appeal. What else is there to say? (Except that this one isn't from our personal collection -- thanks, Nana's house.)
This book would only be better if it was a barnyard dance with baby farm animals.
indio loves this book and can't get enough of emil's country singing. makes you want to get up and square dance!
Fun! My little one seems to really enjoy this one and I like reading aloud in a bit of a sing-song way like I'm calling a barn dance ;-)
My children love this book. They get up and follow along with the dancing in the story. It is really wonderful.
Boynton is wonderful! 'Nuff said.
So much fun for storytimes with the under 3 crowd!
This is my favorite Sandra Boynton book! We have loved this one over the years. Glad to still be able to read it to other little ones.
What can I say? These books are growing on me.
Excuse me, I'm going off to find some farm animals to square dance with.
Each time we read it, it elicits the same reaction from her--an immediate dance session that leaves her dizzy and delighted.
The only con: it's difficult to dance and read at the same time.
I have a hard time showing her the pictures and the writing since she's so busy dancing.
And since I'm dancing with her, our height disparity makes it hard for us to share the book (I just can't keep it eye-level with both of us).
Ultimately, I end up holding the book so it faces her and is at her height while I crook my neck and squint from above--an uncomfortable experience.
We have loved our songbooks by Sandra Boynton - both Philadelphia Chickens and Rhinoceros Tap: 15 Seriously Silly Songs have gotten some serious bedtime play in our house and I can sing most of the songs by heart. So when I saw this board book, I knew what to expect, since the song is included on Rhinoceros Tap: 15 Seriously Silly Songs. It's a fun and colorful way to share this humorous song together, and introduce younger children to the wonders of Boynton's characters.
Barnyard Dance by Sandra Boyton is so much fun!
This story is what is says barnyard animals dancing.
The animals in this story are just having a great time dancing.
After reading the story we get up and read it again only this time we do what the animals are doing.
The kids love to get up and dance with the animals.
I don't think there is a lesson to be learned in this story except sometimes you need to get silly and have a little fun!
This is good to read to students when they are getting restless.
I thoroughly enjoy reading this book in my classrooms.
I have mostly read it to infants, but also tried it with preschoolers once and they loved it!
When I read it, I use a silly voice during the entire book and I make an actual song out of the lyrics.
I always hear a country, line dance type melody in my head when I read it, so after singing each page, I make a banjo-type melody, the same one each time.
We allowed them to get up and dance their hearts out and they wanted to hear the story again and again!

And I had my group of preschoolers dance along as the book told them to.
By the end of the session, my group had grown from about 3 or 4 kids to almost the entire preschool class, everyone dancing along as I read the book (though I did have to teach them [with a little guesswork on my part] how to "promenade." Kind of a big word for a book like this).
In any case, the fact that it was parlayed into such a fun time for those kids is proof enough to me that it's a really good book for that age group.
I would choose this book for a literature collection geared toward preschoolers and kindergarten. I loved this book as a child, and I recall it well although I was very young when I last read it. I love the idea of a book with rhythm and I think that is what sets this book aside from many others, as it is easier and more enjoyable for children to follow a book with rhythm.
Some Boynton books are too silly or seem forced, but this one is full of whimsy and sing song text! I love to read it aloud to my grandchildren.
to be sung with a twang, for some reason
