https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6727763-radheya
“मृतयंजय” वाचलयानंतर “राधेय” घेतलं, ती चूकच महणायची! “राधेय” सुरु केलं आणि पहिली गोषट परकरषाने जाणवली ती महणजे ओघवती, सहजसुंदर भाषा. “मृतयंजय” जर संथ नदी, तर “राधेय” एक खळखळता निरझर! पण वाटलं नवहतं की चांगलया गोषटींची यादी इथेच संपेल महणून. वाचताना घटनाकरमाची विसंगती सतत डोकयात येत राहते. ओघवती भाषा सोडली, तर पुसतकात फार काही नाही, असं सतत वाटत राहतं. करण-शोणामधला जिवहाळा यात नाही, करण-वृषाली यांचयातलं नाजूक परेम फुलताना दिसत नाही. करण-दुरयोधन, करण-अशवतथामा कोणतीच नाती देसाईंनी फुलवणयाचा परयतन क
“मृत्यंजय” वाचल्यानंतर “राधेय” घेतलं, ती चूकच म्हणायची!
“राधेय” सुरु केलं आणि पहिली गोष्ट प्रकर्षाने जाणवली ती म्हणजे ओघवती, सहजसुंदर भाषा.
“मृत्यंजय” जर संथ नदी, तर “राधेय” एक खळखळता निर्झर!
वाचताना घटनाक्रमाची विसंगती सतत डोक्यात येत राहते.
ओघवती भाषा सोडली, तर पुस्तकात फार काही नाही, असं सतत वाटत राहतं.
कर्ण-शोणामधला जिव्हाळा यात नाही, कर्ण-वृषाली यांच्यातलं नाजूक प्रेम फुलताना दिसत नाही.
कर्ण-दुर्योधन, कर्ण-अश्वत्थामा कोणतीच नाती देसाईंनी फुलवण्याचा प्रयत्न केला नाही असं जाणवतं.
सावंतांच्या कर्णापुढे हा राधेय नेहमीच अर्धा-अधुरा वाटेल… “मृत्यंजय” मधलं थरारक युद्धवर्णन यात नाही, भावनांची घालमेलही नाही.
बरेचशे महत्वाचे प्रसंग देसाईंनी केवळ एका परिच्छेदात लपेटून टाकले!
“मृत्यंजय” वाचलं असेल, तर “राधेय” उचलण्यात अर्थ नाही!
I've always been fascinated with the character of Karna.
Mrutyunjaya is the most famous book in Marathi literature abouve Karna.
However, somehow, the self narration style puts me off.One fine day, I noticed this book in the pile of books at my uncle's place.
I picked it up and started reading when I read the author's name.
I couldn't put it down before finishing it.The book is spellbinding, albeit a bit melodramatic at times.
Even Ranjit Desai himself hails it as his greatest work.Must read for a Marathi reader.
This is one of the best novels I've read, Marathi or otherwise.
By painting a picture of Karna’s journey, Desai states that while there is nothing wrong in wanting to win, one must be prepared to accept defeat as well.The story of Karna, the immortal character from The Mahabharata, has time and again been a matter of interest to all modern writers.
This novel is based on Karna's life, and the author, Ranjeet Desai, is an accomplished and authentic writer of ancient and historical events.In this book, he has portrayed Karna's individuality and his circumstances and resultant compulsion to fight for what’s right.
Reading this book is like witnessing Mahabharata from karna's point of view. Loved this book. Surely one of my favourite.
Karna!!!unfold Beutifully!!
महाभारत असा गरंथ आहे की परतयेक जण वेगवेगळया पदधतीने इनतेरपरेत करू शकतो . शिवाजी सावंत यांचे मृतुनजय वाचलया नंतर राधेय वाचयला घेतले पण दोनी पण पुसतकां मधये करणचया बाजूने soft corner निरमाण केला आहे. हे पुसतक उलटे चालू होते कारण आपण पहिले भागतो की पाच पांडव जे कोणी वीर जे तयांचे नातवाईक होते तयांचे अनतीमसंसकर करत आहेत आणि तेवहा कुंती तयांना सांगते करणा बददल आणि तयाचा नंतर आपण आपलयाला करणाचा परवास भगयाला मिळतो. तयाचे आणि विदुरचे नाते . तयाचे आणि कृषणाचे नाते. तुमही जर मृतुनजय वाचले असेल तर हया पुसत
शिवाजी सावंत यांचे मृतुन्जय वाचल्या नंतर राधेय वाचयला घेतले पण दोनी पण पुस्तकां मध्ये कर्णच्या बाजूने soft corner निर्माण केला आहे.
हे पुस्तक उलटे चालू होते कारण आपण पहिले भागतो की पाच पांडव जे कोणी वीर जे त्यांचे नातवाईक होते त्यांचे अन्तीमसंस्कर करत आहेत आणि तेव्हा कुंती त्यांना सांगते करणा बद्दल आणि त्याचा नंतर आपण आपल्याला करणाचा प्रवास भ्गयाला मिळतो.
त्याचे आणि विदुरचे नाते .
त्याचे आणि कृष्णाचे नाते.
तुम्ही जर मृतुन्जय वाचले असेल तर ह्या पुस्तका मध्ये विशेष असे वेगळे काहीच नाही आहे .
तुम्हाला जर पुर्णपणे नवीन काही तरी वाच्याचे आहे महाभारता बद्दल तर तुम्ही पर्व वाचले पाहिझे.
Rating for the Book, but too many mistakes Please note that this rating is for the Book. I found this book to be extremely heart touching, especially towards the end. But there are too many mistakes in the ebook. This kills all the emotion when you are reading it. I appreciate that we are getting book in out local languages but if they are with these many mistakes then it does not serve the purpose. Due to mistakes in ebook, sometimes it is hard to know what the author has to say.
One of the best book i have ever read. Aptly described the Karna. Personally i felt that this book lacked 2 things : 1) no elaborative and extensive description of Karna's "Daan-dharma" and 2) post death description of karna. When kunti reveals the truth of Karna's birth to pandava. Must read book. Recommended to read this book in Marathi, hindi and gujarati only.
Got an opportunity to revisit the Mahabharata from an unusual view of RADHEYA!! The pain n sufferings of KARNA even being a powerful person were heart touching!! The Person who gave others till his last breath!!! A true GIVER!! After reading this book understood the true meaning of DANSHOOR KARNA!!
A different take on the Mahabharat as seen through the eyes of Karna, emphasizing events that lead to his eventual defeat while completely glossing over others that are considered key in the regular narration of the Mahabharat but unimportant to his life story. The author trades in magical surrealism in the fights between demi gods for more practical explanations, making for a better narrative.
Better book than Mrityunjay.
Simply awesome!Book start with simple statement that look inside of you and you will find "Karna". I don't remember how many times I cried but really heart touching meaning of life!
Karna is a fascinating character. Enjoyed reading this book(Marathi)and found it a bit daunting, initially. Wish it was in English.
Karna navyane kalala...
This book is 'Mahabharat from Karna's perspective'.
Simple language & well written by the author!
#Karna...#Angaraj...#Radheya...#RESPECT.. :)
Always been an admirer of Ranjit Desai.Takes me to those days where things are justified on a dharma paradigm
amzng book............. radheya smtms shows the way of life smtms gives imprtnce of giving.............
This book introduces us really new side of mighty Karna, to understand Karna some one must go through this book
This book is amazing, one of the best book I have read in marathi.I think every one who loves 'Mahabharata' should read this.
loved it.
Disappointed!This book does not reflect the true might of Ranjit Desai's penmanship.
It seems that the author has written it half-heartedly just for the sake of it.
Many important incidents have been mentioned lightly and some have been missed completely.
What could have been a great story has turned out to be a one time read novel of no particular excitement.What is more disappointing is the quality of editing.
There are a number of grammatical errors and innumerable spelling mistakes!
Half the sentences are missing in many places.I was very excited about reading this book but it did not live up to its expectations.
तुमचयाकडे संवेदनशील मन असेल तर तुमही रडणार हे मातर नककी.
तुमच्याकडे संवेदनशील मन असेल तर तुम्ही रडणार हे मात्र नक्की.
अपरतिम...!!!
अप्रतिम...!!!
Best book i had ever read What is duty, What is sacrificationWhat is selflessness Value of word Awsome Book The first page will motivate you to read the whole book
Great book. But after reading Mrutyunjay, it feels incomplete.
It's my first book on 'Karna'..the writer made it a story..you can visualise each n every word of the book and I think it's a success of the writer.. When you will start with it you can't stop till the book gets over..and after reading this book you might feel like you watched a movie on 'Karna'.. If you want information on 'Karna' then I will never recommend this book but if you want to enjoy a story of 'Karna' then it's a good choice.. Nice one..
curious
