https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16117911-el-rey-de-hierro
"During his reign, France was a great country, and the French were the most miserable of all people." George R.R. Martin has apparently called The Accursed Kings, a seven-book historical novel series by Maurice Druon, 'the original game of thrones'. Which pretty much means that soon everyone and their grandma will be reading these.  Well, for once I'm the cool kid (ahem, I mean, nerdy overachiever, of course) who can say - Well, I first read these books years ago, having spent every penny of my
I *inhaled* these books (figuratively) at the age of 11, completely entranced by the fascinating world of historical intrigue, for the first time having realized that history is not just the boring collection of dates, names and battles - that the wheel of history can be turned by people who are very much unaware of the overarching implications of their actions and scheming.-----------This book, the first in the Accursed Kings series, drops the reader smack into the middle of French palace intrigues that surrounded the last year (1314) of the reign of Philippe IV (a.k.a. Philippe the Fair - as in 'pretty', and not 'just') - and into the thick of the events that eventually precipitated the Hundred Years' War between England and France.
“It must be admitted that such things were common coin of the period. Kingdoms were often handed over to adolescents, whose absolute power fascinated them as might a game. Hardly grown out of the age in which it is fun to tear the wings from flies, they might now amuse themselves by tearing the heads from men. Too young to fear or even imagine death, they would not hesitate to distribute it around them.”  Philippe IV, the Fair, of FrancePhilip IV, known as Philip the Fair, came to the throne at
Knowing Queen Isabella, as I’ve come to know her under the guiding hand of Druon, I can only imagine how much stewing, plotting, and conniving she will be doing with the hope of seeing her son in her father’s chair despite the stipulations by the Salic Law. I have stretched out the history, giving everyone some of the lead up to the events in this novel and also flashed forward a bit to see where things will be going.
If you don’t like Game of Thrones you might just love this series.
In this novel we are presented with a few episodes at the end of the life of the King of France Philippe IV (1268-1314), le Bel. As his epithet indicates, he was a man considered of great beauty, if of a cold and inexorable beauty.
As a solution to his financial problems he expelled the Jews--again much before Queen Isabel and King Fernando did the same in Castile and Aragón-- while also expropriating them.
But death for the beautiful king before he could succeed in this.To the end of the Templars Druon intertwines another episode in this novel which provides plenty of dramatic feed: the scandal of the Nesle Tower.
So, this is being marketed as "the original Game of Thrones". With blurbs and a new introduction from George R.R. Martin himself. What an eye-catching endorsement! I was sold.Well, yes and no. It's actually quite different than GoT. But at the same time, I can see where it's an influence on Martin's story. Not the only one, but it's certainly there.That said, it's quite an enjoyable novel. It has held up well over time (published in 1955 originally) and survived translation (from French). It moved at a quick pace and was quite compelling.
The main problem wasn't the subject, which is a truly fascinating one, a complex and interesting period in European history, peopled by intriguing and extreme characters, the problem throughout was the writing style, which alternated between a dreary monologue of facts, and imaginary conversations which never engaged and were, at times, simply bizarre.
The only thing I can say in its defence is that it is thorough, if you love this particular period of history, and, maybe, if you're a younger reader, this might work for you.It's not often I don't finish a book I'm intending to review.

Even without GRRM's glowing recommendation, I'm always up for good historical fiction, especially books involving European monarchies and the Middle Ages.The Iron King is a fascinating take on the events which preceded and led up to arguably one of the most significant conflicts of the medieval period, The Hundred Years' War. King Philip IV of France, called "The Iron King" because of his aloof nature and severe rule, sentences the last Grand Master of the Knights Templar Jacques de Molay to burn at the stake.
The Iron King is set in 1314, the year in which the Trial of the Templars reached its conclusion, and the French court was shocked by the Tower of Nesle affair.
In the first part of the book the last phase of the Trial of the Templars takes center-stage.
The second phase of the book centers on the Tower of the Nesle affair, the last part is about the curse of the Templars (hence The Accursed Kings) and the Lombards’ efforts to escape persecution.The reason for the bad review is not that nothing happens in this book; it’s because the book isn’t written in anything resembling an engaging style.
4,5/5Une excellente lecture, pleine d'intrigues et de conspirations. L'Histoire comme un roman, passionnante et vivante !
Espectacular, increíble la manera de escribir de este autor. Te deja con ganas de más. Incluso a los que no les gusta la historia les va a encantar. Cuando termine los 7 hago una evaluación como corresponde, ahora es imposible.
No me resisto a un libro de historia bien contado.Cuando los encuentro me pregunto por qué los profes del colegio no enseñan historia así.Un libro muy bien contado acerca del reinado de Felipe "el hermoso" y la maldición que recibió de los templarios.El ser humano ha estado dañado siempre, el poder, la ambición y la crueldad han sido parte de la historia desde que el hombre es protagonista de ella.Esta colección de siete libros es super recomendada para los amantes de la historia.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Simplemente, una delicia de lectura.
The title of the book, “The Iron King” refers to Philip IV (Philip the Fair), the King of France who has a fiery temper.
Meanwhile, the Iron King’s sons—Louis, King of Navarre and Charles, are being cuckolded by their cheating wives—Marguerite and Blanche.
Worst of all, the cheating scandal is revealed to Isabella, the Iron King’s daughter and sister to the cuckolded husbands.
Even though Isabella is married to a homosexual husband, the King of England Edward II and scarcely happy in her private life herself, she seeks Robert’s help in getting evidence of their affairs and providing it to the King of France, her father.
Philip IV has ultimate control of his subjects and has married his daughter, Isabella, to the King of England in hopes of holding some degree of control on the other side of the Channel.
Philip has finally captured the leadership of the Knights Templar and is set to bestow the ultimate punishment, with the backing of the Church, to uphold his image as the Iron King.
With a flair for the dramatic, Druon introduces the reader to a number of characters sure to play key roles throughout the series, even if their importance is not fully known at this point.
Times like this I wish my grad-school French was up to reading the original.Nevertheless, I’m interested enough in the story – and the translation does on occasion rise to the level of excellence the story deserves – that I’ll persevere through the 2nd book – The Strangled Queen – at the very least.* As an aside: One of my favorite books about the period (the 14th century) and one I’d eagerly recommend is Barbara Tuchman’s A Distant Mirror.
The Iron King, dubbed the original Game of Thrones by George R R Martin, follows Philip the Fair at the end of the final trial for the powerful Knights of the Templar.
With any historical fiction novel you have to go into the book with a bit of knowledge of the time period to really enjoy the story.
So I advise future readers to watch a documentary about Philip the Fair before reading.
I would definitely recommend this book to fans of ASOIAF and fantasy readers (since historical fiction and fantasy are almost sister genres).
'Power is a bitter thing'An eminently readable historical novel, the first of seven, retelling the story of the Capet dynasty in medieval France.
Druon moves between the machinations of the court and the sexual intrigues of his three daughters-in-law, though both are always seen as political.There are some simplicities in language (they are there in the original French so it's not merely a translation issue) but this is historically detailed to compensate.
What it's not is a version of the Philippa Gregory historical romance with modern personalities dressed up in medieval costume.
Like many people, I decided to pick this up after GRRM's recommendation.
Well, I could spot some similarities but despite it and GRMM's claims, I really don't think A Song of Ice and Fire resembles this book.
But just like A song of Ice and fire series, this book is full of court intrigues, betrayals, gruesome executions and sex sex sex.
So I ended up enjoying this book much more than I thought I would when I started it.
It was a surprisingly light, funny and compelling read and I can't wait to lay my hands on the second book of the series!
The Accursed Kings Series Books 1-3: The Iron King, The Strangled Queen, The Poisoned Crown is a sequence of seven historical novels by French author Maurice Druon about the French monarchy in the 14th century.
The Iron King is the first book in this series which has been translated into English.
King Philip the Fair rules with an iron fist, but is surrounded by scandal and intrigue.
This is a book filled with scandal, murder, political intrigue, sex and espionage.
R. Martin called The Accursed Kings "the original game of thrones", citing Druon's novels as an inspiration for his own series A Song of Ice and Fire.I cannot wait to continue this series!
Historical fiction is at its best when it makes you curious about the people and times portrayed, and Maurice Druon captures these particular times and these complex people so well, it's hard not to be inquisitive about them once the novel is over.A Game of Thrones has rival families: The Starks and the Lannisters.
Ned is easier to like, and more personable than the more remote and dispassionate Philip, but they are two men cut from the same cloth.A Game of Thrones has a family matriarch with steel and determination in Catelyn Tully.
Dubbed by George R.R. Martin as 'the original Game of Thrones', they have recently been translated into English by Humphrey Hare and are being re-released by Harper books.I have to confess something.
I bought this book because I liked the cover.
They say you shouldn't judge a book by its cover, but with this one I did.Thankfully, I really enjoyed this story.
There were also a couple of times where the translation into English was not quite right- a baker using flower instead of flour, for example.
On the whole though, these were minor issues and I enjoyed the story very much.
Okay, so the George R.
R. Martin intro sold me a little, as he credits this with some of the inspiration for A Song of Ice and Fire.
It is interesting to pick up on the elements that Martin borrowed for his own series (the litany of names that the Templar Jacques de Molay repeatedly utters to remind himself of those who have wronged him is echoed in Arya Stark's similar repetition of the names of those whom she wishes to see dead) but The Accursed Kings is fascinating in its own right, and - hey - each book is probably less than a third as long as any of Martin's!
A fun romp through medieval France (to be specific, 1314). Recommended.For a further review: http://susannag.booklikes.com/post/83... .
This is an enjoyable and well written novel about Philippe le Bel, the Iron King and father to Isabella the so-called she-wolf of France.
Ma chronique sur le blog : https://ifmarybooks.wordpress.com/201...
It was a short book and I got a flavor for the times and a bit about the Templars.
The book is basically 3 stories that are are not well tied together; neither are some of the episodes within them.
The greed of Philip is mentioned, but it isn’t demonstrated.
The details of the entrapment are sketchy and you go a lot on bits of info.
Their story is just dropped.Even for being the first book of a trilogy, it ends inconclusively.
A near miss, but I kept my eyes open.And then I saw that Duron's full series, called "The Accursed Kings" would be re-released (by Martin's own publisher) in its entirety and...in English!I jumped at the opportunity to grab this through Amazon's Vine Program.
The first 30 pages are dense with names (a lot of princes, priests and kings of the time all had the same name) and relationships, but the story gains strength as the character qualities builds, and the plot develops.
And this isn't fantasy, this is pure historical fiction...which is really what Martin created with ASOIF, except he did it in a made up world with dragons."The Iron Kings" reads like an evolutionary fore-bearer to ASOIF.
I did find that this was marred somewhat by the factual asides that dotted the text though; I thought that these detracted from the story at times.
I feel they could have been worked into the story a little better, and that at times, they made it a harder read than it needed to be.
Having said that, there is plenty here to draw the reader in, and I will certainly read the translations of the other books in the series, maybe I will even test my Frech one day and tackle the original.
The Iron King by Maurice Druon is a historical novel that is about to be read by a large number of fantasy readers, mostly on the strength of a little quote by one George R.R. Martin on its cover.
(The fact that fantasy is being used to market historical fiction also speaks to the way popular culture has changed in the last decade or two, but that’s another discussion.)Read the entire review on my site Far Beyond Reality!
