https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/867462.The_Evolution_of_Physics
I really enjoyed the explanations given in this book.
He worked very closely with Einstien.They begin with basic mechanics and work their way through field physics, special and general relativity and then finally to quantum mechanics.
It is all explained through analogies, theories and explanation or real world experiments.
I really like a book like this that makes it much more understandable to the average Joe.Unfortunately it is dated at this point.
There has been many further advancements in both quantum physics and in planetary.
This is probably a good book to read before reading Stephen Hawking's "A Brief History of Time."
This book is so polite! Written in 1938, apparently more by Infeld than by Einstein, it is exceedingly proper and therefore delightful, as well as thorough. It is a beautiful book, very clear and precise, and should be read by all armchair physicists with a serious hankering to understand relativity theory, as well as the importance of the quantum theory.
كنز من التجارب الذهنيةتدرج الأفكار ومتى نقرر أن نظرية ما، أصبحت غير صالحةتجربة تحول الفيزياء الى درراسة بنية الحقلالفيزياء والمراجع العطالية وعلاقة كليهما بالهندسةالهيولة، الأثير، الحراة، درجة الحرارة، الطاقة، المادة، الكتلة،العالة، الثقالة، السرعة، المسافة و الزمنكتاب قمة
كتاب فيزيائي جميل ومفيد للغاية. اعجبني التسلسل الزمني للاكتشافات الفيزيائية وكيف ان كل نظرية جديدة تحل مشكلة ولكن تقدم مشاكل جديدة. فعمل الفيزيائي هو كعمل محقق من حيث وظع نظريات ودراسة الادلة ولهذا يبدو الكتاب كانه رواية بوليسية. الترجمة للغة غير لغة الكتابة الاصلية جعل بعض المصطلحات مبهمة وبالتالي جعل الكتاب الى حد ما عسير الفهم. شخصيا لم استفد كثيرا من القراءة عن النسبية وميكانيكا الكم كونها مرت علي هذا الافكار وبشكل اوضح من قبل، ولكن اعجبني مراجعة الافكار الفيزيائية الكلاسيكية كالحرارة والطاقة وكيف وجدت قديما نظريات الاثير والسيال الحراري.
Infeld could not get a permanent appointment at Princeton due to a bitter rivalry within the Physics department so he came up with the idea of writing a popular, non mathematical monograph explaining the history of physics.
The first half of the book deals with the rise and fall of classical mechanistic physics starting and the last half with relativistic and quantum physics.
Since the book was written in the 30s it does not contain any of the newer theories on such things as string theory, multiverses etc.
نحن لا نستطيع أن نبنى علما دون أن نعتقد بإمكانية إدراك الحقيقة من خلال منشآتنا النظرية ودون أن نوقن بوجود تناغم داخلى في العالم الذي نرصده. إن هذا الإيمان كان وسيظل الباعث الرئيسى لكل إبداع علمي. فمن خلال كل مجهوداتنا، نلمح الطموح إلى الفهم والايمان الراسخ بتناغم عناصر الوجود ، ذلك الايمان الصامد أمام كل العقبات التى تحول دون إدراك الحقيقة.
Bu kitabı 1995 civarında arkadaşım İnanç'tan almıştım ve o zamandan beri Ankara'da annemlerdeki kütüphanede bekledi.
İlk okuduğum popüler bilim kitabı Carl Sagan'ın Kozmos'unu da ondan almıştım ama bu kitabı bir biçimde okumaktan korktum.
Bu yılbaşında gözüme ilişince sahibine geri vermek üzere aldım ve okudum.
Birçok yerinde FL'de öğrendiğim konuları anımsamak ve o zamanlar anlamadığım bazı şeyleri anlamak güzel olduysa da, hâlâ ilişkinlik/görelilik/relativite kuramını anlamış değilim.
Ama bu iki büyük bilim adamının oturup bizlere böyle açıklayıcı bir kitap yazma işine girşimiş olmaları takdire şâyân.
Sonunda verilen bazı kavramların Türkçe ve Osmanlıcasını veren sözlüğün fotolarını çektim.
Biraz daha bilimsel kitap okumaya karar verdim.
Science finds mystery intolerable, religion treasures it.Without a single mathematical equation, Einstein presents the established thought about the relationship between things from the time of Galileo up to quantum mechanics at the time the book was written in 1938.
In following the pursuit of ether, Einstein is at his best explaining the concept and exactly why it was thought necessary, referring back to sound and even further back to objects subject to forces acting on them.Throughout the book, the theory of relativity is never far from view.
The universe was an elaborate mechanism that ran like a clockwork.What Einstein discovered is that there is only one thing fixed, the speed of light.
In my mind, this book is more about psychology or cognition rather than physics.
More precisely, this book is about how human "create" knowledge and the nature of reality.
The "scientific" concepts are artificially created to, and only to, classify unrelated events that only make sense to your corner case reference system.
It is not knowledge itself but only the form of evolution of knowledge can give us a hit of reality.
well..that's just my interpretation..maybe I'm wrong but this is definitely the book you have to read if you're desperate to understand physics or mind..or are they different?
تاریخ علم فیزیک از زبان اینشتین شنیدن دارد.
این کتاب به ما میآموزد که مفاهیم علمی به چه شکلی در مواجههی ما با طبیعت و برای فهم بهتر آن تولید میشوند و رشد میکنند.
ضمنا نظریات فیزیکی در همین دویست سیصد سال اخیر چقدر عوض شدهاند و در یک روند رشدی چقدر از مفاهیم و نظریات به کناری ریخته شدهاند.این کتاب برای آشنایی مفهومی و فارغ از ریاضی با نظریات فیزیکی از زمان نیوتن تا زمان خود اینشتین هم خوب است.نکتهی جالب این که حتی یک نام هم از اینشتین در این تاریخ نویسی نیامده در صورتی که میدانیم اینشتین در همهی
تاریخ علم فیزیک از زبان اینشتین شنیدن دارد.
این کتاب به ما می‌آموزد که مفاهیم علمی به چه شکلی در مواجهه‌ی ما با طبیعت و برای فهم بهتر آن تولید می‌شوند و رشد می‌کنند.
ضمنا نظریات فیزیکی در همین دویست سیصد سال اخیر چقدر عوض شده‌اند و در یک روند رشدی چقدر از مفاهیم و نظریات به کناری ریخته شده‌اند.این کتاب برای آشنایی مفهومی و فارغ از ریاضی با نظریات فیزیکی از زمان نیوتن تا زمان خود اینشتین هم خوب است.نکته‌ی جالب این که حتی یک نام هم از اینشتین در این تاریخ نویسی نیامده در صورتی که می‌دانیم اینشتین در همه‌ی فیزیک جدید حضور دارد.
The book is briefly and clearly explains the transition of the physical phenomenas from classical to modern area and why we should think so in order to improve our way of vision..
This book is a pretty good explanation of the history of physics, from Galileo to quantum theory. It is set out in a fairly comprehensible manner, and there are a lot of analogies used. This isn't going to help you much with exams but it's a great way to get your head round the overall structure of physics.
The book presents very good explanation of how our understanding of physics changed since the 18th century, although ,unlike what you expect from a book discussing the evolution of a certain topic, this one doesn't actually pay that much attention to names and debates, instead, it goes about experiments in an abstract manner, to a point where you can't be sure if one particular experiments was actually attempted or if it is purely hypothetical.This is one of those books that almost contain zero equations, and it succeeds, like many of these books, in communicating most of the ideas, but not all of the ideas.
One of the best books to understand the nature of physics! No need of previous scientific background.
It sat on my shelf for about two years until I recently picked it up thinking I needed a new way of seeing the world after having immersed myself in historical and cultural studies over the last few months.
It is not only good because Einstein is a master at explaining complicated physics in a way that a layman like I am can understand; the book is also good because Einstein gives a compelling portrayal of the creativity, thought experiments and testing involved in a scientific approach to reasoning.
Essentially, as Einstein explains it, modern Physics is a way of looking at problems, testing them and resolving them through scientific theory.
هذا الكتاب رغم قدمه ولكني استمتعت كثيرا بقراءته واستفدت أكثر ، أنا لا أعلم مدى مشاركة تلميذ أينشتاين
An accessible, straightforward journey through the rise and fall of various theories at the heart of physics, from Newton's time to the early 20th century era of Einstein and Infeld.
Although "rise and fall" is not quite accurate; the authors stress that new theories tend to broaden the scope of the old theories rather than upending them entirely.
Even if the reader has a firm grasp of the history of physics, this quick read also offers itself up to would-be science educators as the epitome of good pedagogy.
A summary of physics, from classical mechanics, to field theory, general relativity and quantum theory (as it was understood in 1938 when the book was first published).
The presentation is oriented towards laymen and avoids using any mathematical formulas.
The explanations of the basic ideas of physics are marvelously clear and straightforward.
2. A pioneering glimpse into a new epistemology that was later expanded by Thomas Kuhn into his famous theory of scientific revolutions via paradigm shift.
Indeed the basic ideas of that theory are clearly presented here by Einstein and Infeld almost a quarter-century before Kuhn's seminal "The Structure of Scientific Revolutions" was published.
"da Teoria da Relatividade,depreende-se que massa e energia não são senão manifestações diferentes do mesmo fenómeno,um conceito pouco familiar para uma inteligência comum.Explicando a equação E igual a mc ao quadrado,na qual a energia é igual à massa multiplicada pelo quadrado da velocidade da luz,mostra que pequenas quantidades de massa podem ser convertidas numa grande quantidade de energia,e vice-versa.A massa e a energia são,de facto,equivalentes,de acordo com a formula mencionada.Isto foi demonstrado,experimentalmente,por Cockcroft e Walton,em 1932".
باختصار: إذا أردت فهم مضمون النظرية النسبية فعليك بهذا الكتاب.
Sau đó, các ý tưởng này phải được diễn đạt dưới hình thức toán học của một lý thuyết có tính định lượng để có thể được so sánh với thực nghiệm." - Albert Einstein & Leopold Infeld, trích "Sự tiến hóa của vật lý".Đây là một quyển sách tuyệt vời, vẽ nên một bức tranh toàn cảnh về quá trình tiến hóa của Vật lý.
Bằng lập luận chặt chẽ, mô tả cụ thể, sử dụng các thí nghiệm tưởng tượng trên nền tảng logic, các hình ảnh minh họa trực quan, nhiều ví dụ và ẩn dụ sinh động, tác giả đã thành công trong việc dẫn dắt người đọc chứng kiến từng bước khởi đầu và phát triển của ngành Vật lý học.
Einstein, through this book, unfolds the intricated lines of ideas that forged what is today's physics understanding.
But the most interesting in my opinion is to learn more about the tipping points before each thought revolution.
Those periods were highly tensed from the intellectual point of view.
They reflect how difficult it can be for new and counterintuitive ideas to take root.
It is quite easy to take for granted a way of understanding any thing about and within the universe.
Excellent book!
This should be required reading for all freshman physics majors in college.
I only wish I had read this book when I first began my college program in physics and math.
This book leads the student through the thought processes, experimentation, and theoretical work that got us from the early scientific age into the modern era of physics.
Concepts with which students struggle are laid out in easy to follow discussions, preparing them for the the abstract concepts and mathematics found in modern physics.This book should be on the shelf of any student of physics.
مشاركة أينشتاين في تأليف الكتاب كافية لوحدها لجذب القاري للكتابالكتاب مختلف في طرحه للنظريات الفيزيائية فهو لا يسردها ككتب المناهج الدراسية بل يناقش الأفكار التي أوصلت العلماء لتبني هذه النظرياتكذلك يناقش المسلمات ويبين كيف تخلى عنها الفيزيائيون بعدما لم تستطيع الصمود أمام الأفكار الجديدةيعيب الكتاب ترجمة المصطلحات العلمية حيث استخدم المترجم مصطلحات لم أعهدها من قبل وكان من الأفضل لو ارفق المترجم المصطلح الإنجليزي بالعربي الذي استخدمه. الكتاب أحياناً يكون مشوق جداً وأحياناً تشعر بالملل وتارة يكون سهل الفهم وتارة أخرى يتعذر علي فهمه وبالمجمل فالكتاب أنيق ويستحق وقتك.
La dimostrazione di come non sia necessario utilizzare un linguaggio complesso e autoreferenziale per esporre argomenti complessi, e di come basti poco per far comprendere a chiunque concetti fisici alla base della Scienza moderna. Fondamentale per chiunque sia interessato all'argomento, adatto sia ai profani che agli addetti ai lavori. Un'ottima lettura consigliatami da un altrettanto ottimo insegnante di Fisica del quale conservo uno splendido ricordo. Ce ne fossero di più di docenti universitari così...!
Este é um livro realmente importante na física do século XX. Einstein explica claramente onde a relatividade se coloca diante do corpo de conhecimentos anteriores da física. Pessoalmente foi uma leitura marcante. Li pela primeira vez aos 15 anos e muitas vezes depois. Já dei o livro de presente para muitas pessoas. A clareza das explicações, a lógica, a simplicidade são o meu modelo de física bem contada.
Me encanto, la forma de explicar conceptos un tanto complicados de una manera mas sencilla. Los ejemplos que se plasman son muy digeribles, y ahí creo, que se halla la magia de este libro. Recomendado para aquellos que, desean profundizar en temas de física, desde la mecánica clásica hasta la teoría de la relatividad, adentrándose un poco mas en en el dinámico mundo de la física cuántica.
The path Einstein takes the reader down as he describes our world in ever more detail, starting with Galileo and Newton and ending with Bohr and Heisenberg, is an amazing journey eloquently relayed in plain understandable language.In my opinion, modern textbook authors could be much more effective if they followed his example.
I once read a book of essays by Einstein and the writing was horrible to follow. I have heard similar stories about Einstein's book on relativity. The book, on the other hand, was a joy to read. No doubt this is due to Einstein's co-author.
The second generation of physics. Relativity, Special Relativity and Quantum theory explained by the genus himself. A classic in the annuals of scientific literature. Must read for all who love pure science and the theory behind how our universe works.
