https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/242655.The_Orthodox_Way
I probably am placing too much emphasis on these distinctions (though that bit about the Orthodox view of Augustine blew me away), since this book is all about the beauty and truth of Orthodoxy, and not really about tearing down other Christian groups.
Ware has written another book, The Orthodox Church, which is something of a companion piece (that should probably be read first), that goes into the history of Orthodoxy.
Moreover, since I no could no longer hold to simplistic sola scriptura, I could no longer dismiss out of hand the claims of those branches of Christianity, namely the Roman Catholic and Eastern Orthodox churches, that depended upon the authority of tradition.
At the same time, I was also reading much Medieval Philosophy, and beginning to see the coherence of some of the views of Roman Catholicism.I had always thought that Roman Catholics and Eastern Orthodox believers could very well be real Christians, just as easily as any Protestant could.
Given my assumptions, I appreciate Bishop Kallistos Ware’s The Orthodox Way, which functions as a primer on Eastern Orthodoxy.
The first distinct difference surrounds the representation of God. Whereas Western Christianity remains wary of images, fearing the worship of idols, Orthodoxy distinctly focuses on symbolism.
While the core principles between Western and Orthodox tradition resemble each other, Orthodoxy varies to a slight degree.
In many ways, Ware’s explanation of Orthodoxy aligns closely with core Western theological principles surrounding the deity of Christ, the divine nature of the Trinity, and the necessity of prayer.
It has been among the most formative books in terms of spiritual formation.
While I am not Eastern Orthodox, reading this book opened my eyes to a freshness of beauty and mystery and wonder so badly needed in Western Protestantism.
The presentation of the Orthodox spirituality which embraces mystery, beauty, meditation, and experience runs counter to the rationalism of much western systematic theology.
In some ways it follows a systematic formula, but deviates regularly to bring in considerable Wisdom from the Desert Fathers and various other early theologians who are not on the radar for so many western Christians.
Without being a member, I've been studying Orthodoxy for a few years now, dipping into certain thinkers and texts--The Philokalia, namely or articles by Vincent Rossi or books by Philip Sherrard--and I find this book to be the best introduction to Orthodoxy that I've read.
While it is not as linear and systematic as "Orthodox Dogmatic Theology," that is not its aim.
If you are interested in Orthodoxy (as I am) or are already there, I recommend this book as a good learning tool.
Most in the West have little knowledge of the intricacies of the Faith (here always referred to simply as The Way, as it was called in the New Testament) of the ancient times because we have been so greatly impacted by the Schism.
In many ways, Scripture is more greatly revered because it is understood that it came to us through God's preserved Church.The Orthodox claim that they have preserved the Apostolic Faith and have also preserved Apostolic Succession through the laying on of hands over nearly 2,000 years.
What did the Church look like that Jesus left?
It looked much like the Orthodox Church we have today, operating the same way through Turkish conquest and Soviet oppression.
It's gotten to me rethink and reexamine a number of things about my Christian journey in this life, and see fundamental truths in Christianity from a different view --- that of the Eastern Church, a branch of Christianity that has existed little changed from its beginnings.
Bishop Kallistos goes into the fundamental beliefs of Orthodox Christianity, but, unlike too many Christian theologists and academics, avoids the tendencies either to turn Christianity's vitality into something dry and mind-numbingly dull ---- or to get bogged down into arcane arguments akin to "how many angels can dance on the head of a pin".
كتاب "الطريق الارثوذكسى" هو كتاب يدعوك فيه الأب كاليستوس وير الى مصاحبته والسير معه فى رحلة ممتعة فى طريق الارثوذكسية ولن تكونا وحدكما بل سيصحبكما رفيقا ثالثا وهو الله نفسه. بعد كل فصل سيظهر لك روعة الارثوذكسية وجمال اللاهوت الشرقى فى فهم الله. كتاب قيم اشكر الله على تدبير قراءته لفهم اكثر لارثوذكسية اعمق لم اسبر غورها بعد. شكر خاص لبيت التكريس و د/ نصحى عبد الشهيد لاختياره الموفق فيما يجب ترجمته.
No review because I didn't finish it. I probably won't end up reading this for a long time due to the recent comments on gay marriage by the author Met. Kallistos Ware. It wasn't the comments that made me weary of reading this, but stuff I learned by those that were already distrustful of him. Met. Ware apparently makes crypto nestorian remarks in a few of the chapters which as a person still very new into the theology of Orthodoxy I'd rather not read and get influenced into heresy. When I'm more theologically sound I will definitely visit this.
A wonderful book about Orthodox theology, spirituality, and mysticism.
"Advancing along the way God is evermore intimate and evermore distant" -- also very true.
I love Ware's distinction between the image and the likeness of God: "The image is man's potentiality for life in God" "The likeness of God is the realization of that potentiality" The first is for earth.
"The only secure basis for a doctrine of human dignity and liberty is the belief that, truly, all people are made in God's image." "On Friday, the victory of the crucifixion is hidden, on Sunday, it is revealed." This life has been given to you for repentance.
What first caught my attention was the fact that Ware starts his book with a chapter called "God as Mystery." (The latter chapters are similarly titled, such as "God as Trinity" and "God as Man.").
Starting with a discussion of God as Mystery, Ware shows a great deal of humility when it comes to talking about that which is Other.
That being said, Ware is certainly an authority and goes on to eloquently explain the difficult contours of the Trinity and Jesus, the God-man.In my experience, I've had no better explanation of the Trinity and Jesus' two natures than in this book.
This book is so accessible to people who want to learn more about Orthodoxy but are outside of the Orthodox tradition, like myself (a former evangelical, sometimes liturgical, though rarely church-attending Protestant).Above all things, the book gave me great hope.
But at the same time, the popularity of the movement speaks to a very real growing disillusionment among Protestant Christians that can't be dismissed.The hope I found was the discovery of a tradition that offers alternative beliefs to many of the uneasy aspects of Protestantism, and Western theology in general (many of which put people off Christianity for life), such as beliefs about original sin, conversion, mystical experience, heaven and hell, and salvation.
This book was a practical breakdown of complicated ideas; certain things were redundant (that might just be my filter), but one things I did really enjoy were the quotes from different people at the end of each chapter.
Excellent, pastoral, overview. Steers clear of controversial doctrines and focuses on the spirituality of Orthodoxy.
Excellent articulation of the Orthodox faith and of the meaning of mystery. Very enlightening.
I read this book for the catechumen class at the Orthodox church that I attend. This book talks about the more mystical side of the Christian faith which is found in Orthodox Christianity.
This is a wonderful and exquisite distillation of basic Eastern Orthodox belief and spirituality (or, I would argue, "orthodox," as there are definite affinities between Orthodoxy and other Christian traditions and theologies such as Arminianism). Kallistos Ware frequently gleans wisdom from past saints such as the Church Fathers and modern theologians. Highly recommended!
An excellent introduction to the Orthodox faith. I’ll definitely be delving further into the other texts quoted in here.I should add, I’m not from the Orthodox tradition. However much of it’s theology appeals and resonates deeply with me.—Tristan Sherwin, author of *Love: Expressed*
I found this book to be most enlightening regarding tenets of the Orthodox Church.
I felt the need to search other sources for his views on women in the Orthodox Church because I found few women leaders/theologians/pastors mentioned anywhere in this book.
I know that there were women in the early church who were important to Jesus Christ and His followers.The author, Bishop Kallistos Ware believes that "Christianity is a liturgical religion--worship comes first, doctrine and moral rules come later;" as he says in an interview with Teva Regule, St. Nina Quarterly: A Journal Exploring the Ministry of Women in the Eastern Orthodox Church, Vol 1, No 3, June 11, 1997 in Washington, D.C.
I really enjoyed this book.
I have been interested in the teachings of the Orthodox church for some time.
This is an introductory book, the author has written a much more extensive one elsewhere.I found this quite interesting though.
He quotes many Orthodox writers, but also non-Orthodox writers.
He intentionally doesn't take the time to argue with non-Orthodox Christians, but instead he presents what the Orthodox church teaches and believes.
I found that I agreed with nearly all of it (only a couple of areas my Protestant soul had some questions).I would really recommend anyone pick this up and read it.
Hopefully you will enjoy it as I have.
This book literally changed my life in that it matured my views and belief in G-d. I was raised in a Pentecostal family, and by the age of 13 felt nothing but utter contempt for the Christian church. Nearly ten years later, I was having a rather constructive conversation with a train-hopping Christian, and he handed me this book and said simply, "I don't care if you give this book back to me, but you have to read it from cover to cover. It'll bring a new meaning to everything in life." I must say his introduction is enough.
....The way of fastidiousness!That's the first thing that comes to my mind when I hear the word "orthodox", anything orthodox, I think of "fastidious", which runs against everything "grace" is about and being "gracious". The Orthodox Way is the only way, my way or the high way! No way Jose! And I am the poet and I didn't know it! Kallistos Ware makes me queasy, with a capital "Q" as he sounds pompous in every way and I love for all theology to meet me at my own level, speak to my heart like a child.
Great intro to an ancient and venerable tradition within Christianity. The west in general could learn something from Orthodox thought. Some of the differences may seem slight at first, but lead to a wholly different approach to theology. Students of Taoism may notice some parallels at the mystical level, especially in areas like the apophatic approach or hesychastic meditation. "You are a world within a world: look within yourself, and see there the whole of creation." St Nilus of Ancyra
This along with "Orthodox Church" were my introduction to Orthodoxy.
The author patiently explains the Eastern Christian tradition, going into the basics and using simple language.
However, it is clear that he expects his readers to be quite familiar with the broader Western tradition, if not Western Christian tradition specifically.
In more than one place, his entire point hinges on using the same Latin root with two different conjugations--he fully expects the reader to understand Latin well enough to know not only the meaning of the root, but also how the changed conjugation changes the implication.
I do know that in 2018 so few people are familiar with Latin that it just feels like too advanced language for a basic introduction.
I really liked this one, it had a way of stating theological concepts of orthodoxy in a clear and concise way (often better than other books) that made reading go smoothly.
Of course, it was a great help to be able to text questions to my priest along the way as well.
I think this book is a good entry into dogma and theology of orthodoxy that is neither intimidating nor too long.
I think he wrote with a very broad audience in mind, the prose feel contemporary and can be enjoyed by anyone.Required reading by Abouna Paul, and also recommended by a convert friend of a friend on Twitter.
There's a reason we always recommend this book to newcomers in the church. It's very clear and easily digestible for those who are new to Orthodox theology, but it hasn't dumbed anything down the way some writers tend to do nowadays. I also appreciate that it doesn't spend much time at all pointing out specifically what is wrong with Protestant & Catholic thinking. I think some of these "Intro to Orthodoxy" books tend to put newcomers off because they are tempted to feel offended. But this book simply focuses on the Orthodox faith.
A must read for any Orthodox Christian, especially those born into the faith rather than converts. Also excellent read for Roman Catholics. This book is different than other books on orthodoxy, many of which are descriptive, tactical or historical. This book is ALIVE. It is SO GOOD. Excellent read for non-orthodox as well, although i wouldn't start with this one unless already well versed in basic Christian denominations. You just won't get as much out of it.
It's the kind of keeper you can pair up with your bible. Great for reminders and re-referance.
