https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4786278-jack-kirby-s-the-demon
I was familiar with the character of Etrigan the Demon from Alan Moore's "Swamp Thing," so it was fun to read his original Jack Kirby solo series.
Kirby created Etrigan at the behest of his editors at DC, who wanted a supernatural-themed "weird adventure" story.
Kirby's series is best when he goes all-in on the supernatural, filling double splash pages with gothic castles, monsters, and torch-wielding Central European peasants, and building operatic storylines out of references to Arthurian legend and all sorts of weird occult nonsense.
The long, slow middle stretch of Kirby's run is filled with formulaic "monster of the month" issues and lots of tedious banter from the extended cast.
So. Good.I'm a fan of Jack Kirby, obviously. And I'm a fan of 70s horror comics. And this combines the best of both, along with a good helping of Silver Age superheroics and something that could be called proto-Hellboy. Most of the time I read old Jack Kirby monster comics for the art of the creatures, and for the lightweight, escapist silliness of the plotlines. This is a different story. While it's still a product of its time, and how, it's just a great bit of comic awesomeness, and in a very nice package to boot.
A really good Jack Kirby from the 70s. I love the characters he created here and the mythology he added to the DC universe
I've not really read a lot of Kirby stuff.
Writing styles from 50s-70s can be difficult for me to read.
This is so out there that I don't know that it matters.King Kirby is obviously in rare form while writing this one.
And seeing what Kirby did with Teekl (his familiar) in that second story...all stories with them takes on a whole new meaning.The Demon and Jason Blood are pretty much front and center this whole time, as well they should be.
I'm still looking for when Demon starts speaking only in iambic pentameter, though.
I enjoyed this book a lot more than I thought I would.
Usually these comic books published before I was born tend to get a little...boring.
I'm also a big fan of Jack Kirby's art, so this book was a must for me.The writing in this can get a little wordy and stranded like most older comic books, but story wise I thought this was really great.
Not only was there an actual story, there was drama to go along with Kirby's dramatic art style.
I love how Kirby draws his knights.
Remember, he didn't just draw comic books, he created worlds.
Since supernatural comics were all the rage in the 1970s, DC mandated that Kirby create this comic rather than work on projects that he was more interested in. The result is a fairly interesting occult comic, but not anywhere near Kirby at his best. It falls quickly into a moster-of-the-week cycle of stories. The monsters are not all that interesting--a Dr. Frankenstein clone, a Phantom of the Opera, and so on. However, the appearance of Klarion the Witchboy is a plus.
This man loved to draw comics - you can see it on every page.
The work is dynamic and unique.
Kirby created a whole new language of comic-book art, and it sings in the pages of "The Demon".I only wish his extreme visual talent was matched by his storytelling abilities.
I think he does a terrific job in coming up with the initial story idea and characters, but it seems like he could have used more writers to help him keep the ideas coming after the first couple of issues.
The fact that he was the artist, writer, and editor of this and so many other comic magazines speaks to his incredibly active mind and immense work ethic.
It's a fun comic, but it's not as good as Jack's other early 70s DC work.
The Fourth World stuff and OMAC were complete experiments in building a universe, an entire cosmology, while the Demon is basically about Jason Blood and his alter ego fighting random occult threats every month.
There's very little sense of a coherent back story underpinning the entire series, which makes the separate adventures feel random, rather than building a sense of wholeness.Still, Kirby's art is as great as ever, and if you don't mind the Demon vs.
I always liked the look of this character from the Batman and Justice League cartoons but admittedly knew nothing else about him. I'm not a big fan of his more recent portrayals in comics but I have to say, I loved these Jack Kirby stories! I might just have a new favorite DC character.
Además, el ojo no acostumbrado a la peculiar línea de este dibujante, desenfrenada, apabullante (las dobles páginas de Kirby son siempre un ejercicio para la vista), a sus acusadísimos escorzos, sus forzados encuadres, sus no siempre académicas anatomías (gigantescas manos e hipertrofiadas rodillas) y a sus escenas de escalas desequilibradas, en las que cada figura se injerta artificialmente, puede encontrar aún más difícil la lectura de las aventuras del de la tez dorada.Merlín unió el alma de Jason Blood a la de su medio hermano el demonio-bardo Etrigan, uniéndolos para siempre.
Despite some fantastic dynamic layouts, some memorable characters, and the chance to use his limited horror palette - it never quite stops feeling that way.The creation story (from the forward) is meant to be endearing and to show how JK thought, and it is - but as you make your way into this collection (particularly when you arrive at the Phantom of the Opera and Frankenstein...
I mean "Evilstein", yeah/no not making that up, issues) that endearing creation story starts to depress.Kirby was shoehorned into this book - concepts were all his, but it was intended to be handed off to other writers and artists (w/ Kirby editing).
Jack Kirby's Demon plays an interesting role in the development of the graphic novel.
The moving back-and-forth of creators has played a large part in the long battle between Marvel and DC for comic book dominance in America.
Jack Kirby's creations dominate media today, so his switch from Marvel to DC in the 1970's was monumental.
I was so disappointed at the time that I immediately had a prejudice against the books Kirby subsequently created.
True, the characters indulge in some corny dialogue, but maybe living in a turbulent Jack Kirby world would make anyone talk that way.
Sempre gostei do personagem Etrigan, o Demônio, quando ele aparecia rimando seus diálogos em diversas publicações dos heróis da DC Comics.
Ao ler essa edição, qual não foi minha surpresa, ao verificar que em seu início, o demônio Etrigan não rimava em seus diálogos.
Etrigan é mais um personagem da leva de criaturas que surgiram na Marvel e na DC Comics com o afrouxamento do Código dos Quadrinhos, que na época começava a permitir seres sobrenaturais nas publicações.
Etrigan é um quadrinho divertido, cheio de conceitos interessantes e com a arte característica de Kirby.
The stories were entertaining though occasionally it seemed that they would wrap up suddenly due to lack of space more than anything else. The art is classic Kirby and produces a cool, creepy vibe like from a 60's Batman colored occult horror movie of the early 70's (the time the comics were originally published). I would recommend this book to those who like cheesy old horror-hero type comics with faux occultism as only a comic-book could present it particularly if you like monsters as there is at least one monster per issue.
honestly its the art that gets 5 stars. the words 3so I'm meeting them in the middle with a 4. Reading this now in 2018, some 45+ years after it was first published, and Kirby's knack to put more on a page then we now see in half an issue if not a full one makes for a hectic read, but its all there. I fell for the demon, cared (for the first time) about jason blood, and now wish to re-read all the other stuff that i skimmed over when rounding out the "horror" aspect of the DC universe.
One of Kirbys greatestGone, gone, O form of man! Forth the Demon, Etrigan! Yes, Jason Blood, demonologist, also cursed to live for centuries due to Merlin linking him with Etrigan the Demon. A fun series and a character whose lasted since the 70s, this is a masterpiece by the king and well worth reading.
I feel like it took Kirby a little time to figure out what he wanted to do with this creation. Not that surprising since an occult book was a DC mandate. Once it gets rolling it's really entertaining. Some of the issues doe have a disadvantage of feeling similar. Still, another hit from the King with some great characters, action and, of course, amazing art throughout.
This book is as old as I am.The writing is stiff and Odd.But somehow itBecomes a cleverSeries.Despite the wooden dialogAnd dated plot devicesThe Demon by KirbyIs exciting fun.Reading thisYou see whyJack KirbyIs a giant in theWorld of comics40+ years laterHis work is stillCaptivating.
Strong late Kirby material. Takes a little while to get going, but once Kirby finds his groove with a few multi-part stories, it’s solid. Since it takes place in Gotham, I was hoping to see Kirby include Batman, but as always Kirby did his own thing.
Kirby é um gênio da composição de página e design de personagens. Cada folha deste encadernado é quadrinho de super-heróis na sua concentração mais pura, com muitas cores e impacto visual. O roteiro não é um destaque, mas consegue divertir.
Standard 70's Kirby mayhem. The artwork is so energetic it could power a nuclear submarine. The biggest problem is, despite having a good concept, it got away from him. The plots started to drag on for no apparent reason. Still worth the read.
Some of the King's best work from DC. Bold, imaginative, colorful. There is a brief section of b&w pencils at the back of this edition. I wish there were of the same.
Never was a big fan of Jack Kirby until very recently. I'm now a Kirby convert. While The Demon's storytelling probably wouldn't appeal to modern readers, I generally enjoyed it.
This stuff is great comic book story telling. Kirby crafts a whole supernatural world around his concept character. He knew his audience and worked it.
one of the best creation of the king !!!
But as DC happened to have comics legend Jack Kirby working for them at the time, they asked him to do a horror-tinged comic book as well.As Mark Evanier explains in his introduction, Kirby homaged an old Prince Valiant story in the design of the central character, Etrigan.
The story ends with the sixteenth issue and Glenda discovering Jason’s secret., Kirby’s art is at its best with the monsters and action scenes–women were never one of his strong suits.Etrigan went on to many guest appearances and short-lived series, most recently appearing in Demon Knights.
The Kirby style in spades. The Demon is a classic set of tales as only Jack Kirby could create a demon, Etrigan, that is a hero and the human side, Jason Blood who is conflicted after learning of the occult side which was a creation of ancient Merlin. Interesting to see Jack's take on the occult. I think this work is a tad under his magnum opus, New Gods, but well worth reading the first 16 issues.
In the demon Etrigan, Kirby explores the eerie world of mysticism, starting in the downfall of Camelot and incorportating elements from 'Frankenstein' and 'The Phantom of the Opera' and 'The Wolfman.' Both the man, demonologist Jason Blood, and the demon, Etrigan, come together to create an imaginative and immensely engaging whole making for dynamic storytelling.
Jack Kirby created him, but countless writers have taken this character and expanded upon him.
While Etrigan lacks allot of the modern nuance, there is still the core traits that led those other writers to resurrect him and add to him to create the new and nuanced product that most of us have known and loved."The Demon" also spawned other engaging characters who have been resurrected and used in the contemporary DCU.
"Change! Change, o' form of man! Release the might from fleshy mire! Boil the blood in heart of fire!Gone! Gone! --- the form of man—! Rise, the Demon Etrigan!!" The character of the Etrigan the Demon may be one of Kirby's oddest. Possibly partly because of the fact that, as Mark Evanier notes in the foreword, Kirby never had an urge to write a horror comic. Yet faced with the task of making one at the request of his publishers at the time (i.e. DC), Kirby obviously came up with a character and
And here is what is, I believe, unique to Kirby's original vision (and something which later writers, perhaps even Kirby himself before he left, has turned into something comparatively mundane): Jason Blood is not a man possessed by a demon, he is the human vessel created to bind Etrigan.
In fact, one could arguably claim that Etrigan is in fact possessed by humanity in the form of Jason Blood.At any rate, this volume is a great read and is highly recommended, in particular to Kirby fans, but by no means restricted to that crowd.

