https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1287676.A_Dragon_Apparent
The sense of a country -- indeed, an entire region -- on the verge of revolution, beleaguered colonial officials gamely assisting the author in procuring transport from one crumbling outpost to the next, the documentary feel of his descriptions of tribal peoples, struggling to maintain their traditional way of life as their communities are decimated, not by the guerrilla war, but by the exploitation of French plantation owners, who have obtained the right to work the young villagers to death: Greene recognized a good story when he saw one.Much cause for moral outrage here, but Lewis does not neglect the landscape:At this season, in early February, there were no flowering orchids, but sometimes in the valley-bottoms, half-extinguished among the bamboos, we caught a glimpse of the fiery smoke of flamboyant trees.
I decided to read Norman Lewis' fascinating travel book on Indochina, A Dragon Apparent: Travels in Cambodia, Laos, and Vietnam (1951) for inspiration and preparation for travel in Cambodia.
Lewis travels to Vietnam in 1950 as the French are trying to hold onto their colonial possessions by employing tactics that will ultimately fail for the Americans as well.
Lewis also travels to Cambodia and wanders among the ruins of Angkor Wat and then onto Laos where he will visit Vientiane, van Vang, and Luang Prabang much like those on the backpacker trail of today.
Fascinating insight into Cambodia, Laos and Vietnam in the 1940s right before it all changed dramatically. The animated and witty narrative of Mr Lewis' adventures meant I couldn't put it down and subsequently bought four more of his books! Highly recommended!
A charming travelogue through Southeast Asia in the days when Vietnam was still a French colony, not that Vietnam's fight for independence was 'charming' but Lewis can make us smile even when describing a bowl of stinking local soup with river octopus arms draped over the sides. This is my favourite form of escapist reading--a well-written travelogue of countries one is interested in, with just the right dash of background history and cultural nuggets.
Lewis traveled there in early 1950, just as the fall of China to Mao's Communist forces was making an impact on the war between the French and the nationalists of Indochina, especially the Viet Minh, although Lewis also documents the role of the Issaraks in Cambodia (and even Laos) as well as the Cao Dai in Vietnam.Most of Lewis' travels, however, focus on the minority tribes in Indochina.
In both instances, these tribes of fiercely independent people were caught between the forces of dehumanizing colonialism, on one hand, and a Communist movement, on the other, that Lewis does not hesitate to compare to Nazi Germany.
For example, he very bluntly describes (with clear disapproval) how all the labor on the profit-making French plantations is conscripted indigenous people from the mountain villages, and he acutely documents how even a sympathetic governor is (in a sense) left with no choice but to turn a blind eye to slavery.
He neither meets nor talks with any Cambodian people and apparently made no effort to do so.Similarly, when he gets to Luang Prabang he seems to be merely bored by the town, mentioning that there is a temple on practically every block, but making no effort to learn any stories associated with them.
Hard work for me...I'm going to beg to differ with the other reviewers... I've been reading for fifty years, but I have seldom come across a book containing so many words I was unfamiliar with! This made reading disjointed and, together with the author's slightly "colonial" attitude, resulted in the low rating.I bailed out at 20% - but will re-read later...
I loved this book, the writing was lovely, really poetic. His observations were spot on, love the way he skewered French Colonialism and the evangelical missionaries. So interesting to hear about this part of the world pre-Vietnam war.
A really charming book. Contains a lot of interesting stories about the natives, missionaries, the French colonials, Cambodian temples, etc. But most of the times I find it hard to read, probably only because of my limited vocabulary knowledge. So, 3.5 stars.
Travel memoirs from back in the day, when Indochina was a French colony. Fun to read, if you've been to Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia before.
A Dragon Apparent: Travels in Cambodia, Laos & Vietnam by Norman Lewis is a beautifully written, highly enjoyable report of his travels through three countries that no longer exist.His writing style is descriptive and compelling, with an underlying tone of dry humor that is hard to get, but makes it all the more enjoyable.
No wonder then that A Dragon Apparent kept my interest for all 317 pages of the book.The position in which Lewis undertakes his travels is also one that no longer exists today: as a journalist he is invited to tea with kings and high ranking diplomats, whether he wants to or not and has access to many places the average traveler will never get to.
Lewis was fortunate to observe the vanishing ancient cultures as they went down for the third time: the Viet Minh were on the rise and repelling the French, and the region's cultures would, in the next 5 years, be incinerated.Lewis' prose is tight and "British", full of understatment and dry humor, very enjoyable in an old-world way.
But there are glimpses of ancient cultures, visits with kings, and description and criticism of the colonial system and the ways it had already been crushing the life out of the populace for many years.
Interesting to read as a snapshot of Vietnam when all the conflict was still contained within its borders. This was before US intervention and shows how the french struggled to keep order before withdrawing completely.Lewis has a good eye for highlighting the constant beaurocratic delays so often encountered in oriental countries and spends most of this book travelling around in army jeeps, freight lorries and diplomatic vehicles rather than face delays at airports and rail stations. I felt that there was more to be said on Laos as the book is predominantly based in Vietnam but is still enjoyable


A fascinating portrait of a very important period in that regions history. Lewis is an excellent writer and a thorough journalist.Make sure you get a copy with the forward he wrote afterwards in the 1980s as it is the best part of the book.My only criticism is he spends so much time trying and failing to get to Laos and Cambodia that he's in Vietnam for over two thirds of the book - not ideal if you're reading for specifically Laos or Cambodia.
This is not really the book I read, it was An empire of the East (which I coulnd't find on Goodreads), about his travels through Aceh and East Timor. Lewis paints - and this he does very well - a disturbing picture (the killing of men and nature!); and this was at the end of the last century. I bet it has only gotten worse. Shame!
A great book about what happens when West meets East, when modern technology meets Stone Age, and how this can be devastating for the original and fragile cultures. Written by impartial Englishman with exceptional talent for storytelling and sharp eye for details. It's a pity that this book cannot be used as a travel guide because those times are forever gone. In any case, really good read!
Fantastic introduction to what was once known as IndoChina. Great insights into the 'twilight of the French colonial regime' and a world that has now vanished, and full of stories and anecdotes about 'a society on the brink'. A wonderful read for anyone wanting to know more about this largely forgotten time. First published in 1951.
It's got a kind of deadpan Monty Pythonesque humour and it takes you back effectively to a very different time. Though it's not always easy going I found myself coming back to his observations about the area time and again during our travels.
One of my favorite travel writing books ever. Lewis is relentlessly curious, writes in clear, poetic prose and seems to put himself in all the right places. He is also eerily prescient about the inevitability of brutal war coming to South East Asia.
Indochina in a bygone era. Lewis records in scientific anthropological detail the multitude of tribes and their customs/appearances whilst on a roadtrip thru Cambodia
Certainly fascinating, but not to the point where I was riveted. I would have preferred more context on the French colonial history of the time.
I may have read this before but will read again.
an absolute classic and tremendous reading for anyone going to Vietnam, Laos or Cambodia. Sadly, only Laos still has some of the feel that Lewis so eloquently describes.
An ambitious travel narrative first published in the early 1950s...it took some discipline to get into the book, but I enjoyed the later chapters, particularly those on Cambodia and Laos.
Another great Normn Lewis book. Amazing stories from Vietnam, Cambodia and Loas, in the 1950's at the end of the French colonial times.
Interesting travelogue from more than 50 years ago.
