https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25191.A_Personal_Matter
(hide spoiler)] It’s also “personal” because in real life the author has a brain-damaged son who is a major character in four of his novels.
When the main character tells his father-in-law the news of the deformed baby (the mother still does not know) even though his father-in-law knows he is on the wagon, he gives his son-in-law a bottle of scotch, with the obvious result.While his wife is still in the hospital and the baby is clinging to life by a thread, he seeks solace by sleeping with a woman friend from times past.
He does not want us to shed copious tears at the misfortunes that befall Bird or feel only an acute hatred for his indecision, but experience the entire gamut of human actions and emotions, no matter how blasphemous or socially condemnable each one of them maybe.In slow succession, the reader becomes-Bird, the indifferent cram school teacher.Bird, the day-dreamer.Bird, the miserable failure of a man.Bird, the conspiring murderer.Bird, the unfaithful husband.And at the very end, Bird, the accepting father.As one plows along, it becomes apparent that Ōe's aim has not been self-indulgent or cathartic story-telling, but instead, to take the whole world along on an immensely difficult journey, he must have embarked on all alone at some point.
The tragedy of a grotesquely deformed child, while disconcerting and disruptive to everyone concerned - family, hospital staff, employer - is no more than that.
Bird, the protagonist, wanders the streets aimlessly and gets into fistfights while his wife is in labour.
His ex-girlfriend, Himiko, when not having sex with strangers, meditates all day on a ramifying quantum universe, and drives her MG sports car around all night, equally aimlessly.
The father-law-law, hearing of his deformed grandson’s birth, provides Bird with a bottle of whisky, knowing he is an alcoholic.
People love this damn book but I wanted to climb inside the pages and tip our hero into a cement mixer so he could become part of the foundations of the new Tokyo and therefore perform the only useful act in his miserable life. I mean, fucking hell, get a grip.
What if part of you was like, this is going to screw up my vacation plans?
I don't know what I would think.
I've been to dark places but not this dark, and it'd be presumptuous to think I might know what it'd bring out in me.
But "the baby continued to live, and it was oppressing Bird, even beginning to attack him.
Maybe so; a deadly cactus." Bird starts to panic as the child refuses to die.
"How can we spend the rest of our lives, my wife and I, with a monster baby riding on our backs?
Oe explores how the individual in confronting life's tragedies, in choosing his ideals and finding his "meaning," overcomes humiliation and shame, gains self-definition, finds his destiny: to eventually "get on with life;" and in so doing, finds personal dignity and a sense of responsibility to his fellow man.And to Bird, from another parent of a disabled child: I hear you, I feel you.
Only Bird is informed of this; his partner is currently not conscious, the baby swept from the room, as is usually the case directly after birth.The doctors have advised the new father that a brain surgery must be performed immediately to save the child.
The surgeon makes no guarantees as to the outcome, although there is a very good chance that the child, if he survives an operation, will be no more intelligible than cod in miso sauce.Oe, the author, now eighty-three years old, has a brain damaged son.
Japanese men are exponentially more handicapped in this department.
Προσωπική υπόθεση είναι να καταλάβεις πως όταν στο πρόσωπο των πεθερικών σου συγκινείσαι βλέποντας στοιχεία της γυναίκας σου, όσο στα μακρουλά δάχτυλα του μωρού που αρνείσαι να παραδεχτείς βλέπεις τα δικά σου και σε κινήσεις του ψυχόρμητες, τις δικές σου, πως όλα αυτά κραυγάζουν, για αποφάσεις που πάρθηκαν ερήμην σου και κατά τύχη και όμως περίτρανα και περίλαμπρα, πλησιάσε, σίμωσε, αγκάλιασε.Ο Μπερντ δεν είναι δειλός, είναι φυγόπονος και ευθυνόφοβος με τον τρόπο που αποφεύγουμε έναν εαυτό που παλεύει να βγει στο φως και του το αρνούμαστε, διότι αυτό θα απαιτούσε περιπαθή προσπάθεια σκέψης και ολοκλήρωσης μιας συναισθηματικής εικόνας που μας τρομάζει, όπως κάθετί που διαφεύγει των απλών γεωμετρικών σχημάτων, γιατί τελικά αποτελεί δικαιολογία για να υπάρχουμε ένα τούνελ στο οποίο σκάβουμε παραμένοντας με ενάργεια στο σκοτάδι, αντί για τη διχάλα που θα βγάλει σε μια σπηλιά με υψηλότερο θόλο, ικανή να οδηγήσει σε μια λίμνη βαθειά σ’ ένα βουνό, ή στο φως του ζεστού ήλιου, στην εμπειρία της προσωπικής ανάπτυξης ενός εαυτού που απαιτεί πια να φωτιστεί, να πάψουν τα παράδοξα και ξαφνικά να είναι παράδοξα και ξαφνικά, να γίνουν κατανοήσιμα μέλη λογικής ακολουθίας.
Creo que nunca, o muy pocas veces, un libro me había hecho sentir emociones tan diferentes y tan opuestas.
pero a la vez, no sería tan extraño encontrarse en su situación...
He sufrido tanto por ese bebé...
Y creo que sí, que por todo ello y aunque es un libro que no querría releer, creo que tampoco me apetece leer nada más del autor, al menos de momento...
creo, a pesar de todo, que se merece 5 estrellas.
Pero el hecho de no haberlo disfrutado...
no puedo ponerle las 5.
no puedo darle 5...
quizá las merece...
(This all happens in the first 10 pages so I'm not spoiling anything.) It seems as if Bird's whole world falls apart now and he goes on something of a bender.Anyway, this is the point where I put the book down because I really didn't like Bird, and I felt so sorry for his wife and his new child.
I loathed Bird for being so self-centered.I picked the book up again and got more into it.
Just like Catch-22, I was SUPPOSED to loathe these characters!
And then I felt better :)Needless to say, I finished the book and really became involved with the characters and their thought processes.
But I was so involved in Bird's thoughts that I felt gobsmacked when I got to the end.
"Kişisel Bir Sorun"da başyapıtı olarak görülen en tanınmış eseri.
Yazar eseri 1964'de yazıyor.
Başkarakter Bird, hepimizin kolayca empati kurabileceği birisi değil.
Bu durumda kalacak olsak bizim vereceğimizi düşüneceğimiz kararlar, muhtemelen daha kolayca olacaktır.
Bu anlamda Bird'in iç sesine şahit olmak, yıkımlarını okumak insana bir fikir sahibi olma fırsatı veriyor.
Bu şekilde ağır psikolojik travmaların neden olduğu erozyonların, bir anda dönüşmesi bende inandırıcılıktan çok, okuyanı tatmin etme isteği ile ilgili olduğu kanısını oluşturuyor.
Ama yine de benzerini okumadığım için etkilendiğim bir kitap oldu.Kenzaburo Oe'nin de çağdaşı Japon yazarlardan ayrılan bir tarafı var ki, o da daha evrensel bir dil ile yazıyor oluşu.
If you've never read this one and you're looking for a shortish novel that rocked hard enough to win the dude the Nobel Prize, something you can read before the weekend ends, something with serious existential, historical, and cultural HEFT, but also relatively easy reading, here ya go.
When people talk about "perfect" novels, an idea I totally glower at, I think of this as an example .
Bird is not a very good dude for 99% of the novel, but that's the point for the other 1%.
Maybe what's wrong with American Letters today is that not enough people have read this late-20th century Japanese masterpiece?!
On a dark and lonely battlefield I have never seen, my son was wounded like Appolinaire and now he is screaming soundlessly ……I’ll have to bury him like a soldier who died at war.Bird continued to cry.In between his twinges of lunatic thought, we get some moving poetic windows on his misery: A night softness had lingered in the hospital, and now the morning light, reflecting off the wet pavement and off the leafy trees, stabbed like icicles at Bird’s pampered eyes.
Speeding away on a bike, he felt he was escaping himself more effectively than he could on foot, if only a little.His old girlfriend tries her best to help him, sharing her optimism in alternate universes where maybe her husband’s suicide did not happen and Bird baby is healthy.
On the one hand, this is an extremely well-written short novel about a man coming to terms with the birth of a special-needs child that will inevitably cause him to have to grow up and sacrifice many of his own selfish needs.On the other hand, I don't recall ever having such intense hatred for nearly every character in a book.
honestly, I don't think I was supposed to like or sympathize with the characters and because the writing was truly exquisite.
A sua vida desliza para o abismo quando nasce o seu primeiro filho com uma grave deficiência: parte do cérebro exposto por uma fenda no crânio; poderá ser operado mas será toda a vida um vegetal.
Para mim, Bird é o paradigma de qualquer ser humano perante uma situação que o vai escravizar e obrigar a renunciar a todos os seus sonhos; num primeiro momento revolta-se e depois aceita, ou não...
Uma Questão Pessoal foi publicado (em 1964) depois do nascimento do filho de Kenzaburo Oe, com uma deficiência mental.
Κι εκεί που δεν το περιμένεις, ξεπετιούνται κάποια διαμαντάκια να φωτίζουν το δρόμο της ενδοσκόπησης. Τούτο το βιβλίο χαμένο κάπου αδιάβαστο στα βάθη της βιβλιοθήκης, εμφανίστηκε στη προσπάθεια αναζήτησης άλλου βιβλίου! Τι τύχη όμως....Δύσκολο θέμα, ένας πατέρας που το νεογέννητο παιδί του είναι προβληματικό. Τι να κάνει; Να το υποστεί ή να το αφήσει να σβήσει; Τι θα πει στη γυναίκα του, στα πεθερικά του; Πως θ αντιμετωπίσει τον περίγυρο του; Να τα ξαναφτιάξει με μια παλιά σχέση; Ο ορισμός του κ
Κι εκεί που δεν το περιμένεις, ξεπετιούνται κάποια διαμαντάκια να φωτίζουν το δρόμο της ενδοσκόπησης. Τούτο το βιβλίο χαμένο κάπου αδιάβαστο στα βάθη της βιβλιοθήκης, εμφανίστηκε στη προσπάθεια αναζήτησης άλλου βιβλίου! Τι τύχη όμως....Δύσκολο θέμα, ένας πατέρας που το νεογέννητο παιδί του είναι προβληματικό. Τι να κάνει; Να το υποστεί ή να το αφήσει να σβήσει; Τι θα πει στη γυναίκα του, στα πεθερικά του; Πως θ΄ αντιμετωπίσει τον περίγυρο του; Να τα ξαναφτιάξει με μια παλιά σχέση; Ο ορισμός του καλού βιβλίου.
Çok çok etkileyici bir kaçış hikayesi...“Kendisine başkalarını suçlaması için gereken yeterliliği kaybettiğini de kabul etmek zorundaydı.” sf:140.“… bu gerçek yaşamda yaşamak, konan kurallara uyarak yaşamakmış gibi dayatılıyor. Kendini aldatma tuzaklarına düşmeye hazır bile olsanız, bir an geliyor reddediyorsunuz...” sf: 230.
يمكن آخر 3 صفح بس اللى عجبونيلــــكــــن
كان ذلك ما أسماه باتريك سميث «اللا شىء المقدس»، وهى عبارة انتشرت فى المجتمع اليابانى وبين المهتمين بالشأن اليابانى من الأجانب للتعبير عن التحولات فى مشاعر اليابانيين بعد اكتشاف خدعة قداسة الإمبراطور واكتشاف خوائه، ولكن لأنه لا يمكن التخلص من إرث مجتمعى وسلطوى طويل فقد حافظوا على موقعه المقدس فى المجتمع، وهم يعرفون عدم قدرته على فعل أى شىء!
En varios pasajes de la historia uno puede ver que varias de las reflexiones de Bird tienen una clara carga egoísta de su parte: su sueño de toda la vida fue hacer un viaje por África, pero la abrupta noticia del problema de su hijo viene a acabar con todos sus planes; porque lo que piensa Bird es que el nacimiento de su hijo, y su posterior crianza, podría resultar algo así como riesgoso tanto para él como para su esposa y el mismo bebé.
Kenzaburō Ōe not only makes it understandable that shame, fear and sadness can lead to seemingly incomprehensible actions - for those to whom the matter is not personal.
Bird's aimlessness, his dreaming of Africa, his reluctance to commit, are all not unusual for a 27-year old, and it may just be the extent of his tragedy that makes his wrestling with responsibility seem more crass than others.
In the novel Bird, a young Japanese man living in Tokyo, descends into a life and death moral turmoil over the birth of his first son who is born with a curiously damaged head.
It is a young man's moral struggle to rise above his dreams for himself and his raging passions.The blurb on the cover announces that it is close to "a perfect contemporary novel." After reading it for the first time years after its appearance I think that I could have written that blurb.
"But it seems that reality compels you to live properly when you live in the real world." - Kenzaburō Ōe  I am glad I got the chance to read this exceptional work. It is a wonderful feeling for a reader to read a book that has a strong ongoing plot with mature and very well build characters. This quality to be expressed in the form of writing is rare and Ōe has displayed this through his novel.The characters will take to a journey and will make you feel a different world. They are so realistic
It is a wonderful feeling for a reader to read a book that has a strong ongoing plot with mature and very well build characters.
This quality to be expressed in the form of writing is rare and Ōe has displayed this through his novel.The characters will take to a journey and will make you feel a different world.
This simple manner of developing strong characters did astonish me.
Even more, often times a reader will find that these characters drive the plot forward.
I like the way he writes in a flow that seems satisfying for a reader like me to enjoy.
Oe Kenzaburo won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1994, which adds absolutely no enjoyment to his novels.
"A Personal Matter" has burned itself into my brain, unforgettable and unpleasant as only a cesspool of defects gathered in a single character can be.
Compounded with his fear of everything and his will to run from any challenge, he takes the baby left and right and tries to get others to kill it, as he doesn't have the stomach to be evil to the very end.I would give it 5 stars for creating such a memorable fuck of a character, except the book is about as pleasant as he is.
This is the kind of book you would like it to be (if you are a humanitarian) a bestseller. Raw, truthful, crafted, deep, beautiful and, if not life-changing, at least it will make an impact in your heart.P.S.The ending might seem predictable, yet it is something deeply rooted in Japanese culture (to take responsibility for your actions and embrace what life brings to you) and more natural than premeditated if the novel is read vividly.
A raw and powerful book about the brutality of life, human dreams, and dignity.
Güzel bir kaçış romanı diyebilirim. Ancak yazar başkaraktere oldukça mesafeli yaklaştığı için herkesin kolayca içine girebileceği ve seveceği bir roman olmayabilir. Roman boyunca baş karakter Bird gerçeklerle ve karşılaştığı sorunlarla yüzleşmekten kaçıyor, kendini kandırıp duruyor. Ama romanın sonu tartışılabilecek bir biçimde bitiyor.
La obra en sí misma me ha parecido estupenda, ya que plantea un tema sumamente escabroso y lo hace con apertura y a veces hasta con cinismo; aborda una situación de vida que debe de trastocar por completo la existencia de quién la llegue a encarar y debe de golpear ferozmente las fibras más sensibles que puede tener un ser humano: la aceptación o el rechazo ante el nacimiento de un hijo con un gran defecto físico.
And I hated reading it.
The main character, Bird, is a 27 year old who dreams of going to Africa.
Unfortunately, what he did here is create a character so selfish and depraved that I actively hated him while reading.I would certainly never recommend this book outright, but I have to admit, if you want something that deals with difficult problems in a vicious manner this book is perfect for you.“But it seems that reality compels you to live properly when you live in the real world” (164).Cross post from here: http://www.somesmart.com/2010/a-perso...
I was shocked at how disgustingly honest Bird was with the reader, who is an obvious parallel to a younger Oe, who has a brain damaged child of his own, although when this was written, it was unclear how the child would develop as he grew up, which is how I think Oe managed to put the ending of A Personal Matter as he did.
He ultimately has to choose between responsibility and his own happiness, and has some help along the way from people whose lives he has affected in the past, and learns things he does not expect about each decision.It can be difficult to read because of the brutality of the descriptions and language in the book, but extremely worthwhile.
