https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29288.One_Morning_in_Maine
As a kid, I found "One Morning in Maine" calming and familiar, an ideal naptime book. Revisiting it much later in life, in a B. Dalton I believe, I was shocked to find myself teary-eyed, even dizzy, looking at the pages. It felt like picking up a seashell at the beach and finding a tiny picture of my best friend from kindergarten inside.
Robert McCloskey makes this story extremely cute and inspiring a the same time as Sal tries to figure out the meaning of growing up after she looses her tooth and many children will easily relate to Sal’s emotions about her loose tooth as many children have often lose their baby teeth and they usually have feelings of fear and excitement as they fear that they will feel pain when their baby teeth will fall out and feel excitement as they experienced the joys of growing up.[image error]Parents should know that this book might be a tad bit too long for smaller children to handle as the book is about sixty-pages long and parents might want to read the first thirty pages one night and then the next thirty pages the next night so that children would not be easily bored by this book.“One Morning in Maine” is a fantastic book about the wonders of growing up and will be an instant classic for many children who also experience the wonders of a loose baby tooth.
How do I love the illustrations of this book!
Currently one of Niamh's favourites. She quotes sections to me randomly throughout the day... "My, such trouble" "We're having cham powder for lunch!" [sic] This is one of those books that kids love, but parents don't have to get tired of reading to them. I love the way McCloskey is able to take the stuff of everyday life and suffuse it with a gentle humour and an obvious understanding of the inner workings of a child's mind. Reading this book is like eating a slice of warm, home-baked bread with the butter still melting on it.
This book takes place where I grew up in the summer and still go visit every summer. Sal and Jane are real people and the store/garage are also there just revamped. As I worked at the yacht club during my years from HS- college you do see many people stepping off the boats reinacting sal and janes adventures which is cute.A fun book for kids and adults all ages who come to visit in this town in the summer!
How did I missed this book all my life? Well, my children will not miss out on this classic. Sweet story. Beautiful charcoal illustrations.
One Morning in Maine was our read this morning from Make Way for McCloskey on the recommendation of Sonlight P3/4.
While I remember Make Way for Ducklings from my childhood I do not know all of these other McCloskey tales and I am really enjoying them with my girls.
One Morning in Maine is a great read of a great day of adventure in a little girl, probably around five.
From the excitement and jumping out of the bed with anticipation of fun and excitement for the day to tenderly taking care of her sister without being asked and on to the thrill of telling everyone and thing that she meets that she has a loose tooth.
This is just the sweetest little short story ever! I've been reading it since I was a tiny kid (or rather my mother's been reading it to me), and I've always loved it. I love the descriptions of the animals and how Sal interacts with them. I talk to animals about stuff, too ... and I'm a teenager ...Also, this book really makes me want to visit the ocean and have chocolate icecream. :P~Kellyn Roth, Reveries Reviews
McCloskey never disappoints. I love the story and the drawings offered in this book. I am not certain if I have now read everything that McCloskey wrote, but this may be my favourite. If you want to offer your children (and yourself) a sense of a life that is nearly completely in the past, please share this one as a family.
He received the Caldecott Honor in 1953 for his book, "One Morning in Maine."The story of a child losing a tooth for the first time has been dealt with in picture books in all different ways, but the story of Sal and her tooth are told in such a way that it stays with the reader long after the last page has been turned.
For those that grew up with books by this author and illustrator, Sal and the other characters created by McCloskey, are old friends.
They are the kind of friends one wants to introduce to other young readers that will continue to love them as they grow.It's easy to see why McCloskey has been honored for his illustrations in children's books.
The author conveys his love of Maine with lovely charcoal like black and white illustrations.Written in 1952, the illustrations took me back in time to my childhood and reminded me of the Dick and Jane books.
Sal awakes to find her tooth is loose.
Excited about a trip to Buck's Harbor with her father, she and her little sister walk the beach to find him.While digging clams, her tooth falls out and is lost to the sea.
Traveling via row boat the Buck's Harbor Sal tells the tale of her missing tooth to the sea gulls and the seal.Slow and leisurely in pace, this is a delightful snapshot of times gone by.
Maybe this book triggered my interest in the Atlantic NE. The scenery is inviting and would have appealed to me. And how fun for a child -- woods and beach, digging for clams, a boat ride to go shopping, ice cream cones -- what a life! At the time it was written, the story was 'modern' now it's nostalgic. But ... it still shows the working of a child's mind, and as children begin to lose their teeth, they'll identify with Sal. This is a keeper.
This is a nice story about life on a Maine island for a family of four. Sal (from Blueberries for Sal, perhaps?) is growing up and has a loose tooth. She goes to help her dad go clamming and then she and her little sister go over to the mainland with their dad in a boat to get groceries. It's very quaint, and tells of an older time, but still has a sincerity and a sweetness that resonates with children today. We really enjoyed this story.
My 5 year old loves this one...it hits a lot of his interests (loose tooth! little sibling! boats! ice cream! motors!). The illustrations are so detailed and support the story so well, that even my two year old will happily sit through this book. And I appreciate all the "real" details...actual names of wildlife, the spark plug problem, as well as the gentle way that McCloskey shows losing things (a tooth, a feather, a boat part) isn't catastrophic.
The book is good and is set in Maine. The pictures are sketched so it gives it the old style look. It is based on the family and the daughter who loses a tooth. Questions are asked about who does and does not have teeth. It is a cute book for younger children who have lost their tooth and are proud of it, as it is a sign of growing up.
This is a sequel to Blueberries for Sal. This time Sal is olderwith a little sister Jane. The book takes her through a day with her dad and a trip to Buck’s Harbor. And another fun surprise that makes it an extraordinary day for Sal. The drawings are superb. The movement and action are so good you feel like you are actually watching the day. Jane’s adventures in the pictures offer a perfect silent B line to the book. I really like Robert McCloskey’s drawings.
Not as good as Blueberries for Sal, but cute. I picked this up in Portland, Maine, as a souvenir for my granddaughter. I think she'll enjoy it (when she gets old enough, of course).
She would show these sepia-artsy pictures of her husband, her dog, herself, all in Maine, and I knew NYC and this fast-paced publishing job, her five miles a day--they were a part of her, but Maine was the real part.So when I saw this book, with two girls (my boss had a sister, so it was perfect), running and clam digging with their dad in Maine while their mom makes clam chowder and little Sal looses her tooth, it was a weird sort of forgivenness hitting me in a way that only books and stories and time can create--and the love of the books and stories were always what we had in common anyway.
Rather, her mother tells her to put the tooth under her pillow and make a wish.Sal takes off to find her father, who is digging for clams along the shore.
Before she meets him, she tells the animals she encounters that she has a loose tooth.
As they dig for clams, Sal realizes she has lost her tooth.
She convinces herself that the bird would put the feather beneath the pillow and make a wish since he doesn't have teeth.Father and Sal gather Jane, the younger sister and head across the water to the general store in a row boat.
The story is cute--how Sal's tooth comes loose and falls out, and how she deals with the issue of wishes.
The way of life described in the story, the family's little isolated Maine life, reusable milk bottles, travel by boat, etc is like another world, and all the more charming for it.
The pictures are drawn so simply and yet vividly, with cute little details tucked in, like a cat winding its way behind a bench or a pet licking up spilled milk under the table while the main characters converse.
Definitely a book I want to share with the children in my life.
One Morning in Maine by Robert McCloskey (Puffin Books 1976) (Fiction – Children's).
Here's another book about Sal by the wonderful author and illustrator Robert McCloskey.
First published in 1952, this book was a winner of the Caldecott Honor.
Sal wakes up ready for a day on the water and finds that she has her first loose tooth!
Can anyone remember what an absolutely HUGE deal that was as a kid?
I remember it as being as big as the first time I was actually able to ride my two-wheeler without scraping knees and elbows!
This is one of my favorite picture books of all time.
I was thinking about it today because it is a beautiful book about a girl character that is not ABOUT a GIRL!!, if you know what I mean.
Sal's relationship to her father and her sister is so well-done, and I love that Sal suffers a small disappointment, yet her father does not sugar-coat it or try to "fix" it and life goes on.
The book is dated, but in a wonderful, magical way that will make you want to go back in time.
This old-fashioned book tells the story of a girl whose tooth is loose.
Her mother tells her she can put the tooth under her pillow and make a wish.
She goes digging for clams with her father, but she loses the tooth.
I presume the little girl is the same girl from "Blueberries for Sal" because her name is also Sal, but she is obviously a little older in this book.This book teaches a lot about nature because the little girl sees many animals and wonders if they have teeth.My son seemed to like this book.
He didn't know what clam chowder was.
(I don't think he has ever eaten it.) Great book for learning about Maine.
One Morning in Maine is a beautiful book that expresses the simple pleasures of life, whether it be losing your first tooth, getting that delicious chocolate ice cream cone, or Mom's fresh cooked clam chowder. McCloskey's story is a heart warming telling of a family's life on the coast of Maine, as well as an endearing interpretation of childhood and the meaning of growing up. A Caldecott Honor Book, One Morning in Maine is a great book for children between the ages of 3-6 years. A good read-aloud book for children.
This is such a beautiful book, my favorite so far of the McCloskey books. Such a big day for Sal, and oh, the questions, they're exactly the same ones I get from my almost five year old all the time, so endearing! This book would make a beautiful gift. Wish I could draw like Robert McCloskey ...
A follow up to Blueberries for Sal, she and Jane are on their way to Bucks Harbor. Sal has a loose tooth and wants everyone to know she's growing up. She wants to know what animals have teeth, and do they put them under pillows like human children? While she's helping her dad dig for clams her tooth falls out, but she can't find it. Not a big deal for Sal, she takes it in stride. They row over to Bucks Harbor with the clams and then head home for clam chowder! Another great day to be in Maine!
This is a sweet story about a girl, Sal (from Blueberries for Sal), and her loose tooth. The illustrations are beautiful and the sisters sweet. All my girls, ranging from 5 to 2, will all sit still for the whole book. Well, my 2 year old wanders around at about the 3/4 mark, but comes back to sit down later. You cannot go wrong with McCloskey.
This is Sal from "Blueberries From Sal", but a little more grown up--the toddler now is her sister Jane. Both little girls were based on McCloskey's own daughters.This is my own childhood favorite--I vividly remember the chocolate ice cream cone and the loose tooth falling into the salty mud. My own "Sal" and "Jane" loved this book too!
While the story of this book wasn't as interesting as I would have liked, I did enjoy the pictures, they were detailed and made the book feel more alive. I liked this book, aside from a few flaws it was nice.*Taken from my book reviews blog: http://reviewsatmse.blogspot.com/2008...
I can see why some stories become classics. We love the parts about Sal's tooth, the spark plug and the clam with a chocolate ice cream cone.(6-19-2000) This is such an excellent story t hat we'll never get tired of it.
