https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/818145.Love_and_Responsibility
The Pope skips those things in this book, so you just get the pure complex ideas.
The book is broken up in 5-8 page chapters, which took me about 15~20 minutes to get through and unpack.
I ended up reading about a chapter a day, which took me a very long time to complete.
When these ideas get distilled into more readable books by future writers and become more entertaining and digestable to the masses, I think these ideas are going to explode and provide and complete and rounded philosophy of love and life for many people.
Really great book - especially for a new Catholic.
and, thus not limit a marriage to a physical or utilitarian plane.
Now I get the Catholic teachings against artificial birth control.
232)After I began reading this book, I realized that a Catholic man I met over 20 years ago had told me about it.
He said that he wanted a marriage based on this book.
giving oneself as a gift to the other and God, and accepting the other person as a gift from God.The book is incredibly absorbing and involving - I highly recommend it.
In college I struggled with John Paul II's work The Theology of the Body and eventually gave up on it.
It was far more accesible and straighforward, at least compared to the Wednesday audiences that make up The Theology of the Body.
For me, this text is the best way to approach the Pope's theology of human sexuality that has become so popular and even trendy in circles of young Catholics.
(Not that it's full of annecdotes -- it's still a work of theology / philosophy.) I recommend it to one and all.
Wojtyla writes beautifully philosophic prose on the topic of love, particularly as it is expressed in marriage.
While the material is dense, the core ideas of love as commitment to the other person as a person, love as avoiding the mistaken notion that love involves using another person as an object, and marriage as the loving union of two persons designed to produce children has profound implications for how we think about marriage today.As a Protestant, much in the book flows quite nicely with my theological tradition, even if we rarely, if ever, express these ideas as well as they are here.
This book is a wonderful affirmation of how love can and should be expressed within the bounds of marriage and the beauty that flows from such an expression.
Very informative and moving book. Lots of food for thought. A definite must for all Catholics!
If I had any smidge of pro-choice thinking in my mind that was unresolved by my Catholic catechism up to the time I read this book, this book completely changed my mind and helped me become pro-life.
It is not right that unmarried men lead single women on and use them for their own sexual pleasure, and Pope John Paul sternly warns against this modern way of living.
Pope John Paul makes a convincing appeal to the modern secularized reader, and this book is an important read for men and women who are dating, in particular.
Like this topic and many others in the book, I appreciate the fact that Pope John Paul II didn't shy away from truth.I would love to tell you that Love and Responsibility is a book you can pick up and read one weekend and walk away feeling wiser and spiritually richer.
Pick this book up along with Man and Woman He Created Them: A Theology of the Body, and you will have the two essential texts for seeing into the mind of the brilliant Saint John Paul II.
Un libro imprescindible para profundizar en la concepción del amor y del matrimonio desde un punto de vista católico, que hunde sus raíces en una ética personalista y que pretende distanciarse de los ultilitarismos hedonista y puritano. Tiene una estructura progresiva que va desde un plano general de análisis del objeto y sujeto del amor, de lo que significa "gozar de" y "gozar con", hasta problemas concretos en las relaciones sexuales entre los cónyuges. Para leer y releer continuamente.
This is a philosophical master work in Christian Phenomenology. Beware, though. This is not a spiritual book or a papal encyclical. It's a complex work of philosophy which requires foreknowledge of phenomenology and metaphysics. John Paul is in his most intellectual and, therefore, least accessible in this work.
One of the three most important books I have read. Within, Karol Cardinal Wojtyla (Bl. John Paul II) plays the philosopher, expertly employing phenomenology girded by Thomism to discuss sexuality, relationships, and the meaning of human love. Although often mentioned as a precursor to Man and Woman He Created Them: A Theology of the Body, Love and Responsibility stands well enough on its own.
Think that the Roman Catholic prohibition of birth control is about being a spoil-sport and killjoy? Think again. Here is the moral theology upon which the Roman Catholic stance is based. It may actually be a beautiful thing.
A classic!
Pope John Paul II gives the reasoning and foundation for the how men and women should see relate with each other, especially in marriage.
He breaks down the kinds of love !
It's more than I would have expected from the most holy of priests, and he is as always a very compassionate and loving father in his explanations.
Edward Sri also has a short book with a conversational tone that can help as a study guide.
I read this as part of a discussion group, and will probably have to re-read it again, but it's worth it.
This book is a bit dense, but it captures amazingly well what Love (as a virtue) between a man and a woman is and what it isn't.
When I first started this book, I thought I would gain an idealized understanding of Love.
However, reading through it, what I am gaining is not an idealized understanding of Love, but rather a realistic understanding of Love.
Help yourself and read this book.
It'll revolutionize, purify, and complete your beliefs and ideas on Love.
I like this book so much, I have to re-rate my other ratings to properly account for this book.
Want to return to this; setting it aside with the greatest reluctance and only because I have started too many books at the same time. (sigh)Have read and reread Intro and first chapter three times. Dense text or I've got from summer sludge on the brain--probably both. However, it really seems to be one of those books which if I force myself to keep working on it will yield hundred or sixty or thirty fold.
If I were, say, the dictator of my own country, I would make this astounding book a required read for all people between the ages of 16 and 19. Then, for their 20th birthday, as a tradition, I would have the parents buy them another copy to read again. This book presents a necessary and vital understanding of love.
This book is the best book I have ever read. This is a must read for all Catholics especially young people. I highly recommend this book. It has changed the way I view relationships and has helped me to grow in my relationship.
John Paul II did it again. He philosophically got me thinking and questioning. Great for studying.
This book can save any marriage in trouble or strengthen the spousal relationship. Incredible concept about utility and about charity. Must read for any one who cares about love
A MUST READ.
Life altering. Incredibly dense. Read it with several really smart people and you might get a hint at the amazing things JP2 was suggesting.
Wanna know what real love is?
Philosophical and religious masterpiece that brings together everything I have ever been taught by the Church and come to understand through my own reason and experience in the most profound way.
The heart of this book lies in the total and complete affirmation of the value of the human person and recognition of the damaging utilitarian views which pervade modern society.
If so, I recommend Edward Sri’s helpful guide Men, Women, and The Mystery of Love which brings together the practical insights most necessary to understanding the theory explicated in the original translated work.
One of the reviewers on Amazon noted that he wished St. John Paul's picture had been kept off the cover of this, as the presence of a Pope on the cover might dissuade people who would otherwise read this book from doing so.
I can't help but think that an encounter with the arguments in this book--based as they are on ration, reason, and love--would not win at least a couple converts to the proper mode of sexual morality.
Such reflections put into perspective how important and beautiful the Church's teachings on sexuality and humanity really are, and the fact that, long before beatification, Mr. Wojtyla could be described as "great."
Some of John Paul's early wisdom: "The sexual instinct wants above all to give, to create a good, to bring happiness...
From the desire for the 'unlimited' good of another 'I' springs the whole creative drive of true love - the drive to endow a beloved person with the good, to make them happy.
"We have defined love as an ambition to ensure the true good of another person and consequently as the antithesis of egoism...
Love should help one to understand and to feel for a human being for this makes it possible to educate him, and in married life for husband and wife to educate each other."
Man in his various activities makes use of the whole created universe, takes advantage of all its resources for ends which he sets himself, for he alone understands them.
Intelligent human beings are only required not to destroy or squander these natural resources, but to use them with restraint, so as not to impede the development of man himself, and so as to ensure the coexistence of human societies in justice and harmony.
In his treatment of animals in particular, since they are beings endowed with feeling and sensitive to pain, man is required to ensure that the use of these creatures is never attended by suffering or physical torture.
A philosophy of the interrelatedness of love and responsibility -- however loaded both terms soon become -- here laid out in a surprisingly conversational, commonsense, even intuitive way.
The dictates could be applied to any number of worldviews, but Love and Responsibility is, of course, a book about Catholic sexual morality.It seems pretty obvious that it was written by dictation, which is okay per se, but here each sentence stretches on and on in complex threads of small words.
Unnecessarily labyrinthine, it can be a tough thicket to get through -- if it weren't for Wojtyla's constant reiteration of key points, hammering home the basic tenets again and again.
Pretty heavy stuff and kind of steamy in some places...
I agree with and love the theology but am still having a very hard time with some of the material, just as most modern couples do.
I love how JPII differentiates between animals (driven by instinct) and humans (free will) and why it's important to practice the virtues of love and temperance together.
Also the in depth philosophy on fully mature, integrated love is what they should really emphasize in pre-cana.
This is a deep, beautiful, philosophical journey that will no doubt lead to self-examination and a new way of looking at love and sex.
Karol Wojtyla at his best. The foundational work that he would later expand into a Theology of The Body. Taking a phenomenological approach, he develops the topic of how marriage fulfills human love in giving people their entire dignity. A very romantic and frank book, written by a man whose specialty was marriage counseling he speaks frankly of the need for generosity in the sexual union.....
A challenging book, but well worth it. So many quotes full of wisdom. The challenge is that much of the book is spent defining and parsing terms (which is necessary) that unless you've read the book, the quotes won't be as meaningful.Very helpful in learning about the personalistic norm and about the foundation for the Theology of the Body.Highly recommended!
