https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/116192.How_to_Read_a_Financial_Report
From there we can calculate the 'accounts receivable turnover ratio' and subsequently 'average sales credit period' to get a sense of how long, on average, the company allows its customers to pay for its products/services./********** END OF REVIEW **********/Some noteworthy points:-You might think twice before investing much time in analyzing the financial statements of corporations whose securities are publicly traded—because hundreds of other investors have done the same analysis and the chance of you finding out something that no one else has yet discovered is nil.

This book is an absolute gem for people from non-accounting background. This book lays out the intricate details of the connection between the financial statements and brings to light the importance of differentiating the Earnings from the Cash-Flow. Its a must read book for any people starting out into Stock Investments with less accounting acumen.
Not as difficult to read as I thought. In fact, it was quite readable. A good intro to financial statements. Plus, you can request a spreadsheet from the author to see how changes in performance are connected in the three financial statements.
This book saved my life in Financial Reporting!! The text book was not computing, and this spoke my language (and had helpful visuals!).
A Good Read. But it's not Updated enough.
Super helpful and well written book
Superb guideTaking the time to learn the basics of reading corporate financial statements can help you become more informed about your investments, your job and your business decisions.
Tracy provides a clearly written guide to core financial reports.
You will gain confidence as you work through the concepts he explains and begin to use what you learn to dig into the financials of familiar companies.
In the hands of a lesser teacher than Tracy, these concepts could be confusing.
Everyone needs some financial awareness.
getAbstract believes that this valuable introduction is a good starting point for learning to read real business data.
My manager recommended this book to me when I mentioned wanting to build a stronger financial/business acumen. The book went above and beyond in terms of the walk through of a typical financial statement and the interrelationships between the different line items. While my head is still spinning a bit from the volume of content, I do feel better about reviewing a company's financial statement and being able to extract meaning from it.
This was a surprisingly useful book that I've gone back to reference several times after the initial read-through. It's a good guide for students learning the basics, but also it communicates some of the more advanced details like how certain accounts impact each other in each of the financial statements.
"How To Read a Financial Report" is an informative but extremely dull read. It's probably most useful as a reference for later. One great aspect of this book is its focus on how the three main statements: Income Statement, Balance Sheet, and Cash Flow fit together. Probably a pretty decent read for an accounting book, but I'd also rather stick a fork in my leg than read books about accounting!
Good introduction to financial reports and reporting. The only thing I did not like was that I had an older edition of the book, so some of the terminology and examples were a little awkward (such as one example of a depreciating asset being a typewriter!). Other than that, this would be a great first stoop for anyone looking to learn about finance and financial reporting.
I am not an accountant or a finance major so I found this book to be very helpful. It took a concentrated effort on my part to follow along, but I found that John did an excellent job of reviewing cash flow statements, balance sheets and income statements line by line to increase my understanding. Furthermore, he illustrated the correlations between the reports.
Surprisingly and thoughtfully more opinionated than I would have ever expected from a book on this topic. Gets the job done with a few good "hmmm" moments sprinkled in there. Though, as Tracy stresses GAAP are constantly evolving, so this may be a great introductory course, but I imagine should probably be accompanied by a more recent work on the subject.
Read this one for an MBA class too. Pretty good overview of financial reports. It is a pretty good supplement for a financial course, or just interesting if you want to understand reports for the investments you make.
The book is easy to understand, but it shows it's age (written in 1996) and provides only a bare-bones look at reading financial statements. Could serve as an intro to someone coming in completely cold but does not illuminate many complexities.
Tracy states that the task of a business manager is threefold: earning profit, keeping the company's financial condition in order, and bringing in cash flow. He details what financial statements say (and what they don't) about the performance of the manager.
Before taking a finance class in grad school, I had never had any experience in corporate finances. This book was easy to follow and made the concepts easy to understand. It presents practical information that can be used for any organization. Recommended.
From Matthew Lampros: a great (little) book that helps you learn exactly what all the financial reports mean so you can read the WSJand understand it at a deeper level.
Best part was the one about cash flow from profit and how it departs from net income, the rest was prerequisite information.
When I began investing I realized I needed some guidance in how to pore through the financial data. I ordered this. It was helpful in guiding me through statements.
pretty much what the title says it is. and good at that.
from motley fool
