https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10791.Papa_Hemingway
So what we get here is Ernest Hemingway at his best and, perhaps, life at its finest, with adventure, lovely women, good friends, good food and drink, beautiful surroundings and honest fun.
It's life as we wish we could live it--at least until the pleasure gets sucked out of it for E.H. and he kills himself.
What it gives us are the high spirits and high life of living large.
It is a bible on how to live, albeit with a tragic ending that in no way diminishes the beauty of what preceded it.
(Note: I read this book decades ago and now have reread it with perhaps even more pleasure.)
I actually enjoyed this intriguing memoir. It put more of a human face on Hemingway’s Uber-masculine exterior. And what made this book even more meaningful for me was, I just finished some Hemingway stories that took place around the time this memoir took place.The main thing to remember that this was a memoir about Hotchner’s friend. Not a biography of Hemingway.
Banalūs prisiminimai apie žurnalisto bendravimą su rašytoju E. Hemingvėjumi. Įdomiausi knygos epizodai - apie romanų, apsakymų, herojų sukūrimo aplinkybes, atskleisti E. Hemingvėjaus.
The structure is very smartly done- each chapter is headed by not only a new year, but a new location, as Hotchner often traveled with Hemingway on his exotic adventures.
Each chapter offers a more complex view of Hemingway than a jacket cover- a man of enormous vitality, but also of black moods and self destructive tendencies.
With every hunt, fishing trip, bullfight, and hike, we see Hemingway unravel, then build himself up, and finally, in 1961, grow so depressed that he takes his own life.
This book is not a tribute to Hemingway, but the actions of his amazing life point clearly to what kind of man he was.
"What do you think happens to a man going on sixty-two when he realizes that he can never write the books and stories he promised himself?
Or do any of the other things he promised himself in the good days?" [...] "Hotch, if I can't exist on my own terms, then existence is impossible.
That is how I've lived, and that is how I must live—or not live."*Ernest had had it right: Man is not made for defeat.
Man can be destroyed but not defeated.
For whatever reason, Hemingway, at least from Hotchner's telling, took a liking to him and did not treat him in the shabby way he treated a lot of people.Even so, I still don't find Hemingway to be all that nice of a person in Hotchner's biography.
Certainly writing a biography about a famous writer you were personal friends with guaranteed getting known.Throughout the book Hotchner refers to Hemingway as "Papa".
It is written with the warm affection of someone who knew Hemingway personally and carried on a close relationship with him in his old age, when he had once again invented himself, this time as "Papa Hemingway".
This bio does not tell the story of Hemingway from birth till death in a distinctive timeline.
It is written by A.E. Hotchner, one of Ernest's closest friends.
It recounts events that Hotchner and Ernest shared together, many grandiose tales that define who Hemingway was and how he built his larger than life persona.
Epic stories that are hard to believe actually happened, certifying Hemingway as the ultimate "man's man".
It is not all positive however, a good quarter of the book is dedicated to chronicling the demise of the famous author; his mental deterioration and many attempts at suicide before he finally succeeded and ended a life that was full of the highest highs and even lower lows.
Interesting memoir about one of the most interesting (and one of my favorite!) writers of all time, written by a member of Hemingway's inner circle.
Reading about a great man's downward spiral was definitely sad and at times uncomfortable.
I always thought of Hemingway as a depressed alcoholic and never realized how deep his mental illness and delusions were.
The middle dragged for me big time as I got tired of reading about bullfighting and the endless parties.
But all in all a good read.
a biography of Hemingway, supposedly one "they" wanted to stop. It was certainly interesting reading but there was quite a lot of speculation. Not the best bio on Hemingway.
This one took me a while to read but mostly because it got interrupted by health books. Hotchner gave a very clear picture of his experience of Hemingway through decades. He some incite into Hemingway's view of his own writing and writing process, which I find fascinating. Hotchner also offers a view of Hemingway's decline into mental illness, which was heartbreaking.
Great bio of one of my very favorite writers <3
I was put off at the outset by the author's 1999 new preface (in the edition I read) which takes, in my view, a low blow at Mary Hemingway, airing his old man's petty gripes with Hemingway's widow, who, conveniently enough, was dead and unable to refute his remarks.
I would have thought that someone with a ringside seat would have been able to comment more thoroughly on this - did Hemingway express remorse or regret for the life he had lived, a fear of death, self-pity?
Oh dear!Ernest is a bit of a bore and I've only waded to the end of the first chapter!!!!I certainly don't doubt the sincerity of his biographer, A.E.Hotchner, and it will be because of him that I will plough on in whatever form, whether skimming or picking out bits and pieces.I decided to read this, languishing on my shelf for the last 40 years, because my love of Paris led me to read EH's "A Movable Feast".That was another disappointment, but I was prepared to do a bit more research before pointing the bone.
That alone would condemn his intellectual credentials.This book may serve its worth as a case study due to Hotchner's honesty.Lay on, MacDuff!!!!LATER: Researching to do SOME justice to Ernie re the Spanish Civil War, having read that he fought for the Loyalists...Republicans or Royalists?
In 1948 A.E. Hotchner was dispatched from New York to Havana by Cosmopolitan Magazine to do a story on Hemingway.
Travel was a big part of Hemingway’s life.
Spain was his favorite destination and the Spanish lifestyle was reflected in his writing from ‘The Sun Also Rises’ to various short stories.There was no one thing in this book that defined the Hotchner Hemingway relationship unless you consider brotherly love.
That kindness is on full display toward the end as Hotchner describes Hemingway’s mental path to self-destruction.Papa Hemingway is a must read human tragedy.
The book was mildly entertaining, but repetitive as the story/trainwreck progresses.
Hotchner is such a sycophantic character himself it added to my annoyance.
Too much ink is wasted by Hotchner portraying the rich and famous around Hemingway and marveling at Hemingway's self-destructive profligate lifestyle.
The book is well-written, but the self-parody Hem had become by this stage in his life deserved some insightful analysis not an attempt at a Moveable Feast in the nightmare years.
Carlos Baker and Hemingway's own letters are still the best you can do with Hemingway.
I would not skip this book, but don't expect too much.
One of the advantages of getting old is that when you discover in the first few pages of a book that you have read it before, it matters not the least. This is Hemingway's life told in a loving way, as the authors best attempt to portray Hemingway as he himself would like his image to be advertised. Even with the adulation, a good read. Had this book on a pile with the book underneath being Jim Harrison's memoir. Remarkable how similar they look in their 60's. A thesis to be had in their comparison.
Started out fun and exciting. Hotchner gives a great deal of insight in what it was to be Hemingway's friend and what he liked to do: From bullfights and Horse racing and Boxing to drinking to women and most importantly what his writing meant to him. But near the end, as in in the end of his life, Hotchner's book became very depressing. But I guess that was the point. A great book for big Hemingway fans
Terrific book; devastating at the close. We never seem to get over Hemingway.
A lot of people want to go with Jeffrey Meyers' biography, which is certainly more critical of Hemingway and perhaps more honest for that. Baker is the author's best biography, though it was written in the late 60s and thus misses a lot of critical literature; Hotchner's Papa is more of a memoir, detailing his relationship with Hemingway and celebrating a legacy. As such, it's hardly critical of the author at all. As with all Hemingway, however, if you take it for what it is, it's genius, and a truly wonderful read.
I read this book shortly after it was published.
In the decades since, it remains a fascinating look at one of our greatest American authors.
I recall hoping to catch a reason for Hemingway's descent into despair.
He had a larger-than-life, machismo, persona - yet ultimately did not live by what he wrote ("The world breaks everyone, and afterward, some are stronger at the broken places").
Believing he had wrung out everything he could from life, he committed suicide at age 61, without hope - meaning, without any trust in God, whom he ever failed to acknowledge.
A sad, tragic end, indeed!
Autor tutvus Hemingwayga 1948. aastal ja nad olid lähedased sõbrad kuni kirjaniku surmani. See tähendab, et antud biograafia kajastab Hemingway elu viimast 13 aastat, mis olid värvikad, kuid järjest keerulisemad. Kirjasõna kvaliteedi kallal saaks nokkida, kui tahaks, aga ma ei taha. Raamatu väärtus on intiimne pilk suurkuju eraellu, mis ei olnud sugugi pilvitu. Olles selle raamatu abil Hemingway enda keerulist natuuri ja elule vaadet natuke rohkem tundma saanud, tekkis tahtmine mitmeid tema teoseid uuesti läbi lugeda.
A true story of the rise and descent of a great American literary figure. It's so sad that Hemingway did not get the help he needed for his long-term brain injuries. The docs did the best they knew how at the time, but unfortunately, their treatments made him worse. If Hemingway were alive today, his medical outcome might have been different, then again, he might not have the right social/historical conditions that pushed him to be a great writer. Such a tragedy.
Wonderfully personal view into the second half of Hemingway’s life. The last third is pretty tough as it details the final few years of my literary hero’s descent. Wonderfully written without the hyperbole of most Hemingway biographies.
If A.E. Hotchner wrote all our biographies heaven and hell would be overrun with saints.
Being one of Hemingways close friends was often fun, exciting and often intense, but not for the feint of heart. "Papa' expected total loyalty in return. Hotchner describes his life and times with Ernest with clarity and offers an excellent insight on his inner thoughts, method of writing; and his decline that lead to his suicide, which had been a mystery to me. The comments/review made by contributor Rich Skwiot captures Hotchner's book the best in my opinion.
I liked this short memoir, this book along with all of the other memoirs and period books are putting the pieces of a '1920 Paris' scene for me... Loved the reader.
Interesting story of most famous Writer. Sadly it ended tragically. But at the end you could feel that the story will end up in such way.
They traveled together, including raucous and risky forays into the bull-fighting ferias of Spain (once Hotchner even was goaded into acting as a matador in an actual bullfight), fishing the waters off Cuba Papa had prowled seeking U-boats, hunted in Idaho, ran with the bulls in Pamplona, and more.
For fourteen years, Hotchner and Hemingway shared their thoughts and careers with Hotch acting as agent and representative.
This part seeks to unravel why Ernest Hemingway took his own life, shooting himself at his Idaho home while his wife Mary slept.
In this book, you see all of the flaws that made Hemingway such the complex person that he was.
The drinking, the fighting, the relationships (and how quickly Hemingway would end a relationship).The complexities in Hemingway's personality and life is such an interesting tale, and it's what makes this book so good.
There's no glossing over of the facts, Hotchner doesn't paint Hemingway as anything more than he was: a complex man with many flaws and many strengths.I highly recommend this book to anyone who has any interest in the man that Hemingway was, beyond what he wrote and what the stories he told.
This was truly an interesting read and a very good book.
This is a personal memoir by Hotchner, who was a close friend of Hemingway's throughout the last 14 years of his life.
Most who are familiar with Hemingway and his work will not be surprised to learn that he liked to fish, drink, make love, and go to bull fights.
That is fine with more famous people, like Ava Gardner and Gary Cooper, but there are other people who have a close relationship with Hemingway who just appear in the book without any introduction.
