https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/142459.Flashman_in_the_Great_Game
I am happy to report that readers who enjoyed the first four books will not be disappointed.One of my very favorite things about the Flashman series is the well-researched history on display.
This book was no exception, as I knew absolutely nothing about the 1857 rebellion, which was a significant episode in Indian history that marked the shift from East India Company control of the subcontinent to the British Raj. As usual, Flashman is thrust into the heart of major historical events, from the outbreak of mutiny at Meerut (native soldiers objected to new cartridges which they believed were greased with pig fat, the biting of which was against their religion) to the disastrous Siege of Cawnpore.
It’s a great ending to another very strong entry in the Flashman series.
Flashy just gets worse. Or better. Depending on your point of view.Okay it's about as far from PC as you can get. And if that is going to bother you give the Flashman oeuvre a miss. But you will be missing a real laugh out loud treat.Humour underpinned with scholarship. It's a mixture I find irresistible.
On the one side, this is a book in which Flashman seems more human what with his rational look into the native soldier's grievances and falling in love with a Rani (which is very unusual) and the unfolding of events during that grim years of 1857, 'Flashman in the Great game' seems a little out of place with all the other bawdy adventures of Flashman.Nonetheless, it is a must read as Fraser tries to balance the view of the British towards the 'Mutiny' as they call it with the genuine grievances of the native soldier which caused the bloody rising in the first place.
Sometimes I'm annoyed at the contrivance of inserting a fictional character into famous historical events, but with Flashman it works very well.
I'm totally willing to believe that he got caught up in the 1857 Indian Mutiny (or India's First War of Independence, depending on your point of view) and lived to tell the tale - including surviving the Siege of Cawnpore and subsequent massacre.Flashy is just as arrogant, cowardly and lecherous as ever; and just as wry an observer of human nature.
The subject matter does make this episode darker than most.
Flashman's selfish nature is toned down a bit as he's genuinely disturbed by the atrocities he witnesses.A fascinating, informative, and hilarious read, as always with this great set of books.
Well, it is a thundering good read when taken on its own, and I certainly wouldn__t deprive anyone who is taking on the Flashman saga from missing this episode, but from the perspective of both a writer and someone who knows a little about this particular episode of history, I find it wanting in numerous ways.First is how Fraser picks up the story from the preceding book.
It was while reading Flashman and the Great Game that I realized Fraser uses the exact same formula__only he uses it to illuminate history, whereas Burroughs used it to fuel his imagination.
My personal favourite outing for George McDonald Fraser's eponymous cad pitches the one time bully of Tom Brown's School Days into the maelstrom of the Indian Rebellion of 1857 (the Victorians preferred to call it a Mutiny because it sounded nicer).
Flashman is as lacivious and cowardly as ever but finds himself repeatedly forced to fight for his life amid the unfolding carnage.
Fraser proves himself as much a master of battle scenes as he is of comedy and also manages the difficult trick of maintaining the laugh quotient whilst providing an unflinching look at an often horrifyingly dark episode in British and Indian history.
One for history and humour buffs alike.
While that's a factor in Fraser's fifth outing with Flashman, the action and historical detail of the book center more around the Sepoy Rebellion, in which terrible atrocities were committed by both the Indians and the British colonialists.Flashman describes them all.
As usual, footnotes provide entertaining and illuminating commentary on the historical accuracy of his descriptions.
As usual, there's not a lot for the defenders of political correctness to like.Most of the reviewers on this site, me included, observe that the entire Flashman series is politically incorrect under current standards for these things.
The author uses the process to entertain and educate and it works wonderfully.Initially, this is Flashy sent to India in a counter intelligence position as his old foe from the last book - Nicholas Ignatieff - is agitating the locals.
Flashman's wife - Elspeth - is as bad as he is.
The Indiands butchered women and children but the english wanted to dole out justice with in the most barbaric fashion.In a new device, the author comments on a real life painting and points out that Flashman is in it - mounted on a horse with his arm aloft.
Fifth entry in the series sees Flashy mixed up in the Indian Mutiny, from romancing a ravishing Rani to matching wits with a crafty Russian spy, all the while avoiding murderous Sepoys and rampaging English troops. This is easily the most serious installment, with very graphic and harrowing descriptions of violence and atrocities on both sides of the Mutiny; even Flashman is compelled to act heroic and noble in spots. Lots of memorable set-pieces (especially Flashman's trip to Balmoral) but the best moment is Flashman's reaction to the publication of Tom Brown's Schooldays!
Another ripping adventure yarn featuring Harry Flashman, this time on hand to experience the worst of the Sepoy Rebellion in India.
In an age of post post-colonialism it is difficult to look back on the British Empire, or the American for the matter, without a reflexive cringe, but at the same time it is a fascinating period.
Nonetheless, Flashman in the Great Game is a rousing good story that has been well handled by the author and may encourage an interesting debate about the Indian Mutiny and what place in world history it is to occupy.
This book covers the horrors of the 1857 Sepoy Mutiny in India.
The company ruled the land by using indigenous soldiers -- called Sepoys -- under the direction of British officers.
The British fooled themselves into thinking that the Sepoys were loyal to their white officers and the queen, when in fact both Hindu and Muslim soldiers hated the foreign intruders and their attempts to Christianize them.
Unlike his portrayal in other books in the Flashman series, in this book he displays sensitivity to the horrors of war.
Of course, he tries to get out of it, but if he did that, there wouldn't be a story.
Cue the arrival of Count Ignatief and lots of danger that only Flashy can get himself into, along with various beautiful women who he shouldn't really end up in bed with, but of course does.
Sure he's scared when he's in danger, he tries to keep his head down, and he runs away when he can, but who wouldn't?
As a result the text of Flashman’s memoirs is peppered with references leading to detailed end notes.
These notes let the reader know whether or not Flashman’s account of events in the “Indian Mutiny” are accurate, and if not how they deviate from accepted historical wisdom.
I found that this device was very irritating, and spoiled the reading of a moderately exciting, and at times bawdy and humorous, story.If this book is supposed to be a novel, a historical afterword without endnotes would have sufficed.
I think that Flashman at the Charge was definately funnier.
Flashman in the Great Game is peppered with the usual hilarity, however the tone of the novel is much more sentimental and reverent towards the historical experience.
It awakened a powerful curiosity in me to learn more about British India (I reccommend the movie Kim to anyone who is interested in The Great Game).
The writing was supurb as usual, Fraser is one author I can always count on when I need to blow through an entertaining read and learn something without thinking about it.
But the book is really about the Indian Mutiny, which breaks out during Flashman’s stay in India.
Due to him being hunted by thuggee assassins, Flashman is hiding out under cover as an Indian soldier as the mutiny breaks out.
He then sheds his cover in time to experience some of the worst massacres perpetrated by the Indians against their former masters.
This might be my favorite Flashman story so far, I like the setting and while being an adventure novel it also offers a good analysis of the origins of the Indian Mutiny.
I'm a big fan of the Flashman series.
Fun, absurd, and with a sharp eye toward historical detail, George MacDonald Fraser always manages to capture the sense and hypocrisy of the Victorian age.
And the author does a very deft job of inserting Flashman into some of the greatest military disasters of the 19th century without really distorting the underlying historical reality.
This one focuses on the so-called Indian Mutiny -- a brutal 1857 revolt against British rule in India that is little known in this country.
I've read it at least twice before, and that alone would justify my four-star rating.
This time it's Flashman's account of the Indian Mutiny of 1857.
Also, like Fraser at his best, the writing is vivid and energetic -- the description of the Siege of Cawnpore will stay with me a long time.
Reading this sent me off checking some of the historical facts, especially those around the siege, which I discovered to be horrifyingly accurate.
Left me wanting to read more about the Mutiny one day.
The racism is at an all-time high in this book, but that's no surprise to anyone who knows old Flashy...
This continues to suffer from what bothered me in the last installment in the series - less interesting characterization which also leads to less interesting poltics - thus leaving a somewhat disjointed pulpy historical (albeit meticulously so) adventure book. That said, there are some moments of extremely good, distubring writing and atmosphere with the various minor characters and situations Flashman comes across in his passage through the Indian Mutiny. (The main female character is a little too much like every other feisty exotic sexy chick in a Flashman book.)
This one deals with the great mutiny in india in 1857/58 and the mysterious and alluring maharani of jhansi, a leader of the mutiny. This is a great series. And the obnoxiousness of Flashman as a character is, I think, not only exaggerated (he's really not that bad) but it also seems to let Fraser make some definite criticisms by comparison of English culture in the 19th century and how ALL englishmen treated women and foreigners.
Once again, Harry Flashman's falsely acquired reputation send him off for a diplomatic mission to Colonial India. A Russian foil, the Great India Uprising and a beautiful Indian princess await him. On the plus side, the Flashman got to romp with the princess, on the bad side, the Flashman got the rack, the pit and a few new scars. The best one of the series so far.
I'm loving these books because I'm learning much about Victorian history, and many of the figures after which many Melbourne streets are named. I knew little of the Indian Mutiny - it's brutal and fascinating. And Flashy as always, self-deprecating, hilarious, and rogering many ladies.
At least two characters featured in the novel about the Crimean War also appeared in ”GREAT GAME” - Count Nicholas Ignatieff, a ruthless Russian intelligence office; and a former schoolmate of Flashman’s named Harry “Scud” East, who had also been a fellow prisoner-of-war of Flashman during the Crimean War.The Sepoy Rebellion had been a bloody and emotional conflict for both Britons and Indians alike.
It's the usual blend of outrageous antics and meticulous research that sees GMF take a character invented by someone else, drop him into real historical events, and create something magical.
Thrilling and informative, intriguing and disgraceful, Flashman is an absolute gift.It is worth bearing in mind that this book was written in the 1960s, and is set in the 1850s, and as a consequence is rife with attitudes and racial epithets that don't make for comfortable reading for modern audiences.
Another great Flashman book!
Typically highly politically incorrect, and crazy funny.
The first third of this is a bit slow, but then it really picks up as the Indian Mutiny begins.
This portrayal of Flashman is him at his most vulnerable, and also most brave.
He clearly has real feelings for Lakshmibai, Maharani of Jhansi, he fights with nobility, but he is also his usual, cowardly self.
The Indian Mutiny was a, literal, bloody mess; once again George MacDonald Fraser does a great job of giving a history lesson, with laugh-out-loud humour, within a alternate-history text.The Flashman novels are my favourite non-sci-fi series of books.
This was a rather unpleasant adventure and not amusing, as most Flashman books are. He's been sent to India to discover if Russia is planning to help India break with Great Britain. He woos a beautiful maharani and goes in disguise as an Indian. My dislike is for the gruesomeness of what happened in the 1857 Indian Mutiny. Many English civilians were slaughtered, including women and children, and there's a bit too much description of that. I've liked the previous books but this was too grim.
Flashman never disappoints, even if this novel is much darker than the others. I suppose that can be excused considering the historical event it's based on. Our "hero" is even affected, finding himself doing some very un-Flashy-like things, like falling in love and granting clemency. Still funny and exciting, though.
Helt fascinerande skickligt upplagd och så välgjord! Och otroligt underhållande (och hemsk)... Redaktör MacDonald Fraser har verkligen gjort ett fantastiskt jobb med de återfunna papperen med Flashmans minnesanteckningar. Som Observer recenserar: "Remains in a class of his own".
Great Series - not for the easily offended.
Good old Flashie always delivers!
