https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/169871.Talking_to_Dragons
3.5/5 strsThis is my third time reading this one, and I took down half a star.
Not because it's bad, but because it's quite weak comparing to the first 3 books.The characters are still good and the humor is still there - the whole plot is just so repetitive.
I was getting bored a lot, especially in the middle of the book.Also, the reunion of son and father wasn't very reunion like?
I wish he would have at least hugged him.I have always felt meh about this 4rth book.
Not bad, not good - jus't didn't care that much about it.My WEBSITEMy INSTAGRAMMy WORDPRESS BLOG
! My feelings are just out of control after reading the last book of this series.
I think persons who haven't read its previous books will also enjoy this book.
But if you have read its previous books, you will understand it better and things may get predictable for you.
I may get new things from that]At the end of its previous book King of Enchanted Forest was captured by the Society of Wizards in some secret place in the Castle.
I didn't like this fact because neither the Protagonist did any thing to kill wizards permanently nor the Antagonist did any thing to get rid of melting by Protagonist in its previous books.
Please read those books prior to reading this review.Talking to Dragons is the fourth and final installation in the Enchanted Forest Chronicles.
Afterwards, Cimorene comes to Daystar with a magical sword and sends him off into the Enchanted Forest with no instruction.I really enjoyed Talking to Dragons but I found it...not as interesting.
I would consider Talking to Dragons the most conventional and "canon-like" book in the series.
As I said, very "canon-like."All in all, I enjoyed Talking to Dragons (a lot more than Calling on Dragons!!) and I'm sad to see the series end.
The weakest of the series (and, surprisingly, the first book written chronologically). Daystar doesn't have a lot of emotional reaction to anything much. Shiara is rather spectacularly selfish - I rarely dislike what would amount to a 'defiant underdog' character, but she's just not enjoyable..
A very entertaining series of fantasy books for children - of all ages, as the familiar cliche says - that have many elements of classic fairy tales while the author offers us a hilarious parody of well-known myths, legends and fairy tales.
Surely in some places this humour is not particularly apt, there are some silly moments but in general the series maintains a good level, especially in the first two.
So this series might not be a very great thing but are definitely four books that offer relaxation and put a smile in the face.
Well, there is NO emotional response or thoughts or anything when at the very end of his journey he finds out he's a prince and meets his father, a king he just saved, for the first time.
What a catch, Daystar!Last, but not least, there's the fact that there isn't any compelling reason for Daystar to go see the dragon or hang out in the dangerous forest [thus the entire book shouldn't have really happened].
That's compelling reason to risk your life and meet the dragon king.
So even though this is chronologically the last book in the series, PC Wrede wrote it first - the first 3 are prequels.
- anyone who had read them would already know what happened.Anyway, this book is nice enough, although it does feel like the odd one out when I think of Dealing With Dragons being so in-your-face about Yes Princesses Can!
I do wish Morwen and Telemain had just stayed friends instead of being neatly tied up at the end.
And since we have such a good idea of who each one of them is, I can't imagine why Morwen would want to marry him.
I would have preferred that Wrede end this series with the third book...moving on to the second generation of characters is usually not as fun. For me, the motivation of the main character just didn't seem strong enough, and while I realize that this fantasy series is meant to be lighter in tone than some of its more dramatic counterparts, the characters' emotions were a trifle too understated for my taste.
This book made me so so happy right when I needed it. It's hilarious, I love the new mc's and a new dragon and kitten! Will there ever be more??
That was quite possibly the most emotionally unfulfilling story I've ever read.
I loved the first three. While this one had great humour the protagonist seemed too shallow for my liking, and the denouement too trite. A super series overall, somewhat dragged down by this final volume.
The story flowed effortlessly and managed to make perfect sense even with all the ridiculousness.The last book takes place roughly 16 years after the third one.
This time it’s Cimorene’s son, Daystar, we follow as he attempts to take the sword to the castle of Enchanted Forest.
It also explains why, when Daystar is told his parents’ story by them, it didn’t quite match what really happened in the first three books.
What he was told was actually very different.I’m not feeling the series-hangover yet but I will, I just know it.
However, I quickly realized that I enjoyed this book even better than the previous three in the trilogy, though it didn't have so much of the new magical ideas and items as the other ones.Daystar is now a teen and it's time for him to go help free his father, who has been magically bound his entire life.
Their adventures mean that they run into many of the characters we came to know and love through the trilogy; those adventures are not recapped until the very end of the book.
Daystar remains ignorant as people have to figure things out on their own when on a quest in the Enchanted Forest.All-in-all it was a excellent wrap-up and ending to the series.
And while I love a good middle grade fantasy story, I felt this one didn't have the complexity within the plot or characters that I would have liked, and that MG readers can handle.The main focus of this tale seemed to be to encourage politeness.
But, as a protagonist who will one day be king, at 16 I would have expected a wiser protagonist.Also, so many times I felt that the actions of the characters were over described, or that Wrede was trying to justify an action, when either the explanation was already obvious, or when a different action really should have been taken.And yet, overall, it's still a nice, quick read, with main characters who try to do the right thing.
I'm really glad I waited a few years to finish this series. This book picks up years after book three and has a new pov character. It meant everything I didn't remember mattered little towards my enjoyment of this story. I love how this series subverts fantasy tropes. It is funny and yet no-nonsense. I really enjoyed being back in this world. This is one of my favorite children's book series.
A bit too snug and settled for my taste. Perfect for tweens.
I did enjoy how polite Daystar was to everyone, but I began to despise Shiara by the end.
(I mean, if the bushes don’t like you…) She couldn’t even be grudgingly polite to the bushes after it was clear why they weren’t letting her out!
I doubt someone as polite as Daystar would’ve been so patient with her if this were a real life situation.So, in case you couldn’t tell, Shiara grated on my nerves a lot by the end.
If you read the previous books, then the explanations weren’t just obvious but grating.
Along the way, he meets evil wizards, a fire witch named Shiara, and a young talking dragon.The first time I started this book, I had not read any of the others.
In order to rescue the King and break the spell of the evil wizards, Daystar must not know the significance of the sword he's carrying.
If he knows the nature of the sword, the wizards can use a finding spell to find the sword.
And all four are really fun reads.This book was a satisfying conclusion to the series.
Right now I'm a bit confused.The story was alright but I felt like it wasn't as good as the other books. By 'good' I mean, well-plotted, funny or interesting. There were still some twists to the usual fairy tales but not as much as before and I got the feeling that it was mainly about Daystar and his sword. This is because (view spoiler)[ a voice keeps saying 'Hail the Bearer of the Sword!' and things like that which end up being redundant (hide spoiler)]Another thing which left me confused:The
This is because (view spoiler)[ a voice keeps saying 'Hail the Bearer of the Sword!' and things like that which end up being redundant  (hide spoiler)]Another thing which left me confused:The epilogue, which is sort of like a run-through of what happened in the previous books, was different from the story line of the third book.Differences:(view spoiler)[(1) I though that Mendenbar and Cimorene were already married when the sword was stolen!(2) I did NOT read about any tower in which the sword was kept in.(3) Antorell courted Cimorene- really?!?(4) Kazul and Cimorene went back to the castle together-didn't Kazul go first after dropping Cimorene and Morwen at the fire-witch's tower?
(hide spoiler)]I also felt like the older characters in the books weren't given enough time (like Cimorene and Mendenbar).
I missed 'seeing' the older characters.Oh and the plot twists weren't really that shocking since everything was sort of foretold in the third book.
We've also got a new narrator for this one: Daystar, a very polite, logical young man, whose mother slaps a sword in his hand and sends him off into the Enchanted Forest one day without really telling him why.
His mother is, of course, Queen Cimorene, and his dad's off in a magical coma, but Daystar doesn't know any of that.
This book's as good as the first in the series, and for the same reasons.
Daystar's plucky like his mom, good with magic like his dad, and just a smart, funny narrator.
He's also a first person narrator, which kept throwing me for some odd reason.
The fantasy setting is definitely for kids.
It's light, magical, and generally fun.
The "bad" characters are bad in a fairy-tale kind of way, and yet the archetypal hero and heroine's roles are complex enough to be interesting.
This novel takes many fairy-tale stereotypes and turns them on their heads.
No, this novel does not have the strongest prose, the most interesting settings, or the most fascinating characters.
But it's one of the most fun and light-hearted reads I've ever had the pleasure of owning, and that's why even a glance at this book never fails to bring a smile to my face.
It's been sixteen years since the events in Calling On Dragons and Daystar has been raised by his mother Cimorene, not knowing his true heritage.
When the wizards finally track them down, Cimorene sends Daystar with the magical sword into the Enchanted Forest on a mysterious quest.This was a little different, with Daystar being the first-person narrator.
I was a little annoyed that no one would tell him anything and everyone insisted on being vague and mysterious--there didn't seem to be much point to it except to make a better story.
I also though that the long-awaited family reunion was a bit lackluster--especially after seventeen years!
4.75 stars! Oh, I did so enjoy this conclusion, despite the fact I had to get used to the narration AND I did get a bit peevish about the way some of the things unfold. Still a great deal of fun though, and I loved the new characters a lot!
I enjoyed the first book in this series (Dealing with Dragons), but I became increasingly disappointed with the series. The last book was better than the third, but still lacked the quirky originality that I loved in the first book.
A bit better than the third one but not as good as the first 2.
This fell flat in many ways.
Maybe I should have read it first since it was written first.
In any case, the “prequels” were more full of life and hijinks and magic.
This just seemed like a summary of the other books, or that this could have been shorter?
Idk this is already short so maybe that’s not it.
But knowing what Daystar needed to do and all other related backstory before he knew it himself was frustrating and made reading this feel more like a chore.
I’m glad I read this series, though!
The gripping conclusion to the Enchanted Forest Chronicles does its best to wrap everything up and it was a lot of fun to read. My daughter and I have some great inside jokes (“alas, and woe is me, for I am in great distress”) and she especially liked being more omniscient than the protagonist. But it’s overly wordy and the way Daystar is polite to a fault made me want to shake him. Shiara is way more interesting. Also, I want WAY more details about Cimorene raising Daystar in exile as a single mother.
Another full cast recording that made this tale even more enjoyable than when I first read it several years ago. The entire series would be a great family read, especially if the adults helped a bit with the pronunciation of the character's names, and there are enough adventures to intrigue both boys and girls.
Funny, I didn't quite love this one as much as the other 3. It was neat to see how the author used the prequels I read to set up for the original story in this one...that she actually wrote first. I wonder if I would've been as engulfed in the story. Knowing all the back story definitely added to this one. I'm glad I stuck through all 4 books to the end...but my interest was lacking a tiny bit toward the end of this one, so I'm happy to move on!
I'm really glad I read these in chronological order, and not published order...
I'm quite sure I wouldn't have bothered with the other three if I'd read this first.
It's just alot less fun, and more just a generic fantasy coming of age story...
and not even a particularly good one.
Daystar was far less likeable than Cimorene et al, and Shiara was downright annoying.
I'm happy to know how the story ends, but really there's no question that the story and characters in the trilogy (which are all just minor, undeveloped names here) are far more interesting than they are here.
