https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11006902-the-mysterious-affair-at-styles-and-the-secret-adversary
3.5 estrelas para "A Primeira Investigação de Poirot" e 4 estrelas para "O Adversário Secreto"!Dois bons policiais que nos introduzem a duas grandes duplas de Agatha Christie: Poirot & Hastings e Tommy & Tuppence. E mais dois títulos para o ranking de Agatha Christie que estou a elaborar: https://thebooknitpicker.blogspot.pt/...:)
I'm a huge Christie fan, so I've decided to take up my reading of her in an orderly manner and start from the beginning, reading them in the order in which she published them.
The Mysterious Affair at Styles is her first novel and the world's introduction to Hercule Poirot and his sidekick Hastings.
The Secret Adversary is a novel of Tommy and Tuppence.
(No one is as observant as Miss Marple, I'm sorry!) Definitely worth a read for anyone who is a Christie fan, an Anglophile, a lover of classic mystery...
I have found that Agatha Christie's plots are so complicated and the clues so complex that I have a hard time remembering who actually was guilty.
This book introduces Hercule Poirot to her readers.
His character is so carefully delineated that it is hard to believe that he doesn't actually exist.
Her plots are complex, but all the clues are there to figure out who the murderer is if you can weed out the red herrings.
She also explains all the clues which point to someone else.
I've read too many mysteries where the reader is faced with red herrings which are never explained.
Finally finished this book after about 6 months.
It's not that the material isn't interesting, but that there is so much of it (800+ pages).
After the first three novels I started reading a few short stories between finishing one book and starting the next.
Considering that she started with such great material in The Mysterious Affair At Styles (Poirot), the short stories were a little bit of a let down.
The Secret Adversary (Tommy & Tuppence) reminded me of a Nancy Drew/Hardy Boys story.
Murder On the Links (Poirot) was another good novel that kept me guessing for awhile.
This was Agatha's first mystery novel... and it told to the whole world about her potential as a writer. It's easy to read, is has some romantic touches and even though the twist of events it's not as impressive as it is in other of her novels, it clearly makes you wonder towards the end.
Agatha Christie's first published novels were a joy to read.
In The Mystery Affair at Styles we are introduced to Hercule Poirot who uses his detective skills when Emily Inglethorp is poisoned.The second story is The Secret Adversary featuring the young adventurers Tommy and Tuppence .
I loved reading their exploits as they are hired to find Jane Finn who is believed to have received papers for safe keeping at the time of the sinking of the Luistiania.A must for those we love getting "lost in time" and for mystery fans.
It is Agatha Christie after all.
In my opinion the Queen of mysteries.
Guess and Guess Again!!I have to say that I really enjoyed each one of these stories . I love Poiret and his little white brain cells and how he dissects everyone under a microscope🔬 . I also found the second story with Tuppence and Tommy to be quite interesting. That being said I love Agatha Christy! 🔬🔬
Dated, but nonetheless magnificentTuppence and Tommy: The dated bits were, by and large, lots of fun. And, honestly, considering the fact that this book is nearly ONE HUNDRED YEARS OLD, the first 'T&T' novel reads remarkably like something that could have been written last week.
I'm ashamed to say I'm having trouble getting in to this series. I love Tommy and Tuppence, but I don't have the same connection to Poirot. On paper, I should love it, but I can't connect for some reason. It's obviously well written! Maybe I'll give it another try in a few years.
Great read. I didn't realize Ms. Christie wrote other books besides the Poirot and Jane Marple mysteries. This story was great fun, with suspects everywhere! Impressive. I really enjoyed this book and couldn't put it down!
Review for the 'Secret Adversary'.A fun, light read. Agatha knows how to lead the reader astray and then double back on you. Don't get upset with her - it's all in good humor.
4 starOnly read second as I've read the first before and wasn't in mood for it again right now. Some complicated twists here.
The explanation behind whodunnit was too intricate to be believed
A fun read Nice twists and turns. Engaging characters. You can’t help but imagine the accents as you read. I enjoyed it immensely.
A real humdingerI love how invested I get in these stories. The plot twists and suspense make it necessary to refrain from skipping ahead just for peace of mind.
Reading Challenge category: a book by Agatha Christie
Great authorI always enjoy the stories of Hercule Poirot and these were no different. Well written and enjoyable little mysteries. Never tire of Agatha Christie books.

Both good reads, I enjoyed the Secret Adversary the most of these two.
I was especially enamored of "The Mysterious Affair at Styles" (Poirot's first book), because "Curtain" (Poirot's last book) is one of my favorite Christie books, and I had thought that the earlier book was just corny and cliche'.
But, I was surprised to see that I liked it much better than I thought I would, and it wasn't at all corny.
"The Secret Adversary" features two of my favorite Christie characters: Tommy and Tuppence before they were Mr and Mrs Beresford.
"The Secret Adversary" is Tommy and Tuppence at their best, but beware, this is not one of those books with the clever solution such as Christie is know for.
Christie was one of the inventors of the genre, and she does not disappoint.
Most were short stories, so they were easy to finish if you didn't have much time available.
The only caveat is that she reflects the easy, casual, unconscious racism of the time, showing up in this collection in one story in regard to Asians.
I enjoyed meeting Tommy and Tuppance in their first appearance, and enjoyed the Poirot stories.
If you're a fan of mystery novels, then you need to read Christie as she was the one who taught all the others how to do it.
Na sequência do êxito obtido pela colecção vampiro, a editora Livros do Brasil iniciou na década de oitenta uma série de colecções dedicadas a alguns autores específicos e designadas genericamente por Vampiro Gigante.
Uma das colecções de mais sucesso foi a Obras Completas de Agatha Christie, que se prolongou por 40 números.Não sendo exactamente completas, pois faltaram alguns contos, tratou-se no entanto da quase totalidade da obra desta escritora no que se refere ao género policial..A colecção começou com A primeira investigação de Poirot/ O adversário secreto e terminou com Cai o pano e Crime adormecido.(Texto retirado na internet)
Three novels and 20-ish short stories.
All of the short stories and two of the novels were about the inestimable Hercule Poirot and his little grey cells.
Some of the short stories I had a little trouble following the logic, but that might be due to my being extremely tired at the time of reading.
Some of the stories are a bit deus ex machina, and that's a little disappointing.
Overall, though, the stories make sense.If you're into mystery at all, you could do much worse than the queen.
Highly recommended.I really wish there were a readily-available Volume 2 of this series.
I do love a good post-war England for my setting, but 850 pages is a bit long. I was fooled into thinking this was mostly a collection of novels with a few short stories interspersed. Not true. I enjoyed the novels. They kept my interest. The short stories were a bit tedious, and I skimmed the last 15% (I love my Kindle) of the book. Private Investigator Poirot, at first quirky, felt a little mean-spirited by the end. This would be a good book to pick up periodically, but I would not recommend reading it front-to-back.
This collection is great for when you want masterful writing that you can pick up and put down since many of the mysteries are short.
I enjoyed this book thoroughly although it took quite some time to read.
I gave it 4 stars just because it isn't the best of Agatha Christie but that said - a four star for her is probably a 5 compared to many modern authors.
(Just want my 5 stars to be the best of the best.) I enjoyed it.
Great to have for summer or anytime reading!
Just received a Nook Tablet for Christmas and this was the first book I purchased! I read all the Agatha Christie books my teesy local library had when I was in high school, so I am definitely a fan of her work. This volume contains 25 of Christies early stories. The first 2 are novel length--our introductions to Hercule Poirot and Tommy & Tuppence--and the remaining titles are a collection of short stories. It was a delightful group of little mysteries...I can't wait for the other volumes to come out!
Não importa o tempo que passe ou as vezes que leia, estes livros não deixam de me fascinar pela sua actualidade.A primeira vez que li este livro foi há 20 anos, e agora ao relê-lo voltei a ficar embrenhada da primeira à última página.Poirot » as suas aventuras, a sua personalidade e a sua forma de pensar continuam a ser uma verdadeira maravilha de lerTommy e Tuppence » este casal e as suas aventuras são sempre uma surpresa e um entretimento
Selera orang berbeda beda, jadi jangan menghakimi saya kalau saya sangat menyukai buku ini walau bagi sebagian orang buku ini curang dengan memberi tahu segalanya di akhir cerita, tapi tidak dengan saya, well... kalau mengenal gaya penceritaan Agatha yang memasukkan juga unsur psikologi seseorang maka buku ini menjadi masuk akal dan 'adil' bagi para pembaca.
November 6, 2015Read The Secret Adversary and quite enjoyed it! My first foray into the Tommy and Tuppence world. As always, Agatha Christie is a master storyteller, even in her first novels! All the clues are there to figure it out but she still keeps you guessing up to the very end! This will stay on my "currently reading" shelf until I solve all the mysteries within!
Besides the racism *shudder*, the other problem with this edition is that The Mysterious Affair at Styles has illustrations which are not reproduced in this version. Rather annoying, though not as annoying as the racism.
