https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3044028-lawrence-and-the-arabs
It's about a fascinating character, written by one of my favorite authors--a personal friend of Lawrence's.
And I did like parts: the beginning and the end when Graves talked about Lawrence's early life and his life after the WWI campaign with the Arabs.
The middle sagged and I found myself skimming over the blow by blow descriptions of (it felt like) nearly every raid or battle that Lawrence engaged in with the Arab uprising.
I wanted to know what motivated and inspired Lawrence and his Arab friends and foes.
I think Graves' version of Lawrence's life suffers from his personal friendship.
Although somewhat dated, a very enjoyable biography of T.E. Lawrence and his work with the Arabs. I coming to believe if those dividing up the spoils of World War I had listened to Lawrence many of the issues we face today in the world would have come to a head sooner and be done with. Overall excellent work for 1920's...
All the blowback started here.


I even purchased a copy of "Seven Pillars of Wisdom", but never managed to read it.I didn't realize that Robert Graves, an excellent writer I have previously read, had written probably the best account of the man.
Graves biography is very sympathetic to Lawrence and as with such figures of historic importance, the facts and significance of the Arab campaign have been argued back and forth over the years.
I am much more interested in the singular character of the man, and here I think Graves is best.
Grave's great ability as writer and his keen intelligence give a great description of Lawrence the man.

Well written, almost chatty in places. Almost no one else had better access to Lawrence and this is written after WWI but before Lawrence's death avoiding the hagiography that was to come. Highly recommended but start with a good modern biography as Graves can wander around the timeline & expects the reader to already have a knowledge of Lawrence's Middle Eastern campaigns.
I found this unabridged audiobook on Hoopla Digital. Pleasantly surprised to discover that Robert Graves wrote a full-length book on the life of his friend, T.E. Lawrence, in the late 1920s. It's always edifying to read (or in my case, hear) one very knowledgeable & cultured man's views of another such person and his life of action.
I had heard of Lawrence of Arabia many times in print and popular media, but had never taken the opportunity to find out about him. This book, from my Uncle Gary's collection, was enjoyable to read and very informative about the events which form Lawrence's legend. Thanks Uncle Gary!
Most admirable..
A tribute to a heroic friend...
1927, unusual without effort to be, love is of God from towards and of, study peculiarities of men.
Not as good as Lawrence's own account in Seven Pillars of Wisdom. First half excellent but then becomes a bit tedious. Still a great book by a great author.
I loved the movie - this is better...Good writing and some depth to what made Lawrence tick
