https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1412138.Iron_Kissed
I fucking cried like a big baby made of baby tears and the only down side to this whole novel was the very last sentence. Don't think she was ready for that step AT ALL but still... Someone give me a hug! *runs off to cry some more*
I'm just going to put this on all Mercy books because I love them all ❤️
Review first posted on Fantasy Literature: Patricia Briggs, who has explored werewolf and vampire societies in the first two volumes of her MERCY THOMPSON urban fantasy series, turns her attention to fae society in this third volume.
In the second book, Blood Bound, Mercy had been lent a powerful knife, a fae treasure, by Zee, her former boss and a fae, to kill a demon-ridden vampire.
In this case, however, the fae are using the reservation to hide magic that would alarm humans, including magical links to Underhill, the fae world.Zee asks Mercy to help investigate the serial murders of seven fae on the reservation, using her sharp coyote sense of smell.
The book that committed me to continuing the series.Zee, Mercy's mechanic mentor, needs the help of her nose investigating a recent death on the fae reservation.
Next thing Mercy knows is that Zee is being held in the human jail as the primary suspect in the POI's murder.
Mercy, of course, can't bear to have her innocent friend blamed, so she continues to investigate the murders, bringing her to the attention of a number of powerful fae.
When it comes to plotting, there was a much better balance of interesting things happening without reliance on dramatic, life-threatening events.
Patricia Briggs has a 7-book deal for her Mercy Thompson series and book three has shown that not only does she know exactly what she's doing, but that we can trust her.
The second,  Blood Bound, centers on the vampires, including Mercy's quirky Scooby Doo loving friend Stefan.
In this third installment, coyote shape shifter and VW mechanic Mercy Thompson is called in to help the fae solve a series of murders on the local fae reservation.
Soon after, her friend Zee is arrested for the murder and, just like that, Mercy's in the thick of it, determined to clear Zee's name no matter what.
A little more tension reading this one, because I knew what was coming.
You’ve won my heart Adam!As you can probably guess from the title, the mystery here revolves around the fae.
As I said it was heartbreaking and intense for Mercy and I’m sure the after effects will haunt her in the future.
The situation with Adam, Samuel and Mercy is finally resolved and I’m thrilled with how things turned out.
I can’t wait to see how it impacts Mercy and her friends in the coming books.
Every time you run, Mercy.
The 3rd book in the enchanting Mercy Thompson Series and the more I get to like Mercy….   This is an intense and emotional story.Mercy becomes involved in some dangerous things when she becomes involved in the fae world and politics in her quest to save her former mentor and fae, Zee. Filled with nerve-wracking moments, suspense and tension – you just can’t wait for turning the next page to finding out what happens now!!! You kept guessing until the very end and it’s certainly not what you expec
This is an intense and emotional story.Mercy becomes involved in some dangerous things when she becomes involved in the fae world and politics in her quest to save her former mentor and fae, Zee. Filled with nerve-wracking moments, suspense and tension – you just can’t wait for turning the next page to finding out what happens now!!!
You kept guessing until the very end and it’s certainly not what you expect!!The world building continues growing and it’s becoming more and more interesting with all the different characters.We finally get to see Mercy making up her mind about the man she really loves…and I was beyond happy with her decision!!!!A great and fabulous read.
The heat is on as the pressure to choose between two werewolves who want her as their mate: her former flame, Samuel and the sexy, powerful alpha of the Tri-Cities pack, Adam, gets explosive.
I could see how it was hard to choose between Samuel and Adam, because they both have a lot to offer a girl, although my heart already made the choice for her, and I was glad that Mercy made the same choice.
I think that, if the choice is between Adam and Samuel, Mercy made the right choice; that doesn't mean I like Adam.
A sexual relationship with someone who, like her rapist, can potentially control her against her will (I don't care if he says he won't).
I like Warren and Ben, but I could do without all the rest of them and be very happy.I'll definitely get the next book in the series whenever it is published, but, yeah, I also definitely have a lot of issues with it.Still fun that it's set where I live though.
I have mixed feelings about Iron Kissed.
I love suspense/mystery side of this series much more than romance.
So yes, romance ruined Iron Kissed for me.
I was on my toes whole time and I really didn't guess who was the bad guy.
Speaking about how the story ended, I noticed one thing - it is so obvious that Iron Kissed is a little bit older book - it's quite tame (actually, term conservative would be better in this case) when it comes to explicit scenes.
Romance is 2 stars, mystery 4 stars, writing changed depending of subject, so it would be...
[5 Stars] What is it with third books in urban fantasy series?
Magic Strikes by Ilona Andrews was one of my favorites from the series, and it was the third book in the series.
She goes through so much in this book, so freaking much, and I admit it was a little hard to read at times, but I really love how Patricia Briggs handled everything in this book.
I also loved how we got more fae in this book.
Seriously if him and Aunt B from Kate Daniels series ever had a conversation, that would be one hell of a meeting!
(Hopefully we see some Stefan in the next book...
This was the best yet!
When I read the first book in this series my reaction was : meh- I can't remember what persuaded me to read the second one but it turned my opinion round.
She has backbone, she is completely loyal to those she loves, brave, curious and the cast around her are just as interesting .I read this in only 2 sittings and loved every minute.
Towards the end there is a traumatic event that happens and this and its aftermath are dealt with in the best of ways by Patricia Briggs.
( But read the series starting at the beginning!)
And it never feels like one of those things that happens just to make the heroine suffer (as I've read in so many books).
I also love that she's smart, and she knows how to work around the autocratic ways of the Pack.Another reason this is my favorite book (of the first three) is that it deals so much with the fae and their artifacts.
It was hell waiting for Bone Crossed to come out when I first read this.P.S. I loved Ben from, nearly, the first moment we met him, but I have to say my love and care for him solidified in this book.
I have so much love for this series having read all of the books set in the Mercy world and now working on re-reading them as time allows.
In the previous books in the series, Mercy has had both Adam and Sam showing interest in her.
Mercy does finally figure out where her heart is in this book and she does it in a way that reminds me why I love her character as much as I do.The final section of the book really got to me.
I can't wait to continue with my re-read of this fantastic series!Initial ThoughtsThe ending of this book was a lot more intense than I had remembered.
Third book in the series and I still haven't rated any book more than 3 stars.Mercy Thompson has done it all, Rescue the werewolves, vampires and now faes. Yes friends, there's nothing she isn't capable of.One of the issues I had with this book was the fact that she doesn't really shift into a Coyote often but she did frequently in this book and I found it so boring.I really enjoy this series but there's nothing special about it.
Also finished this while traveling in Australia. Yep, I'm on an urban fantasy kick and this series is meeting all my expectations for great UF.
The sudden, shocking explosion of paranormal romantical urban fantasy written in the first-person on a plucky, mouthy heroin?
We want books about plucky, smart-mouthed heroins who every man [vampire, werewolf, police officer [delete as applicable]] inexplicably falls in love with.
Which is why this whole paranormal romantical first-person fantasy thing is awesome – your [vampire, werewolf, alpha of the pack [[delete as applicable]] can be the overbearing, obnoxious, belittling asshole of yore, but it's all right, he can't help it, it's the nature of being a [vampire, werewolf, alpha of the pack [[delete as applicable]].
[4.5 Stars]
This same loyalty is what makes me fall more and more with this character - she is everything I think a good UF leading lady should be - emotionally strong, loyal, smart, but at the same time not invulnerable, quite disadvantaged when it comes to magic and physical strength when it comes to her very powerful enemies...
Well, with every book the stakes on her safety are raised and she takes more blows both physically and emotionally...
I do not want to give anything away - the fun of reading these books is the tension that comes with not knowing how things will progress..
Every book I read made me think:I hung garlic around my neck (Edward doesn’t get repulsed by that stuff, cauz he isn’t a VAMPIRE!) and went for a pilgrimage down the lane of other genres;thus leaving behind many series unread.
After reading this book though, I think the love triangle and the way it was resolved was one of the most satisfying aspects of this novel.Yes, there is a love triangle, but unlike other Mercy has a rock solid reason for being incapable to choose between the very hot alternatives.
By the end of this I just want to hug MERCY, Adam, Warren and BEN (even Samuel) and tell them it will be okay. *sniff*3/5/17 -The Buddy Read continues over @ BB&B minus a certain someone who shall not be named for her abandonment of us...
She’s got bills to pay and so on, but Briggs incorporates fantasy element flawlessly into her narrative and it just makes the Mercy Thompson world more appealing.
And if I didn’t love Mercy already, I think this book would have made me love her even more.
It showcased an inner strength of true love and will more so than any other book I’ve read in awhile.Briggs finally addressed the whole Adam/Sam debacle and she did it well.
She managed to write it so that Mercy finally chooses Adam, but still doesn’t disregard Samuel as a person she once loved in the past.
The biggest problem I have with it, other than the main character's whining about the decisions of her love life, is the author's inability to write.
Now, maybe Briggs did do research on the subject, and maybe she did speak to rape victims before writing the book.
The way the main character deals with her rape in this novel, you would think Briggs didn't do any of that.
The author's inability to realistically portray the seriousness of certain events (or explain them away, such as 'he was sexually abused as a child and that's why he's a real jerk now') totally killed it for me.
Buddy read at Buddies Books and BaublesThe world building in this one was pretty good. And finally there was someone with true alpha potential (view spoiler)[I am talking about the sea fae, obv ;) (hide spoiler)]. Now I do not care much about the abundant romance stuff here and about most of the side characters just yet. Getting there. 3.5 stars.
This one just blew my mind. I couldn't stop reading and what happened in the last 3 chapters?I have to have more...More!My mom keeps annoying me saying that even being addicted to books isn't good. But MOM...
Loved it. They keep getting better. Best one so far. I'm so excited I still have 6 more to go
I love Patricia Briggs’ fascinating world where werewolves and fae walk amongst us.
The characters are what make this series so special.
Ben, a character that I despised in the last book, redeemed himself with his revelations to Adam about Mercy.
It is in this book that Mercy’s special role in her world is fully realized.
Mercy is therefore under the protection of both the wolves and the fae.
The best part of the book was Mercy’s self realization of her choice of mate.
Mercy’s thought process behind her choice was truly insightful.I can’t wait to read the next book in the series.
He gets arrested for the murder and it's up to Mercy to figure out what's really going on.First I have to say I don't know how anyone thought this book was slow.
I was worried she'd just fade to black and I'm glad she didn't because I can't wait for the juicy details!I somehow got spoiled on part of this book and so I had it in the back of my mind the entire time I was reading, waiting for it to happen.
Even though I knew what was going to happen I still had trouble reading it.
So sad.Can't wait to read the next one and I'm glad we get to find out what's going to happen with Marsilia, the vampire queen.
I’ve been reading Mercy Thompson a few years back but never went further than book nr.
"Ménage-à-trois" or "Curtain up for alpha monstrosities":A love triangle is not per se something I dislike, but in this case both male characters and the execution of the romance were more than perplexing.
Mercy switches her "love/affection" between her childhood sweetheart Sam and her more recent attraction to Adam.
He coldly manipulated her into falling in love with him when she was just 14, he wanted to marry and mate with her when she was 16/17.
I often find with urban fantasy series that the love triangles continue for too long & start to bore me but I think Patricia Briggs timed things perfectly.
She may not be as strong physically as the wolves but she can sure hold her own mentally!This book broke my heart even more on the second read, knowing what was coming turned me into a ball of anxiety & I definitely shed a few tears along the way but the scene with Mercy, Adam and Ben towards the end of the book is beautiful.
I do love the way it's handled though and the scene at the end with Mercy, Adam and Ben is wonderful.
