https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32108.The_Talisman_Ring
Our main characters:• Ludovic Lavenham, the impetuous young heir to a baronetcy, accused of murder and on the run for the last couple of years, doing a little smuggling on the side, and whilst doing so bumping into ...• Eustacie, an equally impetuous young French girl with wildly romantic ideas, who is running away from an unwanted arranged marriage with ...• Sir Tristram Shield, the heir's cynical, exasperated older cousin, a gifted boxer and wrestler (so you know Georgette thinks he's actually a stand-up guy), who finally meets his match in ...• Sarah Thane, a clear-eyed lady in her late 20s, with a kind heart, a lively sense of humor, a sarcastic tongue and a thirst for adventure in her life, who decides to help Eustacie and Ludovic out of their respective fixes.This group decides to prove who the real murderer is so that Ludovic can take his rightful place again in society.
On the menu tonight:  THE TALISMAN RING Amuse BouchePour la table, we present a pair of charming Georgian romantics. They are très amusant! These light little treats will tantalize your taste buds and have two simple(-minded) components: a delightful if melodramatic young miss served "à la française" alongside a feckless and overwrought young heir. Other - lesser - restaurants have served such dishes as a main course - how droll! Here they find their proper place: as a lure to engage you in more
These light little treats will tantalize your taste buds and have two simple(-minded) components: a delightful if melodramatic young miss served "à la française" alongside a feckless and overwrought young heir.
Sir Tristram and Miss Thane are the genuine article and witnessing them come together on your plate should more than satisfy any appetite.
A glass of our Georgette Heyer is simultaneously bubbly and tart, sardonic and warm-hearted, with a range of exquisite notes to be savored: amusing dialogue, lovable characters, elegant prose, a brisk narrative, and an accomplished expertise at providing perfect historical detail without drowning her audience in, shall we say, "too much" history.
I found this vintage Georgette Heyer, The Talisman Ring, simply exquisite with its humor and wit, smooth and agile prose, with amusing and intelligent dialogues.
The mysterious plot is hilarious and full of wild adventures with smugglers, stupid Bow Street runners, an evil cousin and a malevolent valet.
Attempted murder, midnight house break-in, and mayhem make for a fast and pleasurable read.Lovable and piquant characters and romance gives The Talisman Ring a special flavor that doesn’t overshadow the overall plot.
The pair Sir Tristram Shields and Miss Sarah Thane despite their maturity, 31 and 29 years old, are still adventurous and simply delightful.
I found The Talisman Ring a great entertainment.
I'm challenging myself.But, to be honest and fair, this is really more of an offshoot of the old Regency Romances and full of the whole comedy of errors that we all know and love.
Rich grandfathers, viciously maligned cousins, onerous duties, mystery, theft, and yes, of course, Marriage.
she has adventure, all right, and in true heavy-handed domino fashion, the most outrageous of fortunes follow her around, and to today's sensibilities, I'm almost over-willing to say that she's TSTL, but no!
The 30's obviously needed a some humor, and this definitely fit the bill, never going over the top and always holding true to the sense of mystery, miscommunication, happy outcomes, and, of course, Romance.
I know they are a parody of young romantics and serve as a foil for the older and more sensible couple, but I really wanted Ludovic to get slapped at certain points where he insists on recklessly endangering everyone else for no better reason than his own boredom and fecklessness.Fortunately for me, Heyer, though more tolerant of young bucks than myself, couldn't take an entire novel of Ludovic and Eustacie, either.
You can almost see Sarah and Tristram blooming with happiness as they shed boredom and loneliness that they hardly even noticed themselves suffering.Come to think of it, it is probably that elevating happiness that allows them to be so tolerant of their annoying young foils for the length of the story...
I'm struggling ever so slightly with the review on this book as I read it at the start of my holiday. If I feel I have more to add I may edit this later.In spite of a slow start, the always inventive GH excelled herself with this one.Her variations this time were;I think this is her only book this late in the Georgian period.(view spoiler)[ two romances of nearly parallel importance (hide spoiler)]& just for once the villain actually (view spoiler)[ will face the British justice system! (hid
If I feel I have more to add I may edit this later.In spite of a slow start, the always inventive GH excelled herself with this one.Her variations this time were;I think this is her only book this late in the Georgian period.(view spoiler)[ two romances of nearly parallel importance  (hide spoiler)]& just for once the villain actually (view spoiler)[ will face the British justice system!
(hide spoiler)]Fast paced & funny, I'm not surprised this this title was successfully adapted as a play & would actually love to see it performed some time.I always wondered what a talisman ring would look like.If anyone else is curious...
Quite different to anything else I've read by Heyer. Fantastic rip roaring comedy- mystery- farce, with not one romance, it two!Recommended.
The ingénue, Eustacie, is lovely, smart, and a lot less annoying than many similar characters.
While their romance is sweet, the more interesting love story involves Sir Tristram Shield and Sarah Thane: both of them a little older, a lot more sensible and much less stereotypically romantic than their younger counterparts.
When I’m feeling a little down, reading one of Georgette Heyer’s novels will bring a smile to my face.
This is one to re-read when I need more than just a smile, as it has the power to make me laugh out loud.
This book manages to be both a Regency comedy of manners and a swashbuckling romance in the vein of Heyer's earlier set Georgian books. This is one of those books where the hero manages to be perfect but not irritate me, the dumb Beauty character inspires an affection in me, the lesser hero makes me smile, and I wish I could have a cup of tea and laugh over the world with the heroine. Very well drawn, very well remembered. (Also has one of my favorite proposal scenes!)
He comes to much the same conclusion, and both are in desperate need of rescue, which comes to them from two sources, a lawless smuggler and Miss Sarah Thane.Sarah is undoubtedly my favorite character on the whole book, she isn't nearly as silly as Eustacie, she doesn't fall in love with a school boy and she knows just when to banter and when it will most annoy Sir Tristram.
The Talisman Ring is a MUST READ for any Georgette Heyer fan.
You don't want to miss this wonderful romantic adventure!
This story is well crafted and has everything you could ever want in a Georgian Romance.
Go get this book and read it, right now!
The dialogue is brilliant and the story is well paced.
There is suspense, romance, humor, adventure, mystery, charm, and wit.
I read into the night because I could not put this book down.
And, now I'm a trifle done up by all this romance.
I can't believe I left this book on my shelf for months, sitting there, unread!!
There was a scene in the show 3rd Rock From the Sun, where the alien family moved into an HOA neighborhood and started wearing khakis, assembling particleboard entertainment center shelving, arguing with the board about a neighbor's wind chimes, becoming the most generic family possible; at one point, when they're all seated on the couch reading Grisham novels, they realize they could all switch books and still keep reading.* To my mind, Romances = Grishams.So despite this book having the appearance of respectability and the enthusiastic recommendation of a couple others with excellent reading taste and critical analyzing faculty, I was still all ready to giggle myself onto the floor, still having an expectation of a cloned Romance where the breeches would drop and petticoats would be raised at the first excuse.
There are plenty of 3rd Rock From the Sun clips floating around so it’s likely that the Grisham powerhouse had that particular one removed...he seems to have his brand name very tightly controlled.
I'm bumping this up to five stars on the most recent reread. The banter between Tristram and Sarah is just way, way too good and bonus points for the subtlety of the romance. And I admit that much of my attachment is to Sarah. I love how she throws in with Eustacie so eagerly and yet still develops an appreciation for the polar opposite in Tristram. And I particularly love that they complement each other so well with Sarah mitigating some of Tristram's reserve and him supporting her fully and eagerly at every turn and against expectations.
The kind of girl who almost regrets having been rescued from The Terror when she thinks of the tragic, pitiable figure she should have made when led to the guillotine, dressed in a white gown, of course.Sir Tristram is older, practical and sober, and Heyer spends a few pages making you think that the two of them are going to pair up, but if you're a Heyer fan you should know better.
Sarah is also a romantic, but she is old enough and wise enough to be amused by herself, and Eustacie ceases to be annoying when seen through her eyes.The dialog between Sir Tristram and Sarah is very funny and makes the book a good read despite a very silly plot.
Heyer’s books are the perfect light reading to my mind: relatable characters, witty dialogue, entertaining set-ups… In this one, two cousins are supposed to get married, despite being completely unsuited; hijinks (and a few more cousins joining in) ensue.The joy is really in the exuberance of the two ‘heroic’ characters, as I think of them, Eustacie and Ludovic, coming up against the two ‘sensible’ (ish) characters, Tristram and Sarah.
And in the background, unnoticed by Eustacie, Tristram and Sarah begin to have a greater regard for each other — while sniping at each other, of course.
I love this novel so much.
There is also a romance, of course, even two, but they are not the main focus.
All the characters are great, even the secondary ones (which is typical of this author).
This time around, I listened to the audiobook narrated by Phyllida Nash - definitely recommended.MTA: Still loving this book and Phyllida Nash's narration so very much.
This is probably my fifth or sixth read - but definitely not the last one.
This time around, in addition to all the adventure and romance, I enjoyed Sir Hugh's character very much.
We listened to this on a long road trip from the Oregon coast back to Utah and it was every bit as charming and humorous as I remembered. What I did not remember is that the romance between Sir Tristram and Sarah is practically nonexistent right up until the proposal at the end. This is more an adventure novel than a romance, which isn't a criticism, just a note of interest.I don't remember who the narrator was--Phyllida Nash, maybe?--but she did a great job with Eustacie's character. Really very enjoyable.
Eustacie and Ludovico weren't my interest at all: Miss Thane and Sir Tristram were much more my speed -- and I did enjoy background characters too, like Sylvester and Nye and Clem and Sir Hugo.I used to sneer at reading romances.
I'm honestly tempted to give it a five star rating, even though it doesn't hold up against other books I've rated five stars, because I smiled so much reading it, and giggled a fair amount too.Heyer's detective type novels are okay, but shockingly, I think I might find myself preferring her other work, if they're all like this.
Fluffy, Georgian romance which is totally charming and delightful. There are mysterious rings, murder, cousins in exile, dying uncles, arranged marriages, runaway heiresses, smugglers, excise men, someone getting shot, upper class prats, priest holes & secret passages, evil cousins, Bow Street Runners, a marriage proposal, breaking and entering, fist fights, attempted murder, quizzing glasses, bad guys getting caught, romance and much hilarity. What more could you possibly want?A wonderful and cheering way to spend time. I'll definitely be reading this again!Buddy read with Kim :-).

You dare.As previously and more delicately observed by Miriam: Eustacie and Ludovic were a pair of f
She would probably have been called a bluestocking in her day.I loved Sir Hugh.
'He had discarded his fur-lined cloak in the coffee room so that all the glory of his primrose pantaloons and lilac-stripped coat burst upon Miss Thane without warning'.I can see her now, sitting there with her mouth agape and astonishment in her eyes before trying to stiffle a laugh.When they were wondering if Sir Tristram would visit that day or would have to be sent for, Hugh in his dry wit observes, 'Send for him?
why he practically lives here' while probably pouring himself a brandy, which was much more important!I'm glad I got to read it again.
Rating Clarification: 3.5 StarsAnother delighful foray into Georgette Heyer's romantic imagination.
But the shining star of this Georgian romp was clearly the older, mature Sarah Thane.
Sarah is my favorite type of Heyer heroine: older, serene, yet not lacking in humor and self-deprecation.
She truely made the novel with her hysterical attempts to wring adventure out of every moment.Less successful (and hence the lack of a 4 or 5 star rating) was the hero in this story: Tristram Shield.
A total dullard of a Heyer hero, IMO.
Tristram was sober and lacking in charisma (aka B.O.R.I.N.G).
I am not a romance reader, but I stayed up all night reading this because I was having such a good time.
There are the usual stock figures, but she manages to imbibe them with breathe and scope so they leap off the page full of life.
It's usually the ingenue who manages to piss me off the most but, at least in this book, she's so full of life and cheer and not really stupid at all, that I forgive her and remember my own silly youthful romantic notions.
Smugglers, murders, Bow Street Runners, hidden cellars, priests holes, damsels fleeing home at night through snow, and a double romance. This is a highly amusing and entertaining entry, nicely balancing the adventure with the personal interaction, and a particular standout for Sarah, who is an awesome character, both eternally calm, and taking delight in tweaking at her over-serious match's staidness.
So much fun! Phyllida Nash did a good narration, especially for Eustacie & Beau Lavenham. I am glad that I broke down and bought this audio edition of one of my favorite Heyer novels (even though I already owned a paperback copy).
Read for the Bodice Rippers.When I was a girl we turned up our noses at romance novels.
I think I started with contemporary romance novels,and didn't even consider historical romance until someone mentioned Georgette Heyer in the same breath as Jane Austen.
I've read several Heyers since, but this one is new to me.There was a story that after Senator Obama met with Leader of the Opposition David Cameron, he summed him up thusly; 'What a lightweight!' (Of course any hack worth his salt can concoct six such quotes before breakfast, so I doubt it's true.) Cameron does seem light, but charming, like this pretty little piece.
I love this book.
I love the characters; I love the plot.
I love Sir Tristram, with his lack of sensibility and sweet heart.
I love Sarah Thane, with her wry sense of humor and blend of practicality and romanticism.
I want to be her.
I love Eustacie...and this third or fourth reading, I finally even loved Ludovic.But you know who the real unsung hero of this novel is?
Sir Hugh Thane.
I always viewed him as a clueless character but he really isn't.
He is just as subtle and brilliant as any of them!
I'd marry him.
Charming.
Delightful.
One of the Georgians, with a fine mix of adventure (smugglers and exiled heirs, oh no!) and mannerist comedy infusing the romances, which are lightly handled. Great side characters, and some of Heyer's funniest scenes as Our Heroes try to find the missing ring. This one is eminently cinematic.
This is an hilarious regency romance that will have anyone with a pulse chuckling if not laughing out loud. The dialog is superb. Reminds me of Gilmore Girls or the old black n white Thin Man movies. I wish someone would make movies of all these funny Heyer novels.
