https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/82192.The_Crystal_Cave
I remembered this book with a mystical fondness because I remember absolutely identifying with the character of Merlin and cast myself in the role of boy adventurer.Unfortunately, I have to now temper that literal reading with things I am aware of now-- that all the women in this book, with no exception-- fall into one of three roles: martyr, slut, or witch.
A terrible thing to admit is also something useful in looking at my adult reaction to this book.
Recounted through the voice of Merlin himself, this first book in Mary Stewart's Arthurian saga takes us through his young boyhood as a bastard child living under the roof of his grandfather, a crowned king of Wales, right into his adulthood and ending with the conception of King Arthur.
I told you that truth was the shadow of God. If I am to use it, I must know who He is."Eventually Merlin arrives on the shores of Less Britain and into the hands of the exiled king Ambrosius and his brother, Uther, both predecessors to the legendary King Arthur.
If you enjoy a great historical piece with well-developed characters, effortless pacing, and vivid descriptions then this book is for you.
It's well written and richly imagined but the pace is rather slow, or "deliberate" if I'm being nice.So I've been having some issues with this book (which is kind of embarrassing since I'm a moderator of the Mary Stewart GR group).
Mea culpa.November 2017 buddy read with the Mary Stewart group.Original post: I read this so long ago, and remember it so little, that I would feel really guilty about giving it a star rating.
But Mary Stewart was a very talented author and I like almost everything she wrote.
One of these days months years I'll try reading this one again.
Throw out your previous ideas of Merlin, Arthur, and Magic.
For those un-familiar with the time period, Arthurian legend is supposed to have taken place in the early dark ages- from the fall of the Roman Empire around 500 to almost 700 is an appropriate range.
You see, rather then the all mighty mystical Merlin from Sword in the Stone, We have a young Boy who learns Tricks and illusions from an aging teacher, with a little bit of pagan magical practice as well.
The first book (this one) follows him from a young boy through his coming of age- Identity issues and all.
One of the best Authurian saga I've ever read.It felt as if I were there watching the events unfold before my eyes.
There is not one character, no matter how minor his role, that does not serve his function and move the story forward to its pre-ordained end.Stewart has a sweeping command of the history she presents and an undeniably smooth and fresh writing style that puts you right there in the history, sharing the moment.
I only know that God is the source of all the light which has lit the world, and that his purpose runs through the world and past each one of us like a great river, and we cannot check or turn it, but can only drink from it while living, and commit our bodies to it when we die.” I first read this book in 1970, at its initial publication.
This is the first in the Arthurian Saga series, told from the perspective of Merlin from the age of a young boy into early adulthood.
After I read “The Legend” and Author’s Note in the back of the book I thought how nice it would have been if those were in the beginning!
I’m not accustomed to reading this time period but will say it was a nice change of pace.
Overall I enjoyed it and am intrigued enough to try the next book in the series since I'm a fan of Mary Stewart's and love her writing style.
As there was quite a measure of chaos after the withdrawal of the Romans from Britain, many place names suffered for it, since Celt, Saxon, Roman and Gaul shuttled to and fro across the turbulent and divided Britain.The novel relates the events prior to the birth of King Arthur, estimated around A.D. 470.
The historical events was taken from Geoffrey Monmouth's History of the Kings of Britain, which was semi-fictitious as well.It was a good read.
It ends with a prediction of the coming birth of King Arthur and in the end felt like reading history in novel form.
But somehow, it just took me far too long to get through it, and I happily abandoned it for whatever else looked interesting, given half a chance.Merlin's voice never quite felt real to me, for a start.
Mary Stewart's Ambrosius was quite similar to Rosemary Sutcliff's Ambrosius, though, which didn't do this book any favours, since I got to the part with Ambrosius after having read Sutcliff's Sword at Sunset.The whole thing about Merlin needing to remain a virgin bothered me a little.
This was a reread for me. It didn't quite thrill me as much as it did the first time I read it but I still think it rates a 5.I love Mary Stewarts take on the Arthurian tale in this series, especially this opening book where she she begins with Merlin as a child and draws out the history through him. Stewart has taken some liberties and added her own special twist to the story which, to me, brings a unique viewpoint to the legend. Enter the pages of this series and discover the true creator of Stonehenge. ;)
The Crystal Cave is the first of Mary Stewart's excellent Arthurian books, telling the story of King Arthur this time from the exciting perspective of the great wizard Merlin.
We are so used to reading books about Arthur and Merlin where Arthur is the key figure but this book is definitely Merlin’s story and I loved reading it.The legend of Merlin begins when he is a young boy born illegitimately to a Welsh Princess and despised by the King.
There are lots of books written about the life and times of King Arthur and of course the mysterious wizard Merlin.
Mary Stewart writes beautifully with a fantastic imagination and a real way with words.
This was done so beautifully yet holding such immense intelligence cognition/ definition that I will think about this for some long hours as I write this.
What I learned from the read was that the mixture of the eventual man, Merlin- it's functionally cored on separateness and also a wholly formed self-identity BY the self alone.
His personality also and always stays clasped to the internal spirit "sight"embedded in his physical reactions.
But always with Merlin himself on the "outside" looking in.
Mary Stewart hit the power embedded in his wizardry in this book from his earliest days and within a type of thought pattern practiced and practiced.
I know read this but years ago & the author died in 1983 so this new edition it in style of T H White not brilliant it's no Karelian Maitland more Pear S Buck romantic than true lot of Barbra Cartland than 'real' villant knights what some people claim 'a woman's book'
Merlin tells his story from his boyhood.
Read by Stephen Thorne, it's even better.
Merlin tells this tale in his old age, but usually the story moves along as if it were in the present.
He glosses over much of his 'magic' at times, explains it at others, & that generally makes for a sense of mystery that would have otherwise have been lacking in a more straight forward account.
Much of his 'magic' is just due to his keen mind & excellent education, not to mention good math & hard work.
An excellent book.
The first, and one of the very few, books that has ever reconciled me to Arthurian myth. After slogging through hideous Victorian sentimental priggishness everywhere else, this is a breath of fresh and magical air into a tired story.
As I've said, it's Misogynistic Merlin, which is my least favourite flavour -- you have some clear-headed, quick-thinking, powerful women, but then you have lines like this: "Duchess and slut alike, they need not even study to deceive." And the whole bit about weak female magic and Merlin needing to be a virgin and blahblahblah.
I know for sure which one is the better book, and which one I enjoy more, but this doesn't stand up so badly when it's not right up against something by a master like Sutcliff.
4.5*How does Mary Stewart do what she does?With the best of her books she takes me into another world so completely that I am snarling "What???" at anyone foolhardy enough to try to make me look up from the pages of her book.The descriptions are beautiful & often poetic.Consider this;Then she saw me watching her.
I knew then why the ancients armed the cruellest god with arrows; I felt the shock of it right through my body.I wasn't familiar with the early story of Arthurian legend and found Stewart's telling of it compelling other than part of Book 2.
Told from the perspective of Merlin, it follows him from a young boy to a young man in his late teens/early twenties.Overall, I really enjoyed it!
I think my biggest complaint was lack of character development.
Even Merlin didn't feel very developed and he was the one telling the story!
It also all felt a bit anti-climatic....not a whole lot went on and big events where skipped over with simple summary lines like, well this happened, and now everything changed in this way.I really did enjoy the story however, Stewart's writing was excellent and I'm intrigued enough to continue on!
I really loved this one. It kept my attention throughout, and I'm excited to read the rest of the series. King Arthur legends are always exciting and fun to read!
On re-reading, Stewart's prose is as lyrical and as lush as ever, with her love for Welsh place especially shining through.
To some extent these are the problems any author who tackles Arthurian legend must face as the stories place women in these roles but of course, in recent times, people have challenged such premises.
Besides, I think that Stewart does challenge female roles but in a more subtle way than authors like Zimmer Bradley.
I found the scene between Ygraine and Merlin towards the end of the novel to be especially illuminating.
Alas, King Arthur bombed so hard that Guy Ritchie will not get to make his Merlin movie, which is too bad because (a) it would have been LIT and (b) it could have followed the plot of this book without straying too far out of Ritchie's universe.
There are several plot elements in this book that make little to no sense (view spoiler)[(the crystal cave, Merlin getting dragged over to Vortigern to give a prophecy on the falling wall) (hide spoiler)], would still have made little to no sense in a movie, but would have been super cool once Guy Ritchie spent $200 million on CGI to make them pop.
Mary Stewart obviously took the time to go through with a lot of researching of legends and so forth to form this saga.
I never imagined there would be a book about King Arthur where I could be dying to know more.
At the same time there are other characters we can fall in love with, such as Arthur, Guinevere, Lancelot, and Galahad.
This saga is different from other Arthurian stories because Mary Stewart purposely worked to make this as close to the original legends as possible.
Of course, because it is a more realistic rendition, magic has a more limited role, but it has and is at the discretion of every reader to understand if he reads about supernaturally things or a series of coincidences.All well until this point but this long introduction maybe is too long and maybe at the end it becomes somewhat tiring.
I can not say, it is quite moving to learn the story of a young child who knows rejection and suspicion in a particularly wild age, is definitely written with art and sensitivity but this book I started to read as a fictional illustration of the known events and we actually only get to them close enough to the end.
There were a lot of neat ideas but, like every character in this novel, they were never developed.It’s told, first-person, from Merlin’s perspective as an old man looking back on his life.
When describing his childhood, he sounds like neither a child or an old man looking back on events – his voice simply narrates things, as they happened, with very little passion or personality, even when describing his strongest feelings.
If his personality had been more complex, this wouldn’t be a problem, but his personality was simply ‘I am the breath of god’ and never got any further than that.And if you don’t like Merlin there’s really no one to relate to or care about in this book.
When I learn this book and it was about Merlin (a magician who help Arthur to be king as much as I knew) I couldn't wait to begin it.
Well, I was waiting for magic in action (such as like in the Magicians series or Merlin series I didn't think It would be same).
This book wasn't anything I expected.
The story began as old Merlin everyone knew (I guess :)) began to tell his story when he was 12 years old.
Even though this book wasn't what I expected, I felt I was in a magical world on every page in it.

Read this in high school.
I loved it then, but now it feels a bit less engrossing.
At times, it reads like a listing of events.
But excellent new audiobook read by Derek Perkins — superb narration!
Stewart’s sensory descriptions can bring a simple scene to life: “To begin with, most of the men were surly and half asleep, and we rode pretty well in silence, breath smoking in the icy air, and the horses' hoofs striking sparks from the slaty road.
Even the jingle of harness sounded cold...”A good deal.
I bought the e-book complete series in this collection: Legacy: Arthurian Saga.
I read this for an 8th grade English oral book report. It was a great story, and the teacher was amazed that I was able to explain the complicated plot to everyone so that they could understand it. I never went on to read the other 2 books in the series. I should reread this and then dig out the other two...
By far my favorite Arthurian era novel. Multiple reread.
She saw and had to know what was being done to him, and she just wanted to be off to a convent and didn't seem to really care about what would happen to her son until way later in the story.When Merlin finally manages to escape from his uncle's clutches, he finds himself off and figuring out who his real father is.
The ending set things up for book #2 with Merlin knowing that he is going to be given Arthur and mold him to be king one day.
