https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11013513-the-italian-cook-book
The free e-book cookbook is a back-to-basics, farmhouse-style recipe book that features all the classic recipes of the Italian cucina casalinga, Italian housewife cookery.The Preface stresses that the Italian cuisine is "palatable, nourishing and economical".
Without a Table of Contents, it is the hyper-linked Index at the back of the book that offers the best oversight of the simply-explained 221 recipes.The organization of the recipes is at times haphazard.
All the basics of Italian cooking are here, for free!Here is an unofficial Table of Contents to give you an idea of the every-day Italian recipes in this book: 1.
Pasta and Sauces3.
Rice Dishes4.
Egg and Chicken Dishes6.
Sauces9.
Meat10.
Zucchini and other Vegetable Dishes11.
Roast Meats13.
I am not a fan of the organization/layout. The food is also not too healthy
Many of the ingredients are given differently than they would be in a modern bookstore (e.g., 7 ounces of flour rather than giving the measurement by cups or "add a piece of butter"), but a seasoned cook will be able to adapt the recipe.As has been pointed out, The Italian Cook Book: The Art of Eating Well is pretty much plagiarized from legendary cookbook author Pellegrino Artusi's The Art of Eating Well: An Italian Cookbook -- right down to the title!
For most Americans, their sole access to Artusi's genius will be through Gentile's cookbook.
Interesting. Since there wasn't a chapter/recipe listing in the front, I don't think I could actually use this like a traditional cookbook since I couldn't "search" recipes. Shame. Some of the recipes were interesting enough that I'd like to make them, but since I don't have an idetic memory I'd probably get fed up or distrated before I found the one I wanted.
Food economy and creativityAfter reading I am more aware of my own food waste which could be turned into a unique meal with the ingenuity of cooks who had less culinary advantages but more "culinary acumen"!
FALSE
