https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59922.Changes
I spent the better part of High School buried in a Danielle Steele novel. They are all about gorgeous women and handsome men with loads of money. All the women have beautiful hair and legs for miles. They all blow the men away by wearing summer dresses with espadrilles. They all have happy endings. For a High School girl they are a grown way to continue to play with Barbies. For a grown woman with kids and a mortgage they're fluff I simply don't have time for anymore.
Even though the end is predictable, in order to enjoy this one you need to read in b/w the lines.Changes: As the Title of the book suggests this novel is all about “THE MOMENTS OF IMPACT” which can change our lives forever:)There are two center characters in this novel: MELANIE ADAMS , a HOTSHOT TV ANCHOR in NEW YORK and PETER HALLAM, a RENOWNED HEART SURGEON in Los Angeles.1) MELANIE ADAMS : She is a famous TV ANCHOR.
Upon that Peter’s kids don’t adjust to her ways and her own daughters refuse to understand her decisions to marry Peter.Melanie is trying to juggle her house along with a career at a new place.
I've read this many times in Portuguese. Of all the four of five books by her I've read, this is my favorite and still has a special place in my heart.
I loved the way Mel has two girls and she thinks both of them are wonderful, even though one is a straight A student and the other is sort of a clueless babe.
And I liked the way Dr. Peter Hallam was so straight ahead about how his first wife was cold and perfect and how he's almost afraid to love anyone as warm and spontaneous as Mel. The thing about Danielle Steel is that her writing has an innocent quality, almost like a little girl wrote it.
Like on the first page when the doctor is introduced and the narrator keeps gushing about "there was something unbelievably decent about him .
Once again, it seems like Danielle Steel wasn't sure she knew what she wanted her characters to think or feel.
The characters would go from being happy about a situation to being depressed and unsure within a one page span.
And Steel's "foreshadowing" was so predictible she might as well have just said right out what was going to happen four pages later.
I'm finding that Danielle Steel's books are either or hit or miss, and this one, like the majority of the rest, was a miss for me.
I almost forgot how much I love a good Danielle Steel novel.
I haven't read anything of hers in a year or two- so I decided to come back and read another one of hers.
I wasn't disappointed.
I love the characters Steel creates- independent Mel and her beautiful twin daughters, intelligent and heartfelt Peter the heart surgeon, and his headstrong daughter and loving sons.
Between the locations the characters kept jet-setting to, and the heavy descriptions of both Mel and Peter's jobs, the story flew by along with the pages.
Looks like I'll be reading another Steel very soon!

what can i say i couldnt finish it . the story line /Characters keep repeating things through out the percent i did read. So i just DNF the Book. Maybe i try and read it again later. just not feeling it. Life to read a book just to finish it if you are not enjoying reading it.
I’m guessing this is one of Danielle Steel’s early novels. The storyline is entertaining enough but the style of writing is annoyingly repetitive. Her constant use of run-on sentences makes the novel read like a children’s book. Scenes have very little detail and there is a lot of “telling” as opposed to “showing”, which puts the reader in a very passive position. Read this if you are looking for a super-simple read with a happy ending.
I recently had the love to old novels and though this book was in 1983, I had the feeling that it gonna be awesome just as Steel's modern books!
And I was not actually mistaken; Steel always attracts my full attention while reading her novels, she never fails to give us a detailed description of every character from all aspects and mainly psychological.
I like how she properly interprets the feelings of her characters.
peter hallam is a very skilled heart surgeon who has saved countless lives but also lost them he is now a widower as his wife did not agree to a transplant which he takes hard as he believes that she did not trust him or like his work.
she herself is a single mom with 2 teenage twin girls mel and peter's relationship starts getting much deeper but is difficult with 3000 miles between them and children who do not want anyone else in their lives many things evolve between the families and this tells the story of loss, love and new beginnigs good characterisation so u fell u know them personally but i found it too drawn out bev
This is one of them cozy romances you snuggle up with.
She flies out to California to do a story on a doctor who is a heart transplant surgeon.he has 3 children and is newly widowed.
During their time together doing the interview for a story they grow close and fall in love.
They run into many obsticals trying to mix both families together.
Each family has their own way of doing things and neither side wants to do much give and take.
It was a sweet romance that has some intrigue but for the most part it was just mellow and predictable.

Read this book back in the 90s, liked it then.Got the Cheryl Ladd/Michael Nouri DVD, loving that even more.
Good depiction of long-distance romance, step-family formation, the struggles of blending two sets of children, grieving unresolved loss, and moving forward in a modern marriage with two high-powered careers -- her a TV news anchor and him a famous heart surgeon.Some will call it cheesy.
Just a feel good movie for sure, and certainly having read the original book a second time in last few years...I'd go for the movie over the book.
It's just that back in those days, pay phones and other aspects make the book seem dated.
Still a great love story...and who doesn't like that!

Danielle Steele's Changes is a book that shares hope,joy,sorrow,love and friendship in abundance.The coming together of two people sharing entirely different lives and their struggle with realities is beautifully portrayed.
It is not just a love story;it is about the sacrifices and 'Changes' that touches the lives of the people when two families come together to form new bonds.Okay, I agree its predictable in many ways but you cannot help but despair and rejoice with the characters.
If you are a person who believes in hope,love and miracles then you should go grab a copy now.
I saw the movie starring Cheryl Ladd before reading the book and there are some differences between the two versions. However, I still found this book to be a great read. The drama, the passion, the romance is all there, however, I could not stand the selfishness of Melanie. She needs to understand that life is not all about your needs, especially when you move into another man's house with his three children who lost their mother. Overall, great read and one of the good Danielle Steel books that I have read thus far.
PB-B @ 1984, 3/85. Changes are what happens when a couple, each living on opposite coasts, raising children on their own, having successful businesses, fall in love and try to blend their lives together. Okay.
Danielle Steel is my go-to when simply reading for pleasure. I prefer her older books with wonderfully complex characters woven into historical times in our history.
Great bookWonderful story of blended family and Love .All the characters come to life in this book. I would read this book again
باهية قنينة لكن يبدو انني معاش حنقرا روايات عاطفيات ... تشعر بالملل الشديد المبالغ فيه
I grew up stealing Danielle Steel books from my mother's shelves, reading them at night while everyone else was asleep.
Maybe it's just the way romance has evolved, but I'm accustomed to realllyyy explicit love scenes, and though Ms. Steel's don't get that detailed, they were still hot!
The connection between Melanie and Peter was everything, and the realistic way their families struggled with blending after they got married was refreshing to read.
I've read a few of her other books, but none resonated the way this one has.
It will survive many a spring cleaning if I have any say, and hopefully my daughter will steal it from me someday.
(c)1983 Picture a doctor and anchorwoman meeting during an interview and falling in love. Problems develop from everything to their children, their schedules, distance, patients, etc... If that's not bad enough they move in together and personal space creates havoc not to mention other problems. Only problem I had was moments where parts of the conversation was mundane. Loved the ending. Disappointed as Steel didn't go into who the lunatic was and why he/she went after Mel. Other than that it was for pleasant reading. Impressed with all the medical and journalistic facts.
Encuentro decisivoMuy buena trata sobre los cambios tanto en la pareja como en los hijos de estos cuando los padres deciden volver a casarse.muy linda este drama familiar que trata sobre temas muy frecuentes estos días .
Another great read by Danielle Steel
I really liked this story, and the whole story of the children was warped but engaging. One of her better books.
I like it!!
Not my cup of tea. Super fluff romantic book. I am not the type to read such books but did so for a challenge.
Changes by Danielle Steel. Very good love story. Easy to read.
Hey TV journalist interviews a cardiac surgeon. The cardiac surgeon steals her heart, and new love and opportunities abound. Terrific lifetime movie based on this novel.
