https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14185.The_Three_Stigmata_of_Palmer_Eldritch

The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch was the kind of book that Kilgore Trout, the fictional recurring character in Kurt Vonnegut's novels (based on science fiction writer Theodore Sturgeon) would have been proud of – deftly original, scathingly satirical, wildly entertaining – and funny in the kind of subtle way that would have pleased Vonnegut.
It is good in many different ways, and works well on different levels.
(the parts left out of Bladerunner) this novel brings out some of PKD’s unique abilities to combine science fiction with theological explorations.
Best line in the book: "Palmer Eldritch had gone to Prox a man and returned a god".
Dick, The Three Stigmata of Palmer EldritchEnter into PKD's drug-infused, gnostic future.
PKD is at his high point when he infuses his dark futurism with his gnostic explorations and his drug-fueled moral investigations.
Hell, some people in Appalachia even get close to God with a little sip of strychnine and few rattlesnakes.
PKD explores the use of two different drugs: Can-D and Chew-Z to explore two dimensions of the God-inducing euphoria.
Anyway, I'm still trying to work out exactly how I feel about it all.
He drops me off the last page feeling trapped, trying to figure out where I am and who to exactly to believe.
Without going into the synopsis in any detail, this novel features a drug induced virtual reality, initially with the aid of Ken and Barbie-like dolls in their nicely furnished dollhouse.
Brilliant digital art by SharksDen The first 50 or so pages are straight forward enough but soon things take a sharp left turn somewhere and the reader goes careening off reality and become more "Lost in Translation" than Bill Murray floundering around Tokyo.
If that makes no sense to you then I urge you to read the book and take the trip for yourself.
(Someone somewhere must have given this thing a proper name.) It's when a groundbreaking original work of art gets ripped off so many times by lesser mortals (not necessarily out of malignant plagiarism, mostly because the original art introduces various techniques which become part of the lexicon) that when you actually get round to seeing/reading/hearing the original thing, your reaction is "okay, is that it?".
Philip Dick is a great sufferer from Citizen Kane syndrome.
PKD does in retrospect seem kind of - sorry to say this - like a one trick pony, the trick being his Total Paranoia about what actually is Reality.
Takers of Chew-Z (and Dick's readers, once the substance has been taken by two main characters, Leo Bulero and Barney Mayerson) cannot separate the drug experience from reality.
Leo's and Barney's Chew-Z experiences are hellish, and other users describe their experiences the same way because in each case, for each person, Palmer Eldritch seems to be in control of their hallucination, in control of the world in which they find themselves.
This is also the reason Eldritch and the Chew-Z "translations" come across as hellish - they are simply so alien from humanity as to feel palpably "other", positively ahuman - and part of their alien-ness is a kind of amorality, which is not to be confused with immorality.
This one is a real mind-bending experience, deliciously strange and tantalizing with its ideas.The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch (1965) is one of the earliest PKD novels that deals overtly with drug use, hallucinations, and his thoughts on religion and the divine in our mundane lives.
Both Barney and Leo start to travel in time and space and it’s not clear what is real and what is induced by Chew-Z.In the middle of it all, the mysterious figure of Palmer Eldritch continues to manifest himself in the characters lives, seemingly all-powerful and yet trapped within the confines of his fate.
Searching for meaning in drugs, god, corporate culture, human evolution.
And then searching for meaning directly from and of a god -- of sorts.
Completely berserk in terms of pacing and plotting, and borders on incoherency in the second half, but totally worth it anyway.
Dick's conceptual reach exceeds his grasp by a decent margin but the reach is broad and esoteric and stimulating nonetheless.Incidentally, the covers for the old editions of his are so much better than the one I've got:I mean, it's practically enough to make me want to start collecting old PKD editions.
He learns that the woman is named Roni Fugate, another precog, his new assistant at the firm he works for in New York, P.P. Layouts, Inc. Mayerson is consulting Dr. Smile in an attempt to beat his appointment with the United Nations, which has instituted a planetary draft exiling unlucky citizens to any of two planets or six moons that have been colonized throughout the solar system.Life on Earth is no picnic anymore--with high temperatures in the 180s and cooling units mandated for anyone venturing out in daylight--while life on the colonies is so despairing that the only means of survival is an illegal hallucinogen called CAN-D, which in concert with set decor known as "layouts" briefly whisk the colonist to virtual reality Earth.
And that however they come, they can be meaningful and they can also be dangerous.As someone reading a load of Dick for the first time, this book also has the rare advantage of never having been filmed, so I came to it with zero prior understanding.
Dick, the simulated reality magnate Leo Bulero, kidnapped on Luna and forced into a Chew-Z hallucination meets a young girl, not unlike Alice, who declares: “My accidents are those of this child, but my substance, as with the wine and the wafer in transubstantiation—" (LoA omnibus edition, p.
Just as the church cracker is none other than Jesus Christ Himself, the young girl is none other than Palmer Eldritch himself, shortly after he met with God (or is he none other than God himself?), off Proxima Centauri.You’ve guessed it: this is one of the earlier novels by PKD and one of the nuttiest pieces of storytelling of the 1960s.
Dik je pisac koji uvek i bez izuzetka nudi brzu i ludu vožnju kroz različite nivoe realnosti.
Sa logikom se generalno možemo pozdraviti negde oko prve trećine date knjige (a nekad i ranije, jeste, "Tecite suze moje, reče policajac", u vas gledam) ali uvek je istovremeno zabavno i izazovno i nadahnjuje na razmišljanje o ljudskoj prirodi, prirodi vere i prirodi stvarnosti.
I to sve važi i za Tri stigmate (koje su inače sasvim u duhu onog nabrajanja iz Crvenkape i verovatno njime inspirisane: ruka, oči i zubi).*Kod nas je Dik obično dodatno zamućen prevodima, npr.
Είναι το τρίτο βιβλίο του Ντικ που διαβάζω και νομίζω οτι θα γίνω φαν.Ψάχνοντας πληροφορίες στο διαδ
An incredibly prescient satire on multimedia* addiction - losing oneself in artificial environments to escape (or at least muffle) an undesirable reality.
Though, sure...there were pirate radio broadcasts and TV broadcasts, and the telephone lines were open to hackers seeking free long distance calls - no doubt PKD's milieu incorporated a phreaker or two among the freaks - but, still, credit where credit is due.
And credit is due.
Uneori, cărțile lui Philip K. Dick îmi par a fi scoase dintr-un vis: întreaga lume își pierde substanța, trecutul, prezentul și zeci de variante ale viitorului se contopesc, cauzalitatea este doar o amintire, iar mintea nu poate să distingă adevărul de halucinație...
The kind of stuff I love, mind stuff, like The Matrix movie (which I can't watch anymore because I novelized it scene by scene and don't enjoy it anymore).
[...the book made me wonder at an alternate ending for the Matrix trilogy.
He sits in that chair where Morpheus gave him the red pill.
Morpheus says, "What did you think?
The Matrix is actually a hallucinogenic drug that gives you another chance at life, to be who you really want to be, down in your unconscious mind.
Neo, you wanted to be a hero, because you wrap your true identity in your hacker world"]Maybe cheesy, but ideas come in various ways.Loved it.
Maybe I merely disagree, maybe my affection for PKD has waned, maybe I need more now than he can give.Dick is famous for his drug use and for taking speed before cranking out an entire novel in fifteen hours flat.
This book, to me, feels like his most drug-influenced book.
It's because you get the feeling that he throws things into the story as they occur to him and made no effort to smooth things over in a subsequent draft.
He switches gears on a whim and those whims come at the rate of about fifteen to twenty per scene.If you're a big fan of PKD, go ahead and check this out.
Οι περισσότεροι πλανήτες είναι άγονοι και η μόνη διασκέδαση των αποίκων είναι το παράνομο ναρκωτικό Καν-ντι το οποίο τους προμηθεύει η εταιρεία Μελέτες Κατασκευών Πεταχτούλα Πατ.
Η εταιρεία αυτή εξειδικεύεται στο να φτιάχνει μινιατούρες για τα σκηνικά τα οποία πρωταγωνιστούν στις φαντασιώσεις των αποίκων κατά τη χρήση του Καν-ντι.
Ο Μπάρνι Μάγερσον είναι πρόγνωσης προμόδας σε αυτή την εταιρεία και δουλειά του είναι να προβλέπει ποιες απ' τις μινιατούρες θα γίνουν περιζήτητες από τους αποίκους.
Τότε η πραγματικότητα αρχίζει να μπλέκεται με τις παραισθήσεις μέχρι που είναι αδύνατο να ξεχωρίσει κανείς ποια είναι ποια.Ξέρω τι σκέφτεστε.
Her tone was casual, but Tom immediately caught the edge in her voice."Who do you mean?" he said, pretending not to understand.
Then the change operated, and they were inside the layout.Tom looked at Hunca; even in her rodent body, she was still very attractive.
"It looks good, doesn't it?" Tom had to agree.
The sight of the glazed ham made his mouth water, and the lobsters were if anything even more appetizing.
Tom tried the lobsters, but he already knew what he would find.
Evidently, Palmer Eldritch's power now extended even into the layouts."Oh no!" sobbed Hunca as mouse-tears trickled down her cheeks, moving with exaggerated slowness in the Martian gravity.

Sitting around a PP min layout while taking the drug with other colonists in an aptly named hovel results in a gestalt experience where the men inhabit Walt's character and the women Perky Pat's, and they live out a virtual reality experience (years before the term was coined) in which they can vicariously enjoy the life of PP etc - set in a past prior to the high temperatures - using the trappings provided in the min layout.
Review of 'Saint Maybe' and 'Stigmata'There were clues in the titles, I realise retrospectively, that these were both books about God: ‘Saint’ in one, ‘Stigmata’ in the other…a complete coincidence that I read them back to back.But what different takes – well, they would be different, wouldn’t they?
In a complete turnabout of how we usually see the Human-God relationship, typified by Tyler, Dick considers the notion that God’s been on his own since the beginning of – well, you know, the beginning of whatever he created – and he’s sick of being a lonely fucker.
"Three's my lucky number And fortune comes in threes But I wish I knew that number That even little children seem to see Oh, I'm missing everything I knew It's just so hard to be a child Oh, i'm missing all the things i knew Yet whinge i knew nothing at all I whinge i knew nothing at all"
Please note: Originally read and reviewed in 2007, just copying my review over from Amazon.My synopsis: Working through the nature of reality and illusion, this story is set in a future that is anything but Utopian.
They use miniature items to create these worlds; these "mins" are provided by the same company that supplies the illegal Can-D, which is run by Leo Bulero.However when the famous explorer Palmer Eldritch returns from his trip to Proxa, he brings with him some lichen, with which he creates a product called Chew-Z - a legal alternative to Can-D.
I tell myself lies everyday.
Because when things aren't the way you want them, it's nice to have a little white lie to live within.
Makes things, tolerable.
Palmer Eldritch is the lie I tell myself.
The giver of the lie.
Who says that living within the lie will help.
Who provides the materials to build the lie to great proportions.
To the point you come to believe the lie.
And you see the lie for what it is.
You tell yourself, this is not the lie, the lie is reality itself.
And you see Palmer Eldrtich in everyone you meet.
A klutzy, embarrassingly spiritual book—but enjoyable in a pulpy kind of way, nevertheless.
Not annoyingly zany but still … uh, you know what I mean.It is quite difficult to summarize the story told in this novel but the main conflict is between the big businessman Leo Bulero, who illegally sells a drug called Can-D with the help of which settlers on Mars and other planets – in the future described in the book people can be drafted as compulsory space settlers by the UN, and they have hardly any chance avoiding the call to the plough – beguile their hapless lot, and (let’s hereby get back to the main clause) the mysterious Palmer Eldritch, who has developed another drug called Chew-Z and who is about to establish it on the market.
Το μόνο που σώζει τους αποίκους είναι το Καν-ντι, ένα ναρκωτικό που δουλεύει μαζί με μια μακέτα και μια κούκλα, την Πέρκι Πατ, δίνοντάς τους την ψευδαίσθηση για λίγες ώρες, πως ζουν ακόμα στη γη και πάνε για shopping.
Ο απόλυτος κυριάρχος της αγοράς Καν-ντι είναι ο κατασκευαστής της μακέτας της Πέρκι Πατ, ο Λιο Μπουλέρο, και κοντά του μεσουρανεί το δεξί του χέρι, ο Μπάρνι Μάγιερσον, που έχει την ικανότητα της πρόγνωσης, μπορεί να δει δηλαδή τα γεγονότα πριν συμβούν.
Όλα πάνε καλά, ως να εμφανιστεί ξανά στο ηλιακό σύστημα ο Πάλμερ Έλντριτς, ανταγωνιστής του Λίο, που φέρνει ένα νέο, διαφορετικό ναρκωτικό, το Τσου-Ζέντ.
This is a terrible novel.Dick's prose is the worst prose I have ever read in a professionally published work.
Dick literally brings in a deus ex machina at the end, apparently because he can't think what else to do.
Dick, so I read this novel, to find out what all the shouting was about.
I've read another Dick novel, The Man in the High Castle, long ago, when I was in my 20s, and I remember little of it, except that it wasn't very interesting.
No, my tastes have evolved so that I hate Dick even worse.I cannot understand what readers find in the writing of Philip K.
This book left me cold. The plot was all over the place and the characters unformed. Yet there were passages which promised better. Overall a chore to read rather than a delight.I am still trying to work out if Dick is a genius or the Barbara Cartland of sci fi. Perhaps its me. Hey ho.
