https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/97553.Crow
He's done with that.Crow’s Account of the BattleThe cartridges were banging off, as planned,The fingers were keeping things goingAccording to excitement and orders.The unhurt eyes were full of deadliness.The bullets pursued their coursesThrough clods of stone, earth, and skin,Through intestines pocket-books, brains, hair, teethAccording to Universal lawsAnd mouths cried "Mamma"From sudden traps of calculus,Theorems wrenched men in two,Shock-severed eyes watched blood Squandering as from a drain-pipeInto the blanks between the stars.Faces slammed down into clayAs for the making of a life-maskKnew that even on the sun's surface They could not be learning more or more to the pointReality was giving it's lesson,Its mishmash of scripture and physics, With here, brains in hands, for example,And there, legs in a treetop.There was no escape except into death.And still it went on--it outlastedMany prayers, many a proved watchMany bodies in excellent trim,Till the explosives ran outAnd sheer weariness supervenedAnd what was left looked round at what was left.Crow cannot die, his suffering which is only briefly drowned out by his laughter can’t die and it seems has no purpose.

There was a lot of very dark humour in this collection which I really loved, and a lot of surprisingly sexually explicit moments (although it was published in 1970, later than I thought so I guess it's maybe not so surprising).I will definitely be checking out more Ted Hughes, and I would recommend this Faber edition specifically as it has some poems that were not included in the original publication, some of which were fantastic editions.
A beautiful collection that has got me excited about poetry all over again.
Publisher's Note--Two Legends--Lineage--Examination at the Womb-door--A Kill--Crow and Mama--The Doo
In all honesty, this was just okay for me. I'm sure it's worthy of a 5 star rating, as it feels like a masterpiece of poetry. Unfortunately most of it went over my head.
One of those "classics" I'd not yet gotten around to reading, this is an amazingly dark and intense book, full of surreal and haunting imagery, but not without wry humor. It contains real horror and real emotion, and is mostly spoken in the voice of "Crow", who feels like a cross between a dark/negative Holy Ghost and a primal energy of the death that resides in all life -- not God, but a god, one who's ultimately a reflection of all that is egotistical, ugly, unconscious, on the edge of sanity
The book is dedicated to Hughes' lover and child, Assia and Shura (the woman he left Plath for, who committed suicide and also killed their 4-year-old), and though he was working on these poems before her suicide, it feels as if there is a tremendous amount of remorse and self-loathing contained within (perhaps guilt over Plath's suicide, if not foreboding about what was to come 6 years later).
This book came out the year after Assia's suicide.Here were some of my favorites:Examination at the Womb-DoorCrow and the Birds (note the poem is under an illustration inspired by it, done by Rachael DinnageCrow's VanityCrow's Elephant Totem Song
After some hard galloping,Some manoeuvering, much flapping of the backwardLump head of the lamb looking out,I caught her with a rope.
I felt inside,Past the noose of mother-flesh, into the slipperyMuscled tunnel, fingering for a hoof,Right back to the port-hole of the pelvis.But there was no hoof.
No hand could squeeze pastThe lamb's neck into her interiorTo hook a knee.
I wentTwo miles for the injection and a razor.Sliced the lamb's throat-strings, levered with a knifeBetween the vertebrae and brought the head offTo stare at its mother, its pipes sitting in the mudWith all earth for a body.
Till I forcedA hand past and got a knee.
I think the closest I have come is poetry studied as part of an English Literature 'O Level' several decades ago.With my inexperience in mind, Crow might not be the best place to start.
I certainly can't claim that my life has taken me anywhere near the place Ted Hughes was in when he wrote this.
But I do know I could feel the grief, bitterness and rage.
He writes of pain and suffering.I feel compelled to put this on my "to re-read" list.
It is not a collection that can be read once and left to gather dust.
It demands to be re-read.
I decided to give this book a "re-read" after many years.
I always felt that of solitary books of poetry, it is one of the greatest published in the 20th century.
If you look at it even through the prism of the 21st century, it seems as prophetic for now as it was a commentary on the past century.It did not take me long to read the book.
It is an interesting "statement" if you will, and a unique book of poetry.
I've not read a collection like it before.
I rarely read poetry, but I enjoyed this strange little book by Ted Hughes.
I suspect Hughes drew on a lot of mythological sources in these poems, many of which I am blissfully unaware of, but it didn't seem to matter - even in the poems where I wasn't sure what he was driving at, I was pleased by the rhythm of the language, somehow different in each poem but forming a coherent whole.There's a lot more you could say about these poems - you could probably do a whole English Literature course on them - but I don't want to go that deep.
In native American culture in particular, the Crow was seen as the eternal trickster, even a figure of malice in the forms of the Universe.
In this pivitol collection, Hughes appropriates the Crow's mythic role and uses it as a mocking narrator to journey the horrors of the Twentieth Century, including the repressive events of Eastern Europe and the violent incursion of technology and post industrialisation into nature's den.
There is a sadism in these poems, that initially arrests the reader, but coupled with the Crow's primordial nihilsim, a clever dark comedy is achieved by the time we reach the final lines...One of Ted's best.
A reread.All the poems in Crow are in a stark, bold typescript that flies off the page at you and suit the thunderous poetry about the wild trickster of existence written by a poet who himself had godlike looks and talent.
Hughes's language is incantatory, aggressive, and riveting.
The language struts like you'd expect Crow to strut after having scared the dawn away or found some deliciously foul meal.
In the same way I do with Eliot, I have to occasionally touch base with these irresistible poems about a bird larger than all existence who's probably responsible for all existence.
the finest cycle of poetry I've ever read - warm, meaty, harsh and cawing likes it's title suggests. Bullets wouldn't cut through this fleshy example of what one could do with verse, just don't forget to turn the gas off...
Fantastic!
I really could, but for the sake of ensuring this is a “review" (if even that), here is Keith Sagan on the origin of Crow from his book The Art of Ted Hughes:God, having created the world, has a recurring nightmare.
I’ll just finish off with one poem that I can copy and paste in (oh, I’m lazy, I know) and  a little recording of Hughes on Crow.Crow Blacker than ever When God, disgusted with man, Turned towards heaven.
And man, disgusted with God, Turned towards Eve, Things looked like falling apart.
Incredible. I'm salty about his portrayal of women, but he's an incredible writer and Crow is a collection I'll come back to time and again.
Hughes called her suicide “the end of [his] life,” but that darkness was compounded further when Assia Wevill, his lover, killed herself and their daughter six years later in exactly the same way as Plath (also after Hughes had another affair).While it has been popular to paint Hughes as a unrepentant monster responsible for the deaths of two women, the poet was devastated by the human destruction around him.
It also has very good ratings on Goodreads.I guess I’m a black sheep because I kinda hated this book.
The collection is about a mythological crow that causes destruction in the human world.
I don’t mind reading angry literature, but it’s emotionally draining, so I want to feel like I’m getting something out of it.
Why did I read it?My favorite poem in the book is “Apple Tragedy.” The ending is so unexpected that it made me laugh.
I guess I missed whatever is so amazing about this collection.“To hatch a crow, a black rainbowBent in emptinessover emptinessBut flying” - Crow
Creeping, foreboding, operatic; Crow is a collection of related poetry climbing the mountainous, mythological obstructions of religion.
A satire of narratives depicting the ridiculousness of "belief", Hughes' disbelief in modern society's importance on church, and his fear of the ultimate ending: death.
Ted Hughes writes prolifically and without fear, death is the end all be all; therefore, why pervert the human existence with such idle pretenses.
Simply a great piece of poetry.
5/5 - I'm not used to reading poetry, but this was right up my alley. Dark, depressingly raw, gritty,... and the character of Crow was completely fascinating.
"The crows seemed to be calling his name, thought Caw." - Jack Handy
LISTEN. I did not expect to like this at all. Poetry and I don't get each other, so deep and dark poetry may as well mean nothing to me. BUT THIS. I'm not going to lie and say I understood it, that I felt it, but I can say that I felt some of it, and understood a little bit--I like this poetry. Shocking, for me. An impressive feat, Hughes. My favourite: Lovesong. (Love is just easier to get). Apple Tragedy is a close second, I wanna be wrapped in that poem; I read it three times.
Most of the poems in this collection center on a mythical-like character named Crow, a guy who resembles that feathery fellow cleaning up the mess our cars leave on the roads (thanks, Crow).
In Hughes' vision, Crow is a bit like a trickster, a naughty god, at times funny, at times evil, at times annoying.
This collection was brutal and bleak, the figure of Crow flapping through each poem sometimes with humour, sometimes with despair.
It's missing its fifth star because of the way it plays around with -- and satirises -- notions of God, the Devil and the Fall, but overall, absolutely marvellous.
Crow Frowns
Of the eight books I've read, this is Hughes' best (apart from maybe the beautiful River.) In one way, it should have five stars because it's one of the best things I've ever read, but I'm still uneasy with its hatred of Christianity.
It's absolutely brutal.
Some poems went right over my head no matter how many times I would read them.
Others read like pretentious claptrap.
Uma pessoa aqui nos comentários disse "Crow is horror poetry", e eu não poderia concordar mais.
"Crow" é uma coleção de poemas terrivelmente tristes, sombrios, devastadores (e lindíssimos).
Death.Who owns this bristly scorched-looking face?
Death.Who owns these still-working lungs?
Death.Who owns this utility coat of muscles?
Death.Who owns these unspeakable guts?
Death.Who owns these questionable brains?
Death.All this messy blood?
Death.This wicked little tongue?
Death.This occasional wakefulness?
Death.Given, stolen, or held pending trial?Held.Who owns the whole rainy, stony earth?
Death.Who owns all of space?
Death.Who is stronger than hope?
Death.Who is stronger than the will?
Death.Stronger than love?
Death.Stronger than life?
The book has been dedicated to the memory of Assia Wevill and her child Shura.
I think Assia Wevill was really a challenging dramatic figure we can't ignore.
The book starts with a poem called "Two Legends" I suppose these two legends are the legends of Sylvia Plath and Assia Wevill.
Nobody mourned for her except Hughes who Knew her legend.
She belonged to the world of charm and poetry.A wanderng Jewish and a chrismatic figure and this is her legend:Black is the wet otter's head, liftedBlack is the rock, plunging in foamBlack is the gall lying on the bed of the blood
Crow is a hallucinatory combination of Native American myths, ancient Greek fables, Old and New Testament stories, and Hughes' animal imagery. The collection is loosely centered on the figure of Crow, but the breath of styles and themes is very wide. To me, the figure of Crow seemed a sort of trickster/scavenger personification of poetry itself, tearing apart and refashioning the world in black ink. Anyway, I enjoyed this, but maybe not as much as some of Hughes' other volumes, particularly Hawk in the Rain, which is my personal favourite.
I don't know if Mrs Dalloway has just put a massive downer on everything I read but I really didn't enjoy this as much as Moortown Diary, I felt like every poem sort of missed the mark and none of them really drew me in. Some just seemed like a mishmash of sentences that didn't really seem to work together, and others were just lists of random objects really. I much preferred Moortown Diary, I might re-read this at some point to see if maybe it is just my run of bad classics getting in the way.
