https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13278166-the-dreams-in-the-witch-house
I'm growing to appreciate HP Lovecraft's shorter works. In The Dreams of the Witch House, Lovecraft evokes both a nameless horror and moves the story at a decent pace. A general sense of foreboding dominates this story and it works here because there is a plot moving the story forward.  Unfortunately, while Lovecraft's ideas behind interdimensional horror which he introduces in the story are interesting, he isn't able to successfully pull that part off. His description seems forced and doesn't work with the tone of the story. Still, I enjoyed this story and liked how it concluded. 3.25 stars.
Dreams turning into nightmares!  RENTING WITCH-HOUSE This is yet other tale part of the Cthulhu Mythos.A student from the Miskatonic University, goes to rent an attic room in a house named as “The Witch House” and known to be cursed by the people of Arkham, Mass.. First, if that house is known to be “cursed” in a town sooo cursed like Arkham,......DANG!......Why the heck that student was so dumb to rent that attic? Much less keep living there?!Anyway, he started to have dreams about geometry, c
This is yet other tale part of the Cthulhu Mythos.A student from the Miskatonic University, goes to rent an attic room in a house named as “The Witch House” and known to be cursed by the people of Arkham, Mass..
First, if that house is known to be “cursed” in a town sooo cursed like Arkham,......DANG!......Why the heck that student was so dumb to rent that attic?
Much less keep living there?!Anyway, he started to have dreams about geometry, colors and sounds that can’t be described or named in human terms,......along with interactions with a witch,......compelled to participate in unholy rituals!
Lovecraft’s artistic conception was certainly an ambitious one: to compose an account (not of interstellar but) of inter-dimensional visitation which the reader glimpses beneath the surface of the conventional panoply of New England witchcraft (evil crone, gothic mansion, furry familiar, “The Blackman,” etc.) Think of it!
Gilman sometimes compared the inorganic masses to prisms, labyrinths, clusters of cubes and planes, and Cyclopean buildings; and the organic things struck him variously as groups of bubbles, octopi, centipedes, living Hindoo idols, and intricate Arabesques roused into a kind of ophidian animation.
Jerry, George, Elaine and Kramer sit at their favorite table at the café and discuss HP Lovecraft’s 1933 short story “The Dreams in the Witch House”.George: See, that’s why we started rent control, even back then a good studio apartment was valuable – haunted, possessed by a two hundred year old witch and her malevolent rat-like familiar, maybe a portal to a demon – but still rentable.Kramer: And ya gotta say, the super was trying, I mean he put down rat poison – there’s plenty of sub-leases today – forget it!Elaine: So … why did we all read this stupid 80-year-old story again?
Lovecraft Illustrated Volume 2Contents:ix - Introduction by S.T. Joshi03 - "The Dreams in the Witch House" by H.P. Lovecraft 53 - "Through Hyperspace with Brown Jenkins" by Fritz Leiber
*Όνειρα στο σπίτι της Μάγισσας: 5/5 ,το εκτενέστερο διήγημα της συλλογής και αυτό που μου άρεσε πιο πολύ*Ο αλχημιστής: 3/5 ,καλό αλλά λίγο αδιάφορο*Η μουσική του Έριχ Τσαν: 3/5 ,επίσης καλό αλλά λίγο αδιάφορο*Η γιορτή: 3,5/5 ,αρκετά καλό*Ο φόβος που ενέδρευε: 4,5/5 ,πολύ καλό*Το μοντέλο του Πίκμαν: 3/5 , καλό αλλά λίγο βαρέθηκα*Ο ναός: 4/5 ,κι αυτό πολύ ωραίο*Το δέντρο 3,5/5 ,το μικρότερο από όλα τα διηγήματα, αρκετά συμπαθητικό Τα συγκεκριμένα διηγήματα είναι η πρώτη μου επαφή με το έργο του Lovecraft και μπορώ να πω πως έμεινα αρκετά ικανοποιημένη.
Φαν των διηγημάτων δεν είμαι αλλά αυτά μου άρεσαν αρκετά.
Δεν ενδείκνυνται για μεταμεσονύχτιο διάβασμα!
In the end, the monster bursts out, hatching from the shell of a human body: a ghastly image that Ridley Scott translated into film, at the starting point of his Alien series.At times, this tale made me think of De Quincey's Confessions of an English Opium Eater.
Be it as it may, it certainly has ramifications into more recent literature (the daemons of Pullman's His Dark Materials) and film (David Lynch’s repeated witch dreams in, say, his masterpiece, Mulholland Drive).
Masters of Horror: season 1, episode 2This short story was just not my cup of tea. I struggled through it, but it was a hard, hard story to complete.
These old sci-fi/horror stories are fun.
They are filled with Victorian era supposition (or post-Victorian in this case) in which scientific explanation is given for the supernatural.
These stories come out of a time when science started to be able to explain things like time and space and so credence was given to some historical superstitions.
My favorite such example was: "Elwood agreed that Gilman had good scientific grounds for thinking she might have stumbled on strange and significant information....it was by no means impossible that Keziah had actually mastered the art of passing through dimensional gates."Overall it is short and interesting.
I mean the witch coming for the protagonist through his dreams with the little rat creature Brown Jenkins, with the human face and 4 hands, were pretty creepy, and there is a lot of weird and grotesque elements in the book, but a lot of the psychological tension in the story is undermined by the fact that we get to see what the horror is ie the irrational fear of the unknown, unseen terror doesn't come into play to a significant degree, if at all.There are arguably two distinct elements of the book which were discussed on the podcast - one is the sci fi element where the idea that if we knew the right numbers or the right math we could transport ourselves to anywhere in the universe or even into a parallel universe or dimension.
This science fiction paranormal horror story should be enough for any fan.
The mathematical explanations aren't my thing.
It can get a bit too detailed for my taste.
Still, the main idea that if we knew the right mathematical formulae, we wouldn't be bound to our dimension or universe is interesting.
I liked the idea for the story itself and that ending didn't hurt it one bit.
Soon, weird things start happening to him and around him.The paranormal elements are great.
Unexplained events, weird evil creatures that come at night and attack you in your sleep, murders and kidnappings and so on - all contribute to the general creepy atmosphere of the house.
Ατμοσφαιρικός, ζοφερός, πλέον λατρεμένος!!!
It is Donnie Darko meets The Blair Witch Project. One of those unique stories by Lovecraft where science-fiction, fantasy and horror are blended for the best, or should I say... the worst? One sentence from the text says it all: “he began to connect his mathematics with the fantastic legends of elder magic”, the rest is an escalation towards the ultimate horror.
Aunque me ha gustado quizá sea el que menos me haya gustado de los que he leído de Locecraft. Demasiada paranoia en ciertos momentos para mi gusto.
Yeah, it's Lovecraft, so it's got the usual overwrought, portentous language, and lengthy, wordy descriptions involving impossible angles, unreal violet light, and inexplicable events. Because this book is about dreams encroaching into the real world, the excess works for me. A lot of Lovecraft's mythos is showcased in this story, and I do love Nyarlathotep, so flawed as it is, I enjoyed this one.
Read this as part of The Complete Works of H.P. Lovecraft.A delightfully creepy story - though one wonders why the students insisted on living in such a place. I think I would've rather slept outside than slept in this house. A very solid entry in Lovecraft's Cthulhu mythos.
We had to read this for class, along with At The Mountains of Madness (also by Lovecraft), and I have to say that I enjoyed this one much more than ATMM.
This was a very powerful and vivid story. Lovecraft used his theme of long walks in this story and it worked in rather well.
According to Dr. Ahmed Khaled Tawfik's article, Lovecraft actually contacted those aliens.Turns out, according to Dr. Tawfik, aliens are devils expelled from Earth.
No sé si soy yo y no era el momento adecuado pero me ha parecido un libro un poco lioso, había momentos en que tenía que volver atrás porque me perdía. Esto ha hecho que no haya disfrutado de la historia como debía.Era mi estreno con Lovecraft y no ha habido suerte, probaré con otros libros suyos que seguramente me gusten más.
El cuento engancha en un principio, pero a medida que la historia se desarrollaba me costaba más leerlo.
Creo que el hecho de que estoy jugada con los tiempos, porque un un rato es la reunión del club hizo que lo leyera rápido y eso me abrumó.
La lectura para la 2da mitad se me hizo bastante densa.(view spoiler)[ Quiero creer que Gilman en realidad era un asesino, que en sus estados de sonambulismo, terminó matando a niños y a la "bruja", y se encontraron tiempo después los esqueletos que lo incriminaban.
He tends to write through so many veils, and keeps so distant from his material, that it is hard to empathize with any of the characters, even as horrible things are happening.
I guess that may just be a part of writing about unspeakable horror.
And this story comes pretty close.The idea that witchcraft may just be advanced math is pretty scary.
Its one that also comes up, to different effect but with the same basic mechanism, in Stephenson's Anathem.
And its interesting to think that Lovecraft was already onto, in some sense, the modern idea of the multiverse - long before Kripke ever conceived of any "possible world."
1.5 estrellas.Me lo encontré aburridísimo. El estilo de este autor definitivamente no es para mí, pura narración, nada pero nada de diálogos y para colmo bien pesado. La trama estuvo más o menos, el final fue lo que más me gustó y fue lo único que salvó este cuento de un 1.
4.25 stars. Well this was weird? Review to come.
That almost made me want to go look up the lecture or the person which scared me more than the story, no I didn't look it up I wouldn't understand a word of it.But the thing that makes me sure that none of this would have ever happened to me, after the first paragraph that is, were the rats.
Our main character, Walter Gilman, moves to a new town and is excited to learn that there is a room for rent in the old "Witch House" as it is called.
Non-Euclidean calculus and quantum physics are enough to stretch any brain; and when one mixes them with folklore, and tries to trace a strange background of multi-dimensional reality behind the ghoulish hints of the Gothic tales and the wild whispers of the chimney-corner, one can hardly expect to be wholly free from mental tension.
(On a personal note, I think this is the first female character in Lovecraft's works with real agency, as well.
Huge trigger warning for child (view spoiler)[death (hide spoiler)], though.) I loved this.(Minor note: this is actually set, like most of Lovecraft's Sabbat stories, around Walpurgis Night.
**Leído para el Club de Lectura**Para la segunda entrega del Club de Lectura le tocó a Gloria elegir el libro, y se decidió por una selección de cuentos de Lovecraft.Por comentarios que me habían hecho acerca de este cuento esperaba otra cosa, y cuando finalmente lo leí me sorprendió positivamente.
De nuevo mi fé en Lovecraft se renovó xDMe gustó que a diferencia de otros cuentos del autor el protagonista se mantuviera escéptico durante la mayor parte de la historia, no admitiendo hasta ultimo momento la posibilidad de que lo que soñaba fueran más que sueños inducidos por la fiebre y la sugestión de sus estudios.
Dreams in the Witch House is an excellent short story of black magic, a nasty old witch, her ratty familiar, and a few poor college students of Miskatonic University who decide to save a few bucks by staying in the local haunted house, currently with rooms to let dirt cheap. This is excellent Lovecraft, in my opinion, and I enjoyed the story of Walter Gilman immensely. There's blood sacrifice, slanted ceilings and scratching behind the walls. There's travel to different dimensions. References to the Necronomicon, and my new favorite bad guy, Nyarlathotep. Good stuff, like my ex-father-in-law would say.
After having gotten side-tracked by Stephen King's delicious The Bazaar of Bad Dreams I got back to the second half of this wonderfully creepy classic. Lovecraft may have been a racist, and some of his depictions of "foreigners" and "immigrants" in this story illustrate that xenophobic stereotyping, but he was still a master at crafting delightfully eerie tales of the weird and disturbing. This is a perfect example.
Here we have Lovecraft's take on a wicked witch, and it's one of my favorites. You've got most of the classic themes - strange math and weird geometry, different dimensions and higher states of being, a historical mystery whose unraveling leads to madness and insanity, deals with shadowy avatars and strange unnatural creatures - what's not to love.
