https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47401.Chocolat
Some subjects found in this story:letting go - of children as they grow up and of loved ones who diemoving on - from bad relationships and harmful habitsnature/nurturefacing your fearsloving friends/family/strangers for who they arethe assumptions people make about each otherthe right to dieheeding your own advicetolerance/eradicating temptationclassismfeeling powerlesswanting to control people "for their own good"/letting people make their own decisions even when you disagreeAlso, the priest in the book isn't so simple and evil as people want to believe.
Should he let them fall into sin, lose faith and suffer damnation, or sacrifice his own morality to save theirs?
During the traditional season of fasting and self-denial; she gently changes the lives of the villagers who visit her with a combination of sympathy, subversion and a little magic.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیستم ماه سپتامبر سال 2009 میلادیعنوان: شکلات؛ نویسنده: جوآن (ژوان) هریس؛ مترجم: طاهره صدیقیان؛ تهران، کتابسرای تندیس، 1380، در 406 ص؛ شابک: 9645757207؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان انگلیسی سده 20 معنوان: شکلات؛ نویسنده: جوآن (ژوان) هریس؛ مترجم: گیسو ناصری؛ تهران، واژگان، 1381، در 368 ص؛ شابک: 9646664016؛ چاپ دیگر در سال 1381 نشر گیلونه؛ نقل از متن کتاب شکلات: «کار اتاق زیر شیروانی، تقریبا تمام شده، بعضی جاهایش، گچ هنوز خشک نشده؛ اما پنجره ی جدید، مثل پنجره ی کشتی، گرد و دور برنجی، تکمیل شده‌ است.
Determined to rid the town of both the river gypsies as well as the influence of Vianne Rocher, Père Reynaud readies himself and his church for the battle between what he considers good versus evil.
They are sly, occasionally vicious, pathologically stupid." He is arrogant and overly confident: "When Vianne Rocher sees the power of the church - my influence over every single soul in the community - then she will know she has lost." Can Vianne and Père Reynaud exist side by side in this small community?The story alternates between the first person narration of Vianne and Père Reynaud, allowing the reader to become quite intimate with the innermost thoughts of these complex characters.
The darkness to her light is the local priest, Francis Reynaud, who makes it his business to try to rid the town of this impure non-believer, and spoil her planned chocolate festival.
Vianne’s humanity proves decisive for many in the town, Josephine, who finds the strength to leave her abusive spouse.
Most chapters tell Vianne’s story, but some are told through the eyes of Reynaud, as he speaks of his fear, desires and crimes to his comatose predecessor.
Harris has made her demons quite dark, but allows a glimmer of humanity to peep through.
Chocolate, crazy-fun old ladies, Bible thumpers learning to lighten up, French people, witchcraft, and sexy gypsies. Come on, say no to any of those things. I dare you.
Therefore, I started reading this with no preconceived notions.
(Well, no more than usual, anyway.)I liked Chocolat but there were several glaring annoyances that ruined it for me.I did not appreciate the "chocolate lovers vs.
I liked him.Also, the moral of this book seemed to be: "Indulge yourself!
Reading it was like eating a confection you know is not very good when compared with something of a higher calibre, but you keep mindlessly eating it anyway though you're not sure why.Oh!
Which reminds me: Don't read this book if you're on a diet.
Having read and loved Five Quarters of the Orange  by Joanne Harris, I was really looking forward to reading Chocolat. Unfortunalty this particular book just didnt suit me.I didn't enjoy the plot of the novel and the found the characters underdeveloped and no sense of time and place. I rarly rate a novel 1 star but I found nothing in this stroy to to keep me entertained and I felt like I was reading each chapter over and over. I did finish the book as I was waiting for something to happen that w
Having read and loved Five Quarters of the Orange
by Joanne Harris, I was really looking forward to reading Chocolat.
Unfortunalty this particular book just didnt suit me.I didn't enjoy the plot of the novel and the found the characters underdeveloped and no sense of time and place.
I rarly rate a novel 1 star but I found nothing in this stroy to to keep me entertained and I felt like I was reading each chapter over and over.
Many of my friends have loved this book but it just didnt work for me.
Like so many people I read the book after I saw the movie.
I can see why people would be upset with the book after seeing the movie - the book is a different story in many ways.
I think the tone of the book threw me off more than anything.
I have to say I really enjoyed both the book and the movie.
So to be able to walk away from the book and think that I would read more by Joanne Harris is a good thing.
It made me think about what it means to hear someone say that they had lived a good life and how they wanted that life to end on their own terms.I loved the little French town, Lansquenet-sous-Tannes, that Vianne and her daughter Anouk found themselves in after the carnival was over.
Vianne tells the story to us, the reader, and the Monsieur tells his to someone called only "mon pere".
A struggle between good and evil in a tiny little villiage that did not take well to outsiders.This was the first book that I have read by Joanne Harris.
That’s a guarantee because I don’t even love chocolates that much.
They were written to perfection)-Themes of religion, superstition, prejudice towards gypsies, the idea of Home to those who are always on the run etcI had forgotten how the book was and the movie had imprinted itself in my thoughts.
I loved the book.
I kept reading searching for A’s party because it is one of the BEST scenes in the movie.
And the movie is better than the book.
You might say the book is more realistic, but why don’t we have happy endings over warm chocolate drinks?
Per la mia torta cuore tenero servono : 200 gr di cioccolato fondente, scegliete quello che preferite più dark è meglio è;120 gr di zucchero;100 gr di burro;3 uova;50 gr di cacao ma io ne metto sempre 75 così faccio fuori il pacco (sempre per il principio di cui sopra, dark è dark!)100 gr di farina 1 bustina di lievito;zucchero a velo per guarnire.Il burro e le uova dovrebbero essere a temperatura ambiente ma visto che mi decido sempre all’ultimo minuto e non mi va di aspettare fa lo stesso, anche per voi eh!Sciogliete insieme burro e cioccolato a bagnomaria, nel frattempo ( che bello questo vocabolo in cucina, mi sono sempre immaginata come la dea Khalì, peccato che sia un tantino lontana) dicevamo, nel frattempo unite zucchero e tuorli d’uovo girando fino a far diventare una crema spumosa ( se non viene aggiungete un goccio di latte).
I dare anyone to read this novel and not hunger for something sweet.This is a wonderful tale of family and magic and hope. It is not your typical romance and well worth the time. You may find yourself wishing for a confection or two...before you've finished reading. Devlin
Simply magical.
I remembered that I did read this book a long time ago and cannot remember the actual date. I am not re-reading it.
Lo ammetto, comprare questo libro maliziosamente intitolato 'Chocolat' è stato più un peccato di gola, che un vero e proprio slancio letterario.
Non sono quindi rimasta sorpresa - semmai inondata dall'acquolina - quando, sfogliando le pagine ed inghiottendo le righe di Joanne Harris ho sentito soffiare un vento di magia che è possibile annusare nella dolce fragranza di cioccolato.
There was not enough for me to develop emphathy for anyone in the book except the guy with the little, old dog.I also have a problem with an author being so blatant about the axe they have to grind with any particular group.
But when those of different belief systems have to put down others to make themselves feel wise or superior (ie, refer to religious people as those who believe in fairy tales), it is counter productive to the message that we should all be accepting of others' differences (as I thought was a main theme of the book), and turns the author and main character into hypocrites.
I liked the style, alternating chapters narrated by the heroine,chocolate shop owner Vianne Rocher, and her nemesis, the village priest. The book creates charming images of creativity and sensitivity on the part of Vianne, contrasted with dark images of guilt and rigidity on the part of the priest. Free spirits versus conforming traditionalists. Love and friendship versus control and manipulation. Color and joie de vivre versus blackness and regret. Hints of deeper mystery in the past.
This fairy-tale like novel about a woman who sets up a chocolate shop in a French village has one of the most beautiful and immersive settings I've read about lately. It's not fast paced but it is certainly enchanting. The setting is the best part but the interaction between characters is almost as good; I think there's more nuance in the characters than some of the reviews pick up on.
So much chocolate (in liquid form) was consumed during the reading of this book.
Po dešimties metų nuo pirmojo perskaitymo - vis dar 5/5.
Harris' prose here is at its finest, as we follow the narratives of Vianne, the free-spirited chocolate-creating witch, and Reynaud, the guilt-stricken oppressive village priest.
The problem is - like Vianne's chocolates - delicate and bitter-sweet, with possibilities abounding on either side.Beautifully drawn characters become very real.
My favorites were Anouk, Vianne's utterly delightful child (not to be without her imaginary rabbit friend, Pantoufle); Guillaume who comes out of his shell after the death of his beloved dog, Charly; and of course Mme. Armande Voizin who was reunited with her grandson even under the close scrutiny of her self-important daughter.
"Places all have their characters, and returning to a city you've lived before is like coming home to an old friend.
I discarded books left and right, I was in the mood for something literary and after re-watching the movie - I settled on this one.
I decided to savor it as one would a piece of chocolate, slowly, letting it melt into my mouth so that I could absorb the flavor better.The book is similar to the movie and yet very different - surprisingly I like both in their own way.
It was a beautiful novel, full of magic, luscious descriptions of chocolate and other confections, and human relationships.
I think I prefer the movie villain as the book's villain is a bit too typical.
Vianne, who is a witch of sorts, arrives with her young daughter in a small French town and opens a chocolate shop.
This is an enjoyable, light read, but one thing that confused me was when the novel was taking place.
I remember reading a part about someone watching videos, but the idea of a priest being upset over people eating chocolate seems so bizarrely anachronistic that I assumed it couldn't be set anywhere near modern times.
I suppose they couldn't have made a film if Vianne had come to town to open up a porno shop.
Joanne Harris made me long to move to Europe. More fantasizing about small town, rural life. And the descriptions of the chocolate left me dreaming about rose creams, amaretto, pain au chocolat...why is it that these books that leave me hungry and dissatisfied are some of my favorites? Really. This book is full of luscious sentences, beautiful descriptions, and alluring personalities. It's different from the movie - but both have the same spirit of magical glamor. And both make me need to go get a truffle.
خواندن كتاب " شكلات"اولين تجربه خواندن رمان بعد ديدن فيلمش بود.
خانم شكلات فروشي در يكي از روستاهاي جنوبي فرانسه كه تحت امر كشيش چه اي اداره مي شود، بساط شكلات فروشي و مهرباني با مردم پهن مي كند.
از روز اول، كشيش بي دليل، شكلات را خلاف ارزشهاي ديني معرفي مي كند ومجبور مي شود وارد دعوا شود و معلوم است كه پيروز ماجرا شكلات فروش است.
كتاب را كه مي خواندم به انديشه خودمان بودم كه چقدر بي دليل ارزشهايي درست كرديم و دراجرا مانديم و مردم را از دين دور كرديم.
فيلم شكلات هم معروف است.
B.R.A.CE. 2018 4 βιβλία με γυναίκες πρωταγωνίστριες    (2/4)Ναι, το παραδέχομαι! Έχοντας δει την ταινία και έχοντας παρακολουθήσει το Καφέ της Χαράς αντιμετώπισα προβλήματα! Ευτυχώς το βιβλίο δεν μεταφέρθηκε ακριβώς στην ταινία ( πότε συμβαίνει αυτό άλλωστε; ) και είχα την χαρά να δω κάποια γεγονότα να εξελίσσονται κάπως διαφορετικά και το ενδιαφέρον μου να παραμένει σε καλό επίπεδο. Αλλά θα πω ότι η ταινία εξύψωσε το βιβλίο. Δεν μετανιώνω που το διάβασα, μου άρεσε ιδιαίτερα που είχα μία την ο
B.R.A.CE. 2018 4 βιβλία με γυναίκες πρωταγωνίστριες 
  
 (2/4)Ναι, το παραδέχομαι! Έχοντας δει την ταινία και έχοντας παρακολουθήσει το Καφέ της Χαράς αντιμετώπισα προβλήματα! Ευτυχώς το βιβλίο δεν μεταφέρθηκε ακριβώς στην ταινία ( πότε συμβαίνει αυτό άλλωστε; ) και είχα την χαρά να δω κάποια γεγονότα να εξελίσσονται κάπως διαφορετικά και το ενδιαφέρον μου να παραμένει σε καλό επίπεδο. Αλλά θα πω ότι η ταινία εξύψωσε το βιβλίο. Δεν μετανιώνω που το διάβασα, μου άρεσε ιδιαίτερα που είχα μία την οπτική της Βιάν και μία του κληρικού. Αλλά μέχρι εκεί. Και το κατηγορώ επίσης γιατί η μερέντα μου κατέβηκε 3 δάχτυλα...
There is so much of racism in the World today, that Vianne's fight for the Gypsies to be accepted in that little town comes as a breath of fresh, heady air, much like Vianne herself.I also liked the idea of good fun in a very tight, moralistic society, the entire town seemed to have let their hair down and had fun.
Good food, lots of music and dancing and tons of Chocolate too.
There is always a catalyst on such occasions and Vianne was the flute of champagne in that uptight little town, opening a lot of minds and sweeping away the cobwebsWhat a beautiful book.
A Lenten Easter treat. I like the way the author puts words together.

جذبم نکرد. شاید نباید بعد از خوندن اثر کوتوله های مقدس از همین نویسنده، این کتاب رو می خوندم. هر چقدر اون کشش داشت این خیلی معمولی بود. شخصیت زن داستان به نظرم دقیقا کپی شخصیت زن داستان کوتوله های مقدس بود. یک زن کولی وار با دختر بچه ای که پدرش مشخص نیست! زن عصیانگر و جذاب و نیمه افسون گر! خوب در نوع خودش شخصیت جالبیه ولی تکرارش شاید جذاب نباشه. در هر حال شکلات به نظر من داستان خیلی قوی و پر کششی نبود
