https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17830123-we-are-not-ourselves
There were times that I thought that I was going to give it 3 and other times 5 stars, so I've settled in the middle of the two.Instead of being plot-driven this book seems to be solely character-driven where you get a feel of the families individual idiosyncrasies and if you pay particular attention to detail, you can see how the twists and turns in their lives cause subtle changes in each character as you would in real life.
This story is best summed up as being centered around one family, mostly following the mother Eileen, and their ups and downs throughout life.
I think deep down though that she loved him the best way that she knew how.Because this story is mainly character-driven, it is long and at times slow moving.
The word I keep coming back to with this book is "honest." No punches pulled here. These characters might let you down, they might not do what you want them to do in every instance, but damn if they don't feel real throughout. Still, the second half of this book is an epic, gut-punch of a page-turner. Highly recommended.
I wish I was a professional writer or reviewer so I could give this novel the brilliant review it deserves.
The story is so remarkable and emotional that it deserves to flow and gradually reveal itself to the reader.I loved Matthew Thomas's sparse writing style.
I loved his evocative character studies.
He seemed to write as if from a distance, but he knew his characters so intimately that I took them into my own heart.
I would be surprised if this novel doesn't earn all sorts of awards, and I think it will appeal to a wide spectrum of readers.
Did not finish. Characters were flat and plot mundane. It was just unrelenting misery throughout the story - alcoholism, miscarriages, death, illness, bullying - and that was only the first quarter of the book! I know I am in the minority as most people loved this book - but I needed to see a glimmer of hope (or even a likeable character), and Matthew Thomas failed to deliver it.
As bored with this book as Eileen was with her life. 100 pages in I figured something needed to change, and if it wasn't going to be her, it had to be me.
It’s a very stately, simple, no-flash account of an Irish American woman who meets a guy and has a son, that’s really it.
She wants to get out of the Jackson Heights neighborhood as it’s frankly going down, by which she means that the local skin colour is modulating in a brownish direction.
It’s almost dull to begin with, but that’s okay.
Or maybe the above notelet was given to a Trump family acquaintance who does use Queens Library?It's a Goodreads mystery.
Thomas' diligence paid off in a bidding war for his novel and with glowing early reviews from professionals and readers alike.
These two things combined make we want to get this right but unlike Matthew I don't have ten years.Simply stated We Are Not Ourselves is an impelling saga of a multigenerational Irish family and their life in New York.
Eileen Tumulty, daughter, wife, mother is at the center and the driving force of much of the novel.
We meet Eileen as a young girl and it is here, like most of us, that her self is formed.
Poignant, Timely Novel"If I could make days last forever / If words could make wishes come true / I'd save every day like a treasure and then / Again, I would spend them with you."Croce, Time in a Bottle, 1972An elegiac novel to a committed wife whose husband suffers early onset Alzheimer's.
I found particularly moving her ability to adapt and accept and cope with the loss of her dreams of a husband who's a dashing, successful professor arriving each evening to a beautiful home in the perfect suburb, all transformed into a constant pain and loneliness as passion and all their past slowly falls away like sand through an hour glass.A pure work of artistry in development of the characters of the wife, the husband and their son.
Eileen is the polestar of the family, and I deeply felt every twist and turn in her life.
However, these are minor irritants, and although it may have removed me from the novel for a few seconds, it didn't have severe consequences.I don't want to cover much detail, as the surprises and developments in the story daunted me as if I were one of the Leary family, a sort of free-fall that I felt for them when life handed them lemons.
And, although Eileen is a completely different character than Scarlett O'Hara, both Irish-American women possessed a certain degree of self-possession, and, especially, resourcefulness.
I may try to come back to this later, but I should note that it has taken me nearly a month to read the first 200 pages of this novel -- when I normally go through 2-3 books a week. Honestly? I think it's very well written, I'm just bored.
I don't think I'm qualified to declare this book a "Great American Novel," so I'll just call it a Great American Story... one whose quiet power I will long remember.
(Although I'm not sure how long it has been waiting in the mailbox...)This is the story of an Irish American girl from New York named Eileen Tumulty, who, because of her less-than-ideal family situation, is forced to care for her parents and grow up too fast.
Eileen, Ed and Connell are all people who think that they have everything under control, and they think that they have their futures all planned out, but they must eventually face the bleak truth that this is not the case.
The novel examines how the characters' choices, sometimes wise and sometimes not, affect them and the other members of the family.
It is often written in the third person, as such, this story is mostly told rather than felt.It begins in the 1950's childhood of our main character Eileen.
Coming from a painful Irish immigrant background, Eileen wants more out of life.
She is always looking for greener pastures, cares only what others may think of her, and believes having more is what life is about.
The child himself grows up indifferent and as such is reluctant to help, even when he is desperately needed.While I understand the need to better oneself, I believe this comes from the inside not the outside.
That's pretty much how I felt about the book overall because for me it's really a character driven story rather than one that is driven by the plot.A lot of ground is covered here.
Given her tough childhood, it makes perfect sense that Eileen wants bigger and better things in life – a bigger house, a more prestigious neighborhood – what she sees as a better life and you can’t fault her for those desires.
My least favorite part of the book was the pages and pages of Eileen whining and plotting about how to get that better house.
Meticulous and ponderous, Matthew Thomas's debut novel, We Are Not Ourselves spans several decades, from a classic New York Irish immigrant story to the grinding tragedy of dementia and health care in the 21st century United States (at least prior to the Affordable Care Act).
The relevance of Eileen Tumulty's childhood, her Irish immigrant parents, her mother's alcoholism, her father's conflicting public and private personas is lost as the decades roll on and Eileen becomes someone else entirely.
What we can and must endure for those we love is deeply private and personal; Matthew Thomas shows us the terrible costs exacted by dementia: the tragic loss of money, time, memory, patience, energy, vitality, and hope.
A very minor character appears in the second half of the book and I had to wade back through pages to remind myself who she was.
Another minor character’s part could easily have been written out.
Each of them must strive to figure out what’s important and what’s authentic in a life where the future is shady and the rules have been turned upside-down.This is a book that poses questions that each of us have mulled over in our minds.
What endures when little else remains?Matthew Thomas creates an authenticity in this story and breathes life into his characters.
Eileen (when she's all grown up) wants to move and buy a new house and wastes not only the realtor's time looking at properties she can't afford, but wastes the reader's time with unnecessary details; Ed (the husband) is behaving stranger and stranger every day and yet noone in his family (wife or son) or any of his colleagues or students, in fact, think he needs to see a doctor or get some help!
What kid getting bullied every day after school would not jump on the opportunity to get out of there?
Not all aspects of the novel are entirely satisfactory but the characterisation is strong,and interaction of the characters in this Irish American family is handled very well by the author.The plot is linear and predictable and overall the text could have been condensed.Nonetheless a thoroughly enjoyable read and I award 4 stars
Here’s one example:  “He asked her to get him another napkin, because they kept them behind the counter and it would have required some negotiation on his part to get one, and she felt a surge of connection to him that made all the nights of his holding her settle in, like a dog going to sleep with a sigh by a fireplace, and she wanted to reach out and touch his face, but she knew that she would never be with him, that something about the circumstances of how they’d come together made that impossible, that their lives were too different, too incommensurable, and that while they’d had this thing that she saw meant more to her than she’d understood while it was happening, it too, now, was gone.”Reviewers have said it took Thomas ten years to write this book.
WE ARE NOT OURSELVES by Matthew Thomas is a novel that starts off with a bang – the murder of a frog and a father abusing his son for it.
I stopped reading when my Kindle told me I was at 25% and I realized I no longer particularly cared what happened to these people.I’m still a little curious about the boy who murdered the frog, but I’m not that curious.The blurb that attracted me to this book on NetGalley mentioned the words masterwork, powerfully moving, epic in scope, heroic in character… I didn’t get those things.
There's such great heart in here.
(I am not ashamed to admit that this book had me in tears several times during rush hour on the Long Island Railroad.) Thomas pulls no punches.
Each character endures his or her share of failure and suffering, but redemption is always close by, either in the form of fatherly advice on a pilgrimage to Cooperstown, or in the day-to-day selfless tasks Eileen must perform for her husband in the face of tragic illness.
What you have here is a work of a genius, but he's a genius with a heart as big as his brain.
Spectacular. I cried through the last third, and I'm not much of a crier. And I found myself constantly astounded that this is a first novel. Six hundred pages and none of it wasted.
loved this book.
Thomas tells a real story, of every day people, sometimes not likable people, sad people who are living a real life.
The story follows a family as they grow apart and back together.There is tragedy and strength in this story and I will say there were parts I cried through.
His characters and their lives touched me, more that a book has in quite some time.
This is not an epic family saga, a huge dramatic display.
It is a quiet story, of love, of ambition, of loss, of acceptance, of growing older and wiser.
Raw emotion-that is what I felt reading  We Are Not Ourselves. This debut work is about a family…not the wider world or the major events of the more than six decades it covers, just a family. Not even an extraordinary family, just a typical American family with so many dreams and aspirations-some of which will be accomplished, but many more will be rationalized or compromised away. This book will leave you thinking deeply about your own life, your family and your place in the world. Stunning beautiful prose and the characters were so vibrant-I LOVED IT!!!
"You know other people won't understand them."One of those books that are so well done it seems beyond words to express how it makes you feel.
I loved every part of this, even the slow parts...
the parts that broke my heart, and even the stretches when not much happened.
They go through life doing the best they can, even when life throws things at them they didn't expect.
When a certain event happened, I was proud of them for how they handled it and pushed through.Words are failing me a bit here, which in its own way is a high compliment to the author.

I was also easily frustrated by Connell, who also seemed to lack a force of will unless it was to make the inappropriate choice.
BUT, it’s unfair to be too critical of Eileen and Connell having never experienced the challenges that these two characters are forced to bear.
I suspect most of us, having reached a certain age, have had to “recalibrate” what we hoped and planned our life would be into what we must accept it is.Although I think the novel has been over-hyped, I never considered stopping reading – it definitely holds one’s interest – but it could have benefited from tighter editing, in my opinion.(Note: For a wonderfully absorbing novel about the health care industry and what happens to a family when medical bills become insurmountable, I highly recommend Lionel Shriver's "So Much for That".)
Points for keeping me reading it even though at first I wasn't too interested. Still....the flow kept pulling me.But it came into its own about a third of the way in, as the real story began to emerge. Alzheimer's has such an insidious onset that it is hard to recognise at first. It gathers strength and becomes progressively disruptive of the mind, the personality, and the family. This was exceptionally well described and touching. And the letter toward the end squeezed a sob out, so bumped up for that too.
So when I read the description of this book on NetGalley it seemed to fit the bill perfectly.This book was described as 'epic in scope' so I suppose I was expecting much more of a intergenerational family saga with lots of energy, familial turmoil, engaging storylines and characters that I could root for.
Unfortunately, this book wasn't what I expected and I had a hard time staying interested.I admit that certain scenes were touching but overall the book felt excessively long and lagged most of the way.
This is a slow, quiet book about nothing and everything.
It follows the life of one woman from her childhood as the only daughter of Irish immigrants in New York City through her widowhood and her son’s maturation into an adult.
This is a novel about the relationship between parent and child, husband and wife, inner and outer self.
It is about the dreams of our parents, the courage to fight for dreams of our own, the maturity to accept the ways those dreams were modified by life.
This is a book about family, about the shape-shifting nature of love, about death.
