https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7011596-a-new-lease-of-death
This one is a much different book from its predecessor, yes there is also a mystery and Wexford is present, but only tangentially so.
The actual protagonist is a Reverend set on revisiting Wexford's first murder case to see if the victim might have been wrongly convicted.
This isn't as deft of a psychological fiction as Rendell's written nor is it as dark or as complex as her novels can be, but it's still quite good and for a three hours invested, plenty entertaining.
Quite possibly inferior to the first Wexford mystery, but then again a very different book and in its own right worth a read.
Read by...............
Nigel AnthonyTotal Runtime.........
6 Hours 53 MinsDescription: It was a brutal, vicious crime -- sixteen years ago.
A helpless old woman battered to death with an axe.
Harry Painter hung for it, and Chief Inspector Wexford is certain they executed the right man.
But Reverend Archery has doubts .
because his son wants to marry the murderer's beautiful, brilliant daughter.
He begins unravelling the past, only to discover that murder breeds murder -- and often conceals even deeper secrets .
AKA 'Sins of the Fathers'.3* From Doon With Death (Inspector Wexford, #1)CR A New Lease of Death (Inspector Wexford, #2)

Or rather, the father of the man she wants to marry comes knocking, hoping to prove that the woman his son loves isn’t descended from a mass murderer (this book has a retrograde notion of hereditary, though it could be just the character who is sort of an upper class ponce).
Anyway, it causes Wexford to reconsider his own role in the ancient murder and in doing so to uncover other secrets that lead to other crimes...A pretty good mystery, though its necessarily somewhat dated with its attitude to crime - the daughter is beautiful, kind and Oxford educated and still concedes that if her father is a criminal she isn’t good enough for the son.
Inspector Wexford takes a backseat to Reverend Archery in this murder mystery. The Reverend is concerned about having a daughter-in-law with a murderer for a father and tries to enlist the Inspector to help him prove that the father was innocent. Honestly the whole premise behind looking into the murder was rather annoying. The Reverend comes across as a self righteous prat, which if that was the intent it worked really well but it rather ruined the book for me.
Ruth Rendell's writing style is to my liking.2nd story in the Inspector Wexford series,and yes, I will continue to listen to more.This story was even better than the 1st.Narrator Nigel Anthony, did a very nice job.Great voices for each male and female characters..Almost clean, mild language.
This particular Rendell mystery I guess will be much better if it’s not the second Chief Inspector Wexford book.
Harry Painter is hung for it and Chief Inspector Wexford is certain that they executed the right man.
Readers might occasionally ask, what’s the point in reading?As the Inspector being certain that they hung the right man for his crime, a Reverend suddenly appears unto the scene only to question the killer’s execution.
Desperate to find if murder breeds murder and whether his son is in jeopardy for his own decision.As the case being sixteen years ago, Wexford is stubborn to take part on the Reverend’s investigation.
However, loved the story so much I soon forgot this problem.
Maybe it is because I live in the South (You know...Guns, God and more Guns) but not marrying just because your intended has a murderer in the family seems strange and limiting.
(In this story, the prospective groom's father, a clergyman, is concerned because his son wants to marry the daughter of an executed murderer.
He investigates the murder in order to prove or disprove the guilt of the man who was executed.
Well your Daddy is an axe murderer!" Instead the main character agonizes throughout the whole novel.
Archery's interest in the case stems from the fact that his son is now engaged to Painters daughter, Tess - now 20, but the daughter wants to walk away because she doesn't feel she's good enough because of her background.
How Tess, considering the fate of her father, was an intelligent woman, with a university education, compared to Lizzie, who had found the body.I could have done without the condescending attitude of Archery's son.
It's hard to say, as Wexford is a secondary character to Reverend Henry Archery, a poncy vicar come to Kingsmarkham to second guess Wexford's sixteen year old conviction of an axe murderer who was subsequently hanged.
Said murderer's daughter is now improbably at Oxford reading Modern Greats and engaged to marry this vicar's son.
Presumably the marriage just won't do (not that he'd be so vulgar as to come out and say so) unless Archery can prove that Wexford got it wrong.
Presumably in 1967 and only two stories in, this was still a serious possibility.
Archery's son has failed in love with Painter's daughter, who was only five at the time of the death, and while she is beautiful and smart, the minister can't see the match forward, afraid that she carries the same genes as her father.
But if there is reason to believe that Painter didn't really kill her ....Archery's questions set Wexford on his heels and throughout the book, he is set that he got the right man.
So for most of the book it is Archery -- and his son, Charles -- doing the digging, questioning and finding secrets that put a spin on everything that happened that night and afterwards.
Quite different to other Wexford titles and very clever. As the second in the series, perhaps Rendell had yet to work out how she wanted to write Wexford and I prefer this style.Similarly to her stand-alone titles, there are more points of view and one is partly second person. The reason is perfect and really made the story for me. I felt so much for Lizzie.Reading Rendell alongside Agatha Christie adds to both. Christie loved her "murder is genetic." Rendell often questions this, but not so much in A New Lease of Death.
Reverend Archery requests that Inspector Wexford open an old case of an elderly lady who was murdered by her servant.I've heard great things about Ruth Rendell so I continued past an underwhelming first book in the series to try a second. I can see where this book would have been considered good when it was written in 1967, but it doesn't hold up well over time. I won't be trying the third in the series.
Going back a few pages and asking "did you read this?" isn't the most pleasant experience.And yet, I didn't really dig this one.
Rendell begins to find her voice in this book, and I think she realizes that she can do more than the typical serial detective novel.
The Wexford of the series was barely in it at all, making the occasional cameo even though the whole novel takes place in his fictional Kingsmarket, and centers around his first murder case of 16 year ago (or so).
Half-way through this one and I was beginning to think Rendell's stand alone novels would be the stand outs, but then something weird happened.
Darn!In this mystery Wexford takes a back seat to the Reverend Henry Archerly, who is determined to prove that the father of his future daughter-in-law, a man named Bert Painter, didn't murder the elderly woman he worked for.
Therefore, for most of the book an amateur - Henry Archerly - conducts his own sort of slipshod investigation.
He finds himself attracted to a possible chief suspect (assuming Painter wasn't the murderer.) There's a big, decaying house which is meticulously described; an elderly woman with a fantastic memory; a gorgeous model; and various other characters, none of whom could possibly be said to be stereotyped.
The mystery is not one, which is almost a dare on the part of Rendell, particularly in only the second outing of her Holmes, Reg Wexford.
The Rev is more hidebound in his princess about his son becoming tied to the daughter of a murderer, but he assures himself it is because of his consideration of his parishioners.
And the reader is never given any reason to think well of Painter, the murderer, so we should know better than that Wexford screwed up the case.
Thus the working out involves both confirming the judgment of Wexford but also the wishes of the father.
Wexford is asked to meet Henry Archery who wants him to look again at the murder of Mrs Primero which happened fifteen years ago.
Wexford believes the correct verdict was reached and as it was his first murder case in which he was the officer in charge he is naturally a bit prickly about it.
Archery believes that the killer was wrongly convicted and sets out to prove it.
I like the police characters and the way Wexford and Burden interact.I first read this series more than twenty years ago and it has stood the test of time very well indeed and the books bear re-reading.
Despite the trite title - I typed it into goodreads and Rendell's novel wasn't even on the first page of search results for books called Sins of the Father(s) - this novel is a great mystery. I don't think Rendell is an especially amazing prose stylist or anything, but her characters here are fresh and startling, the plot and the story structure even more so in some ways. I see now why Rendell is so revered. Would make a great film.
The older generation seem set in their ways, puzzled and disturbed by the dismantling of the social scaffolding with its old rules, but their power still remains, particularly with regard to sex, gender and class.Wexford is challenged to re-examine his first ever murder case when a vicar (It wasn't too clear to me if he was a Reverend or a Father), Henry Archery contacts him, requesting to discuss the possibility of the guilty man, now hanged, having been innocent.The vicar's son it seems is now engaged to the daughter of Bert Painter, the man hanged for the murder of old Mrs Primero.
W moje dłonie trafiła długo wyczekiwana druga część serii kryminalnej o nadinspektorze Waxfordzie. Chociaż sama autorka nie żyje od trzech lat, dopiero teraz polscy czytelnicy mogą sięgnąć po jej książki, a zapewniam, że warto. W powieści „Grzechy ojców” Ruth Rendall stosuje ciekawy zabieg szeregu retrospekcji mających bezpośredni wpływ na teraźniejszość i całą akcję opowieści, w której uczestniczymy przekręcając kolejne strony. Ale przejdźmy do rzeczy: I tym razem okładka, mimo typowo „krymina
Ale przejdźmy do rzeczy:	I tym razem okładka, mimo typowo „kryminalnego” charakteru – zakrwawionego topora oraz rozbitych okularów – w niewytłumaczalny niemal sposób (zasługa grafika!) nie traci swojego delikatnego, kobiecego charakteru.
Drugi tom przygód nadinspektora Wexforda odznacza się również lekkim, niezwykle plastycznym stylem, który zdążyłam pokochać w „Z najlepszymi życzeniami śmierci”.
W tym celu nie zawaha się wertować dokumentów sądowych, odwiedzać miejsce zbrodni, ale również przesłuchiwać kolejnych świadków, a także uczestników wydarzeń sprzed lat.
Ruth Rendell doskonale rozłożyła napięcie całej historii, równoważąc je ciekawymi epizodami, wstawkami i zwrotami akcji, których po prostu nie da się przewidzieć!
Dopo "La morte non sa leggere", delizioso riuscitissimo thriller psicologico, questa mia seconda lettura di Ruth Rendell strappa a fatica la sufficenza.La storia, terza avventura del'ispettore Wexford (personaggio che ho trovato piuttosto antipatico), improntata sullo schema del giallo classico e la scrittura, abile a indagare nella pische e nell'animo dei personaggi, rendono il libro appetitoso fino alle prime cento pagine...poi, pian piano, perde mordente.
This is a different beast to the first one, with Wexford barely involved and having very little to do with driving the plot.
Instead he flits in and out and seems to take delight in winding people up.We instead spend most of the time with Archery, a clergyman going through a midlife crisis.
He’s a well written if slightly whiny and emo character and his journey contrasts nicely with the central mystery.It doesn’t feel much like a classic detective story but it does paint an vivid portrait of small town English life of a certain era and stands up psychologically rather well.
I enjoyed this book just as much as I did the first one. Unfortunately I will be reading the Wexford series out of order due to fact that our local library doesn't seem to have all the books available at the moment and so I will have to try and get it as I go to the library. Will definitely try to get the books... All of the series
Didnt see the twist at the end which is always a plus for a mystery book. Wish there had been more of Inspector Wexford and less of the Rev. Archery. The author's psychological explainations are somewhat heavy handed, just like in her other books I've read. Still, I'll read the next in the series.
It was a good read and a satisfactory conclusion. I rather lost my way as I was slow to get into it and, as a result, was unclear how characters related when I picked up the book again.
This is another Wexford, but a bit of a strange animal, because both he and Burden are secondary yet still very important characters.
I really enjoyed the first book in this series, however this one wasn't for me. I just couldn't get into the story at all. I may not continue with Wexford if the rest are similar to this book.
3.8
A very easy read, it felt very short - more like a novella than a book. Like to the old Agatha Christies, unlike the 900 page Jo Nesbos or Henjunf Mankells of today. A rather sad story, this one.
Weak sequel to her excellent first book and very dated
