https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/867837.Vampires_and_Vampirism
Oh Montague, you crack me up!
This man was such a loony, and that just makes his 'scholarly works' that much more entertaining to read.
He pursues his chosen subject (the occult) with a slavering religious fervor that just tickles me to death!
No matter whether it's this book about vampirism, or his other books on either witches (diabolism) or the werewolf, his theme remains the same: they were created by Satan to lead the devout into damnation!
The real kicker, what REALLY makes these books so much fun, is that he believes EVERYTHING that he's putting down on paper.
Great books on folklore written by a hilarious fundie!
I read this in an epic one-day research session for an essay.
I'm a very slow reader but I still managed to finish it (okay, I skipped the chapter on Assyrian vampires etc), so I guess that's a testament to how engaging it is.
Summers was obviously bonkers, chased into strong religious and superstitious belief by hell knows what, probably the fact that he was a massive gayist.
He gathers an astounding amount of folklore, myths, religious legends and stories into one book, all with the exciting twist that he actually uses them to prove that vampires really do/did exist.
Dozens of stories about premature burial?
The book itself was published in the late 20s, but it covers a wide scope of legends surrounding the Vampire that vividly contrast with what's taken for granted today: we learn of how the were-wolf, witches, and vampires myths were intertwined and sometimes even interchangeable in different regions of Europe and Asia.
Elsewhere there were Vampires who didn't drink blood but devoured their victims whole like were-wolfs, that were intangible like ghosts, that weren't hurt by sunlight, that didn't sleep in coffins, and could be killed with silver bullets.
I loved this. I'd probably have loved it more if I could read Latin and Greek--but even what's in English is informative and fascinating.(I enjoyed the discussion of how Catholic saints resemble vampires in most particulars--not something I'd considered before.)
Interesting Historical Point of ViewConsidering this book was written by Summers as an aid to help train novice vampire hunters in his life time, it is very interesting reading.
He goes through on how to identify victims, a large number of the many types of cultural vampires and how to identify and dispatch them.At the time he was actively researching his book, he was in fierce competition with another gentleman (a member of the clergy) as to who was correct.
Both men published several books on different supernatural topics.
Summers did two on vampires, one on werewolves and their like, along with a few more covering several other topics.
So it was somewhat interesting for the Halloween challenge to read about vampire lore before Buffy, Sookie and Bella.According to the introduction, Montague Summers was a "colorful" and "mysterious" figure; he may or may not have been, as he claimed, a Roman Catholic priest; he was an expert on Restoration drama, who edited standard editions of writers like Aphra Behn and Thomas Shadwell; but today he is best known for his books on Demons, Witches, Werewolves, and of course, Vampires -- all of which he believed in.
Interesting research on vampirism but it tends to lean a bit too much on the religious side.
I mean, I did expect some of that with the author's background and all but, damn, apparently you have to read a whole bunch of Saints' stories and all about exorcisms before understanding saints are holy people and not evil vampires.
I sorted my way through French and Latin but, well, there was no way for me to figure out Ancient Greek.I wanted to know more about ancient vampire lore so it served its purpose but I think that if that wasn't the case I would have been very bored with so much religious content.
This book does give some interesting information, however, it's written so scholarly that even the interesting information and stories seem boring.
What fascinated me the most about this book is that the author, Montague Summers, actually believed that vampires were real.
This man may have had a few screws loose.
The first half of the book was a struggle to get through; I admit, I skipped a few pages here and there to get to something that wouldn't put me to sleep.
The book has the same information as Summers' without the pages being leaden with bland, scholarly prose.
Being a rabid reader of most books vampiric, I came across this book and decided to give it a read.
Originally published in 1929, this is a study of vampire stories and beliefs around the world.
Montague Summers has covered pretty much all bases in the vampire field.
I particularly enjoyed the introduction to the author by Felix Morrow as it shed some light on the person who wrote this book (quite passionate, to say the least).
Summers writes almost fanatically about this subject -- very seriously for sure.
I'm quite curious as well now to read his other books on witches, demons and the like.
A bit of an endeavor to read this, hardly say it was worth it. Despite the incredible amount of legends, folk tails and stories he cited. His tendency to write in Latin often threw the whole narrative out of sink.His interpretation was rather enjoyable in parts though, and how he connected each folk tail, many many folk tails, together to create the argument that vampires are a real phenomenon, was very admirable. If only in that he wrote it with such zeal.Not a horrible read, but I wouldn't recommend for casual reading.
The biggest trouble I had with this edition of the book was my lack of understanding foreign languages. It is true that I can speak (and read) many languages but French, Latin and Greek just aren't in my repertoire. So it would be an immense help if somebody included the translation of all non-english text that were mostly citations from elsewhere instead of me having to read the book while sitting at the computer and having to resort to use google translate.
This is the most thorough history of the vampire I have ever read. This guy goes back to the dawn of time and traces the vampire through Eastern Europe and its incarnation as a literary figure. Here we have folklore and history combining. Here we have how a cautionary tale about not skimping on burial rights to avoid a revenant evolving into a literary trope about staying chaste. If you want to the history of one of the world's most famous monsters, read this.
An interesting general study of the vampiric myth, but Summers is not as clever or as good a writer as he thinks he is.
It would have been easier if it were not in 4 different languages.
Very detailed reference bookThe book is extremely detailed and you learn details of all things vampire. Awesome read .Would be great to have Halloween
This is a reprint of Summers' 1928 tome The Vampire: His Kith and Kin. It reads like a crazed parody of an academic textbook - it displays admirable scholarship and Summers has read far and wide; the material is backed by reams of citations and footnotes.
Yet in terms of its intellectual validity, it falls far short, with the author continually and groundlessly asserting that vampires are real, and that folklore is documentary.
This is Montague Summers‘ first book on Vampires, and as much as I love the author, I have to admit that this was a rather dry read. I actually started this book to make sure that I would understand references that I might have encountered in another book I’ve been reading; Varney the Vampyre. As it turns out, that book is referenced in this book, but it contains very few references to vampire lore...Full review here
