https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/487731.The_Secret_Door_to_Success
Most people give up just before The Big Thing will happen to them.
You attract the things you give a great deal of thought to.
Invest in your empire!Let your every thought and every act express your unwavering faith.
The Divine shall slay the negative enemy within thee, all the scriptures say.
We may not always control our thoughts, but we can control our words.
It takes eternal vigilance to check up on words and thoughts.
Change the quality of your words and thoughts.
People who live in the past have severed contact with the Wonderful Now. The Divine knows only The Now. 43.
She believes that maybe one of the reasons that you cannot find that secret door is because of the fences or walls that you've built around yourself(which limits your view).
This wall or fence can be "hating", "being uninterested in actions", "fear" and so on.
Using this book, we're able to identify these constraints and learn how to destroy them.
Therefore, we'll easily find the secret door and enter that to find all the success and happiness waiting for us.Don't miss this opportunity of learning about gaining success and happiness in your life.
I was at a retreat once where one of the people brought up this book several times in discussion. I bought a copy the next week. I highly recommend it.
I first started believing your thoughts and words could change your life for the better, when I watched a nature show, about a man who fell off a boat, and was stuck in the ocean overnight lost at sea.
He faced the dark, sharks, and the immense ocean.
Anyone who knows me knows how terrified of the ocean and sharks I am.
But this man didn't panic, even with faced with the most frightening of circumstances he kept saying he would be found safe, and he was.It's all about the way you think, it's about what you say to yourself.
It is one of useless books which tells you to imagine whatever you want, and think as if you already have it, and it will magically come to you! Some useless blah blah, do not waste your time and money, the author also tries to link this stupid idea with Christianity by giving very weird interpretations which do not play well with bible books' contexts where the verse exists. This book is one of many books which instead of pushing you to work for what you want, tells you to imagine and wait for the sky to rain Gold! Hilarious!
This book has so much wisdom, it's a pleasure to read ( like all of her books). Ms. Shinn was an early precurser to the field of law of attraction. The day I finished this book I won 50 bucks on a scratch off by following my hunches as she describes it. All of her books are wonderful and much better than the Secret. It was kind of amusing for her to say "it's not a secret at all....." almost in synchronous anticipation of that book....
Uno de mis libros favoritos, corto, de fácil lectura, muy motivador y concreto. Te ofrece una serie de decretos y recomendaciones para cambiar tu manera de pensar y atraer lo que deseas a tu vida. Cree y entonces todo es posible.
Very easy read, and simple to understand how spiritual law ties in with Law of attraction. She was definitely ahead of her time.
Think positiveI found this book to be very informative. It confirms all of the concepts of positive thinking and self-affirmation that I have learned throughout the years
Good readI'm happy that I read "the game of life" first. But, you can read this one first and not have a problem.
This was by far my favorite of the books from this author. I really like her style of writing and the powerful ways she uses her words. It makes you feel as if you can do anything.
'Neočekivano se događa, moje naizgled nemoguće dobro sada se pukim slučajem dešava.'Kada se za nešto moliš, veruj da to već imaš.
Kada se moliš, delaj kao da si to već primio.Nikada ne govorite o nemaštini i ograničenjima jer će vas 'vaše reči osuditi'.
Brinete se, strahujete i u agoniji ste.A ima i ljudi koji slede magični put intuicije i za tren oka se nađu u Obećanoj Zemlji.Intuicija je duhovna sposobnost koja visoko premašuje razložni um, a na tom putu je sve što želite ili vam treba...
molitva telefoniranje Bogu, a intuicija je kada Bog telefonira vama.Govorite što je moguće manje o svojim poslovima, a i tada jedino onima koji će vas ohrabriti i nadahnuti.
Not sure what to make of this. The author believes that you can obtain what you need and want not by asking God for it, but by repeating affirmations to yourself that assume God's good will and action on your behalf. For e.g. “I am grateful for blessings manifested and all those yet to be,” or “I am more than equal to this situation.” Supposedly it only works if you believe it and demonstrate that belief in concrete actions. The book is full of examples of people the author knew who got what they affirmed. Who knows?
This was better than "The Game of Life." It give you affirmations but loads up Biblical scripture. There are tons of verses referenced and its very supportive of a central premise on God. The book however is all amount manifestation and realization at a subconscious level. Thoughts become things. And the only obstacle to this happening, is your envy, hatred and vanity. Once you do this, you need to be on that same plane of thought.
"The Secret Door to Success" is basically a re-write of Shinnn's earlier book "The Game of Life." All of her writings are gems onto themselves and are good reminders of her gentle teachings. Shinn was one of those specially blessed individuals who helped show the way to a meaningful spiritual and prosperous life.
Loved this book the most out of the three I have read of Florence Scovel Shinn so far. The books are quite dated but still hold a positive message of being grateful and having gratitude. To expect wonderful things to happen in our lives and even miracles. Definitely a keeper to read over and over.
Love all her books!
great motivational book
Excellent book. Simply written (in a style of the earl 20th century). Wisdom for the ages.
I guess the door really isn't a secret anymore.
A continuity of the book The Game of Life. Another great book that is full of teaching of what faith really is and how to achieve your goals in life.Definitely a must read book for everybody.
