https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/113386.Maiden_Voyage
But it feels like something better, something more hopeful, that someone else did it too.
I feel like this too, this private/wish it didn't have to be that way and reading him feel like that felt better than if it was just me doing it.
Welch was as likely as I was to hold all of his hurts and slights to himself.
I'd feel better talking about Denton some more anyway so here it goes.Much of Maiden Voyage is about the art figures he likes to collect and hold.
I really loved it that he goes back alone to look at it again, maybe buy it.

More a record of a sensibility (detached but sensual) than a novel.
There is a boredom quotient in the dry attention to detail and lack of narrative tension, but Welch's probing confident thoroughly independent eye satisfies with a scattering of resolutely unique notes tinged with melancholy, morbidity, phantastical associations from immersion in the natural world and sundry foodstuffs."We unpacked our pork pies and began to eat.
They were very good but they had a flavour of grease-proof paper, and the water in our bottles was all churned up and warm.
It tasted of corks and rust and the dead old smell that lives in thermos flasks."
As far as personal accounts of Colonialist China from the British perspective, Denton Welsh's avatar here, a gay teen who just wants to paint and experience new things, is about as inoffensive as you could hope for. Still a strange to voyage into this severely patronizing and xenophobic system, but it's good that such a sensorially dense record exists.
This is a magical 'coming-of-age' story written in the voice of a sixteen-year-old narrator in the 1930s (I think) who travels to China to visit his father (who works for the British Embassy). Welch (who died very young) is frank about his nonheterosexual interest in men in ways that remain rare today, particularly when matched with his deceptively simple but beautiful prose. In a different world, this book would be as celebrated as something like The Catcher in the Rye.
Speaking in the first person and even named Denton, the protagonist's keen observations of people and places — relatives, strangers, sevants, rooms, gardens, streets — seem merely descriptive of appearance, but the reader soon realizes these details are artfully chosen to impart character and atmosphere, usually unpleasant and often oppressive.
Also, several encounters of Denton with various men are described with a thinly veiled undercurrent of homoeroticism, which only adds to the general repressive sensation of the novel.
As unpleasant as all this may sound, it makes for a fascinating character and an entertaining book, not unlike, and easily as good as, Patricia Highsmith's writing
In the early 1930s, effeminate teenager Denton Welch decided to take a train to an English cathedral city instead of going back to the school he hated.
He was eventually persuaded to go to school for one last term, and was then allowed to leave to join his father and older brother in Shanghai, where he enthused over the artworks and the fit bodies of soldiers and sailors.
A charming and often caustically witty book, this was written some years later when Welch had been disabled by a road accident that eventually caused his early death.
Denton Welch's first novel is good, although certainly not quite as strong as In Youth is Pleasure, his signature work.
More to the point, this book already demonstrates Welch's remarkable ability to convey a large amount of information with a small number of words.
It's a rare ability, and really shines in his short stories, but is on display even here in his first novel.This isn't quite the place to start for a reader that is new to Denton Welch, but once you get the bug for his magical fiction, this volume will certainly provide the fix that you'll be needing.
Considerando que “En La Juventud Está El Placer” narraba parte de la infancia de Denton Welch y que “Primer Viaje” parece proseguir con sus propias vivencias en una época adolescente, cualquiera podría dejarse llevar por un seductor canto de sirena que induzca a pensar que lo de este autor es pura autobiografía.
Y, por el otro, el universo masculino (rozando lo macho) se erige como un faro fascinante para su sexualidad, como ese baile de cabaret a las órdenes de un marine borracho en el que se palpa una dulce ambigüedad tan identificable con la confusión adolescente.Sin embargo, lo que acaba convirtiendo “Primer Viaje” en uno de los libros de viaje más interesante de la historia de este sub-género literario es, precisamente, lo poco que tiene de libro de viaje.
Well, I'm reading the actual book that I randomly purchased from Daedalus Books' mail order when I was...I don't know...maybe 14 years old...1984-5.
(a 1968 University of Texas Publication) I didn't think I ended up ever reading the book, but the photograph of Mr. Welch on the back cover sure made an impression.
And now I know for sure that I could have never read this book when I was 14 years old.
I was always looking for things as far away from domestic life as possible.
These days I quite love the English "flare," even down to the tedious things...but back then, no way.
I felt hopeless and very lonely; I longed for someone to talk to me but nobody did; they were all too busy looking at the sights or praying.Denton was sixteen -- but small enough and immature enough in appearance to still travel half fare -- when he decided he couldn't bear another year at Repton, a prestigious "public" school in Derbyshire.
Denton's adventures "on the road" and his ensuing term at Repton make up only the first quarter of Denton Welch's highly autobiographical novel Maiden Voyage, published in 1943.
William Burroughs made me reach for this book. It is lovely writing by a young man who looked hard at his life and found the words to say what he saw. His descriptions are beautiful.This bit from the blurb on goodreads is funny:'The book was Welch's first and created a sensation on publication in 1943; its frank description of public schoolboy life forced publisher Herbert Read to initially seek advice from libel lawyers. Even Winston Churchill's private secretary gossiped in a letter that, "the book was reeking with homosexuality? I think I must get it." '
although I'm reading a first edition (1943) one - one of those soft hardbacks with cheap paper due to economic restrictions of the war. Loevely illustrations on the inside covers and between book parts. £2 from amazon marketplace. And the novel - so far so good, really enjoying the posh boy running away from his private school and ending up visiting cathedrals. Read it now - yes enjoyable, but for me too many antiques and sweaty sailors/boys. Read more like a memoir than a novel. Probably three and a half stars..
I love Denton Welch to death; he's one of my favorite authors but I hadn't read this book before. I found it surprisingly tedious and hard to get through, although funny and charming in places. Denton writes about himself as a very sensitive, petty, impulsive young man who is pulled along by his love of sensual experience: beautiful china, the scent of a market, the feel of skin. It's a chaste, yet tensely sexual story. Nothing happens, but if you're a fan of stifled, British gay subtext you'll get a kick out of it.
Not a disagreeable read but one that feels it has very little point. The expression: "stuff happens" could be used to summarise the book which seems little more than a collection of small, mostly unrelated incidents without any apparent significance. Other than that he likes or dislikes things (usually very suddenly and for little apparent reason), we know very little of the "hero"'s inner life and motivations, which seems surprising considering the books is written in the first person.
If you've ever wanted to be taken on a tour of pre-WWII China by a 15-year old British sissy with a keen eye for antiques the the foibles of human nature, this is the book for you. Strange and wonderful.
Less visceral and more story driven than In Youth There is Pleasure, but no less beautiful. Stunningly insightful of human nature and individual character, Welch allows us to delight in the grotesque and divine.
The Pekin and Shanghai that Denton experiences are colonized places where the English live as arrogant sitters-upon, the Chinese servants are all called Boy, and Westerners who like "pretty things" are buying up antiques and objets d'art at a furious pace to ship them back to England.The charm of the book is in its teenage narrator's presentation of his emotions and judgments of other people as he moves through a series of small or momentous human situations -- dinner parties, a boating accident, a collecting trip in the provinces, encounters with English soldiers based nearby, with Chinese servants and the expats they serve.
Mary NarkiewiczI was drawn to this book because he was mentioned in the recent Barbara Pym biography I finished a week ago. She enjoyed his writing and I thought I read she was obsessed with it for awhile. He has a certain following ..inc. a group on Facebook.Once I began the book, I couldn't put it down. From a boy's school in England to the dark streets of China ..
I did like how he spent most of his time being bored hanging out with other English people
Intriguing and well written. The narrative becomes rather slow and pointless at times, but this is a book worth reading, especially for the descriptions of China in the 1940s.
The dry travelogue of a petulant teen. A pointless read in the end, lacking in any of the frankness noted by other reviewers.
Small British publisher Galley Beggar Press gratefully has re-released all three of them as affordable (if somewhat sloppily proofread) e-books and this is how Denton Welch ended up being more than a vaguely familiar name to me and became an author I have actually read – and, as it turned out, enjoyed rather a lot.Maiden Voyage is a comparatively slim novel and a rather strange one.
It’s so delightful to spend several hours inside his peculiar head, luxuriating in his exquisite, microscopic observations and roller-coaster emotions.
His father comes in from work, asks “What are these things?,” to which Denton replies, “I’m making sweet jars.” I can just imagine the father rolling his eyes, letting out a groan, and calling the servant to bring him a very strong drink.Welch always wrote about himself, and this book he doesn’t even bother disguising as a novel.
During the term his father, a successful Shanghai-based businessman, writes and suggests that Denton come out to China.
Denton Welch writes from the perspective of an aesthetic youth - a young boy taking in, innocently enough, the smells and sounds and sights of a foreign country.
This was Welch's first novel and recounts how he ran away from his school and was then sent to Shanghai to live with his father.
The protagonist's innocence and budding sexuality are expressed through subtle and beautiful prose - the awkward relationship with his classmates, his father - the observations of the appearance of a flower or river.
Welch wrote beautifully without having to scream overtly: "this is about a young boy realizing he's gay." It's aesthetic without being lewd and without being redundant.


Starts on despair and melancholy, floats into the dream-like, and ends on that shattering melancholic note again. This one is in the first person which makes it more real.As expected, there isn't a plot to be seen. The book works completely on keen observations of surroundings, and in such a way that gives insight in turn to Denton. I relate to him a lot, but I'm not sure why. He's just different and sensitive. I don't understand the reviews that mention homosexuality as a theme.I could read him all day.
Solid. Surprisingly limited observation of Shanghai and China, but more a review of colonial life than the city or its inhabitants. Whenever he seems on the brink of really digging into the underbelly of the city or a situation, he usually runs off back to colonial safety. The coming of age angle never really came together in this, but still an enjoyable book.
It's hard to say why I liked this so much. It has almost no plot, events simply unfold. But his descriptions of people and places and his joy in beautiful things and new things are so charming and endearing.
