https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/778878.Time_Must_Have_a_Stop
Eustace is a hedonist and sensualist, promising to teach Sebastian about life and love and buy him evening clothes!
Bruno Rontini, a friend of Eustace will teach Sebastian about the spiritual side of life.
Sebastian learns about life, loses his virginity, writes poetry, makes some mistakes; one of which (though simple and not too heinous) echoes through the years.
The descriptions of life after death are irritating and unconvincing and a bit nirvanaish, but the point is made.This novel for me is better than any of Huxley’s other work I have read.
No porque haya destrozado alguna imagen previa que tenía del autor o porque me haya parecido horroroso, sino porque es evidente que las cuatrocientas páginas que recorrí sin mucho convencimiento tienen un objetivo que colisiona con el mío: yo sólo quería leer una novela de aprendizaje ambientada en Italia, pre Segunda Guerra Mundial y en verano (porque me servía para un reto).
Sebastian es alguien que, desde mi punto de vista, se va desdibujando a medida que el narrador en tercera persona lo abandona para mostrar las acciones de los otros, que siempre incluyen una exposición de posturas intelectuales y políticas.
nobody who has any kind of creative imagination can possibly be anything but disappointed with real life.
people like you aren't really commensurable with the world they live in.
whereas people like me are completely adapted to it.' he removed the [cigar:] from between his large damp lips to take another sip of brandy.'your business isn't doing things,' he resumed.
'it isn't even living.
he was delighted by the thought.'of course,' eustace was saying, 'you could always argue that you live more intensely in your mental world-substitute than we who only wallow in the real thing and i'd be inclined to admit it.
In this novel, Huxley also tells a story that serves as a basis for the foundation of a philosophy of life.
Sebastian has to navigate his way through the two divergent views about evening clothes, and his own intense desire to possess them because he believes that they will give him access to a society that he feels excluded from.
There is still Huxley’s clever insertion of his own ideas into the narrative, in such a way that they do not interfere with the telling of the story.
"მთელ სამყაროში ერთადერთი,რაც შეგიძლია გამოასწორო, ეს მხოლოდ და მხოლოდ საკუთარი თავია. ყველაფერი იქიდან უნდა დაიწყო და სხვა ადამიანების გარემოებას უნდა მოეშვა. დანარჩენი ისედაც მოგვარდება, თუ პირად ამბებს მოაწესრიგებ. სანამ სიკეთეს ჩაიდენდე, ჯერ უნდა გახდე კეთილი"."ცოდნა ყოფნის პროპორციულია - ცოდნა ემყარება იმას თუ ვინ ხარ შენ? და ვინ ხარ შენ, ეს უკვე 3 ფაქტორზეა დამოკიდებული: რა გადმოგეცა მემკვიდრეობით, როგორ იმოქმედა გარემომ შენზე და როგორ გადაწყვიტე გარემო და მემკვიდრეობით გადმოცემული გამოიყენო"."ის ვინც უკეთესი არ ხდება, უარესი ხდება".ცოტა მშრალი სიუჟეტია,მაგრამ ბევრი კაი მონაკვეთია წიგნში.
De hecho para su protagonista resulta primordial el poder de la descripción, cómo se puede observar y aprender en cada instante lo que la vida le va ofreciendo.El papel de Bruno, el filósofo, destaca terriblemente por encima de casi todos los demás.
Bruno, así, se convierte en la conciencia a la que Sebastian aspira en cierto modo, pues siempre recurre a su sabiduría y a su saber estar para “ser”.De este modo, nos encontramos ante un libro de inmenso valor y tributo a la vida, al tiempo en el que nos hallamos inmersos.
Y, así mismo, recibimos del libro el máximo poder del intelecto para hacernos ver, percibir, lo que la vida es y puede ser.
Seriously one of the best books I've read in the last few years. It's a deceptive read in that the storyline is a facade for Huxley's philosophical messages. If you can get past the fact that it really isn't about a young man trying to procure formal evening wear, but instead a dialogue of morals, it becomes much easier to read and very enjoyable. Definitely worth finishing, and definitely worth reading again.
Sebastian is not a bad person, but he is young and scared, of his own doing and his own actions.
His priorities are not aligned with strong character, but yet he knows it and not able to get out of pitiful of his own actions.Bruno changes Sebastian's life.
Bruno pays the price for Sebastian's actions, but yet he continues to display the virtue and higher level of character that eventually helps Sebastian in the long run.
That man is Sebastian and his life has taken many terms, but he was able to learn humility from his experiences and from the man who stood by him through actions that others might have not supported, Bruno.
Huxley was deep into his mystical phase by the time he wrote this, 1945, and there’s a heavy didactic strain to the novel – while it starts as something of a social satire, by the ending it’s become pretty close to a straightforward essay, masquerading as the notebook of one of the characters. So it’s an excellent presentation of his views on religion and mysticism, though there’s no mention of psychedelics at this point, presumably he hadn’t yet begun his explorations there. And his biting sense of humor keeps it fairly entertaining as a novel.
The patient and inexorable reader might wade through the early few chapters and, though no Nirvana waits at the end of the endeavor, the reading experience will not prove to be completely futile, in my humble opinion, at least.This book must not be read for the fiction, the story, the character development.
Meh for you, Huxley!That said, I’m still open to reading Brave New World and I hope the next time I visit my library, I’ll find the right book.And of course, he reflected, resurrection is optional.
It's very much a story of Sebastian learning about life - from the point of view of his strict and socialist father, from the generosity of spirit of his uncle, from the experience he gains from Veronica, his uncle's mother-in-law's assistant companion, and Bruno, a friend of Eustace's he gets to know deeply after the death of his uncle.There are plenty of more sophisticated reviews of this book on Goodreads, so I shall leave it to those who can do an in depth review far more effectively.
I recommend this book if you want an engaging story told with a sense of poetry and fun, and if you want your view of life, and the afterlife, to be challenged with some fascinating insights.
This book is quite powerful; culminating, throughout all of Sebastian's learnings and goings-on, in the true essence of the results of actions. Through Bruno's teachings on the ancestors and descendants of an action, good or bad, and through the actual results of Sebastian's choices, what was seemingly trivial proved that nothing is truly trivial. Sebastian moved on from a "simple poet", albeit extremely gifted, to a true philosopher of his time, giving each action a thorough discourse of its existence. We should all aspire to put such deep thought into the everyday doings.
Huxley is now best known for his 'Brave New World' dystopia. And that is well. His other books are amusing, erudite fiction. Huxley, however had an abiding interest in arcane philosophies and 'Time Must Have a Stop' is one of his most interesting books. It is an attempt - imbued with Huxley's inevitable wit - to explore beyond death. An attempt that demonstrates insight and considerable philosophical inquiry. Highly recommended.
Guardo muy buen recuerdo de Un mundo feliz así que cuando vi este libro lo compré sin dudarlo, además me gustó el argumento, pero lo cierto es que me ha decepcionado bastante. No sé si es que he estado poco receptiva estas últimas semanas o es que hay bastantes párrafos farragosos pero me ha costado horrores terminarlo.
Beautifully written, this book is a wonderful display of Huxley's true command of the language. It is a refreshing thought provoker; a satire of the conventions of the world, as well as a relateable variation on the coming-of-age story.
I really tried to like this book. While I did think many parts/quotes were clever, I found the oveall book to be too verbose.
The novel - a bourgeois 19th-20thC form of prose fiction centred on the individual - gives way to something more cosmic; the individual perspective is dissolved.
Huxley is one of the great comprehensive, syncretistic thinkers of the 20thC, and breaks boundaries not only in a progressive sense but in a lateral sense, opening up a wider scope for the inclusion of diverse intellectual disciplines within the novel form.I must read The Perennial Philosophy, which I gather is basically the non-fiction equivalent to this, or vice versa - not sure which is better to start with though?

El personaje es sencillo, pero sus apuntes, situados en el capítulo 30, son para mí lo que corresponde el verdadero review de la obra, ya que se puede leer a lujo de detalle todas las aseveraciones, sentencias y aforismos producto del análisis del medio histórico que rodea y provoca curiosidad al personaje.
Podría parecer pomposa, pero es que a decir verdad, es una obra con tanta crítica especializada, que puede llegar a abofetearte por su gran contenido analítico.La quintaesencia de las obras de Huxley.
Time Must Have a Stop is breathtaking not only for the brilliance of Huxley's writing but for its exposition of the contradictions of 20th century political philosophy.Written during the closing year of World War 2 and published in 1945, 'Time Must Have A Stop' is brutal examination of the various philosophies of Humanism, Liberalism, Socialism and Communism.
Most importantly, in Time Must Have a Stop, Huxley was and remains light years ahead of contemporary Post-Modernist discourse and critical theory.
More than any other book in the entire canon of Modernist literature, 'Time Must Have a Stop' refutes and blows to bits all the vulgarities and perversions of Postmodernist ideology.
გული მისკდებოდა ეს წიგნი, რომ ავიღე ხელში. ჰაქსლი ჩემი უსაყვარლესი წიგნის ავტორია და მის სხვა ნოველებსაც ძლიერ ვაფასებ, მაგრამ ამ წიგნის ანოტაციიდან გამომდინარე ძალზედ სკეპტიკურად ვიყავი განწყობილი. მიხარია, რომ შევცდი და ძლიერ... საშუალება, რომ მქონდეს 10 ვარსკვლავსაც დავუწერდი. ერთ-ერთი საუკეთესო წიგნია ადამიანების ემოციებზე, რწმენებზე და ქცევებზე, იმაზე თუ როგორი უბედური შეიძლება იყოს ბედს შეგუებული ადამიანი და რამდენად რთულია ინდივიდისთვის უარი თქვას თავის იდეოლოგიაზე... ყველამ უნდა წაიკითხოს ეს რომანი და მიხვდეს, რომ ერთისთვის 6 შეიძლება 9 იყოს...
My expectations were low based on past reviews. I liked it! It’s very wordy which meant I was using the dictionary often. That’s not really a bad thing. I learned a lot. The story was pretty good and had unexpected turns. Chapter XXX or The Epilogue was in a nutshell the author’s beliefs expressed through the main character. That was fine since I’m interested in it but seemed as though it didn’t fit well with the rest. All in all I’m glad I read it. Enjoyed it more than his other books I’ve read, Brave New World and Island.
I really enjoyed the intermingling of philosophical discussion and a strong narrative. Aldous does a really great job meshing these two genres into a cohesive novel. I am a fan of most of Aldous Huxley's work, and this book definitely does not disappoint.
The plot is believable and charming though not compelling. The tail-end is presumably a delve into Huxley's personal philosophy, which I found interesting and would have read on its own.
Being an American, I couldn't understand it. Maybe someone born in that F****** town could explain it to me?
Es un libro interesante, buenas citas y buenas reflexiones, siempre desde la perspectiva mística bien conocida de Huxley, sin embargo me pareció de una prosa muy rebuscada e intelectual.
While his last major novel, 'Eyeless In Gaza', if we are to jump frog 'After a many Summer', left the protagonist at the edge of this spiritual exploration, this book jumps right in with the first ever after death account of "the light" I've ever read in a book.
Well written, great fun in fact, but in order to understand it as more than mere point of View, to understand it as the Hero of the book, Bruno would have, one would have to extend oneself to read Huxley's next work, the 'Perennial Philosophy'.
"Pero el pensamiento es esclavo de la vida, y la vida, bufón del tiempo;Y el tiempo, que domina el mundo entero,Debe detenerse".Una novela central en la trayectoria de Huxley en donde expone alguna de sus preocupaciones espirituales y su profundo conocimiento de las filosofías orientales y el misticismo.Imprescindible.
Time to re-read and re-assess
This isn't helped by the fact that his entire family and most of his surrounding acquaintances are both unlikeable and immoral, filling his susceptible teenage mind with all sorts of contrasting ideas and political viewpoints - but frankly, all Sebastian really seems to care about is two things: sex (he's at that age, you know) and obtaining some evening wear, of which has been forbidden by his stingy, philanthropic father.You see, Sebastian has been invited to a party, and at this party there will be girls, and Sebastian likes girls - if only to serve as fodder for his fantasies; but Sebastian is too proud to attend this event without some decent evening clothes.
