https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5212771-carpe-corpus
Soooo I finished this one way before Carve the Mark, but haven't had a chance to type out the quotes yet-But, even if the quotes don't represent it very well, this book is my ABSOLUTE FAVORITE BY FAR!!!!  And, if I gave you every single swoony quote, there'd be no point in reading, right?! So...here you go. :P Shane stood up when he saw her, which made her heart turn cartwheels, and he pulled out her chair. Eve and Michael shared an amused look. “So cute,” Eve said. When Shane glared, she smiled
Shane stood up when he saw her, which made her heart turn cartwheels, and he pulled out her chair.
“So cute,” Eve said.
When Shane glared, she smiled.
“I’m a vampire.
I have secret powers,” he said with a full-on fake Transylvanian accent, which he dropped to say, “Actually, your mom let me in.” “Seriously?
“Moms like me.”
“That doesn’t explain why she bit me!” Claire said.
“I’m just afraid.
“Does he ask—” “Shane asks about you every day,” Richard said very quietly.
“Every single day.
Her loyal friends, Shane, Michael and Eve are never far out of reach and as with the other books, they ban together to keep each other safe from those trying to destroy Morganville and its inhabitant.I loved the Claire and Shane moments and all I have to say about page 121 is FINALLY!
Great character!Overall, great addition to this series and I can’t wait to continue to read how this story shifts.
I just hope Claire, Eve, Shane and Michael continue to be major characters in this series.
Wooo Hooo!
This series is so different from all the other vampire books I have read.
Sure they tap into the same well at one point or another, but the creative plots and the action packed, fast-paced story takes you into a whole other level.
You can't but help falling in love with this series.
(And Shane and Michael of course)I have to say that I have waited for page 120 & 121 patiently and I was totally giddy!
Now, don't fast forward to that, you must wait your turn....The chemistry between the characters has evolved (wink, wink)and grown stronger.
Review on later date.... Maybe.
I always enjoy the atmosphere and mood Morganville books create, so Carpe Corpus gets a decent rating for that alone.
I went into this series (a bit late than most) under the impression that there are a few different story arcs within it.
The story seemed to resolve itself so quickly that I was left feeling like I missed something.
What I did like about this novel in particular was the stellar character dynamics and relationship progressions.
I’m definitely still looking forward to continuing the series because reading each one feels like coming home, but overall Carpe Corpus didn’t make much of an impression.Via The Obsessive Bookseller at www.NikiHawkes.com
So get ready for some good rambling.Carpe Corpus, or as my good friend Google likes to call it, “seize the body” (weird, huh?) is a fancy schmancy way of playing with the old “Carpe Diem” (seize the day) gig as an analogy to Bishop being a bitch and Claire and Shane having some business time.
Claire is getting more badass with each passing book, Eve is awesome as always and we have more explanations for the “magical” portals and such.
And what the hell was that ending?
But this one (view spoiler)[did not end in a cliffhanger (hide spoiler)].What the hell??!Need to read MOAR!!Review also posted on
Something scary, something sweet, something sad, something that rhymes with sad.That sums up the 6th of the Morganville books.Is it me, or did it feel like a last book in the series?
There's a big bad villain, a feeling of disrepair, allies where you least expect them, enemies where you sure as hell expect them, a couple of nail biting moments, them parents that have no reason of being in this series whatsoever, and an epic battle where you have no idea who's on whose side.As for the gang?
This was an okay story, but it was pretty dull compared to book 5.Claire once again came across as naïve in this book, even though she seemed to have grown a little more mature in the last book.
Has she learned nothing?The storyline in this book was just so dull compared to the constant action of book 5.
There was some romance, and even some news on the whole ‘will-they-ever-do-it?’ front.The ending was a bit predictable in places, and didn’t exactly make me want to read the next one quickly.Overall; bit of a dull one,6 out of 10.
Quick review:Cover: It’s okay Rating:  PG-17 Thumbs Up:  4Overall: On par with the rest of the series.Characters: Well thought out.Plot: Wrapping up some series questions and beginning anew with others.Page Turner: Yes Series Cont.?
Yes Recommend:  Sure Book Boyfriend: Sam/MyrninSUMMARY (60 words or less)What can I say about this book, finally.
And I’ll leave that at that.
For those of you that have read, you know what I’m referring too.
I’m glad that we are done with this plot line.
I’m ready to move on to something new and fresh.
Looking forward to see where the author goes with this one.
3.9 starsI've actually really liked this series so far, but for this book I need to point out some 'down sides'.
Claire does some rather stupid things/ acts kinda stupid in the last half of the book.
She's suppose to be really smart but she can't see what's going / happening around her even though I'm sure that pretty much anyone reading the book can and did figure out just about everything that is happening and is about to happen long before it does.
Come on Claire!
Brighten up!If I hadn't been so tired while reading this one (I read it instead of sleeping, lol) I would have been yelling at Claire and rolling my eyes so many times they'd hurt, lol.
The sixth book of the Morganville Vampire series, again picking up right where the story left off in the last book.
This entire series just seems to be one long continuous book really, so many different things intertwined into each addition.
A few things will finish with each book but others are always left up in the air.
I've become hooked on finding out where the entire thing is going to lead and how Morganville will end up.
Never quite know what to expect and where the story will go from book to book.
He had a name, a history, maybe even people who cared what happened to him.'My name is none of your business,' he said, and continued to stare out the window, even though there was nothing but blurry brick out there.'Can I call you None for short?” WOW!
Endless roller coaster ride of falling in and out of like with these two characters.Now for some spoilers:(view spoiler)[Okay so I really want Bishop to die.
I feel like I have a very unhealthy obsession about him dying...this concerns me.Then there's Claire, Eve, Michael, and Shane doing crazy shit throughout the book.
Charlaine Harris' Dead and Gone came close, but this one I physically had to use one hand to remove the book from the other hand and place it down.
Then I used one hand to grab the other wrist to prevent me from picking it up.OMG was this book beyond amazing.
The next Weather Warden is out in August.If you haven't read Morganville Vamp series, go.
Stop what you are doing and read.
They are short books and technically YA, but go read.Whenever I am asked for YA recommendations this is one of the series I recommend.
Go read.
I hate that Claire has to team up with Bishop on this one.
I hate what Shane is dealing with.
Michael kinda pisses me off a little in this one when it comes to Bishop but he redeems himself because afterall he is Michael.
Claire has really came a long way from stumbling upon the house in the beginning to now she takes no shit from nobody - maybe Shane is wearing off on her some more.
Bishop is such a dick - I seriously cannot stand him.
If I could give this book 10 stars I would. Definitely my favourite in the series and not just because of Shane and Claire (but I did read that part twice) but because of all the action, twist and turns, suspense and witty characters that you can't help but love. Adore this series and will be sad when it ends.
A very worthy and satisfying climax novel for the current chain of events happening in Morganville.As climax novels are supposed to do, "Carpe Corpus" brought a lot of things to a head, weaving all kinds of suspenseful and long-awaited moments into the plot.
I don't want to spoil, but there are big things happening in terms of death (I was very saddened by the death at the end), relationships (finally *wink*), and struggles for the freedom of Morganville.
This particular conflict may have ended here, but I can't wait to see what else Caine has in store for Morganville in her next novels.
Book 6 in the Morganville Vampires series, and I must admit I'm getting pretty bored.For a supposed genius the main character Claire Danvers can be pretty stupid at times.
Unlike some of the other Morganville books I found myself in a rush to finish this one, so that I could move onto something a bit more fun.In this installment we see the showdown between the evil Mr Bishop and the native vampires of Morganville.
Bishop makes for a pretty one dimensional character, whose motivations are not really fully explored or convincing.
It's not that this is particularly bad, it's just pretty pedestrian.
This and my other reviews can be found at http://amethystbookwyrm.blogspot.co.uk/Amelie is nowhere to be seen and Bishop is now in charge, with Shane and his dad in prison, and Eve angry at both Claire and Michael, who are Bishop’s slaves, it is up to Myrnin to save them and Morganville.
This is the first book in the series to not start straight after the last; it starts a few months after.
This book changes everything in this series especially Claire and Shane’s relationship.
I would recommend this series to people who like Twilight or Vampire Academy.
I'm really enjoying this series. This is the first series besides Harry Potter that I've stuck with so long - 6 books is a record for me because I usually get bored with series books that go past 4 or 5 (maybe that's why I've been only writing 3 books in my series ;)If you haven't had a chance to read this series, I suggest you do - start with Glass House and be prepared to be hooked :)
Another great installment of Morganville. Actually, this is probably my favorite one so far. I was surprised at each twist & turn the book took. And I may or may not have cried at one point. I can't wait to read the next one... And I'm not going to. I already started it. lol :)
My favorite of the Morganville Vampire books so far...if only because there's finally some Shane action in it!
Another great book in the series! Loved the character development and the more thorough introduction to Ada. Not as much action as the last book, which was nice. Love the Morganville vampires.
The characters, the plot, the heartbreak, the action..
This book wasn't as action packed as the rest, but I feel that it did fill in a lot of blanks and kind of connect everything together.
Myrrnin continues to be one of my favorite characters, with his mysterious motives (which I started to trust), and the fate of Morganville at stake (hehe, stake!).
My heart ached for friends and family of said character, and I really never thought it would happen.Overall, I liked this book, and will continue with the series!
Thanks Caine, for another amazing Morganville novel.
Possibly my least favorite in the series so far, yet I still think we found some interesting reveals in this book, too.
(Because why use electricity when you can use blood?) The computer is inhabited by the consciousness of one of his former assistants he accidentally killed.As punishment for an attempt to break Shane out of jail, Bishop turns his father into a vampire, the thing he hates most.
So good for them and Rachel Caine.By the end of the book, Morganville has been restored, Bishop was defeated, and the vampires were all cured.
It's the dawn of a new era of vampire and human equality.This book also felt like it could have been the end of the series, but it didn't bother me nearly as much as Vicki Pettersson's City of Souls.
10/17/15: Rereading!!!A lot has changed in Claire's life since the end of Lord of Misrule.
She's now Bishop's errand girl, and is magically bound to do as he says, thanks to Myrnin's betrayal.
Even little Claire starts talking back and standing up for herself this time around.
Not only is there the climax to Bishops plot to overtake the town, but we get a lot more insight into that vampire disease: it's possible origin and cure!
Myrnin also introduces us to a bizarre new character who plays a major role in the inner workings of Morganville.
Claire and Shane's relationship!
Cel puțin în acest volum, totul s-a încheiat cu bine, asta e tot ce pot spune.
De fapt, lucrurile n-au mai mers niciodată așa de bine în Morganville.
Cartea a fost dark dar cel mai mult a fost surprinzătoare.
Mi-a plăcut extrem de mult cum a ales autoarea să dezvolte lucrurile, să lărgească orizonturile și să mărească posibilitățile pentru viitoarele volume.
Ador partea legată de știință, mi se pare un element unic pentru acest gen de carte; Myrnin și Oliver sunt favoriții mei.
Mi-a plăcut că am văzut multe elemente realiste, logice.
even tho i dnt love him like i love Shane- its different- but i still totally adore him!!
it was so sad :'(stupid Bishop, i was like 'holy crap he is indestructable' after he got the poison and then he got thru Michael and went after Shane..
and im sooo glad he gave Bishop his blood- the one with the disease =Di cant believe Claire's dad didnt kill her- but he saved her from himself, AND again from Dean- omg i knew it was Dean!!!- and he told her to tell Shane he still loves him, awwwand Claire and Shane..
I know when I pick up one of these books that I can't have anything important to do because once I start I'm not going to stop until I'm done!
I love how Claire gets stronger and stronger, she has really learned how to hold her own.
I loved the addition of Ada the computer type machine that took Mrynin 300 years to build.
Of course I'm still loving Shane and Claire together.
I'll be picking up book seven just as soon as I can clear a day to read uninterrupted.If you haven't read The Morganiville Vampires then what are you waiting for?
It takes you on a ride from fear and betrayal to understanding and acceptance and then of course the dreaded cliffhanger at the end.The vampire war comes to a climax in this edition and we get to see which side will be triumphant.
Each relationship being different, but somehow making this tightknit and unique group of friends who would do anything for one another.
It's rare to find that kind of friends and it's very satisfying to read about them.I will continue to read the Morganville Vampire books and I definitely recommend them for fans of the genre.
