https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22749539-echo
b)That makes you mourn when you say goodbye to its characters.
While some students may be afraid of its size, I would encourage them to look at it as 4 books within one...woven with a common thread...or a common sound.
:) As a teacher/librarian, I want to conquer the obstacles that my students will have when they think Echo will take them too much time to read.
What a great conversation that will be!If only there was time in the school day to collaborate with our music teacher and create our own band of Harmonica Wizards!
Tales about the Holocaust, two orphans and an orphanage, segregation, and a Japanese Internment camp,A magical harmonica ties these stories together.....( especially at the end) .....But no matter what I write about this book , the plot, the characters....( 2016 Newbery Honor), ...masterfully written for all ages by Pam Munoz Ryan...."Echo" is about music....I can't imagine that 'reading' this book could compare to the AUDIOBOOK EXPERIENCE.
LISTENING to the orchestra is **harmonious**....and the storytelling is wonderful.HIGHLY -recommend for audiobook fansFEEL GOOD......MAGICAL....SUSPENSE.....WARMTH....FRIENDSHIPS....HEART....Listen when walking, folding laundry, resting in a sauna, cutting veggies during dinner prep, or close your eyes lying on the couch....and feel the vibrations!
One might say that these stories are not free of some kind of simplistic resolution (and I agree), but in my opinion the novel's worth lies elsewhere : in the heartwarming and hopeful messages that music can bring people together and that we all can find the place where we belong, no matter how different we think we are, no matter how intolerant our contemporaries are being, no matter how idiotic and selfish people can be.
As much as I love my Dark Fantasy novels, as much as I complain about the stupid and intolerant comments I see every day on the social medias, there's a part of me that needs to believe.
In each of their solo stories, Friedrich, Mike, and Ivy are in possession of the same rare harmonica, leaning on music to get them through the hard times.Myriad themes are explored in this book, but the thread that ties everything together is music.
Music surpasses all distinctions between people." Gershwin heard music in the midst of noise, and saw the piece as an array of all that was American: a composition of people of every color, rich or poor, quiet and loud, a mishmash of humanity.Some of the darkest moments in history are explored in Echo, introducing young readers to the subtle ways in which people succumb to malevolence, forgoing their freedoms and losing their humanity: "Their hearts hurt.
Sometimes you gotta work hard to find it."  So I read this book based on work recommendations from fellow librarians.
This book is something else, and I feel all ages could read it.Echo tells 3 main stories: Friedrich, Mike and Ivy. All are children of preteen age, they all live in different times, places and circumstances.
We get to read each one of their stories separately, and the power of music is what connects their stories in ways you wouldn't have guessed.
I have also had people tell me and read reviews on here where people have said to listen to the audiobook.
I heard about this book from my daughter, who heard about it from her friend who read it 3 times within 10 days.
This is a beautiful story which centers around music and a special harmonica.
The music unites the stories of 3 protagonists, children that lived during the WWII era.
Through 3 different stories and 3 pieces of music (Brahm's Lullaby, Auld Lang Syne, America the Beautiful) we are shown how prejudice, focusing on far-right nationalism, race and ethnicity dissects and seperates; and music as a supreme language unites.
The harmonica substituting as a breast plate in tough times and adding polyphonic texture to life is beautiful use of symbolism.
Don’t read this book.Listen to it.It would be positively criminal to read a print copy of Echo when such a stunning audio version exists.
Before anything else, Echo is a book about music.
There are actually four strands to the plot, told one at a time until the very end, when they come together in a beautiful (dare I say harmonious?) way.
That’s the beauty of middle grade literature; you can start with a humble harmonica and end up with a symphony.
This is my feel-good book of the year.
Listen to it in the car with the whole family next time you go on a road trip.
#wow -- this one word could be my review for this enchanting novel, as I truly don't have any words to tell the world what an amazing experience this book has been.
Just Incredible!I can feel a quaver inside me, when I think of that moment when I almost decided not to read this book.
This book can best be described as "joyful" reading, right from the first word.
They repeated the words "Your fate is not yet sealed, even in the darkest night a star will shine, a bell will chime, a path will be revealed...
The first 3 introduce you to three different characters who are all connected by one simple harmonica, a harmonica that will bring them joy when life will seem bleak, a harmonica that has a magical background story and a harmonica that has a purpose.Friedrich lives in pre World War II Germany, in a world where he gets to slowly experience Hitler's rise to power.
It’s heartbreaking to read about all these injustices and it’s even more heartbreaking to know what might happen to Friedrich if they don’t leave Germany.
They show us that not all is lost even when things look like they are never going to get better.This book is so important and so beautiful and I don’t know what else to say except that you all need to read this.
Read twice. Still pondering it. The writing is lovely and the characters are memorable.
*clears throat* Y'all need to read this book.
And when I say you need to read it, I mean you need to read it TODAY.
I MEAN .
It's beautiful and magical and gorgeous and achingly deep and heart-wrenchingly suspenseful and just SO SO SO GOOD.
The triumphs and the tragedies and the cliffhangers almost killed me .
(In a good way, though.
IT NEEDS TO BE ON EVERY BESTSELLER LIST IN THE NATION EVER.
It's just that good.
(I NEEDED CLOSURE, PEOPLE.
CLIFFHANGERS.
They need to be a thing.
(hide spoiler)]
585 pages of historical fiction magic! I started this one on the eve of a second snow day in a row (of snow days I am NOT a fan) and actually woke up the next morning wishing for snow day #3 so I could continue reading! Now that, folks, is a HIGH recommendation! I loved the way Ryan wove three stories together across a tapestry of music, sprinkling a dust of magic from beginning to end. I support independent bookstores. You can use this link to find one near you or order ECHO on IndieBound: http://www.indiebound.org/book/978043...
There are three historical storylines bound together by a magical harmonica that is the key to releasing three princesses from a curse.
Ryan brings it all together in a flash forward at the end, but it feels forced and has a lot of info-dumps so had a rather clumsy feel to it.Then there's the magical harmonica/cursed princess frame for the story which did not work for me AT ALL.
I would have preferred it if the stories had just been tied together by a non-magical harmonica without this frame.
The frame really ruined the book for me and seemed pointless.
Pitch-perfect character voices, conflict arrangements that hit all the right emotional notes, and a well-composed plot all make this gigantic book SING.
(All music puns very much intended.) Overall, it’s about kids who become heroes in quiet, ordinary situations by choosing to do the right thing.
Also featuring: FAMILY, music, harmonicas, war, history, family...
If you decide to try it, the main thing to watch is the author’s use of POV.
NEGATIVE STUFF: A TINY bit of (very confusing) magic, a few interesting spiritual remarks about music, and a couple nods to fate/destiny as the orchestrator of the story’s events (SIIIGH).
But other than that, it’s completely clean!
Wow...you know the magic you felt the first time you read Harry Potter?
Yeah, that.I felt that as I read this book - it's hefty and complex and there are multiple storylines - but, it is SO worth the investment of your time and energy!
The genre here is blurry - fantasy, fairy tale, historical fiction, multicultural - what exactly is happening?
There is this magical element that is all about the POWER OF MUSIC and that sustained my interest.
Ryan is a master storyteller.
This book is so adorable and I loved all of the characters.
This book covers a series of important topics and events in history, and I loved the fact the children will be reading this and learning about those times.
My biggest complaint was where each story cut off.
This book follows three different storylines and I found that where the stories would jump to the next was very annoying.
Luckily, I loved each and every character so I begrudgingly let it go (kind of..
Either way, this book is adorable and great.
This was a beautifully written, clear yet complex, magical novel with a structure I really disliked.I think the best way to describe that structure is that the story is a frame tale, going from completely magical to our world, in which we meet, one after the other, three sets of characters over about twenty years: Friedrich in Germany at the rise of Hitler (the impact on ordinary citizens evoked powerfully, and true to all my reading, yet done in a way a ten year old reader could grasp); Michael and his brother Frankie a few years later, orphans in tough times; and finally Ivy, during World War II, when American citizens with Japanese heritage were regarded with suspicion and even hatred.
I’m so thankful that this is my last book of the year. It’s a story set in darkness but full of hope. If I had to make any comparisons, I’d say it’s like The Book Thief meets Coco meets Pans Labyrinth. Also, I implore you, read via the audiobook. The music played really adds to the story, and the narrators are brilliant.
So engrossing and lovely, a book that starts as a fairytale and evolves into an exploration of some of our darkest points in history, it is marvelous. The best book I've read in a while.
Echo has a musical accompaniment that brings the story to life.Concerning narrative, Echo follows three separate children during 1930s / 1940s, leading up to their future concert at Carniege Hall.
The first story follows Friedrich, a young boy in Hilter's Germany.
The next story follows Mike, a young boy in Pennsylvania.
The final story is Ivy, a young girl in California.
You see, each of the characters will play this harmonica, and it will bring them hope in times of despair.Of course, there were a few plot holes, but I found this book to be compelling.
A great audiobook experience.
When I received this book as an arc, I was so very excited.
However, I was hoping for a way better ending than that.
My arc says that this book's audience is grades 5-9.
Some kids just really like to read and it may peak their interest.
We just read a 600 page book...the reward of a well written ending would have been fabulous.
I wish I could go into detail as to WHY I didn't care for the ending, but there is no way to do that without revealing too much.
Superb.
This middle grade novel tells four stories that are all interwoven and connected through one harmonica.
It's squeaky clean, age appropriate, and brilliantly written.
The writing is crisp and has strong, historical details pertaining to the years during the rise of Hitler, the Great Depression, and one year after the bombing of Pearl Harbor.
I would recommend this for fourth graders on up to 100 year olds, especially to those who enjoy a story that holds a musical theme to the plot.
Also, I would highly recommend the audio book.
Not only were all the readers wonderful, music was played when music was created by the characters.
Because Echo revolves around the magic of music, hearing the pieces that Ryan describes adds an extra emotional element to the narrative that reading alone cannot fulfill.
Because the presence of the music in the audiobook was so integral to the listening experience, there was actually a moment toward the end of the book when the absence of music detracted from the narrative and made it feel like something was missing.
There is an emotional element to this story that I find most historical fiction, no matter how compelling, often lacks.
WOW. Wow, wow, wow. The audio production is a FEAST for the ears. Such memorable characters in this captivating story.
It will be interesting to see how young readers take to this ambitious book.
The book starts and ends with a fairy tale, but the bulk of it is divided into three main stories, all linked by a harmonica.The first story is like a young readers' version of The Book Thief.
Nazis have little use for "physical deficiencies" and Friedrich's eccentricities (he conducts to music in his head) don't help.
And like Friedrich, Mike is a whiz on the harmonica.
"(...) não importa quanta tristeza haja na vida, há quantidades iguais de 'talvez as coisas melhorem
Fabulous book, recommend for ages 10 and up. It would help with the story lines if your child had some knowledge of WWII and Pearl Harbor. Enough real life mixed with magical folktales to make this a great book. I read and listened to this book. The audio definitely adds some more depth to the musical piece of the book.
One of the most beautiful stories I've ever read. One of a kind book...
Recommended by my 17 year old niece to be read this year in our "family bookclub," I didn't know anything about this book so went into it with zero expectations.
I have to say, I was most pleasantly surprised.
Echo is a genre-crossing book that is truly hard to describe.
Somewhat of a historical fiction/fantasy, there are several stories in one.
The underlying thread for me was HOPE.
It's a very satisfying novel!
I can see why this won the Newberry medal in 2016.It's listed as a juvenile fiction novel, but can be enjoyed by all ages.
