https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/96471.Earth
I am glad I persevered because the second half of the book makes it all worthwhile.Set in 2038 (written in 1990) the basic plot of Earth is about a man-made tiny little black hole that is accidentally dropped into the Earth and begins to devour the planet from the inside atom by atom; left unchecked there would eventually be nothing left of our planet.
More often than not my eyes start to glaze over when I read the exposition passages, but in all fairness to Brin I think he explains the science better than most sci-fi writers that I have read, unfortunately, there is just a little too much of it here for me.
It’s a sci-fi thriller and reading only 20-30 pages per day really stretched out the action in a non-thrilling way.It is also a little heavy on the hard science fiction side of things for my tastes—remember, I am primarily a fantasy reader!
Give me people issues!One thing that I have to really credit this author for, he produces great swear words for his future characters.
It’s an interesting look at what the near future could look like and an action packed plot to keep you reading.
I liked it, but I like his Uplift series more I confess.Book number 279 in my Science Fiction and Fantasy reading project.
Since it is set closer to the present day—2038, a mere fifty years in the future from the time Brin was writing—it also has much in common with the hard SF thrillers written by authors like Ben Bova and Greg Bear.
The antagonists are authoritarian or anarchical in their allegiances, out to preserve the old order or tear it down at all costs, with both sides looking to the latest and greatest in scientific discoveries to give them the edge.So to distinguish it from other such books, Brin sets Earth in a near future where global warming has occurred slightly faster than most scientists have predicted.
Great novel, well deserving of the 1991 Hugo, though it lost to Bujold's The Vor Game.
All of these are great SF and I'd be hard pressed to chose among them.
Noble laureate Alex and his many cronies have to figure out how to save us all using hard science, Maori mysticism, primate social behavior and much more, anything that helps or gives clues to a solution.The plot is complex, the science believable even today 23 years later, perhaps even a bit more believable.
I shelved it under EcoFiction as well as SF since the Gaea theory and a likely state of the Earth's ecosystem and climate 50 years hence.Brin is fascinating.
This dates the book occasionally, but, as with all aging science fiction, it's interesting to see what the author was and wasn't able to predict about our present.
When it comes to spirit, Earth is pretty much all "head" and no "heart."Brin is a scientist himself—according to his website, he's even cowritten "NASA-funded studies with California Space Institute, regarding robotics & space station design" (so, like, wow)—and like many scientists who dabble in fiction, he journeys into the hard sci-fi genre, attempting to create plots that are theoretically possible, even if improbable.

This was the second time I read this book, and I liked it better this round.It's fast-paced action with a strong ecological message. Although it was published pre-internet (1990), it anticipates much of the immediacy of instant communications. Unfortunately, the situation with the environment hasn't gotten better, and we'll have to face many of the challenges this book portrays.I especially liked the author's explanation of the assumptions he made and the points he exaggerated. He's a great storyteller.
This book is a treasure. It drastically changed my worldview and made me come to see the urgency of some of the issues facing our generation. One of Brin's concepts has actually become a major piece of my belief system. Besides all of this serious stuff....this is a damn fun book to read that you will not put down until you are finished!
Reread.
But kind of exhausting.
Too many ideas and in the end kind of fell over.
But it had some details that stayed with me me for years.
Looking for a rock in Kansas.
Editing 80s sf movies to be 15 minutes long.
The gnomes of zurich kind of.
A black hole at the center of the Earth?
And using Shuttle Down as a detail.
The details were just thin enough that it still worked in 2018 which is remarkable for something published only a year or so after www was invented.
But it did have a real ending.
This is a long book that is rich with ideas and concepts. It's set about fifty years into the future from 1990 and you can already see a number of his predictions come true. It's not a page turner. The pace is slow, leisurely. It's a thoughtful book. It took me a long time to read it because I typically didn't read more than a few pages at a time. I also frequently remarked on passages to my wife because Brin's ideas on things seem to match mine pretty well.
Author David Brin just posted a link to a video where he does a reading from Earth.
Brilliant, fun, and much better than those origins of earth and the universe films you remember from old time Science Museum FieldTrips or the day when your science teacher couldn't bear lecturing and qued up a movie after fooling around with the canister and projector, etc.
The way this book prefigures the internet and communication via social media and messaging is practically omniscient and a little bit spooky!
-I have read Earth quite a few times.
Brin's portrayal of technology and computer aided communication ages pretty well considering it was published in 1990.
Reading this book was wonderful. But then you get to the ending... And eh. So read it, by all means read it. It definitely makes you think. He strikes a cord when he describes these silent forests. And, living in the suburbs, I know what he means about these perfectly planted trees. Just be prepared to be disappointed by the ending. Just make up your own, and pretend like the written ending isn't real.
What Brin does especially well in this book is to show that saving the Earth might just be disastrous for humanity.
The social cost, particularly in the future Brin has created, to remedying environmental ills is not cheap, and the resulting moral dilemmas are none too small.
The author is obviously well-read and informed and the environmental and social futures Brin gives us hit just the right balance between surprising revelation and affirming present trends.
The technological solutions to saving dying species, the life changes we'll have to make in response to certain environmental catastrophes, the manifestations of in-group/out-group dynamics in the future, Brin works wonders with these.
I don't think he's seriously predicting a feral black hole, although no doubt something totally unexpected like that could very well show up at any time, either as a result of human stupidity or fate.
pseudo science and at worst the exact same thing the church did in the dark ages."Therefore, I decided to view Earth simply as sci-fi and not as a prophetic warning of dire times just around the corner.As a story, it has potential, although I'm not fond of the practice of using alternating chapters to cycle through a large cast of characters (interspersed in this case with what another reviewer calls "expositions and infodumps").
One irritation of many books, especially many found in the New York Times Best Seller List, is that the story and characters are so skeleton, if you were to blow on the page, perhaps the words themselves would float away in the wind for what little story and art there is between the cover of the novel.
Another thing he does well is tell the cautionary tale, a "prophetic" style of storytelling in Science Fiction that found its hight of popularity with the Cold War, and various writers visions of a world after WWIII and nuclear confrontation.
Let's end this...- Why would destroying the Glen Canyon dam NOT restore "the world's beauty one iota" Seems to me that it would indeed - a lot of iotas in fact!- After a bunch of cataclysmic occurrences, Logan thinks "This may be serious." D'ya think?- The author loves the weird words and deploys as many as a graduate of the Iowa writer's workshop.
The only sane alternative would have been to tell the author that all those neat ideas were really interesting but he needed to go back and write it all again with HALF as many pages.
While the purpose of science fiction is not typically to predict the future with accuracy, I was quite impressed with the accuracy of David Brin's predictions in this book, as well with his synthesis of multiple scientific disciplines.
I found one of his fictional reference passages, to be very interesting -"Nations are often likened to living bodies.
And so, oldtime state socialism may be said to have turned many a body politic into lazy, unproductive blobs.
Likewise, inherited wealth and aristocracy were egoistic cancers that ate the hearts out of countless other great nations.
Light is the scourge of error, and so both aristocracy and blob-socialism thrived on secrecy.
And it might have worked, had Brin kept his story on a smaller scale, focusing on the effect an abused planet was having on a few people.
In other cases, the story is filled with anachronisms: the space shuttle program is still active, and people are still wondering in 2038 whether there is water on Mars.
But the anachronisms could have simply been considered quaint and charming if the approach to the story had been better.There is one exceptional scene in the first 374 pages, where disaster befalls those tending a space station.
The book became too much of a slog.
At least David Brin had the courtesy to only beat me to print by a couple of decades, unlike those damned Pre-Socratics...But in all seriousness, this is a great book, and it has weathered the last twenty years far better than its ilk usually have any right to expect.
But the real reason to read this book (aside from the fact that it's great fun and full of global warming, earthquakes, black holes, tactical geology, radical philosophy, cyber warfare, space ships and lasers) is that many of the themes and issues he explores are just as relevant today as they were in 1989.
It's got its flaws (notably a detectably pedantic tone at times) but it's definitely worth the read.
Then one of our main characters through some fantasy physics creates a black hole and drops it into Earths core.
Then we discover the other black hole put there by aliens.
I actually liked that.The real problem with the book is the insane ending with the gravity beams, crazy ecco-terrorists, and above all the whole assention of one of the characters to godhood.
Oh, let's not forget the nice aliens.A lot of that would be forgiven if the prose and story were right, but this book cries out for a good editor.
To emphasise the point he includes an afterward lecture at the end to hammer this home.
Truly just awful. There are 150 interesting pages here, intermixed with 400 mind-numbingly boring pages. Despite Brin's reputation as a "hard" SF author not one scientific element if the story is believable. His insight that environmentalism leads to mysticism, collectivism, and ultimately totalitarianism is undercut by his apparent approval of this outcome. He claims to be an "optimist" but his future is the most depressing imaginable. If you see this book, run away like you are being chased by ravenous wolves. Because you are.
This book, although not likely to be an award-winning piece of English literature, wonderfully exemplifies how good sci-fi is a field of social commentary, thought experiments, and moral ruminations. I read this at a young age, and it was mind opening. Perhaps the glasses of youth led to a different view from that which I might have now (and that the disappointment in the poor ending has faded), but I would still definitely (or 'defo' in proper Australian) recommend.
Lousy book. Too long and too many characters who don't further the story. If author had cut out all the extraneous people and story-lines, the book would have been half as long and better. Brin is usually pretty good, but not this time.
Despite the many numerous poor reviews, I found this to be quite an enjoyable novel and, at the very least, gave me plenty of things to consider in my own view of my place in the grand scheme of things.
People suck, the Swiss have a navy, and the world becomes sentient. Oh, and a bunch of baboons go to the moon in a pyramid.
A few years ago I read David Brin’s The Postman and was rather unimpressed by the silly plot-line and story.
Then, a few months ago, I got a chance to hear Brin speak and found his talk quite interesting.
All this is to say that the story is a good one, and has redeemed Brin in my eyes and will have to read more of his work in … the future.
There is much to admire about this 1990-vintage panorama of Earth in the 50-year future (at the time of writing).
From our vantage point, ~20 years into that predicted future, many of the deeply disturbing trends are playing out along very similar lines as those predicted in the book.
All of these themes are treated with great skill, and a complex story that moves along nicely and with some very exciting developments.
I just didn't get the feeling that the major characters were portrayed with the skill that characterized the other elements of the story.
While we haven't yet had a literal war with banks and bankers in the real world, for instance, that sure reminds me of some things that have been in the cultural air the past few years.There's also the fact that the characters are mostly really good.
It turns out that one of the reasons that the book is called Earth is that one of the characters LITERALLY BECOMES MOTHER EARTH, basically a god living somehow in the flow of metals in the core.
(hide spoiler)]I will be sure to reread this sometime (and definitely on the year it takes place in), since there's a lot of detail to this, and all the detail is good.
I loved Brin's first three "Uplift" books (Sundiver, Startide Rising, and The Uplift War), thought the next three in that series (the "Jijo" books) were ok, and liked "The Postman," but "Earth" is so bad on so many levels I'm surprised I finished it.
I think I didn't bail out early because often his style is to have several seemingly unrelated stories going on at the same time, and as the book goes on it all makes sense in a surprising and/or enjoyable way.
But in "Earth" they didn't really come together, and when they did it was in very forced, contrived ways.
I just reread this as an exercise in revisiting books I loved when I was younger.
Earth didn't really hold up.
It was fun to read, but Brin has a problem with exclamation marks.
He uses so many of them that it causes you to want to ex them out with a little red pen and go around showing people (who didn't ask) that "The glacier exploded," is SO much more dramatic and effective than "The glacier exploded!" I was interested in Brin's take on consciousness and the Gaia Hypothesis (which I think is the high point of the book) though he completely (and tragically) misapprehended Dawkins's notion of the selfish gene.In short, it was fun because I'd read it before but I won't be recommending it to any of my friends (who have similar snobberies about exclamation points)
