https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/133035.Bloom_County
Can you say "More Bloom County"? Well, this is yet another excellent collection from one of America's greatest political cartoon satirists!
I was sifting through some old boxes of books and I came across my entire Bloom County collection.
Half an hour later I'd devoured the entire book and found myself, wringing piss out of my pants, slinging it at my children.What kid growing up in the 80s with even an iota of an inkling of the American political scene didn't read this just outstanding, just fucking hilarious newspaper strip?
The kids and animals of Bloom County and Milo's Meadow take on right-wingers, evangelists, oil companies and make a mockery of their local yokels and Republican politicians.This is crucially poignant shit.
I ran across a whole pile of Bloom County books at my library book sale.
The majority of the humor is based on a nuanced understanding of politics, ideology, and the media.
It's a good reminder that, though I remember my childhood as a simpler time, that was only because I didn't understand enough of what was going on around me.
We've taken steps forward since then, but the attitudes remain much the same.Revisiting this collection 30 years after its publication was an eye-opening experience.
I'm looking forward to what else I might find out, revisiting the other collections I picked up.
My Rating: 6/10I found this at Ducky Waddle's Emporium in Encinitas, CA. (A fantastic store just north of San Diego!) I have always had a soft spot for Bloom County, having enjoyed it in my youth.This is a very early collection, and this fact is evident in both the art and the development of the characters. It is still enjoyable Bloom County material, just not as refined as the later strips. I don't know if I could get into the dated 80's humor if I'd never seen the strip before, but I really enjoyed it as a nostalgic trip.
I was always a big fan of Bloom County and I remember looking forward to the Sunday comics in the newspaper so I could read about the exploits of Opus and Milo and Bill the Cat. I received this book as a present and I really liked it. I'm sure I read it numerous times. The illustrations are great and the humor is wickedly funny (or as I'm sure I would've said back then, 'wicked funny.') I will have to see if I can find this book somewhere in my shelves. I bet our girls would love it, too.
I really liked Breathed's Bloom County books when I was in my early teens, especially the manic energy that suffused the books (it sounds like that is how he produced them too). But after surviving the 80s and reading the great Doonesbury, I find that there's not much to ground these strips for me and as a result the humour has sort of evaporated. Who knows, maybe in another twenty years something will regrow for me, like George Herriman's desert dream-scape for Krazy Kat.
I love Bloome County.
I read Bloom County faithfully through the Eighties.
In my mind, there were only three great comic strips of the Eighties: Calvin and Hobbes, the Far Side, and Bloom County.
I really loved opening the newspaper every day and reading these three.
Bloom County was always the more political of the three, but not political enough to drive me away from the comic.
Some of the characters that appear in this book disappear from the strip later, like Bobbi and Cutter John, but they helped pioneer the humor that made this comic strip a classic.
Amazing how everything that comes up in this book, though just to be a statement of the time, is still really relevant.
Its crazy, reread it and you can find all the ways that the book complains about modern life.Some things don't age well.
This is both classic and timely.If you haven't looked at and are a fan of Bloom County and I have not tempted you.
Let me wave this piece of cod in front of your penguin beak.There is an early version of Bill the cat that doesn't have his bulbous eyes within these pages.
Then come look and see.
What can I say? It was love at first sight when I saw Opus!No--I won't be reviewing or commenting on all of the Bloom County books I own and have read dozens of times. (No need to thank me. LOL!) But I'm added them in anyway. Because I love his character as much now as I did when it first came out.Opus has grown and changed along with me over the years. But I've never forgotten my first love.
"Bill slept on a tree-shredder wrong...""My eyes are so curly and my hair is so blue..."The two joke punchlines I remember laughing at, memorable all this time later as they were the only ones I laughed at.Maybe I was too young, maybe it's not very good, maybe I just didn't get it, but I just thought this cartoon was just odd. Bill was the Kramer that offered hope of random wackiness, but his antics aside, the comics just left me cold... and vaguely uncomfortable.
With an introduction by 'Steve Dallas'. The only Bloom County collection I have. I don't know if this has some of the classic strips. The only one I've marked is the 'no news today' one. I'll check back later after I've reread it.Yeah, there're a few more. But this was evidently from before Oliver Wendell Jones joined the strip--and that little hacker was the source of many of the best strips.
In a nutshell, an imaginative cartoonist figures out what works and baffles the less erudite readers along the way. I love rereading collections, like this, that show the evolution of characters as the cartoonist finds his footing.
Along with Doonesbury, this is one of my favorite comics (political commentary?) I was aghast when Breathed choose to leave and I look forward to each days 'new' strip now that he's come back. ONly time will tell if he retains the sharp pen that skewered so many ideologies (both right and left.)
My first introduction to the funniest comic strip ever. Picked this up on a cross-country train ride with my mother when I was 16, and found myself laughing my butt off from D.C to Denver. I still find myself quoting Bloom County on occasion.
Liked it, looking for other Breathed work.
I think I still have this somewhere, and it's all coming apart. It was a salvation in college.
Just funny stuff.I had this years ago,don't know where it went.Glad to have found it.
i do not know why but i have always loved these comics, opus, milo, binkley and of course bill the cat. as a grown up i have to say i appreciate steve dallas a lot more
Love Bloom County. Probably my favorite comic strip of the last 30 years.
The first in a series of comic collections about the inhabitants of the eponymous county.
Opus is the man, well a man in penguin form. Excellent comics to cheer you up on a down day. I read a few every morning to start my day off right. Very recommended
Berk Breathead should be read backwards. It started out funny and innocent and morphed from being about Opus to more of a Bill the Cat kind of thing.
It doesn't get any better than Steve Dallas.
I read this in the 80's and just recently reread it. It was a fun as I had remembered.
Funny, heartrending, instructive, illuminating. To quote another great cartoonist, "I miss the early Eighties."
How we survived the 80's - Bloom County! Still wonderfully funny.
I really like the early Bloom Country comics!
I learned my favorite word from Opus: offensensitivity(page 38)
My first of many Bloom County books. This one will always have a special place in my heart.
