https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/313620.If_You_Want_to_Walk_on_Water_You_ve_Got_to_Get_Out_of_the_Boat
I loved this book, and it couldn't have come at more perfect timing in my life!
Everything in life has risks, and the only true failure is being a "boat potato!"I also really liked John Ortberg's writing style.
I found myself laughing out loud several times during the course of this book.
"I may be small potatoes, Lord, but this spud's for you!"In addition, he also provides questions for reflection at the end of each chapter.
I imagine that would make this book perfect for a small group study.
However, they are also good for personal reflection as well.
~ “The worst failure is not to sink in the waves. The worst failure is to never get out of the boat.”~ “He can take what you have to offer and make a difference that matters for eternity.”~ “Storms have a way of teaching that nothing else can.”~ “How much faith do I need?Just enough to come to Jesus.”  MAKE ALL YOU CAN, SAVE ALL YOU CAN, GIVE ALL YOU CAN~ The way you think creates your attitudes,the way you think shapes your emotions;the way you think governs your behavior….
This book was very nicely done from start to finish...i love Ortberg's style...seriousness/sarcasm/l
I am new to Goodreads but not to reading well written and inspirational books. I read this one a few years ago and it really challenges you to walk with God amidst all of the challenges in our lives. This is the kind of book that helps you look at yourself and your walk in life with a different perspective. A must read for anyone who needs a little inspiration and guidance in life. Well done.
I am not a particularly religious person but I do consider myself very spiritual. This was an excellent book whether you are one or the other.It's all about faith and finding God every day.
This is an amazing book on getting past every day routines and living out your walk with God!
It challenges the idea that living the Christian life is dull and boring. It's the adventure of a lifetime (make that an eternity!) if you're willing to leap out of your comfort zone.
Really awesome book about the power of stepping out on faith. Its great reading, and I highly recommend reading it with a patner or small group to discuss each chapter. GREAT BOOK CLUB Reading.
What a great read! If you want to be motived to serve the Lord and to grow in your faith then this is the book for you. Using the story of Peter walking on the water to Jesus Ortberg teaches lots of practical godly lessons for believers today. I have listed several quotes below that spoke to my heart. I hope they will also encourage you!There is a consistent pattern in Scripture of what happens in a life that God wants to use and improve:• There is always a call. God asks an ordinary person to e
God asks an ordinary person to engage in an act of extraordinary trust, that of getting out of the boat.•	There is always fear.
But every time that people said, “yes” to their calling, they experienced the power of God in their lives.
~ John OrtbergArthur Miller writes that this what lies at the heart of seven-days-a-week faith: “It is using one’s endowed giftedness to serve the world with excellence and, through that service, to love and honor God!
~ John Ortberg on discerning your callingReceiving a calling from God is not the same thing as falling into your dream career.

The third and fourth chapter I had to sludge through, but only because I am tired of the Christian version of "find the color of your parachute" so you can serve Jesus better.
They weren't bad chapters, and there is nothing wrong with people looking at their strengths and weaknesses to make better choices for vocation and avocations.
The ninth chapter, on waiting, was fantastic and worth the effort of trudging through 3 and 4.I also liked the last chapter, a reflection on worshipping a big God. Taking time to worship Him focuses us on His character, His omnipotence, His greatness.
Overall, I thought this was a great book!
Most of the ideas are illustrated by biblical stories and interpretations, which made the listening experience not unlike listening to a sermon on a Sunday morning.
Though a Buddhist, I still find a lot of the discussions on faith relevant.
For example, while the Christian concept of faith is utterly different from the Buddhist concept of mindfulness, the effect can be strikingly similar - a detachment from results and a focus on the process and the experience.
A cheesy metaphor may be, it still gives some idea to those who (like me) are still a bit clueless as to what to do with their lives...
What could you life be if you'd just get out of the boat?
John Ortberg invites you to consider the incredible potential that awaits you outside your comfort zone.
Out on the risky waters of faith, Jesus is waiting to meet you in ways that will change you forever, deepening your character and your trust in God. The experience is terrifying.
The choice is yours to know him as only a water-walker can, aligning yourself with God's purpose for your life in the process.
There's just one requirement: If You Want to Walk on Water, You've Got to Get Out of the Boat.
I had previously read "Everybody's Normal Until You Get To Know Them" and found it challenging and inspiriting so I approached "If You Want to Walk on Water..." with excitement and high expectations.
I'm not sure if it was the high expectations, or the actual mediocre nature of the book, but i found it hard to read, and although there were section which encouraged or challenged, on the whole if felt more like a long slog than life changing.
It was neither good as i have come to expect of ortberg, nor bad as to be thrown out the window when choosing a valid option in my opinion.
For those interested in reading spiritual 'study books' or supplemental guides to complement Bible study, this is a good read. Especially if, like me, like feels like it's squeezing in on you and you need to be reminded that you CAN do great things despite the circumstances.I work at a Christian Daycare and was given this book to read as a portion of my training. I'm so grateful I was given the opportunity to read it. I finished the book in 5 days, I enjoyed it so much. I found it encouraging, inspiring and convicting.
Far too many of us have put our faith in a casual Christianity that never compels us to leave our comfort zones. But, deep within our hearts we know that Christ has not called us to comfort, but to an exciting, sacrificial and overwhelmingly fulfilling faith. This book will show how to step out of the "boat" of casual Christianity so that we can faithfully follow the Lord who is calling us out onto the risky, exciting waters of a remarkable life of faith.
This is an outstanding book about the power of having faith. Ortberg writes in a clear, entertaining and motivational style, as he simplifies and brings to life, complicated and sometime what appears to be conflicting scriptural passages and parables. I highly recommend the book to anyone who is trying to gain a better understanding of how Biblical principles relate to everyday life.
BRILLIANT! There is no other way to describe it... I loved this book! If you've ever struggled with taking that step --- the one you KNOW you have to take but are second guessing yourself -- then READ THIS BOOK. I love the writing style of John Ortberg. He puts things in such a simple and effective way. I'm normally a fiction reader, but this was just as engaging as a fiction book.
This is probably the best book I've read this year. I like how Ortberg referenced relatable and true-to-life stories in the concepts he talked about. My book is practically abused with pen and pencil underlines. It's the type of book you'd love to reread again and again and still get new insights from it each time you do. :)
An easy book to read with some searching questions at the end of each chapter. This book was an epiphany for me particularly Chapter 8 on Focussing on Jesus. Not just explained as theory but practical steps. A good small group resource, we're doing it in our group at the moment.
This book definitely challenges you to "get out of the boat". I've always wondered what it would be like to literally walk on water, but John Ortberg explores stepping out of our comfort zones to "walk on water" in everyday living.
I'm currently teaching this book at our church and it's going wonderfully and we are just now getting into chapter 2 :)
Wow! A life changing book. May God Bless all who read it.
Inspirational & motivational. A good nudge to both acknoweldge gifts/talents you've been given as well as to pull them out of the bottom drawer and get to using them, as was intended for you.
So good! I highlighted approx 75% of this book. My only complaint is that I wish I would have read it sooner.
3.5
I finished it because it was for our Christian book group; otherwise I'd probably have lost interest and dropped it.The audible narrator--Maurice England--was great--he sounded like a husky voiced jolly grandfatherly type of person, imparting bits of country wisdom.Two more things that I'll mention: Ortberg gives a very detailed retelling of several familiar scriptural stories--Joseph of Egypt, Peter walking on the Water, Moses being called of the Lord and leading his people out of Egypt, Adam and Eve. In an effort to be funny and current, he imbues these stories with a lot of current day language and he assigns motivations to some of the characters that I don't think he earned a right to take liberties on.
Ortberg uses this story as guiding point, taking readers through the "stages" we are bound to experience when "walking on water" in life (discerning the call, taking the first step, doubting, and learning to wait).
Ortberg sums it up beautifully: "From this point on for the rest of your life, every time you walk on the water, each time you trust God and seek to discern and obey His calling on your life, your God will get bigger, and your worship will grow deeper, richer, and stronger." Highly recommended for anyone who needs some encouragement to get their feet wet or a solid reassurance to keep taking bold steps to walk on the water.
I have never forgotten, nor do I think I ever will, remember one significant lesson I learned and that is the fact that the most common command in the Bible is "Do not Fear" and not just the command but what God means when he tell us as His children what He means when He tell us not to be afraid.
I love the author's analogy to riding in a hot air balloon and being afraid and having to really trust that God had his back.
This is a book that focuses on an account in the New Testament about Peter walking on water after seeing Jesus appear to the disciples' boat in the Sea of Galilee.
Many illustrations, funny examples, encouraging words....It reads like ten sermons in a series preached by the author, that are later transcribed into a book.
What I like about this book is they are ten VERY GOOD sermons.
What I don't like about this book is, because these are very good, thoughtful sermons, I feel I need more time to internalize the inspiration and challenges each chapter presents.
So finishing the book in a day, or even a week, feel to rushed for me.
