https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/86758.Lovers_and_Gamblers
One of my favourtie Jackie Collins books which I read 25 years ago! I can still remember the story & how much I enjoyed reading about Dallas the beauty queen & Al King the rock star superstud (I always thought of Tom Jones as Al). Jackie Collins at her raunchy and well written best. If you want a great bonkbuster then this book has it all, absolutely unmissable!
The second book I picked up from the forever-talented Jackie Collins after the glorious...http://sleaze-factor.blogspot.ca/2017...
Well, well, well. What a wonderful story. From beginning to end for some reason you just had to love Al even though he was a crude, arrogant and so damn nasty towards women but I just couldn't help like him. It took forever though for Al and Dallas but finally such a happy ending. Al and Dallas worked together well when they finally made it together all the way through the jungle they were an amazing strength for everyone. I would definately recommend this to my friends to read.
Sexy beauty queen Dallas met Al King Super Star.
The outcome was explosive.
Gorgeous Al had groupies throwing their bodies in his direction.
Married and dissatisfied Al wants something more in his life.Dallas hates men.
A sordid secret past is threatening to destroy her career and she will stop at nothing to further her ambitions.Dallas and Al meet.
A coup de foudre but neither wants to admit it.Lew Margolis hates and desires DallasLinda Cosmo friend of Dallas and lover of his brother PaulBernie Suntan a guy with a big appetite and active toolCody Hills manager of DallasMisunderstandings, blackmail, murder and hijackings stalk the book.
OK, so it's probably not fashionable for a bloke to like Jackie Collins, but hey, I like them.
They're not too serious, they're funny, entertaining, and the characters always have a little bit of somebody you know in them.
Some of the more technical scenes are a bit short on detail, but hey, that's never the reason you pick up a Jackie Collins book.
Let's face it, you read her books to be entertained, and with this one, she doesn't disappoint.
And only Jackie Collins could make a character as thoroughly dis-likeable as Al King turn into something more.
If you are curious as to the content and quality of this book, do yourself a favor. Sneak into your local library and check out the first sentence of the first chapter (I cannot repeat it here). This is the entire book in a nutshell, all 611 pages of it and if you find that this is your cup of tea than I say godspeed! Enjoy! I will be in the washroom peeling my eyeballs.
Unbelievably good!This author never disappoints! This book is no exception. Fantastic, bigger than life characters and multiple plots kept me up far later than I thought I would be.
Free on Amazon today, 2/4/18!!
As with her other books, we find ourselves in the world of Hollywood stars and starlets, film premieres, models and everything in between.
And than there is Dallas (what a name btw!), a model / actress with a dodgy past which she would like to keep secret.
Initially separate stories, Al and Dallas will meet, but not the way Al likes to have it.
Her character's well drawn out without being too much OTT (indeed she manages this even with cliched stuff like Hollywood, models, rockstars).
I first read this book at the tender age of 12 years old thanks to my elementary bff who secretly snatched it from her parents.
I loved it.
It was so risqué, scandalous, dirty, glorious!
When I moved to the US I never forgot the title and author (I could never forget Jackie Collins’ glamourous pic) and borrowed it from the library and later owning a copy for myself.
I’ve re-read this book many times over the years and I still love it.
Ive always thought that if I enjoyed a book when I younger I would probably still like it today.
This was my 1st Jackie Collins novel, and I loved it.....I was so into the characters, she wrote about them and made them come to life..Even Al King, as arrogant, and self-centered as he was, you ended up loving him.....It was just one big fat delicious read!!!!
I read most of Jackie's books, but this one was my favorite!!!!!!!!You just fell in love with Dallas, and Evan and Paul and Al......There were some characters that you probably weren't supposed to love, but you did......It was well written, and held my interest from the very 1st page.....Like all of her books, not for the Faint Of Heart!!!!!
unquestionably deserves the description "page turner"" ~ New York Daily NewsNO DOUBT!"The plot moves from one location to another in fast fluid drive and the characters are developed realistically" ~ Houston ChronicleDefinitely!"The perfect.......
laid back read for which you have been longing" ~ West Coast Review of BooksAt least I was...What a hot book!This is one of the best books I've ever read.
I never wanted to put it down.
There's just one thing that I wish, and that is, there should have been written a proper love scene between Al King & Dallas when they got out of the jungle.
I was waiting for it.
a very good early jackie collins,The story is of Al King a rock/soul superstar,who is really like a spoilt child,becuase of his fame,his brother Paul,who has to keep his big brother on the stright and narrow,Dallas, a beauty queen with a past.Riots,bomb threats and kidnapping follow as well as family problems
My book club wanted a fun, easy read, but this book turned out to be awful. Most of the book was just depressing. The writing is horrible. There were almost no likable characters for the majority of the book. It took forever for the two main characters to finally get together. Ugh... stay away.
Lovers and GamblersJackie did it again. Her books are wild and fun to read. Lots of making it so much fun to read. This book is so good as usual. Enjoy
Evan's death was a tragedy! Bloody tragedy!
This is not the type of book i usually read .I first read this book about 20 years ago and just finished reading it for a second time, I enjoyed how the characters evolved over the course of the book, it was kind of obvious to me how most of it would play out with Al and Dallas,,there was a lot of twists and turns along the way with a lot of unexpected happenings.
I didnt enjoy what they do to Al's son after I started liking him.
I would read it again in another 20 years.
1975 redux readTypically wild Jackie Collins book that showed up as a free offering in email. Mystifying was the fact that all the afternoon blurbs used the present tense referring to Collins as if she were still alive.
Picked up this one as a study of older romance novels.
Consent is a big thing in the ones that are published now (thank goodness!), and I was curious if it was a generation ago (when I wasn't reading romance novels).
Hard to tell from this one exactly, but I'm thinking no.
The whole thing was so dreadfully misogynist (really, who wants to read about a 40 year old man getting together with coked up sisters?
or a party full of hot teenage girls attended by horny old men?
yuck.) And the reviewers who liked the story?
By the time I’d read this, I had read a few Jackie Collins and I actually remember I didn’t like this at all. Can’t remember why, obviously I didn’t like the characters. I think this book put me off and I hardly read any more of her books again!
Took me a long time to finish it. Definitely good to read, even better for fast readers. The last 100 pages reminded me why I chose to read it. Jackie Collins is good at employing vivid description in her work. This is what we look for in a novel.
Worst writing encountered in years.
It is a great book to read
This book pissed me off, drove my crazy, made me want to rip my hair out a couple times, and more than once I decided I "just wouldn't finish it." It's seriously one of my favorite books.All of that build up and frustration and all the stupid BS both characters are forced to go through...
It turned them into who they are, and it allowed us to truly see them develop into the characters we WANT them to be from the start.
It's a great story.
It will probably piss you off if you're anything like me, but it's a great story.
The only reason I gave it 1 star is the last few chapters at least had a story.
Everyone wants a piece of her and she plays hardball like the best of them.Al and Dallas are destined to get together, but you have to wade through many pages to get there.The other characters are thrown in for good measure.As usual Jackie Collins gives us sex, drugs and rock and roll in the Hollywood/rock scene.
It's been years since I read a Collins book and forgot how baudy and brash they were.
Be that as it may, I couldn't put it down.If you want a wild read, this one's for you!!
when success takes hold of your life, it can be tough keeping a grip on your sanity al king - a soul superstar and a legendary stud dallas - a smouldering beauty with big ambitions he is determined to f*** her and she is determined that she will not be - or is she?
800 pages of paperback which frankly i found rather drawn out and repetitiveplus the final scenario in the s.a. jungle seemed an add-0n just to extend the novel and was really not plausable.
plus to remove a metal spear from someone's chest would have resulted in their immediate death bev p.s. they should also sack the proof reader
Is this book trashy?
Incredibly.
Is this book ridiculous?
Without question.
Did I stay up late last night to finish it?
Yes. Yes I did.
After Jackie Collins passed, I realized I'd never read one of her books.
I picked one based on the number of stars on Amazon.
I decided to stick with it, just to say I'd read one.
It grabbed me (even though it was still ridiculous).
If you're looking for a good beach read, this would do the trick.
Probably won't read another of her books, but this was fun.
Filled with the expected depravity, boundary pushing, unlimited hookups and the total lack of any shame from the myriad cast of characters this was a wild ride that gave the kind of mindless entertainment that I needed and enjoyed without worrying about having found complete closure when the last page was read.Lovers and Gamblers lived up to it's name and proved once again the  Queen of trash managed to deliver a book hard to put down.
Not my favorite Collins book, but it's not awful. I felt as if it could have been significantly shorter. My biggest issue was the fact that I didn't really care about the main characters. Dallas had a ton of promise and Al could have been interesting, but I knew where they were going. Cody and Linda were the ones I was following more. The last portion of the story's third act was a little over-the-top, but it was kind of fun, definitely unexpected.
