https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7542715-the-adventure-of-the-three-garridebs
Holmes receives a letter from a Nathan Garrideb, asking for help in a peculiar quest.
He has been approached by John Garrideb of Kansas, who needs to find others with the same last name.The American Garrideb comes to see Holmes and Watson at Baker Street, and is not pleased that Nathan Garrideb has involved a detective.
Unable to find any in America, he has travelled to England, but has only found Nathan.During the interview, Holmes detects many discrepancies in John Garrideb’s story, but decides not to confront him.
3.5 stars
Like so many others, I thought that this short story was quite average Sherlock Holmes story in general.Except for one, very crucial thing - the bit where John is shot.Then my friend’s wiry arms were round me, and he was leading me to a chair.“You’re not hurt, Watson?
The clear, hard eyes were dimmed for a moment, and the firm lips were shaking.
All my years of humble but single-minded service culminated in that moment of revelation.“It’s nothing, Holmes.
If you had killed Watson, you would not have got out of this room alive.”Needless to say, this became my favourite Sherlock Holmes story in a flash.
at the start it was even slightly comical as Watson himself states.
Gave 4 stars just for this particular exchange which shows how deep the friendship between Holmes and Watson runs.
“You’re not hurt, Watson?
The clear, hard eyeswere dimmed for a moment, and the firm lips were shaking.
For the oneand only time I caught a glimpse of a great heart as well as of a greatbrain.
All my years of humble but single-minded service culminated inthat moment of revelation.
“It’s nothing, Holmes.
I can keep reading and re-reading this story how many ever times, just for this part!
So this was an okay-read until...It was worth a wound–it was worth many wounds–to know the depth of loyalty and love which lay behind that cold mask. The clear, hard eyes were dimmed for a moment, and the firm lips were shaking. For the one and only time I caught a glimpse of a great heart as well as of a great brain. All my years of humble but single-minded service culminated in that moment of revelation.Needless to say, this has become my favorite Sherlock short story to date.
I liked the set up to this one. Plus, Watson is thrown a freakin bone.
This was very good. It engages the readers in its story very brilliantly, thought the ending becomes somewhat predictable but not competently obvious. So it was really very good...i like it.:-D
"I didn't mind the wound -I wouldn't have minded many wounds- because if I hadn't been hurt, I would have never known the loyalty and love that Holmes felt for me, feelings which he almost always hid beneath his unemotional expressions and manners."- Watson
so Holmes has a telephone =o
Not my favorite story but I love the Holmes/Watson friendship quotes towards the end!
:)
Watson and Sherlock, sitting in a tree. K-I-S-S-I-N-G.
3.5This was an okay-read, with a sort of average story, until...It was worth a wound–it was worth many wounds–to know the depth of loyalty and love which lay behind that cold mask. The clear, hard eyes were dimmed for a moment, and the firm lips were shaking. For the one and only time I caught a glimpse of a great heart as well as of a great brain. All my years of humble but single-minded service culminated in that moment of revelation.Plus, that moment when Watson was thrown a bone.
"It was worth a wound, it was worth many wounds, to know the depth of loyalty and love which lay behind that cold mask" - was the best thing in this story to see the warm side behind that cold personality.
I still don't understand why didn't he just killed Garrideb. I mean, he is already a killer. He even shot Watson. He could have just killed Garrideb but no, he had to make up an elaborate back story and put an advertisement in the newspaper. That's just way too dramatic.
“Sherlock Holmes and the Adventure of the Three Garridebs– On the Case with Holmes and Watson” #13Fun series ***
Similar to the Red Headed League; always great!
The sixth short story in The Case Book of Sherlock Holmes by Arthur Conan Doyle. A case involving an unusual name. Clever and entertaining.
He has been approached by another man, John Garrideb of Kansas, who says that he needs to find others with the same last name.The American Garrideb comes to see Holmes and Watson at 221B Baker Street, and is apparently not very pleased that Nathan Garrideb has involved a detective.
So far, he has found only Nathan.During the interview, Holmes detects many discrepancies in John Garrideb's story, ranging from the time he has spent in London being obviously longer than he claims and his knowledge of a completely fictitious mayor of the town where Garrideb claims to have lived in before coming to England, but decides not to confront him.
To read this will be a particularly refreshing experience if you follow the order of the newer editions of "The Case-Book of Sherlock Holmes", as the two preceding stories consist of a fairly underwhelming tale that failed to surprise me despite its fantastic and promising title ("The Adventure of the Sussex Vampire") and possibly the worst Sherlock story of all time - "The Adventure of the Three Gables" - with its blatantly racist (and one could add sexist) notions.
Em comparação a outras histórias do cânone holmesiano, Os Três Garridebs talvez não seja das mais inovadoras - há um esquema não muito particularmente bem engendrado para tirar um pobre coitado do caminho (como em A Liga dos Cabeças Vermelhas) e uma quadrilha de falsificadores de dinheiro…O que chama a atenção nessa história, contudo, é a explosão de Holmes quando percebe que Watson foi ferido.
Essa é uma das primeiras vezes que o detetive demonstra emoção de forma irrestrita e mesmo Watson se impressiona ao se dar conta da importância que tem para o amigo.Última observação: eu adoraria ter visto o criminoso ganhando a tal medalha de que falam no final da história.
Humor bem ácido é o fechamento de Os Três Garridebs.
This story is a fairly average Sherlock Holmes story. However, the ending of this story puts it above the rest. Watson is shot and Holmes' stoic facade is dropped and we really get to see the concern and love he has for his friend.
The Adventure of the Three Garridebs was indeed a somewhat singular addition to the Holmes chronology. What starts out as an oddball adventure filled with eccentric characters rapidly turns into a more sinister and life-threatening situation. A nice and quick read. It was over a bit too soon.
It was a great mystery, and another great Holmes adventure. However, it was a bit confusing as to who the three Garridebs were. Read closely. Enjoy!
Ja, best een leuke twist.
This particular adventure had a wonderfully poignant scene between Holmes and Watson, and a clever villain to boot! Lovely indeed.
11/25/14 2.5
Bettie's Books
