https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/131529.Why_Do_Men_Have_Nipples_
This book is full of weird questions and myths. The author is a doctor who explains why some things happen and why some things are myths. The book is a good sense of humor. However, I listened to this on audiobook and it was read by the author and he was monotoned the whole time. I really struggled through this book.
This book, Why Do Men Have Nipples, coauthored with Billy Goldberg MD, sold more copies than all of his other great works combined.
As far as I'm concerned, this kind of coffee table dogshit is keeping one of the best writers in the world from writing work of substance.
I don't know who introduced Mark Leyner and Billy Goldberg MD, but if I ever find out, I'm getting my revolver.You know, I'd love to read his followup book, Why Do Men Fall Asleep After Sex. I really would.
The thirst for this kind of shit and the Svengali Billy Goldberg MD are collectively inhibiting one of the best writers in America.
Did I miss something here?
I read the whole book (okay, ALMOST the whole book -- I admit I skipped over the nonsensical instant messaging transcipts that seem to make up the bulk of the text, as well as the silly chapter intros) and I wasn't floored.
There's nothing in this book that you can't find out on your own with an Internet hookup and a brain cell or two to rub together.
Most of it is rehashed medical journal articles, and the rest is puffery.
The book seemed to be written more for the authors' enjoyment and entertainment than anything else.
Parts of it were downright rude, and the rest was either worthless or unbelievable.
Funny, fun and informative!
Totally lame. I thought it would be interesting. But mostly they just ask a bunch of interesting questions.. and manage to make the answers boring. Probably because a lot of the time the answer is like "we aren't sure" and then they make some smarmy dick jokes about it. They are like... unclever fratboys (is this redundant?). And they are adults (one is a doctor, allegedly), so it's even more unnaceptable. I'm not even giving this non-fiction shelving because, it was mostly just smarm-tastic commentary.
I picked this book up a couple of years ago because the title was just too good to pass up.
"Why Do Men Have Nipples?
Hundreds of Questions You'd Only Ask a Doctor After Your Third Martini" was a quick and hilarious read.
After reading this book, I can only wonder at the parties the author/s have been going to.
If you enjoy this book (and I certainly did, as did my teenagers) then you need to pick up the sequel "Why Do Men Fall Asleep After Sex?
More Questions You'd Only Ask a Doctor After Your Third Whiskey Sour."
I don't think the two authors are funny at all, especially the "gross" stuff (see the recipe for snot); a lot of the questions were idiotic (Can you die from chasing pop rocks with coke) or not compelling (who, when they have a doctor all to themselves at a party for a half hour or so, would really choose to ask Should you starve a fever and feed a cold?); many of the answers were vague and pointless (regarding the above, "There is no clear answer here."); and the writing is clumsy and reads like a first, not final draft, but tries to be clever which just makes it worse.
The impression given (and I guess the running joke) is that Leyner is effectively ripping off Goldberg as Goldberg is the doctor with all the answers to all of the questions while Leyner provides the comic relief.
This was a real pity, as I read another book recently called This Will Kill You: A Guide to the Ways in Which We Go that was what this book ought to have been and so easily could have been.Look, it wasn’t awful, but once I realised who Mr Leyner was I had such high hopes for this book that it was a shame they weren’t really met.
The trivia wasn't very fascinating.
I suppose that might be a good idea if they discussed writing the book or wrestling with which trivia to include but many of the transcripts read like this: "You there?" "I'm here.
It's a collaboration between a doctor and a humor writer so it should be hilarious, but the medical mumbo jumbo was over my head a lot of time and then I found I didn't really care enough to look further into it.
And the humor writer was just about the unfunniest person I've ever read.The only thing that saved the book from being a "one-star" read was the few bits and pieces of interesting and relevant trivia.
Hilarious!While reading this book I found my self thinking about the most ridiculous things (mostly about how funny it would be if farting was contagious) and laughing out loud all alone like a crazy person.
To explain the contagious fart fantasy (fantasy is totally the wrong word here!) hahaha..
This book had little side notes of comedy all through it and I really enjoyed reading it.
I'm glad I no longer have to live my life eating bland foods for fear of pimples and water weight and I can stop hoping to cure my bad eye sight the "old fashion way" hahaha.Great little read!
I'm resigned to the fact that I'll go to my grave not knowing the answers to certain mysteries of life, e.g., how did GW get elected the second time, what kind of childhood trauma leads to one enjoying foie gras ice cream, and so on.
The most interesting aspect of the book: the questions.
The answers are so-so.
But the most annoying parts are the idiotic interludes, which to me seem like the product of a mind in the process of a psychotic breakdown (and I don't mean the interesting kind; just full of random, rambling, moronic non sequiturs).
Frankly writing this review was the most enjoyable aspect of the book!
A great concept gone bad. The authors think they are hilarious -- they are not. They are often so busy laughing at themselves they take forever to get to the answer. Then the answers are short, very medical, and not always helpful.
Also, clearly I feel that Leyner should not be begrudged for making money to allow him to write whatever he likes later on.Although this type of "bathroom reader" will always have an appeal, there was probably no better time for it than when it appeared to go straight to the top of the book charts.
The book has a lot more of Leyner's popularity than I remember the sequel having.
This is perfectly fine for what it is. Most of these questions are not ground breaking so I didn't really learn any new information and I found the humor a little bit ridiculous, even for me.
Feeling under the weather, I searched the bathroom-read list for some fun, but this book is hardly funny. The authors tried too hard, and I can't believe their editor let them use those IM fillers.
Note subtitle: questions you'd only ask your doctor after your third martiniThe first time I saw this book, I was legitimately curious about the answers.
Aka, the guy at the cocktail party that actually does ask doctors these kinds of questions.
The answers are appropriately terse and cocktail party appropriate, that is, skipping over the science part and not nearly interesting enough to match the questions.- quality of writing: the two authors of the book are an ER doctor in New York and a television writer.
You can find out much more just using Google.The authors claim to be a doctor at "a well-known teaching hospital" (yeah?
And if you really are, why not name it?) and a "successful" screenwriter (whose TV series was cancelled after episode three).As for "humour"--well it left me cold.
Their idea of "humour" seems to be strictly middleschool boy stuff about drinking and belching and acting stupid in public.
Oh, and they don't drop names of the "well-known" people they hang with.
No, they drop the names of restaurants they eat at.I guess if you're a New York guy, you might find this funny.
A trivia book with facts mostly relating to medical matters. Some questions are interesting---It is bad to crack your knuckesl? Are yawns contagious? Does marijuana really help glaucoma---and some are less so. Of course, each reader may find their own likes and dislkies among the questions.You can skip the parts where the two authors are talking to each other--it is supposed to be funny and is not.A mildly interesting, odd book--worth skimming through once.. Might make a cute gag gift for any friend in the medical professions.Borrow it or find it used--it is not worth the $13.95 price tag.
1. A list of factoids with minor explanations (may be interesting to a lot of people) - alrightish (3 stars out of 5)2. Humor in the explanations - so so.3. Fillers: description of a party and chat logs - did not add absolutely anything to the book.
We had to read a humorous book for Book Club, so I read this one. Question and answer format about all of those weird things you have heard about your health. Is that really true? Some yes, some no. It was a quick read with some interesting info. You could read one page or a whole chapter.
This book, Why do Men Have Nipples written by Mark Leyner, has a title that begs you to pick it up and skim through it just out of curiosity.
D. added a generous helping of humor and included a few of their conversations during and after each chapter.
Great conversations can come from reading this book out loud to your spouse, friends or co- workers.
Some of the conversations held between the authors and their spouses etc were a little too goofy and silly for me, causing me skip forward to the beginning of the next chapter.
Apparently, most people grab this book expecting a comedy experience mixed with few funny/bizarre medical facts, but they get disappointed finding out that the narrative is plain science.
Also, frankly and as someone who has never been to the united states these jokes were largely obscure to me, they seem to heavily rely on local culture, and for a significant part it felt like I had no idea what the hell I was reading.Still, these intros added an enjoyable and lively atmosphere to the book, they also helped smoothing the transition from each chapter to the next one.
As a physician, I read this book because I have to agree with much of what the authors suggest - folks tend to ask doctors very strange questions when they are intoxicated, especially when they are not actually in the doctor's office or at the hospital but instead at a party.
Overall, I found it very amusing to read what the lay public really wants to know from their physician and the answers are accurate, if not presented in a way guaranteed to elicit laughs.
I imagine people calling up their parents just to tell them “I told you so!” Or maybe not!
“I love you so much more for trying to teach me the right thing, if only I’d listened to you when you asked me not to crack my knuckles, I do need good grip strength (that’s what the book says you will lose if you keep at it)!” is what you might have to tell them.And then the next thing you do is look at the well categorized chapter index again and clear all your other doubts before you get to the doubts that other people have.
I saw this in the Medicine Book Box and couldn't remember if I had read it or not.
I read lots of books of this type whenever I come across them.
I did give it another read because it was quick and I find this type of info really interesting.
I suppose this is the nature of a book like this, but the human body is treated as a single entity, not one full of individual variance from person to person.
I'm not sure what the authors' experience with variance is, but in my cadaver lab, I saw tons of individuality and variation in the many bodies I studied.
this book came about because a doctor noticed that everytime he went to a party and people found out he was a physician, they would ask very embarrassing or intimate questions that they were affraid to ask their own doctor.
so, he teamed up with a writer and answered all of the crazy questions people wanted to know but were too affraid to ask until a few martinis later.why do old people grow hair in their ears?how do poeple in wheelchairs have sex?why does asparagus make my pee smell?is sperm nutritious?
or fattening?why do men have nipples?this book had a very humorous approach to questions that i found interesting and was curious about myself.
This is the kind of book I love.
Short and pithy tidbits of arcane and esoteric knowledge.
This book repeatedly brought to mind Woody Allen's disparaging line about a restaurant, "The food stinks and the portions are small." The content wasn't very good, and I can't say I wish there had been more, but wow, were there very few words on these very small pages, and even then, those words were just not very interesting.
Smarmy, condescending, dull, irritating, and utterly pointless, the majority of this book left me plodding along in cold silence.
Strange things people want to know but are too embarrassed to bring them up during their hospital visit suddenly becomes an appropriate topic outside a hospital setting when you share a drink with a doctor.
To quote from the introduction " The sad fact is that one of the medical establishment great shortcomings is it's failure to teach what the general public wants to know about medicine " with that said, these questions are best answered under drunken haze where it poses no direct risk to harm a patient and there's no evidential paper work.Interesting enough, though less informative should not be your medical manual.
The book is a lot more humor than it is too factual, but you do learn a lot about the human body and why men have nipples :^) The photographer was quizzing me last night while we were taking the pictures, and I felt pretty darned smartish.
The book addresses things like folk remedies, food and the body, sex, aging, bathroom humor, and medical media (ER and the like).
It was a quick read and a short little book, but definitely FUNNY and informative, skewed a little more heavily towards funny.

