https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9862342-very-good-jeeves
Right ho!"Very Good, Jeeves" is a collection of 11 short stories featuring everyone's favorite valet ("a personal gentleman's gentleman," as Jeeves describes himself) and the ongoing scrapes of Mr. Bertie Wooster.
In each story, either Bertie or one of his friends and relatives is in a bind, and fortunately for everyone, Jeeves is always there to advise and set things right.
Goodreads lists this collection as being fourth in the series, but the marvelous thing about reading Wodehouse is it doesn't seem to matter which book you pick up first -- he's such a brilliant comic writer that you can pick up any Jeeves story and you're immersed.
One of the earlier Jeeves & Wooster, Very Good, Jeeves sees Wodehouse with some matured characters, but a plot that is still taking baby steps.If memory serves (and it seldom does, so take that with a necessary grain of salt!), the first few "Jeeves" books Wodehouse penned were written as short stories.
The books wherein Jeeves and Wooster get to flap their wings for the length of a novel are much more satisfying.
Bertie's "friends" and/or old school chums Tuppy Glossop and Bingo Little pop up occasionally.
I asked, inspecting the tray.- Kippered herrings, sir.- And I shouldn't wonder, I said, for I was in thoughtful mood, if even herrings haven't troubles of their own.- Quite possible, sir.- I mean, apart from getting kippered.- Yes, sir.- And so it goes on, Jeeves, so it goes on." The plan is to help Tuppy Glossop (the rascal with a taste for pranks from the first short story) impress his new girlfriend, a voluminous opera singer with a short temper named Cora Bellinger, while at the same time sabotaging the same efforts and returning Tuppy to the loving arms of Bertie's cousin Angela, daughter of the formidable Aunt Dahlia.
Bertie is a fun-loving - but rather dim - British toff who always getting involved in hare-brained schemes that go sideways.
And Jeeves is his very clever 'gentleman's gentleman' who invariably makes things right.Some of Bertie's escapades stem from his attempts to get back at his friend Tuppy Glossup.
Tuppy bet Bertie he couldn't swing across a swimming pool on a set of rings.....then disabled the last ring.
One thing I love about these stories: if there's a tug-of-war between Bertie and Jeeves - over loud trousers, an inappropriate hat, a tasteless vase, a missed trip to Monte Carlo, etc.
Wodehouse created a lot of characters,but they all pale in comparison to Jeeves and Bertie Wooster.This series is Wodehouse at his very best.
"Jeeves and the Impending Doom" is undoubtedly one of the stars, as Bertie is dispatched to Aunt Agatha's place to make an impression, and is manipulated into helping Bingo manage his wayward ward.
Then, Jeeves has his Monte Carlo vacation postponed in "Jeeves and the Yule-Tide Spirit," so that Bertie can attempt practical joke revenge on Tuppy at the same time he presses his suit with Roberta.
The way he pushed out that 'You!' sounded like an angry cobra, and I am betraying no secrets when I say that it did me no good whatsoever.(--from Jeeves and the Yule-Tide Spirit)Bingo said..., "By the way, Bertie, would you like a cocktail?""I would.""Well you won't get one.
Jeeves and the Impending Doom, the first story in Very Good, Jeeves!
What makes the above line so funny has nothing to do with Aunt Agatha or her hatchet, but the fact that she's hopping.
Wodehouse did this over and over again, but never quite as brilliantly as when he had Bertie say, "Have you ever noticed how a swan's eyebrows sort of meet in the middle?
Gives them a sort of peevish look." Jeeves and the Impending Doom is only one of eleven stories in Very Good, Jeeves!
but it gets things off to a great start.
Going into "Very Good, Jeeves," I knew five of its stories would be repeats for me -- they comprised another collection I read, "Jeeves and the Old School Chum" -- but it turns out I had already read all eleven of its stories.
I blame this on Wodehouse, whose book titles were all so bloody similar: "Very Good, Jeeves," "Thank You, Jeeves," "Right Ho, Jeeves," "The Inimitable Jeeves," "Carry On, Jeeves," "Oh Rather, Jeeves," "Cheerio, Jeeves," "Quite Right, Jeeves," "Indeed, Jeeves," etc., etc.
Banks, Aunt Dahlia, Sir Roderick Glossop and Bobbie Wickham among them.I was happy to read each of these stories again, and someday will enjoy reading them a third time.
Each night mum grabbed a few hours' sleep at her friends' house; Chrissy and Ralph were devotees of an Indian guru by the name of Swamiji.
Two days later, Swamiji called again: ‘I see purple.’ Out went the daffodils, replaced by swathes of irises.
Being fully paralysed I didn’t have much choice in the matter.Sister Mary visited most days and sprinkled my motionless body with Lourdes water that she kept in a plastic bottle.
I was quite taken aback when I later learned that they were bits of the charred remains of a revered Catholic priest.Swamiji blew and Sister Mary sprinkled and as they did so the two of them fell into meaningful discussion of matters philosophical and theological.
For unabashed, slightly dippy Anglophiles like me, the Jeeves-Wooster stories are a wonderful Brit fantasyland that could only be matched by a stay at Hogwarts.
Bertie is everybody's bitch, but in such a slight, charming world that could never exist anywhere at anytime, man, I want to be Bertie.They have baseball and rock star fantasy camps.
Why can't they have Jeeves and Wooster fantasy camps?
I'd still be Bertie in J&W fantasy camp.
There is no better antidote to the real world than Jeeves and Wooster.
Reading about Bertie's and Jeeves' adventures makes me happy. In my mind, Bertie is sort of like Mr. Bean, and Jeeves is the 007 of the butlering world. I think this is my 4th or 5th Wodehouse book in this series and I can't stop reading them. They're addictive!
The perfect getaway from the stress of life.
Delightful collection of stories, including Jeeves and the Yule-tide Spirit, which I have been trying to find for a couple of years! My favorite, however, was Indian Summer of an Uncle.
I've reviewed other Wodehouse story collections before, and he like Bernard Cornwell is so consistent that my comments here, both descriptive and appraising, would only copy past reviews. With a few adjustments, I could literally paste-in my review for  Right Ho Jeeves , as the difference lies in one being a novel and the other (this) a collection of stories. In short, Wodehouse has a brilliant way with the English language, which is never funnier than in his hands, and he tells amusing stories
I've reviewed other Wodehouse story collections before, and he like Bernard Cornwell is so consistent that my comments here, both descriptive and appraising, would only copy past reviews.
, as the difference lies in one being a novel and the other (this) a collection of stories.
In short, Wodehouse has a brilliant way with the English language, which is never funnier than in his hands, and he tells amusing stories about a society wastrel and his Machiavellian butler, who works endlessly to keep his young master out of trouble, i.e. marriage and useful employment.
Jeeves' solutions also have a way of destroying tacky articles of clothing and art that Bertie insists on dragging home.
I love Jonathan Cecil's narration of Wodehouse books! It has been a long time since I read this collection in paperback but I still remembered some of the stories quite well. However, that doesn't really matter with Wodehouse. I had intended to listen to this slowly, one story a day but found that I couldn't stop listening at just one :)
Bought this early Penguin edition to add to the shelves and to read again.Never fails to make you laugh.Recommended.
This was my first Jeeves book but I plan on going back to #1 and reading through the series!
My interest in the series was piqued when I recently bought "Jeeves and the Wedding Bells" which was written as an homage to P.
G. Wodehouse, several decades after the last Jeeves book was published.
I thought it made sense to read an original book in the series first.
I'm going to read a few more of the books, and get familiar with the other characters, before reading about the wedding bells!
I'm giving this book 5 stars not because it is a Great Book, but because for what it is--a collection of humorous stories--it is perfection. I hadn't read any Jeeves stories in a long time, and these delighted me as much as the first time I read them. I plan to read more Wodehouse in the future. Now there's a New Year's Resolution I can keep.
Classic book series that everyone loves. I did enjoy the British speak even though I didn't really understand most of it. I needed a British to American English dictionary at my side. I will have to do that for the next installment and hopefully I will get the humor.
Amazing book. All the stories are fantastic. This book made me a jolly little bird. Cheerio, Jeeves! :)
What a bally good book!
What with the blighted Aunt Agatha and the wonderful Aunt Dahlia (the only aunt in the Wooster clan who shouldn't be locked up in an asylum) making multiple appearances, along with an intolerable uncle, wailing cousins and a couple of blighted nephews, exotic dogs, the Pyke and what not.
I think, this entire piece of an unsuccessful attempt at bally writing of mine can be summed up as 'WHAT-HO!' .That's what a generous dose of Bertie Wooster and Jeeves can do to you.
A dose of Jeeves and Wooster is definitely good for what ails you. Wodehouse created a world in which the worst thing that happens is that a bobby's helmet is stolen by some inebriated (but always good-hearted) young men or Uncle George, Lord Yaxley, is planning to marry a young waitress. And the brainy Jeeves always has a scheme to set right any of these trifling wrongs.One wouldn't want a steady diet of such light fare, but occasionally it's good to remember that a merry heart doeth good like a medicine!
(hide spoiler)]4 Jeeves and the Song of Songs - Aunt Dahlia wants her daughter Angela back with beloved Tuppy, now enamored of hefty opera singer Cora Bellinger.
(hide spoiler)]6 The Spot of Art - Bertie declines cruise with Aunt Dahlia and sublime chef Anatole for artist Gwladys Pendlebury who paints portrait he hangs in his flat, both to disapproval of Jeeves.
(hide spoiler)]8 The Love that Purifies - Aunt Dahlia's Bonzo and Thomas are behaving well to win prize from old Mr Anstruther, but others have bets.
The social (mis)adventures of Bertie and friends and the subtlety manipulative solutions from Jeeves are laugh out loud funny. I highly recommend this as a break from the heavier things of life; Wodehouse is brilliant.
(157)"What with one thing and another--having been at a school where they didn't play it and so forth--rugby football is a game I can't claim absolutely to understand in all its niceties, if you know what I mean.
I mean to say, I know that the main scheme is to work the ball down the field somehow and deposit it over the line at the other end, and that, in order to squelch this programme, each side is allowed to put in a certain amount of assault and battery and do things to its fellow-man which, if done elsewhere, would result in fourteen days without the option, coupled with some strong remarks from the Bench.
What you might call the science of the thing is to Bertram Wooster a sealed book.
An entire book of these stories is a little tedious, due to the paint-by-numbers plot formula (Bertie Wooster has some social problem to contend with, he asks his butler Jeeves for advice, he ignores the advice, hijinks arise, and Jeeves swoops in to save the day, usually revealing that he ignored his employer's direction and set his initial plan in motion).But any of these individual stories is a lot of fun, if for no other reason than Wooster's breezy, booze-addled narration.
To say nothing of the period language - for example, the word "rannygazoo" is used multiple times in this book.
For too long I hesitated reading a book in this series thinking it was about a rich stuffy old fart who ordered his butler around.
Also it was written ages ago so what was considered thigh slapping humor then would hardly rate a chuckle today, right?
Wrong on both counts!
Good writing is always timeless and this was one of the funniest books I've ever read.
The chap Jeeves works for is a bumbler who gets himself into all kinds of awkward situations and constantly needs Jeeves to bail him out.
I've gotten most of the rest of the series and I'm looking forward to them.
When not sure what to read, I read and re-read Wodehouse. I recommend the same to all. Eleven tales in this volume and ten are stellar.
The only reason Very Good, Jeeves lost a star is because I am not a massive fan of short story collections, especially if I read them all in one go.
I have to read them very periodically in between other books in order to enjoy them as much as possible; reading them all at once makes me eventually bored of the very episodic style.That applies to all short story collections, not just this one.
Aside from that, this book was absolutely brilliant!
More than anything, P.G. Wodehouse’s writing style and turn-of-phrase is absolutely wonderful: very British, very cosy, very readable, and full of wit.
This was the first time I read Wodehouse and the experience was hilariously memorable.
Wooster and Jeeves, the master and valet, were in their element and did not disappoint.
Although the escapades are all very unlikely, and almost seem to be set in a parallel universe (Wodehousian?), there's an innocence attached to Wooster's thick-headed reliance on Jeeves' superior intellect.
He's like a small scale James Bond (no violence or anything too dangerous).Wodehouse is a master of words, seemingly shortening them (Wooster uses short forms) or by inventing them.
They've been coined by Plum (as his friends called him) himself but make perfect sense while reading.
