https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8997386-the-mystery-of-the-downs

A man was murdered or died, Lots of people have information that might help but is everyone telling the truth. The people who were to inherit any of his money did not get it . it seems it was hiding before he died and he was the only one who knew where it was. Tons of info about cryptograms and how to try to figure them out. Was way confusing for me. Explained when each person found more info to solve the crime and how it helped the police.
A slightly complicated classic mystery which ends up delving into much character history, but a rather good read none the less...
This was a classic but I was unaware when I picked it up. So it doesn't compare to the fast past crime mysteries of today but I still thought it was quite interesting and had a lot of twists and turns. I thought early on I had it figured out but was surprised more then once. I really enjoyed it and would recommend reading if you can handle this older writing style.
A reasonable "classic" mystery, with a not-totally-unexpected twist ending. The dialogue is wordy, and the characters difficult to sympathize with: no one really comes across as anyone a reader would like to know better. One is content to accept them at face value and read them as a type: the clever detective. The mysterious woman. The shady lover. The competition between police and amateur detective is not as vicious this time, but the tension is overplayed and overstated, told instead of shown. There are occasional asides into humor, but it is extremely dry.
Dnf. This book feels like the author has copied all the mystery tropes of his era and collected them into a single story. The writing is stilted, and the characters are carboard caricatures imitating their more successful predecessors. I wasn't surprised that it started slowly, as this is common in classic books, but I reached the fourth chapter and not only was the plot still slowly lumbering, it had developed numerous holes.
