https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/633401.Aimez_vous_Brahms_
I still have to find to courage to read de Beauvoir and Sarraulte, both of whom have reputations grand enough to frighten me off, but the other three have each brought me a good deal of joy, confusion, and pleasure in their moment.Which brings me to Sagan, who, I was warned by the author of that book about the Nobel, wrote romance novels.
Nu a fost tocmai genul meu de romanță, însă de-a lungul paginilor i-am avut în față pe Ingrid Bergman și pe Anthony Perkins, datorită memorabilei interpretări pe care aceștia au făcut-o în filmul care are la bază cartea de față, Goodbye Again(1961).
Iako melanholičan, roman nije patetičan. Predvidljivost mu ne oduzima draž već uz pomoć sveprisutnog daška Parižanima svojstvenog joie de vivre, kom ni istom merom prisutna seta ne umanjuje intenzitet, stvara bajkovitu atmosferu koja se ne da napustiti, pa se roman čita u dahu. Poput paukove mreže vešto su ispletene tri sudbine čije su se glavne uloge našle na pozornici Polinog života. Bramsova melodija prati njen iskorak u nepoznato, te ću pružiti sebi dovoljno slobode i pitanje romana prevesti na sledeći način:Volite li okolnosti koje prete da vam promene život iz korena?Prikaz je na blogu: http://totallyrandombyc.blogspot.com/...
Книгата може и да имаше малко повече стойност, която обаче беше безвъзвратно провалена от нескопосания изказ. Не препоръчвам това издание, определено.
Always and always will return to this Sagan. Personally, her best novella and I've read it, I think by now, countless times. It breaks my heart every single time. It's just indescribable how much I love it. When I read it for the first time I was much too young but it marked me for a lifetime.
A woman forced to look at her mid-life options and trying to recapture the exuberance and passion of youth, a study of loneliness and the curious attraction for a self-centered bully of an old lover versus the volatile, sensitive and slightly morbid younger man.The text is very short, but is has a poetic , insightful quality and I wouldn't add or take away any page.The English translation was good, but I would still like to try the original French version.a quote: Paule thought without bitterness: men really are amazing.
I discovered her through seeing a review of Bonjour Tristesse, and after reading that, I bought about 6 of her books.
Aimez-vous Brahms, Bonjour Tristesse and Un Certain Sourire are by far my favourites.
39 year old Paule is feeling lonely in her long term relationship with Roger, so turns to a passionate fling with young Simon Van den Besh, who loves her intensely and does everything he can to show her so.
Aimez-vous Brahms is a sad but passionate tale of a couple who search for other ways to be happy when their relationship is unfulfilling, but does this really make them happy?
Spicuiri din recenzia finala care se gaseste pe blogul meu ..........................................Scrie bine Sagan? Da. Dar este deranjantă repetiția obsesivă a vârstei protagoniștilor. Nici măcar în scrierile clasice în care se sublinia cât se poate de gros și apăsat oribilitatea pretendentului în vârstă la mâna eroinei principale nu se insista atât pe vârsta respectivului personaj. De atâtea ori se repetă vârstă lui Simon și cea a lui Paule încât ai senzația că participi la un concurs de me
Nici măcar în scrierile clasice în care se sublinia cât se poate de gros și apăsat oribilitatea pretendentului în vârstă la mâna eroinei principale nu se insista atât pe vârsta respectivului personaj.
Obsesia scriitoarei legată de subiectul abordat și de vârsta personajelor te poate face să dai din mână a lehamite de-a lungul cărții.
Până la urmă personajele lui Sagan sunt triste, nici măcar tragice, ci doar triste.
Incapabile de a-și asuma vârsta și crizele pe care aceasta le presupune, se aruncă cu turbare în relații fără niciun viitor dar categoric aducătoare de și mai multă suferință.
I made an exception with Aimez vous Brahms , which follows an older woman who has finally left her cheating lover.
Despite the romantic overtones, it really is more a study of an aging woman who tries to change her life, but sadly fails in the end.
I found mine by chance at Booksale and I haven't seen another copy since.)Like most of the books I've read, this too has been made into a movie starring Ingrid Bergman and Anthony Perkins (of Psycho fame) as the young lover.
I haven't found a copy of that either.
Mit Voranschleichen der Handlung begannen mich Paule, Simon und Roger zunehmend zu langweilen.
Stattdessen kam mir Paule wie ein unreifes altes Mädchen vor, die unter einer Weide sitzend Blütenblätter zupft ("Ich liebe Roger, ich liebe ihn nicht.
- Ich liebe Simon, ich liebe ihn nicht.
Ich fühle mich alt.
Zwei Sterne gebe ich nur, weil ich französische Dreiecksgeschichten mag, weil mir die reifen und klugen Worte Simons gen Ende gefielen und weil ich den Schlusssatz für gerecht halte und somit ein Happyend im truffaut'schen Sinne ist, wie ich es mag!
Roger este un barbat care nu poate sa iubeasca.
Paule il iubeste sincer pe Roger, dar se lasa stapanita de sentimentele sale, de pasiunea sa pentru un barbat incapabil sa se aseze "la casa lui".
Destinul ei e scris si poate fi schimbat - e predestinata sa il iubeasca pe Roger chiar daca reciproca nu este in totalitate valabila (Roger iubeste in felul lui, cu jumatati de masura).
Un roman care te lasa cu un sentiment de tristete, dar si de spaima pentru ca e mai actual ca niciodata.
The first, A Prescription for Love or STDs, was about a bunch of physically challenged people with weird eyes that sparkled, flaring nostrils and hair that was unruly.
This, the second, was about a bunch of French lovers.
And the French really know how to screw up and complicate love.
Or maybe I just don't appreciate love's complexity.
Or maybe I just don't give a shit.
Anyway, the lady is old (39 years old!
Her stupid and thoughtless lover that sleeps with young girls is 41 and the lady's new lover and cause of her confusion is 25.
the French, Paris, love...
How cheesy of me to be listening to Brahms while reading Aimez-vous Brahms...
:))Honestly pretty surprised I recognized most of the famous tunes, though I haven't listened to them in years (except for that lullaby that I hear even in my sleep).
As for the book, I remember my mum had a copy when I was a teenager, but for some reason I never laid my hands on it.
I find it sad that Sagan sees the forty year old woman as she does, stylish, fancy job and all, still charming, but for how long?, always in the arms of some man prone to cheat on hear every time the occasion presented itself.
Kniha zo života. Vyberieš si cestu a ideš po nej, aj keď od začiatku vieš, že nie je tá správna.
An interesting read for this day and age, despite de slightly old-fashioned narrative style. Intriguing how regardless the apparent freedom, women were still unable to leave toxic relationships. It's also a good reflection on the double standard showcased by the French society in the '60s in terms of what was acceptable for women vs. men. It made me think of Scott Fitzgerald's novels and love stories.
Goodbye Again, with Ingrid Bergman, Anthony Perkins, and Yves Montand, is one of my favorite films, so naturally I sought out this book. It's short, and I flew through it in a couple of hours. The film is very true to the book, and the casting--especially of Anthony Perkins--is really spot on. Roger is supposed to be a big guy, but it's hard to argue against Yves Montand.I love this story.
Maybe too "sweet"..but the story - predictable - is touching..Anyway, the movie is magnificent!
J'ai détesté le début. J'ai adoré la fin. Un roman à la psychologie subtile et à l'écriture sensible. Très beau!
Why do I do this to myself?As I read more of Sagan's books the less I like her work, not that I liked it in the beginning, but the writing was more enjoyable.
Un roman bunicel pentru un weekend liniștit, în natură, stând alene într-un hamac și citind ușor filă cu filă.
Paule (39 de ani) nu are demnitate de femeie, iartă, tânjește, nu se lasă iubită cu adevărat de tânărul Simon (25 de ani) e prea „verde” ca să iubească cu adevărat, dar nici prea curajos să lupte pentru iubirea vieții lui.
Roger prea fustangiu (vârsta nu i se specifică, dar are mai mult de 40 de ani), nu știe să prețuiască o dragoste sinceră și dedicată.
Abordare ușoară, stil de scriere accesibil pentru toate vârstele.
Älterer Mann bandelt mit bedeutungslosen jungen Frauen an, die ältere Frau mit einem nicht ganz so bedeutungslosen, viel zu gut aussehenden jungen Mann. Beschrieben werden die Profile von lauter sterbenden Menschen, die gefühlt andauernd durch Alleen fahren, dabei Händchen halten und Gesichter übereinander legen. Der konzentrierte Wille aller zum Unglück wird feinsinnig und in hübscher Sprache beschworen, so dass man nicht umhin kommt, den Glauben an eine Aufhebung der Einsamkeit wieder ganz neu zu verlieren. Also ein gelungenes Plädoyer für sofortigen Selbstmord, das aufgrund der gut beobachteten Situationen und der emotionalen Generösität ein schönes Lesevergnügen ist.
: هل تحبين برامس وكأنها تكشف لها منطقة عظيمة من نفسها شملها النسيان ..تكشف لها كل ما نسيته كل الأسئله التى تعمدت ان تتجنب مواجهتها .هل تحبيبن برامس ؟وهل كانت تحب شيئا اخر غير نفسها وغير وحودها الخاص ؟اجل كانت تحب ستندال كانت تحب هذا الكاتب وتلك هلى العلة:كان بعلمها انها تحبه تغنيها عن مطالعته .. وربما كانت تعلم مجرد العلم ايضا أنها تحب روجيه فتستغنى بهذا العلم عن الحب .ورب شئ اكتسبته النفس واعتادته يطيب لها كما يطيب لنا ان نعرف طريقنا فى الحياة مسترشدين بعلامات سبق ان ثبتناها فى مرحله ما ..
I felt like I was reading "How Stupid People Make Stupid Decisions and Ruin Their Lives." Not for me.
Damals ist eine romantische Beziehung einer fast 40 jährigen Frau mit einem Mitte zwanzig jährigen Mann noch sehr außergewöhnlich, vermute ich.
Anyway, die Heldin überwindet diesen Altersunterschied nicht und lässt ihn sie quälen.
Zuletzt gab sie ihren romantischen und leidenschaftlichen jungen Liebhaber auf und kam bei ihrem untreuen, aber nur ein paar Jahre jüngeren Freund zurück.
Ich halte Liebe/Beziehung für individuelle Erlebnisse und glaube, dass Emotionen und Gefühle an sich sehr flüchtig sind.
Aber woher weiß sie, dass Roger sie in der Zukunft nicht verlassen wird?
Bei einem untreuen und unehrlichen Partner wird man unglücklicher, glaube ich.
And I am glad I did.Set in 1950s Paris the book follows a brief period in the life of Paule, a 34-year-old Parisian career woman.
It is the kind of relationship that seems to be going nowhere and from which Paule seems to derive little comfort of affection.
At first, Paule is reluctant to be drawn into a relationship with Simon who is 14 years younger than her, but he is persistent and attraction of being with someone willing to devote time and energy on her is irresistible.
I found it to be a great little book with good characters and plot.
First published in 1959, Aimez-vous Brahms… was Françoise Sagan’s fourth novel.
Unlike her first two books (Bonjour Tristesse and A Certain Smile), Brahms features a relatively mature protagonist, Paule, a thirty-nine-year-old interior decorator living in Paris.
It’s the story of a woman at a key point in her life, poised on the brink of entering middle age and everything this represents – particularly with regards to the nature of her relationships with men.She had stationed herself at this mirror to kill time only to discover – she smiled at the thought – that time was gradually, painlessly killing her, aiming its blows at an appearance she knew had been loved.
7)To read my review, please click here:https://jacquiwine.wordpress.com/2018...
Recentemente uscita da una rilettura vorace (e quasi forzata) di “Bonjour Tristesse” ho trovato la narrativa di quest’opera della Sagan ancora più piacevole del suo romanzo primo. La storia di Paule, Roger, Simon descrive il modo in cui la vita a volte diventa insipida, incolore, tutt’altro che soddisfacente; l’inganno di un amore idealizzato ed avventato; le abitudini che si trasformano in vizi, che cagionano le passioni e alimentano l’angoscia, insaziabile, dell’impotenza e della fatalità. Bello, emotivo e meravigliosamente insoddisfacente.
My hopes weren't too high, that I would come across a worthful romantic story, of essence and with such a familiar language, amongst those vain, cheap and simple in words novels that everyone reads nowadays. I knew about the movie and with every mention of Simon in the book, I was positive that Anthony Perkins was a perfect fit for this role, as he took Simon's image in my head. Lovely read, I recommend it.
Dosť otravná a rozťahaná ľúbostná novela, ktorej mám chuť dať max. 2 hviezdičky. Posledných 18 riadkov však vyvažuje banálnu zápletku. Opis závideniahodného, nádherného smútku 25-ročného mladíka v kontraste k neuspokojivej, no bezpečnej rutine, ktorú si zvolí hlavná hrdinka na prahu stredného/zrelého veku, je koncentrátom krásy, jasnozrivosti aj ironického odstupu. Saganová na poslednú chvíľu svoju knihu zachránila.
A quick read that takes us back to another time...other morals...Paris.Paule loves Roger but he's a playboy...she's 39 and feeling her age...25 year old Simon comes along and adores her...what should she do?...she knows it's not going to work...but...I like short books and Francoise Sagan doesn't disappoint.
