https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2066739.Holiday
I expected fun and frolic, and languid beach conversation.
Fisher has come to the tiny beachside town leaving his hysterical wife behind, when he feels that he can no more tolerate their quarrels, verbal as well as physical.
Meg was never an easy go lucky woman to live with, but the death of their young son affected their relationship very adversely.
While in vacation, Edwin ruminates about his wife, his life, his previous relationships and many other things.
He also meets many females from various stations in life, as it is easy to make temporary friendships during a beachside vacation.
..This was a deceptively languid, powerful read.
So, it cannot be easy to share the Booker with Nadine Gordimer, and it is perhaps that misfortune that has caused Holiday to fall into some obscurity. It is a quiet book (not that The Conservationist is loud), and has an entirely narrow focus: the inner workings of a single man’s mind, on holiday in the English seaside, as he tries to sort out why his marriage failed. He meets fellow holiday-goers, deals with the machinations of his ex-in-laws who are trying to force a truce (and piece the marr
It is a quiet book (not that The Conservationist is loud), and has an entirely narrow focus: the inner workings of a single man’s mind, on holiday in the English seaside, as he tries to sort out why his marriage failed.
What is perhaps most interesting about this book is how very not interesting Fisher, the main character, is; there is nothing overly attractive or different about him that would seem to merit an entire novel dedicated to the inner working of his mind as he sifts through a failed middle-class life.
At a gentle pace, we are taking a holiday with Edwin Fisher, an ordinary lecturer, delaying the possible split from his hysterical wife.
So he meets with strangers, enjoys the temporary bonds and reminisces back on his love and marriage to make sense of his present situation.
It is more an introspection where he prefers to come back to his room with a book than cheat on Meg's thoughts.
Meg potrayed through Fisher is unreasonable, independent and a confused person.
Loved the book for it's thought provoking simple prose.
Plain, serious and precise. There's nothing gimmicky or trivial about this book; it's just beautifully written and finely observed. I really loved it.
I'd really looked forward to this, as it was an article in the Guardian earlier this year, on the book's release in paperback, that I first became aware of Middleton's work.
Surprisingly I couldn't get this book in either library I use, but they did have some other novels of his, which I thought were terrific.
I found the character of the wife, Meg, very sketchily developed and quite irritating - whereas in other books I'd thought Middleton had written complex, interesting female characters.
Worth a read but not in the same class as other books of his.
I have been watching Mad Men a lot recently (no spoilers, I promise) but with the recollections that our main character (Edwin Fisher) has about his marriage, I can't help picture Don Draper and Megan.
Now, Edwin is not nearly as attractive as Don Draper, but it's just something about the relationship that reminds me of them.This book is just so....
Edwin had such a chip on his shoulder about his own father, being embarrassed by him, while trying to outgrow his working class mannerisms for his entire life.
On the surface it would seem that very little happens in this novel a young man estranged from his wife goes on holiday, thinks about his family his father and his wife. However its so much more than that it, it's rich with memory, feeling and beautifully captures how it feels to be lost from someone confused by their rages, but still wanting to be in their presence.
Holiday is about a middle class teacher Edwin Fisher who goes on a holiday to Bealthorpe, an English seaside resort to get over a possible separation from his wife.
At times, I could not understand what Middleton was referring to - the book contains references to poems (like On Wenlock Edge: The Gale Of Life and Emotion by A.E.Housman) I have not read and composers and painters whom I was unaware of.
Middleton certainly pays attention to the minute details of an ordinary middle class life.
The book is filled with flashbacks of Fisher's childhood and marriage.
Delivered entirely from Fisher's point of view, the narrative engages in deft flashbacks that depict a relationship which is not so much doomed by acrimony as it is sadly neglected by both Edwin and Meg; Middleton allows us to see and hear their conflicts all too clearly, but we eventually twig to the fact that these two are somehow already divorced from their own feelings, too much to communicate effectively with each other.
Even his exchange with Lena Hollies, a woman who obviously has emotional depth and could provide a serious conversation from which they both could benefit, dissipates into frustrating verbal culs-de-sac.The final meeting between Meg and Edwin is understated and exquisitely well delivered.
In an effort to expose myself to a broader range of authors, I began many years ago to read my way through the list of Booker Prize-winning novels.  Holiday  is one I picked up a while back, and this past week I brought it with me on my vacation, figuring it would be an appropriate read. Bad move.I have read many overly-"literary" books that I was at least able to appreciate even if I didn't really enjoy them. This was not one of those books. This was painful. Every few pages I'd put it down and
In an effort to expose myself to a broader range of authors, I began many years ago to read my way through the list of Booker Prize-winning novels.
Bad move.I have read many overly-"literary" books that I was at least able to appreciate even if I didn't really enjoy them.
Except that the man didn't struggle much (except with whether or not to have a fling with a married woman, despite them having no apparent chemistry), he didn't seem to come to any great epiphanies over the course of the novel, and one can't really tell why he bothered to get back with his wife at all.
Nothing really new (ideas/theories) came from this Man Booker Prize-winning novel.
However, he is not the philosophical artist that other British authors who win the Booker seem to be.
There are minute plot branches that do not stretch far enough and Middleton has a very bad problem of making the flow broken at the worst times.
Yet I will say that the book was able to evoke a sense for a want of home; the idea that a holiday is an excursion and will soon fade and be over, as if you are taking time off from a mistake and are going to return to life as if it never happened afterwards .
This is one of those award-winning novels that, despite its stellar technical quality, left me bored. A young man, recently separated from his 6 year marriage, spends a week’s vacation at the shore. There he recalls childhood holidays, flirts with other vacationers and contemplates his complicated relationship with his wife. I never connected with this young man, understood the motivations of the central characters, made sense of all the sexual tension among the vacationers or cared about their petty lives.
Fisher takes a week's holiday in the same English seaside town he went to as a child. Recalling with embarrassment the way his father used to interact with his fellow boarding house guests, he is surprised to find himself acting in much the same way. An acutely drawn picture of life in the early 70s, things get much darker as Fisher mulls over whether or not to return to the unusal marriage he has recently walked away from.
Despite the prosaic and downbeat subject matter (man goes on holiday to Lincolnshire seaside town and considers whether to attempt to save his failing marriage) this book was surprisingly perceptive and moving, and I can understand why it won the Booker prize. Full of sharp observation, wry humour and humanity.
An interesting look at marriage. Even though this is set over 30 years ago it still seems relatively accurate to todays society.
Edwin Fisher takes a holiday to a seaside resort following his divorce, only to find his ex-wife's parents staying there also. A subtle and engaging book.
"Wakacje" to tydzień z życia trzydziestokilkuletniego mężczyzny, który po utracie syna i rozpadzie małżeństwa postanowił wyjechać do nadmorskiego miasteczka, w którym spędzał w dzieciństwie wakacje z rodzicami.
Poprzez strumień świadomości głównego bohatera Edwina Fishera, który analizuje swój związek, relacje z rodzicami, społeczeństwo angielskie niższych i wyższych sfer, otrzymujemy złożony obraz jego życia plus interesujące tło społeczne.
W tej książce niewiele się dzieje.
Narracja biegnie powoli jak wakacyjne życie w małym nadmorskim kurorcie i myśli Edwina, ale to zaleta tej książki, nie wada.
Ale dla przedkładających kontemplację rzeczywistości nad akcję i godzących się ze nawet finał nie daje odpowiedzi na wszystkie pytania gorąco polecam!
In reality, education lecturer Edwin Fisher is escaping from the death of his son and his crumbling marriage to grieving, volatile Meg. Through a series of flashbacks, prompted by events during his holiday, the reader sees how Edwin first met Meg, their courtship and eventual marriage, the birth and subsequent death of their son and how all these events affect them both.Fisher returns to the fictional seaside town of Bealthorpe, where he holidayed with his parents and sister as a child.
In fact flashback is here an inherent part of the structure of Holiday, whose hero, Edwin Fisher during a period of marital breakdown tells of his childhood, school life, courtship and his disastrous marriage to Meg, a woman who is his very antithesis.The novel begins in an East Coast seaside resort, where Fisher has gone to escape from constant domestic squabbles with his bellicose wife.
The one thing that Edwin and Meg have in common is an imposing and embarrassing father.
Boring !!The entire read is slow and dragging.
The writing style is plain with transitions(Fisher’s thoughts/memories) in between them seems unfit and unrecognisable which is confusing and breaking the natural flow.
It reminded me of ‘Gone Girl’.The characters Fisher met and befriend during his vacation, the “Smith’s and Hollie’s” are good and enjoyable.
Fisher’s fling with ‘Sandra’ and Mrs Hollies seems natural and explainable, but both the women were loyal to their husbands (although they reciprocated Fisher for a short moment of time).
A wonderful friendship developed among them which is visible towards the end.My revision of book was not that good.
A thirty something man, leaves his wife and goes on holiday to a seaside town evoking memories of his father of his overbearing shopkeeper father.
He spends the week, exploring his relationships with other people in the bed and breakfast in which he stays, has a series of mild flirtations and reflects on the various guests positions in society.
Whilst on holiday, the protagonist, Edwin, apparently accidentally bumps into his in-laws and thus ensues a series of reconciliatory gestures to end the estrangement between him and his wild, unpredictable wife.
Having recently separated from his wife Meg, school master Edwin Fisher decides to spend a week in an English seaside holiday resort.
Now, in his thirties, his marriage in trouble, following the devastating loss of their son, Fisher has a lot to come to terms with.
Fisher’s thoughts frequently return to the past, to the holidays of his childhood, and his relationship with Meg. Through his reminiscences we gradually come to understand the intricacies of the Fisher’s marriage and the trauma they suffered when their son died.
Fisher spends the first couple of days of his holiday indulging in old routines.
We spend a week in a seaside holiday resort with Edwin Fisher as he tries to make sense of his marriage.
He has separated from his wife and, as the week passes, we are party to his memories of his marriage, his family, and his wider approach to life.
At times hard to hold on to, his reality shifts with each day, made more complex by the arrival of his wife's parents, as they try to heal the marriage.
Holiday by Stanley Middleton This excellent novel has won the most important Booker Prize in 1974, s
***spoiler alert***I neither loved not hated this book, more I just felt it missed the opportunity to be... more. More passionate, more angsty, more angry at life's injustices. edwin Fisher has a choice to make, but its almost like he falls into it. he neither jumps at the chance to get back with Meg, nor feels dragged back into the relationship. it just all seemed a bit 'meh', which is a shame because I had warmed to him and the depiction of a different of-the-time Britain. I wanted something more decisive from the ending.
This was a slow book for me. I found the detailed writing really good and it reminded me of holidays in boarding houses in the early seventies. The descriptions of the social interactions along with Fisher's (the main character) internal thought processes were captivating but I didn't really care what happened by the end of the book.
Very boring. Yet another nail in the coffin that holds my faith in the Man Booker Prize. There's very little change in scenery, and I don't know if it was just my copy or not, but there were tons of typos and grammatical errors - some sentences were almost unreadable. I only gave it 2 stars because I appreciated his character development, and some of the flashbacks were nicely done.
Many of the descriptions of people by the seaside in the 70s struck a chord, but the main character didn't really do the same. He struck me as a spineless drifter. Couldn't really see how the novel won the Booker!
1974 booker prize
All I can think is there must have been a better choice for the Booker in 1974.
