https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47281.Number_the_Stars
With an age range of 5 years-old to 88 years-old in the car, this book managed to hold all of attention.Like most readers, I've read plenty of books set during the WWII era.
Set in a German-occupied Denmark in WWII, 'Number the Stars' tells the story of a teenaged Annemarie Johansen.
They become active in the resistance movement, helping to smuggle targeted groups of people to safety.I don't want to give too much away, because this is a story that I believe should be read and experienced by everyone.
This is the first WWII book that I've read about the Danish resistance movement.
i think it helped that i was so young when i read this, as imagining a ten year old standing up to nazis was something remarkable, but imaginable for me.
i read this book again and again, and it never changed.
it also helped that i had great-grandmothers who remembered the war, a swedish au pair who told me about seeing denmark from sweden, and an insatiable curiosity about things like this - so i was looking up things on maps and reading about german shepherds and the "scent rags" and.
we know the war is over, we know annemarie survived - but what does that mean for a little girl, after all?
4.5 stars for this jewel.
One reason I enjoy historical fiction is the educational aspect; learning about something for the first time.
This is not your typical WWII/Holocaust book.
This one tells the story of how the Danish people, after their small country was invaded by Germany, smuggled nearly the entire population of Jews (7,000) across the sea to Sweden, saving them from deportation and almost certain death.The story is told through the eyes of 10 year old Annemarie Johansen, and how her family participated in the hiding and smuggling of the Jewish people, and their involvement in the Danish Resistance.
Well done Lois Lowry.
I thoroughly enjoyed this beautifully written Historical Fiction story which I believe was written for children and yet adults may well find it such a worthwhile and enjoyable read as wellThe evacuation of Jews from Nazi-held Denmark is one of the great untold stories of World War II.
Lois Lowry fictionalizes a true-story account to bring this courageous tale to life.
I look forward to reading some Non Fiction books about this time in Denmark's history.I listened to this on audible and at under 3 hours its such a great book to escape with back to a different time.
As part of a children's book readathon I am hosting on my blog, Number the Stars by Lois Lowry was voted as a winner in the poll.
Normally I'm not a fan of reading literature that delves into this subject matter, but given it was written for young adults / children, I thought it would be less painful.
To think what cruel people condoned because of differences in humankind is atrocious, but this book was wonderful.Lowry provides the right balance of positive and negative emotion ensuring readers aren't swept up entirely in pain.
I know- I can't believe I'm just now reading this.
What kind of a children's librarian am I?This is a nice little story about a family who smuggles some Jewish friends out of Denmark during the Nazi occupation in 1943.
I've always envied my non-Scandinavian friends' more (in my mind) exotic backgrounds.I was amazed to read, though, of the courage and kindness of the Danes during WWII.
The afterword spoke of the weeks in 1943 when the Danes smuggled almost their entire Jewish population out of Denmark- nearly 7000 people- to save them from the Nazi death camps.
Lowry doesn't waste a word in NUMBER THE STARS, starting with Annemarie and Ellen's frightening run-in with German soldiers in the opening chapter.
he who numbers the stars one by one." "How can anyone number the stars?" Annemarie wonders.My favorite part of the book is when Ellen and AnneMarie are looking out over the bay and they say that's Swedan over there.
The fact that they talk about Swedan shows me that they are hopeful, curious, and anxious.Anyone who is interested in the Holocaust or the lives of Jewish families and their friends should read this book.
I would recommend this book to anyone and everyone who is looking for a good read.
(It's the perfect length for the effect Lowry wanted to create.) Like all great fiction, it's set in a particular time and place (here, Nazi-occupied Denmark in 1943), and happens to a viewpoint character with particular demographic characteristics --a little girl-- but it leads all of us, of whatever age, gender, and nationality, to identify with her in the universal human issues and experiences that lie behind the particulars.The Holocaust is a subject that's inherently harrowing.
I’m happy I chose this classic children’s story – it left a positive and lasting impression on many for a good reason.
The author keeps it relatively short due to the age group, but a full fledged story happens in the 137 pages.
The drugged handkerchief helping throw off the scents from hunting dogs was a new one by me.The simplistic writing style fits well with children’s fiction but the author has a healthy hand with foreshadowing and putting a lot of hope into the words.
Not everything is realistic but that’s not unusual with Historical children’s fiction either.
Please visit my blog www.readrantrockandroll.com for reviews on children's books like this regarding the Holocaust and WWIINumber the Stars by Lois Lowry is a book I read years ago. It's historical fiction but highlights the horror of WWII. It's a meaningful story that demonstrates what friends will do for each other when in need. This is an easy chapter book for middle grade students and older. I have recently re-read it as an adult and was captivated once again. 5*****
Number the Stars Bantam Doubleday Dell,1989, 152 pp., $5.99Lois Lowery ISBN 0-06-447073-3 “Annemarie looked up, panting, just as she reached the corner. Her laughter stopped. Her heart seemed to skip a beat. ‘Halte!’ the soldier ordered in a stern voice ” (2, Lowery). And so begins Lois Lowery’s Number the Stars. When I first began to read Number the Stars a few years ago, I found that I could hardly get passed page three without dozing off. Recently, I had a friend tell me I should give the boo
Number the Stars 			 Bantam Doubleday Dell,1989, 152 pp., $5.99Lois Lowery 				 ISBN 0-06-447073-3	“Annemarie looked up, panting, just as she reached the corner.
And so begins Lois Lowery’s Number the Stars.
The story is about a ten-year-old girl living in Copenhagen, Denmark during the Nazi invasion.
Young Annemarie Johansen’s life is drastically altered, between her disappearing neighbors, rations on food and Nazi soldiers on every corner.
At the beginning of the story, Annemarie seems used to and and accepting of the Nazi soldiers on every corner.
Number the Stars is a gripping and moving novel that truly deserves its Newbery Medal.
বিকেলে অভযাসমতো বারানদায় বসে ঢুলে ঢুলে পড়ছিলাম! মা এসে কানের কাছে কিছুকষণ ঝিঁঝিঁ পোকার ডাক ডাকলো! আমি তো বইয়েই তনময়! কানে টান খেয়ে হুশ হলো যখন ততকষণে বা কানের লতিটা টকটকে লাল। মুঠোফোনে যে বইও পড়া যায় তা বুঝাতে লাগলো ৩মিনিট, ৪ মিনিটের মাথায় চোখ নষট করছি বলে আবার মাথায় চাঁটি! মন খারাপ নিয়ে বইটা পড়তে শুরু করেছিলাম, শেষ করবার সময়ও কেমন মেদুর মেদুর ভাব! মাতাজির এসমসত আদর তাতে যেন গরম ভাতে ঘি! দবিতীয় বিশবযুদধ নিয়ে যে কোন বই আমার কাছে পোলাওয়ের শেষ পাতে ঘরে পাতা মিষটি দইয়ের মতোন! পেলেই লুফে নেই! এই বইটি
মগজে কতটুকু ধরে রাখতে পারি সে কথা জিজ্ঞেস করে কেউ লজ্জা না দিলে ভাল। কিন্তু পড়বার সময় যেন মুখে কেউ আমিত্তি পুরে দেয়। যুদ্ধের ডামাডোলেও ডেনিশ রাজা যখন দেহরক্ষীর তোয়াক্কা না করে ঘোড়ায় চড়ে রোজ ঘুরতে বের হন মনে হয় আমিও জানালা খুলে একটু দেখি, পারলে নেমে গিয়ে কথা বলে আসি। জার্মান সৈন্যর প্রশ্নের জবাবে ছোট ছেলেটা বলে আমাদের রাজার দেহরক্ষীর দরকার নেই, আমরা পুরো ডেনমার্ক তার দেহরক্ষী- ভিতরটা কেমন যেন সাহসে গরম হয়ে ওঠে!
কিন্তু দুই-তিন প্যারায় যখন দেখি সব সত্যি, এমনকি চলে যাবার আগে পিটারের চিঠিটা পর্যন্ত আবার কেমন যেন মনটা গুমগুম করে। চোখ বন্ধ করলে একটা শীর্ণ হলদে কাগজে আমি কিছু জ্বলজ্বলে শব্দ দেখতে পাই। শব্দগুলো ভীষণ সাহসী!
So cute! Not quite what I expected, but still super sweet! <3
Yes the target audience is young adults but I as an old adult found it an amazing and educational story of the Nazi occupation of Denmark.From the Afterword, a part of a letter written by a young man from the Resistance to his mother, on the eve of his execution:"You must not dream yourselves back to the times before the war, but the dream for you all, young and old, must be to create an ideal of human decency, and not a narrow-minded and prejudice one."I'm all for human decency, anytime, anywhere.
A delicately written and touchingly poignant book.
As usual, a child’s viewpoint is one of the most gripping and beautiful ways to tell a story set in WW2 as we are gaze with the bland honesty and persistent spirit of youth at something unthinkable.
This combined with the writing style creates a deeply resonating story of heroism and the reality of being normal in a world gone mad.
Content: A few swear words.
Some intense content regarding the Nazi regime (including how they ran over a young girl with a car).
The author implies that world peace and universal human decency is possible.
I'm serious, it's like this book and "Summer of my German Soldier" were written with the same purpose in mind: educate students about the Holocaust in just about the most boring way possible.
Thank God there's the History Channel, or else my generation would've have thought the Holocaust as if it were simply a story about little girls and their twisted lives.
How it ever won the Newberry Medal is beyond me.
Yea, I'd like my money and my time back, please?
It must have been a slow year the year it won.
This is a safe, easy way for children to be introduced to a little of what happened during the holocaust. When I was growing up, one of my mother’s friends was from Denmark (she traveled back there once a year), and she was very proud of how her homeland had behaved during World War II. I really enjoyed this book and thought of Edna while reading it.
She wrapped this little shit with a vintage wrapper, stashed it under my bed and asked me to clean my room because it resembles a pigsty.
(Guess what it is.) Our house is an old ancestral house and there's a lot of thing's I haven't seen yet at that house at the age of ten.So gullible me took the wrapped parcel and opened it.
An old book with yellow crisp pages!
I love old things and when you combine  old + books  you get a curious girl.
Five glorious stars! This book was incredible!!! Lois Lowry did an excellent job of writing a WWII book and make it for a younger audience! But honestly anyone can enjoy it! Just the themes throughout this book and diversity is beautiful! Lois Lowry is probably one of my new favorite authors cause I enjoyed The Giver and I enjoyed this, so I'm bound to enjoy other books by her!
The idea of drugged handkerchief was new to me.The German were so desperate to catch Jews that they brought hunting dogs into the picture, 'who could find out a person by smelling a dried fish'.
So this drug was made of rabbit's blood and cocaine, the dogs used to get attracted to blood and with the cocaine's smell they'd loose their sense of smelling and couldn't find the suspected person.
Wasn't it cool to know!!The way the protagonist of this book Annemarie Johansen, tells stories and her bravery makes one think to become brave himself too.
sweet and innocent about the tone of this book, even in the midst of the terrible things going on all around Annemarie, the 10-year-old protagonist.
I honestly knew next to nothing about Nazis outside of Germany, so I actually learned a lot by reading this.Also, I felt as if I was stepping right into Annemarie's world.
I enjoyed reading it, 100%—I learned a lot, and was really invested in the characters' lives by the end—there was just a certain something missing in that department.The final verdict: I was super excited to find this book in Goodwill one day, and I was not disappointed!
I read this way back in elementary school but this story has stuck with me, even today!
The story begins with an introduction to the cruelty of German soldiers who are occupying Denmark, the story's heroine, Annemarie, her younger (and more bratty), and her best friend Ellen Rosen.
From there, this young adult novel tells a tale of bravery.Soon after the beginning of the story, the Nazi soldiers begin attempting to take Denmark's Jewish citizens away to concentration camps (read: starvation and eventual death).
Eventually, Annemarie's family smuggle Ellen Rosen, a young Jewish girl, to their relative's house near Sweden.
One of the best things about Number the Stars, for me, was the way Annemarie demonstrated quiet bravery in the face of danger.
Story takes place in 1943, Nazi occupied Denmark, we follow story of ten year old Annemarie and her best friend, Ellen, who is jewish. This is story all about what danish people did to protect their jewish friends and neighbors. Its a short story but still had a great story line. Reading about Holocaust is always incredibly sad no matter if the story has a happy ending or not.
A very good YA story about a Danish family secretly working with the resistance to help their Jewish friends escape the Nazis. I realistic and gentle enough for younger adolescents introduction to the Holocaust. Wonderful examples of courage, loyalty, friendship and family.
The scenes that had been subconsciously hidden in my mind for years unearthed themselves as I turned the pages -- indeed, it is a memorable book.The story is a courageous tale of fictional ten-year-old Annemarie -- and of the real citizens of World War II Denmark, who swiftly united to smuggle their Jewish population to Sweden, which was well worth learning about.
Additionally, the writing is superb: somehow, Lowry manages to weave detail and plot together in a way that enriches young (and old) readers while not overwhelming them.
It was definitely worth revisiting.
And yes I did!I always feel sad after reading books related to Nazi invasion.
But this book left me with some beautiful feelings!
It is a gleaming jewel which tells a story of a brave 10 years old, Annemarie who risks her life to save her best friend Ellen.
Yeah, I know it’s a fiction and the plot seems very unreal in perspective of the real situation which was awful, but there’s no harm in thinking like this, right?Maybe there were some brave youngsters like Annemarie who stood up valiantly against the Nazis to save others, to save their best friends!
I love books about WWII and this has been one of my favorites since I read it in 6th grade!
4.5 starsSuch a powerful story that can be enjoyed at any age. Weather you're reading this to your 5 year old or you're reading it at age 55, you can still learn from and enjoy this wonderful book.
1940'lı yıllar.
Danimarka Nazi işgali altında.
Almanlar'ın Yahudilerin iş yerlerini kapattığı, onlara sokağa çıkma yasağı uyguladığı, evlerinden barklarından edip oradan oraya sürdürdüğü kara günler.
Tarihi gerçeklerden esinlenerek yazılmış kurgusal bir hikaye.
Danimarka ve halkının hikayesi.10 yaşındaki Annemarie, Yahudi olan arkadaşı Ellen için kendini hiç düşünmeden tehlikeye atar.
Dostluğu, cesareti, sadakati bu olumsuz şartlar altında bizzat yaşayarak öğrenir.
Annemarie'nin ailesi Yahudi komşuları Rosenlar'a bu zor günlerde adeta kol kanat gererler.
Onlar için yapmadıkları şey kalmaz.
Okur, yetişkinlerin sınırlamalar, kısıtlamalarla yaşadıkları dünyaya, bir çocuğun gözünden bakmaya davet ediliyor.
Sıradan insanların, işgal altındaki vatandaşlar için hiç düşünmeden yardım ederek devleştiği bir öykü bu.
Kısacası insanlığa dair güzel umutlar vaadeden bir öykü.
