https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28910.Journal_of_a_Novel

However, the most signficant aspect of the work is the light that the letters throw on the process through which East of Eden was written, on Steinbeck's passionate devotion to the writing of the novel and on his own psychological make-up.
While there is some repetition in the letters - there were days which were a lot like other days - the work is also full of insights into how Steinbeck felt, not just about the book, but about writing.
Such a great journal. I enjoyed every word. Steinbeck was certainly an interesting man. This book gives us an inside look at how he worked. Myself, not so much a plot-driven devotee, but Steinbeck clearly had a plan and he carried it out to perfection. I admire him for that and respect his process.
There were a couple of nuggets of gold here that made me wonder if Steinbeck thinks as beautifully as he writes. The behind the scenes info on EOE was mostly very vague, but sometimes insightful. It was fascinating seeing how an author at his prime has plotted out his novel and executes it. I'd recommend this to hard core Steinbeck or EOE lovers, but the casual reader won't get much from it.
I go down on my knees before you, Sir. It was you who taught me how to tell a story.
You, who are so darn good, yet so vulnerable and humble.What writer would have the guts to admit, 'Although sometimes I have felt I held fire in my hands and spread a page with shining, I have never lost the weight of clumsiness, of ignorance, of aching inability.'And this just after he has put East of Eden together?
East of Eden, three times, plus Cannery Row, Tortilla Flat, Of Mice and Men, The Pearl, at least once.Good story-telling.
As a fan of East of Eden and the work of John Steinbeck in general, I loved this book.
With all the cuts that were made to the final product of East of Eden, it's sometimes difficult to tell whether Steinbeck was really dabbling in Postmodernism or not.
And for that, I love this man.For the writer, there are some wonderful bits of advice in Journal, but it's probably not worth reading the entire work.
But you, you probably don't care.I'd only recommend this book for those who have a passion for East of Eden.
Only someone of the stature of John Steinbeck, flying in the fame of his seminal, Pulitzer Prize winning novel, Grapes of Wrath, could have pulled off publishing a diary maintained through the months he wrote his longest and (in his eyes) best book, East of Eden.The diary was written to his editor Pascal Covici and has an entry for each working day on the novel.
And Steinbeck sharpens his pencils daily and runs through dozens of them before the book is finished.Steinbeck comes across as a needy, manic-depressive, constantly in need of validation, given to sudden bouts of binge drinking and worrying about his equally troubled son, Tom. His health could also have been compromised due to wounds suffered when he was a correspondent during WWII.
It is interesting to read what Steinbeck's concerns were while writing this novel of his home town.
He interweaves family history in with the fictional Trasks to create a counterpoint in the novel, especially concerning the evilness of Cathy.
The parts of his family history also concerned him in the novel, but he let them stand as this offered contrast and slowed the story down so his readers could savor the story.
While writing the novel and keeping the diary he kept track of concerns for his sons, what his stepdaughter, Waverly, was doing and the entertainments which he and his third wife, Elaine went to.
Won't leave you breathless, but interesting if you are interested in Steinbeck's personal life, if you are studying East of Eden academically, or if you want to see how writers coax their creativity and manage their personal lives into an unequal yoke whereby, for a brief time most days, they can get work done on lengthy writing projects.
Just completed John Steinbeck's Journal of a Novel, which he wrote while he developed East of Eden.
He discusses his health; his sons and his wife, Elaine; his critics; his books; his fears and joys; and the development of East of Eden and with many of its characters and their experiences.
Journal was written in the form of letters to his friend and editor of The Viking Press, Pascal Covici, and were written on the left-hand pages of the notebook in which he write East of Eden.
It's a most interesting book and an enlightening look into the life of an author who struggles and struggles in his writing.
"I feel that sometimes when I am writing I am very near to a kind of unconsciousness.
And here he has "the secret writing which will be burned but that deals with matters I have no wish for anyone to see...
The joy thing in me has two outlets: one a fine charge of love toward the incredibly desirable body and sweetness of woman, and second--mostly both--the paper and pencil or pen.
And it is interesting to think what paper and pencil and the wriggling words are.
Although Steinbeck has never been one of my favorite novelists--he should NOT have inflicted the end of The Grapes of Wrath on us--I do love Tortilla Flats.
I dog-eared the pages of my favorites.
Now my copy's twice as thick as it's supposed to be.I will trot out only this one, my favorite of all favorites (and for obvious reasons to anyone who knows anything about me at all):"I know it is rough [to read:] and will need a lot of rewriting but I am never shy about it when a professional is doing the reading.
They immediately start rewriting.
Steinbeck wrote the journal on the left-hand pages of a notebook and the novel (East of Eden) on the right-hand pages.
The journal, written as a letter to his editor, was his warm-up for the day.
For example, he wrote in pencil (crazy!) and he was completely anal-retentive about his pencils.
They had to be a certain kind, he spent time sharpening them at the beginning of the day so he wouldn't have to stop while writing, gave them to his kids when they got too short, etc.
And his journals were filled with same crap that goes through my head before I start writing.
I love Steinbeck most of all for his abiltiy to be double-brained (is that a word/concept?) What I mean is that he is not only the consumate artist in his writing but he can also build you a cabinet, fix your car and whittle you a duck from birch wood.Here you have a glimpse into the wonderful world of a brilliant writer.
Between laments on the progress of his book, we get letters to friends about parties, doubts, side-projects, precious vacations, fears, failures and wild successes.
It's an honest portrayal of what it takes to complete a masterpiece.
Oh, what it must have been like to be his wife...
This book was not full of the in depth, inner-workings of John Steinbeck's beautiful brain as I was hoping for. Instead of being a gold mine for dissecting East of Eden, it was simply a rather unromanced view of Steinbeck's quite normal life as he wrote and edited the novel. Although it didn't live up to my glorious expectations, I still loved the book. I found it very inspiring to read what a great novelist writes about writing."In utter loneliness a writer tries to explain the inexplicable."
Journal/Letters to his editor written along with writing East of Eden.
I remember that in high school we would sometimes wonder about all the stuff the teachers "found" in various texts-- symbolism, foreshadowing, etc.-- if the author really meant to put all that in, or readers just imagined it later.
In the case of EofE, Steinbeck meant it.
I read this years ago, and the thing that stands out clearest to me now was the painstaking effort at work on important scenes, the work of going back and filling in symbolism, foreshadowing, etc.
Proof that writing for a living is hard work.
Probably would have been better if I had read it in parallel with the novel. Cool to get insights into the author's mind when he was writing East of Eden, but I struggled to get through it.
"...I want to write this one as though it were my last book." (quoted from page 8, February 12.) From January 29-November 1, 1951 John Steinbeck documented the writing of East of Eden in notebooks, entries addressed to "Pat" (Pascal Covici, his friend and editor at Viking Press.) I took my time reading these letters every night just before going to sleep.
The entries are overflowing with the knowledge that not everyone is going to like the book at the same time that he knows there will be people who will love it...it's an emotional see-saw, at one moment he says "Oh the Hell with it", and the next, he's agonizing with self doubt.
Everything he had written before was in preparation for "East of Eden", his long book, one he wanted to take his time with.
It is not written for them to read now but when they are grown and the pains and joys have tousled them a little." (When I first began to read "East of Eden" and how he wrote about Samuel Hamilton, the patriarch of the family, I thought: boy, he really likes/loves this character!
And, he was always thinking, thinking, thinking.I recommend this book to anyone who enjoyed reading the novel and would like to understand what Steinbeck's writing process and daily life was like at the time.
This book is for:Fans of John SteinbeckFans of East of EdenFans of wanting to know about an author's thought processes while writing a bookWhile writing East of Eden back in 1951, Steinbeck warmed up every morning by writing a letter to his editor Pascal (Pat) Covici*.
Since I adore East of Eden (my very favorite book from an author I absolutely love), it was fun to watch him build it and change things.
Journal of a Novel was edited and published posthumously.Steinbeck made some intriguing remarks about East of Eden, so I had to quickly hunt up a copy and reread it again.
I'm not over my disappointing reaction to East of Eden yet.
I didn't like this journal as much as the Grapes of Wrath--it's more contrived, obviously intended for an audience, it's not formatted as well, there are no pictures, and the notes are nowhere near as complete which gives the whole thing an obscure feel.
Even with all of that, I enjoyed parts of it, and I took note of a few areas which may help me when I re-read East of Eden, which I tentatively plan to do either in the next couple of months or sometime next year.
I never even knew it existed, but from the inside flap I have learned that Steinbeck, while writing East of Eden, kept a side by side journal - which often would warm-up his writing in the morning before starting in on the manuscript.
They are the "East of Eden Letters" written to his publisher and long-time friend Pascal Covici.
I am so relieved to see how he struggles to find structure to the art, from writing long sentences about the comfort of his chair and desk to the arduous decision-making process of what pencil to use.I am enthralled and captivated by this piece of literary history.
This is John Steinbeck’s journal while he wrote East of Eden. This taught me to try a “Warm-up” exercise before writing, the way Steinbeck did through his letters to a friend of his who passed away. Getting the hands to writing and the brain switched on probably made for better writing on his behalf. This also taught me that I should be disciplined in my writing, to write every day, even if nothing useful or good comes out of it, because even if I’m writing, I’m doing something good for myself and my craft.
Steinbeck wrote to his friend and editor every day as a warm-up to his daily work on East of Eden. The letters are wide ranging and not wholly focused on the novel, topics varying from his family, his insecurities, his immediate daily plans, thoughts on the novel, etc. It's very odd to see on a personal level his habits and quirks sort of come to life. Very interesting read, and I think especially so perhaps to writers as it touches here and there on that topic.
It was interesting to follow Steinbeck's writing process, especially after finishing East of Eden. However, it took awhile to get through because, as you would expect, there was no plot. I would only read five or ten pages at time. I recommend this only for die-hard Steinbeck fans and those interested in the writing process.
Steinbeck kept this joural while writing "East of Eden", which is hands down the best book I know. His masterpiece. The journal explains a lot, most importantly how personal the book was. He was writing it to keep from going nuts. The devil woman in the book and the two boys (Cain amd Abel) start making sense.
I read this just after finishing East of Eden and I found it provided nice closure to the novel. It gave nice insight to the process the author went through to write such an amazing piece of literature.
The is the companion to  East of Eden. It's the journal he kept while writing the novel and it's like being with Steinbeck through the process. Pretty cool!
People who do --or trying to-- write can dig this very much. Funny beyond words, yet so humane (with all that comes with it.)
All about what happens right before a writer starts to write. Fun to read if you're into that kind of thing.
