https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15567.The_Wishsong_of_Shannara
What is really surprising about this book is that Jair's plot line is much more interesting than Brin's despite the fact that he is supposedly much safer in his village.
His plot line also happened to take more than half of the book; he is thrust into practically non-stop action from the first pages - literally; while Brin's journey was relatively boring and filled with her self-doubt and attempts to double-guess Allanon.
Jair also meets all kinds of interesting characters along the way while Brin's first encounter with one takes place sometime after the first two thirds of the book.
I read the previous sequel in 6th grade.Remember imagining myself as Amberle and William Moseley as Wil.For some reason I was convinced the two of them would end up together and the fact they didn't crushed my little 12 year old heart.I took this book and tried reading it, but the moment I found out it was about Wil, his stupid new wife and kids, I threw it across the room.I mean, it's my Wil after all!It might the about time for me to pick up this book again.Let's see if I got over it.
The best of the original trilogy. Unpredictable, good characters and action all the way. Had me hooked from the start. If Brooks can just go back and edit out all of the "wordlessly's" "soundlessly's" and "abruptly's" and make the writing style a little less like a 10th grader then this book would have got 5*
#12/29 in my Epic Shannara Quest.The Druid Allanon shows up unexpectedly again in Shady Vale twenty years after the events of The Elfstones of Shannara with another dire prediction of evil plotting against the Four Lands.
But this time around, Brooks is more confident in his storytelling--the scene that seems ripped off from Tolkien is actually a rip off of a scene in Elfstones--and the story in Wishsong is his strongest yet.
Over all, this is a very enjoyable read.NOTE: Arguably, this is the most important book of the whole Shannara saga, as it introduces the wishsong--the ultimate form of magic the Ohmsford family is cursed with.
Every book after Wishsong chronologically references the events within.
Il druido Allanon, con il suo solito fare cospiratorio, è pronto a trascinare i due giovani protagonisti in mezzo al pericolo.Gli ingredienti classici di questa avventura fantasy ci sono tutti: due ragazzi che si ritrovano a dover affrontare un nemico sconosciuto, con una guida sapiente e un gruppo di sostenitori pronti a tutto per loro.
Brin e Jair non possono però dormire sonni tranquilli, perché per una volta sembra che Allanon abbia fatto male i suoi conti.
E’ un mix pericoloso da gestire, che potrebbe portare a risultati inaspettati.Brin sembra la brava ragazza, che riflette sempre prima di prendere qualsiasi decisione e si sente in dovere di compiere le scelte più difficili in quanto sorella maggiore.
Mr. Brooks' challenge: write a worthy follow-up to The Elfstones of Shannara.Challenge: met.The next generation of Ohmsfords produces their best fighter yet - the tough-as-nails Brin, who follows in her father's footsteps and goes on another epic quest to save the world.
This time, though, the forces of evil will come this close (picture my thumb and forefinger a millimeter apart) to corrupting her beyond repair, should they have her way.It's the end of the original Shannara trilogy, but not the end of this world, not by a long shot.
But I really hope that if MTV's Shannara Chronicles comes back for a second season, that they'll base it on this book.
Allanon, protector of the Races, has come to Brin.
Her magic, known as the wishsong, may be the only power that can help him destroy the Ildatch once and for all.
He leaves his home and the world he knows to find Brin and save her if he can.
Jair wants to help, even if it endangers himself.
He’s smart and caring.
He does care, but doesn’t want to show it.
I will say that this series does dwell on magic (dark magic and good magic) and such things like that.I really did love this book.
Tutto fumo e niente arrosto: tutti questi aggettivi hanno un devastante effetto soporifero (e allora si cominciano a contare la pagine che ci separano dall'agognata fine...).I personaggi rimangono privi di approfondimento e piatti, senza vita, senza forza.
La narrazione va avanti a forza di descrizioni poco evocative, "colpi di scena" (molti già visti in precedenza, ma presentati con condimento diverso) e introduzioni di personaggi/mostri più o meno significativi.A questo giro la parte del protagonista-oh-ma-quanti-problemi-mi-faccio tocca a Brin: visti i suoi pensieri catastrofici, nessuno può stupirsi di ciò che le accade alla fine...
Reseña -> http://thewordsofbooks.blogspot.com.e...La canción de Shannara, es un libro lleno de aventuras, peligros, acción, muertes dolorosas y magia, con una trama totalmente adictiva desde las primeras páginas. Sin duda, os lo recomiendo si os gustan los libros de fantasía épica con personajes decididos, fuertes, y valientes dispuestos a todo por cumplir su misión y evitar que la magia oscura triunfe.
The intertwining storylines add a complexity to the novel that changes it from a simple tale to an epic journey and the adventure of a lifetime.
Brooks takes his readers on an epic journey across a vivid world that comes to life as if you were looking at an interactive 3D map.
Not only does Brooks bring the story to life, he also brings some well-developed and unforgettable creatures & races to life.
I loved the close relationships between the characters here.
Brooks lets you know what each of his characters is thinking and feeling.
I appreciate how real and natural the characters are.
It is quite interesting how all Shannara books in Brook’s direction start in a same way. 1. Allanon “unexpectedly” comes to a village. 2. Allanon takes Jerle/Wil/Brin & Jair from the village on an adventure because only them have a special, unique power which will help the world to disentangle from the troubled spider web it has gotten itself into and slay a few demons along the way, solving various quests as they advance. 3. Allanon is Gandalf! Joke aside, apart from that predictable settin
2.	Allanon takes Jerle/Wil/Brin & Jair from the village on an adventure because only them have a special, unique power which will help the world to disentangle from the troubled spider web it has gotten itself into and slay a few demons along the way, solving various quests as they advance.
Joke aside, apart from that predictable setting which we all knew was coming if we read the previous two books, the adventure is once again gripping as we journey along with the protagonists, marvelling the landscapes and dreading the new enemies we know will be introduced.
You must leave with me immediately if we are to stop it.
Nonetheless, we must depart immediately or your family and home will be horribly destroyed within the week anyway.
I'm sorry but this is simply the state of things.AllanonYes, this book begins in a similar fashion to the first two Shannara books (and Lord of the Rings, and many other similar stories) but it is a worthy conclusion to the trilogy.
It definately stuck out in my mind as my favorite Terry Brooks book that I've read thus far.
Her journey was so touching and really believable (as weird as that may sound for a fantasy book!).
One of the most amazing things I find about this series is how much I find myself caring for the characers.
That may sound morbid, but believe me, his books are even more amazing because of this.I am really super hyped to start the next one now!
If you are a fantasy fan, this is not a series to be missed!
Para mi gusto, de las tres , la mejor con diferencia tanto por la trama como por los personajes . Para mi ha sido un broche espectacular, no esperaba que me fuera a gustar y ha superado las expectativas.
This is so awesome. it's on the same magnificent level as Lord of the rings. Terry Brooks is an awesome writer. This is fantasy at its best.
Actually, I'd probably read the first two and skip this one as it is not nearly on level with them.Brin Ohmsford and her brother Jair are greatly surprised when the mysterious and well known druid Allanon comes to their home to seek them out.
He just isn't consistent on how well done or original they are and I like to try to choose books to read that I'll enjoy.
Great fans of Brooks or the fantasy genre might appreciate this book, but most others probably will not.The Wishsong of ShannaraCopyright 1985504 pagesReview by M.
(view spoiler)[Even the death of Allanon felt a little...flat  (hide spoiler)] I frequently found myself rolling my eyes at Brin's ineptitude and would often pause in my reading aloud when she was in a sticky situation to make snide comments to my husband; usually along the lines of "If only she had some kind of magic wishsong that would help her out..." Four paragraphs later, after a useless internal monologue, Brin would catch up with the rest of us.
I liked Jair somewhat better but my favorite character had to be the rough and lovable Slanter.
I have to admit that I started reading Shannara when The Sword of Shannara came out in the late 70's.
Don't have a clue how many times I've read it since, and the same goes for both this one and The Elfstones of Shannara.
Because of that, I can't possibly give this book any less than 5 stars.
While the first book is a bit like the Tolkein books, the second and third books move off into their own world and leave the Lord of the Rings far behind going its own way.
Unfortunately, my review of this book boils down to: "This is one of my favorite series, and I really enjoy reading/listening to it.".
Omshford verso l'Ildatch. Dignitosa chiusura della celeberrima trilogia culto degli anni '90.Assodato che l'introspezione e la profondità dei contenuti appartengano ad altri autori all'interno del genere stesso (Martin ed Erikson, per fare due nomi a caso), va riconosciuto a Brooks un'innegabile capacità di orchestrare letture page-turner dall'indubbio ritmo e con quei confortanti cliché di genere che, tutto sommato, si lasciano leggere con piacere.
We are introduced to Brin and Jair Ohmsford, the daughter and son of Wil and Eretria, the main protagonists from the last book 'The Elfstones of Shannara'.
As they leave, with Brin's long time friend Rone Leah (great-grandson of Menion Leah who was featured in the first novel 'The Sword of Shannara'), Jair finds himself being hunted by a gnome tracker.
It is a long and arduous journey, both Brin and Jair meeting new people who join them in their quests.
From around a quarter and most of the middle of the book is actually telling us of Jair's journey.
Thanks 😀The Author: Terry BrooksTerry Brooks is an US-American Fantasy-Author who published his first book, The Shannara-Chronicles: The Sword of Shannara, in 1977.
In any case, my personal highlight was that Wil and Eretria were mentioned again and that Terry Brooks continued to travel with Ohmsford characters.Hardly anyone was unsympathetic, only I just wasn’t able to become friends with them, as they (as already mentioned in the paragraph above) had little depth and seemed very superficial to me.Writing StyleWhy are the characters most often called or described either by their origin or their race?
Brooks is not nearly as good a writer as writer as Tolkien (who is?); but his narrative is simpler and more straightforward, making it accessible to those who are new to high fantasy.
It's a good gateway into this genre.I enjoyed this trilogy enough to complete it, but not enough to read any more books that Brooks has set in this universe.
My personal favorite in Brooks' original trilogy, Wishsong shows an evolution in the authors writing.
After reading some reviews on this site I was shocked to find just how many people thought that this book did not live up to Swords of Elfstones, or that Brin and Jair were boring characters.
Plotwise, I felt that Wishsong was deeper than Elfstones and Swords.
Swords used a very,very commonly used plot which Brooks attempted to change with interesting characters.
Elfstones showed Brooks' first steps away from that comfortable go-to plot as he developed his personal mythos.
Won't you grandfather?" Cogline shuffles his sandaled feet uneasily and nodded without looking at the Valegirl.
"Won't miss all that crying and agonizing, though.
Won't miss that.
Course, we did have some fine adventures, girl- I'll miss you for that."Thus Terry Brooks does me the kindness of summing up my feelings on his Shannara Trilogy.
Which is why I like the third book the best of these, there are a couple of characters which the reader can really identify with (see Cogline, above).
Ultimately, these are fun adventures but the the writing style makes them a bit tedious for an adult.
Once again, it is Allanon who comes for Brin, asking her to travel to the living forest of the Maelmord and destroy the Ildatch, the book of dark magic that has been the teacher of all the dark things threatening the world.
Jair should have the easier task, left behind in the Vale to warn his parents, but when the dark Wraiths come looking, he finds himself caught up in the self same Quest.
But he learns that Allanon has been fooled and only he will be able to save Brin as she struggles to destroy the dark magic.Another great story.
Read in middle school. This was one of the first fantasy series I ever read and probably the one that got me onto an epic fantasy kick.
I can't remember the last time it took me so long to get through a book I voluntarily read.
This one didn't have any improvements over the second one and by now, after two novels, I was soooo done and fed up with Brooks' writing that I practically had to force myself to keep reading at times.
The other 10% I cared about just a little bit and there was even one where I was glad to see the character go as I had begun to hate it by now.Suffice it to say that I shan't be getting anymore Brooks books.
I know that this is a lot of people's favourite book in the original Shannara trilogy, but I just didn't enjoy it as much as the previous book.
It gets super predictable, unfortunately.I know that Brooks is a better writer than these books let on and I think I might move on to read more of his later Shannara books, where the writing is better and I can care bout the characters and their problems.
I maintain faith in Brooks because of the Genesis of Shannara series.
It took me half a month to finish the book.
Usually it takes me 5 days to finish the book of this size, but something kept popping up along the way, demanding my attention.
Now, when it is finished I must say that this is the weakest book in the original trilogy, and this is a pity, because I really liked the Sword of Shannara and the Elfstones of Shannara so much.
I really hate to give this book 3 stars, and I would give it 2 if it weren't of Shannara cycle.
These continue to be worth listening to, but Brooks also continues to use language in a way that irks me on a regular basis. Torches lighting "impenetrable darkness." Deafeningly silent screams... I wish Brooks just let the setting and events (which are good enough all on their own) speak for themselves rather than resorting to overblown language that diminishes rather than empowers the text. Otherwise, this is the definition of classic fantasy. Reluctant heroes, valiant protectors, companions from disparate backgrounds convening to accomplish a task. Still worth reading, after all these years.
