https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32572166-the-rules-do-not-apply
Hmm. The writing on a sentence level is exquisite. Levy's vocabulary is just superb. This is an interesting book. Levy demonstrates self awareness and is willing to put herself on the page in uncomfortable but compelling ways. The end of the book is a mess. The last few chapters are just baffling given the strength of what precedes them. There is also this awkward strain of unexamined white girl privilege throughout. Now, is such examination mandatory? Of course not. But whew. The lack of it is pronounced. Still enjoyed this. The writing is just that good.
Yet one can not have everything, all choices have trade offs, and waiting so long to get pregnant meant Ariel eventually ended up having no children.
This was only one of the many choices that lead to the implosion of the life she had created with her spouse Lucy, trade offs that eventually did not sustain the relationship, like Ariel's denial about Lucy's drinking.
Also it just didn't feel like things fit together, she writes about her childhood and meeting Lucy and her mentor but for some reason I wasn't sure what I was supposed to understand when I put all of that together.
And like in a novel, she starts with telling us that a big terrible thing happened to her, and then she doesn’t tell us exactly what it was until way later in the story.
(The big terrible thing is that she lost her child, her spouse, and her house—no spoiler here; she tells us this within the first few pages.) So the whole time, I was on pins and needles, wondering how she ended up with all the important things in her life gone.
It also shows that bad things and real pain happen whether you’ve had a good, easy life or not.Levy is a journalist.
I was sure I had read at the beginning of Levy’s story that she had lost her husband.
I didn’t know anything about Ariel Levy – who is a writer with The New Yorker -- but the description of her memoir sounded interesting.
Well, it turns out that I would probably be happy to read anything by Levy and I need to look for some of her other writings.
Her memoir deals with terrible personal losses she suffered a few years ago.
A few years ago, life knocked her down, taught her that no one is immune to loss – it turns out some of life’s inevitabilities do apply to everyone.
The story of the miscarriage is heartbreaking, along with her grief when she later lost her spouse, Lucy."For the first time I can remember, I cannot locate my competent self — one more missing person.
My sorrow is so intense it often feels like it will flatten me."The first part of this book is the strongest, and I enjoyed reading how Levy became a writer and reporter.
I'll be fine if I never again read another awful miscarriage scene.I generally enjoy memoirs, and in the end, I'm glad I read this and I will remember Levy's story for a while.
I don't hate the author for sharing what she has suffered; I hate that Ariel Levy chose to universalize her experience as representative of ALL women, and then blame the vagaries of life on feminism.
In reality, Ms. Levy doesn't know WHERE "those women" are from -- and I have a big news flash for the author -- field workers can be U.S. citizens, born and raised on American soil.
I have talked about my enjoyment of memoirs elsewhere so it is safe to say that it is a type of book I gravitate to and read a lot of.Ariel Levy’s memoir is a memoir about loss: the loss of her child, her spouse, and her house.
So far, there are plenty o similarities to any number of brilliant memoirs I have read in the last few years, but there is a crucial difference, I think: Ariel Levy does not apologize for the person she is, with all her flaws and edges.
Levy was allowed to grow up thinking that sexuality was not always obvious; that one might, in fact, be in love or lust with someone not one’s spouse.
I think I may have convinced myself that gay and trans love and sex was like straight love and sex, only with different partners, but listening to Levy makes me reassess.
The exact way she describes how we discover alcoholism in someone close to us, how it feels new, constantly surprising, and always denied made me feel foolish for having been taken in so many times, just like that.
I'm very impressed with the author's writing skills and empathize with the grief she felt over her miscarriage and her spouse's alcoholism.
The scene in Mongolia when she miscarries is heartbreaking, and of course the loss is horrific--I guess I just felt like it was horrific enough on its own terms without her needing to dramatize it.
I felt like she had an opportunity to broaden the scope and speak to the more universal aspects of her experiences, but I guess it's too raw and too personal for her to go there yet.I really did enjoy this book and my heart goes out to Levy--I hope she finds what she's looking for and manages to get everything she wants out of life.
I rarely sit down with a book only to look up hours later and realize I've consumed it in its entirety. Such was the case with The Rules Do Not Apply! It was recommended on a Podcast, and I knew nothing else going into it besides the fact that it was a memoir. Though achingly depressing, and self-deprecating, it's a beautifully written book, full of honesty, hope, humor and self-awareness. I procrastinated in filing my taxes, so I finished the last pages of it in the waiting room of a Jackson H
I rarely sit down with a book only to look up hours later and realize I've consumed it in its entirety.
Sometimes I worry that I'm not in the right place in my life to read about other people's grief, but I'm realizing that I don't always give myself or authors enough credit.
Reading about how others cope with their situations is so cathartic.
Levy has challenged me to stop being a whimp and pull other acclaimed grief memoirs off my shelf, like The Still Point of the Turning World and An Exact Replica of a Figment of My Imagination.
I had read such mixed reviews of this one that I almost didn't read it, but I'm glad I did.
Where other people saw an unlikable writer, I only saw honesty, about relationships, deciding what kind of life you are going to have, etc.
We want a mate who feels like family and a lover who is exotic, surprising.
We want to be youthful adventurers and middle-aged mothers.
We want intimacy and autonomy, safety and stimulation, reassurance and novelty, coziness and thrills.
I appreciated knowing that going into it.Thanks to the publisher for providing a copy through NetGalley.
One hell of a memoir - visceral and beautifully written. I disliked her intensely for most of the book but that matters not a whit. I admire her unflinching candor. This is one I won't soon forget.
2.5*I won this book in a giveaway and was really pumped to read it. Memoirs are hard to rate, I don't want to come off as judging the author personally. Ariel is good at writing without a doubt, but her storytelling was all over the place to me, especially at the beginning. What happened to her was tragic and traumatizing, and those chapters were heartbreaking. But otherwise everything else felt superficial and lacking depth. I wanted more from her personally and a cohesiveness that flowed.
This memoir felt a little short, but perhaps that means we'll get another one from her before too long.My only complaint about this book is one I've applied to other books in the past: (view spoiler)[It ends with her finding a man.
Life continues on and there is no point at which we tie everything up in a neat bow, so please, writers of memoir, consider finding some other way to end your book that recognizes this.Still, I understand that this particular pet peeve may be mine alone, and in an objective sense it certainly doesn't detract from the overall appeal and merit of The Rules Do Not Apply.
I also felt parts of the book were skittish and randomly placed, making me question 1) why they were included and 2) the decision re: their placement within the book.
Everyone makes poor decisions at some point(s) in life but it was hard for me to feel bad for "some" of the outcomes resulting from Levy's poor choices.
And for clarity, I'm not saying all the bad things that happened to her in the book were the result of her poor choices.Levy is a talented writer - Just not sure I feel this book is worth the significant hype/praise I noticed prior to reading it myself.
WARNING: Highly Opinionated Review to FollowIn my sixty years, I've learned a little about people.
Not a lot, mind you, but a little.
I can now separate people into two categories: Drama Queens (male and female, against all stereotypes) and Those Who Prefer Peace and Quiet.
I'm afraid I fall into the later category, and, as a result, I tend to regard DQs (quite judgmentally, I'm sad to say) as people who bring their troubles on themselves: You can't seem to have those extraordinary highs without having resultant extraordinary lows.
But the content...the passive/aggressive whiny perpetual dissatisfaction with her life I found frustrating."I was making rules, and changing them, and not always following them myself."Life is a mix of the choices you make, and the cards that you are dealt.
More likely, there are different levels of contentment.The sense I had from this book is of someone who is constantly in a state of flux, always questioning where she is in life, always wanting something more, something different.
The Rules Don't Apply is an autobiography of Ariel Levy and the circumstances leading up to her losing her child, spouse, and home within a month time span and the choices she made prior to, that led up to her devastation.
Ariel Levy novel I think can be best described by this quote:“I wanted what we all want: everything.
Although not everyone experiences devastation at the level Ariel Levy has, she uses her tragedy to relay to us the universal message that part of growing up is accepting the falls and disappointments that come with life.
In fact, the book’s main strength is her writing so eloquently about grief (no spoiler: she lost a baby at 19 week’s gestation while traveling in Mongolia for work).
The chapters on the loss and her overwhelming grief were the book’s strongest chapters.The title refers to the author’s rather charmed privileged life of reaching her mid-30’s with nothing bad happening to her.
anything seemed possible if you had ingenuity, money, and tenacity."I’m sorry Ms. Levy lost her baby.
She mentions very early in the book about losing her baby, her spouse and her house in what I thought might have been a devastating accident or other horrific event.
Ariel Levy has a compulsion for adventure, drawn to untraditional relationships and the need to become “the kind of woman who is free to do whatever she chooses.” She was a writer, following stories of powerful women around the world, and during this time she also experienced much drama and trauma.At 5 months pregnant Ariel agreed to take a business trip to Mongolia, a choice she later regrets.
A month later, none of that was true.
Instead, i was thirty-eight, childless, alone, emotionally and monetarily unprepared to be a single mother.” Grief and sadness expressed so eloquently in this memoir yet Ariel Levy writes with a sense of hope and trust in nature.
It's billed as a memoir, but  The Rules Do Not Apply  feels more like an exploration of grief, an attempt to make sense of tragedy and loss.
Levy doesn't pull any punches - she hits you right in the gut, baring her wounds in such raw fashion that the reader feels the knife.
I'm glad I plodded through, though, because it reminded me that while no one can truly share in the grief of a mourning mother, we truly aren't alone.
Miscarriage and infant loss has always been a taboo subject, perhaps because humans want to avoid a topic that brings about feelings of profound despair.
Sometimes, her travels took her just subway stops away, but worlds apart from her day to day life - like the time she wrote an article for New York Magazine about a nightclub for obese women in Queens, New York.Ms. Levy "lived in a world where we had control over so much".
She put her biological clock on hold knowing that the wonders of modern fertility would be waiting for her when she was ready.It is just when the author becomes comfortable in her marriage, her life, and her accomplishments that she realizes that life can kick you in the ass and "you control nothing".
I did not know who Ariel Levy was to be honest.
I saw the book marked "to be read" off and on on my GR updates feed and went to Netgalley to see if it was available but it was not.
I requested it (as a wish) and really did not know what I was in for.What a life this woman has led.
But, it's an amazing story and she can certainly write.
I have not read anything else by Levy.
Thank you NetGalley and the publisher, Deckle Edge, for an opportunity to read this incredible story.
"All of my conjuring had led to only ruin and death. Now I was a wounded witch, wailing in the forest, undone."The writing is good, though sometimes too melodramatic for me (see above). At times it seemed disingenuous and lacked real emotion. For me to connect with a memoirist, I have to like him/her. I failed to connect with Levy. That said, she went through a loss I cannot even fathom and I hope getting it on paper has helped her cope.
The author does her own performance on the audiobook, adding another layer of intimacy to her story.Ariel Levy recounts her troubled marriage, her wife's alcoholism, her own cheating, and all the twists and turns leading up to her fertility treatments and subsequent miscarriage, all with such candor that it often sucked the breath right out of me.
She's frank about the scope of her grief after her miscarriage (which many people told her was disproportionate), what it's like to be partnered with an alcoholic, and her own compulsion to have an affair.
It is a memoir about a particularly difficult time in the author's life, in which she has a truly horrific miscarriage, endures the collapse of her marriage, and suffers some economic insecurity.
(That's not a spoiler, by the way--it's right on the jacket flap.)I will start with the positive and point out that Levy is a really good writer, and this is the book's greatest strength.
Ariel seems intensely uncomfortable with the transgender thing (something that was also apparent in her first book), and furthermore her lover is overly stalkerish and possessive (why they broke up the first time around), so why is she even with this person?
I found "Rules Do Not Apply" moving and relatable.
Her adventures with motherhood were touching but at the end of this shortmemoir I wanted to know how it all turns out but since she's probably in here army forties and can be forgiven for the cliffhanger since she's yet to live the rest of her life.Rules is very well written, has an offbeat sense of humor, and is engaging.Thanks to the publishers for providing an e-copy.
The writing, or the person's life?
Ariel Levy's writing is bold, raw and purposely in your face, which is good for magazines and books to grab you by the throat.
A memoir, most, should grab you by the heart for better or worse., but Levy's also grabs your conscience.
Almost everything she said about Lucy was implied as an inconvenience to Ariel.
Maybe Lucy felt ostracized, maybe she needed your love and help.
I feel compassion for you both, but Ariel you need to develop some compassion for others.Writing 4.0 Story 3.5 Ending 2.5 Thank you Netgalley for granting my wish!
Levy's writing is a pleasure to read. She shares some very difficult things with a gracefully unapologetic candor that sucked me right in. I had some problems with it, but overall it was a lovely read.
Back in the day, I was a fan of Levy’s first book, Female Chauvinist Pigs, about women and the rise of raunch culture. So I was thrilled to get my hands on an advance copy of her memoir, about a woman who wants it all—lifelong companionship, fantastic sex, a child of her own, and a successful journalism career—only to learn, upon losing it all, that you can’t control most things in life. It was a powerful read for a neurotic control freak like myself.–Steph Auterifrom The Best Books We Read In January 2017: http://bookriot.com/2017/02/01/riot-r...
