https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7507825-at-home
A history of domestic life could just as easily been organised chronologically, for example.
Using a tangible concept allows Bryson to create easily-visualised conceptual spaces from which to launch his explorations, allowing him ramble freely across history, linguistics and science without losing us.
And stretching it a little further, it's not so different from Foursquare, which also transforms our everyday places into part of a broader narrative (in the case of Foursquare, a social narrative, in Bryson or Dan Brown's case, an historical narrative).
The things that were a thing back in the day boggles my mind Even though sugar was very expensive, people consumed it till their teeth turned black, and if their teeth didn't turn black naturally, they blackened them artificially to show how wealthy and marvelously self-indulgent they were. Bill Bryson goes from room to room in an ordinary house and asks questions. Questions that have never (and will never) think to ask. Why do we have four walls? How did doorways get invented? When did people s
Even though sugar was very expensive, people consumed it till their teeth turned black, and if their teeth didn't turn black naturally, they blackened them artificially to show how wealthy and marvelously self-indulgent they were.
Bill Bryson goes from room to room in an ordinary house and asks questions.
Where do dining tables originate?
The dining table was a plain board called by that name.
Over time, the word board came to signify not just the dining surface but the meal itself, which is where the board comes from in room and board.
It's just fascinating - so, so many unasked questions and fabulously researched answers.
All my unasked questions are now answered.
If Bill Bryson and Sarah Vowell wrote all the history texts, and Mary Roach wrote all the science texts, our society would be more educated and amused than anywhere on earth.
I want to say that this book was a greatly informative text on the history of sanitation, architecture, anglo-saxon culture, farming, growth of cities, and society in general, but I'm afraid that would put you off.
He is even a good reader-the audiobook is narrated by him and is often laugh out loud funny.
Reading the book is laugh out loud funny too.
Let me preface this review by saying that, yes, I am a fan of Bill Bryson and I love history books.At Home is not Bryson's best work.
Its loosely-organized premise (a room-by-room history of everyday life and everyday objects) feels overly-contrived and, in practice, makes for a rather clumsy and wandering book.
Though it's also likely no publisher would publish a book like this if not for Bill Bryson.)If you've not read Bryson before, don't let this book be your first.
Start instead with one of his many travel-essay books or his childhood memoir, The Life and Times of the Thunderbolt Kid. He's much better there.
If we went to his home - an English parsonage built in 1851 - for dinner we would, of course, talk about the house, but like all really great conversation the talk would ramble off in every direction with stories that had nothing to do with this particular house or houses in general for that matter only to touch base again and ramble of in another direction.
That a discussion of English parsonages could cover the building of the Erie canal and the use of children in coal mines is not something usually found in history books - but can be found in a great dinner conversation.
For example, during the chapter on the bathroom he discusses various cholera epidemics in England and who figured out that contaminated water was the problem, which is a subject I'm familiar with having read the excellent book "The Ghost Map." So I waited patiently for Bryson to summarize the cholera info, and very soon he was on to discussing how London's sewer system was developed.
Bryson brings us another fascinating tome filled with delightful trivia and anecdotes in this history of housing in Britain.
With an open hearth in the middle and members of the family (this included slaves and servants since the one large room made everyone party of the unit) congregating around it, little was private and everyone shared in the heat (or lack thereof.) The invention of the chimney and fireplace (in the early 14th century) changed all that.
Now private spaces could be created including an upstairs and separate rooms from which lesser members of the unit could be excluded.
Reading this book is rather like having a trivia buff give you a sixteen-hour, cocaine-fueled tour of his house. It is exhilarating, exhausting, and often alarming.
But hey, it was still good!In At Home: A Short History of Private Life Bill Bryson, that transient American-Brit, is in England for this look at the house, that thing humans use to keep the rain off their heads.
Using the house he bought in the Norfolk area of England (northeast of London), Bryson takes us for a lengthy and meandering tour of each room of the standard home from the cellar to the attic.
The thing is, I REALLY enjoyed the other books of his I've read so far and this one lacks the joy and exuberance of the others.
But I must confess I had little time to notice the features of the domicile in particular, as Bill was filling my head with an absolute avalanche of trivia connected with domestic life in Britain and the United States of America.After giving me a general background on the era on which he was going to hang his exposition of domesticity (the Victorian Age, with the 1851 Great Exhibition as its pivot) and the development of English clergy in general, Bill Bryson properly got going on how the British forgot all about the civilised Roman Era and started from scratch once they left England.
Wouldn’t you love to have the time to think to yourself, ‘gosh, I wonder how houses first came to be as they are’ – and then to spend, I don’t know, a year?
Which really must be one of the great benefits of books.I think we don’t actually read just to know we are not alone – we read to spend time with people being at their best behaviour and trying hard to be at their most interesting.
If you have experienced the pleasures of some of his travel books, you will recognize his method of using an experience in the present as a launching pad for circles of digression down many fascinating paths before returning with amazing insights into the curious behaviors and marvelous accomplishments of human creativity.
The kaleiodoscope of the reading experience makes for a fascinating ride that doesn’t always cohere to a logical.
The book is essentially a history of domestic life in Britain and America--its comforts and discomforts, and the inventions along the way that made things easier and cleaner.
If he'd dropped the theme, the book could have been organized a lot more sensibly.Several of the chapters could be named Architecture, More Architecture, and Still More Architecture.
I like to look at architecture, but it numbs my brain to read about it.The chapter called The Passage should be entitled VERMIN!
GROSS!If you like history and don't mind "editing" as you go along (i.e. scan past the boring stuff), you can learn a lot from this book.
“It is always quietly thrilling to find yourself looking at a world you know well but have never seen from such an angle before.” ― Bill Bryson, At Home: A Short History of Private LifeBryson uses his own family's Victorian parsonage to map out the history (mainly focused on the 18th - 20th Century) of the private life.
There is rarely a Bryson book that I hasn't made me laugh verbally while reading and filled me with a sort of awe at his ease at relaying interesting trivia and making you look at a place (his travelogues are amazing), a time, or a people in a different way.
This book has lots of interesting factoids but these are buried under many pages-long avalanches of words about "unfairly neglected" minor personages of history.
Others surely find all the meandering anecdotes entertaining and that's fine, but then the book should be titled something like "shooting the breeze with Bill Bryson; a rather long history of inconsequential trivia." I liked the premise of the book and was hoping for something that stuck with it and got to the point a bit more often.
Tremendously interesting history book for people with ADD and butterfly minds. It's as if someone had taken an encyclopedia and very cleverly joined all the entries so it looked like a proper book. Oh, it was a proper book! Well then, very clever.
For Bill Bryson, this is poor: What could have a fascinating, amusing and insightful social history turns out to be a meandering series of not very interesting or particularly entertaining passages on the vague subject of the 'home' and 'private life'. The whole book unfortunately just feels poorly edited, unfocussed and directionless.As a fan of Bill Bryson's books, this one came as a somewhat of a disappointment. Having now read his subsequent books - it is good to know that he is once again (for the most part) back on form.This one is for completists only.
They are where history ends up.”Bill Bryson and his family live in a Victorian parsonage in a part of England where nothing of any great significance has happened since the Romans decamped.
To remedy this, he formed the idea of journeying about his house from room to room to “write a history of the world without leaving home.” The bathroom provides the occasion for a history of hygiene; the bedroom, sex, death, and sleep; the kitchen, nutrition and the spice trade; and so on, as Bryson shows how each has figured in the evolution of private life.
Whatever happens in the world, he demonstrates, ends up in our house, in the paint and the pipes and the pillows and every item of furniture.Everything AND the kitchen sink in this one.
HIS trip to Australia - In a Sunburned Country, HIS hike on the Appalachian Trail - A Walk in the Woods: Rediscovering America on the Appalachian Trail, HIS childhood in Iowa - The Life and Times of the Thunderbolt Kid. This book seemed mostly like a list of facts.Then around chapter five, The Scullery and Larder, while I was learning about servants and the running of massive estates - one house had 600 copper pots and pans!
I really love Bill Bryson...entertaining, enlightening, and an all around good read. I'm now driving my wife crazy by bringing up little "tid-bit" facts that I learned from this book. Full review shortly but I wanted to at least move this off my "reading" to the "done" state.
I read this book against my better judgement, and indeed my judgement was right.
Having read A Walk in the Woods by the same author, my daughter's mother-in-law, though I was quite open about not liking it, thought I'd like this one.And I do like this kind of book...one that wanders around history making unexpected connections and has little asides of coincidence.
If you don't believe he's full of himself and his stilted writing style full of double negatives and passive sentences don't mark him as a fine intellect, his numerous parenthetical comments, underlining his own self-defined cleverness and the foolhardy-ness of the rest of the world should convince you.Jeeze.There are some fine books in this genre....but this isn't one of them.
Ooh, yes please.
This is juuust the kind of thing I like.
It reminds me of trying to organize a closet, where one thing leads to something else, and something else, and something else until you find yourself in the middle of re-installing a light fixture and you look over and the closet is in a mess all over the floor...anyway where was I?Yeah, anyway, it's actually much better organized than I make it sound, and somehow manages to be organized chronologically AND spatially AND at the same time charming, and on practically every page you go "huh!
I didn't know that!"Warning: the "Bedroom" and "Nursery" chapters are not for the faint of heart.
In At Home, he traces the development of human domestic living from its often unexpected origins to the taken-for-granted, gadget-filled dwellings we now live in.This is my first book of Bryson's, but I will definitely be reading more.
I also came away from this book being exceedingly grateful that I live in the century that I do and not in, say, pre-sewer system 19th century London.
While Bryson's discussion of certain aspects of our attempts to develop civilized living is not always pleasant, the majority of the book is both educating and entertaining, and well recommended.
The book is well written and I enjoyed it, but it's a little disjointed and the subtitle is misleading. It's not about the history of private life, of how people lived, but a history of the materials that make up the house and the general way certain society in general viewed varying aspects of domesticity. Very little of the idea of private life (how the concept started, flourished and became what it is today) is touched upon. Still, this is a good book with interesting historical details and I'm glad to have read it.
I really enjoyed this volume which provides amazing, jaw-dropping, at times very funny anecdotes of how day-to-day life at home grew to what it is today, and the key dates, figures and time periods that became definitive.Bryson uses his own home, a former parsonage in England where he lives, as a base for a study of how domestic life grew and changed from the last two centuries to modern times.
It made me grateful, as no other chapter did, that I live in the 21st century...each room contains an infinite number of opportunities to explore how life at home changed and the very concept of being comfortable came into being.
In fact, this is the first book I ever took notes for, it was simply too dense, too resplendent with facts and information...although notably unlike a textbook.
Not a grumpy old man so much as an intelligent inquiring mind, amazed and delighted by the world's idiosyncrasies, which is actually how you might feel after reading this book.
And in fact a reader does learn, tons of information, some alarming, some odd, all fascinating, with a great anecdotal quality to them, which is partially while I took notes.
I'd recommend this book to anyone, any inquiring mind, any armchair historian, it's seriously great and, greatly, not all that serious in tone.
This is pretty fascinating and I generally like Bill Bryson, but the book is heavily concentrated on the fascinating discoveries/inventions/accomplishments of men. Women are only mentioned for the silly things they did as the wives of these men or for writing silly books Bryson describes as "unreadable then and probably unreadable now." Apparently in all his exhaustive research on the history of private life, Bryson found no significant contributions by women.
This is a very informative book about everyday furnishings in and around people's homes and how they evolved over the centuries. Bryson mentions that one huge English mansion had a room devoted entirely to cleaning bedpans.
I've always thought that if Bill Bryson wrote the history and English textbooks for schools, everyone would do their required reading and come away bursting with information and insights.
No one presents history with as much humor, accessibility and curiosity as Bryson.
(And if there is someone who does, I need to know who it is!) And since we all live in homes of some kind, I'm sure everyone will find something of interest in this book.
3 stars - It was good.Instead of reading this one from cover to cover, I think it would have been a more enjoyable experience if read one chapter at a time, intermittently, while reading other books.
It was a bit more dry and straight forward than A Walk in the Woods: Rediscovering America on the Appalachian Trail, but Bryson still made it light and funny with his delightfully witty sense of humor.-------------------------------------------Favorite Quote: Columbus's real achievement was managing to cross the ocean successfully in both directions.
