https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/804498.Don_Rodriguez
★★★"But to you I leave my long, most flexible, ancient Castilian blade, which infidels dreaded if old songs be true. Merry and lithe it is, and its true temper singeth when it meets another blade as two friends sing when met after many years. It is most subtle, nimble, and exultant, and what it will not win for you in the wars, that shall be won for you by your mandolin, for you have a way with it that goes well with the old airs of Spain. And choose, my son, rather a moonlight night when you si
And for a moment Rodriguez feared that Morāno would see those passes in which he trusted foiled by that unknown sword, and then he reflected that Morāno knew nothing of the craft of the rapier, and with more content at that thought he parried thrusts that were strange to him.
Όπως συμβαίνει σε μεγάλο μέρος της φανταστικής λογοτεχνίας ο ήρωας και ο σαντσοειδής υπηρέτης του θα περάσει από αρκετούς κινδύνους με επιτυχία (αλλιώς το βιβλίο θα ήταν αρκετά μικρότερο), θα ερωτευτεί την Σεραφίνα και τελικά θα αποκτήσει έναν πύργο χάρη στην επέμβαση ενός ρομπενοειδή από μηχανής θεού.Στα θετικά το χιούμορ με το οποίο ο ίδιος ο συγγραφέας αντιμετωπίζει τον ήρωά του, την ιστορία και την συγγραφική του ιδιότητα.
Επιπλέον ο ειρωνικός βερμπαλισμός του που ενώ αρχικά μπορεί να ειπωθεί ότι σατιρίζει τον βερμπαλισμό της λογοτεχνίας του 18ου αιώνα και πριν, τελικά καταντά κουραστικός και σε αποξενώνει από την αφήγηση.
As might a child, after dashing off to play on a bright summer morning—hours splashing in the river, exploring the forests, duelling with sticks against the Infidel (or the child next door if the Infidel be not available), winning a week's pocket-money at marbles and losing it again—as such a child, when asked "what did you do today?" simply shrugs and replies "oh, nothing much"; just so should I feel, dear Reader, were I to attempt to pin down the precise qualities of this book for you.
And yet I must make the attempt.I can say this much: this is a book to be approached lightly.
Not possible, you say.
This was a different story compared to everything else I read by Lord Dunsany.
The prose was at times brilliant, beautiful use of words, language but the story was very simple about the adventures of the young naive Knight Rodriguez whose quest in the story is looking for romantic wars,glory and to win castle in Golden age Spain.
It was clear to see what the writer thought about the knight and his chivalrous ways.
The last chapters story wise was much better.His prose style and his way with words was more interesting than the actual story.
There were still flashes of Dunsany's brilliance, an occaisional turn of phrase that made me chuckle or left me in awe of its beauty.Other quirky aspects were frequent, inexplicable and entirely unnecessary remarks of the narrator directed straight at the reader.
Some of the dialogue of the characters left me feeling a little uncomfortable from a politically correct stand point (and believe me, I'm usually quite tolerant of this sort of thing in older authors).Overall I would say that while this story still holds some of that Dunsany magic, I would not recommend it to anyone other than die-hard fans.
"Don Rodriguez: Chronicles of Shadow Valley conveys its young disinherited protagonist through a fantasized Spain, gifting him with a Sancho Panza companion, good luck with magicians, and a castle" -- The Encyclopedia of Fantasy.Lord Dunsany's first novel, this is a historic fantasy set in a pastoral Spain that could never exist with all the charm and innocence that the author attributes to it.
He finds a lady he loves, wins his castle in a fantastic manner and they "live happily ever after."The beauty of the story is in Dunsany's prose which is a delight to read and well-suited to the fantastic setting he creates.
Taking place in Spain somewhere around 1500, we follow young Rodrigeuz in his journey to earn a castle in war with the help of his Castillan family sword and a mandolin.
While there are always hints and facts that show that the world is our own, with all its grimdark "glory", the narrator always portrays everything through the young and hopeful eyes of the idealist Rodrigeuz.
This comes out as a finely woven fairy tale with a happy ending.
It was a very good tale, with many memorable scenes and a rare overall quality.
Imagine if Don Quixote actually got to live a grand romance, with his trusty, comical manservant and won his fair lady for this story. This is probably what Don Quixote imagined for himself when he set out on his adventures. There's some humor with the sidekick but it's done straight. It's a bit toodense for something that should have a whimsical treatment, but some might enjoy its richness.
Por si quedaban dudas, Tolkien y Lovecraft le deben mucho a Dunsany, que mezcla a Don Quijote con las 1001 Noches en este libro. Es aventura pura, dura y simple, con una prosa que puede ser densa o hermosa, según quien la lea.
In alcune parti davvero memorabile, un po' Lovecraft, un po' cappa e spada, un po' Don Chisciotte, un po' tipicamente "dunsaniano".
L'episodio dello Schiavo di Orione mi ha ricordato tantissimo Star Maker di Olaf Stapledon, veramente molto suggestivo!Altre parti però convincono un po' meno e la fine è un po' scontata.
Fosse terminato con la nona cronaca gli avrei dato cinque stelle.
La narrazione è vecchio stile in certi punti: il narratore non esita a rivolgersi direttamente al lettore e a volte taglia corto alcune descrizioni con la scusa che "la sua arte è troppo misera per rendere adeguatamente l'idea".
It tells us of the travels of Don Rodriguez, who is searching for a war on the other side of the Pyrenees, to gain himself a castle.
The King is the keeper of a great forest, with supernatural powers, and after Rodriguez disappointing return from the war, he and his bowmen build him a magnificent castle, where he lives the rest of his life with his beloved Serafina.
The war is interesting, it is somewhat small scale, and Rodriguez joins the site that appreciates his mandolin play, because they are obviously the right side.
I love the odd palimpsest quality of the writing, Lord Dunsany is writing in a purposefully archaic style to echo the "Golden Age of Spain" setting, but even those moments where his "modern" viewpoint peeks through are now nearly 100 years old, giving several stylistic layers for the reader to parse.
Overall just a lovely and smooth reading experience, transports you to another world of adventure and hijinks but never fully loses a modern point of view that inevitably colors the tale with a palpable sense of nostalgia, loss, mortality, and regret.
3.5 stars more like.
Lord Dunsany's first novel isn't as elegant in style as King of Elfland's Daughter, though it does have some great lines.
There's also the repeated observations that to do such and such a scene justice, the writing would have to get really florid, and readers don't like that these days so ...
(I keep wondering if that's a commentary on Dunsany's own work, or readers' reactions).
Decidedly different from Dunsany's other works, and not up to his best, but worth reading if you like his fiction.
This book can only be described as amazing.
They just don’t write them like this anymore.
This book encompasses the fantastic, with some curious narrative asides and flowery prose that suits the mood and timbre of the book.
Whenever this story takes place it is in a world that is almost familiar but that is just beyond what we can usually see.
Wait for twilight, look past the shadows and through the blue light of the fading day and listen with your heart, then you will be able to find the land Don Rodriguez travels.
The reason I gave this such a low rating could be that I had to read this in a less than ideal format (on-line at Project Gutenberg: http://tinyurl.com/yecmm2z - the file I actually read is: http://tinyurl.com/ycm334e ), but I cannot be sure that was all too it. It’s a good story, a little long in places and with too much self-deprecation on the part of the author; but good. I wish I could give it a higher score – I dearly love lord Dunsany.
It takes a little while to get used to Dunsany's writing style, which at times seems a bit florid and at times seems like deliberate self-parody. But once used to it, the storytelling is enchanting -- and just once in a while very funny.
A quaint tale littered with several literary gems, but not a solid treasure. There is beauty and profound skill in the prose and dialogue, but little else to compel the reader. The character Morano is the best part.
This didn't have the magic of his other books I've read, and I found it lacking. A boring story about a bland, entitled young man. I think there were more words spent describing bacon than all the female characters together.
Took me a while toget into the writing style. I will have to read again to get the full experience.
This was an audio book from LibriVox.https://librivox.org/don-rodriguez-ch...
