https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13821.Lord_of_Light
Roger Zelazny takes the bare bones of this story, adds the exotic ingredients of Indian myth and legend haphazardly, seasons it with the spirit of Prometheus who moved against heaven, and serves it up as a science fiction novel.
And the way the “Rakasha” (the Rakshasa s and Asuras of Indian myth) have been described as elemental spirits of the planet, subdued and imprisoned by the human colonisers, closely parallels the real origin of these demons in folklore.But once all the bells and whistles were removed, I found the story of a renegade god moving against the celestial dictators quite ordinary.
To the simple people he is much better known as Buddha, or Lord of Light:Roger Zelazny attempted to create a very ambitious project: a science fiction novel basically showing the emergence of Buddhism from Hinduism while preserving the philosophy of the religions.
I saw people call this the legendary science fiction classic - just take a look at the cover of the latest paperback edition.
I would not call the novel to be the best introduction to Zelazny's writings, but it is a must read for any person with even the passing interest in science fiction or fantasy.
It's a bit like looking at faded pictures of your parents, and realizing you are now older than they were then.One of the intellectual pleasures of this book for the reader is the putting-together of the world-building set-up, its mysteries gradually revealed, so any thumbnail sketch of same acts as a pretty big spoiler.
Omniscient tends to be emotionally distancing, but has the advantage of being able to pack huge amounts of information into little page-time, allowing for a lot of rich and – relatively, because this is Zelazny, who prudently explains as little as possible – detailed world-building.The episodic structure, starting the story near its end and proceeding through assorted novella-length flashbacks, stems from its being something of a fix-up, incorporating stories that were originally sold separately to various magazines, I believe.
It makes far more sense after the first read, like so many of Zelazny's books, so I can concentrate more on the variety of flavors.
I keep a few old favorites on my device for those times when I need to start a new book during lunch or have a particularly rough day & need a comfort read.
I expect I'll read it again in another handful of years, a perennial favorite.Added 31Mar11: It's fantastic that I've read this book a dozen times or so & enjoy it just as much every time.
The story centers on Sam, one of the crew, retired god & hero.
The Plot: Long story short, immortals from Earth set up shop on another world and assumed the guise of Hindu gods.
Sam, aka Buddha, Siddhartha, Kalkin, etc., opposes them in each of his lifetimes, reviving Buddhism as a tool in his quest.
I'd read more books about Lord Agni and the rest.
I also liked the pray-o-mat machines and the Accelerationists, those who wanted to give humanity advanced technology to speed their spiritual developement.All in all, it's sci fi in a fantasy wrapper telling a version of the rise of Buddhism from Hinduism.
It's one of the best books I read in 2009.
I believe everything I say, though I know I'm a liar.” Zelazny predivno piše, roman je pun predivnih opisa, naprimjer: "Dan bitke osvanuo je ružičasto, poput svježeg ugriza na bedru djevice", a neki odlomci i dijalozi su prave male poetične minijature:"But I recall the springtime of the world as though it were yesterday—those days when we rode together to battle, and those nights when we shook the stars loose from the fresh-painted skies!..."Did you not love me then?""I believe those two loved one another, yes."..."Think carefully.
This DNF is from way back in the day when I was in high school or college (you know, when dinosaurs stalked the earth). I tried to read my dad's paperback copy of this book and crashed and burned. It was complicated and wordy and I just couldn't engage with it ... so it bored me. I need to give it another shot sometime now that I'm older and smarter, or at least more well-read. :)
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.The Special Art of SF: “Lord of Light” by Roger Zelazny“Lord of Light” takes place maybe 100 or 200 years after the landing of humans on the planet where it takes place. A bottle of wine brought from Earth is still drinkable (though to be sure a precious relic); there is one survivor-in-the-flesh of the native entities who resisted human incursion. Also, the godhood of the "crew" arose informally - the "passengers" saw them wielding superhuman powers and doing battle with demonic adversaries, and so labeled them.
On my list of "All Time" favorites.
This book is as good as SF gets and ranks up their with Dune and Ender's Game among the best ever.
Unlike those other two books, I do believe that this book is MUCH, MUCH better the second time around.
Knowing the "general outline" of each chapter (in my opinion) will not in any way take away from the enjoyment of the story and will actually enhance the experience and your appreciation of the story.Winner: Hugo Award Best NovelNominee: Nebula Award Nest Novel.
How Lord of Light Didn't Get Written[Rainy, black-and-white movie evening.
A FIGURE wearing a trenchcoat and a battered fedora emerges from the cab and hands the driver a bill.]FIGURE: [Bogart-style growl] Keep the change, kid.
Tell him it's urgent.[A BEAUTIFUL WOMAN with Barbara Stanwyck hair, also in a trenchcoat, comes out of the door.
The DOORMAN falls back to let her through]SAM: [Voiceover] The moment I saw the dame, I knew she was trouble.WOMAN: Hello Sam. I was wondering when you'd show up.[She puts her arms around SAM and kisses him.
A moment later, two more arms come out of her trenchcoat and also wrap around him.
Ovo je definitivno moj omiljeni pisac. Tačka!!!
But the story itself mainly influenced by Indian mythology.
But it was not a retelling of Indian myths.
The author had done the researched well, based on my very-limited knowledge of Indian myth.
OK, in much harsher words: the author was using Indian mythology for the story.
So please don't use LOL as a reference for Indian mythology.But the main story itself is just ok.
The setting based on Indian myth was definitely boost the selling point (and it was first published at 1967, a good timing too: flower people was flourishing in USA).
and that's back to Buddhist."After a bit, the philosophy became less a focus, and it was more about the people and politics and intrigue, and I generally found this interesting, too, but, as I said, I had a hard time following bits.Actually, I would say I had some of the same problems with this story as I did with the Amber books, so I think it's more just Zelazny's writing style than anything.But I did like it well enough, and I'm glad I read it.
But while I liked it and found it interesting, I have no real need to run out and add it to my owned-shelf, either.*About the non-linear thing.
Işık Tanrısı, şimdiye dek okuduğum hiç bir şeye benzemiyor.
Bittikten sonra çok sağlam bir kitap okumuş olmanın verdiği o hazzı yaşadım resmen.
Fantastik ağırlıklı bir eser, ama tam olarak öyle de değil :).
Roman biraz şiirsel bir dil kullanılarak yazılmış, ama vuku bulan olayları düşündüğümüzde bu eseri daha da etkileyici ve özgün bir hale getiriyor.
Kendi adıma eserin bu kadar iyi olmasının en büyük sebebi baş karakterimiz Sam, yani Siddharta, Buddha, Işık Tanrısı vs....okuduğum en etkileyici karakterlerden.
Bu kadar özgün bir konuyu, bu denli ustalıkla ve şiirsel bir biçimde yazmak sanırım herkesin harcı değil.
Bence okumalısınız, sevmeseniz bile kesinlikle okuduğunuza pişman olmayacağınız bir kitap.
[Originally read July 30, 2010-August 8, 2010]I've long been a fan of Zelazny's Amber series, and in the past, I've heard that he once penned a story that could be even better: Lord of Light.
Even though Zelazny is my favorite author, I wasn't sure I'd like Lord of Light, since I'd read some of his sci-fi short stories before and wasn't overly interested in them (simply because of the subject matter -- not because of the writing, which is always fantastic).
The suffering population who are excluded from the hedonistic divine realm and instead are maintained in a technologically primitive condition are the descendants of the passengers.
The deception is that the divine ideology is underpinned by human technology.
The state of the mass of the population is the result of an elite policy of repression (view spoiler)[apparently just for the sake of it, though they have a slightly fancier justification (hide spoiler)].This book stands out because of its Indian setting in the context of a mass of science-fiction and fantasy stories that are recycled Arthurian myths and the like.
The promise of a different kind of story suggested by the India of myth, legend and philosophy in space turns out to be another one of Mara's deceptions.
Bez obzira što okosnicu romana čine religija i njen odraz na društvo, kolonijalizam, priroda mitova i slobodno mišljenje, da nije Sema, ovo ne bi bilo toliko ubedljivo koliko zapravo jeste. Snažno napisan lik koji narativno čudno konstruisanu priču sprovodi bez imalo problema do kraja. Sve funkcioniše bez većih problema i kao simpatično prepričan hinduistički mitos, ali jednostavno, ono što je ovde posebno, krije se u Semu, koji nikada nije rekao da je bog, ali nikada nije to i porekao, a koji je očito čovek u najboljem smislu te reči.4+
The Good:So amazing!
Great characters, great setting, great ideas, epic scope, and so well written.
This is a science fiction story presented like mythology and it works.
Did I mention it's funny too?The Bad:The only thing really wrong with this is that the story races ahead of the reader, daring you to try and keep up.
It's not often that I think a book should be longer, but in the case of this one it needed more exposition.'Friends' character the protagonist is most like:Sam is cynical, driven, and the sanest god in the room.
3.5 stars
The front cover of this book labels Lord of Light "The Legendary SF Classic," and the blurb on the back cover begins: Earth is long since dead.
From these two data points, I was sure I was about to read a straight-forward sci-fi adventure, possibly in the vein of Robert A.
Binder of Demons, Lord of Light.
This second-half of the quote, removed from the aforementioned sci-fi context, reads a lot more like an epic fantasy, which is what this book actually is -- albeit with a diverse assortment of actual established religions from our culture.
Nutshell: douchebags leave earth, acquire technological immortality, and then, completely reasonably and necessarily, re-enact Hindu mythology.This concludes my reading of Zelazny, and confirms the general pattern of prior books: chaotic presentation, no discipline, immortal protagonists, silly resolutions.
This one tries to do something with Hindu mythology and buddhist theology, much like Creatures of Light and Darkness messed with Egypt and This Immortal flirted with Greece.
So, yeah, all very interesting.Main conflict is between Accelerationism and Deicracy; former want to push forward with industrial development, whereas latter want to affix human civilization at a dark ages level, while high tech religious tools for reincarnation and karma are used for biopolitical management.
Zelazny drops you right into the middle of this story, but if you refuse to be intimidated by the unknown names and tech/magic confusion, you'll be richly repaid. The book's nested layers of reality, paradigm and belief are challenging and beautifully baroque. It's intelligent, wildly imaginative, and daring. I already loved Zelazny, but now I love him even more.
4.5/5  Fantastik mi Bilim kurgu mu olduğunu anlayamadığım bir kitap oldu ama emin olduğum tek şey zekice bir kurgu ve olay örgüsüne sahipti.Tek sıkıntısı okurken(benden kaynaklanıyor)Hindu mitolojisi ile pek bir alakam olmadığından karakterleri tanıyana kadar kafa karıştıran bir okuma oldu benim için.Dikkatli okunması gereken bir kitap olduğunu düşünüyorum çünkü bazı yerlerde yapılan geçişleri yakalamak zor olabiliyor.Fantastik ve bilim kurgu sevenlere öneririm.Yazarın üslubunu beğendim Amber Y
4.5/5
 Fantastik mi Bilim kurgu mu olduğunu anlayamadığım bir kitap oldu ama emin olduğum tek şey zekice bir kurgu ve olay örgüsüne sahipti.Tek sıkıntısı okurken(benden kaynaklanıyor)Hindu mitolojisi ile pek bir alakam olmadığından karakterleri tanıyana kadar kafa karıştıran bir okuma oldu benim için.Dikkatli okunması gereken bir kitap olduğunu düşünüyorum çünkü bazı yerlerde yapılan geçişleri yakalamak zor olabiliyor.Fantastik ve bilim kurgu sevenlere öneririm.Yazarın üslubunu beğendim Amber Yıllıkları serisini okumayı düşünüyorum yakın zamanda.
Velakin Yüzüklerin Efendisi'ndeki Sam gibi kendime çizdiğim o çizgiyi aşarmayı başardım ve Işık Tanrısı'ndaki Sam'in öyküsünü okumaya başladım.Bu çizgiyi aştıktan sonra ise başıma gelenler şöyleydi genel olarak: Kitaptaki son iki bölüm hariç geri kalan her bölümde, o bölümün kendisini okumaya başlarken zaman o kadar yavaşlamıştı ki kitabı okuma hızım filmlerdeki ağır çekimde hareket etmeye denk gelir.
Bu son iki bölüm hariç, her bölümde başıma geldi ve asıl ilginç olan kitabı okuma süreciminde aynı şekilde geçmesi.
Kali'nin motivasyonunu takip ederken onun kadınsal içgüdülerinin ne kadar doğal bir şekilde ilerlediğini ve güce olan tutkusunun kendisini nasıl sardığını gözlemledim.
Not at all what I expected! I think I sort of expected a "Moon Is A Harsh Mistress" clone but espousing Hinduism instead of Rational Anarchy. While I probably would have liked that also, this was really a very inventive myth retelling and I loved it for that.CONTENT WARNING: (no actual spoilers, just a list of topics) (view spoiler)[Transphobic comments/deadnaming, death of loved one, sexual assault (mild) (hide spoiler)]Things to love:-The myth. Holy wow! I read a lot of myths and I adore them.
While I probably would have liked that also, this was really a very inventive myth retelling and I loved it for that.CONTENT WARNING: (no actual spoilers, just a list of topics) (view spoiler)[Transphobic comments/deadnaming, death of loved one, sexual assault (mild)  (hide spoiler)]Things to love:-The myth.
I think this could have been tightened up to give more obvious clues so that you don't have to keep switching to previous chapters to figure out how they got from one city to another in a paragraph break.-The naming.
Please see the content warning for more.Really, a delightful blend of myth retelling and new world exploration.
I have read some of these ideas in Erich von Daniken slightly provocative speculations from the 70's, but Zelazny does a much better job at presentationThe story is one of avatars and symbols, of the struggle between Light and Death, between freedom and tyranny, of friendship, love, dreams and hope transcending the physical body and continuing as "atman" - spirit, energy, ideas.The book is a little confusing at the start, due to the decision to start the first chapter somewhere towards the end of the story, with Mahasamatman ressurection after his defeat in the attempt to overthrow the Hinduist Pantheon.
I'm reading this with Sci-fi & Heroic Fantasy Group, although I know the book well enough that I probably don't need to.
My current paper/lunch time read is a nonfiction book, The Best American Science and Nature Writing 2011.
It's good, but I need something lighter & different.
Body changers pretending to be Hindu gods in a far future on a different planet complete with demons & politics.It's definitely science fiction, but the tone of the story is fantasy, so I'm shelving it as both.
The setup was interesting & then the last bit of the book encompasses 2 great battles where everything becomes clear & blows up.
Oh wow! I'm not sure I can put into words how much I loved this book. Elements of myth, humour and science fiction combine to make this a truly original novel. Zelazny's use of language is sublimely poetic, and the twists and turns the story takes are breathtaking. Just amazing.
Good ride Roger, good ride.
After the war, they began to rule over the planet's human population as gods, modeling themselves after the Hindu pantheon.
Finally, in the last chapter, we return to the present time and witness Sam's final, apocalyptic confrontation with the gods.This book has much to say, about politics, power, technology, morality, religion, and greed.
Also interesting, but even more rare, are details about the planet's pre-human history, how its original life forms lived, and how their way of life was destroyed with the arrival of man.There is much to marvel at in this book.
