https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/112.Children_of_Dune
The Dune series is remarkable in that each sequel gets progressively worse until it's unreadable. The first book is truly excellent. It's mantra on fear alone makes it great. The second book a very good sci-fi novel. The third book is merely okay.The fourth book is sub-par, but still interesting.The fifth book is a pain in the ass to read.The sixth book will leave you concerned about the author's health, so terribad is the writing.But hey, the first book kicks ass!
Sometime during the reading of this book I finally realized why it was so successful (yes, I can be slow at times).
Profits within profits within profits.Let me get this straight until it is too late: I like this book more than the previous one.
Anyhow, I gave the second book 3 stars and I like this one much more.
I gave the first book 4 stars and it is an undisputed classic of science fiction.
Finally the reasoning for the rating was the following: for me 4 stars mean I will reread the book once; 3 stars – no reread.
Meanwhile, Leto and Ghanima journey together into the desert, chasing old myths and desperately trying to understand why the legendary sandworms are slowly disappearing from the surface of Dune… ”This is the fallacy of power: ultimately it is effective only in an absolute, a limited universe.
And from that day to this, no Fremen has gone to Jacurutu.
But in my eyes, Alia is a more fascinating character still.Thus ends the final book of the Great Dune Trilogy, one of the absolute greatest series every written within the genres of speculative fiction.
The third of the Dune and the slide away from the quality of the original masterpiece has begun in earnest.Better than Dune Messiah, but only in that it is more ambitious and with a more cohesive plot.
Herbert takes a more introspective narrative to prepare the way for Leto II.
The concepts of shared DNA, collective memories and possession run astride a vehicle of rapid autocratic decline.Some cool scenes, a few interesting new concepts, but ultimately Herbert's vision is starting to fray and the great bulk of his masterwork is becoming as cumbersome as the Baron's ghost.
A cautionary tale for creators of series - go back to the well too often and the water gets stale.
Might work better as a version of Monopoly. Here are some suggestions for the Chance and Community Chest cards:SOMEONE YOU THOUGHT WAS DEAD IS ACTUALLY ALIVE. ADVANCE 5 SPACES.THE MYSTERIOUS STRANGER IS SOMEONE YOU KNEW IN THE FIRST VOLUME. GO BACK 10 SPACES.EVERYONE ELSE IS INVOLVED IN A CONSPIRACY AGAINST YOU. MISS A THROW.PAY A ONE TRILLION CREDIT FINE OR HAVE A MYSTICAL INSIGHT.TURN INTO A GIANT SANDWORM AND EAT ALL THE OTHER PLAYERS.etc etc...
And I stood upon the sand, and I saw a beast rise up out of that sand, and upon the head of that beast was the name of God!
Chaos begins to breed in the Empire and a savior is needed.The narrative moves between several characters and their motivations, choices, and conspiracies.
The pacing of this novel is much slower than the previous two books.
I think this is mostly due to a large portion of the focus being placed on the internal metaphysical mechanics of the characters.
But what I did enjoy about that aspect of the novel is that none of the characters are who they appear to be at first glance.
This may be heresy, but I think this is my favourite of the Dune books so far. I found Dune interesting, but oddly opaque. The second book was more accessible, but didn't really grab me.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
”I must not fear.Fear is the mind-killer.Fear is the little-death that brings total obliteration.I will face my fear.I will permit it to pass over me and through me.And when it has gone past I will turn the inner eye to see its path.Where the fear has gone there will be nothing......Only I will remain." If you have read at least Dune you must be familiar with the above “Litany Against Fear”. I don’t know about you but it gets old very fast for me. When it shows up in Children of Dune I read it
When it shows up in Children of Dune I read it like “I must not fear.
Come to think of it the very first Dune novel feels very complete within itself, and you could read it as one of the greatest standalone sci-fi novels of all time (or one of the most overrated if it doesn’t do it for you).So the Atreides are at it again with their mystical shenanigan.
I don’t know if I will go on to read God Emperor of Dune and the subsequent volumes.
The Golden Path which will drive the last three official Dune books is introduced here but only explained in God Emperor as we see the bizarre fate to which Leto II voluntarily succumbs.
Lastly, although Frank had the excuse of dying before writing #7, Martin apparently may never get around to writing #6 Winds of War or #7 A Dream of Spring leaving us (and the Targaryans, Lannisters and remaining Starks eternally hanging!)The ending was spectacular - perhaps the best ending in a Dune book as far as I have read them (reading Heretics of Dune now) with the palace scene and the Leto II cliffhanger.
I am definitely glad that I persevered this far in the Dune series and found this was a particularly strong entry.
The conventional wisdom seems to be that only the first Dune book is good and that the rest of them are awful, but I've found this to definitely not be the case.
This 3rd book in the series was gripping and exciting...I literally couldn't put it down!
Don't listen to what everyone else says, read these books for yourself and make your own decision...you won't be disappointed!
Behind the scenes there is all sorts of plotting and double-dealing between a whole host of characters and factions, and the shocking revelations from the middle of the book on make this book one of the best in the series, and it wraps-up the first trilogy of books and this time period with a bang!
This is when I officially gave up on the Herbertverse. This was awful!!! I really do not care for the children of Mu A'dib, they're both creepy and way too articulate (kind of like Dakota Fanning) I was actually rooting for the assassins the entire book. And when the kid smears worm larvae on himself and becomes a god!?!!?!!?! Sorry folks, I checked out. I don't even care how the rest of the saga works out. No God Emperor of Dune for me, no Heretics, stop this universe, I want to get off!
He is the anti-Lucas because to experience the world of Dune is to live in the thought-bubbles of its characters, constantly reading one another’s expressions, trying desperately to interpret nonverbal cues of zen-like figures like mentats and Bene Gesserit “witches,” wherein plots and schemes and indignation (the silent kind) abound.
Conversation and thought are the rivulets that feed every facet of the “Dune” universe, and that universe seems even larger because of the vast expanses unmentioned.Take, for example, the Lady Jessica’s travels to Salusa Secundus, a rare deviation from the political plotting and religious fervor of Arrakis.
As a result, “Children of Dune” expands the Dune universe by an order of magnitude.
“İyi bak, kuzenim Hâriku’l-Âde. Biz hep böyle olacağız. Evliyken de böyle duracağız. Her zamanki gibi sırt sırta duracak ve zıt yönlere bakarak varlığımızı koruyacağız.”
Who is going to pay for our excesses today, and how will they go about fixing them?The Preacher seemed a powerful figure at the beginning of the story, but by the end I almost felt sorry for the old guy.
Leto striking out to redress the mistakes of both his father's and aunt's reigns looks to be an interesting story I'll enjoy following.
CoD is not something to be read lightly as you can get through several pages and realize you are completely lost.
On that thought, I'm going to take a break for a little bit before continuing the series as I find it to be somewhat exhausting.
5.5 stars. I am absolutely blown away by how good this series is. While I rated Dune slightly higher than Dune Messiah and this book (simply based on it beign the first of the series and therefore getting the nod for originality and the groundbraking nature of the narrative), I actually ENJOYED Messiah and this book even more than book 1. Definitely don't stop after Book 1. A must read for all science fiction fans. HIGHEST POSSIBLE RECOMMENDATION!!Nominee: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1977)Nominee: Locus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1977)
Dune Messiah was meant to be the end, not a bridge of any sort between better books in the series.Children of Dune follows many swirling plots throughout the empire to remove the titular Children from their places as heirs to Paul "Muad'dib" Atreides.
The story is epic in scope, much like the first book, encomassing huge changes in the empire, and there are a lot of great character interactions throughout the novel.The Bad?
I mean, all I'm asking for is a paragraph here and there that makes these children feel like real people, with real emotions and motivations, and plans that aren't completely left to my imagination.
"Children of Dune" starts agonisingly slow, but despite the fact that those first ~40% of the book is used just to set a plot and explain, what is going on and who is scheming against whom, when it finally starts, it really starts.
And though "Children of Dune" are not as good as "Dune"- barely -, it's quality, vision and grandeur can be matched by only just a few books.Beware though - "Children of Dune", as well as Dune Messiah are books for core fans.
Dune-nerds, you can call them.
And a casual reader, who stumbled on this book by a chance, would probably not like this book on most occasions.
Deca Dine 5*Božanski car Dine 3,5*
Dune Çocukları için uzayda geçen, dini bol Game of Thrones bile diyebiliriz :DKitapta bir süre sonra beni sıkan bir mistisizm, gizemcilik havası var.
Bir de herkes karşısına çıkan bir sorunun üstünde sadece kendi kendine düşünerek sonunda doğru cevaba ulaşıyor; ama cevap yine çoğu zaman bize söylenmiyor.
Halkı kontrol etmek için dini kullanan yozlaşmış rahiplerden tutun zenginliğini korumaktan başka bir şey düşünmeyen CHOAM şirketine ve etliye sütlüye karışmayız deyip her şeye burunlarını sokan Uzay Loncasına kadar bu evrendeki pek çok kurum ve kuruluş gerçek dünyada da karşılık bulabilen şeyler.
Man, I keep reading these things cause I hear number four is pretty f'd up in an entertaining way, but after this one I'm beginning to wonder if it's possible for Herbert to write an entertaining book.
I came to realize in reading this one that if I turned a page and it said "And then a giant Sandworm ate everyone, everywhere, everywhen because time is a singular point that human perception must move beyond in order to assume the greater nonassumption of perpetual Bene Gesserit Golden Path fear is the mindkiller blah blah blah the end" I really wouldn't have cared at all and instead felt minor relief, if also some disappointment that the f'd up events of the fourth book no longer existed and I'd wasted my time.
"Yo no debo ser lo que fue mi padre.
Yo no tengo que obedecer las reglas de mi padre, ni siquiera creer en todo lo que él creía.
Sigo pensando que el universo de Dune es uno de los más hermosos jamás creados y que, hasta el momento, se mantiene la calidad del autor.Nueve años después de los eventos ocurridos en El mesías de Dune.
Los gemelos Atreides, Leto y Ghanima, heredaron la memoria genética y son muchos más que niños.
¿Sobrevivirá el Halcón de los Atreides?"Birth of a God" by Gorrem
[placeholder]Some bits were amazing, most parts I liked, very few meh parts.
So being a mash of like/reallylike/meh/amazing makes it...
Not as epic as the first book, not as heart wrenching as the second book - but well worth the read (for me) - although that showdown at the end a tad bit overdramatic haha (I would like to see a live action of that scene though!).
If that doesn't tell you how much I enjoyed the book then I guess nothing will.
I do plan to read on until at least Book Six at some point down the road.
This series as a whole is mind bending. It is a tough read, with lots of complexity, an unprecedented amount of world/universe building and a tedious new vocabulary but it’s well worth it. I just finished Children of Dune and my brain feels like it’s cooling down from a hefty workout. In a good and satisfying way. If you read the series, stick with it and prepare to be amazed.
The point of Herbert's whole series is the inevitable corruption of power in the institutions of government and faith.
The two main characters are Paul Atreides' deeply weird young twins who are pre-born, thus they have the memories of hundreds or thousands of ancestors (one accepts a large amount of mystical shenanigans when reading Dune.) They are not very likable, or dislikable.
I loved the atmosphere, but if a giant sandworm would have eaten the Atreides twins 100 pages in, I would have been very much not sad.The plot picks up a few years after the last book.
The mystical (and often contradictory) mumbo-jumbo, the increasing sense that I was simply reading a recasting of Dune, the endless pregnant speeches that suggest more than they deliver, just drove me into the ground like a tent post.
Herbert's endless wheels-within-wheels plots, revenge, the weird cultures, etc., are pretty cool.
However, by the end (among various outrages) I thought the chief crime was how the wonderfully strange character of Alia had been flattened out and misused.
Re-booting characters probably should be a no-go zone in a multi book series.
This one is officially my favorite of the series.
The result is a novel with a lot more showing and a lot less telling.
The telling that remains now is there mostly to help the reader bridge the nine year gap between novels.
It was far-reaching, character-filled, and cerebral.
There is a short slump in the middle where I felt like Herbert could have cut this into two novels, but this one is mostly a wild sandworm ride that kept me reading from cover to cover.
I have high hopes for the rest of the series.
Imagine Count Chocula raising his voice for the female parts and reading Dune aloud. "ONE, yes One Atreides, is nevah enough!" That's close to this 17 hour audioslogfest. However, I was ready to abandon the series after the searing ear dehydration that was book two, and now I'm back on the team, looking forward to the second most hyped book: God Emperor of Dune.
This needs no review, but I will share two quotes from it. The depth of this writing is why I consider Dune to be the ultimate SF. When I am weaker than you, I ask you for freedom because that is according to your principles; when I am stronger than you, I take away your freedom because that is according to my principles. And the second:  You aren't thinking or really existing unless you're willing to risk even your own sanity in the judgement of your existence. That's all, folks.
Beş üstünden altı vermek istiyorum, beni kısıtlayan sisteme lanet olsun.
This is an unpopular opinion, but Children of Dune is my favorite of the Dune Chronicles so far. The politics, religion, and intrigue work together to create a thrilling and enjoyable read. I was absolutely engrossed from start to finish, and I could hardly put it down (as you can see from the "date started" and "date finished" numbers). I am excited to read book 4!
