https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8151.Laughter_in_the_Dark
However to help with her dreams of hitting the big screen, Margot hatches a plan with former lover Axel Rex to deceive him while on a trip to France, with terrible consequences.This is ultimately a tragically comic love story, although I found it far more tragic than funny, his daughter Irma would fall seriously ill and Albinus has lingering thoughts of trying to rekindle his dying marriage, but Margot turns into a nympho to fulfil his sexual appetite and wants him to get a divorce.
Και συνεχίζει:«Αυτή είναι όλη η ιστορία διατυπωμένη σε γενικές γραμμές, που θα μας αρκούσαν αν δεν υπήρχε το όφελος και η απόλαυση της διήγησης.
Και, παρότι μια ταφόπετρα, τυλιγμένη στα βρύα, έχει άφθονο χώρο για να περιλάβει τη συντμημένη εκδοχή μιας ανθρώπινης ζωής, η έκθεση της λεπτομέρειας είναι πάντα ευπρόσδεκτη».Με αυτή την αφηγηματική τεχνική της προοικονομίας αρχίζει ο συγγραφέας στις πρώτες σειρές του βιβλίου να μας προετοιμάζει ψυχολογικά για όσα θα συμβούν αποκαλύπτοντας παράλληλα όλη τη ροή των μελλοντικών γεγονότων.
Προσωπικά αυτή ακριβώς η επιτομή της αφηγηματικής τεχνικής εξ αρχής με εντυπωσίασε και συνέχισα την ανάγνωση σίγουρη πάντα πως ο συγγραφέας θα με ανταμείψει με κάθε του σκέψη αποτυπωμένη στο χαρτί.
Rex sees the opportunities that Albinus's infatuation with Margot produces, and understands that even a great risk means little to the blind and helpless, in love, in loss, and in dwindling fortune.
They rent a hotel room and, after a chance encounter with an old friend, Albinus happens to surmise that Margot and Rex are engaged in an affair.
He has stolen beautiful young things from Albinus his whole life, and this is no different.
Albinus steals away with Margot and leaves Rex at the hotel.
(ص 1)؛ داستان به شیوه ی دانای کل روایت میشود، که نمایانگر طنز سیاه ناباکوف است.
The film I was about to see was called ‘Obsession’.As I sat in the dark, I laughed to myself because if there’s one theme I’ve come across a lot in literature, what with Proust and Goethe and Mann, it’s obsession.No surprise then that Albinus, the lead character in the movie, turns out to resemble Proust’s obsessive hero Charles Swann so closely that it’s hard to tell the difference between them.
The book reads like a screen play; there’s very little descriptive writing but lots of dialogue, and we always know where the characters are in each scene so that reading is so like sitting in a cinema that it's difficult to tell the difference.
Well, Laughter in the Dark was by far the worst novel I’ve read by Nabokov.
Although it’s no masterpiece, Laughter in the Dark is still a pleasure to read and a great window into how Nabokov developed both his life-long themes and writing tools.
To those Nabokov snobs who might say, “Laughter in the Dark is nothing more than a shoddy rendition of Lolita,” I say to you, how many novels did you write in your mother tongue when you were thirty and then translated into a foreign language two years later?
I mean, of course it’s not as good as Lolita, which is one of the best books of our time and written in the prime of Nabokov’s genius.
Once upon a time there lived in Berlin, Germany, a man called Albinus.
That way Nabokov starts  Laughter in the dark  and in fact these words are enough to describe the plot.
Outwardly it is a banal tale of tragicomic romance of older man with young girl.
Nabokov is brilliantly ironical and pungent and whole story full of sardonic humour.Laughter in the dark.
After reading you may only applaud how apt the title is.
Though when you're reading how blinded by passion fool changes into the fooled blind laughter gradually sticks in your throat.
The genealogy of most of his great later work seem to all thread back to 'Laughter in the Dark'/aka 'Kamera obskura'.In this novel, Nabokov is playing with themes of vision, blindness, truth, deception, art and morality.
You see many of Nabokov's later motifs surrounding vision floating (like mouches volantes) through this early work: mirrors, window pains, mimicry, scintillations, semblances, glasses, movies, etc.
He bends the narrative and plays with Tolstoy's belief that it is "the essential nature of truth to be hidden from, then revealed to, the eyes." Nabokov gives you the goods and gives them to you good and hard right between the eyes.
Leave it to Nabokov to strip you of your faith in humanity.
Laughter occurs in the dark, both literally and figuratively, as Albinus goes on a downward spiral after abandoning his wife and child for a lover who is a child herself.
Albinus is a tortured and disoriented soul who lives in the dark, always reaching, always wanting more, always living inwardly, so that those around him cannot imagine his humiliation and inner pain.
It begins in Berlin with a borrowing fr "The Blue Angel" : an older chap-a married art scholar and a dullard-swoons over a teenage (adorable-slutty) usherette in a movie house.
The scholarly Albinus is good-looking, Nabokov reports, though "his mild blue eyes bulged a little when he was thinking hard," and, since he has a slowish mind, this happens often.
"I'm prepared to do anything to make my darling happy," he says.Enter Axel Rex, a virile scamp up to no good, Margot's exlover...they keep Albinus stuffed w sleeping pills.
Critics find Albinus and Axel Rex two sides of Nabokov, who collides sexual pathology with self-knowledge -- or should I say self-illumination ?
Era rico, respeitável, feliz; certo dia abandonou a mulher por causa de uma amante jovem; amava; não era amado; e a sua vida acabou em desastre.Isto é a história toda e podíamos tê-la deixado por aqui se não fosse o proveito e o prazer no contar"Assim inicia Nabokov este romance.
E logo me lembrei de um trecho de uma recente opinião do Nelson Zagalo sobre o porquê de lermos literatura; não será, certamente, apenas pelas histórias que essas estão por "todo o lado" e todas semelhantes.
Laughter in the Dark, written by the author of the controversial classic Lolita, is as unforgettable as it is original. The main character, an aspiring filmmaker, finds himself caught up in a dramatic love triangle involving his mistress and another man. Poetically written and vividly picturesque, this novel is undoubtedly worth reading.
Not a child, although she seems to be able to play that role to get what she wants.What is interesting about this novel is that Nabokov literally reveals the plot right away.
The characters are poor excuses for human beings most of the time, but it not hard to sympathize with them in spite of that or maybe because of that.Once Albinus leaves his wife for Margot, they live in a somewhat stable relationship.
Albinus, a boring intellectual, Margot a young cruel mistress and Rex sadistic artist- quite a love triangle they make.
Μια τελευταία σκέψη για τις μέρες στο σαλέ είναι αυτή, πως μπορούν δυο άνθρωποι να είναι ή όχι χυδαίοι αλλά ο έρωτας τους, αυτό το σύστημα που αποτελούν, ο κώδικας επικοινωνίας, η αυθυπαρξία μπορεί να τους κάνει αδυσώπητους απέναντι σε όλο τον κόσμο, όπως οι κόρες στον πατέρα Γκοριό, ή η γυναίκα του ανθρωπάκου απ’ το Αρχαγγέλσκ, που δεν έχει καμιά σημασία η καλοσύνη, η αγάπη, γιατί ο έρωτας τυφλώνει και βλέπει τα πάντα σαν εμπόδιο στην ευτυχία του και ορισμένα όρια φαίνονται πολύ εύκαμπτα και εύπλαστα.
Laughter in the Dark is the story of a married man’s destructive obsession with an attractive young girl.
Not a shocking thematic departure for Nabokov, but the novel nonetheless has its own unique character.
In terms of its tone it is light and ironic, and in its treatment of its themes, uncomplicated.
Nabokov suggests the tragic ending in the first paragraph, forgoing any dramatic tension, and allowing the reader to just sit back and enjoy the inevitable train wreck.
This is a tragic comedy with the character of a moral parable.
I wonder to what extent Nabokov was working through his own issues with fidelity and temptation.
Ostensibly a story about a man who forsakes his wife and child for a new model vixen (read: teenager), Laughter in the Dark sets a benchmark on how terrible human beings can be to one another and the very real cost that duplicity can exact on all involved.
It had me wincing at points and I don’t wince.
The novel is excruciating in its escalations of suffering.
I s’pose there are all kinds of novels out there that deal with this sort of stuff, and I’m sure the depravities have escalated as the public’s bloodlust has proven unslakable.
کاری که خودِ ناباکوف انجام می دهد.
حتی این بدترین و کمترین رمانِ وی از لحاظ خلاقیت های ناباکوف بسیار خواندنی و جذاب است.
این رمان در واقع زمانی که از سنت پترزبورگ به برلین مهاجرت کرده بودند نوشته شده.
طنزی که خودِ ناباکوف آنرا طنزِ هگلی نام نهاده.
و همیشه تا زمانی که زنده بود ترجمه های کتاب هایش زیرِ نظر خودش به وسیله ی پسرش دیمیتری انجام می شد.
منصوری آنرا به فارسی "تالیف" کرده!!!) س"Lolita, light of my life, fire of my loins.
About as many years before Lolita was born as my age was that summer.
با خود فکر کرد: پس این است .باید کمی ارام بمانم"و بعد خیلی اهسته بر ماسه هاي درخشان درد قدم بردارم، به سوي ان موج ابی ابی.
نمی توانم نفس بکشم ...."خنده در تاریکیترجمه ی محمد اسماعیل فلزییکی از چیزای عجیب اینه که یه زندگی رو می سازیم برای خودمون و بعد دیوانه وار می چسبیم بهش.
که نمی دونیم چی هست اصلا و کجا هست و خوشبختانه هنوز خوشبختیم.آلبینوسِ خوشبختانه خوشبخت...آۀبینوس خوشبخت توو زندوون خوشبختی خودش بود که یهو زرق و برق یه زندگی دیگه چشم و چار ش رو کور کرد.
خنده دار مثل خود زندگی ِ تلخ ِ لوده ی بی معنی.عید 95
Só os grande escritores conseguem transformar tramas aparentemente banais em autênticos contos icónicos.
Vladimir Nabokov faz exatamente isso.
Com astúcia, talento, e um domínio completo das técnicas de narração, imagina um triângulo amoroso que serve para revelar toda a maldade existente no coração de alguns seres humanos.
Neste romance fala-se, acima de tudo, da ganância pelo dinheiro, do amor forjado por interesses económico, e pela ingenuidade de um apaixonado.
E tudo é contado de forma tão original, mas sempre com um tom sardónico, quase satírico.
No final, apenas restam dois sentimentos no leitor: compaixão e revolta.
Antagónicos, paradoxais, mas extremamente reais.
More reviews can be found on my book blog.---This was written twenty-three years before  Lolita  and also deals with a relationship between an older man and a younger woman. These are the only two Nabokov novels I've read so far, so I'm hoping he does branch out a bit in his other novels, but this was still a much different story than what happened between Humbert Humbert and Dolores.Where Humbert is a calculated predator, Albert Albinus, this story's older man, is a fumbling and naive fool. He'
It looks like the rest of his Russian novels were translated either by him or his son.A certain man once lost a diamond cuff-link in the wide blue sea, and twenty years later, on the exact day, a Friday apparently, he was eating a large fish - but there was no diamond inside.
That’s what I like about coincidence.I'm looking forward to reading more of his novels and curious to see what other subjects he tackles in those stories.
3.5 starsThis is the 4th novel by Vladimir Nabokov I read: the other three being 'Lolita,' 'King, Queen, Knave,' and 'Pnin'.
Interestingly, this novel written in Russian has been translated into English by Mr Nabokov himself because he was displeased with the first English translation published by Jonathan Long in London in 1936 (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Laughte...).All in all, there are more or less three characteristics that essentially shape the three key characters' fate, each pertaining to wealthiness (Albert Albinus), greed (Margot Peters) and brazennes (Axel Rex).
If Rex were not brazen, he would not mischievously linger on with Margot in a rented Chalet in Switzerland while Albinus could not see due to his accident.To continue ...
that said, I hesitate to call this "lesser nabokov," because all that means is that it is far better, more thrilling, more beautiful, more heartbreakingly tragic & hilarious - simultaneously!
laughter in the dark is from 1938; nabokov has clearly gone as far as he could with telling a straight story, and his ridiculously expanding talents soon pushed him into realms that (it could be said) made him more difficult to read & enjoy.
some themes, situations and character studies here are revisited in the author's well-known masterpieces of the 1950s (pnin, lolita), but here they lack any of the occasionally puzzling gamesmanship or linguistic gymnastics of those jewels.
"lesser nabokov??" is there such a thing?
کتابهایی که دربارهی خیانتاند همیشه برایم خیلی آزاردهندهاند. این کتاب شبیه یه فیلم بود انقدر توصیفاتش ملموس و تصویری بود. انگار داشتی یه فیلم اعصاب خردکن میدیدی که تمام مدت حین دیدنش داشتی با حرص ناخونات رو میجویدی و نمیتونستی فیلم رو قطع کنی. باید ادامه میدادی و میفهمیدی که بعدش چی میشه. یه طنز خیلی تلخی هم تمام ماجراهای داستان داشتن که منو یاد فیلم match point وودی الن میانداخت.
کتاب‌هایی که درباره‌ی خیانت‌اند همیشه برایم خیلی آزاردهنده‌اند. این کتاب شبیه یه فیلم بود انقدر توصیفاتش ملموس و تصویری بود. انگار داشتی یه فیلم اعصاب خردکن می‌دیدی که تمام مدت حین دیدنش داشتی با حرص ناخونات رو می‌جویدی و نمی‌تونستی فیلم رو قطع کنی. باید ادامه می‌دادی و می‌فهمیدی که بعدش چی میشه. یه طنز خیلی تلخی هم تمام ماجراهای داستان داشتن که منو یاد فیلم match point وودی الن می‌انداخت.

صفحه 139لمپرت فکر کرد: موجود زیبایی است، در این حرفی نیست، اما در او چیزی هست که آدم را به یاد مار می اندازد
The trick with Nabokov, with any novelist, is to sympathize not with the characters but with characters' creator.
There is no one in this novel to get behind, not even the betrayed wife or her sick little girl.
Because they are but props, silent-movie cliches.
All three of the leads are detestable, each in their own way.
And the plot is as outlandish and unlikely as the films Nabokov was having fun with.
What makes the book worth reading is, as always, his style and his lovely, lyrical detail.
But it's also the knowledge that even though his creations are awful, Nabokov isn't.
بهغیر از بیست صفحهی اوّلش، همه را در یک نشست خواندم. نثرِ جذّابِ ناباکف و ماجرای طنزآمیزِ تلخِ کتاب، بسیار خوشخوانش کرده بود. شاهکارِ ادبی نبود، ادّعای آن را هم نداشت، ولی خواندنش لذّتبخش بود. اثری از دورانِ جوانیِ ناباکف؛ چرا که نه؟
‫به‌غیر از بیست صفحه‌ی اوّلش، همه را در یک نشست خواندم. نثرِ جذّابِ ناباکف و ماجرای طنزآمیزِ تلخِ کتاب، بسیار خوش‌خوانش کرده بود. شاهکارِ ادبی نبود، ادّعای آن را هم نداشت، ولی خواندنش لذّت‌بخش بود. اثری از دورانِ جوانیِ ناباکف؛ چرا که نه؟
4.5*Cũng như Lolita là cuốn sách mình không thể đọc hết, thì Tiếng cười trong bóng tối là cuốn sách không biết review thế nào...Cốt truyện không mới nhưng không phải cái gì cũ thì cũng nhàm chán.Cảm thấy như hết thảy mọi nhân vật trong cuốn sách này đều đau khổ, kẻ lừa lọc lẫn kẻ bị lừa lọc, kẻ còn sống cũng như kẻ đã chết.
Sững sờ và cuối cùng là Thỏa mãn.Cũng phải nói thêm - Vladimir Nabokov là một bậc thầy trong việc thể hiện nội tâm nhân vật, hoàn toàn cuốn hút, hoàn toàn diệu kì.
Lai gan sižets sākumā šķita bezgala banāls stāsts par padzīvojuša, dzīves nogarlaikota onkuļa un nepilngadīgas, bet dikti alkatīgas un seklas jaunuves attiecībām, tomēr lasot tas izrādījās daudz dziļāks un sarežģītāks nekā gaidīju. Turklāt Nabokovs raksta tik sasodīti labi. Īpaši man patika epizode, kurā viņš parodēja Prustu - romānā ir personāžs, kurš ir sarakstījis 300 lappušu garu grāmatu par zobārsta apmeklējumu. Un mums ar šo izcili dramatisko sacerējumu nākas iepazīties arī nedaudz tuvāk, jo izrādījās, ka tam ir liktenīga nozīme romāna varoņa dzīvē.
Nabokov famously disowned “Laughter in the Dark” and one can see some of the reasons why-it lacks the vivacity and verve, the poetic cadence of Nabokov’s prose, however it contains most of the themes which dominate Nabokov’s works; the vicissitudes of reality, of cruelty, the burgeoning sexuality of adolescence, solipsism and unreliable narrators.
It is by far the most film-like of Nabokov’s novels-indeed many of the passages, such as the mime performance given by Axel against the blind Albinus, would make for brilliant film scenes and although it lacks the prosaic brilliance of Nabokov’s latter novels, it forms an important bridge in Nabokov’s transition to an artistic genius which was to last until the publication of ‘Ada’.
