https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50033.Dandelion_Wine

Magic Realism - according to Wikipedia"Magical realism, magic realism, or marvelous realism is a genre of narrative fiction and, more broadly, art (literature, painting, film, theatre, etc.) that, while encompassing a range of subtly different concepts, expresses a primarily realistic view of the real world while also adding or revealing magical elements.
"Magical realism", perhaps the most common term, often refers to fiction and literature in particular, with magic or the supernatural presented in an otherwise real-world or mundane setting."This book is the essence of Magic Realism.
I know, for I'm one of them.”I re-read this after a couple of decades and like most works, I appreciate it better now than then.
The last thing you learn in life is you're the same fool.” Fundamental Bradbury, this work explores many of the themes that are representative of his canon: coming of age, spirituality, imagination, and the importance of remaining human amidst an ever increasingly dehumanizing world of technology.“Sandwich outdoors isn’t a sandwich anymore.
Tastes different than indoors, notice?
Tastes like mint and pinesap.
Published in 1957, the book is not a short story collection per se but of the twenty-seven vignettes, ten had been published before: "Season of Disbelief" and "The Window" appeared in Collier's in 1950, "A Story About Love" in McCall's in 1951, "The Lawns of Summer" in Nation’s Business in 1952, "The Swan" in Cosmopolitan and "The Magical Kitchen" in Everywoman’s Magazine in 1954, "The Trolley" in Good Housekeeping in 1955, etc.
He could not stand waste, for he knew that one man's junk is another man's luxury.My favorite vignette in Dandelion Wine is "The Swan", in which a young newspaper columnist named Bill Forrester impresses ninety-five year old Miss Helen Loomis with the way he orders at an ice cream parlor.
I mustn't forget, I'm alive, I know I'm alive, I mustn't forget it tonight or tomorrow or the day after that."-Ray Bradbury, Dandelion WineIngredients1 quart yellow dandelion blossoms, well rinsed 1 gallon boiling water 1 (.25 ounce) package active dry yeast 1 orange, sliced 1 lemon sliceDirectionsPlace dandelion blossoms in the boiling water, and allow to stand for 4 minutes.
Remove and discard the blossoms, and let the water cool to 90 degrees F (32 degrees C).Stir in the yeast, sugar, orange slices, and lemon slice; pour into a plastic fermentor, and attach a fermentation lock.
Let the wine ferment in a cool area until the bubbles stop, 10 to 14 days.
Recently while moving bookcases, books and furniture around, I came across my copy of  Dandelion Wine . I had read it once, years ago, during my own personal Golden Age of Science Fiction, ages 8 to 16. Now was a good time as any to revisit this novel. Bradbury had been marked, incorrectly, in my mind as a sci-fi writer on the same level as Heinlein or Asimov.He's not a hard core, I, Robot type of sci-fi writer, really. More like a fantasy writer who touched on sci-fi themes.And, he's in his own
There haven't been many authors like Bradbury, heart of a poet, imagination as great as any, and a style that is both comfortable and familiar to the reader and yet is still unique.Dandelion Wine is in my opinion the most 'poetical' of anything I've read by him.It's a pean to childhood joys and fears, a story of the rite of passage from young child to a more aware young man.
He is at the top of his game as he casts a spell about the rite of passage for Douglas as he progresses from a simple child to be a more complex and self-reflecting young man.I really can't give this book enough praise.
Um....ok so I totally hated this book.
I hope someone out there can tell me why this is a good book.
It's unique, sure, but it's just a mess of words.
In reading the introduction, I felt like I got a sense of why that is.
The author said he forced himself to word-dump every single morning - just writing as creatively etc as he could.
Well, I think he just put those "creative" word-dumps together and called it a story.
It has no story line, no voice, no character development, no point.
The author just seems to want to hear himself write....
¡apparently my 1,000th rating! I should be stoked at the milestone I guess, but I was really digging how that 999 looked under my avatar. maybe I should go back and un-rate something and then just keep doing that as needed.
So no plot and no character development: kids remain exactly the same no matter what happens to them.
What would happened it a transcript of this book was submitted to a publisher not by an undisputed classic of science fiction Ray Bradbury, but an unknown guy John Smith?
After finishing this book I almost ended up in a dreadful reading slump.
P.S. If any of my friends that happened to like this book want to de-friend me, I understand.
Sure, it's overly sentimental and largely ignores the social problems of the time depicted, but when you're 12 years old in small-town America, there are no social problems. There are only problems regarding the new pair of tennis shoes you want, the creepy guy who hangs out in the ravine, the desire to live forever, to be young forever, to build the perfect happiness machine. Besides, Bradbury's writing is so rich it practically drips, much like biting into a perfectly ripe peach in August.
"Dandelion Wine.... The words were summer on the tongue".  We all love to travel, one way or another. That's why we read! To experience time; To experience new worlds; To experience...And sometimes, we find those peculiar time machines that take us to somewhere special. Let's say, a reminiscent of nostalgic childhood. That one is always special. My favorite in that category are To Kill a Mockingbird and Malgudi DaysNow I have Dandelion Wine... And It is different from all these books!In Dandel
And It is different from all these books!In Dandelion Wine, Ray Bradbury welcomes us to Summer of 1928 in the fictional world of Green town.
I never knew there were thoughtful children like these in the world!
Needless to say, summer of '28 was very eventful.--------------------------First Update--------------------------Sometimes, there might just be a story behind how a particular book gets into your radar.
Dandelion Wine has such a story to tell!Back in 2015, I was catching up with some of my dreadful assignments and tasks which took hours to complete.
So if you are a fan of Ray Bradbury’s sci-fi books like Fahrenheit 451 and The Martian Chronicles, or his fantasy Something Wicked This Way Comes, and you are looking for more in that fantastical vein, Dandelion Wine may disappoint you.
The story is set in Green Town, Illinois in the summer of 1928 where brand spanking new tennis shoes seem to have a life of their own when you put them on, where a man constructs a Happiness Machine that almost works, where a time machine sort of exists and many other magical things occur which are only magical if you look at them the right way.The most memorable chapter deals with a serial killer called The Lonely One and his creepy stalking of a girl who may be too brave for her own good.
I marked several pages that I wanted to quote in my review, but now find myself thinking that reviewing it is going to take some of the magic out of it for me.
I would have liked fewer pages of solid text and more dialogue, but hey, this is Ray Bradbury and I love the guy, however- I think The October Country is still my favorite of all his works.
Lastly, much as I love Ray Bradbury, I still hold Robert McCammon's BOY'S LIFE as my favorite novel of all time.
Maybe not, but Bradbury certainly captured a boys summer in a bottle and it was sweet as Dandelion Wine.
Similar to what he did with Something Wicked this way Comes and The Halloween Tree, Bradbury pulls me into his story with his poetic, symbolically descriptive style in a way that does what true readers of fiction literature love; he transforms me from my world of reality into his story, and being a man, these stories are something to treasure because it is easy with age to forget your childhood, but when I am captured and taken up into these stories, I am reminded what it's like to be a boy again.
I doubt if there has been a better book written about summer and boyhood than DANDELION WINE.
Dan Simmon's Summer of Night of course comes to mind.
But where Simmons gives us the delicious darkness, Bradbury's tale is a bit more full of light and magic.
It's all about Green Town, Illinois in the early 20th century.
Young Douglas Spaulding and his brother make dandelion wine with their grandfather, and they also have many wonderful adventures together.
I try to revisit Green Town every other summer or so.
The light and magic never fail to amaze me.
If a day ever comes when the patisseries of the world draw back their prized pastries and sweets, and replace them with old and new copies of Dandelion Wine, I would be the first one, surely, to grab hold of the person next to me and aver in my most jubilant voice that Yes, I did see it coming.
With such prose, one needn't rest one’s head on pillows but the sentences, and then dream, and dream, and dream, with open eyes.Dandelion Wine is a celebration of life and death, old and young, dark and light, joy and terror… Bradbury’s love of life, of small joys, of the life of everyday, gambols about the pages and leaps out and grabs hold of you, never to let you go.
12 year old Douglas spent that summer exploring his small town and its people.
He started jotting down his "discoveries and revelations" in a notepad so that he won't forget about them.
We through him met extraordinary people of this small town.
A man adamant on making a Happiness Machine, an old woman who thought that she had met her lover from her past life, going away of a dear friend, last ride on the trolley, and magical kitchen and many more stories.
this was my first Bradbury and it won't be my last.
Review originally posted on A Skeptical Reader. Some people turn sad awfully young. No special reason, it seems, but they seem almost to be born that way. They bruise easier, tire faster, cry quicker, remember longer and, as I say, get sadder younger than anyone else in the world. I know, for I'm one of them. In a serendipitous moment, I discovered this quote on my friend Sookie’s favorited quotes page and instantly began craving the book. I was left pondering over these words for days and weeks
And when I finally got my copy in mail, I devoured the whole novel and was still left wanting more.Dandelion Wine is a fictionalized story of Ray Bradbury’s own childhood growing up in Waukegan, Illinois in 1920s.
Throughout the course of the novel I kept flashing back to my own childhood and I saw that part of my life in a way I had never done so before.While this is an emotional read, it’s not one where I found myself deeply attached to a lot of characters.
I love it, I adore it, I want the whole world to read it.
And all of this, this breath-warmness and plum-tenderness was held forever in one miracle of photographic is chemistry which no clock winds could blow upon to change one hour or one second; this fine first cool white snow would never melt, but live a thousand summers.” The book is episodic, a series of autobiographically fictional vignettes based on Bradbury’s Waukegan 1928 life, which is not to say it doesn’t develop and grow as a narrative of Doug’s coming of age summer.
I bet Gaiman owes something to Bradbury in this book, not the least a deep sense of the human and a meditation on the passage of time and memory, all within the context of fantasy/horror/magic.The sequel, which I recently read, is Something Wicked This Ways Comes, which ups the darkness quotient.
The book paints a picture of a time when one walked or took a trolley around town, talked with friends and family on a large front porch, had a soda or ice cream at a drugstore fountain, and listened to grandfathers and grandmothers tell tales of other worlds and earlier eras.
The book, visiting many of the residents of Green Town, Ill., is a mixture of colorful writing, nostalgia and -- not really "magical realism." Rather, realistic magic, the literary display through the eyes of childhood wonder of the miracles of everyday life that we almost always overlook as adults.
Reading this book feels like how the beginning of summer feels, with all of the traditions to relive and new experiences to come. Most of the book is seen through the eyes of a 12 year old boy, so it also brings on many feelings of nostalgia, and the glorious freedom of being a kid in the summertime. That being said, I feel like something was missing in order for me to love this book, but as a quick summer read with a few insightful bits, this was pretty decent. Not my favorite Bradbury, but definitely still worth reading!

I haven't written a review for it yet because I feel too much pressure to capture in words how I feel about this magical book.
So why is this my favorite book?
It captures the complex and wonderful relationship a child can have with his grandparents.
No words can describe my grandma and grandpa, and I suspect some of you feel similarly about yours.
The grandparents in Dandelion Wine are the perfect blend of warmth, intelligence, experience, and deep love.
For that alone, I love the book.
So read the book and learn about a youngish reporter and his relationship with an "older" woman.
Sparkling and witty, a remarkable read.
For those who loved Boy's Life from McCammon or any other book aimed at adults about childhood memories, this is highly recommended.
Somewhere between a set of short stories and a fully fledged book, it tracks summer events for a group of characters.
It does lend it a somewhat disjointed feel but it doesn't take away from Bradbury's ability to hit you right in the soul with beautiful sentences.
Long before you hit the grass you will have forgotten there ever was a tree, or other apples, or a summer, or green grass below.
Bradbury has given the world a fine masterpiece of literature in “Dandelion Wine.” The story follows the life of a boy, Douglas Spaulding, and his friends and family, in summer of 1928.
Amazing.” Writers learn to pull stories from personal experiences.
That moment you leaned in and kissed that special person and remember the feel of your first lovers lips on yours, and thinking, “Her (or his) lips, so soft, so luscious, so tender.” You take that experience and conjoin it into intimate union with your imagination, and the result explodes in the readers mind with power.
He evokes emotions buried deep within me, every damn time.
I must admit I didn't quite know where the plot was going some of the time (I felt it meandered a good deal), but I'm not sure if that was just me not understanding, or the book failing to engage me at certain points.
Those times were few and far between, however!
Bradbury uses the season and locale to his advantage, making it all come alive with his pen.
While a little confusing at times, this deeply poetic novel is one to be read and treasured.
Ray Bradbury's classic about Douglas Spaulding growing up in 1928 small town America , where every year his Grandfather makes his famous Dandelion Wine, capturing the taste of Summer in every bottle. Loosely based on his own life. The audio version was like listening to an old time radio show. YA, fun..... 4 stars.
I mustn’t forget, I’m alive, I know I’m alive, I mustn’t forget it tonight or tomorrow or the day after that.
"I’ve always known that the quality of love was the mind, even though the body sometimes refuses this knowledge.
The body lives for itself.
But what of the mind which is born of the sun […] and must spend thousands of hours of a lifetime awake and aware?
Can you balance off the body, that pitiful, selfish thing of night against a whole lifetime of sun and intellect?
*Time is so strange and life is twice as strange.
But for all its prosaic setting, ordinary events, and grounding in reality, Bradbury manages to infuse it with a profound sense of wonder and "magic" --not the magic of supernatural fiction, but the magic of a normal kid looking at a world that's full of excitement and possibilities, mystery and adventure, where the familiar doesn't mean humdrum.
Not all of the book is sweetness and light; even the bucolic world of 1928 Greentown could hold the macabre and menacing that's part of reality, too (and one chapter very clearly brings out the human psychological need for scary mythology).
