https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/248665.A_Spy_in_the_House_of_Love
I want to take a moonbath
What is she?”I’ve read Anaïs Nin’s “Journal of a Wife” (The Early Diary of Anaïs Nin, 1923-27), followed by her seven journals (magnificent insight into a woman’s mind and for which she is remembered today), and also the “Delta of Venus” (erotica at its best), but when I came to try and analyze what I felt and why I liked “A Spy in the House of Love”, I was at a loss where to begin.
Maybe because I expected a much simpler tale or maybe because I had higher expectations about what this book would be like, but somehow I couldn't help but feeling deceived by this story.The short summary at the back cover seemed promising enough: a haunted woman, Sabina, who is unable to remain faithful to her husband Alan.
I thought the writer tried too hard, sometimes you got lost with her long descriptions of Sabina's red dresses or the feelings she shared with each of her lovers.

He said that love stories were always about couples getting together and almost never about their lives after, about people who have been in love.
I remember another old thing about what happens when the you that is you around other people collides with the you that is you around different other people.
Sabina is the films that are about people before they fall in love and never about the people who are already together.
The young Sabina mistakes an unrestrained life for the story that is always beginning.
I would have felt nothing for the book if it didn't feel so life-like tired.
My first Anais Nin book so i did'nt know what to expect really.But what i discovered was a beautiful

A meu ver a obra tem um argumento com tudo para dar um livro interessante, no mínimo "agitante": uma mulher que apesar de viver com um homem que a ama decide ausentar-se, de vez em quando, alegando razões profissionais, mas tudo o que faz nesses períodos é experimentar o amor de outros homens, sem qualquer espécie de relação de qualquer tipo...
E é isto.*"Como ela aprendera a fazer desaparecer cartas de amor pelo lavabo, a não deixar cabelos no pente emprestado, a reunir os ganchos do cabelo, a apagar vestígios de baton em toda a parte, a sacudir nuvens de pó de arroz.
What I remember most from my first reading of this book is the feeling of disappointment when I was done.
That there was no resolution, no final report,and not even a character I could bond with.In fact, the characters rather repelled me.They seemed to lack substance.
From the perspective of years,I can see how I may have been vastly put off and unwilling to face the issues that AN raises,that I in fact was facing myself.
This was a 30-year old woman's personal "definition" of sexual liberation, of sleeping in different beds, underneath different bodies all the while with a husband at home.
A Spy in the House of Love was a never ending whirlwind of guilt, awakened daddy issues, and transient passion amongst different problematic men.
It all seemed a farce, a negative representation of what woman sexual liberation should be (which I personally think I should read more about).
By the end, A Spy in the House of Love cowardly hid itself behind 'love' to elevate itself for the sake of it.
The theme of this book is infidelity - Sabina, the main character, commits infidelity and it's about her thoughts and experiences about that.
Therefore, my experience of Nin is mixed.
However, above all Nin's writing is unlike most other writers and interesting for that, if like a drunk and intoxicating mystery that I go to but then the substance often disappoints me when I do, but it's about chasing the dragon.
I think that Nin's writing is always outstanding. This was no different. The story was not erotic at all, but followed Sabine, who has multiple love affairs. It gives you a glimpse of her guilt and her thought processes. I found it quite sad actually, as it seems like she felt estranged from everything and was never contented.
There may have been a fifth, but it was in the past or something of the sort (I really stopped giving a damn and skipped pages towards the end).Sabina mostly waxes poetic about her anxiety that she might be caught and thinks about how amazingly wonderful her husband is, and how she loves going back to him because he's so kind - but he's kind of like a father to her, and she's kind of like her own scoundrel of a father who kept sleeping around, and blablabla-look-at-me-jumping-out-of-the-tower-of-loneliness-into-the-abyss-of-love-to-be-shattered-into-pieces-and-suffer.Oh, and the lie detector?
Let me say right of the bat that I have a particular soft spot for poetic, beautiful writing - which undeniably this book delivered.
With that said, the story was not very compelling for me and instead of being thoroughly entranced like I usually am in books with this type of language, I instead felt myself reading bits and pieces here and there when I felt in the mood.
Just when I felt as if I was beginning to understand her thoughts, motivations and patterns the book just ended.
For me the beauty of Nin's language and writing was one of its few saving graces.
I wouldn't advise reading this if you are working the nightshift in a Siberian coalmine: these are strictly poor-little-rich-girl problems.But that's not to say that Sabina isn't very unhappy and deserving of our sympathy, and that Nin doesn't write very well.
I just think Mary McCarthy probably did it better: a sense of humour, and characters taking themselves a bit less seriously.
There's no escaping that Sabina's problems could have been solved by either:a) A job.
Thinking of taglines between the blowjobs would be more healthy than wringing her hands about who she is.b) A sassy (gay) friend: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sJLvl9...
I was sort of sticking around to find out whether Sabina just really wanted lots of sex and all this "I am the morphing woman" thing was her sex-repressed way of justifying her sexual appetites, or if it was the other way around.
Ultimately, I suppose it doesn't really matter, and to pin it down to one or another would make the book little more than a psychological case study.
Mostly, her lifestyle (and Nin's prose) seemed exhausting, and made me very happy to be in my jammies at night, cuddling with my laptop and my dog, instead of roaming the city in search of metaphor-spewing orgasms.But you do you, Anais.
Read a sample of her diary in a comic book anthology I own.
I feel like I made the mistake reading an authors wok in chronological order this time.
Most of the times I try to do that to see how a writer writes, but I felt like I was missing something with this one.
Is there a book before I'm missing?I still love Nin's writing style in this.
Loved a lot of the quotes and like her word choices.
But I do love her writing.If you liked her I suggest you read Henry Miller and D.
First Anais Nin I've ever read...basically, the story of a woman who is deeply vulnerable and unstable.
Throughout the story, Sabina slips in and out of sexual encounters with different men although she seems to derive her deepest happiness from a man named Alan, who represents somewhat of a father figure.
Although she deeply admires him and even might love him, Sabina is so unstable that she cannot seem to stop her infidelities, even though she is racked with guilt and paranoia afterward.
I wanted so deeply to enjoy this book and, for the most part, I did but I was left wanting a bit more.
I know no one who evokes the extremes of emotion and physical sensation as convincingly as Anaïs Nin. Exactly that might be the problem.
Her writing style therefore can be quite baroque at best, flowery at worst.
Perhaps this is exactly Nin's charm; exactly the thing that makes me return to her.
I feel like you cannot read her books without being prepared to succumb to her energetic pace and the density of her writing style.
It is exactly that density that reveals a fragile intimacy - a gate if you will - able to reveal parts of life you're only hesitant to admit existed, let alone aspire to.
Having already read one of Nin's erotic short story collections, I (wrongly) presumed that this novel was a similar type of work.
Sabina moves between her sheltered, relatively happy life with Alan to her restless wanderings of nightclubs, the beach and Mambo's club.
During the course of this short novel we meet three of her men.
My favourite is the flyer from the war who has seen death and like Sabina can't live a normal life.
My one complaint is that the back cover says Sabina is a firebrand of New York's 1950s but within the text it appears the war is still ongoing.
At page 7: What on earth is this ridiculously stylised...
blather?At page 30: Okay...
I can't stop...By page 123: Thank goodness that's over!At times the language is descriptive and lovely, like a blend of feminist Angela Carter and the most flowery of prose (maybe Wilde's in A Picture of Dorian Grey?).At others, a pretentious, run-on sentence a paragraph long or a heavy-handed reference to the repugnant main character's "fragmented self" "gleams off the page".
It's like you gave a teen some psychoanalysis and a deadline for the next day to have written fiction about it.Won't be reading any more of Nin any time soon, but she certainly was quite the experience.

Anais Nin is brilliant at capturing the essence of female sensuality, mystery and complexity. Reading Nin feels like taking a warm, candle-lit bath while drinking a glass of good red wine.
I wanted to be Anais Nin... couldn't manage the eyelashes. Prefer her fiction to her diary, and this is my favorite--the ghost of June Miller everywhere here.
“You haven’t loved yet,” he said. “You’ve only been trying to love; beginning to love. Trust alone is not love, illusion is not love, desire alone is not love. All these were paths leading you out of yourself, it is true, and so you thought they led to another, but you never reached the other. You were only on the way.” Full review is available at https://literatureisliving.wordpress....
I thought maybe Iif I were more aware of the time pasing I would feel like a spy with her, as opposed to a detatched observer.
I suppose the style echoes (or vice-versa) the way Sabina storytells to her friends that materialize in the last chapter or two, and it would make sense for the reader to not really know her.
We know what she wears, but not what she looks like.
I guess you can't ever really know a spy.I was confused by the last line, about the cure for crying when she hears music-?
I can not change the mind of one who dismisses this book because they are not interested in her life and her experiences.
A Spy In The House of Love is very much Sabina's mental anguish, her uncertainty and her conscience wrestling within itself and if you've no interest in her, you will not be interested in her story.This is a book about a woman who, quite simply, has affairs.
I find stories about women who escape bad relationships in the arms of other men.
The men she is with are not the loves of her life.
I'm sure it's not the only book out there that covers this topic, but it's the only one I've read, where a woman who sleeps around is neither a slut nor a whore, but simply a lost being who is in search of love and who thinks that sex can be transformed into it.
Basically, it's the kind of book everyone needs to read to understand that woman who sleeps around isn't just in need of attention, but might be missing something profound in herself that she seeks to find.
It's the kind of book that shows you that it's not only the male heroes who feel discontent.

I really liked the portrayal of a woman being multifaceted and feeling pulled in different directions. Sabina was a character I think most women could relate to. Often I can see myself in different roles in life, or choosing different pathways. Sabina's struggles with choosing one role and not feeling like she is betraying another part of herself, or other people, is something I think made me as the reader feel connected to her. Excellent read. I also enjoyed the vocabulary used in this book.
