https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92871.Brothers_Majere
Raistlin, Raistlin, Raistlin! I am a Raistlin fan boy. He is simply the only character that has kept me reading Dragonlance books so far. This book takes place between Brothers in Arms and Dragons of Autumn Twilight. Raistlin, Caramon, and Tasslehoff's cousin Earwig Lockpicker journey to Mereklar. Legend has it that as long as there are plenty of cats in Mereklar the city will be protected, but that cats are disappearing at an alarming rate. They unravel a mystery with the aid of the Cat Lord Bast. A must read if you love Raistlin.
Raistlin, Caramon and a kender, What a perfect mix! What starts out to be a mediocre story about lost cats actually turns out to be one of my favorite Dragonlance adventures. Caramon and the lich was the best!
Es terrible, pero al menos es mejor que los libros de Tanis y Tas. Sólo tiene dos estrellas por eso, porque este lo he podido terminar.
Raistlin como en los demás libros y eso me gustaba, pero no sé en qué punto comenzó a ir todo cuesta abajo y acabó siendo una parodia de sí mismo.
El supuesto misterio del libro no era misterio ninguno y el modo de llevar la trama demasiado cuestionable y soporífero.Lo describen todo al más mínimo detalle, se ve que para rellenar espacio, porque luego todo eso no tiene propósito ninguno.
Nevertheless Stein has done an excellent job of walking the road between those rocky hard places and delivering a tale that’s satisfying, fun and true to the characters as they were created.
The trouble is, whilst Stein does indeed create a tale well worthy of the reading, as a prelude to the Dragonlance Chronicles it doesn’t work.
The pacing of the book is excellent and Stein resists the temptation to throw too much at the reader in one go, and as far as a light-reader can manage, I think a good atmosphere is created.It’s a shame that the climactic showdown isn’t as well drawn.
As always really enjoyed reading about some of the companions who I have left for such a long time now, and the majere brothers are great favourites of mine.
I hate the way Raistlin treats Caramon all the time, ordering him about and being so unappreciative of all he does for him but when Caramon is hurt Raistlin shows another side to his character and gently tends to his twin!!
The evil demons as always get ousted but this time they are ousted by the cats who where the protectors of the town and the cat lord is awesome but then I love cats of all shapes, colours and size so maybe I was prejudiced in my enjoyment of this book!!
First prelude that actually was really well written and did not have spoilers for main series. Book makes reader feel the emotionally charged relationship Majere twins have and it is better than original series in that aspect.
Raistlin, Caramon ve bir kenderin bulunduğu bir yolculuğun keyifli olmaması büyük bir hayal kırıklığı olurdu ama neyseki olmadı.
Üstelik kenderleri birkez daha sevdim.
Fakat bu romanı iyi bir kitap yapmıyor.
Bunu iki sebepten söylüyorum: Birincisi yaşanan olayın herhangi bir RPG oyunundaki yan görev gibi hissettirmesi, ikincisi ise karakterlerin kişiliklerini gayet iyi bildiğinizden yaşanacak şeyleri tahmin edebilmek.
Aslında karakterlerin kişiliklerine sağdık yazılmış hoş bir şey ama insan farklı bir şeyler arıyor.Son olarak şunu söylemeliyim.
Bu kitap kronolojik olarak Mızrak Destanı'nın 5-6 yıl öncesinde geçsede Efsaneler Serisi'nden sonra okunması gerekiyor.
Çünkü Ikizlerin Sınavından ciddi bir spoiler içermekle beraber bazı göndermelere sahip.
They are on an adventure to find the missing cats of Mereklar.
So Raistlin and Caramon decide to go and find the cats for prize money.
An example of this is that the twins(Rastlin and Caramon) trust Councilor Shavas and she ends up being an evil un-dead witch.
Another example is they also trust the leaders of the city and they end up being demons.
The last example is, Caramon trusts Earwig while he, Earwig, has an evil ring on his finger and ends up getting almost murdered by Earwig because he was possessed by the Dark Queen.
BROTHERS MAJERE is far from a great book, but I think I enjoyed it purely because it's a lot better than the other Dragonlance Preludes I've read so far (such as KENDERMORE).
Luckily, Raistlin is by far the most interesting character in the whole Dragonlance universe, so Kevin Stein had things a little easier than the person who wrote KENDERMORE, for example.This is an atypical adventure that reads like more of a detective story.
Caramon and Raistlin are assigned to investigate the mystery of some disappearing cats (sounds like an Enid Blyton story, I know) in a sinister city.
This is an older attempt at continuing the story of Raistlin Magere: the early years that has mostly been made obsolete by the later installments by Margaret Weis in the Raistlin Chronicles.
This particular work of the preludes remains interesting mostly as a study in what happens when characters in a series are placed in the hands of new authors: the dynamic between the twins is very different in this work from any others written by the two lead authors on the series.
It's not a terrible book by any means, but as part of the Dragonlance story it fails to entice.
Maybe the plot was a little convoluted, and maybe the cats part was just kind of weird, but this book was actually pretty good overall. Okay...maybe I also wasn't overly fond of the kender (because only Tas is bearable) and his parts took up too large a percentage of the book. I don't think I really have any complaints outside of the above written.I completely love that (view spoiler)[Caramon banged a zombie. Serves him right for being a slut. (hide spoiler)] I think I was supposed to feel bad a
Maybe the plot was a little convoluted, and maybe the cats part was just kind of weird, but this book was actually pretty good overall.
Okay...maybe I also wasn't overly fond of the kender (because only Tas is bearable) and his parts took up too large a percentage of the book.
I don't think I really have any complaints outside of the above written.I completely love that (view spoiler)[Caramon banged a zombie.
Overall, there seemed to be an accurate treatment of the characters, which is good since I love the Raistlin/Caramon dynamic, especially when it gets complicated.
That's how good this book was, I read it all in a few hours.
I am extremely biased because there were cats and a Cat Lord in this along with my favorite Dragonlance character: Raistlin.
so I almost feel this is the strongest in the series, which would hold it at a steady 3 ish stars but I popped it up to 4 solely for the Cat Lord and the cats...
Dragonlance series has an issue with having low diversity and super hetero-storylines and Raistlin is one of the few characters that generally escapes their super hetero-storylines but this book was a bit pushy making him seem attracted to someone (though there was a reason, but still).
I love all the Majere stories, but this one has some odd parts.There are meta-references I am highly uncomfortable with, and modern references that don't even make sense.This particular author does employ the use of introducing re-occurring themes/objects/people in quite a better way than Weis/Hickman, but the story doesn't flow the same as the staple Dragonlance books. This unfortunately makes it feel out of place, with many paragraphs I wound up speed-reading for their redundancies, and it was very rushed towards the end.
Sebbene sia da un po di tempo che non leggo più dragonlance, non mi è dispiaciuto. la "lotta" tra i gemelli per conquistare una dama è una caratteristica che non ho mai incontrato prima. la narrazione ai concentra più sulla descrizione degli stati d'animo che sui combattimenti de gemelli. Poi c'è un nuovo kender...
This was the first attempt to write a novel about the brothers Majere but another writer. It was a good story but it felt that the Brothers were not the ones Weis and Hickman wrote. Nevertheless it was a good mystery good about the twins growth after separating from the group.Nevertheless it was good to pass a little time with Raistlin.
Brothers Majere is about Caramon and Raistlin Majere, along with a Kender, saving cats and townspeople from demons and the Dark queen. A witch tries to stop them, but ultimatley, very nearly succeds.
For those of you who can't get enough of the twins here's a story full of good old fashioned adventuring, damsels and the queen of darkness. Throw in a kender for good measure and you've got the makings of one heck of an afternoon jaunt in your comfy chair.
It was a fantastic adventure story featuring my favourite characters from the Dragonlance series. It had plenty of action and adventure and is a great read for fans of the Dragonlance series.
Definitely a keeper. Good solid fantasy fun. =)
good read
Les débuts des frères Majere, un récit intéressant et pleins d'action.
At last it ended. My thoughts summed up in one quote: "'And alcohol', Raistlin concluded."
I don’t understand a damn thing!”The quote above pretty much sums up how I feel about this book.
They find a post looking for someone to help the town of Mereklar solve the mystery of their missing cats.
The brothers and the Kender are hired to solve the mystery and return the cats to the city.
But someone in the city doesn’t want the cats to return and are willing to kill to make sure that doesn’t happen.I read this book about twenty years ago, but for the life of me I could not remember anything about it.
I may not be qualified to rate this accurately; I've been away from the series too long, and Raistlin- well, some things never change.
Tunnel-vision adoration for his archetype is one, and he was the first.
The character feels like home.The action sequences were not to my liking, and it sort of train-crashed at the end, but I can't bring myself to care.
Yes, bringing in The Queen of Darkness herself so soon feels a touch melodramatic, but it's Raist, so ok.
It sort of works for him.
Why not save the world from the powers of darkness on a whim of a chance detour?
Le pongo el dos porque el principio no estaba mal...Pero luego uff, se vuelve muy pesado y los personajes no parecen ellos. Lo recordaba mejor cuando lo leí hace años.
It's nice to spend a little more time with Raist and Caramon, and Earwig is an interesting Kender, but I thought this book was written quite poorly.
Stein is far too in love with gerunds than is healthy, and Raistlin doesn't really have to end every single sentence he says to Caramon with "my brother." Overall the writing is clunky, it has a rhythm like a triangular wheel.
The book does get the characters right most of the time, and it has one really great sequence of Raistlin making a potion.
The demi-god of cats is an interesting character, I'd like to see more of him.
I'm pleased to return to the world of Krynn once again despite this book not being as enjoyable as I'd hoped it would be.
I only kept reading because I wanted to confirm Shavas was what I thought she was even though she wasn't an interesting character.
Still Raistlin revealing the truth about his brother's latest conquest made me laugh.
I cannot count the times the companions went into a bar, had a drink, looked around the city and returned to the inn because Raistling got tired.
The repetitions were agonizing to read.
Raistlin deserves better stories.
This is by far the best book of the Preludes.
Granted, the brothers Raistlin and Caramon are strong personas in their own right, but the author manages to stay quite true to their characters - some liberties have been taken but then this is pre-Chronicles so they're supposed to be younger - I think the author succeeded on achieving a good balance of love and animosity between the brothers.
The plot itself is intriguing - more a mystery-to-solve than a typical fantasy quest-type adventure, giving it a feel somewhat akin to Sherlock Holmes.

A story set in the Dragonlance realm.
This is the story of the twins Raistlin and Caramon before the original trilogy.
Cats are disappearing in a town and the twins investigate.
I know the premise sounds pathetic for a story, this is a good story.
The author nailed the characters which is vital.
There is a kender (Tas' cousin) which is good for a laugh and the story works to an exciting conclusion.
I didn't give this a higher rating because I thought the author did not explain some minor points but if you are a fan of Dragonlance, I recommend this book.
