https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/180426.Dark_Desire
5 Wild Man StarsFirst read June 2012 Reread January 10, 2016Reread January 22, 2017Some Spoilers "You aren't getting ready to bite me again, are you? I've got to tell you, there isn't a place on my body that isn't sore." She flashed him a wan smile. "Just out of curiosity, your rabies shots are up to date, aren't they?" -SheaDark Desire the 2nd book in the Dark Series was better then the first book. This book was darker, but I loved Jacques and Shea more than I did Raven and Mikhail which is say
This book was darker, but I loved Jacques and Shea more than I did Raven and Mikhail which is saying a lot.
Of course even though he was darker, he was still sweet, sexy, playful, and charming!I want you with every cell in my body, with my mind and my heart.
Take me into your soul and let me live there." -JacquesI loved Shea.
I loved getting to see Mikhail and Raven again and getting caught up on their life since this book takes place 25 years after the first book.
But if they’re hiding out in a secret Carpathian cave and they are immediately overcome by a wave of lust and can’t even remove all their clothes before going horizontal, the Laws of Blue Jeans Physics makes having sex impossible if both her ankles are encased in denim.
And Jacques explains that he doesn’t remember anything about his past, but exhibits the very Carpathianesque tendency of demanding outrageous loyalty from his lifemate (which she is) even though she has no f%cking clue where he’s coming from or what he’s going on about.
Jacques and Shea get involved with his Carpathian family and begin working together to kill the bad vampire.
Much like the heroes in this book.
Total nutjobs.
And, while I admit that nutjobs can be entertaining sometimes, I just found this tedious.First of all, the caveman attitude of these not-vampires is annoying.
If we want a parasite, we will drink the water in Mexico.
We ask for bottled water when we visit, or we get our water in the form of alcohol because it will kill the parasite.
Yeah, that's why.The second issue with this book is the repetitiveness.
Life-bondmate's stuff was also mentioned 5,000 times.but, not in this case...And, my biggest issue was the same as in the first book.
I enjoyed Dark Prince but this book is just more of the same thing. I am Carpathian hierarchy and not a Vampire and still they are having problems getting a life-mate just wanted more drama more action, i was expecting more and i think this is where i do not go any further in the series. There are so many good books to read at the moment.
Man what an emotional book....his constant predatory watching eyes..heroine had nowhere to escape... She was glued to him and he made sure of that! What a Hero! Loyal, faithful, fiercely protective, possessive and attentive to every heroines needs... Some of the scenes were very graphic in nature and they made me a bit uncomfortable, especially the Heroes capture and the aftermath...my god what he had to go through and all that was done to him whilst he was alive! Poor Hero, the loneliness, the
Man what an emotional book....his constant predatory watching eyes..heroine had nowhere to escape...
Some of the scenes were very graphic in nature and they made me a bit uncomfortable, especially the Heroes capture and the aftermath...my god what he had to go through and all that was done to him whilst he was alive!
Poor Hero, the loneliness, the pain, the desperation was so real and depressing at times..I so wanted him to find his destined mate so much to ease the pain he was enduring on a daily basis for such a long time....The heroine was equally awesome and they supported each other day and light.
This a completely safe book.
Jacques Dubrinsky and Shea O'Halloran
I like the ideas behind this series, but the writing style puts me off a little. Too much of the focus is on the romance, and not enough on the events or the plot. It was very repetitive at times; again and again, we have to listen to beautiful Jacques thinks Shea is and how people are feeling toward one another. Normally I love that sort of thing, but it was too much for me. I also found the dialogue somewhat lacking. Still, I'm moderately into the series still. I'm most interested in reading Gregori's book.
I'm not sure why I'm compelled to read this series.  It's all talk and no action! Yes, this book is kinda uniqe in a world of vampires, written pretty well in an old-fashioned way, with a fiercely protective and possessive alpha hero and stubborn heroine. True mates trope with no OM/OW drama.But for the love of God, nothing happens. To summarize this book and the heroine:Mommy issues...Daddy issues...Carpathian lifestyle issues...Commitment issues....I will continue with this series in the futur
I'm not sure why I'm compelled to read this series. 
  It's all talk and no action!
Yes, this book is kinda uniqe in a world of vampires, written pretty well in an old-fashioned way, with a fiercely protective and possessive alpha hero and stubborn heroine. True mates trope with no OM/OW drama.But for the love of God, nothing happens. To summarize this book and the heroine:Mommy issues...Daddy issues...Carpathian lifestyle issues...Commitment issues....I will continue with this series in the future, I'm intrigued about the other Carpathians finding their lifemates.
I loved this book! So well written! Jacques was an awesome hero and I loved everything about him! Shea was a great heroine as well, but I did get a little tired of her wanting to leave Jacques. So far this series is wonderful!
★Book Basics★  Genre : - Paranormal Romance  Series : - Book 2 in the Series. Jacques is the brother of Mikhail from Dark Prince Writing  - Third person, Dual POV. Main Characters :Shea O'Halloran - a surgeon who is on the run, from "vampire" hunters. Is doing research into a blood disorder she thinks she has. Jacques Dubrinsky - Carpathian Male, tortured and trapped. He has a mental connection to Shea during his imprisonment. Tortured to the point of madness, he has no memories of his life befo
From when they make the mental connection, to years later, when Shea comes across his battered and tortured body, and saves him.Jacques walks the edge of madness and often does not know what he is doing.
Both damaged and wounded souls.Again, as book 1, not a huge set of characters, indeed even less so than in book 1, but we do see Mikhail, Raven, Gregori and Byron again.Having read the series before, these first few books are very much setting up the history of the "vampire" huntings starting again, and setting the basis for the "wars" beginning again for the Carpathian people!Book 1 is set 25 years before this one, and book 3 is another 25 years after book 2.
There is something about the way that Christine Feehan writes.
I find that I am becoming a big fan of vampire romance, and this book probably helped to push me over the edge.
Shea is probably just slightly less tortured, and she really gives herself and sacrifices herself for Jacques.
This book has some dark, violent moments, and you probably shouldn't read this if you are squeamish about violence.
Again, something about the way Feehan spins a yarn.
Do read this book if you like tortured heroes and determined, fiercely intelligent, good-hearted heroines.
*****4.5 Stars*****
I loved the continuation of the story, although I was a little lost until I figured out how long it had been since the end of book 1, Dark Prince.
After getting past all of that, there was the harder story about Jacques trying to fight insanity.
While I am dying to read Grigori's story (book 4) I do not want to miss the progression that the next book is sure to bring so I am going to resist skipping and move onto book 3.I know this may not sound like a great review, but it is a really good book.
I got a little frustrated with her around 60-70% when she got pretty overwhelmed with all that was happening, but realistically, I understood.Normally, I would not be okay with a book in which the hero actually hurts the heroine, but in Dark Desire, it was not as if Jacques was in his right mind when he hurt Shea.
Second of all (and most importantly), Jacques had no idea who he was, who Shea was, or what was really happening when he first met her.
Kind of liked it. This was super intense and gory with an unusual amount of violence for a novel that's primarily a romance. In fact, it was a little distracting and I couldn't really get into the love story of the two leads as much as I would've liked. Also, some chapters were a little boring/tedious to read with too much of an emphasis on the 'Carpathian' way of life. The H Jacques and the h Shea were ok and made a decent couple. Three stars.
3.5 stars
and finds ears in a female far away.7 years ago, medicine resident Shea woke up with the most excruciating pain of been "stabbed in the chest" and since then while she's become a surgeon, she hears and dreams of a male who unbending-ly keeps calling her to Carpathian mountain, while she's pursued by Hunters.
I'm getting used to these OTT males and merging of souls stuff.Midway, Jacques does get his memory and we meet familiar characters like Mikhail, Raven, Gregori et al and fight hunters and evil vampires who keep attacking Carpathians and their mated with help of our main couple.Overall, I enjoyed this more than book 1.Safe4/5
As a very devoted aunt to two nieces, it always niggles at me when I read something that I know requires a mature understanding of what a healthy relationship entails and what is just ok in fantasy.
Therefore, I did fairly recently give my oldest niece and her BFF a little talk about what they need to take into consideration if they do happen to sneak and read something like 50 Shades, which is not out of the realm of possibility with how hyped that is been and how curious teens are about the "forbidden".However, if you can understand the difference between what is healthy in real life vs.
Dark Desire is the Carpathian story of Jacques and Shea.Jacques story is extremely intense and incredibly brutal.
She visits the Carpathian mountains to continue her research and learn more about her father whom she has never met.Finding Jacques and saving him from the tomb he lived in, the battle of wills begins as she attempts to heal him.
She had to save him.This book is long and repetitious.
75% of this book is based on the struggles between Shea and Jacques and his mental state.
4.25 Beautiful love story starsI read this book years ago but never reviewed it.One of my favorite books by CF.
One of her early books so the sex was meh.
The writing was awesome.
I felt connected to the story.
I loved the H.
The h was ok she annoyed me because she didn't want the assholes to suffer or die.The h was everything to the H.
You could feel his love for her..(view spoiler)[ the H when he was out of his mind he did physically harm the h.
He had no idea he was hurting her.
(hide spoiler)]
The women are pathetic, the men are ridiculously needy, and the plotline is weak.
She digs Carpathian Jacques out of the wall and even though he attacks her she still feels the need to help him out.
Seriously, the women need to be much stronger than they are.
Least of all the characters, which for the most part seem to be a watered down Raven and Mikhail.Unless somebody does a decent job of convincing me that this series improves and I should continue reading, I am not sure I doubt i will attempt the next installments.
While this installment of the Carpathians is engaging, it didn't live up to the first. It is darker, Jacques (who is the charming younger brother in book one) has been held and tortured for sevens years and left for dead. He comes out of the experience barely hanging on to his sanity and with a vicious streak a mile wide. The story still has it's twists and turns along with an interesting (if rather dysfunctional) love story, which keeps it moving and would earn it a 3.5 star rating.
The Carpathian race is so interesting and the premise is intriguing.What I can’t get past in these books is the physical and emotional manipulation of the female protagonists through sexual pleasure.
The Carpathian race is predominately male.
The males force their will onto the females, through a mental connection, when they are either not listening to them or “not seeing reason”, instead of talking with them because that “takes too much time”.
He uses this mental connection and coerce her, all the while, sexually stimulating her as well, to bend her to his will.
I read this years ago. Revisiting the series in audio.
No telling idiosyncrasies, no apparent Wooh-ha factor.Yet, this book, Jacques' story, started very well.
Jacques dueled w/ betrayal, loss, psychosis and obsession, and I still didn't get hot for Jacque, but I started to care for him.So, now I am rereading to clarify what exactly made this Dark book work 4 me.
I suspect, I was pulled by the heroine Shea O'Hallaran (her unique genetics), the growing human-vampire threat to the Carpathians, and the Carpathian world suffering myth-busters and complexities.At times, in this series(23 books & counting), some stories get tediously bogged down with lifemate chants(which are cool!!)--and spells-- and slow-building suspense.
I re-read the Dark books all the time(given much needed breaks , of course).Happy Reading!
Soooooo disappointed in this book. All the reviews I've read go on and on about how this is such a great vampire series. Frankly, the same complaints I had about Twilight could be applied to this book. The main character keeps telling everyone what a strong, independent person she is, but the whole book is about her doing whatever this guy wants, and usually against her will. And it's *creepy*. Not in the good way. In the weird Appalachian Deliverance kinda way.Overall, this book left me with a really icky feeling.
Audiobook - DNFI only got about 30% in. It was just drawn out and didn't hold my attention. I know some people really loved this, some hated it. Oh well. To each his own. Maybe if I had started with the first book instead I would have liked it better, but this was the earliest one available for audio at my library.
Shae and Jacques made a good couple and their story was enjoyable.Shea is a very skilled doctor and she's focused her talents on finding the cure to a rare blood disease she inherited from her father.
Shea is convinced that she just has a rare blood condition that she inherited from her father and she's determined to find the cure to save herself and others like her.
Shea quickly realizes that she could lose herself to Jacques the way her mother was lost to her father.
After his head started doing better I liked him much more and thought he was a pretty good hero.
This is based off a re-read.The Carpathian series is a little silly and repetitive, but they are guilty pleasure type books that get me in the mood to re-read sometimes.
Following Dark Prince, where Mikhail, the prince of the Carpathians found his lifemate in Raven, now it's Jacques's turn.
I admit I skimmed their sex scenes, didn't do anything for me since it's repetitive, but they didn't have nearly as many as in Dark Prince.
The reason this book is slapped with a four star rating over a three is because of so much Gregori, my personal favorite, and Mikhail and Raven.
Jacques and Shea Better than book 1, 4.5 stars
