https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1782811.Tales_From_Silver_Lands
His collection of nineteen Latin & South American folktales clocks in at a little over 200 pages, yet it took me nearly two months to force myself to read every blessed story.
The summary on the back of the book culminates with a flat-out lie: “…the best collection of stories you’ve ever read.”Really, Apple?Then what’s the deal with this girl on the book’s cover?I guarantee this will be the look on the face of any child who even cracks this book open.
All told: unless you’re a Newbery Completionist, as I intend to be, travel ye not to the Silver Lands.
Felt like I was falling down a mountain. I liked each short story less and less as the book went on. I tried to read them faster and faster.
Or, to put it another way, it is as wrong to cage a bird as it is to steal a child."""There was a moment when she wanted to lose all that she had gained so that she could tell her brother that she shared his grief, but she remembered that being strong she could help him in his pain, so she went to him and took him by the hand and kissed his cheek."From "The Hungry Old Witch":""It is not right," he said, "that we should give away for nothing that which we have grown and tended and learned to love, nor is it right that we should feed and fatten the evil thing that destroys us.""From "The Wonderful Mirror":"Thus it was that Suso crept to quiet places and told her tale to the whispering leaves and to the evening breeze, and thus it was that in the midst of all that beauty of golden sunlight and silver-glinted waters and flower-twined forest she could not but be sad.
And I think you can learn a lot about a society from their fairy tales and children's stories.This was a real treat for me to read, and one I'm definitely looking forward to adding to my shelves and rereading, not only for myself but also to read to kids.
There's that sense of magic and possibility, where you know anything can happen, and although things might get a little rough along the way, and there probably won't be super happy ending, the good guys do win in the end.I also noticed that the emphasis of each tale was placed on the struggles of each character rather than the resolution.
Actually, I'm not sure I can put this on my read shelf....since it went onto the very short list (only the 2nd book) of books that I absolutely couldn't finish!!!
I tried to skim through it, but it just was painful.
Each chapter is a little story/folktale from other countries (like how did the hummingbird get it's color, etc).
It felt like each chapter was so similar.
Maybe you could get through it if you read a chapter or 2 a day in between reading other books.
I just can't read that way.
I have to do one book at a time.
A collection of stories told to children and among adults in South America. The author collected them from the locals as he traveled among them. I had great fun reading the book and delighted in how different the stories were from the ones I learned as a child. My favorite was the story of Nasca and the fox-faced man. But I won't tell you which one that is. To find out, you will have to read the stories.
This isn't as bad as you would assume it to be considering it's South American tales written down by a person not of the culture. Overall, these read like a mix of Aesop and Grimm. I actually enjoyed reading a lot of this and do recommend it for people who enjoy folktales.
Spooky wooden block printed illustrations and the most boring collection of folk lore short stories I’ve ever read.
I question the accuracy and agenda of Western authors who write books about other cultures, even more so when they are being written as far back as 1924. That being said, I enjoyed Tales from Silver Lands more than I expected to, and I think anyone who enjoys Grimm or Aesop would enjoy it too. I wish reading aloud to children was still a thing, because these tales probably would have captured my imagination as a child, though I think my children now would be bored sitting and listening when they could be watching Youtube instead.
This book has 19 folk and fairy tales from Finger’s travels in South America.
I am a total sucker for fairy tales so about this book: I loved it.
It took longer to read for a variety of reasons, all of them having to do with my life, not the book.
It was a real pleasure to read these stories.According to the Encyclopedia of Arkansas History & Culture, Charles J.
I found myself wondering if these people knew how much he loved them.I’m trying to think of which story I liked best.
This 1925 Newbery Award winner is a collection of nineteen folk tales which the author, Charles J.
Finger, collected while journeying through Central and South America.
Some people will like them while others will not.
As is true of even Western “fairy tales,” many believers object to reading about such things related to enchantment and thus would want to avoid books like this.
Admittedly, the book has an overall “dark” feel to it, but as one who has always liked learning about the folklore of different cultures, I somewhat enjoyed it.
And the Newbery read/re-read continues.
This is another early one.
We used to take our kids to storytellers.
So I've some familiarity with Anansi and Coyote tales.
One of the challenges with these stories is that what works in the oral tradition doesn't necessarily work as well in the written.
And where one of these stories might be a treat, nineteen of these stories are an annoyance.
And an inconsistent annoyance, because a few were okay, and some left me wanting more.
And yet would probably work as a single story though without pictures.
Newbery Medal Winner--1925A collection of tales gathered by the author during trips through South America, Tales From Silver Lands is an interesting mix of stories. Many remind me of the North American Natives' explanation stories--they include things like why the flamingo is pink and red, how seals and monkeys came into existence, etc. I really think most of the stories would be much more interesting read aloud--I havea feeling they lose some of the magic without the traditional story-telling aspect. My favorite was "The Wonderful Mirror", which of all the stories read the most like a fairy tale.
Mixed opinion: I liked how different some of the tales were from the tales I had grown up with, but 
As far as a collection of fairy-esque tales go, it was pretty charming. The stories get a little redundant (evil witch! enchanted animal!) if you read them in bulk, but the writing is easy to go with. Some tales stuck with me stronger than others, but most are fun to retell -just because of their level of absurdity. Even with a few boring bits, I think the cute pieces can pull the weight without too much trouble.
I read these stories one at at time here and there and I found them to be of mixed quality. Some were lovely and interesting and others were gruesome and didn't seem to have much of a point or moral. I did find the South American setting of the stories interesting as that flavored the stories and made them quite different. For modern audiences, I can see this as a nice read-aloud to children although parents would need to do some explaining about some of the stories.
A very pleasant book of retellings of folktales from all over South America, first published in 1925. The elevated style hasn't aged much. However, comparison with other versions shows that Finger sometimes changed the stories a lot according to his idea of what was suitable for children, or other reasons of his own.
My motto to complete this Newbery odyssey: "I think I can, I think I can..."I have never been so ready to read books published in the 1950s!
Boring folk tales from South America. Couldn't finish this one - not with so many other things I want to read.
The pretensions and phrasing of the Edwardian Age make this a collection of folk tales that I both enjoyed, but cannot in good conscience recommend for anyone not already used to the stilted and elliptical pedantry of period children's books.
The cold open, where Finger meanders through a Honduran village and ends up hearing a story is a usual bit of business in folktale collections in the first half of the 20th century that is supposed to give the author credibility (they got the story from an actual person) and also provide the appropriate setting for the tale.
A mix of the good and bad that is usual to folk tale collections, and above average for its age.
Thanks to the Goodreads book summary, I know that these stories are folktales collected by Finger in South America.
Too bad the book never makes that clear!
We're left to wonder about the occasional introductions that seem to be in the author's voice ...
is this all fiction or just the tales?
So much richness could have resulted from a clear explanation of Finger's travels and his gathering of these tales.Otherwise, they were traditional folktales: evil witches and giants, tall slim youths with goodness in their hearts, talking animals, plenty of magic.
I think this would make good read-a-loud stories for children. I can readily imagine my nephews enjoying these stories in a way that most adults won't. This book made me think about folk tales in general, and how there are similarities globally among tales, yet regionally and culturally specific characteristics. You get a small glimpse into some of the worldview of a society when you listen to its tales.
Many of the earlier Newbery books have taken their lumps due to being out of date. Reading some of the Goodreads reviews on this one, it comes in for a lot of poor marks, too. I can't understand that. When I was a kid, we had a multi-volume collection of stories that were similar to these and I read them again and again. Of course, that would have been back in the '60s, and I suppose that tastes change, particularly children's tastes.
A collection of stories, folk tales, from Central and South America which earned the Newbery Medal for best children's literature in 1925. Aside from providing cultural background for a demographic I rarely interact with, this book had zero redeeming qualities. Perhaps the folk stories of my own culture are silly to others and I guess that's just fine. Tales From Silver Lands was muscled through by sheer determination to complete a list.
I had the hardest time finishing this book. I really wanted to like it, and can not understand how these folktales could be written in such as way that I can’t remember half of them. Someone should rewrite these stories because I think they could be really good. Someone else needs to illustrate them, too. The sparse woodcuts were depressing.
Ugh, this is the first Newbery book I really had to force myself to read. My eyes kept skimming over the text out of sheer boredom. I hope this is just one white man's interpretation of the tales (or maybe he made them up) because I just can't see people sharing these tales like most authentic oral tradition was shared.
I have nothing against folktales but this book of 19 stories from South America was tough to push my way through. I think it was the author’s writing style that made the stories not very engaging but it could have been that many of them were repetitive plots. Maybe had I spread out reading the 19 tales over more time they would have seemed more interesting.
I read this book as part of my ongoing goal to read all Newbery winners. The tales helped me to understand the culture and values of meso-america, and I enjoyed the peek into the lives of peoples who live so close.
I was not a fan of this book. The writing was very simple, and repetitive in flow, even for a children's book. It was very difficult to make it to the end. It would have been interesting if the author included all of the places/contexts that he found the stories.
A group of folk-type tales from Honduras. some were fun and interesting, some were very dry. I think it would be better read as individual stories and not a group.
