https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10912.Picture_Perfect
Alas, I always tout Picoult as an authur of "good reads" but this one is BADD....It can be compared to the paperback grocery store "bodice-busters". The story idea is OK, but the writing is? ? ? Where was the editor? The only good part was when the Native Americans were in the read. Don't go for this one. Sorry Ms. Picoult.
This was, by far, the WORST book I ever read.
I had a hard time getting into the previous Jodi Picoult book I read but after I got into it I enjoyed it.
I kept thinking to myself, maybe the next chapter will be better--it never was.The story line was extremely slow and in the beginning bounced back and forth between present day with Cassie's amnesia to her pathetic childhood; Will's Lakota childhood and why he ran away to L.A.; Alex's lies regarding his childhood to his present day status as a god in Hollywood.
I was so confused that by the time the book got to present day with Cassie regaining her memory I almost missed it.
this book was absolutely my favourite of jodi picoult's, something opposite from the other readers. even though the indian folklore were pretty boring, the exposure of marital physical abuse is more than real. it may be a "perfect fairy tale" type of story, but maybe that's because i'm one of those younger readers.
I typically love Jodi Picoult novels but this one was a huge let down.
She typically focuses on relevant topics and is able to capture the details of everyday life along with the real emotions her characters are dealing with; but Picture Perfect was nothing but a bad romance novel.
I have chosen Jodi Picoult’s books in the past because she is able to portray the emotions and issues people face when dealing with challenges that have not been part of my world.
Picture Perfect totally missed the mark for me, so much so that I'm starting to wonder if Jodi Picoult even wrote this novel.
I have to say Jodi Picoult is not my thing. After I read this book I feel like I am having amnesia just like the main character. Do not remember much of what is going on with this book.
It was the first book by this author I've read that had no lawyer or courthouse events, which was a bit of a breath of fresh air, but it did touch on a delicate situation: abuse and violence, a subject matter that's truly difficult to read, because you find yourself emphatizing with the one being abused but at the same time feeling some frustration at their seeming inability or unwillingness to do something about it.
In fact, the main character keeps justifying the abuse her husband rains on her, which is a well known behaviour of most abuse victims.I really enjoyed reading this one (I've yet to come across a book by this author I have no enjoyed, some more than others).
I rant against Jodi Picoult and I keep crawling back to her like a bad habit.
However, I liked the way she set up this story.
Letting you see the damage first so you knew that Alex was abusive before sweeping you up into their love story.
I think Picoult actually did a good job getting into the mind of an abused person.
Maybe she's suffered some kind of abuse herself, I don't know, but I did like how she made Alex such a stark contradiction.
So loving and charming- the absolute opposite of what most people would think an abusive husband would be like.
Picture Perfect, by Jodi Picoult, tells the story of Cassie, an anthropologist who’s married to the famous Alex Rivers, a movie star as talented as Daniel Day Lewis, as desired as George Clooney, and as handsome as both of those guys put together.
Also, I failed to understand what both Alex and Will saw in her, why they both were so hopelessly in love with this woman.Yet, despite my complaint, I still think Picture Perfect is a great story.
Mais uma vez Jodi Picoult aborda um tema pesado e com cenas chocantes que tem feito aumentar a já enorme legião de fãs.Em Ilusão Perfeita a autora conta-nos a história de Cassie uma antropóloga inteligente, que trabalha para a UCLA, e de Alex Rivers, um conceituado actor de Hollywood, lindo de morrer, o sonho de qualquer mulher.Pelo meio conhecemos também o seio da comunidade dos índios Sioux, uma comunidade fechada, mas deslumbrante.Quando, ainda amnésica que lhe dizem que é casada com o famoso Alex Rivers, Cassie nem quer acreditar.
Mas será a sua vida um conto de fadas?
A violência doméstica é aqui relatada ao pormenor e não escolhe estratos sociais.
E o facto de, muitas vezes, a vítima voltar ao local do crime e desculpar o agressor, é aqui justificado muito bem.
I was filled to bursting now that he was standing in front of me, wondering how I hadn't noticed how very empty I had been.""...[his] hand pressed against my stomach, as if he could help me to carry our child.""You put your arms around me, giving me the simple beat of your heart to measure time.""I close my eyes, lean into your faith, and I let myself go.""...looking fresh and clean shaven and just as he did every morning when he came out of the bathroom and took her breath away.""It had taken [her] years to understand, but now she was a firm believer: love was that way - you could not render it in black and white.
While most of her novels that I've read have been compelling, topical and intelligent, Salem Falls and Picture Perfect could not be more cliched.
Picture Perfect tells of the marriage between an anthropologist and America's most popular matinee idol.
The worried but narcissistic husband has a penchant for flying off the handle, and we suspect that he is abusive (cliche #3.) The back story centers upon how and why the Native American became a cop, and is fluffed out with several native legends, which are the highlights of the novel.
After reading Picture Perfect I kind of feel nothing.
I'm kind of numb and no, not numb in a good way.
I'm numb because I barely remember what I just read.
The characters weren't memorable to me and I have no idea how I feel about that!
I wish I could remember what I wrote or what the characters did throughout the story.
But I can't because that would be lying and this would be a terrible review.I apologize to every book I've read this week.
I apologize to all of the previous books I've read by Jodi.
Até que a memória regressa!Neste "Ilusão Perfeita" falta o típico dilema moral que Picoult me habituou noutros livros.
Não temos de nos pormos a escolher entre dois lados de uma balança.
Falta qualquer coisa nesta história e mesmo o final sendo mais próximo àquilo a que é habitual suceder nos livros dela, não é totalmente fechado nem conclusivo o que, na minha opinião, este tipo de enredo merecia.Não digo que não irão gostar do livro.
Mas, os fãs de Picoult não vão encontrar nestas páginas a sua marca, o seu cunho!
This book did not hold my attention, the native Indian stories were interesting but did not seem to really fit.
I am always impressed by Jodi Picoult.
This is my 4th book by her, but - unfortunately - my least favorite.
But she still grabs my attention and interest and holds on to it.
Another thing that amazes me about Picoult is how she can make a subject matter that I do not want to read about engaging and entertaining.
Whether it is a former Nazi (as in The Storyteller) or a skinhead (as in Small Great Things) or an abusive husband in this book, they are not two-dimensional.
I will definitely have to read more of her work.
Not as engaging as much of Picoult's writing. I enjoyed the first and the last part. All the back story, although necessary seemed overly long.
This was a thrift store score that I hadn't heard of and didn't know what it was about, and it did a great job keeping me guessing.The story centers on Cassie and Alex, an intelligent but naive anthropology professor and a Hollywood star, and their "fairy tale" love and marriage.
Picoult's imagination and formidable skills at weaving an amazing story make you feel as though if, having never been in an abusive relationship, you are given a while new insight and appreciation for the situation, and why even the strongest of woman have had difficulty leaving such situations.
as a result, I just didn't get that feeling resonated within other Picoult books, whereby I literally could not stop reading, or stop thinking about the book when I'm not reading it.
The story plot had such great potential, but I feel as though Cassie's slow realisation of what was clearly obvious in the middle of the book, only fuelled my frustration of how everything in the book was dragging.
Although the 'read' and the flow of the book wasn't necessarily amazing, as with all Picoult novels, I learnt so many things of value to life.
In this one the protagonist Cassie is the victim of abuse at the hands of her beloved husband Alex.
The novel starts with Cassie being rescued form a cemetery suffering from amnesia by Will, a half Sioux Red Indian working as a policeman.
It turns out that she is the wife of Hollywood superstar Alex Rivers who takes her home to her wonderful mansion and helps her recall her life.
The contrasting lifestyle of Cassie and Alex compared with those of the Native American Indians make an interesting link expanding the story beyond straightforward abuse.
I spent most of the book thinking that it was going to focus on how difficult it is to honestly connect with someone who is constantly acting, or even maybe something about how the romance novels Cassie read during her marriage had contributed to her putting up with abuse.
But toward the end I realized that it was basically just a romance novel dressed up to look like something more serious.
Disappointing (and a romance novel would have cost less, frankly).
I was especially bothered by how Cassie's decision to "out" her husband as abusive was framed as her realizing that she had to make him hate her, because she would always love him...
This was my 8th Picoult novel and the first I've read with no courtroom drama.
I used to wonder why women would stay in such blatently abusive marriages and this book gave me a new perspective that I had never actually thought of before.
This is a must read Picoult, even if it is slow in the beginning.
The story, characters, cultures and back stories were well researched and developed giving the reader the feel that you are actually a part of the story, enduring all the hardship, love and emotion each of the characters are enduring themselves.
I was initially intrigued by this story: amnesia, a suspicious situation involving a movie star, a hot cop... but what I was left with was a main character who defined herself by the men in her life. I couldn't empathize with her as she rebounded between men while leaving a strong and rewarding career on the sidelines. It was painful to get through. Not my favorite.
*3.5*I guess I have a thing for stories where a woman is found somewhere without any memories on who she is, how she got there or who her husband is.This was a pretty good read and I especially appreciated Jodi Picoult's writing.
Well the author got that part about women always go back, make excuses etc when it comes to domestic violence. This is one of her earlier books and I can kind of tell by her writing (I think she has improved with time)The indian folklore stories were a different!
I now realize that I got this one mixed up with Perfect Match. Some people use the word perfect too much for me.
I first wanted to rate this as a 3 star book but then understood how much I liked reading it even though I didn't even like the main characters.
So, it's a 3,5 star book rounded up to 4.
And I'm going to read more of her books.I needed something like this to get rid of mind-blowing books' hangover I've been reading recently.
It was a good book to forget a long working day.
That means this is a simple book with a very common plot.
And that also means I need a holiday 😳P.S. Ok yesterday's hangover passed, it's a well-deserved 3 star book.
This was one of Jodi Picoult's early books, 1995. It wasn't her best effort. Much of it read like a cheap romance novel. Fortunately, Ms. Picoult's talent has grown, her writing has gotten better. My advice would be to skip this book and move on to her more recent ones.
It really upset me that that Jodi Piccoult took the very intense subject matter of domestic violence and set it up through such an unrealistic premise.
Ms. Piccoult makes it seem like Cassie and Alex found each other because they are the only two people in this world with more than one dimension.
I personally don’t have any experience with domestic violence to determine whether or not Piccoult accurately portrayed it, but based on her completely unrealistic depictions of many other things in the book, I have my doubts.
The cop, Will, who had recently moved to Hollywood, away from his native American roots, tries to stay in contact with Cassie as she remembers all that happened in her life and why she ran away.
Eventually she remembers her hurtful past as the wife of Alex and runs away to the Native American reserve where Will takes her so she can reflect on her life.
You learn about the life of a lone anthropologist, what it's like to be a star in Hollywood, and even some about Native American tribes.
I wish it hadn't taken me this long to read this book.
But I thank the author for making every turn of the page something I had to finish.
It has the suspense of reality, I could almost feel the characters fresh pain, the love, most of all the fear.
It was a revelation that sometimes no matter how much two people love each other, sometimes, they just dont belong together.I am hoping that there is more to this story, another book maybe, to bring to light the story if Connor and what happens with Will.
I will definitely be getting more books by Jodi Picoult.
