https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48757.The_Tao_of_Pooh
In fact the whole book was about the author trying to explain it to you, and you would say “oh.”“Oh.” Said Pooh.“From what I understand you are an un-carved block.”“Oh” said Pooh.“An un-carved what?”“I know, I don’t entirely get it either.
I wonder if he was trying to write these stories to illustrate Taoist philosophies, if so, he was more of a genius than I previously thought.Cute book, I listened to the audio version and it was well read.
The author took the stories and characters of A.A. Milne and juxtaposed them with the Taoist teachings of people such as Lao Tzu. Pooh as western Taoist starts off interestingly enough but halfway through it I came to the realization that it was making me want to just read the actual Milne, who was frankly probably a genius writer.
At one point he actually uses the example of (paraphrasing here) turning on the T.V. news to hear "`Thirty thousand people were killed today when five jumbo airliners collided over downtown Lose Angeles" *click* Stop worrying about everything and go about life.
Very cute, but I think this dragged on a little at times. It wasn't very memorable, and had it been so I think this would have made more of an impact on me.
By including Pooh and his friends while he wrote the book and having an ongoing dialogue with the residents of The Hundred Acre Wood while he presents his ideas, Hoff has given the reader a wonderfully imaginative and informative introduction to the principles of Taoism in friendly and easy to understand terms.
This book is charming and Hoff is a personable, approachable writer and I can easily understand why so many people have enjoyed the book.
Find this review at Scott Reads It Recipe for Tao of Pooh1.
The Tao of Pooh is a book that I loved whole heartily.
The Tao of Pooh helped me appreciate Taoism so much more and I saw how fantastic the principles of it are.
This book gave Taoism a deeper meaning than just some old philosophy.
You may not be a Taoist but you still can enjoy this novel and the wisdom it proved me with such as: "Everything has its own place and function.
This one of the few inspirational books that I really enjoyed and I recommended it to everyone whether you are 10 or 110.
The more I can let little nuisances pass over me and through me like waves breaking against a rock, the better I’m able to save my time, energy, and emotions for things that really matter.Hoff makes some very interesting observations, too, about the way Western thought privileges jargon over plain-spoken language:The Confusionist, Dessicated Scholar is one who studies Knowledge for the sake of Knowledge, and who keeps what he learns to himself or his own small group, writing pompous and pretentious papers that no one else can understand, rather than working for the enlightenment of others.And a few pages later, Hoff questions the value of received or academic knowledge compared to experiential knowledge:… and one sometimes gets the impression that those intimidating words are there to keep us from understanding.
That was accomplishing a lot because sometimes my borderline ADD brain can't focus on religion and philosophy books.
It's not like I don't want to know.
I do want to know.
But it can't be helped what my brain does and does not respond to.
Winnie the Pooh and funniness are two things my brain inevitably responds to.
So intertwining those things with philosophy is pretty much nearly perfect to me.Thanks, Anthony, for passing it along.
I'd like to continue the tradition and pass this book along to someone else who would appreciate its wisdom.
I don't know what to say about this book that won't offend someone. It's like those Simpsons philosphy books, of something some modern professor tries to write to appear both profound and eccentric, living up to that professor image. Oh god books like this make me want to kill myself out of the shame I feel at being from the same planet as these people.
This is my first time to read a book about Taoism and I thought that teachings in Buddhism have similarities with Taoism.
I don't know if it's because of how the author writes or it is just that Buddhism and Taoism are different after all.The author attempts to interpret Taoism teachings by using fable but I think it's not that effective because it just made some confusion in some parts.
Hoff tried to explain Taoism in what he thought is the most coherent way he knows but it just complicates his way of describing something that we are not familiar with.
What a briljant little book full of life lessons and a course to a happy way of viewing life. Lovely in it's simplicity about such a complex subject as overal happiness. In my top 3 of all-time favorite books!
This is the second listen in about as many months. This may be my new go-to in stressful situations.In fact I think every employee should be issued a copy asapI'm also going to listen to this more often to remind myself to stop looking for happiness in new clothes, and hand cream, and lip gloss, and scarves, oh, and shoes 👠. Because I obviously find waayyyy too much happiness in those things.
What should be a charming and thoughtful analysis of Pooh Bear through a Taoist lens ends up being a rambling polemic by a bitter man who obviously has a ways to go before he achieves inner peace.
While he does use Pooh and company as a jumping off point, Hoff ends up spending much of the book railing against business people, lawyers, academics, and everyone else he deems a "Busy Backson".
I probably have more inner peace than this guy.Hoff is an unsuccessful artist who uses Eastern mysticism to rationalize his own failed ambitions and condemn people he doesn't like.
'You'd be surprised how many people violate this simple principle every day of their lives and try to fit square pegs into round holes, ignoring the clear reality that Things Are As They Are.'The Tao of Pooh discusses many Taoist principals by relating them to the characters from Winnie the Pooh.
At heart 'The Tao of Pooh' manages to be a simplified and practical introduction into the ideals of Taoism and how to go about incorporating them into your daily lives in order to change things for the better.'You can't save time.
The Zen, the Tao, the beautifully simplicity of a quiet, accepting mind.
Wonderful book! Must read for anyone interested in Taoism or even in plain simple living.
That would be a shame, for this charming book portrays the principles of Taoism through the story of Winnie the Pooh - and the other characters - in such a way that it makes the reader stop… and think about life.
Pooh lives in the ‘now’ without concern for things past or future; life just ‘Is’.
Benjamin Hoff shows, through the adventures of Pooh and his companions, that a happier, more contented life is not such a distant or unachievable concept; it is just a question of changing the way we look at things."While Eeyore frets...
From the forward: "What's this you're writing?" asked Pooh, climbing onto the writing table."The Tao of Pooh" I replied."The how of Pooh?
asked Pooh, smudging one of the words I had just written."The TAO of Pooh," I replied, poking his paw away with my pencil."It seems more like the OW!
"Well, it's not", I replied huffily."What's it about?" asked Pooh leaning forward and smearing another word."It's about how to stay happy and calm under all circumstances!" I yelled."Have you read it?" asked Pooh.It is a book I can pick up no matter what my mood and find a passage in it to smile about.
He says for instance that Science is "Looking for answers it will never find." and regulates scientific discoveries such as the complicated and intricate systems of magnetic internal navigation used by mirgratory birds to simple, patronizing terms like "Instinct." Pooh is praised for his forget-fullness and lack of self interest, two things that can, at most times, be more useful than an existence motivated by irrelevent factors like the acquisition of knowledge for the sake of knowledge of knowledge, or strength to defeat your opponents.
In the first 21 pages, Hoff successfully illustrates his idea that A.A. Milne's character, Winnie the Pooh, is a great literary embodiment of the teachings of Lao-tse.
Fritjof Capra accomplishes the very same thing with greater skill, detail and poetry in his book, The Tao of Physics.
Hoff's arguments are simple-minded which, in itself, is fitting for a book on Taoism.
Hoff is particularly offensive in his analysis of the wise "Owl" who he uses as a stereotype for scholars.
In my opinion he has broken the allegory when he begins using A.A. Milne's quotations out of context as facts to support his argument.
They're supposed to sit still.""Yes, I know.""But whenever I reached for it, this jar of honey would sort of go someplace else.""A nightmare," I said."Lots of people have dreams like that," I added reassuringly."Oh," said Pooh.
A way of life that keeps saying, "Around the next corner, above the nest step," works against the natural order of things and makes it so difficult to be happy and good...[end quote]Having just come out of the holiday season, here is a relevant section from pages 111-112: The honey doesn't taste so good once it is being eaten; the goal doesn't mean so much once it is reached; the reward is not so rewarding once it has been given.
Hoff does an amazing job of bringing his readers Eastern philosophy from the point of view of endearing characters that we've all grown up with.
Its message of simplicity and peace was like a vacation for the soul.
My only grief was the watered down version of the Eastern Religions.
Hoff did an excellent job of bringing Buddha to the masses but I wanted more.
Still, he presented the religions in an interesting and enlightening way.
Never a Bisy Backson myself I loved reading the smooth dialogue with its enlightening messages.
Read, revel and enjoy.
Tao dou,tou noun(in Chinese philosophy) The absolute principle underlying the universe, combining within itself the principles of yin and yang and signifying the way, or code of behavior, that is in harmony with the natural order. PoohAlso called Winnie the Pooh or Pooh Bear, was a fictional anthropomorphicteddy bear created by English author A. A. Milne.The Tao of PoohHarmony comes from happiness. Vinegar and honey don't mix. Simplicity begets wisdom. Learning is derived from books. Be sure to listen to your inner voice. *And don't be afraid to admit when you are confused because I am.*
Sweet
I love this book.
Taoism is a diffacult concept to wrap your mind around and it couldn't have been made any simpler than it has been in this book.
It's got some great stories in it by itself and all of the characters make great examples of the classic personality types you bump in to in everday life.
I can't count how many times i've bumped in to an Eore driving home from work or walking down the street.
A must read for anyone struggling with the concept of toaism.
I'd also recommend The Te Of Piglet as a continuation of the ideas represented in The Tao Of Pooh.
A very enlightening BR with Mishy.This is a great little book. I don't know if I'd go so far as to call it a great introduction to Taoism, there are surely a lot of scholarly books that would be better suited to that purpose, but this book does do a good job at pointing out some of Taoism's goals in a very sweet, Pooish sort of way.
This was too cute, but well....so is Winnie the Pooh. I liked the message of this. It was simple and had a peaceful tone, as anyone would expect from both Pooh and Taoism. I liked the voices of the Milne's characters, but this felt a little too .... I want to say forced, but that isn't really the right word. However, the parallel was appreciated and creative.
"Just how do you do it, Pooh?""Do what?" asked Pooh."Become so Effortless.""I don't do much of anything," he said."But all those things of yours get done.""But they just sort of happen," he said.And this is the Tao, the way, in a nutshell.
I think the best chapter is "That Sort of Bear," which re-tells the story of a stonecutter who is always dissatisfied with "himself and his position in life." Like Pooh, who criticizes himself for being without a brain, we should remember that we all have value.
In questo libro ne troverete un assaggio e vi accompagnerà alla scoperta del Tao perché essenzialmente (questo l'autore vuol dire) Pooh è l'incarnazione del Taoismo fatta e finita :DIl libro poi è utile perché prende alcuni precetti taoisti e li spiega in modo semplice e chiaro, aiutandosi spesso con scene prese dai libri di Milne; Pooh è presente in tutto il libro perché oltre alle suddette scene, compare a fianco dell'autore con cui intrattiene dialoghi tenerissimi :3Ok, basta, devo andare a distribuire un po' di amore random e abbracciare le piante del balcone, cià cià!
This is one amazing little book!
It's so calm, simple and inspiring I wanted to start reading it again as soon as I finished it!
This book can definitely change your life: it's so uplifting!
What I found really interesting when reading reviews here and there is how everyone identifies with a different chapter from the book, a different character.
The book really has something to offer to each and everyone of us, it echoes our own personal experiences.
My favourite chapters must be "Cottleston Pie" and "Nowhere and nothing", even though making a choice is really hard!
A wonderful book!
I love Pooh and the idea of explaining Taoism through the famous cute bear. However, the philosophy presented here doesn’t appeal to me.
