https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26192646-sweetbitter
What little plot exists centers around the narrator landing in New York with no drive or direction to anything except, like, I dunno, live or something?
The character is supposed to be from some Midwestern city, and though anyone who's ever even only been adjacent to a copy of Food and Wine knows, food outside of New York consists of more than toast and canned soup.
All of the "growth" she experiences boils down to her learning how to order wine like the kind of douchebag most of the people I know who have worked in the serving profession want to murder (describing a white she orders as "flabby but adequate"?
Tess's relationship with Jake the bartender is as tedious as you'd imagine.
The more interesting relationship is the one between Tess and Simone, the restaurant's doyenne and longest-serving server.
Simone in many ways is who Tess wants to be--well-traveled, at home in the world, mysterious, cultured.
The problem is neither Simone or Tess (or Jake, the troubled bartender) are fully developed characters.
I'd rather have real characters.Anyway, if you're twenty and living at home in the suburbs this summer, dreaming about how great life will be once you're shed of your parents and your job at the mall, you'll like this book more than I did.
It was ridiculous!Me: (surprised, as this had not been what I'd meant at all) Oh...Customer: A whole book about someone wanting to become a good waitress.
What does it matter?Me: (After a few beats of dead silence that stretch a little too long) Why don't you go ahead and pick out something else?What I wanted to say, but couldn't -- because like the main character in Sweetbitter (you know, the waitress) I am in a service position that requires me to hold my tongue even when someone insults me to my face -- is that I thought Danler's depiction of her protagonist's aspirations and growth were gracefully handled.
one of the most anticipated books of 2016 according to some (literary and press) sources.In their reviews and in the first GR-reviews it was said to be 'Anthony Bourdain meets Jay McInerney with a sprinkling of Siri Hustvedt.'So Anthony Bourdain?
Tough luck I just read his Kitchen Confidential.
Kitchen confidential had by then collected an entire Jamie Oliver Cookbook.
Maybe it's 'cuz I'm a European gastronaut (pun intended) but as Shania Twain exclaimed once: that don't impress me much.Siri Hustvedt?
Sometimes I wonder if some readers on Goodreads actually read the novel, or just the promo talk...But, I know, it's all about taste...
Sweetbitter follows Tess as she arrives in New York City to escape her empty life in Ohio and have all the experiences she can.
The nature of Simone and Jake's relationship isn't clear, but one thing's for sure—Tess is ready to get in the middle of it.Tess was proclaimed by various shout-lines and reviews to be "uniquely beguiling" and "unforgettable." I found her to be neither.
A lot of the dialogue is stilted like this, just doesn't ring true, isn't the way people converse.
The book never lives up to its promise and I was left thinking, what's the point?I can't say I liked Sweetbitter.
My original thought was, "what gifted author writes about a 22 year old female looking to reinvent herself in New York City?" I wanted to change the channel on this story before it even started.
Tess actually just wanted a job.....away from America's heartland.
I found myself intrigued during a job interview that Tess was having.
Given that Tess was applying for a waiter job at the most popular New York restaurant....
The interviewer asked her to tell him about a problem situation she faced with her last job and how did she solve it.
It's weird - I couldn't put this one down and at the same time I was slightly annoyed the whole time I was reading. The descriptions of working in a restaurant are good, as are the food and wine discussions/descriptions, and they kept me going thru all the bar scenes and bumps of cocaine and thoughts that seemed too mature for a 22-year-old who was the opposite of mature.Enjoyable but just not my favorite.
I have a new appreciation for this book, reading it the second time. One of my favorites. I adore Stephanie's writing, sis needs to come out with another one 🙏🏼
When he kissed me I said, Oh my god into his mouth but that, like everything else, was swallowed up."!
*This is all one scene, mind you.*""Fuck you," I said to a man I didn't recognize.
Being pretty...well..." "I wanna fuckin' record this shit right now.""It sucks.""Baby Monster, how 'bout you shut your face 'fore I break your face." "I hate you," I said to Will, but he was asleep on coats."OK, after typing these quotes, I'd like to amend my review to state that 100% of the book is unbearable, UNLESS, that is, you're drinking and reading it aloud to friends (or by yourself #summertimesadness).
I couldn't finish this book. I checked it out because the novel had been hyped, and generally I like foodie stories, but the writing in this was too on-the-nose and I was groaning by page 5. For example, in the beginning she writes about driving to New York to "escape" from her hometown and its "twin pillars of football and church." ARGH.I skimmed ahead and didn't see much to improve my opinion. Maybe you will like it more.
She somehow manages to find a job as a "backwaiter" at a famous New York restaurant, and it changes her life in ways she cannot even imagine.
Simone becomes a sort of sensei for Tess, teaching her about wine, taste, the beauty of using all of your senses, and, of course, about life in the process."You're only beginning to learn what you don't know.
Your senses are never inaccurate—it's your ideas that can be false."Tess also becomes infatuated with Jake, one of the restaurant's bartenders.
This book is completely full of itself and full of shit.
Twenty-two-year-old Tess arrives in New York City by car in June 2006.
Two days later she interviews at a restaurant in Union Square and gets a job as a backwaiter and barista.
Try as she might, Tess can’t work out the dynamic between them.To mirror her one-year taste apprenticeship, the book is broken into four seasonal parts, headed by short sections in the second person or first-person plural.
It’s hard to believe that Danler is a debut author rather than a seasoned professional.
by Kristopher Jansma (about friends who pull together to survive in recession-era New York City)
I can't waste any more of my time reading this book. Ugh! Seriously, do people really talk like this?
I really liked this coming-of-age story set in the milieu of a high-end New York City restaurant.
It does get off to a slow start and the writing style takes some getting used to but if you like complex and often unlikeable characters, this may be for you.Tess comes to New York City as a young adult with no plans and no resources.
I loved all the details of restaurant life and the almost claustrophobic relationships between the various employees - owners, managers, servers, bartenders, cooks, dishwashers, hostesses, etc.
I kept wanting to get to the part where I cared. The book started out promising, but then just dissolved. Much like the restaurant being condemned for its "architecture", this book falls apart because it becomes a drunken drug-filled morass.
It leaves a lot of things unexplained, so you just have to keep going and learn on the fly, exactly like Tess.I could say I never wanted the book to end, but that wouldn't quite be true.
It's self-consciously finite – four seasons counting down to the one-year anniversary of Tess's arrival in New York – and that's part of its beauty.
First jobs don't last, obsessive love burns out, but everything leaves its mark.Coming-of-age stories either work for you or they don't, and I suppose that's a lot to do with personal experience, whether they awaken particular feelings or dig up particular memories or push none of your buttons at all.
Sweetbitter is a coming-of-age novel centred around our fresh faced and wide eyed protagonist Tess and her journey to New York and inevitably the ins and outs of her job working at a fine dining restaurant.
Tess is pulled into the industry more based on her charm and appearance then actual skills and starts off this novel as a bumbling, idiotic and completely out of her depth back waiter.
The dude is a 30 year old temperamental loser who has no direction in life, is disrespectful to Tess, and is in weird co-dependent relationship with Sloane.
Some reviewers considered it their best book of the year, others found it just ho-hum, some hated it, and more than a few abandoned it after a few pages.
From a rube who has to turn around because she doesn't have money for the toll to get into the city on her first day, she turns into a person who loves the city, loves her job, and loves her co-workers, in particular the bartender, Jake, who has some pretty heavy baggage to deal with.
"A year in the life", so to speak.I think this book appealed to me so much because I saw a lot in it that I could relate to.
From there on, the reader is informed about the goings on of all the folks who work and eat in the restaurant along with Tess's perceptions of them and her surroundings.Tess is infatuated with Simone, the wine expert, and Jake, a bartender.
While Ms. Danler has a wonderful gift for writing, I wanted her to tell more of a story, one that was more interesting than the comings and goings of a restaurant crowd.
Anthony Boudain, in non-fiction, can keep the writer interested but Ms. Danler had me hanging on to her words while I begged for a story.It is my guess that this novel is semi-autographic.
I'm not imagining it?) When I picture this toy it's usually bad news for the book, because the pegs are never all pounded in the way they're supposed to be.
It's unwieldy and unsatisfying.On the other hand, when I'm reading a novel where everything seems to work together perfectly, I tend to picture it as some kind of weaving, a tapestry maybe.
What's the point of creating a large work, like a novel, with a lot of different elements, and then not taking the time to make it all fit?Stephanie Danler took the time.
Through her, you gain insight into the secret life of a restaurant, how it becomes all-encompassing, lending itself to late nights with drugs and alcohol, to relationships that lack depth, and self harm.I felt transported to the time after college where there is so much to learn, to experience, where anything can happen, where so many relationships are fleeting.
However, I also felt the energy and excitement of this time in life, the possibilities, the opportunities, the relationships.I loved the book for the most part.
You know how sometimes you can't stop hearing about some fabulous restaurant in town, that one you have to try and have to get reservations really far in advance if you don't want to go at 9:30 on a Wednesday night, that one with the famous chef who's really a white girl but makes amazing Spanish tapas and has changed the food scene forever?
This is like that with books.To be clear: that famous tapas restaurant really is amazing and you should stop hating on that famous chef.
That other food really does taste like it's from a gas station (a clean gas station, but a gas station nonetheless).
I finally read this novel.
It was everything I thought it was going to be.Tess is 22 and finds herself in New York City wanting to make a start somewhere exciting.
A tough place to be without a plan, but she finds a job in an upscale restaurant despite not having experience.
Following her ups and downs is a pleasure to read.
The people, management, food, wine, and let's not forget about the drugs is what makes Tess's experiences authentic.I enjoyed Stephanie Danler's writing.
She can write about food and wine and have me running to the store!
Mostly my tasks involved answering the phone and moving papers around, but one day our office was hosting a big meeting and I was “voluntold” to ready the refreshments.
(Did I mention I worked in administrative offices for a church, and the people I was serving were pastors?
(Having visited NYC exactly once and been distinctly underwhelmed by it, I don’t relate to the whole “escape your small hometown and move to the Big City where the lights are bright” thing either.
I get a little cranky with books that seem to assume things about the world that I disagree with, namely that life outside the city isn’t worth living.
4.5 This was great, I loved it! I could not put it down. Great characters, great writing! I can't wait to watch the mini series. I also look forward to more from this writer.
Stephanie Danler shows promise as a writer (this is her debut novel), but she's not a natural storyteller.
"Sweetbitter" has zero plot, and the characters were as thin as paper.
The protagonist, Tess, lands a job in an upscale restaurant in New York City, and that's pretty much the whole plot.
Ugh. Tess basically speaks in a bunch of random, confusing thoughts about herself, her job, and her bland co-workers.
The only thing I took away from Tess is she's a people pleaser, gullible, and spineless.
Danler is a whiz at metaphors, but as an author, she lacks intensity.
I was invested in the beginning of this book, but quickly lost interest. The characters didn't do anything for me. I couldn't find any character growth, and the writing style was quite choppy (fitting perhaps since the book is focused around food, I don't know). I kept waiting for the moment that I would care about the characters, but I mostly felt like I spending time with people I didn't want to be around. I was so disappointed in this novel.
The narrator of Sweetbitter is female, and super young, fresh to New York, and cares SO MUCH about what everyone thinks that she gets really drunk on a regular basis (plus she does a lot of coke) and has to be taken care of by her co-workers.
I like to think the author knows that a lot about Tess is cliche.
(I love Felicity but it isn't real.)Also I did like the self-contained partial-restaurant culture of old New York, where servers and sommeliers stay forever, with roles like backwaiters are still a thing, and some of the customers have been coming for decades.
Sweetbitter has bite. Our heroine, Tess, moves from nowhere to New York, where her life is going to officially begin. Yes, she's had a childhood and been to college, but none of that counts. Nothing starts counting until she crosses the river and starts working at a restaurant downtown. While she's there, she falls in love and obsession, she finds a life, and starts to find herself. The writing is sharp, and the story is fierce and electric, like you have to read carefully or you might hurt yourself. Even still, I could not stop.
