https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/958276.Junie_B_Jones_and_Her_Big_Fat_Mouth
This was fun to read aloud to my 5-year-old, because Junie B. does a lot of yelling and has bad grammar (significantly worse than my own kid).But that's also why I probably won't read any more of them to her for a while. I don't need to give her any additional help learning how to act like a brat. And I read books to her partially to teach her good grammar.**winner of the 2017 Fun Dad Award
These are horrible books for kids. I started reading them to my kindergartner. She loves them, but she has also started acting just like Junie-horrible, bratty and mouthy. All these books do is give kids ideas of how to misbehave. And her grammar is horrible. I would not let your kids read these, nor would I read any to them.
Title: Junie B. Jones and Her Big Fat MouthAuthor: Barbara ParkSeries: Junie B. Jones #3Rating: ★★★Summary: Sometimes life is P.U. Junie B.’s having a rough week. First she got punishment for shooting her mouth off in kindergarten. And now she’s in big trouble again! ’Cause Monday is Job Day, and Junie B. told her class that she’s got the bestest job of all. Only, what the heck is it?Review: Like any Junie B. Jones book: it's hard to even say.Things I Loved: N/AThings I Hated: Grammar. Every time.
The story is basically about a kindergarten girl whose teacher her she can dress up like her favorite career.
Monday morning she returns to school and Junie dressed up as a janitor, because they were the superheros of the school.Junie is the main character and she is in kindergarten.
Gus is the janitor and he is important to show that janitors have important jobs just like other careers.The story takes place at the school in room nine, a bus, and Junie’s house.
The story takes place from Friday through Tuesday in modern times.The main message is not to judge others by a career they want to have when they grow up.
No, I'm not crazy. My girls and I have started the series. We just finished #3 last night. I may have a broken nose because of it. LITERALLY. No joking. We LOVE Junie B. My girls act just like her at home.
Jones is in kindergarten and her teacher announces that her class is going to do job day in a couple days.
Junie gets very impatient with her mom.
The next day when she got to school she started copying other kids' ideas on what to be for job day.
Junie got very embarrassed and said she would make up her own job with all of her favorite things.
My first reaction was that I was kind of like Junie B.
If you really like a certain thing, you shouldn't care what people think of it.
Plot: Junie B. Jones and her Big Fat Mouth is a picture book about a kindergarten girl. In this book, Junie is trying to decide on what she wants to be when she grows up for Career Day. At the beginning of the book she wants to be someone who carries keys, saves people from danger, and paints. Junie goes home and tries to ask her mom for help with her job. Her mom is too busy though because she cannot find Ollie’s pacifier. Junie decides to ask her dad for help when he comes home from work. Her
Junie goes home and tries to ask her mom for help with her job.
Junie decides to ask her dad for help when he comes home from work.
I think that boys and girls will like this book because it talks about superheroes, and princesses.
I think that both girls and boys can relate to this book because, they were in kindergarten once, and they most likely had a Career Day when they were little.Personal Response:	I give this book a 3 out of 5 star rating because I enjoyed it, but it was not one of my favorite books.
Barbara Park has written a series of books that are about Junie B.
Jones speaking her mind on everything.
Hailey tends to speak her mind as well.
Jones goes to elementary school and gets picked on.
Finally towards the end of the book, she understands that she needs to watch what she says.The setting of this book is at the school, in Room Nine, and at the Jones’s home.
Jones books teach children that they need to watch what they say and learn from it.I personally enjoyed this book, because I find these books entertaining and easy to read.
When the school has job day Junie picks to be a janitor.
Once Junie explains that janitors are like superheroes for the school, Junie gets applauded for her idea.Junie Jones is the main character.
The setting has no real factor in the story.The theme of this book is to think before you speak, and then learn from your mistakes.
Junie gets herself in trouble throughout the book by saying things that aren't true.
Junie then realizes she needs to think before she speaks and tell the truth, so she doesn't look silly in front of everyone.I thought this was a decent book.
This short chapter book describes Junie B.
settles on copying one of her school heroes, the janitor, and declares to her class that she will also be janitor one day.This very humorous book explores deeper issues of self-discovery and growing up, therefore I would classify it as contemporary realistic fiction.
The reading level may be appropriate for 2nd-4th grade, however I would personally be extremely wary of incorporating it into my classroom in any formal way.
I would potentially include the Junie B.
Jones books in my classroom library for independent reading, but would have no other structured coursework related to it.
She is in kindergarten and often times speaks out of turn and gets in trouble for her "loud mouth." In this specific book, Junie is consumed with Job Day and what she is going to dress up as for this special day.
One way I could use it is to read it with students prior to having our own career day!
This will help students begin to think about different jobs, what people do everyday, and what they too want to do one day!
I could read with students the book and stop when Junie uses incorrect grammar, write the sentence on the board and have students correct it with me.
Jones and her Big Fat MouthBy Barbara ParkThe book starts out with Junie B.
Their teacher, Mrs, just told them they are going to have a job day.
For Job Day, the students have to dress up like the person they want to be when they grow up.
All of the kids know what they want to be when they grow up except Junie B.
She goes to school on Job Day dressed as a janitor.
The janitor visits the class later that day.
I am giving this book the rating of 3 stars because it wasn't how i thought it was going to be.
If it's Junie B it has got to B good! All of the books in this series are hysterical!
This girl is just too much! (And I'm so glad she's not a student in my class!)
My 6yr old niece reviews all children's books read :)"It was funny and I liked it super much." - Destiny
This was really cute too! And has a great lesson for elementary school kids! Highly recommend this well!
So short, and I loved this storyline and wish it was longer! Also, Junie B. is the kind of student I don't enjoy teaching.
Reading these as an adult, I definitely see why my mom disliked these so much. Still, I can't help but be amused by Junie's constant grammatical errors and the way that the perplexed grown-ups react to her. In this book, her affection for the school janitor is kind of sweet.
She's showing herself not to be as bright or well spoken as some of the other kids in her class and it's starting to become a challenge for her.While the grammar is horrible and Junie B.'s attitude is really bad, this book is yet another that deals with issues kids her age have to go through.
Many parents say they edit the grammar as they're reading it, or they don't want to read the books because they're afraid their children will start to act like Junie B.
A child might try out Junie B.'s attitude to see if it's a good fit, but part of being a parent is discouraging bad behavior.
The teacher told the students she had a surprise for them.
Jones likes surprises.
The teacher asked what do the students want to be when they grow up.
The next students needed to dress up like what they wanted to be when they grow up.
Junie first liked the baby, but now the baby gets all of her mom's attention.
When he got home, Junie told him about Job Day. Junie's dad listened but couldn't help Junie because he was busy helping Junie's mom.
When Junie shared that she wanted to be a hero, everyone was excited.
Jones and Her Big Fat Mouth" by Barbara Park.
The book tells of how Junie B.
Jones keeps getting in trouble because she tells fibs.
She gets over it, but learns that she just needs to keep her mouth shut!Junie B.
Throughout the story she gets in trouble for opening her mouth, and she learns that sometimes she just needs to hold back.The book is set in Room Nine and Junie B's house.
Jones and Her Big Fat Mouth".
Jones and Her Big Fat Mouth" three out of five stars just because it did not appeal to my reading interests.
Junie gets herself in trouble because she talks when the teacher talks.
She has a pretty rough day and gets in a lot trouble.Junie is the main character and she is starting first grade.
There is also a teacher Junie calls “Mrs.” Her classmates don’t like her at first because she is rude.The story takes place in September on the first day of school and lasts for a few weeks.The main theme is to be respectful of others and not talk while they are.
Junie discovers her “big mouth” is getting her in trouble when the teacher tells her.
Book summary, in your own words: junie b jones is just a girl that doesn't know when not to blurt out.
She gets t=so s=excited about things that she just has to say it right then and there and sometime she gets in trouble for saying things when she shouldn't.
Just a fun book to read4) Individual students who might benefit from reading: All students5) Small group use (literaturecircles): Each student have a different junie b jones book and compare.6) Whole class use (read aloud): would be cute if this book was read aloud7) Related books in genre/subject or content area: all junie b jones books.8) Multimedia connections (audio book, movie) available: N/A
Notes:Hilarious! If it were written for older kids, it would be great, but it's not; it's directed at influencing my sweet little 5-6 year old. I know kids who read these books and they are little unoriginal affected brats just like Junie B. I will choose what influences and leads my children and these books will not be included. Pippi Longstocking is a much better alternative -- she is funny without being disrespectful and she never calls anyone stupid.
i really liked this book i thought it was so funny and cute. i really think the series of junie b jones is genious and hilarious they are good books and i am going to keep reading them. you should read this because it is so funny and makes you want to laugh out loud.
I forgot how entertaining these are. My son asked me to get him some since they're reading them in class and Junie's shenanigans make him giggle.
She really has a big Fat Mouth.
A beautiful and funny story.
sits alone in the grass during recess and thinks about Job Day that Mrs. was telling the class about.
She has a breakthrough and finally decides what she wants to dress up as for Job Day. The janitor comes in to talk about his job and lets the children use some of his equipment & him and Junie B.
become friends.Response-This was my absolute favorite book as a child because I felt like I related to Junie B.
I find it interesting that children’s book authors can slip in these messages that children could comprehend and abide by if they are talked about in the classroom and at home.
After reading multiple books of the Junie B Jone series by Barbara Park for the first time I was in the 4th grade, I discovered that many people have tried to ban/challenge the book Junie B Jones.
Another thing is that in the book it states “ The stupid girl said I was sassy and jokes on her because I didn’t in her because I didn’t know what that means.” This shows us that Junie doesn’t start everything other students pick on Junie which makes her upset and becomes rude/sassy.
