https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/129524.Midnight_in_Death
Just love these two.
Picking up where #7 left off this was a perfect extension of that book.
LOVED RoarkeLOVED Eve I'm still enjoying all the side characters too.
Feeney and his bags of nuts.
Got to love the guy.Peabody and her dry humor.
She is the perfect partner for Eve. McNabb is new and I like him.
I'm figuring he will get tangled up with Peabody.
But I could be wrong.Dr. Mira is wonderful.
I love their relationship.Mavis wasn't in this one but is her BFF and these two couldn't be any more different which is perfect.Summerset still drives Eve crazy.
5 Well Deserved StarsI've said it before and I'll say it again, there are very few authors whose novellas I enjoy. Most of the time they seem incomplete or uninteresting. I'm happy to say that JD Robb didn't disappoint on that aspect of her writing.This novella was just as good as her full novels. The story was cohesive, the mystery interesting and the killer worthy of attention. This author can really do no wrong.
Short but sweet novella which picks up immediately from where the last book finished. Poor Eve and Roarke seem to have every holiday disrupted by yet another murder! Not that they let it get them down. They still manage to enjoy some very close moments in between the police work. I really enjoyed this little taste of In Death land and it left me keen to get on with the next book:)
This one was a novella, but read like a longer book. Enjoyed it. Took up straight after the previous book finished. Eve and Roarke ... what's not to love? For a moment that was all there was. The taste of him, the feel of him pressed against her, the need they created in each other time after time erupting inside her.  "We don't have a thing for New Year's, do we? No party or anything?" LOL. Love how Eve is not the party animal ... my kind of girl. "You're what I want, Eve, the woman who leaves
This one was a novella, but read like a longer book.
Enjoyed it.
Took up straight after the previous book finished.
Eve and Roarke ...
what's not to love?
For a moment that was all there was.
The taste of him, the feel of him pressed against her, the need they created in each other time after time erupting inside her.
"We don't have a thing for New Year's, do we?
No party or anything?"
Love how Eve is not the party animal ...
"You're what I want, Eve, the woman who leaves her home to stand over the dead.
4.5 stars.🎄🎄🎄🎄Festive fun and joy at Christmas with Roarke and Eve. 🎉
This is a novella taking place between Christmas and New Year.Eve chases a serial killer who has escaped prison and is after the one's who put him away in the first place, including Eve and Dr. Mira. It is intense but nothing like her full length novels.
Very good for a rather short story!Obviously all the characters are present and excellent as Always!
Suspense 4.5 stars / Romance 4 starsShort, but intense story.Bloody merry Christmas...
Read this with the J.
D. Robb group.
Love this story!!!
Making a short story this entertaining is a gift.
And, Nora/J.
She manages to intro characters and still put an exciting story in it.
Putting one of my fav characters in jeopardy was terrifying!Reread June 2018 — This book dives into the middle of the action just days after the Christmas attack on Peabody.
Eve is facing a serial killer who escaped from prison.
This time he plans to torture the people who put him in prison, including Eve and Dr. Meara.
Midnight in Death4 StarsThe first novella of the series, Midnight in Death begins in the aftermath of the events of Holiday in Death when a killer from Eve's past escapes and begins taking revenge on those he holds responsible for his conviction.
A solid and comprehensive read, but it fails to answer some of the questions left unanswered after last book; especially the aftermath of the attack on Peabody, which is glossed over very quickly.
The case is well developed despite the shorter length and the information revealed about Eve prior to the beginning of the series demonstrate her growth both as an investigator and as a woman.
One of the few novellas I like to reread. Three serial killers in a row but this book is different than the others. Eve knows how Daved Palmer operates so she goes into this murder(s) better prepared. I kind of like Palmer for his evil creative mind. What is really impressive is how much crime solving and action occurs in only 10 chapters. Above all, we see the mother/daughter relationship developing between Eve and Dr. Mira. Good stuff!
Posted on  Under the CoversEve is on someone’s Christmas list....Didn’t matter that book was shorter than all the rest.
The fact is that Robb has written a damn good story with just a quarter of the word count.
Not many authors can pull off novellas, but J.D. Robb can.This story takes place right after the previous one where the Christmas holidays are in full spring.
But Eve and Roarke can’t enjoy it because a man who Eve had the pleasure to catch before has escaped and is killing once again.
Roarke is still too good to be true.
Another old adversary of Eve is back. A mentally defective killer who has his own private chamber of horrors. Okay, so this one is a novella but it still packed a punch. Love everything about this series. :)
Loved this novella in the "In Death" series!
** 2.5/3 stars **Probably this is not the first time I'm going to say that I don't really enjoy novellas.
In my opinion, what happens is that the plot has to be worked out very fast and the overall deliverance is compromised.
That being said, I still enjoyed  Midnight in Death, it was a fairly good plot with enough angst.
But it was just one more crime story that Eve had to solve with the help of her team.
As often is the case in the  In Death series, the crimes were very close to Eve and she had, as expected, Roarke working right along with her.
Midnight in Death happens hot on the heels of the previous book, Holiday in Death with a case that interrupts Eve and Roarke's Christmas and threatens to end her before the New Year's.Midnight in Death is a novella and the story moves along swiftly, but the author didn't neglect background or development as it went.
She wants to get him badly since she put him away the first time and now he's threatening people she holds dear.There is a ruthlessness to Eve's work because she delves deep and feels each case.
I enjoy the balance of Roarke in her life to grab hold of her at times before she slips under and drowns.
In typical novella fashion this enfolded at a lightning pace, with a too quick wrap up. I enjoyed the mystery, and I believe it was full book worthy.
Kısa bir romandı ama yine de gayet iyiydi. Eve ve Roarke ikilisine her kitapla daha da bağlanıyorum. Burada biraz Jane-Hoyt ilişkisi sezdim. Eve'in üç yıl önce hapse tıktığı psikopat bir bilim adamı hapisten kaçıyor ve davasındaki tüm görevlileri tek tek aynı şekilde öldürmeye başlıyor ama amacı Eve'e ulaşıp onda deneyler yapmak. Takıntılı yani. Ayrıca Dr. Mira da onun davasında doktor olduğu için onu da kaçırıyor. Kurgu ilginizi çektiyse hemen okuyun derim.
I like that this novella was a full story complete with character development and a good plot.
David Palmer has escaped! The worst serial killer that Eve ever brought down is back and looking to avenge himself. This is a short story but it would have been difficult reading a full length novel about a young man this twisted.
Midnight in Death by J.D.Robb is a short novella in the In Death series set after Holiday in Death. A serial killer whom Eve had captured 3 years earlier has escaped and is targeting those responsible for his conviction. Another terrific addition to the series with all the usual characters and plenty of sizzling romance.
Eve is not going to let one madman ruin her Christmas so she and Roarke pool their resources in this short to put him back into the loony bin. Fast pace with a punch.
1st Read December 20122nd Read November 2014
I read it as part of the bind up but I'm going to review both stories separately as I'm not far enough along in the series to read the second novella yet.Midnight in Death is a novella set almost immediately after the end of Holiday in Death.
Not when she's still recovering from her last case.This may be shorter than most of the stories in this series but J.D. Robb doesn't skimp on the amount of danger that Eve faces as she tries to bring a murderer to justice, in fact this case is even more personal than most when one of her very few friends, Mira, becomes a target.
Very short novella. It was good, enjoyable. I liked it.
Short-story que serviu essencialmente para matar saudades dos personagens.
Knap hoe zo'n korte novelle je toch volledig in spanning houdt. Ik vond alleen de uiteindelijke ontknoping te gehaast
I am glad I went back and purchased this, I finally got to see how Roarke reacted to his Christmas present and what Eve got Peabody.
I always felt a bit disappointed that I didn’t get to see Eve and Roarke’s first Christmas together.
Now I get to see it, along with the normal death that follows Eve.
Midnight in Death has Eve pursuing an escaped serial killer who is on a personal mission to punish and kill all those who put him away, including Eve.
The story has all the characters we have grown to love and it was just the right amount of perfect.
I loved it.
RATING: 4.5 STARS!
