https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/119502.The_Iron_Man
You know what it's like. You've left your wife, she's killed herself, so you write a story to cheer up the kids. We've all been there.
When you write a review of a kid's book, there really should be a way to give it two different star ratings.
One for you, and one for the kids you've read it to.
I don't hate the book or anything, it's just doesn't do much for me.
But my boy loves it.
I think this might be slightly because my boy loves the movie The Iron Giant a lot.
But that can't be too much of the reason, as the book has only a glancing similarity to the movie.(The movie is A+ excellent, by the way.
One of my favorite movies ever.)
All the spirits inside all the stars are singing.
The music of the spheres is what makes space so peaceful.” I suppose the only way I could start this review would be by saying that approximately thirteen years ago a small, likely annoying girl of four's heart was torn apart by the ending scene of Brad Bird's The Iron Giant.
Seeing as though The Iron Giant is quite possibly one of my favourite films in the whole world, it was to be expected that I'd experience some powerful waves of nostalgia as I sifted through Hughes' work.
The book was as liquid as its animated movie. Kinda reminded me of Bridge to Terabithia. Though the two couldn't be more further apart.The book was a little different from the movie, by little I mean completely. But what a message at the end, wow. What a message. So amazing. Alas if only. Funny thing. It was corrupted by them and yet it ended up curing them all.Oh yeah, if Only. Sigh. But humanity. Sigh. I'd give this one ten stars rating.
It was more like the Iron Giant was King Kong, but like I said he isn't that big, and the space-bat-angel-dragon is huge compared to the Iron Giant.Pa: Umm, so did the Iron Giant beat the dragon?Miloš: Yeah, only the dragon's job was just to fly around the world all night, every night, singing, cause all it could do up there was fly and sing.
Pa: So the space-bat-angel-dragon is the bad guy rather than the US Army?Miloš: Yeah.
It is Hogarth that helps when the adults wants to trap it and when the Earth is in it’s hour of need; prey to an enormous bat-angel creature from space that threatens to devour every living thing on the planet, it is again Hogarth, the child, that sees the only one that can help is the Iron Man. Children love this book as it has adventure, mystery and explores different relationships.I think it is an excellent book to use as a stimulus in science or to create cross curricular links when reading it in literacy.You can look at the properties of different materials.
I shamefully admit that this was my first Ted Hughes book, and although I enjoyed it, it was close to nothing like the movie.
The Iron Man was more of a victim-turned-hero in this book than he was made to be in the movie, and the fighting scene at the end against the big black dragon from space was insanely brilliant.
I thoroughly enjoyed it and the cleverness behind it.I would recommend to all who decide to read this book and have watched the film adaptation beforehand to think of it as completely independent from the movie.
Let us deal first with the book, because I think it is necessary and pleasurable to return to the film.The charm of the book stems from the central idea of the impact caused by the arrival on Earth of a giant mechanical man.
Before too long the metal man resurfaces, and is befriended by a small boy called Hogarth, who comes up with the idea of accommodating the visitor’s special needs by putting him in a scrap metal yard.
I bought this book based purely on how much I loved Brad Bird's movie adaptation, The Iron Giant.
However, the story itself has no real depth of character, and prefers to stay detached in describing the realm of the fantastic.
And the appearance of the space dragon is an interesting trickster fairytale spin, but it doesn't fit organically with the previous episodes of the Iron Giant on Earth.
If I hadn't watched the movie I would probably be more forgiving, because the story has its charms.
But when compared to the animated classic, The Iron Giant seems smaller in comparison.
For a children's book (which isn't my favourite genre to read as an adult) this was pretty good. The prose is quite poetic and the story is engaging, both on the surface and at a deeper level. One to read with children, while still getting enjoyment yourself.
I need not have worried, Ted Hughes' writing is magical and this story was made to be read aloud.
On Tuesday we will be building character portraits, based upon the first chapter we will observe how our visualisations of the Iron Man progress as the story unfolds.
Next week we will be looking at character empathy and comparing characters from different stories as we are currently reading the BFG as our shared reading book.I would recommend this story as both a great book for reading for pleasure and also as a book to base a series of lessons on.
The Iron Man by Ted Hughes is a book that I came across due to the year four class I was placed in using the book for the basis of their Autumn terms literacy lessons. The Iron Man is a third person account of a metal eating iron giant who falls from space to impact on Hogarth's and the rest of the village's lives.  The book was used successfully as the basis for a combination of literacy lessons due to the authors use of many literary devices which the class were required to learn that term. It
The Iron Man by Ted Hughes is a book that I came across due to the year four class I was placed in using the book for the basis of their Autumn terms literacy lessons.
The book was used successfully as the basis for a combination of literacy lessons due to the authors use of many literary devices which the class were required to learn that term.
As the Iron Man is a short novel, the children were able to unpick the various themes within the book.
The chapters are relatively short and all end with a climax, making the reader want to read on and the children begging for more.
First let me say that I will not accept this as SF.
It's a great story, a parable, a fable, a fantasy...
And what about all that consumption; where is the matter going?Second, I coulda sworn that I read it before.
I know I enjoyed the movie.
And of course the movie is very different (though also quite good).
But I thought I read the story, and yet almost nothing rings a bell.
In any case, this oversized, artistically designed edition gives the story great metaphysical & poetic weight & import, as one would expect from the poet Hughes even in his prose.
4.5 Stars
But when danger approaches and the Earth is threatened, it is the Iron Man who comes to the humans aid.The Iron Man, from the beginning, intrigues the imagination of children with statements like "how far had he walked?" and "where did he come from?” It gets them to start thinking before an adult even asks them a question.
Η πρώτη ιστορία είναι και η πιο γνωστή, πάνω στην οποία βασίζεται η ταινία κινουμένων σχεδίων του 1999, με τον τίτλο "The Iron Giant", αν και με βάση την ιστορία που διάβασα και την περίληψη της ταινίας, υπάρχουν μεγάλες σεναριακές διαφορές.
Έχει κάποια μηνύματα να περάσει, ενώ και η ιστορία έχει όλα αυτά τα στοιχεία που μπορούν να κρατήσουν το ενδιαφέρον των πιτσιρικάδων αναγνωστών: Φαντασία, δράση, αγωνία και δυνατές εικόνες.
Κάποια στιγμή στο άμεσο μέλλον θα διαβάσω και την άλλη ιστορία που περιλαμβάνεται στον τόμο του Ψυχογιού, αν και απ’όσο βλέπω είναι σαφώς λιγότερο διαβασμένη και αγαπημένη από το αναγνωστικό κοινό.
Whilst The Iron Man is a wonderfully descriptive and poetic story (there is a real sense of rhythm to Hughes' words which is lovely) the story itself seems to be composed of two separate halves.
whilst the second half focuses on him during a test of strength with the space-bat-angel-dragon which has terrified residents and so the Iron Man seeks to make this dragon his slave if the creature loses the battle.
I didn't invest emotionally with the Iron Man but I think the main reason for this is the length of the story and left me feeling 'meh'.
i read this in class two years ago as a class and i loved don't forget to watch the movie after
I remember this book as being magic.
It doesn't take long to reread The Iron Man (or The Iron Giant, as my sister's copy insists).The back calls it a modern fairytale, which is true.
It's purely fantastical, with a big iron man and a bit space-dragon-bat-thing.
I liked the way it was told, but I think I also found it a little creepy when I was younger.
Also, as an adult, the two halves of the story fit a little oddly -- in the first half, the Iron Man is silent and a menace.
One day, an Iron Giant arrives on earth.
He eats barbed wire and tractors and plows, causing problems for the farmers.
Finally, the farmers devise a trap for the Iron Giant and they successfully capture him.
Then an even more terrible creature arrives from space and the Iron Giant must come to the rescue.“The peoples of the world got together.
It would never be full, and every new day it would be as hungry as ever.
How can you feed a beast the size of Australia?
The monster’s stomach alone must be the size of Germany.
No, they would not feed it.”
It took me the entire duration of the book to realise how much I loved it. I spent the first 3/4 trying to get my head around the slightly bizarre story, but as I read the last line, I decided this must indeed be one of the loveliest books I have read. Perfect for a lower ks2 class, Ted Hughes cleverly uses his beautiful poetic language to challenge our thoughts, and eventually, challenge our morals. Fantastic and bizarre.
Na začátku se všechno rozpadne. Kovové součástky rachotí a cinkají o kamení. Pak se železný muž, který přišel bůhvíodkud, dá zase sám dohromady. Ale tím to zdaleka nekončí. Příběh, ve kterém ohlušující plechové řinčení nakonec vystřídá samotná hudba sfér. Především však zvláštně skvělá moderní pohádka.
Těžko hodnotit dětskou knihu z pohledu dospěláka. Zvláště pak Železného muže, který se pyšní krásným knižním zpracováním a příběhem, jenž bezpochyby dokáže chytit za srdce. Možná jsem na tento typ příběhů už starší, ale na druhou stranu si mne kniha získala - ať už skrze ilustrace, nebo některé hezké momenty.
I found a version of this in a charity shop with fabulous illustrations. I had forgotten how wonderfully sublime some of the language is and, of course, the timely and pertinent message of hope and peace. A delightful revisit to an old, forgotten favourite.
Am citit cărți pentru copii mult mai bune, care mi-au transmis mult mai multe sentimente, au avut teme mult mai profunde și m-au făcut să mă gândesc la multe lucruri, dar cartea aceasta nu a fost rea per ansamblu.
Voi încheia spunând simplu că mi-a plăcut, nici mai mult, nici mai puțin, dacă o recomand, ei bine, eu am citit-o pe internet și după cum am spus mai sus este scurtă, deci nu ai nimic de pierdut dacă o citești, o ediție fizică ar fi probabil un cadou frumos pentru un copil de ziua lui sau de Crăciun, titulatura de ,,clasic al literaturii pentru copii" m-a făcut să o citesc și nu pot spune că am regretat.
In terms of ‘The Iron Man’ and its relevance to the classroom personally I believe that Ted Hughes novel is suitable for KS1 and KS2 children, ages ranging from 5 to 11.
Within lessons students could be asked to identify the different language techniques used within the novel:for example, ‘how many similes/metaphors can you identify?’ and to make the task even more advanced the students could be asked to write their own simile/metaphor describing the Iron Man. Also, there are many other literacy tasks that students can be asked to produce for instance, re writing the first chapter from the Iron man’s point of view, taking into consideration the Iron man’s thoughts and feelings.
Vuonna 1968 ilmestynyt Ted Hughesin "Rautamies" (Kustannus-Mäkelä, 1993) on klassikon aseman saavuttanut englantilainen lastenkirja, joka on tullut tutuksi myös The Whon  Pete Townshendin rock-oopperana ja Brad Birdin animaatioelokuvana.
Meillä se ei ole ehkä saavuttanut samanlaista mainetta ja kuuluisuutta, mistä kertonee sekin, että kirjan ensimmäinen ja ainoa painos otettiin vuonna 1993.Tarina käynnistyy väkevästi.
Harri-nimisen pojan avulla Rautajätti saadaan sitten aisoihin ja samalla sille keksitään mielekästä tekemistä.Mutta ei siinä vielä kaikki!
Maapallolle saapuu mantereen kokoinen Avaruuslepakko, joka liiskaa alleen Australian ja vaatii että ihmisten on tuotava hänelle mitä tahansa syötävää, kunhan se on vaan elollista.
Loppu onkin sitten sen verran kosminen että oksat pois ja jazztupakka palamaan.
The Iron Giant tells the story of a giant made of iron, who after making peace with local farmers, manages to save the world from a giant space dragon.
Then instead of the dragon being banished back into space and the Earth is saved, Hughes decides to make the dragon a "star spirit" and has him fly around the planet every night singing the song that makes space peaceful.
It eventually makes the Earth peaceful.
It seems to me that there was this wonderfully creative story and then we had to figure out some way to make the ending world peace.
It's as if he were a spare and understating poet who discovered prose and children's lit all at the same time.
Are we really ready to celebrate childish art and minimalist story telling with awards and acclaim?
What are we saying when we choose one style or story type or book over others?
Many things, I suppose.Another odd item: in the back where the publication information is I found these two lines:"Manufactured in China September 2011Random House Children's Books supports the First Amendment and celebrates the right to read."Okaaay...!I really have to dart over to Amazon and read some reviews of this book now.
Non so bene come parlare di questo libro.
Per questo libro non è stato così, troppo ripetitivo.
Per quanto invece riguarda la trama: non ha nulla a che fare con il film (per quanto ne ricordo io, perché nonostante lo amassi da piccola, ne sono comunque rimasta traumatizzata ed ho ancora adesso incubi ricorrenti a riguardo).
Nonostante ciò è piacevole, considerando quanto poco si impiega a leggerlo (nemmeno due ore?
in treno, tra mille e mille distrazioni).Non qualcosa che va assolutamente letto e consigliato, ma se capita tra le mani non si perde tempo!
