https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53958.Kavik_the_Wolf_Dog
I read this when I was like... 10. And I was super into horse and wolf books, so I definitely loved it. I recently recommended it to a friend for her daughter (she wanted something NOT about boys and crushes).
I read this aloud to one of my nieces about ten years ago. She loved it, so of course, I did, too. (Her very favorite book at the time was "Good Dog" by Avi.)
What a sweet book. I am a sucker for animal books and this one didn't disappoint. It is a quick read. Well worth an afternoon or two of yours.
(hide spoiler)]This is basically a variation of Lassie Come-Home, (view spoiler)[ a dog travels hundreds of miles in a struggle to return to a loved family (hide spoiler)] only set in Alaska, and is I think a stronger story.
I've only read Lassie once, and Kavik a number of times; both books are from the dog's POV.
Is this story stronger because Kavik deals with the wilderness in his travels, whereas Lassie encounters more problems dealing with human civilization?
In both, humans learn life-lessons from the dog's travails and grow as a character.
I made the right choice because it was awesome when Kavik fought the other Wolf to win over the love of another female wolf.
My second favorite part of the book was when he returned to the boy that saved his life.
If I could rewrite the book I would have more characters like a best friend for Andy the boy who saved the dog, maybe even give Andy some siblings that helped with the dog or somebody but I totally would add more characters.
I would recommend this book to anyone that likes a little bit of friendship but mostly action and survival in the outdoors.
This man, Charlie One-Eye, raises sled dogs, and one year he has a litter of wolf-dog puppies to raise.
He chooses the biggest and strongest out of them, which he then calls Kavik, which means wolverine, and tells him he has to be mean like the wolverine, not like the wolf.
A man sees him, and wants to buy him.
Kavik is sent to a plane, piloted by Smilie, or something of that sort.
C: Smilie crashes, and Kavik survives the crash.
on the brink of death, and Andy wanting to put the dog/wolf out of it's misery..
The illustrations by Parnall are serviceable, but not the kind of work for which I seek him out. I don't normally read animal adventure stories, have never even read Jim Kjelgaard (though I did love and reread The Incredible Journey). But I did decide to read this, and enjoyed it enough to consider reading Gentle Ben, at least. The only trouble is, I have no idea how true to animal nature all this is. It surely *seems* to be based on good science, but I dunno.
I had forgotten how much I liked this book.
Yes yes, this is another wolf, boy and his dog, story.
I guess I just liked the whole journey aspect.
I sort of wish there was more to Kavik's previous life as a sled dog though.
Also, how did Kavik know how to survive in the wild, other than the magical "he's part wolf, that's why" explanation we get for his exceptional behavior all the time?
There were other slight distracting plot holes like this, but the story was still good.
I liked the little moral they worked in at the end about getting courage and working hard towards something.
I read this book once when I was 10, and then did a book report on it every year until I graduated high school and even did a paper on it in college. Reading it again 25 years later, I'm even more impressed with myself... it's great for just okay in your 30's.
its so good i recomend it to anyone who likes animals
Because of all the dog stories I have been reading lately.
This one came up as a suggestion from Goodbook's as one I might enjoy.
So I check it out."When Andy Evans stumbles upon the snow-covered wreckage of a small plane, he's shocked to find a survivor.
Should he put the gravely injured dog out of his misery?
It turns out that Kavik's a champion sled dog, and soon he makes a full recovery.
When his rightful owner finds out Kavik is alive, he wants the dog back.
But Kavik has other ideas.""Swiftly paced from the first page .
For most of the dog's life, Kavik, the malamute, is faced with events which would have made any other living thing quit. However,the inherent nature of this wolf dog, is to survive against all odds. It's a story about a dog and his true owner Andy Evans, a teenage boy. The young man and his loving family, at times have had to fight for ownership rights. Walt Morey captivates the reader.I could not put the book down!
Andy finds a dog that is almost dead lying in the snow by a crashed airplane. The dog's name is Kavik. He takes him home, and he and his family help After a while, Kavik wants to go back to Andy, so he escapes. He travels over 2,000 miles through dangerous territory, experiencing grief, pain, and hunger until he finally gets back to Andy.This story is amazing! I love this book!
This was assigned to my 10 year old to read in school. I read it so that I can be aware of what he is reading. Very good book. I will encourage my other children to read it as well.
If you enjoy books similar to Wolffang or Call of the Wild then you will enjoy Kavik's story.
A small plane has wrecked and the survivor is a surprise. Kavik is a wolf dog and also a champion. This is a great story of adventure and loyalty.
Amazing book!!!!!!!!!! A true tale of courage
This book is one of my favorite books of all time. One of very few books I could read again. I don't know when I read it exactly as a child but it opened my mind and heart to Alaska's dogs.
Read this one as a kid, really enjoyed reading it with my boys.
❤❤❤❤
This was a wonderful children's book, full of heart and life, about the loyalty of an animal and its trek to defy the odds and return to its owner who, selflessly, saved his life after finding him in a plane wreck.
It's a pretty epic story, but there's plenty to appreciate and fall in love with, most especially the title character, and Andy, the teenager with a heart of gold.
This was one of my favorite books when I was a child, and I still recall many of the passages and the emotions that swept over me as I read it for the first time.
The part about the wolves was bittersweet, but I knew it couldn't last, and his mate *SPOILER* was going to die, because he had to get back to Andy.
Too bad they couldn't have docked into Andy's town's dock and seen Kävik there.
Still, I loved how Kävik had his collar on him, so Andy and family knew someone must have loved him aside from Hunter.
I would have liked some elaboration on how Kävik got to Andy's house a 1/2 mile away when his good back leg gave out and he didn't notice he was near the sea.
When I was approx 7-9 years old, I had an imaginary friend named Kavik. He was, indeed, a wolf dog. I considered him my best friend. I still maintain that he was my best friend during that period of time when he lived in my mind.My Kavik is, for all intents and purposes, deceased, but I still have dear memories of him, as with any loved one who dies. I didn't know I got him from a story until I recently stumbled across knowledge of this book's existence.This one gets five stars, hands down.
this was a really good book!! :) it is about a dog, but that didn't bother me. Kavik knows nothing of love and compassion, he is a sled dog bred half wolf, but things will soon change for him again and again. i did think the mating of the dog was a little strange, but i guess thats just me. :) all in all it was very anjoyable, i'm almost tempted to give it a (4.5) rating. :) ages 9 and up can read it. :)
Me leí este libro cuando era pequeña, hace muchos años, y a pesar de no recordar de qué trataba, recodaba que me encantó cuando me lo leí, así que me he decidido a volver a leerlo y sin duda, entiendo por qué me gustó tanto. Totalmente recomendado para las personas que sepan lo que es querer a un animal.
I haven't read this book since elementary school, but I've never forgotten it. I still base all my roleplay wolfdogs off Kavik and his beautiful story. Any book that I still remember nearly twelve years after I read it deserves more stars than I'm allowed to give.I never forgot the title, and I'll never forget the story.
I loved this book so much as a child that I learned everything I could about wolves. I even wrote to David Mech when I was 12 asking how to become an animal behavioralist. I eventually gave up on the idea, but I still grew up to be a scientist. My love of wolves has never faded and I sport a howling wolf tattoo on my left shoulder that I got as soon as I turned 18.
I still have my beloved copy from childhood when I first fell in love with Kavik. Now, I have introduced him to my children and they rooted for him to find his away across 2000 miles of icy, steep terrain to return to the boy who loves him and who he loves too. A dog story with all the odds against him...........Sigh! Gotta love it!
This is a story about a dog/wolf mix who travels 2000 miles to return to the boy who saved his life--just like the synopsis says. What the synopsis doesn't say is how wonderful and detailed the writing is. It is a story of survival and coming of age for both dog and boy--they each learn to make a place for themselves in the world. I would recommend this book to anyone age 8 and up.
This book is a pretty sweet story about a dog/wolf, named Kavik, bred for dog sledding, tough, hard, and no love or sediment. But as Kavik, is sold and transported to a new location, the plane crashes and Kavik is found injured by a young boy who longs for companionship. A bond grows between them and both of them discover the true meaning of friendship and dedication, over many, many miles.
