https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/380976.P_is_for_Peril
Book Review  4 out of 5 stars to P is for Peril, the 16th book in the "Kinsey Millhone" mystery series, written in 2000 by Sue Grafton. What's Kinsey to do when she has the possibility of taking a case for a recently missing doctor who has two wives? OK, well, he did divorce the first wife. But she desperately wants to find him. His second wife, a former stripper, doesn't seem to think he's still alive. Kinsey takes the case, deals with both of them, and tries to find a way to stay out of the
4 out of 5 stars to P is for Peril, the 16th book in the "Kinsey Millhone" mystery series, written in 2000 by Sue Grafton.
What's Kinsey to do when she has the possibility of taking a case for a recently missing doctor who has two wives?
His second wife, a former stripper, doesn't seem to think he's still alive.
Kinsey takes the case, deals with both of them, and tries to find a way to stay out of the middle of it.
Except, Tommy, a hot younger guy is chasing after Kinsey, wanting to get much closer to her.
P is for puzzled, as I think most fans will be when they reach the end of this book.
The people in his life were people you cared little about, and the solution, or lack of one, at the conclusion of the book is very puzzling.
Although I think I understood what Kinsey "was looking at all along", it surely could have had a much clearer ending.
The secondary story line involving the Hevener brothers was far more interesting, and also left quite a few ends dangling.
The book would normally rate 2 stars, one star is awarded because I still like Kinsey.
On the Friday night in question, he'd worked late, remaining in his office to review paperwork related to the operation of the nursing home.
According to witnesses, it was close to nine o'clock when he stopped at the front desk and said good-night to the nurses on duty.
The sixty-nine-year-old doctor had said goodnight to his colleagues at the Pacific Meadows nursing home, had climbed into his car and driven away - never to be seen again.His embittered first wife Fiona is convinced he is still alive.
I’m realizing more and more as I go through the stories that very rarely are any of the characters likable except for those in Kinsey’s immediate circle.
What made this one a little different was the side story of Kinsey needing new office space and her involvement with the Heavener brothers.
With the main mystery being fairly straight forward, this side story provided the intensity and suspense Kinsey’s main case was lacking.
Kinsey also shows her inability to let something go until she gets to the truth and I loved seeing her doggedness really shine in this one.
I look forward to reading Q.
what the hell was that ending? i seriously thought there was an entire chapter missing from my ebook and went looking for it. but no! also, no one was really in peril, except for kinsey, who is always in peril, and in this instance said peril had nothing to do with the case. i wish the whole book had been the brother subplot instead of some medicare scam involving a lesbian stripper. (...put that way, it doesn't sound half-bad! but i assure you, it is bad.) probably my least favorite of the series so far.
P is for Peril is such an unusual book in its own series that the discussion of this novel on the Sue Grafton message board has been turned into a sticky; it is permanently affixed near the top of the topic order so it can easily be found by visitors in search of some kind of explanation.I hadn't even noticed that the book doesn't include Grafton's now-customary epilogue, which takes the form of Kinsey Milhone typing up a quick summary of the case and ties up some of the loose ends, but I had noticed a different vibe in this sixteenth Kinsey novel, a strange detachment from the case and its players as if this is nothing more than a job Kinsey takes for pay.
Still love Kinsey Milhone...but there were 2 things I didn't like about this one.
First, the narrator...I listen to these on my long commute, and I REALLY don't like the new narrator (Judy Kaye).
Kaye says too many of the lines with inappropriate ironic inflection, which I find really annoying.
Second, I hated the ending.
I like Grafton's books because she ties everything into a neat bow at the end.
I like this in light, drive-to-work entertainment.
The story felt like it ended abruptly.
I would've thought I had lost a disc if the narrator hadn't said, "The End." Harumph.
I'm very, very glad that I started reading Sue Grafton again.
There was something about P that reminded me of my favorites in the series (I, J and K) and has me eager to get caught up.
That said, I'm not sure what it is.
It could be the way Kinsey's personal troubles mess with her life while she's working on a case, or it might just be her attitude while working -- I'd need to re-read Grafton's earlier books to be sure.
Or, it could just be that P is well written and tightly plotted.
I’ve enjoyed all of the Kinsey Millhone novels so far but this one was a bit of a letdown.
There are two mystery plots at work in this novel.
But it grew frustrating for both Kinsey and me as she encountered one dead end after another.
I was confident that Kinsey would get to the end like she always does.
I had hopes that the follow-on novel, “Q is for Quarry” might be about the search for that criminal but alas, it doesn’t appear to be the case.
The mystery part of the plot suffered from too many characters and dead ends as well as several mistakes by Kinsey.
Family dynamics takes on a big role in this case when Kinsey Milhone is hired to look into the disappearance of Dowan Purcell, a doctor specializing in geriatrics.
In the previous novel, Kinsey had learned that the lawyer from whom she had been renting some office space was going to be moving.
She has to get out of the relationship and her new office space.
Can she do it before she becomes their next victim while also figuring out what happened to Dowan Purcell?I thought this book seems to have captured the plot rhythm that has made this series so popular.
I think Grafton is doing a great job of really bringing the storyline out.In this novel, Kinsey is hired by an ex-wife, to locate her currently missing ex-husband.
Granted, I did figure out one thing sooner than she did - WAY sooner than she did, but that didn't take away from the book in any way.
This book is full of shady dealings, mysterious friends and lovers, and delinquent youth.
I felt that Grafton did an excellent job of weaving everything together, still keeping the story going.
The previous books were more light-hearted than this one.
This book seemed to miss out on the usual depth of the mystery series which surprised me.
Kinsey's main case was drawn out and just lacked any real significance.
The other personal case of Kinsey's kind of just popped up and seemed almost like a page filler.
Out of all the books there is usually a letter type of epilogue that Kinsey writes to end the book.
This time the story just ended.I usually don't mind having to draw my own conclusions on how a story ended but for this book it just made me feel that I should of read the last page.
I'm listening to this series on CD in the car.
The reader is Judy Kaye.
I listened to a few with a different reader who I liked.
"O is for Outlaw" is the first one I listened to with Judy Kaye.
I wasn't sure I liked what she brought to the character of Kinsey Milhone, but she started to grow on me.
I thought she did a great job with the characters in "P".I like that only a few months have passed in Kinsey's life when the next book comes along.
This is definitely not my favorite Kinsey Millhone mystery.
The whole story was a little disjointed.
Grafton had more than one storyline going and the whole thing came off a little weird.
Then, the story ended so abruptly that I was left confused as to what even happened.
I am used to Millhone's end of the story wrap up and there was none here.
I actually looked to see if the library book had been damaged and pages removed.
Overall, I liked it because I like the series and I like the character, but not because it was a great story.
These "alphabet novels" are nothing short of perfect mystery. Grafton's cleverly crafted characters will stay with you long after you are finished reading the books. Kinsey Milhone, her landord/best friend, Henry and all the others seem so much like real people it is hard to imagine a world without them. I was on the edge of my seat with all the twists and turns, never forseeing what was coming next. I felt that each novel, as Grafton advanced through the alphabet, improved in every way. I would highly recommend the books to anyone who loves a great mystery.
Kinsey investigates the disappearance of Physician. Did he skip the country because of potential Medicare fraud, was he kill to collect the insurance by his vengeful ex-wife or the ex-stripper new wife, or did the step daughter do him in so she can runaway with the money she stole from his account. There is a second story line involving brothers who may have gotten away with murder in Texas.This book has a lot more intrigue than usual. The author keeps you guessing all the way until the end.P is for Peril goes on my favorites list.
I enjoyed this book like I have all of the other books that I have read in this series. I enjoyed being back in the world of Kinsey Millhone. I liked the two plots that were going on and the author kept me guessing with the main mystery. The first story line dealt with a missing man and Kinsey was brought in to find out what happened to him. The second story line dealt with Kinsey finding out something disturbing about someone she came in contact with. She was given the task of tripping them up to get them caught.
✭✭✭✭
Cons: Despite their elegance, the descriptive passages are too frequent and sometimes extraneous, particularly extensive descriptions of characters' fashion and design choices (Kinsey claims not to be very in tune with such matters before commenting on them with a degree of detail that contradicts her.)The subplot becomes disappointingly melodramatic and a little too dark later on - it does contain an intriguing twist involving a certain woman, but even this could have led to several lighter and more satisfying conclusions.
I just read a bunch of bad books in a row and I didn’t want to take a chance on another lousy read, so I reached for something I knew I’d like - another adventure in the life of Kinsey Millhone.
Then I saw that and went over there and decided this.
It’s not annoying because I like the writing and series and I’m reading the book with the express purpose of delving back into Kinsey’s life for a few days – but it occurs to me that this might turn a lot of people off.I felt this way when reading 
Both of Dow's wives, at least one of his business partners, and perhaps even Crystal's teenage daughter had motives to kill.What I liked: I'm glad I didn't read the Goodreads review of this book or I would never have picked it up.
but from the reviews, I will definitely try another letter.Things I didn't like: The subplot with Kinsey and a couple of men whom she wants to rent a new working space from seems to be kind of thrown in to add excitement.
It does, but it just seems a bit disjointed because of how serious this subplot becomes .(I won't spoil anything here for those who want to read it.)Rating: 3.5/5
As Kinsey begins to pursue the case, she learns that the doctor is being investigated for Medicare fraud at the nursing home he was running.
She also learns that his current wife has a daughter from a previous relationship who devotes her time to finding ways to run away.
The mystery takes twists and turns involving ownership of the nursing home and the current wife's ex-husband.
In pursuit of new office space, she meets two brothers who own what seems to be the perfect space for her.
She is immediately attracted to one of the brothers and he reciprocates.
Unlike a sensible person, I haven't been reading this series in order.
That being said, I can't really compare this novel to any of the others in the series, but as a stand-alone, I thought it was alright.
Of the two plot lines (or three, if you count the fraud case), I actually found the second(ary) plot to be the most interesting to read, almost thriller-like.
I probably would have enjoyed the novel more if it had have been the focus, as opposed to the disappearance case, which really didn't become intriguing until the very end.
I am working my way throught he alphabet and while I love Kinsey Milhone's quirky personality this book was not one of the best. The story line about the missing doctor was confusing most of the time... with a lot of discussion of business and many characters and the other storyline about the brothers was more interesting. Kinsey's way of solving mysteries is always fun and unusual to me but this one fell a little flat. The ending definitely left me wondering where is Kinsey's epilogue to tie it all together?
Mixed feelings about this installment. Overall, I think the writing has improved and the plot worked really well. But the addition of the Tommy/Richard subplot seemed almost... cookie cutter. Like the author needed additional material to help this book from becoming a snoozefest. The first 150 pages were slow, but I like the slowness, it shows that being a PI isn't all fast action.
This one was just average. I had seen many people reading her books and enjoying them. but it never got really good; not particularly funny, although witty at times, not too surprising and yet a bit contrived. Up for grabs now.
Thought page(s),i.e.the epilogue went missing. As others have stated, Sue does spin it well, but I do love seeing the i's dotted in "Respectfully submitted---"
Kinsey Millhone could totally can totally kick your ass. Plus she's the only person to ever rock the turtleneck-blazer look.
In this story, private investigator Kinsey Millhone is hired by the ex-wife of a prominent doctor who has been missing for 9 weeks.
The doctor has a current wife, too, so Kinsey is curious as to why the ex would spend money to find him.
Most think that the doctor is still alive and hiding from the Medicare fraud investigation of the nursing home he administers.
It seems so great, but the brothers who manage the new office turn out to be quite dangerous to Kinsey.
I read several of these "alphabet" mysteries by Sue Grafton several years ago.
I am sensing that Ms. Grafton is finding solid footing as the series progresses.
There is still a good bit of unneccesary interiority & exposition that really does nothing to further the plot.
The other thing that continues to bother me is all of the characters that come & go, making it difficult to keep track of them.
The series is also coming to the point where one really needs to have read (at least some of) the earlier novels as there are many allusions to previous events.
Sure, you could read this as a stand-alone, but I would recommend against so doing.
