https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18170143-an-astronaut-s-guide-to-life-on-earth
or it will make you feel infinitely inspired, like you can live more and do more just be more in general, and it will serve as fuel to your rocket, to use a hackneyed analogy.Being what I think of as a jaded sort of optimist, I'm somewhere in-between.But Col. Hadfield is definitely leaning heavily towards the inspiring part, and does so with admirable grace and aplomb.So, really, this is a book about life in general.
It tells you, straight on, that life is this hard thing.
From the first where you see the three astronauts crammed into the rocket, you understand where each of them is sitting, why you can hear Russian and why it is a Soyuz space ship.
So I understand why people think it is a self-help book.
We know most of us will work on Earth and never make it to the ISS, but being an astronaut is a team effort and we are major players in that team."Since the space shuttle got retired the only way to the ISS is via the Soyuz spacecraft.
No physical strength is required in space and the training on Earth is obviously quite achievable for women as there are female astronauts.
The final review is under the audio book.
It was narrated brilliantly by the author, full of warmth, full of humour, full of wanting to share with us all.
Finished.
Proper review to come.
Five stars and no it's not a self-help inspirational book.
Today I listened to the BBC abridged version of this book.
It was so brilliant I didn't think I'd be able to wait for the hardback to come so I downloaded it.
I've just been out, to a beach club with some local music and changed my mind to come home and listen to it.
Particularly, one of the most common faces on those videos is Chris Hadfield, whose name I knew because of the channel and subsequently made me want to pick up his book!The word “guide” in the title of this book was a bit misleading, because it was actually almost a story of Chris’s journey to outer space and back.
This book was everything I wanted that wasn’t just a restatement of what I’ve seen in those videos.The most stand-out part of this is a section where he talks about managing fear.
(But even if you don’t read it, I do recommend looking up those NASA videos on youtube and seeing how people do things in zero gravity.
Warning: Spoiler-ish summary! Getting ready to play “Rocket Man”. Just in case. “If the only thing you really enjoyed was whipping around Earth in a spaceship, you’d hate being an astronaut.”Instead, you sit in a classroom studying orbital mechanics. In Russian. You practice tricky, repetitive tasks as well as highly challenging ones to the point of exhaustion, and you’re away from home more than half the time. An astronaut is a perpetual student. There’s no such thing as over-preparation ; it’
Without gravity, your sinuses don’t clear and your immune system doesn’t fight back as effectively, so you feel much sicker, much longer - and in such a confined space, it’s pretty much guaranteed that the rest of the crew will be infected.In the 1960s, astronauts frequently launched in apparently perfect health, but then, a day or so into the mission, a virus would make its presence known.
The same man who has enough passion to make those videos and promote space exploration so well in that medium can also write a hugely inspiring, humble and insightful work on his life, his philosophies and the universe.Dotted between the stories of Chris' years working at NASA are wonderful insights into behavior such as how to take criticism, how to learn not to worry and plan instead, how to constructively think negatively, how to keep yourself inspired and set and achieve goals.
Once I found out he was publishing a book, I knew I would have to read it, and I assumed I would enjoy it as much as I have his other exploits.What truly surprised me is the aspect I loved most about this book had nothing to do with space travel.
There's always a slightly technical feel to the way Chris writes, but some sections like the opening chapter are beautifully written.
This book isn't a lengthy read, nor a hard one.
Whining is the antithesis of expeditionary behaviour, which is all about rallying the troops around a common goal." (p.151)Actually, there were a lot of things from Hadfield’s memoir that stuck with me — particularly when it came to work.I don’t think that what I’ve experienced is anything new; there are scores of others who likely experience the same problem every day: working on a team where not everybody pulls their weight and you’re stuck being viewed as an equal to someone who continually slacks off and takes the credit for things you may have had to help them out with.Recently, there were two of us who were asked to help a teammate out, but it became quickly clear that we were essentially doing the work for this person — and it was difficult to stem the rising tide of resentment that was building up.And, here, I thought about what Hadfield wrote:"It’s not enough to shelve your own competitive streak.
Like everyone else I ended up adoring the man, but he sure is a preacher, and the book is plump with sermons about being humble, being kind to one's fellow men, the goodness of practice, practice, practice, the importance of being a team player, and loving your family....
All this preaching though is underpinned with solid of examples of Hadfield being an absolutely sterling human being , including having a sense of humour about his tendency to pontificate.I read the book like a snail reading about a ferret.
It was payback time.I thought this was a cracking good read.
Okay, this was a fantastic read!! Wow, I’m really thinking I want to be an Astronaut now, lol. I’m really really glad I decided to pick up this one.
Essentially a long dad-like lecture on how the lessons Chris Hadfield has absorbed from a life in pursuit of the goal of going to space can be applied to your ordinary life here on Earth.
Like any lecture by a beloved parent, there is good and bad here.
The bad: it can be repetitive.
But it is advice that definitely made me feel like Astronaut Chris and I were kindred spirits.
The good: lessons on preventing the single-minded pursuit of a goal from being destructive; conquering fear; making a positive impact on any situation by aiming to have a neutral impact.
It is about seeing other astronauts "cut in line" in front of you, and helping them in their projects and prospects.Of course, Hadfield goes into some detail in describing what life is like in space, especially in the International Space Station.
But most of the book is about his life on Earth, and the lessons that we can all draw from his experiences.
His most basic lesson is "do sweat the small stuff." In space, of course, it is the details that make or break success, indeed, make or break survival.
But here on Earth, also, Hadfield believes that it is the "small stuff" that makes life more fulfilling.
Reads like a job interview. I was hoping for something a bit more sensory. Instead, Hadfield describes his accomplishments unemotionally and without a lot of insight - other than "work hard and dream big!". Hadfield is definitely accomplished and has stories to tell. But I wish each statement didn't end with a notch on his belt.
Col. Chris Hadfield is a rock-star quality astronaut followed by millions of people--I am one of them.
Hadfield relays the story of his life and tells of the obstacles he’s overcome, along the way laying down practical pieces of advice.
Readers not already familiar with Hadfield, but are fans of space travel and life in space will still love this book.
If you are a fan of Col. Hadfield or of space in general, definitely give this book a try.
Another suggestion: If you haven’t already seen Col. Chris Hadfield’s “Space Oddity” video on YouTube, go check it out.
Writing a review on Chris Hadfield's book takes effort; effort you have to be prepared for, sweating the small stuff, with single minded focus and superhuman determination.
It's not as simple as reading the book and writing this review.
Months and months of exacting preparation and endless training, before the book was even released, went into this review.
Then, I wrote endless simulated reviews with all possible star ratings, ran scenario's involving grammar errors and troll comments left below the review, and even a scenario involving Goodreads inexplicably converting to a Youtube format, without notice.
Without question this story was far better told in his voice than any other author's.
This would have done his story far more justice, rather than deliver what feels like a rush job to simply capitalize on his Rock Star status.The book does not deserve a 3, but it is not quite a 4 and I am ever so glad to have read this but I am left wishing there was more.
It is so refreshing to read about Hadfield's lifelong dedication and commitment to achieve his boyhood aspirations.
Instant gratification and shortcuts are preferred over having the experience of undertaking the journey and the satisfaction of having reached the destination through one's diligence and dedication.
Hadfield himself wrote a line which encapsulated the meaning of having the journey before the destination.
I especially enjoyed the tidbits about life on a space station in zero gravity.
Much to my delight, it was also an enlightening and enjoyable read/listen that I will recommend to anyone who loves real-life stories of dedication and commitment, which has its just rewards.
Hadfield explains that you must find joy in the training, in the work, in the preparation, so that even if your dream doesn't happen, you still enjoyed every moment of its pursuit and have something to be proud of at the end.And all the while, manages to write beautifully, come across wonderfully and keep the reader turning the page.I LOVED this book and had I read it sooner in the year, I might have given a copy of it to everyone I know.
Commander Chris Hadfield spent a total of 144 days aboard the International Space Station.
He's the man who tweeted from space and showed us how majestic this planet really is.
Watch his cover of David Bowie's Space Oddity.In this short, but incredibly inspiring book, Chris Hadfield tells us anecdotes, stories, and lessons from his decades of involvement becoming an astronaut.
Check out some of my updates below for quotes I particularly enjoyed.You will love the charming details about being in space.You will learn about leadership, teamwork, and determination.You will cry at the ending.It's a small glimpse into the life of a hero, but it's well worth it.

The space geek in me thoroughly enjoyed this book.
for Olivia and sam: the reason this book gets one star is because he is so goddamn full of himself.
Sure it's cool and stuff that he's an astronaut but at the end of the day it's just a job and your paid to do it.
It felt like I was reading the same thing over and over again, I spent the whole time wishing there would be a climax but there never was one.
It was like listening to someone who is monotone to be honest.
More or less this would have made a really nice like "special edition: Chris hadfield" magazine with some cool photos
This book is written by Col. Chris Hadfield, a Canadian astronaut.
Hadfield writes about the technical aspects of being an astronaut from the preparations, to the space missions, to returning home.
That, alone, was interesting to read but he also writes about how all of his training had prepared him for life in general, whether it was work related, family related or personally related.
Along with some of the technical terms, Hadfield also writes with humor which makes this an easy read.
I think this is a great, inspirational book and I highly recommend it!
Chris Hadfield's book is an autobiography, an astronaut's memoir, and in the first half, a self-help guidebook to developing the kind of mental attitude it takes to be an astronaut.
It is a very interesting book and I enjoyed reading it.Due to Hadfield's son's interest in photography, we have videos about life aboard the ISS:http://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=...Hadfield can sing!https://youtu.be/KaOC9danxNoSome people think Hadfield is arrogant, but I completely disagree.
Others are less than enthusiastic about the title of this book, 'An Astronaut's Guide to Life on Earth' thinking it a self-help book.
It sounds like a mental or New Age self-help title but I thought his advice is sound, if a bit too repetitious and extended in the early autobiographical portions.
By and large, I find that I really don’t need Plan C, but it is useful to have anticipated disaster and to know “where do I go from here?” (But I also have a little saying: What Miss Wanda wants, Miss Wanda gets—I’m pretty used to getting my own way!)Like Hadfield, I also believe in enjoying the small things.
Hadfield answers most of my questions about living conditions aboard the ISS (although I’m still wondering how female astronauts/cosmonauts deal with the bathroom issue?) In addition to the danger factor, that alone would keep me from ever wanting to go to space!
Great balls of fire, what a great book! Hadfield is my new hero. Well written, funny, insightful, and the perfect narrator to his own book to boot. 5 solid stars!
Chris Hadfield is the Canadian hero we all deserve.
During a sim, the flight director or lead astronaut makes notes on major events, and afterward, kicks off the debrief by reviewing the highlights: what went well, what new things were learned, what was already known but needs to be re-emphasized.
Even having read his description of it, I cannot imagine what it must be like to gaze at the Earth from the Cupola of the ISS, knowing it’s the very last time you will ever see the planet in this way in person.Hadfield closes by reminding us to find satisfaction in the small things in life:If I’d defined success very narrowly, limiting it to peak, high-visibility experiences, I would have felt very unsuccessful and unhappy during those years.
However, I enjoyed learning about how astronauts train and work, and I appreciated the numerous lessons Hadfield imparts to the reader.
I found it similar to Mike Massimino's book, in that both of them have valued their time on Earth more than their time in space.
Both genuinely believe that the journey is what one should be proud of and enjoy, not the destination.
Being in space was great, but solving problems and getting jobs done as an astronaut, CAPCOM, director, and pilot were the richest and most valuable experiences Hadfield had.
The book was alright, but the author is a great man.
Hadfield himself comes across as both ordinary and extraordinary, seasoned but wide-eyed, content but as determined as ever to contribute to the society that allowed him to fulfill his lifelong dream of space travel.The tenets of the philosophy Hadfield espouses are straightforward: (in my own words) work hard, work with passion, work with others, work for others, take pleasure in the little things, be prepared for anything, humble yourself, and learn, always.
In these ways, Hadfield has managed to find happiness and maintain it over a lifetime of stress, long hours, travel, and endless learning, and even after his final stint in space was complete and his retirement nigh.There was a lot to love and enjoy over the course of these pages.
