https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/878128.The_Friend_of_Madame_Maigret
So it is with Madame Maigret, who regularly meets a woman dressed in a tailored blue suit with a fine white hat.
All of a sudden, the woman hands over her child to Madame Maigret and vanishes not for a few minutes, as promised, but for two hours.
Madame Maigret never even learned either the woman’s or her child’s names.Meanwhile, an anonymous call alleges that the best and most expensive bookbinder in Paris has been burning a body in his furnace.
Madame Maigret's Own Case (L'amie de Mme Maigret] gives the French police inspector a seemingly impossible problem: A bookbinder is arrested for suspicion of murder when two human teeth are found in his furnace.
Also, not a million miles away, Mme Maigret is waiting on a park bench chatting with an acquaintance with a child.
She is about to go into the adjoining dentist's office when suddenly the other woman thrusts her child on Mme Maigret and disappears.
Instead of a strange omnium-gatherum of a plot, we have a tight case in which several people are charged, after TWO murders have been committed.
The story starts with her careful preparation of lunch, leaving the fire on low as she leaves the apartment for a dental appointment.Waiting in the park across from the dental office she is asked to watch a young toddler by a woman in a white hat.
This turns out badly for Madame Maigret since she misses her appointment whilst nervously awaiting the return of the woman.
Of course the lunch is found burned to cinders.This turn of events connects to a case Maigret is currently investigating.
On her own initiative Madame Maigret walks the streets of Paris searching for the millinery shop that created the white hat, thus lending a big clue toward solving the case.
In the process not only has the appointment been missed but Maigret's dinner has burned as he returned to their appartment to find his wife absent and neglectful in her duties.The significance of this encounter comes to light when Maigret tracks down the taxi that took the woman away and sees a possible link and convergence with a case he has been unable to crack.I found this new appraoch to a crime mystery refreshing and it perhaps highlights that bit if luck sometimes needed by the police to break open a difficult investigation.it is also a refreshing story as Maigret states he wishes to start the investigation again which implies he isn't fully in control and much of the work has been undertaken by others.
Following on from this event, Mme Maigret plays detective for a while and her close observational skills are crucial in finally cracking the case.A further layer of complication is added by an ambitious young defence lawyer who is publicly taunting Maigret about his investigation and another still in the way Jules handles a wet-behind-the-ears detective with almost paternal kid gloves.Put all of this together and you have a recipe that’s entirely successful.The Friend Of Madame Maigret (US) is a very stylish episode that shines a bright light on Maigret’s personal life.
Great fun, as well as a wonderful picture of the small and vulnerable characters of Paris.The GR blurb is:"In The Friend of Madame Maigret, Simenon's economic prose brilliantly portrays the Marais quarter of Paris and those who haunt its narrow streets as Inspector Maigret attempts to prove that a murder has actually been committed without a corpse anywhere to be found.
As the investigation becomes increasingly complex, seemingly unconnected characters are drawn into the case, and Maigret begins to wonder if his wife's earlier strange encounter with a woman and her baby may be the missing link."
Un Maigret in ottima forma quello di questo giallo.
In the old days it was often so: one shirt on, one in the wash and one for best, and that's if you had one to be in the wash.I've often wondered as I read Maigret's adventures what Madame did all day; this volume gives a lot of light on that, as well as on what it's like to live with Maigret.
I love knowing that Maigret fakes his gruff-and-grumble when he's actually quite pleased with his case, because he knows les enfants (and sometimes Madame) expect it of him.
Una donna come la signora Maigret non può finire in prima pagina.
Cosa le sarà successo?Noi lettori non possiamo che esserne felici, poiché quella che, per tanti romanzi, è stata soltanto una figura secondaria, di sfondo, sfruttata come componente tranquillizzante di una normalità domestica, diventa finalmente reale.Il commissario Maigret non può permettere che accada qualcosa alla sua famiglia.
Ma non è il solo, poiché anche la signora Maigret non si lascia zittire.
Lei stessa deve capire che fine ha fatto la sua amica, quella che prima l‘ha coinvolta e poi è scomparsa nel nulla.
The eighth 'Maigret' novel I have read and one of the best so far. The solving of the crime relies on a coincidence that is utterly plausible. It was nice to learn more about Maigret's wife and to observe a little of the great detective's domestic life.
Georges Simenon has written all these brilliant, existential, French novels that feature Chief Inspector Maigret.
The police receive an anonymous note that a body has been burned in a furnace of a local book binder. Teeth are found in the furnace giving credence to the the anonymous note. In his usual dogged, steady fashion, Inspector Maigret investigates.
****.We learn of two allegedly unrelated events: Mme. Maigret was sitting on a bench in the park – she was early for her dental appointment – when a woman and a young child sat next to her.
After a couple of hours, during which time Mme. Maigret was becoming increasingly concerned, the woman came by in a taxi and called to the child.
He was currently working on a case where an anonymous note to the police claimed that a man had been burned to death in an apartment furnace.
Excellent plotting and characterizations make for a suspenseful read.
Cependant, je ne dirais pas que c’était mauvais du tout - l’écriture est assez beau avec d’humour, et du plus, l’intrigue elle-même est bonne.Ce livre par Georges Simenon s’agit d’un inspecteur qui doit prouver qu’un meutre a eu lieu.
Deux dents et une rencontre entre sa femme, Madame Maigret, et une femme avec son enfant.
Bien que j’hésiterais à dire que j’ai compris plus que 3/4 du livre L’amie de Madame Maigret c’était vraiment un voyage intéressant.
Peut-être le prochain fois je le lirai en anglais dans l’espoir que je vais comprendre un peu plus!

نوع الرواية "جريمة " تحدث جريمة قتل وتبدأ الشرطة بالتحقيق في هذه الجريمة شعرت نفسي ضائعة حاولت تدارك الوضع وأن اركز اكثر ولكن لم تعجبني قرأت الكثير من روايات الجرائم وعشقي هذا النوع ولكن لم تعجبني هذه القصة /الجريمة
A bewildering crime, and an unusual central role in the investigation of Madame Maigret, who thanks to a enforced wait before her dental appointments, befriends a woman and a small child.
Madame Maigret has unwittingly stumbled across an accomplice to a double murder, and by using her knowledge of Parisian fashion discovers both the woman's identity, and indirectly the name of one of the murder victims.
In the end we discover that the bookbinder has been involved with the forgery of passports, and his accomplices, who murdered once when stealing from a countess, have also killed a client who threatened to reveal them.
Main reasons why I disliked this book:1. The portuguese translation of this book was honestly awful, making the reading very painful2. I was unable to connect with the story or have whatsoever interest in any part of it since the characters lacked personal underground and the crime seemed so stupid no one could take it seriously. (stress, sadness, despair, fear? all those feelings usually present in these books? not included)3. You feel an emptiness of everything. Finding amazing evidences, being in track of wrong clues are not a THING in this book.The story just happens. End of it.
Madame Maigret is waiting on a bench for a dentist appointment when a lady in a white hat with a young child engages her in conversation.
Later, she asks Maigret to watch her child for a minute that turns into hours.
Is this lady somehow, by chance, connected with a crime the chief inspector is working on?
He has received an anonymous note that a book binder has burned a body in his shop furnace, and indeed two human teeth are found in that furnace.
Has a crime been committed?
This is a perplexing case but dogged detective work slowly brings the truth to light.
What a pretentious cock I've been my entire life to have vehemently kept myself from reading what I consider "genre-fiction," or "Low brow fiction," because here--a clear detective novel--I've fallen in love with what I was always so quick to blindly criticize; I've fallen in love with the unfolding of a puzzling and skittish little plot!I recommend this fun little novella to anyone with a few hours to spare, any dose of the Sunday blues and enough for a few glasses of brandy.
A GR friend whose judgment I respect rated this mystery one star higher than the other Maigret stories he read recently, so I gave it a try and it exceeded my expectations. I wanted to read one because Maigret was the favorite detective of my stepfather, who was police chief of a European city. I found some of the attitudes old-fashioned in an unfortunate way but overall it was a pleasant pastime.
Classique Maigret où finalement Mme Maigret n'est pas si présente ! (Mais sérieusement, qui choisit les titres des Maigret ? ça tombe toujours à côté). Dans ce sens, j'étais un peu déçue car je l'aime bien.Toujours agréable à lire, la presse reste comme dans d'autres Maigret un ressort surexploité selon moi, ici il y a aussi une grande part de hasard, mais au final, c'est toujours une ambiance agréable et une belle écriture qui en fait une chouette lecture.
I thought I would love it more. It's a short read and I expected to finish it in a couple of days at most. I found my mind wandering and getting confused about losing interest.Simenon is considered a GREAT writer, so I'll probably try another of his books. This one just didn't do it for me.
Никога не съм бил особен фен на криминалния жанр, още по-малко на модерните му представители, но класиките в него радват с простия си, ясен език и непретенциозното действие. Книгите на Сименон пък имат и добавения бонус да показват франция от началото и средата на миналия век."Мегре и детегледачката" е българското заглавие на книгата, което издание ме мързи да добавя тук.
I'm really enjoying Maigret's adventures. I'm frankly deducting a star solely because I would've liked certain details to have been handled differently and Madame Maigret to at least make an appearance at the end (spoiler, she really doesn't). Otherwise quite enjoyable :) Maigret's love for his people and profession seeps through every line :)
3.5, I liked it. Simenon is my one of most favorite authors. I like Maigret as a police chief, his patience and his ways of doing things. There is less drama in this series which makes it more likable to me.
The coincidence that allows the knotty conspiracy to be unraveled is a bit much, and the use of the eponymous spouse for a kind of pandering comic relief hasn't really aged well. But other than that (says Mme Maigret), the revelation and resolution of the mystery is satisfying.
Confusing plot and too many names made it hard to keep track and the Hebrew translation was too archaic to fully comprehend.
.
A bookbinder tries to cover for his brother.
