https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/130363.Peter_the_Great
This lengthy biography of Russian Tsar Peter the Great is thoroughly entertaining with all the strengths and weaknesses of a blockbuster.
No prior knowledge of the period required.Maybe because it is a biography it doesn't give much attention to the extent of the terror and suffering caused by the massive mobilisation and movements of population caused by his military and civil policies (Anisimov's book The Reforms of Peter the Great Progress Through Coercion in Russia is great on this even if the title does sum up the argument).
Generally weak on context, poor on Peter's circle and on his impacts (or the lack thereof).
(view spoiler)[Bettie's BooksThe rating, any status updates, and those bookshelves, indicate my feelings for this book. (hide spoiler)]
Seriously, to make 850+ dense pages of Russian history read like a novel, you have to be doing something right, and Massie clearly is so don’t be intimidated by the size or weight of the book as it is well worth the read.Massie doesn’t just do a terrific job of following the life of Peter the Great, but he paints a detailed picture of late 17th century and early 18th century Russia, he delves in to the intrigue of Europe and the Ottoman Empire with substantial portraits of other leaders such as Charles the XII of Sweden (and note to readers, apparently Sweden kicked a lot of ass back then, who knew?), The Sun King Louis the XIV, Augustus of Poland, Frederick William of Prussia, and numerous others.
Massie won my heart with his book about Catherine the Great, so I definitely had to read the one about Peter as well.
What I mostly enjoyed in this book was the fact that not only was Peter's portrayal as true and extensive as possible, but also that the author took great care to represent the bigger picture, including extended depictions of many other major - and minor - players of the era, both in Europe and in Russia.
He was a force of nature, and perhaps for this reason no final judgment will ever be delivered." And while no final judgement may exist, this exquisite book will be a true treasure for all those who wish to learn more about Peter and his world.
The only person I know today that practices this form of discipline is Snoop Dogg (You gots to control your ho!).
Peter was great for many reasons.
Peter was the first ruler to travel amongst Europe and bring some culture back to Russia.
Peter was highly intelligent and you could compare him to the great Thomas Jefferson.
Peter brought many great things to his country and he did not try to take over his halfbrothers legacy, eventhough his half sister Sophia was power hungry and made an attempt on his life.
He was interested in knowledge and bettering himself as he built a powerful navy for Russia.
Robert Massie's "Peter the Great: His life and World" has been a wonderful book to listen to, for me.
I will talk about Massie's wonderful ability to "tell Peter's story" without fictionalizing soon.
It is not a great novel of fictionalized history, or a historical novel so praise of Massie's ability to tell Peter's story should not be confused.
Massie managed to capture the complexity that surrounds the reign of the man who built Russia, but he also captured the essence of what it meant to be a Russian in the time of Peter the Great.
Can one man raise a country from mud to glory? Yes, if its Peter, Tsar of Russia.Can one book capture the complexity of the people, the country and their first truly great leader who dragged the country kicking and screaming into the heart of European geopolitics?Yes. This is the book. One of the best works of narrative history ever. This is how history should come alive.
It's been many years since I read this book, so I can't be terribly detailed, but I will tell you that this book is what led to my fascination with the Russian Tsars.
When I was reading it, I would think to myself, "I can actually smell the city." A truly amazing and enthralling book about history.My original edition was an old, used paperback, but it's back in Montana because my dad shamelessly stole it.
I purchased a new, hardcover edition a few years ago from a bargain bin, so I'll have to re-read this amazing book again!
(không phải là review)vài ghi nhớ:+ Pyotr Đại đế đã biến Nga từ chỗ một đất nước lạc hậu thành một đế quốc bằng cách học theo phương Tây.
(Sau này, Nhật trở thành một đế quốc hùng cường cũng bằng cách học theo phương Tây.)+ Ông học cách đóng tàu của người Hà Lan, Anh và Venice.
Ông cũng cho áp dụng luật La Mã trong các tranh chấp giữa người Nga và người nước ngoài.+ Ông không ưa xu nịnh.
An excellent and highly enjoyable biography.
Having panned Massie's first book, Nicholas and Alexandria (1967), I have to congratulate him on this one, written thirteen years later: Peter the Great.
However, I don't know as much about the period of Peter's life (1672-1725) as I did about Nicholas' (1868-1917) so some of the applause may be credited to my ignorance and credulousness, but I also think that Massie put more work into researching and writing this biography and that thirteen years, and several books, have made him a better writer.
An additional consideration is that the personalities of Massie and his wife intruded more into the Nicholas book because of their interest in the hemophilia running in the family.
I have always been fascinated by Russian history and decided that it was finally time to check this book out of the library.
It wasn't that I didn't want to read it--I mean, it won the 1981 Pulitzer Prize for Biography--it was that every time I go to the library I emerge with an armload of books and, at over 900 pages, this book could literally inflict damage if it slipped from my grasp and fell.
Not only is this book simply overflowing with information about the life and times in which Peter the Great lived, it reads like a novel.
Ένα από τα καλύτερα ιστορικά βιβλία που έχω διαβάσει. Ένα βιβλίο που δεν μας δίνει απλά μία βιογραφία του Μεγάλου Πέτρου αλλά ζωντανεύει μπροστά μας ολόκληρη την εποχή που έζησε. Είναι βέβαια αρκετά μεγάλο και παρέχει έναν ιδιαίτερα μεγάλο όγκο πληροφοριών, η μεθοδικότητά του συγγραφέα όμως και η σχεδόν μυθιστορηματική γραφή του το κάνει να μην είναι σε κανένα σημείο κουραστικό.
It would also be during this time that Peter would marry a wife he did not love, have a son that he did not care for, and see, build, and sail his first boat (which would eventually become "the grandfather of the Russian navy").
All at the age where most boys would be entering high school.Season 2: Journey to the West: Unlike most of his fellow countrymen, Peter had a great love for foreigners and foreign things (in fact, both his mistress and his second wife, Catherine were foreigners).
Good luck with the war." It's a shame that King Charles and Peter the Great never met one-on-one.
When I started reading this 900-page tome, I said to my daughter that I can’t believe I’m reading 900 pages about Peter the Great. She laughed and said that she can. She knows me and my fascination with royalty well. I liked this just fine, but there were parts that dragged on quite a bit, specifically the lengthy and detailed war and battle parts. That sort of stuff bores me to no end. I was more interested in learning about him, his family, and lifestyle. Here is Peter the Great interrogating his son.
Excellent book about one of the towering figures (Peter I was 6'7") in world history. After reading this I have read many books about Peter, but this is still the best.
If You were Peter the GreatYou would kill your sonBecause he had no interest in TsardomBecause you’d planted an autocrat seedAnd it grew into a common man treeAnd you couldn’t coerce it out of its natureSo you’d pull out the axTimber!Sap/blood flowing free[CRB] Robert K.
He won many battles, lost many, invented the scorched earth policy used by Russian rulers ever hence, accomplished much of what he dreamed of, but the drain on the country and its able-bodied was immense.
But I said I’d quit complaining.) He was a thoroughly bad man, even measured by the standards of the day, who accomplished wonderful things and transformed his country in good ways that lived long after him.
Massie's magnum opus, "Peter the Great: His Life and World" is 855 pages of finely researched work.
This being the third Massie book I've read, despite the greatness of this work, I still consider "Catherine the Great" Massie's finest.
Male readers might appreciate the details outlined by Massie of the military campaigns led by Peter, while female readers like myself are more likely to appreciate the personal details and stories of this piece.
In spite of this, Massie's research is plain to see and is a fantastic history of the life and times of Russia's first truly great tsar.

A tome to read for certain, but very well written and so much information. Amazing story and a great introduction to Modern Russian history for me.
Incredible biography, bigger than life subject. The passages on England are even more revealing than the passages on Russia!
Charles the XII of Sweden invades Russia; his army sustains itself partly by hanging little peasant children unless Mom reveals the family's stash of winter food (without which they will surely starve).
Too bad Sophia had already made sure she'd be locked up for life.I admit, a lot of the little details washed out of my brain as soon as I'd read them.
I do feel that I understand Russia a little better after reading this book.This is by no means an extensive review.
There's no way I could do the book justice.
If you want a thorough look at the life and times of Peter the Great, this is it.
Robert Massie is a master of historical narrative, and here he turns his attention to a subject fully deserving of his exhaustive style.
By shear force of will, Peter overcame all opposition as he guided the largest country in Europe into modernity.
Among his accomplishments were the founding of a new capital city (St. Petersburg) and the ex nihilo creation of what would become one of the most powerful navies in the world.The historical narrative, engagingly spun and interwoven with the larger European thread, is fascinating enough, but it is in its biographical aspects that this book really shines.
It is never an easy task to change the way a large mass of people think and yet this is exactly what one single man did to the Russian empire in the 16th and 17th centuries and this book is his story.Russia in the 16th century was far below the stature of all the European nations in terms of advancements in almost every conceivable field.
The outcome of the war is the rise of Russia and the downfall of Sweden on the world stage where Peter finally emerges as a force to be reckoned with.The later years and reforms : A fine study of change management is the last phase of Peter’s life wherein he tries coaxing, cajoling and threatening to drive change across his nation.
After reading this book, it is impossible to deny that "the Great" is a well-earned title for Peter.
Massie's very readable biography illustrates how one remarkable man almost singlehandedly pulled Russia from the dark ages right into the middle of the European theater.
It would take an entire book for me to even list all the reasons this man was so remarkable (but hey, that's why you should read this one!).
One of Massie's greatest strengths as a biographer is his ability to place his character's decisions and attitudes in their broad historical contexts.
Great read, and an entire European history course as well.
pfff, long book. glad it's over
Peter liked to play war games as a boy.
The great embassy: He had a tour of Western Europe and learned so much from his trip, particularly ship building and naval fares.
Overall, he should be credited as transforming Russia from a backward and largely unimportant nation (the Ottoman Empire only uses their vassal state to deal with them) to a major player in the European stage (monarchs all over Europe are linked to Russian royals in marriages).But more than his contributions to the realm, Peter is a fundamentally interesting person: exceedingly tall and well built, forward looking but unrefined, decisive and yet kind, visionary but with simple tastes.
I came to this book looking for a slice of Peter the Great, but Robert Massie is not the kind of person to serve up a half-measure of anything.
Instead of a quick dish I could sample, Massie sets the table with all of the Renaissance accouterments, the 50 course meal, the kegs of kvass and bottles (and bottles and bottles) of vodka, with the mock Tsar presiding, Charles XII rampaging across the hall, and the illumination of the Sun King shining from afar.
You will learn Peter by immersion.
Peter the Great comes alive in the telling.
When he backs up to put Peter in the context of the 18th century by comparing him to other rulers who were also autocratic and even brutal when necessary but get better press because their homelands aren't as mysterious as Russia, his writing is special.
Peter bolts off the page as a curious, energetic, even frenetic, willful, nation-changing presence.But rare indeed is the writer who can maintain a five-star level for THIS long unless the subject he or she is undertaking is already at the core of the reader's interest.
Less fascinating (and the reason for my subjective 3 1/2-star rating) was the seemingly endless wars with Sweden and other countries, told in exhaustive detail.
Or perhaps it is just personal preference when it comes to reading biographies which also serve as a history of a country, such as in this book.However, I learned much about Russia, and of the world at that time, by reading this book, and I would recommend it to almost anyone who is a fan of serious biography.
