https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/164312.The_Lurker_at_the_Threshold
An experienced reader will suspect early on that this book wasn't written by Lovecraft but his publisher August Derleth.
At some point the author trots out a comprehensive list of every single Big Name creature in the Cthulhu mythos, and the reader suddenly feels that rather than reading a Lovecraft story with its eerie economy, they're taking in the written equivalent of Destroy All Monsters, WrestleMania, or a commercial for the M.U.S.C.L.E. collector toys.
Apparently Derleth's Lovecraft project was to systematize the original "fragments," and in so doing, to suck out most of the juice.
Despite that, I found this quite an effective and well written work, and Derleth's vision, if not entirely in keeping with Lovecraft's own, was not wholly incompatible either.
There's a lot of good, if derivative, stuff in here and a nice sense of sustained menace running throughout the piece.
Derleth might not have "got" Lovecraft entirely, but he understood enough about what made him an effective horror writer as regards the basics of tone, imagery, characterisation, and plot not to drop the ball.
A pity considering all the good work leading up to it.
I even feel that some previous lines of Lovecraft's have been paraphrased here.So I guess my problem lies more in that Lovecraft's name is attached to this book as a co-author.
I guess having Lovecraft's name on it keeps the ripping off of previous ideas in ok territory?
I do not feel like this had any of Lovecraft's voice to it.
This novel tends to ramble and I felt that many pages could have been cut from it.This was the type of book I pick up, can only read 5 pages at a time before I start rereading the same paragraphs over and my mind wanders.
Overall, I enjoyed this more than my three-star rating would suggest, although not as much as my recent Lovecraft read The Case of Charles Dexter Ward. However, this is written in three sections from different points of view, and the final, shortest one from the suddenly-introduced professor's assistant is abrupt and have a pretty abrupt ending. A lot of slow build up and then not much.
I tend to defend Dereleth but this was disappointing. A rushed ending that comes in the final 2 pages, and not a terribly original one.

Most of the reviews that have been posted so far seem to be from Lovecraft purists who object to Derleth's creation of a novella from a 1200-word sketch by HPL.
Derleth does a sound job of tracing his malignant influence.
Derleth also makes good use of Lovecraft's literary apparatus - his cosmology, his imaginary New England landscape, the sights, sounds and even the smells of the Lovecraft landscape (gambrel roofs ...
If you don't like Derleth's treatment, you don't have to read the book.
As for me, I am at present re-reading it for about the tenth time.
I like it!
Entre Arkham y Dunwich hay una gran zona de colinas boscosas que a comienzos de siglo XIX pertenecieron a Alijah Billington y que siempre ha generado rumores e inquietud entre los habitantes de la zona.
En marzo de 1921 se hace público que Ambrose Dewart, descendiente de Alijah, va a comenzar los trabajos de rehabilitación y restauración de la casona Billington.
Cuando los trabajos terminan, los rumores vuelven a comenzar en la zona, aunque Ambrose es totalmente ajeno a ellos y únicamente trata de mantener en orden el patrimonio familiar y seguir las extrañas instrucciones que su antepasado dejó por escrito.
Derleth took notes Lovecraft made, wrote this story himself, and put Lovecraft's name on it.The theme begins Lovecraftian, but the whole binding of the Old Ones with elements begins here, and the last half of the book is a lovely example of Derleth driving Lovecraft's brilliant ideas into the ground.
Even more ridiculous, unimaginative and offensive, might I add, is the fact that they solve the problem by dropping an atom bomb on R'lyeh.If you ask me, that wouldn't do a goddamn thing.On a side note, Derleth claims to own the copyright to Lovecraft's work, but hasn't brought a suit against anyone publishing Lovecraft on the Web. Why?
Because he has no case.
Почитателям Лавкрафта и только .It's been almost two years since I made a promise not to read Lovecraft, because this writing reminds the mind of a sick person, with paranoid abnormalities.
Although I, for a second, a huge admirer of horror and thrillers.But, such a comprehensive love for reptiles, in every story, well, straight in everyone, in the end, everything is mixed, there is not a single story that would be remembered or did not remind others.To whom to read?
Lovecraft's admirers and only.
I've read Derleth's short story collection "The Watchers Out of Time" (also falsely marketed as being by Lovecraft) and the majority of stories there follow the following plotline -- A man inherits a long-abandoned house of his ancestors, he moves in, discovers a dark history of cultism, bad stuff happens.
Ambrose stays with Stephen for a time to get away from the creepy old house in Billington Woods, and when he returns Stephen comes along and can tell Ambrose now has a dual personality and something is taking over Ambrose's mind.
The Lurker at the Threshold owes as much to August Derleth as it does to Lovecraft and is the only original full-length novel after Charles Dexter Ward.
Nonetheless, the book has a cumuluative power thanks to authentic and atmospheric scene-setting among the backwoods of rustic America and the convincing cod-scholarship which was Lovecraft's trademark.
Overall Lovecraft/Derleth conjure up a genuine atmosphere of unease.
Personally, I found this a handy resume of the Lovecraft universe and might even make 'Lurker' a good starting point for non-Lovecraft afficionadoes.

Ambrose Dewart inherits an old mansion in rural Massachusetts and as he investigates his family history, the sinister estate begins to take hold on him...This novel is actually mostly written by August Derleth from a few fragments left by Lovecraft after his death. As a result, the prose is somewhat less...impenetrable (apart from a few passages written in olde English)...and, there's dialogue! But if you've read much Lovecraft already, the story and content is going feel like more of the same. If you're new to his work and his world, it may serve as a decent introduction.
Derleth's posthumous "collaborations" weren't bad as short stories. Despite being derivative of Lovecraft and resorting to turgid writing, most of them managed to maintain some goofy charm. Not "The Lurker at the Threshold," whose writing is so terrible it becomes some sort of endurance test. Worse, Derleth fills the final third of the book with pointless exposition, thereby destroying what meager sense of suspense or urgency managed to remain from the previous two-thirds of the story.
Worse and slower than most Lovecraft books. Probably because this is more a Derleth book than a Lovecraft book. If this turned you of from Lovecraft, please give him another shot. That said, it was mostly in line of what Lovecraft's stories are about, just less skillful and far slower. It is disingenuous to put Lovecraft's name on this, but it is a passable piece of Lovecraftian horror.
I remember sitting in our family room in Santa Fe, the snow falling outside, holding this new baby wrapped in a warm blanket, way too early in the morning, while reading a page or two at a time.
Over the last few years I would - every once in a while - pick up this book and read a few pages.
But without any good reason, this book is special to me because of the memories that have attached themselves to it, and I read it like a treasured, aged, rare bottle of expensive scotch.
I had a good time with the first 2/3rds of the book. The last third became a strangely academic exposition of the Great Old Ones. I found it so jarring I took to the internet to find out if this was maybe one of Lovecraft's last works and he was trying to tie a bow on his mythos. I was surprised to learn that 98% of the book was not written by Lovecraft. Felt duped. The final third of the book eventually came to a very rushed ending. Didn't feel it held up to the promise of the beginning.
This is a pale imitation of the original Lovecraft's work, executed by another person from notes Lovecraft left and story ideas of his, but mainly that person's original work, so it is falsely advertised in calling it written by Lovecraft.
According to Stephen Jones and Kim Newman in Horror: 100 Best Books, Derleth incorporated into this novella two Lovecraft fragments that, together, amount to a mere 1,200 words of material."Lurker" consists of three consecutive narratives.
Also, there are definitely echoes of Lovecraft's most famous stories in Derleth's prose, such as the well-known openings of "The Call of Cthulhu," "The Color Out of Space," and "The Dunwich Horror." It would not surprise me at all if Derleth had intended "Lurker" to be the crown jewel of the expanded Mythos: a sort of summing up of what was then (at the time of writing) the state of the art.
B.
Started good, but then it sorta got away from me.
Good book but a bit difficult to comprehend at times due to the older style of writing + the subject matter names from a time long, long ago.
Not bad but it was obvious most of this was written by Derleth.
Not an HP Lovecraft story. It was written by August Derleth. He used some notes as inspiration and created something vaguely Lovecraftian. The story is horribly written and frustrating.
It's like if Marvel did a Lovecraft Universe series of garbage movies.
One of the best Lovecraft stories I have read so far.
Well I was reading this book around 2 in the morning when I noticed that for the past few hours I'd been hearing a 'snap' sound every few minutes.
I had heard it before that night, but had always assumed it was my housemate in the room next to me, who had a habit of clapping and snapping and whooping all the time when he was excited.
She said "YES." So I got my book of Grimm's fairy tales, sat on the side of the bed, and told her I'd read only the weird stories.
“Unearthing Hidden Family Horrors” Lovecraft’s 1945 gothic horror tale of extraterrestrial evil is set in New England, near the Miskatonic River (and University of the same name) in arcane Arkham. Ancient rites and decadence focus their vicious activity around the area of Dunwich, whose residents skulk in shadows and bear remnants of their bestial inbreeding. The strange legends of odd voices and weird lights—followed by eerie disappearances and subsequent reappearance of corpses—reveal a chill
“Unearthing Hidden Family Horrors”	Lovecraft’s 1945 gothic horror tale of extraterrestrial evil is set in New England, near the Miskatonic River (and University of the same name) in arcane Arkham.
Now the last the of the line, Ambrose Dewart, has returned to America--determined to renovate the decrepit estate and reestablish the family name.
Each man in turn seeks to fathom the meaning of the list of Rules which Alijah had set forth for his descendants.
It is an ominous hint that a third-person narrative provides the concluding manuscript--not a member of this hated and feared family.
Likewise, my “heaven” is not populated by monsters as is the “outside” of Lovecraft and I have no fears about “disturbing the pattern of existence for fear of what may lie just beyond, in an extension of time or space with which none of us is prepared to cope.” My heroic humans will cope quite well.
Are they gods only because they are so powerful and horrible that man worships them out of fear?
If he seems to be a god to the advanced aliens in his empire, what will the humans make of him?
