https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4961048-wishful-drinking
Okay, not Schopenhauer profound, but still.Wishful Drinking is fluff, I guess, in the sense that it won’t change your life or even your lunch break.
True, Fisher’s relentless wisecracking starts to sound needy and defensive after a while—he said, casually lobbing a rock from his glass house—but I think it’s to her credit that, despite her freakish Hollywood existence, she’s still human enough to laugh at herself.
Come to think of it, what could be more freakish than that: a human being in Hollywood?
Carrie Fisher's ever-present sarcasm rubbed me the wrong way. It was entertaining in the beginning but does one need to be sarcastic 24/7 to be funny? NO. I especially don't recommend the audiobook. Also, while this is shocking at times, it is not very insightful or meaningful. But, well, R.I.P. Carrie Fisher.
Audiobook - Library Overdrive- I downloaded this on a whim - it was available. I think this is the shortest Audiobook I’ve ever listened to - yet many topics are covered. There was a lot I didn’t know - including that Carrie Fisher was married - not long - to Paul Simon. Actually there was a lot I didn’t know — I didn’t follow any news about Princess Leia from Star Wars. I knew nothing about her childhood - her absent father - her history with drugs - her history with a variety of psychiatrists
I knew nothing about her childhood - her absent father - her history with drugs - her history with a variety of psychiatrists and different therapies including shock therapy - Her memoir — which was adapted from one of her stage shows- gives us a panoramic view of what Carrie Fisher’s life was like : EXTREME HIGHS and EXTREME LOWS....NOT LIKE MOST CHILDREN’S growing years — -with Debbie Reynolds as her mother and growing up with ‘stars’ as family friends.
I laughed at how much I understood from Carries point of view - that when she watched “The Father’s Knows Best” show.....she thought THAT was what ALL NORMAL families were like ( since she soon figured out her life wasn’t normal) ....
It told me something is up with, because celebrity books are often rated high just due to them being written by a iconic personality, which Carrie Fisher no doubt was, and my second and more justified reason was that I had no particular relationship with Fisher and her cinematic work.As I said, Carrie Fisher as Princess Leia is iconic, part of the movie history.
It feels more like listening to a friend who wants to spend the evening talking serious and funny than it feels like reading a celebrity that wants to share their career and life.You learn great deal of what and who Carrie Fisher was, but at the same time, you don't really learn to know her at all.
Turning to the first of her short memoirs, I was faced with some of Carrie Fisher's most interesting sentiments and humorous anecdotes detailing a life about which I knew very little.
An interesting smattering of thoughts and memories, instilled with enough humour to leave the reader feeling this is an extended comedy dialogue, Fisher presents something to tide the reader over between larger and more substantial reading assignments.
Engaging and even a little provocative, Fisher serves her purpose by presenting this piece, the first in what became a series.
Later in life, whenever I've seen one of her books on the shelves, I'd think about possibly reading it, out of interest for what she might have to say regarding those iconic Star Wars movies.
Call it a passing fancy, one that I've passed up time and again for year upon year, right up until recently when I found the audiobook version of Wishful Drinking at the library.
I blame "Laugh In"-era Goldie Hawn for this.Negatives aside, Fisher's humor is one of the book's saving graces.
Fisher's taken her knocks and here they are all laid out for you to read.
WISHFUL DRINKING is a short, but interesting memoir surrounding Carrie Fisher's life growing up in a celebrity household, (parents Debbie Reynolds and Eddie Fisher) her addictions, electroshock therapy, bipolar disorder and after effects of playing Princess Leia in the epic STAR WARS saga.Written with sarcastic humor and wit, gotta give her credit for laying it all out there, and persevering to overcome her demons.Just ok for me.
I loved Carrie Fisher; she was an icon of my youth. She was also smart, funny, and courageous.Her death saddened me so much. She should have had years ahead of her. She (and we) were deprived of her wit and intelligence. Her witness to surviving mental illness and addiction.I read this book in honor of her and to feel her presence again. The book is as funny, poignant, and funny as you would expect. It read like lightening and was over too soon.Just like Carrie Fisher's life.
Hilarious!
Of course I know Carrie Fisher from her Star Wars fame and knew she had written some books.
But I had no clue how funny she was.
Her writing is so casual—especially listening to the audiobook which she narrates, it feels like a close friend telling you stories of her life—but she has a depth and sophistication which is unmatched by many celebrity memoirs.
I wish this had been ten times as long!
I could listen to her for hours and hours.
Definitely going to check out more of her books, especially on audio if she reads them.
Loved this.
The sad thing about this book is that my favorite part was the cover.
Fisher seems to have mostly transcribed her one-woman show, and the problem is, what works for a performance doesn't hold up very well as a book.
Everything's sort of glossed over with self-deprecating jokes, and there's not a real sense of narrative or much in the way of self-reflection.
I didn't really want a celebrity tell-all, but I would really be interested in what Fisher really thinks and feels about her struggles with addiction, mental illness, and the bizarreness of her fame.
Carrie was born a celebrity, being the child of actress/singer Debbie Reynolds and crooner Eddie Fisher.
Eventually, Eddie married a Chinese woman - Betty Lin - and after she died 'he started to date all of Chinatown.' Carrie notes that 'this was fitting because Eddie had gotten so many facelifts that he looked Asian himself.' LOLCarrie sang in her mother's nightclub act from the ages of 13 to 17 and - as it happens - also started doing drugs at 13.
Here are a few examples: Carrie's stepfather Harry Karl (Debbie's second husband) was not a handsome man, but was wealthy and well-groomed, said to be distinguished looking.

The writing also sounds like something meant to be read aloud, very conversational.She starts off with her incredibly wild childhood as the daughter of Debbie Reynolds and Eddie Fisher.
Though it’s heavy material, the book itself is never heavy; Carrie intersperses it all with great humor.Some memorable quotes I bookmarked:“My mother thought it would be a good idea for me to have a child with her last husband Richard, because it would have nice eyes.
But I was so far gone at the time I didn’t know what I was signing, or doing, so when they finally put the papers in front of me, I took the papers and signed with my left hand, ‘Shame.’ That’s how I signed in for the mental hospital.
I plowed through it in one evening, laughing out loud.Fisher has a knack for making the heartbreaking hilarious and there's probably more truth packed into these 176 pages than found in other "memoirs" twice this size (Jane Fonda's bloated tome comes to mind).
She talks honestly about her marriage to Paul Simon, her second husband who left her for a man, her father's womanizing (most notoriously leaving Debbie Reynolds for Elizabeth Taylor after her third husband, Mike Todd, was killed in a plane crash), and her electroconvulsive therapy, which she says has done her more good than a dozen shrinks and their pills.
Do you have a friend, who no matter how much you like her, you have to acknowledge is a horrible story teller? She tells them with too much back story, and after every overlong vignette concludes she pauses expectantly waiting for you to crack up at just how hysterical it was that Sarah would say that to Jean in line at the supermarket. Well, now you can have that experience in book form, written by someone who isn't even your friend.
“I didnt realize I actually had post-traumatic stress disorder at the time, but why would I think I had that? Anyway, how would I know which was post-traumatic stress, which is addiction, which is bipolar, which is Libra?”
Carrie Fishers unending wit and charm shine through this quick, fun read. I highly suggest reading this before watching her Wishful Drinking special as it's nearly word for word in most parts, with the book adding a few extra stories here and there. It's heartbreaking that she left us so soon but thank goodness she left behind some great books to keep us company.
This rating is all about how damn funny this book is, and how sad I am that Carrie Fisher is no longer with us. (Also because I'm pleased that one of my favourite songs of all time - Paul Simon's Graceland - is revealed to be about her. (Which was probably no revelation at all to most fans.))
God I miss Carrie Fisher
This is a short audiobook that my husband and I listened to in the course of one morning - it is basically a studio recording of a one-woman show that Carrie Fisher did for a while.
I do wish the audio engineer had her re-record a few of the parts where she is shouting, but I get it, she has a loud voice.
I didn't know all that much about Carrie Fisher but enjoyed this just the same, perhaps more with all the surprises I experienced in not knowing!
Listened to the audiobook. Very entertaining and funny. Did not know she was married to Paul Simon. When I have more time (or less books I want to read first) I will READ the actual book!
In Wishful Drinking, Star Wars icon Carrie Fisher has plenty of stories to tell about that and many other fascinating subjects including being raised by famous, scandal-plagued parents, her drug abuse and mental disorder, marriage to Paul Simon, her recent electroconvulsive therapy, and what it's like when a gay republican dies in your bed.Carrie Fisher is a very, very funny person, and I frequently laughed out loud while reading this book.
You know she has a lot more material when being in rehab with Ozzy Osborne only merits half a line, and her Star Wars experiences could likely have filled a whole book instead of just a short chapter.
Longer review to come ASAP.Some more thoughts on Wishful Drinking.I've read several of Carrie Fisher's novels (I recommend Postcards from the Edge) but her memoir is much more fun.
I think today they call it bipolar disorder - so you might say I swing both ways."At the end of the book, Carrie makes a plea for more tolerance regarding mental illness.
"At times, being bipolar can be an all-consuming challenge, requiring a lot of stamina and even more courage, so if you're living with this illness and functioning at all, it's something to be proud of, not ashamed of."This is a quick read and I finished the book wishing I could be her friend.
E a come con tutto quello spirito, quella intelligenza, quella volontà, alla fine non ce l'abbia fatta a sopravvivere.
Il papà (Eddie, per il quale in tutto il libro dispensa un benevolo disinteresse del tutto immeritato, vista la inesistente caratura umana del soggetto) lascia mammà (Debbie Reynolds, una delle più durature e famose fidanzate d'America) per la sua migliore amica, che diventa l'Altra (Liz Taylor, una "altra" contro la quale solo Marylin avrebbe potuto giocare ad armi pari).
Questa la premessa, ma visto il tono il carattere, l'epoca, il contesto e tutto il fardello di Hollywood Babilonia tutto quel che ne consegue sembra quasi naturale.
It's the incomparable Carrie Fisher...need I type more? She automatically gets a five from me. There will NEVER be another lady like her—not now, not ever—as Carrie's emotional fearlessness and infectious wit was/is one-of-a-kind priceless. From my view, she was so much more than Princess Leia; an intelligent thinker (and hilarious writer) who came equipped with soaring feelings and a refreshing take-no-prisoners attitude about life. Great book, great gal. Up next: Shockaholic. Yeah; I'm on a Carrie kick.
I love Carrie's stories.
They are funny and interesting.
She has a way of bringing out poignant moments amid some absurd situation.
She did a lot of living.
There is something interesting about seeing what life is like for people who grow up with famous parents.
The few repeated stories always come with a new twist and insight.
She seems to own her choices and she finds the funny in them.
Celebrity opens doors for you in life; I didn't know she married Paul Simon - where have I been.
Thanks for sharing Carrie!
Picked this up on a whim at the used bookstore.
Glad I did it was a quick, highly entertaining read.
It's based on the show Carrie Fisher was doing at the time and reads like that.
It definitely seems a bit scattered at times but given the subject matter it's to be expected.
I really enjoyed Carrie's perspective on addiction and mental illness.
Plus, her perspective on celebrity was great.
Check out this quote..."Anyway, at a certain point in my early twenties, my mother started to become worried about my obviously ever-increasing drug ingestion.
She called Cary Grant."I'm a big fan of Carrie's writing and this is no exception.
And what she does tell is pretty cut and dry with no euphemisms (for example Fischer describes that when Elizabeth Taylor's husband died in a tragic accident, her father "consoled her with his penis").It's a very short read and that might be my biggest complaint.
"You wouldn't believe what I'm NOT telling you," Fischer teases in her book.
And eventually he got so annoyed with Mark Hamill asking him all these questions, Alec gave him 20 pounds to go away.
When on NPR's Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me!, Peter Sagal asked her when she was going to come out with the full uncut biography.
I only hope that she does eventually write a full biography because that would be a fantastic read.
She states how she can't remember much of her life up until the writing of Wishful Drinking, and also tries to spin bipolar disorder into something normal, light and humorous.Carrie Fisher sprinkles random anecdotes about her life throughout Wishful Drinking, all of which aren't funny at all.
I understand she is trying to maintain a positive outlook on her alcoholic, drug-ridden life, but her writing isn't humbling at all; just boastful.
Princess Leia is finally going to come forward and share with the world how she overcame her drug and alcohol problems because she's finally grown up and learned something!" Boy was I wrong!
I recommend Wishful Drinking only to the faithful fans of Carrie Fisher.
A friend let me know about this wonderful audiobook,and I'm so glad she did.
Loved listening to Carrie's voice for three hours straight.
And despite talking about very diffucult things,did it with humor.
She talked about her drug use and mental illness,hard stuff.
I'm happy I listened to this.
For me,she'll always be princess Leia,and then later general Organa,and that's okay.
I know there were so much more to her,but her role as Leia meant the world to me and had a huge impact on me.
And about Leia.
Fisher did great job with talking about mental illness,ending the silence surrounding it.
