https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/192214.Vector_Prime
And on a far away scientific station on Belkadan, Danni Quee receives the first hint of a menace about to invade the galaxy.NOTE: Based on audiobook and novel.The year is 1999.
Many could criticize Han for his actions, but given what happens in the course of the novel (no spoilers, although it has been 11+ years so you probably know already), I thought it was believable.
I even liked how Salvatore brought Jacen out of the "goofy, animal dork" that the Young Jedi Knight novels painted him as.But that doesn't mean the characters were perfect.
And since I got "Vector Prime" for free during my local Borders' death throes sale (yet, oddly, I still want my money back...), it was easier to read this book than buy something new.As I've mentioned elsewhere, the Yuuzhan Vong were a bad, BAD idea.
Then Anakin's death may be part of the reason his older brother becomes a Sith Lord in the Legacy of the force series of books...and so on and so forth.And the readers, like Han Solo, are supposed to hate the Vong for their evil, destructive ways because they killed Chewbacca.
The book itself was quite okay, but unfortunately it did nothing to recover my lost motivation.Disney, what have you done?
I made a deal with my husband, who has read and loved MANY a Star Wars book, that if I read Vector Prime that he would read The Hunger Games.
So, game on!With that said, I was intrigued because I thoroughly enjoyed the Star Wars series and Vector Prime takes place after the films end and the main characters are married and have kids.
I was surprised at how much I enjoyed this book but I also love the characters anyway.
(view spoiler)[I will add, damn you Salvatore for killing off one of my favorite characters!
Media tie-ins are always going to be a mixed bag.Very few in the Star Wars series really rose above average, and they quickly became a matter of diminishing returns for the time and money invested.Vector Prime is the point where it just dove off a cliff for me.Salvatore is a capable writer, and though I don't follow his other work, people do seem to look favorably on it.I think the problem here lies with the editors and the course they chose for the overall ongoing storyline of the series.
R.A. Salvatore, best known for his work in the fantasy genre and the popular “Dungeons & Dragons RPG, joined the Star Wars Expanded Universe team in 1999 with his novel “Vector Prime”, which set the tone and direction for an entirely new and different series within the SWEU called the New Jedi Order.Darker, more violent, and more mature, “Vector Prime” was a much-needed shot in the arm for a franchise gradually going stale.
Two years prior to Salvatore’s novel, Timothy Zahn’s “Hand of Thrawn” series re-invigorated the SWEU and opened the door for a variety of new approaches by a variety of new writers.The universe that Lucas envisioned was a fun, vibrant space opera.
As a "Star Wars" book, this is clearly meant to be the literary equivalent of a "summer blockbuster" which is not a bad thing by any means (I equate it to a lot of the other "fun" read books like the Dresden Files Series and the Harry Potter series).
Best of all, it introduces an original "villian" that is as good as any that has ever been created in the Star Wars universe (and that is saying a lot).
Now this is coming from someone who hasn't read a lot of Star Wars novels, but given the quality of this book, I feel confident that this is an accurate statement.
So, I was in a bookstore looking for something to read on vacation and I saw a Star Wars book called Exile and thought, "well, golly!
I haven't read one of those in over ten years - this will be fun!" Well, that book was fourth in a series - and there was a whole other series that came before.
This book is the first in that series, the New Jedi Order.
I doubt I'll review the others in this series, so I'll say this: if you like Star Wars, you'll like these books.
Killed. Chewbacca. I am not okay with this. Is that a shallow reason to give the book a single star? Perhaps, but it was the tipping point for me. With full understanding that the characters we love cannot live forever in an extended universe, the method of Chewie's demise remains a sore point for me; not merely the fact that it happened.
Just so you'll know where I'm coming from, I admit to a certain bias for RA Salvatore.
Salvatore remains true to his strengths, especially when it comes to action sequences.
The characters are in-line with the movies and the story fits in well with the extensive background already created with all of the other SW novels.
Salvatore is not afraid to test the boundaries of the SW conventions either, especially when it comes to the safety of the major characters.
Other authors have let theselves be managed by the characters but Salvatore makes it clear that the story is primary.
The book was alright until a beloved Star Wars character was killed off.
Its not so much that the character was killed off that bothers me it is the way.
The character could have had a better send off.
This for me ruined the book and it was hard to finish after.
I haven't read a Star Wars book since reading this book when it first came out in hardcover.UPDATE 1/9/16 I just saw episode VII...
I've done some digging and can't find a book right before Episode VII chronologically that would explain these 2 characters existing in episode VII....
Engrossing novel with new aspects not included in the canon Star Wars Series.
For fans of the original Star Wars films this is a good solid story with adventure and excitement galore.
Set 25 years after the events of the original A New Hope film, the galaxy comes under threat from an invading force of frightening warriors.
Han's wife Leia, their jedi-trained kids Jacen, Jaina and Anakin (it's been 25 years after all).
The new threat to the galaxy, the extra-galactic Yuuzhan Vong, are scary, evil and quite formiddable.
Many events of the last 25 years are referred to and many characters are handled comfortably that my be entirely new to you but it's still good Star Wars-y fun :)
I do not like the NJO books at all.
Firstly, (view spoiler)[the major character death was pretty damn pointless.
I understand the giving up a life for another life, (hide spoiler)] but this didn't feel like that.
I like fighting against a creepy threat; don't get me wrong.
I'm saying that the characters, who in every other situation offer the hand of friendship first, don't bother to, and (hide spoiler)] everyone thinks it's perfectly okay, because they're upset.
I am a member of the group of people that thinks this series of books should be decanonized for these and various other reasons.
My fascination for Star Wars stretched so far even beyond the galaxy far, far away brought me to this book.
I trudged through its pages, getting to know obscure words that filled every page of this book.
However, I'm quite disappointed with the book, after my laborious effort, I thought the book just getting more and more Trekkie.
But aside all of that I still enjoyed reading it (what else would keeping me flipping through 360pages full of wicked words of sci-fi otherwise?).
But I just think Star Wars does better in graphic novels and movies compared to sci-fi novels to me.
I remember when Vector Prime first came out some ten years ago, and all of the talk was about Chewbacca's death.
Some fans felt betrayed, while others liked the vulnerability of the main characters.
I thought Salvatore (the author) did a fantastic job in making Chewie's death both heroic and tragic, and liked the idea that "even the good guys could die" in this burgeoning series.I also enjoyed the action scenes and in particular, the fight between Mara Jade and Yomin Carr, a Yuuzhan Vong warrior.
He used shield ships (SW regulars will know what they are) to heat a ice-crusted water planet, supposedly increasing evaporation so much that the water cools and freezes in HOURS!The galactic map is nice, but he talks about the "edge" and the entry point of the galaxy as if it has a wall around it, instead of stars and matter--for that matter--petering off to nothingness.The cover art was repulsive.
Yeah, I know the head bad guy was ugly, but I wouldn't buy a book with art like that on it.
(No, I didn't buy this copy; it was borrowed and will be returned.
Vector Prime was a great read.
I am not the biggest fan of R.A. Salvatore, but in this book, I found that his writing style is not quite the same as his other books.
He does some things that are unexpected, but not always unwelcome.
However, after a while, you start to get the feel for what the characters are going to do just based on the way that Salvatore writes them.There are some interesting insights into the various characters in this book, particularly Han and Anakin.
The story sets up The New Jedi Order series well, and I am anxious to keep reading.
I loved RA Salvatore's Dark Elf series and I think he's a good fantasy writer, but this book didn't resonate well with me. I don't think he had a good grasp of the characters - they all seemed a little off throughout the novel. The writing felt very forced, especially during the emotional parts, which lacked subtlety and nuance. Overall, this was a disappointing and depressing novel that did not make me want to read more of the New Jedi Order series.
If you're a Star Wars fan like I am, then this book is a definite must-read for you! There were times that I find the story slow and/or dragging but it was still a great read.It was well-written and was as detailed as can be. I didn't actually know about the series until a very good friend (who is also a Star Wars geek) recommended it to me.In conclusion, I loved it and I will definitely continue reading the series :)
Vector Prime is an interesting start to The New Jedi Order series. It was intriguing to see the Jedi battling a force insensitive enemy in the Yuuzhan Vong. It certainly promises to be something different.
I read the vast majority of the books in the NJO series. I greatly enjoyed many of them.But this one sucked. I can't tell you why, as it has been years, but of all the books in the series, this one stuck out to me as actually being bad.
This is really a fine tale. Not too surprised that Salvatore could pull it off but then again, he did it within the Star Wars universe. Heart-pumping action and a horrific new villain. I liked this enough to buy the next two books in this series.
Not Darth Vader) Then they drop a moon on Chewbacca.
At one time you have-Anakin- Bad guys- Research Scientist/minor jedi- Kyp (another jedi)- Mara/Luke- Han/Leia- Jacen/Jaina (Han and leia's twins)You tend to get whiplash from all the different stories going on at once.
They spend 100 pages building up this evil sabotage guy, Mara kills him in 2 pages.
They spend another 50 pages dealing with this giant evil tentacle monster that telepathically controls the bad guys?
The bad guys are interesting enough that i'll eventually read the 2nd one.
Not well paced. The author prefers to tell rather than show. I felt like he caught the character of Han Solo best and the next generation of Solos are developing interestingly but it took him a long time to get the story going.
It felt so good to be reunited with old characters; none of the books I've read before have contained the trio from the Original Trilogy so it was nice to see them again; and to know I was about to go on yet another adventure with them.
Everything held together quite nicely – I don't think I would've enjoyed it if it weren't for the different main plot locations.But I'm constantly in awe about these books; because while I do feel like the characters from the films (such as Luke, Leia, Han, etc) are all quite nicely in-character (!) written, I have a hard time getting attached to the original ones.
So...I guess I'm going to start recollecting the series, this time in e-book format.
I remember while I had an easy time getting into Vector Prime the first time around, the second book was more difficult.
And I do recall, after a while, the whole long invasion starts to blend together, battles blending, with only a few important points in time being rememberable.
Now that I know the path already, and have a better understanding of the alien characters involved.
The first book of this series, in general, was pretty memorable -- toward the middle, it all kinda gets muddled.
I think it might have been a combination of these things, and the sheer number of books in the series.
I had yet to discover used book stores, and these things were (and still are) quite pricy for books that take a day or so to read each.
I'd like to think I've become wiser over the years when it comes to buying books.
No money worries and no searching!" I proceeded to not read the Dune series for about three or four years after that.
Now I still buy used books, but only purchase the first of a series as a test-run, so to speak.
I have read and own many star wars novel and comics and this is a general review for the whole NJO series but it has to be the best series for me personaly, it brings somethng new to the SW universe, the legacy of the force series and the Fate of the jedi seem to be the same Star Wars idea just rewritten.Legacy of the Force is a new dark lord rising to power to bring balance to the galaxy and so on and so on still good but sort of feels like I've been here before?Fate of the Jedi again with luke being exiled (ben kenobi) and the planet of sith forgotten by the universe just has a feel of been here before, again i like them and have and will continue to read them, however the NJO series was excellent introducing a whole new species of being from a distant galaxy, excellent, organic ships and weapons , and they supposedly have no connection to the force as we know it, OMG it give me a sense and a feel that luke and the gang where in major trouble and we behind at every step with the Yuzhan Vong.
Where to start.First off this is a series i have wanted to read for years.I loved every word of ever
