https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/527823.The_Contortionist_s_Handbook
It's a good thing I didn't know about Palahniuk's praise of this neat little story before I started reading it, or it may have passed (gotten shoved) under my radar.
So the story rolls on.One of the coolest things about this book is it appeals to that side that I believe most of us have, the "disappear and start over" or "rob a rich badguy at gunpoint and move to Mexico" or "travel all over the world with a ninja sword hacking up all the assassins who I think killed my baby" fantasy.
A girl can read books like this and dream though, right?
Those of you who enjoy stylish writing that's full of heart, you should adore this little book.There is little to no action inside The Contortionist's Handbook.
Witnessing Danny/Johnny outsmart his "opponent" is big fun and never boring.
There's no filler, no word out of place, no flowery fuckery, only tight writing you can bounce a quarter off.The love story in this book is handled well.
The Contortionist's Handbook has stayed with me since I read it over a decade ago, and more than withstood a reread.
In fact, I would go as far as saying I enjoyed my reread more than my original experience, and I loved this book after that first pass.
He follows a pattern over the years where he suffers from his migraines until he eventually takes too much medication and is hospitalized, often as a suicide risk.Vincent has made a life of fooling those charged with evaluating the psychological states of patients hospitalized for drug overdoses, and this time he plays a game of cat and mouse with quite a bit more than usual riding on the outcome.
If you were to explain the plot of this book to me a month or two ago I would probably have passed.
The plot, however, takes a back seat to the outstanding characterization Clevenger shows in this novel.
I don’t know when, where or why I picked this one up, but I have had it sitting around for a long time. I didn’t read the synopsis or any reviews either. I just picked it up one day and started reading.Glad I did.It was surprisingly intelligent. Especially for a debut novel.The writing was clean and had some bite to it here and there.The characterization is what made it though. Very well done.A solid 4+ Stars.
He is of superior intellect, beating the legal and healthcare systems at every encounter.
He suffers from debilitating migraines and is a substance abuse.As a physician, I was irritated by the author's descriptions of the professionals that he encountered in the mental health profession.
Truthfully, an uninsured patient in the US mental health pipeline is unlikely to get ten minutes from a psychiatrist, certainly not an in-depth evaluation as depicted in the book.
The author had obviously researched migraines and mental health, but there were many holes remaining in the story line.
Clevenger almost wound up as one of those guys I'd wish people would stop prattling on and on about."So brilliant.""Such a genius."And I was so incredibly sick of hearing it."Dermaphoria" was what I ended up cutting me teeth on regarding his work, and I must admit, I found myself struggling through it and wondering what all the fuss was about.That didn't stop me from picking up TCH when I finally found a copy for under $40, or more specifically, when MacAdam/Cage finally pulled their heads out of their asses and decided to give the book another print run.
Maybe even ten years," and I'm inclined to agree.Clevenger spins a web of lies and identity crisis so complex, it's a wonder that the reader doesn't get lost in the details of how to fake a birth certificate or SR-22, but the author never shakes you...not unless he wants to.
NOME:Johnny (alias Chris,Martin,Paul,Eric,Danny )SEGNI PARTICOLARI:6 dita nella mano sinistraPROFESSIONE:"contorsionista" (o almeno è quella che piu' assomiglia alla sua straordinaria abilita') Johnny ogni tot di mesi soffre di emicranie lancinanti,e ogni volta,per cercare di alleviare quel dolore atroce,che gli infuria nella corteccia cerebrale come una sega,finisce per ingurgitare un bel po' di antidolorifici(e magari pure bourbon)e così...sempre la stessa storia: Overdose--->ricovero in ospedale--> risveglio da mani guantate ---> valutazione psichiatrica.
Per non rischiare di venire rinchiuso in qualche istituto d'igiene mentale,a causa di tutte queste sospette , frequenti overdose,Johnny si costruisce ,ogni volta,una nuova identità ,curando ogni minimo dettaglio.
The narrative jumps all over the place – from the present where a mental health specialist is assessing John as a suicide risk (he OD’d on pills to combat a recurring migraine), to various instances in his past with his abusive and alcoholic father, to his time in a juvenile delinquency hall, to his life on his own faking his identity.
The dialogue and scenes between the mental health specialist and John in the present day are amazing, as the first person narrative describes how and why John answers certain questions the way he does – to trick the assessor into believing he’s not a risk (Clevenger specifies which questions are asked and why certain answers are suspicious and certain ones are not; very well-researched).
I took up this book because it was supposed to be a good example of neo-noir genre, which I am currently interested in.
And furthermore I read so many five-star reviews on it and even Palahniuk's praise.
I kept reading till the end out of the respect of an author's work and in hope that the ending would finally bring some unexpected twist or juice.
The character still felt flat and ordinary, and I couldn't begin to care about him and his destiny.
In short, personally for me it was a disappointing first meeting with neo-noir.
This book is the equivalent of that thousand-yard stare you get when you stay up until seven in the morning and are sitting outside somewhere with a headache and three cigarettes left.
Each character and event in his life is cataloged and stared down with the same steely regard he uses to forge birth certs and steal social security numbers.
The games he plays draw you in, and the book's narrative hook (events are relayed as the main character tries to manipulate a psychiatrist into letting him out of a hospital) makes things almost unbearably tense.
In fact, this book is essentially a character study of an individual who is simply unable to fit in with society, who has a deep mistrust for institutions which a privileged person considers "helpful" and who is constantly bobbing and weaving in an attempt to avoid these institutions.The reality is, this book only falters when the focus shifts from our main character, when suddenly this secondary plot, and the trials and tribulations of a woman who the reader never really meets nor cares about become part of the resolution.
Suddenly, we are supposed to care about her motivations, and surprisingly, there is a very anti-climactic non-resolution to our main character's problems.
This was a quick read on an airplane ride.
The drinking and drug abuse described would probably render the protagonist more like the homeless kid whose identity he buys (Stove) than the superhuman flawed genius that narrates the story.
Some beautiful writing I particularly liked the sex scene around p100 specially since I had just read some award winning bad sex scenes (eg "soft as a coil of excrement" Norman Mailer's description of a penis!)So I thought "felt the whisper of God deep within my bones" was inspired.The dissertation about fighting v talking about ass-kicking (p126) rang true.
This book invaded my dreams & I noticed my body was veeeeery uneasy every time I sat down to read it, which I both dig and admire.
It's altogether different, but one can't help but wonder if John Dolan Vincent and Holden Caulfield aren't in fact attached in some Siamese way, limbs interwined and shared through some hole punched in space and time, their stumbling footsteps echoing one another's as they attempt to grasp hold of something real, beautiful, and true in a world that doesn't often seem to feature any of those attributes on a regular basis.Chuck Palahniuk, author of 'Fight Club' and 'Choke", is quotes as saying, 'I swear to God that this is the best book I have read in easily five years.
To avoid such a fate, he must constantly assume new identities, so there is no ability to connect his hospital records.Like Palahniuk, the author Craig Clevenger does an amazing job of detailing a world most of us don't think much about; in this case, identification forgery.
The rhythm was stacatto, the multiple love interests were a tad incredible, and my interest in the main character waxed after a while.Again, it's a fun read...but it might be time to dial down the adulation just a tad.(P.S. If you're looking for a great novel featuring another polydactyl, check out "Twelve Fingers" by Jo Soares.
Goodreads tells me that I've read 662 books so far. And it's safe to say that I haven't read anything like this one ever in my life. :') Talk about having your brain blown to bits because so much awesomeness.
Craig Clevenger’s The Contortionist’s Handbook is a lean read with infectious language, but it feels like most of the tension also got cut.The novel is told from the perspective of John Dolan Vincent, a brilliant six-fingered forger who has spent his life moving between identities.
Problem is, John Vincent is a little too good at what he does, so the reader never feels like he’s in any real danger.
The unresolved nature at the end of the novel seems like a mistake, too, but considering the no real danger vibe to begin with, it’s not all that surprising.
I was a bit hesitant to read this book when I heard that  Chuck Palahniuk had praised it rather readily.
My own curiosity, and my friend Sasha's high rating, eventually combined to finally get me to give it a read.The bulk of the book consists of John Vincent's memories and inner musings as he tries to conspire to stay out of a mental institution after overdosing on drugs.
The problem is that all of the above are inherently true and the evaluating psychiatrist may very well be on to him.The book is very aptly titled, the ins and outs of John Vincent's life and thought process curling in on itself as the pieces slowly begin to fall into place.
You don't really know what to expect when you see "A Contortionists Handbook" followed by a sepia-toned picture of a man bending his legs at the knees at right angles from the rest of his body, followed by a hearty endorsement from none other than Chuck Palahniuk, all on the front cover.
Clevenger, a Southern California dude through and through, inserts many Los Angeles-centric locations throughout his narrative that add realism, particularly if the reader is from LA (although he doesn't have to be to enjoy this book).
Overall, I was quite impressed with "The Contortionist's Handbook", and look forward to reading more from Clevenger.
John Vincent isn't a contortionist in a traditional i.e. jacket photo way, but he does contort himself inside different identities every 6 months or so.
This book is really more of a identity thief/forger handbook and the author goes into frightening amount of detail on the subject.
It's the sort of book I wasn't sure I liked very much until the very end and then it became apparent that this story is genuinely different and the character is thoroughly original, things I highly value in fiction.
Craig Clevenger could have let the reader in a little sooner. You know, trusted us just a little bit more. And I'm not going to spoil it for anybody, but a little more meat at the end as well would have helped - but hell man, The Contortionist's Handbook absolutely kills. A minute into it I was caught up and I never let go. A really good friend told me to read this book, he even loaned me his signed copy. He said, "read this, you'll love it." He was right.
I haven't written a review of this book yet. I was too bewildered and amazed to do more than stammer, my god, you have to read this book! I'm pretty good with words, but to review The Contortionist's Handbook is like trying to explain unconsciousness to someone who's never blacked out. …I'll try later.
El que se ponga a leer esto porque leyó las alabanzas que le hizo Palahniuk, sepa esto: este libro no tiene un pito en común con nada de Palahniuk.
Como tiene unas migrañas fortísimas cata tanto, suele pasarse de mambo con los calmantes, y para evitar que lo internen por suicida, va cambiando de identidad.
Hasta que se le complica todo.El libro es entretenido, aunque de a ratos medio se pierde; el autor da vueltas sobre el tema de las migrañas, para llegar a ninguna conclusión (y eso que desde el vamos es evidente que son psicosomáticas).
La historia de amor no es empalagosa, pero por la relevancia que tiene me hubiera gustado más saber sobre ella.
I liked this a bunch. Very Palahniuk-esque, without the feeling that the author loathes me.
This is when things get interesting, because he’s a ‘different person’ each time he interviews with a psychiatric employee of the State.I won’t go into any more than that, but the overall intrigue of the book is definitely how clever the main character and his methods are.
The character is definitely likable, though his motives can be, at times, a little difficult to define or point out.I don’t know if it’s the actual graphic layout of the physical book, but something about the publishing quality seems a little… flimsy.
John is a man who suffers from such severe headaches that he usually ends up overdosing on painkillers and various prescription pills in an effort to stop the torture.
When this happens, nine times out of ten, he gets picked up by paramedics and brought to the hospital in an effort to save his life.
However, I guess that's not really what the book is about as Clevenger seems to spend more time with his relationship with his father and the women in his life.
The book keeps going on about how this guy creates false identities, and while it may be technically accurate, while the author may have read a ton of Wikipedia articles about how to make birth certificates, it is by no means interesting writing.
I can read non-fiction books more entertaining than this!You know, for me reading books is more about connecting with a character, going on a fictional journey with them, and less about pointless descriptive shit like this:Six months of hope cost me three thousand dollars.
Stop describing pointless things like this to me!
Think I can safely say it’s the worst book I’ve read all year.
I’ve read some stinkers this year, but nothing like this.
from the descriptions of his gruesome OD's to his affair with the love of his life, his display of words and detailed descriptions were inventive and compelling, metaphorically, which actually came off rather poetic at many moments.
in fact, i'm very much looking forward to a second read, particularly for those very details and favored moments, but that won't be for a long while.
:)around the time when he revealed his childhood past as a delinquent (mid-book), i grew very uninterested.
but the "suspense" immediately revived itself as the last quarter of the book came to be.
John's a master forger who can perfectly fake just about anything, which comes in handy for his other past time of being a drug addict (thinly veiled under the guise of someone who experiences 'godsplitting' headaches and then self-medicates to the point of regular overdose).
Due to his appreciation for narcotics, he finds himself in and out of hospitals and uses his talented skills to knock up a brand new identity for himself each time to prevent the men in white coats trying to lock him up.It's enthralling and a perfect piece of escapism, as you wonder if the authorities will ever catch up with John (or whatever his name is that week).
The Contortionist's Handbook is something of a neo-noir thriller that tells the story of Daniel Fletcher/Christoher Thorne/Eric Bishop, but really John Vincent, a master forger who suffers from strong migraines that get him taken to the hospital every few months.
I was enjoying this a lot more in the beginning when I thought the story would turn out to be a cat-and-mouse game between Vincent and a psychiatrist who has to decide whether Vincent is suicidal and needs to be taken in or if he just accidentally overdosed in order stop the pain.
