https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13585624-the-melted-coins
I didn't really enjoy this one as much as I normally enjoy the Hardy Boys.
This was an okay book. Pros: Good style of writing, good illustrations, interesting story Cons: Ridaus don't seem to fit in the story, too much "tribal worshipping" too much of the story focussed on it, Hardy's don't really do much thinking, they only hope for luck. Overall it's a good story and I recommend it, but I wouldn't like to read it again. 3 stars.
The Hardy boys will have to help end a feud going on in a town with residents that are blaming neighboring Indians without getting any real evidence. At the same time there is a scam going around that the Hardy's have to solve. You will have to read this book to see how it all goes down!I thought this was a good book to read. I liked how the story kept going in different directions to keep readers guessing about what the final outcome would be.
I think this was one of my favorite Hardy Boy books. It's the first time we've read one of the original books (all of the original HB books were re-written in the fifties and sixties), this one was written in 1944.
Excellent series for young readers - highly recommended. I read these books when I was 10 - 15 years of age.
What's not to like about this series?
"I'll tattoo you if it's the last thing I do!..." ...Joe tried to shout, but the pirate's heavy hand was across his mouth, stifling any outcry...In a few minutes he was bound, gagged, and thrust onto a table.
"Get the needle, Lopez!" ordered Blackbeard.
Lopez stood by, handed Blackbeard a long, sharp needle in a holder.
Joe felt a stab of pain as the tattoo artist crouched over him and the needle pricked the skin on his chest.
Then comes the dye." The sharp needle stabbed Joe's skin once more...."The mark will stay with you for life," cried the pirate.
XD - There was an introduction of the Hardy boy's "spinster" aunt.
She's introduced, the boys ask her to make them a sandwich...
- The introduction of their friend Chet, the "fat" character whose only characteristic is to be fat.
White guy: *after being accused of thievery and should be arrested* Can I stay here at my house?Officer: Okay.(literally a few pages later)Native American: Can my people have their stolen items back?Officer: lol, no."Not only was he robbed, but he was BEATEN SEVERELY."The Hardy boys gasped.
"What was robbed?"Me: You're more worried about stolen property than asking if your friend is okay?
This review is for the original version! (I don’t know if there’s a different one but my cover has the boys in a hole on it) The boys rely on luck far too much in this book and happen to stumble on clues and answers rather than find them by skill. There’s too much wandering around looking for coins for me to call this book a good one. I read this book aloud to kids, however, and we still had a blast. It was very fun creating an extremely strong accent for Mr. Spanish.
The Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew are the first series that I remember reading. I was still in elementary school, but I remember thinking I was reading more grown up books because these were long (more than 20 pages, lol) and there was more than one book you could read with the same main characters! The innocence of these mysteries and recalling my own innocence just makes me happy. All parents should give their kids Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew when they're young - only good things can come of it.
While trying to help their friend Chet get his money back from a summer school swindling, Frank and Joe find a connection between their investigation and problems arising at Zoar College! Dixon is sure to please young readers with this entry!
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
Uhhhh... not a very good Hardy Boys story. The plot is pretty bad. Doesn't actually really make sense. Also this cover looks so damn goofy it's hard not to laugh at it.
The classic boy detectives by Frank Dixon--I read ALL of them in my younger years, one I ran out of Nancy Drew books. The Hardy Boys are brother amateur detectives, aspiring to follow in their famous father's footsteps.The two boys live in the fictional city of Bayport (on Barmet Bay) with their famous father, Fenton Hardy, a private detective formerly with the New York Police Department, their mother Laura Hardy (erroneously called Mildred in The Flying Express), and their Aunt Gertrude, a character often used for comic relief.
.Really enjoyed this teenage mystery, lead by Frank and Joe.Would recommend!.Frank and Joe Hardy and their chums never fail to provide an entertaining and mysterious escapade. These teenagers are very intelligent, resourceful, and mature for their ages.My grandsons and I enjoyed sharing them together and would recommend them to others. This was a very good read.Each book is a clean read and can stand on its own.
I first read this book 25-30 years ago. Just found it again after moving house and thought I'd read it. I used to love all the Hardy Boys books. This might have been exciting when I was younger but it is really a bit far fetched and unbelievable. A quick easy read though. I feel like I should re-read books from my childhood more often. Hopefully I'll like some of the others a bit more.
One of the more blatantly racist and offensive Hardy Boys novels. The only thing more numerous than the fat jokes (poor Chet) are the politically incorrect references to Native Americans. At one point, a Native American woman even refers to herself as a "redskin." WOW. Because it wasn't already obvious enough that this novel was written by a white dude.
This Hardy Boys wasn't a very intriguing one. It was okay...not what the hardy boys could be.
In which a minority gets the best treatment in any Hardy Boys book so far, rich kids are sympathetic villains, and 11th-hour Germans materialize from the mist.
I think the Hardy Boy books helped me with learning deductive and inductive skills. I had to work through logic. Who knew? I enjoyed all these books.
I read the Hardy Boys books (and Nancy Drew) when I was a child. The stories are old fashioned, but that's why I like them so much.
Wow! This mystery made no sense - stealing valuable coins to produce basic currency? They'd be losing money! Crazy!
loved it!
My book has the same cover as shown in this listing but was published in 1970.
read when I was 10 through 13
Fun, quick read. I was hoping to introduce these books to my 11 year old. He's enjoyed it, and while I read Nancy Drew, it's been fun to read this Hardy Boy's book.
awesome! It just sucks you in.
Dixon, Franklin W.
its great
Mystery involving Frank, Joe, and thier friend Chet Morton
