https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/662942.Etruscan_Places
Non so come altro definire questo libro, se non una idea di poesia che ha finito per rimanere solo prosa.
Premetto che non conosco Lawrence, questo é il mio primo approccio a lui in assoluto, perciò potrebbe trattarsi del suo stile che semplicemente non mi piace.
Comunque in questo libro non trovo un capo e una coda, non riesco a collocarlo.
Sono come una manciata di pagine di un diario personale,infarcite di qualsiasi cosa, che sono state pubblicate perché sono di D.
H. Lawrence e non di un cristiano qualsiasi - come celebra il sottottitolo.
Very interesting read while I was visiting many of the places Lawrence wrote about. Many things have changed since he was there but many are, surprisingly, still the same. His history might have been inaccurate but his passion for his subject was evident.
They were like children but they had the force, the power and the sensual knowledge of true adults.' As much as this book can be described as a travel book, particularly for historians with an interest in Etruscan culture, it is also a fabulous window into the past perhaps not documented so vividly or fondly elsewhere, and also a work in philosophy which is of particular interest to me, and why I shall be returning to this book for further insights and comparisons.
This book was boring and forever taking and I hated it.
Good, but not fiction. A visit to Etruscan sites in Italy in the 1930s.
Meh. I was interested in a travel narrative on the Etruscans, as I've hoped to use some time abroad to learn more about them, but what I got instead was a whiny "hipster-before-the-hipsters" tour of various sites in Italy. You will find in these pages more complaints about modernity and soliloquies boosting the author's particular view of the Etruscans supposed shortcomings ("they weren't overindulgent! They just learned how to live the good life!") than you will actual facts about Etruscan art or the sites left over from that period. A few interesting tidbits here and there, but not much.
Read parallel with Mary Beards S P Q R which obviously has more scope but what a good writer DH Laurence was.
Lawrence's approach to the Etruscans was highly personal and unscientific, yet his book,  Etruscan Places,   has shaped modern readers' ideas of this vanished people more than any other text.Traveling on foot and by mule cart, Lawrence explored Tuscia-a wild, wooded area between Rome and Tuscany, where the center of Etruscan culture was located.
The mystery Lawrence relished may best be found off the tourist track-in the rock tombs carved along the ravines at Cerveteri and neighboring areas.To get a sense of what these sites were like in Lawrence's time, while doing research for my novel.
What struck me most about DH Lawrence's travelogue through Italy?
But most certainly not the Etruscans themselves.Indeed, just as history has provided us very little information about their civilization, in this text they stay distant, even as Lawrence praises their assumed virtues.
The tombs become a cavalcade of itemized art descriptions, a succession of rising and descending.
While Lawrence is willing to make much of what these people may have been, we still have no better understanding.
The description of the art's simplicity and complexity makes me want to do nothing more than see it.
He also cleared up a question I had about classical imagery.
I wondered about the origin of these creatures that I had always thought of as Christian.
According to Lawrence, they go back to the Etruscans.
Since Fiesole was originally an Etruscan city, it makes sense to me now.At the same time, his judgments are questionable.
"To put it roughly in a sentence, Lawrence believed that the Etruscans of about 700-300 B.C. had lived largely in the way he wished to live and thought that we should all live." - Richard Aldington
It was interesting to read Lawrence's impressions of Italy in the 1920s - to be honest I enjoyed these more than his conjecture about the Etruscans and their world - a world that is still open to much debate almost 100 years later.
Some of the passages made for uncomfortable reading, due to Lawrence's apparent feelings of superiority over the local people, but having read other travelogues of the time these sorts of observations weren't uncommon.
I'd be interested to know what sort of state these tombs are in now, and whether they are open to the public, or considered too precious to have a stream of people tramping through.
Excellent gentle introduction to the history of the Etruscans as a travel book.
Lawrence had just returned from Mexico and here visits some of the main Etruscan sites in western Tuscany and Lazio.
I bought by chance battered Penguin edition just before my trip to Tuscany and made Volterra a particular destination as a result.
( It has a great museum with the most fantastic ancient statue I've ever seen - so modern in appearance), anyway I digress.
Lawrence has a chatty style.
Of course he is travelling in the early part of the 20th c, so places were more inaccessible and probably more intact.
There's nothing like having this book with you while visiting Etruscan places in Tuscany. I was reading about Vulci while sipping wine in Montemerano, right after visiting Vulci. (I wish I could add some photos to GoodReads). I was driving a nice car but DH Lawrence had to travel to these, then obscure, location on very slow train, then horseback. And yet the necropolises are now hardly more ancient than in the 1920's when DHL and Frieda visited them. Highly recommended for your next visit to Tuscany.
Lots of great writing about something I hadn't the first clue about. Hard not to love his sardonic wit, though I was less engaged in the drier, more abstract analyses of wall paintings. Look forward to reading more by him.
Having read this book while visiting the places myself, a must if you should go there yourself!
Part travel narrative part scholarly chatter, Lawrence explores tombs in Italy. He has some good ideas and phrases by they were buried in dry prose. Not my cup of coffee.
You'll learn more about D.H. Lawrence than you will about the Etruscans, but still an interesting and quick read.
i can acknowledge this book's place in the canon without ever having really enjoyed it or wanted to revisit it.
