https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/280111.Holy_Bible
Holy shit (literally).
This book is riveting.
It is a fictional novel based on the life of a guy named Jesus who is one badass motherfucker.
The book chronicles some of his totally rad and awesome adventures, such as turning water into wine and coming out of a cave after he died!
Any lover of fictional adventure books such as harry potter will love this book.
It does have some slower parts, but it picks right back up every couple of chapters (the chapters are creatively named after people!).
Also, I learned a lot from this book.
Nobody even knows who wrote the books of the Old Testament or exactly when they were written but they take them as absolute, inerrant fact passed down from the mouth of god himself.The Gospels of the New Testament are nothing more than an illustration of a diety playing the part of a neglectful, absentee parent who, again through extremely elaborate and ineffective means, attempted to "get back in touch" with his creations using a middle-man.
I got my first Bible in 1974 and have been reading the Bible nearly daily since then.
I have at least six Bibles.
Two of them are falling apart, I've read them so much.
I cannot get through a day without prayer; I do not know how anyone does.
The Bible helps me through the worst times in my life.
I highly recommend it to anyone who is Christian.
I highly recommend the Torah or the Koran to anyone who professes to be one of the other major religions in the world.
By reading the Bible, one gains peace.
The Bible, Hmm, how do you review God's Word? people have attacked it, scientists have expended their best energies trying to disprove it, governments have butchered millions to kill it, bu it remains 'For if their purpose or activity is of human origin, it will fail, but if it is from God, you will not be able to stop these men; you will only find yourselves fighting against God.'
It would be an understatement to say that this book changed my life.
Knowing this book and its author is my life.
I have learned to better love the Saviour and hero of this book, Jesus Christ, and what my identity and life is in him.
In the same way we desire more food and drink throughout our day, so in the same way I thirst for the words of this book and the author of them.
it is also interesting to learn how many people have died for the preservation, diginity, and spreading of this powerful book.
Note, Jan. 18, 2017: I edited this review just now to correct a typo.I've read the Bible multiple times, and intend to keep on reading it for the rest of my life. I know it to be God's communication to humanity, written by men under the guidance of His Spirit, and revealing His nature, His love, His plans for the universe and for our salvation, and the principles by which we should live. It's a bedrock foundation of truth on which to build our lives.
I have studied and read parts of the Bible throughout my life.
However, I was never able to read the Bible from beginning to end.
I failed each time I tried.
I had even tried various Bible reading plans.
Well last year about this time I tried again.
This time I set time aside for devotion and Bible reading, each morning.
I placed my Bible and computer on my nightstand.
I used the Our Daily Bread webpage for devotion.
It is a very short read with Bible passages.
The site also had a Bible reading plan which I followed.
I’ve just spent the past 20 minutes reading GR reviews.
The glowing reviews made me laugh (oh you, lol).
The bad reviews made me laugh (oh you, lol).
I’ve only ever read translations, so I can’t rightfully give it 5 stars.
And I’m not interested in learning a foreign language for the sole purpose of reading it, so I probably never will give it 5 stars.
In fact, it is much like Tolkien's "Silmarillion" which could be basically seen as an improved, and definitely more interesting version of the Bible.The central character in the Old Testament is a supernatural being referred to as God, or Yahweh.
What we basically follow are the lives of various humans and their adventures throughout a long span of time, in which God plays an active part.In the spin-off, the New Testament, the main hero becomes a lowly carpenter, and allegedly the son of God, by the name of Jesus.
Marx said religion was the opiate of the masses, it's more like religion is the skirts feebleminded people hide behind to flee from personal responsibility and thought.Sad this bunch of dross inspired so much violence and hatred through the centuries and still does.ETA: Had to read this again for summer 2009 class - it's even more unbelievable to me after a refresher that anyone could believe one word of this and think it's the word of anything but humans bent on building a power base.
It's basically a chronicle of how some bumpkins who had the attention span of a fly were bullied and forced into mass murder so one "god" could become famous and powerful.
The only book to CHANGE the course of my life. To give me hope, something to feed on, something to guide me when I am lost, something to make me cry, fills me with awe, helps me find words to express and pray
Very unsatisfying fantasy novel.
Awful writing, unconvincing and poorly thought out world design, undeveloped or pathetically two-dimensional characters, lack of suspense.
Various narrators present accounts that neither correspond well nor create an interesting divergence of point of view where they disagree - the inconsistencies are so poorly used as a storytelling device that they almost appear accidental.
Many sections, such as Leviticus, read like the Cetacea chapter of Moby Dick, only worse.
The book's only saving grace is its ending; while as disjointed and confused as the rest of the novel, some the lines take on a quality of a haunting semi-poetry that does deserve some recognition.
The former options are more accurate to the original text so I switched to NASB some years ago, however, if I'm struggling to concentrate I sometimes return to my trusty NIV which makes for simpler reading.
However, I would caution those adults who use the latter versions (The Message etc) as their primary devotional Bible.
Some have become so focused on this as to lose perspective about what is important.My own view is that we should all be reading the most accurate translation that we can understand and apply to our lives.
I have been reading this book since 1992, the year prior to my salvation January 4, 1993. I love this book above all the books I own. This book is why I live, breathe and have my being. I love Jesus with all my heart and because of Him I am living; la dolce vita ~ "the sweet life." If you want to know more about Jesus, you can visit my blogs at:http://creatingmemories.typepad.com/c...I have many blogs on their feel free to browse around. Tina
You will still be thirsty and searching.Books I have fully read:GenesisExodusRuthHoseaEstherPhilemon 1 PeterMatthewMarkLuke John1CorinthiansEphesiansCollosiansPhillipians1 Thessolonians2 ThessoloniansTitus1 Timothy2 Timothy2 PeterJamesHebrewsBooks I have read somewhat of:I am starting Leviticus (honestly all the rules get a little boring but they are important)And I've read about half of ReveletionAnd maybe a third of PsalmsA bit of IsaiahStarted ActsYes, there is a lot of abuse, murderer, killing, lying, cheating, stealing and many many more sins in this book but the entire point we as Christians study from this is to try NOT to do these things to the best of our abilities (yes, even Christians are NOT perfect).
borrrr-ing.
This is my BESTSELLER EVER!!! I started reading the Bible when I was still a High School student, on and off in college and through adulthood! But more and more so now! As in daily! And it is my source of wisdom, strength, guidance, everything. Because the bible is God-breathed! So go and start reading it daily you book worm! And after you've read all it's books, you can read it all over again and still get fresh revelations!
Really interesting, but it tries to hard to be enlightening, the plot moves at a "Lost moses in desert pace" and the prose is a little dull. I am however, looking forward to the authors next work Bible 2: The Son Returns.
Today's Christian lacks conviction and this can be seen in the ways in which pastors and believers pick and choose ideas according to their own views.
However in the New Testament Christ allows for God to react to men without most of that righteous anger as punishment for sin.One of my favourite books in this section of The Bible is the book of Job. It is a tale of suffering allowed by God to reveal his majesty and I love how it is a work of wisdom.
It's the Bible, aka God's Word, aka the best and most influential book ever written. What more do I need to say?EDIT: This is my umpteenth time reading through the Good Book in a year's time...and I plan on doing it again next year and every year after that!
This brings me to just two more weeks of reading days!!I know I said last time that I thought I was still on track to finish by mid-April, but I don't think that's the case anymore.
I have three months of reading days left of the Bible, and the Gospels will take up half of that - six weeks to get through them.
I feel proud of myself for seeing it through.Even though I still have three months of reading days left before completing the entire Bible, getting through the Old Testament is such a big accomplishment.
For I am convinced that neither death nor life, neither angels nor demons, neither the present nor the future, nor any powers, neither height nor depth, nor anything else in all creation, will be able to separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord."I really enjoyed this book because it completely changed the way I thought about the world.
There's too much to be said about this book.When you cut away any socio-political feelings you may have about it, there's no denying it's sheer importance in the literature world.
Love it or hate it, but you're probably a product of it.If you're a believer you probably regard this as a five-star bit of literature.
Even the so-called word of God only deserves four stars in my book.
It's not a cohesive work; which I think lends the book some dimension of error and simple humanity--both of which can be easily forgiven.If you haven't read this book then you're out of touch.
Getting to them, however, takes plodding reading through pages and pages of repetitive and boring recitations of how super awesome this god guy is.
At least the bible has the fun parts, in comparison to the koran, which seems to be an extraction comprised exclusively of these mind-killing passages.The second part is slightly easier to read, as it at least follows a more cohesive narrative.
Even the more noble ideas in the book lead to questionable concepts, such as vicarious expiation, neutrality in the face of evil, intellectual irresponsibility and submission to authority.From a stylistic sense, the book has its merits, but again, they are buried in a barrage of repetitive, boring language.
Over-long, disjointed, repetitive in the extreme. The main character, 'God', is poorly sketched out by the anonymous author, and his supposed motivations are often contrary to his actions (showing his 'love' by acts of genocide). By the time the narrative shifts to the Roman occupation of Judea the author has given up all attempts at generating new material and repeats the same narrative 4 times in a row. Lazy.The final section, 'Revelation', reads like the ramblings of someone who has been eating too much of the moss that grows on his cell wall.Avoid.
all in the name of God. Judging by the conduct of those who hold fast to this book's 'teachings' (you all know of which cult I am referring to), its safe to say that either these people are horribly mistaken in their understanding of this book's text, or the one in whom they act for, who they represent, is in fact a giant asshole, who, based on what we have all learned from his followers, is planning on sending us all to burn in fire and not just temporarily but for eternity, making it safe to assume that of all the sadistic pieces of shits that have ever walked this earth, this god of the The-Community-Who-Shall-Not-Be-Named, is the worst of them.

The ultimate key to understanding life, death, and all that matters.
I'm working on a major project, and I figured, since I've got several books on my currently-reading list that I'm not likely to complete for years, I might as well add another, and share my progress here.
I have no idea what I'm even reading about there) and then started back into the Hebrew Bible, where I've almost polished off (survived?) Leviticus.
Leviticus - Read (this book has a bad rap - it's really interesting!)4.
2 Corinthians - Read at least twice (and still don't get much of it)48.
Hebrews - Read59.
This book is all over the place! At the very least it should have been published as two different novels - I don't really see much of a connection between the first half and the second half. Completely different characters and tone. The first half was too violent for me, but the second half wasn't too bad. For some reason I kept getting the feeling that we weren't getting the WHOLE truth about Jesus though...hmmm, perhaps some chapters were edited out by the publishers?
