https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/263645.Big_Dog_Little_Dog
Yo le pensaba dar 2 estrellas, pero mi niña dijo que 5. Asi que lo deje en un término medio, 3 ESTRELLAS. Aunque no creo que la opinión de mi hija sea objetiva, a diferencia de sus otros libros que ha calificado, ya que este libro se lo regalo su abuelita el día del niño. Asi que para ella el libro tiene una carga de cariño extra.Me encanta que tenga libros en español y este libro es muy lindo y divertido. Ya habíamos leído  Go, Dog Go . Asi que ya estábamos familiarizadas con las ilustraciones
Asi que lo deje en un término medio, 3 ESTRELLAS.
Asi que para ella el libro tiene una carga de cariño extra.Me encanta que tenga libros en español y este libro es muy lindo y divertido.
. Asi que ya estábamos familiarizadas con las ilustraciones y el estilo de prosa.
Repetición, repetición y muchos adjetivos para alimentar el vocabulario de los niños.Es la edición bilingüe, y la verdad no me gustó nada la traducción al español, ¿en serio traductores 
Bueno la verdad últimamente me he vuelto una odiosa de las traducciones, así que no me hagan mucho caso.
The story starts off by introducing the big dog and the little dog, Fred and Ted. It describes the two dogs, saying what they like, what characteristics they have and what they do.
The message that the author is trying to get through is to not make big problems out of little problems.The characters in this story are Ted and Fred.
The author does a great job of describing this random information of Ted and Fred.
Any reader, or listener, will enjoy this book.
It is a great little story that anyone can fall in love with.
Fred and Ted are two dog friends who, despite superficial differences - one is tall, the other short, one likes red, the other green - share an apparent disdain for pants. The two of them go on a skiing holiday together, but despite their obvious romantic feelings for each other, societal pressure forces them to sleep in separate rooms. This is the best gay love story since Brokeback Mountain.
B loved it. He reads it out loud to himself.
Big Dog, Little dog is an anthropomorphic book that explore two friends and their ability to solve problems on their daily adventures.
The conclusion of the book poses a problem that cannot solve without a third party (a bird).
Big Dog, Little Dog is a great book for teaching children contrast and comparison.
It is a book that teaches how to use each other's resources to solve problems.
This book could be used with a math lesson on space or size comparisons.
It could also be used with a color lesson as well since one dog uses red and one uses green.
This book lived at Gramma's house when I was growing up, so I can't read about Ted and Fred without being flooded with memories of my own childhood!
A funny story about Big Dog...Little Dog: This book lived only in our collective memory for many years.
Then, the weekend of my brother's wedding we were discussing it and asked if anyone knew about Ted and Fred.
Jeff, one of Kevin's groomsmen, a fellow football player outweighing everyone in the room by 150 pounds said: "Sure, Ted and Fred.
Big dogs need big beds, little dogs need little beds." As if he had just put it down.
Personal response: I read this book to my little brother who loved it.
This use to be my favorite book when I was younger.
My brother and I both agreed that this book should be rated five stars.Plot summary: The plot of this book is that there are who are very different.
One is big one is little.
One likes green one likes red.
One likes to go fast one likes to go slow, ETC.
Older people should read it to younger people just to see the younger person smile.
everybody please read this book.
These two friends--Ted and Fred--are different: one big, one small, one fast, one slow, one skates, one skis. They are good friends and nothing is really made of their differences until their sleeping arrangements get mixed up! So I guess you could say that it teaches a lesson about accepting our differences. The Eastman books follow in the Dr. Seuss tradition but they are never quite as genius as a true Seuss. But they are VERY good.
They read the book so many times that their mom, who is now sending one of them off to college, knew to say 'FRED AND TED' to me when I made a passing reference to it.All I can tell you is he loves this book as much as they did.
It was worn down to one staple in its spine by them, doodled with crayon craziness, and maybe part of why my son likes it so much is he feels his cousins' love for it leaping from the pages.
So, the kid loves it.
I love its simple and sweet message.
This book is a great story about two dogs who are different as can be but are friends who get along despite their differences. They ran into a little problem while they were trying to spend the night at a hotel together, they each had beds that were the wrong size for them but with the help of a friend they figure out that if they just switch beds their problems could be solved. This would be a good book to show kids good problem solving skills and that they should accept each others differences.
Maybe 2.75? because really two dogs that are opposites is just cute to me..I’d read another book about this duo, I can’t help that I find them cute with their little shirts with their names on them ! The rest of the book was just ok, it seemed like it couldn’t exactly decide what it wanted to be or what the tempo / arc would be.
This is a great book that I use to read to my son when he was younger. It is a cute and funny, book of total opposites: one big and one small. Children would love this book because they could see themselves as opposites of their parents. This book is very entertaining for young children. The illustrations hold the children’s attention. this is a beautiful, colorful, cute and adorable story.
This is a wonderful story about being friends and being different, about asking for help when needed, about realizing that we don't all have the same needs, and that we can let others help us and give us advice, and that it's ok to not always have the answers. It's also about putting your own self-care first. A wonderful gem.
Good book to start reading in a different language
My Daughter loves this one.
This book tries to be cute with words like Dr. Seuss but fails, and the story itself is neither clever nor whimsical.
This was the very first book I read on my own (I still remember reading it to my kindergarten class). I have very fond memories of it.
My little girl absolutely loves this book!!! Her favorite !!!
A childhood favorite that I still love to this day.
good way to brush up on Spanish.
My son loved this one and had me read it to him over and over for the entire 8 weeks the library allowed us to keep it.
Great easy read for K-2
I read this book to my little cousin, Carter, and he loved it.
I also loved reading this book when I was little.
The story started off by introducing the big dog and the little dog, Fred and Ted. It explained how the dogs looked and acted.
A bird overheard their conversation and gave them a solution to their problem.Fred and Ted switched beds and slept comfortably for the rest of the night.
Both characters personalities and appearances were described very well throughout the book.The setting was either on the mountain they were at or in the hotel in which they slept at.
Summary: Fred and Ted are two best friends.
This story is a great math read aloud.
Fred and Ted illustrate opposites.
Many opposites are described in this great story.
The dogs speech explain that although they are different they can still be friends.Reaction: I read this story to my three year old and she instantly was attached to Fred and Ted. Natalie loved how the vocabulary words were presented, pequeño and grande.Activity: One activity possible with this book is to use rulers to measure around the home.
Children will describe the items using the vocabulary present in the book, big and small.
Big Dog…Little Dog is a book about two different dogs; one is big, Fred, and one is little, Ted, and they live total opposite lives, but they are best friends.
After their day is done, they go to a small hotel.
Fred goes upstairs where he sleeps an on small bed and Ted goes downstairs where he sleeps on a big bed.
Fred said his bed was too small, Ted said his bed was too little.
So that night Fred slept downstairs in the big bed and Ted downstairs in the small bed and that night they both slept cozy in their beds.
Big Dog…Little Dog is a great story of how opposite people can become best friends.
This story show how each dog is different from one another but they are both able to look past their differences and become good friends.
The only difference they struggle with is the sleeping arrangements but they still are friends.
This story has good and clear illustrations for young children.
The moral of this story is for friends to be able to accept each other’s differences.
I personally like this book because children can relate to it due to the fact that they are all different from one another.
Every passage in this book is presented in both English and Spanish.
There are also many comparisons (e.g., larger and smaller, taller and shorter) made through out the book that could be used to incorporate early math skills.
Neither dog sleeps well that night, because the big dog's bed is too small and the small dog's bed is too big.
Together they problem solve and develop a solution so they can both sleep comfortably the next night.
They switch beds, and finally get a good night's sleep.
Through this story, teachers can teach problem solving and include examples from within the book.
كتاب جميل سأذكر بعض النواحي التي اهتم بها مع ذكر أمثلة:- المتضادات (طويل قصير ...
وهو "لماذا نبحث عن المشاكل حيث لاتوجد ".قد يكون أيضًا يتحدث عن أن بعض الحلول تكون سهلة وهي من معرفة اختلافنا وكيف نقابل حاجاتنا مع هذا الاختلاف.أضيف إلى ذلك: الرسوم بسيطة وواضحة معدة بشكل جميل وتخدم القصة بطريقة أجمل.
:)نظرية تدور في ذهني منذ مدة ومثل هذا الكتاب الثنائي اللغة (اسباني/إنجليزي) يثبت لي ذلك:تدريس الأسبانية للعرب بالعربية أسهل بكثير من تدريسها بالإنجليزية.حتى بالترجمة.
تعجبت كثيرًا من مدى التشابه - ليس فقط على مستوى تشابه بعض الكلمات أو مطابقتها - ولكن حتى على مستوى القواعد.
The concept of opposites can be explored in a playful manner with Perro Grande.
Perro Pequeno.
Suitable for a child of 3, the repetitive text and rhyming foster a love for reading by promoting print motivation and developing the child’s vocabulary skills.
Children at this age are requiring an explanation of things, so connecting them to a book such as this during a shared reading, only encourages deeper speech and language development.
When a caregiver reads this book to a child, the practices encouraged are those of reading, talking and to an extent playing, because the rhyming and the repetitive text lend themselves to playing with language.
I absolutely loved this book as a child, but after reading it again as an adult, I can't understand why I used to like it so much.
This book tells the story of two friends who have opposite opinions about everything.
They go on a trip to the snowy mountains and one gets a bed that is too small and the other gets a bed that is too big, so they decide to switch and end up sleeping much better.
The illustrations look like they were created with some kind of paint and black ink.
I could use this book to teach about how just because two people are different doesn't mean that they can't be friends.
