https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23966.Filth
The ending, the damn ending to the book.It’s been like five years since I last cried with a book, I actually had to step out of the office (I started reading the book on the bus ride to work, I had 20~ pages to go when I arrived and I sure as hell wasn't going to stop reading) and to the bathroom to try and cool myself down (view spoiler)[when I read the last two pages (hide spoiler)].The book is disgusting in every imaginable way, but it somehow keeps you going. Even though the situations he pu
The ending, the damn ending to the book.It’s been like five years since I last cried with a book, I actually had to step out of the office (I started reading the book on the bus ride to work, I had 20~ pages to go when I arrived and I sure as hell wasn't going to stop reading) and to the bathroom to try and cool myself down (view spoiler)[when I read the last two pages  (hide spoiler)].The book is disgusting in every imaginable way, but it somehow keeps you going.
Loved this. Read it when i was in 4th year so I was maybe 15 or 16.Film was amazing too.
Use quotation marks you limey bastard!
I'm so glad I listen to my friend's book recommendations sometimes...'FILTH' is the story of Detective Sergeant Bruce Robertson, and the first thing you should know about him is that he's a complete and utter Bastard.During the build up to Christmas the race is on for the much desired Detective Inspector position and Bruce is adamant that he is going to be the one.
Like the reader, the Tapeworm learns more and more about Bruce as the book continues.
A story of loss told through abuse, consumption, self loathing and Tapeworms.You are unlikely to find a book like it.
3.5 stars“One of my mottoes aboot the job is: better you wasting some cunt else’s time than some cunt wasting your time.”- D.S. Bruce Robertson* * *“In a sense we are together because nothing, space, time, distance whatever, can break the delicious communion between us.”- Carole
Our protagonist, Bruce is a cop whose life is in ruins, his wife left him, he drinks, takes drugs and fucks whores, on top of that there is eczema all over his privates and a tapeworm in his guts.Reading this is like fast forwarding on a nightmare where the same elements keep repeating and everything spirals out of control slowly.
Bruce hates everything and everyone and his only joy left is making people's live hell around him with perfectly planned scheming.
At a certain point the only sound of reason is the tapeworm inside him.
I'm certain that this book is a masterpiece in its own way.
I have never been so glad to finish a book. Great writer, and I found bits of it funny, but my overriding impression of the whole experience of reading it, was one of deep depression!I am glad to say that I will never have to do that again!!!
Si sa che Welsh affronta dei temi particolarmente delicati (droga, problemi psichici), e che dalla sua penna escono personaggi discutibili, ma il Sergente Bruce Robertson è un personaggio MOLTO particolare, per non dire estremo.
Le cose che lui pensava, io le pensavo, e il suo odio lo condivido per certi versi.
Bruce Robertson è il prodotto di una società troppo politically correct, una società composta da individui che repellono il corpo poliziesco di cui lui fa parte, una societá non ordinata che conferisce troppe ingiustizie.
Uno dei pochi libri che mi è entrato veramente nel cuore e che mi ha segnato profondamente in un momento difficile.
Absolutely my favorite Welsh read.I loved the humor and Bruce was so relateable(to me and my type of humor) but sort of over-the-top in his slurs towards many controvercial subjects which only made me giggle,tsk and shake my head.He thought many of the things people would never admit to thinking in their own heads so they just right off the book as its namesake and dont read any further.
Both the beginning and the ending were great, which I thoroughly enjoyed despite the accent which was extremely hard for me to read and get through.This is an interesting novel with an interesting concept, the "worm" part definitely added more to the story, since we only manage to know more of Bruce and his history through that worm!
My complaints are the accent and the lack of quotation marks (which is a lot!) I was set on giving it two stars, maybe even one, but that ending!
earned that three stars
Reading this book actually makes you fearful that there are people out there like this in positions of power.
Sometimes at yourself when you come to the realization that you are actually finding humor in his actions.
In my adventures of reading modern fiction, I don't think I've ever come across such a horrible creation such as Bruce Robertson.
He makes it bearable to co-exist with Bruce Robertson for almost 400 pages because he writes in such a way that gets you on the same wavelength as his character.
Some people are so deranged, you just can't take them seriously.My reaction to Bruce Robertson was not much different.
You sure don't empathize with him because you're a decent human being who's probably been sheltered from this kind of guys and lived surrounded by smiles and happiness.
And if you can't empathize with the scumbag character you might not like the book.
But I think the difference between right and wrong is clearly defined here: it's wrong what Bruce thinks and does, it's right what Bruce says mockingly, when he contradicts his own regular dirty thoughts.
The constant series of horrors (which are entertaining and shocking to begin with) become something that you are accustomed to, the horror you were feeling at his physical/mental state and his actions towards others to begin with becomes dull.Maybe this is a statement in itself about human nature when faced with atrocities over which we have no control, like the heavy descriptive prose in American Psycho, but like AP, the point had been made quite a while before anything came of it.However, you can see I've given it four stars, and this is because the last hundred pages are truly excellent.
Can you say "Gimmick"?
This book was all about gimmicks, and shock-value for shock-value's sake.
The main character that Welsh creates is, as the title suggests, utter filth.
The gimmick of having part of the story narrated by Main Character's tapeworm might have been an interesting gimmick if it hadn't been just one more gimmick in a garbage-ridden sea of gimmicks.
Ditto for the Scotch colloquialism; kind of interesting, might have been good in other circumstances; mostly just hard to read.
Sorry, really not my cup of tea: seemed annoyingly facile and trendy and really, when it comes down to it, not very interesting.
Welsh: farts are stinky tee heeSOMEONE GIVE THAT MAN A CAREER!!For a misogynist you can root for, try The Book of Dave. Self doesn't consider compassion something you can switch on and off when it's convenient to your plot. Point. Also his books have more than one plot point.
Enjoy: Imagine the best thing you’ve ever done; imagine the most energy you’ve ever expended; imagine the ultimate expression of your greatest skill: now multiply that by a one hundred and it’s a good bet you still won’t even come close to the level of Tam Dean Burn’s performance in Filth.His performance is not acting.
It is transformation.From the moment he struts into his onstage office, briefcase and brown paper bag in hand, lays his first fart and offers advice on how to escape the smell, Tam Dean Burn disappears into the skin and loathsome psyche of Detective Sergeant Bruce Robertson.
4.75 / 5 (if you can finish it)This novel took two attempts to read it and several years, plus the release of the movie, to successfully restart and complete it.Filth was the most roller-coaster-like novel I have ever read.
The best way to describe how this novel is reading it is like getting to know someone.
The further you delve into their story, the more you see a person fractured.
That is, if you injected a whole new level of crazy and desperation into those stories, and then left the protagonists and their lives to rot for 20-30 years.
I loved this novel, but I can see why some people might not like it so much.
The main character reminds me a great deal of my Dad. Well my Dad wasn't a corrupt cop, he was a lawyer, but he always struggled with his working class background and wanting to leave it behind.
So I will only say this: Welsh presents the main character in a very complex way, and he is not a likable guy.
Welsh experiments with intestinal worms.
Still you have to figure that someone as coke addled and sleep deprived as the main character of this tale is going to experience life as confusing and fragmented.
Mislim da je ovo najbolja stvar koju sam do sad pročitala od Welsha.Glavni lik je sve što jedan policajac ne bi trebao biti: rasist, seksist, alkoholičar, ovisan o kokainu , čudnih seksualnih sklonosti i općenito osoba u kojoj ima jako malo morala.
Iako je radnja pomalo usporena i razvučena, ne smeta, jer sa svakom novom stranicom Bruce pada sve niže i sve se više otkriva koji je njegov glavni problem zapravo (a to otkriva trakavica, glista koja se nalazi u njegovim crijevima).
I onda taj kraj.
Malo je knjiga za koje mogu reći da mi se svidio kraj, ova je jedna od tih rijetkih.
actually it's 4,5 stars but 4 would be a disservice anyways very vulgar obscene clever fascinating and pure gross - not a treat for everyone but I don't know why I really liked the anti - hero laughed at his pathetic schemes and jokes and couldn't put the book down. it's not 5 stars since the tapeworm trick was kinda below the expectations and the plot itself was quite simple and not that original.still, it was so much fun!
Cuando leo un libro como este, sé que no debería escribir inmediatamente una reseña.
Welsh tiene algunos fallos como escritor y a su trama y desarrollo de personaje supongo que se le pueden poner pegas de muchos tipos, pero no lo haré, porque es un autor que por encima de todo, es valiente y visceral y porque no soy quien para criticar a alguien con un estilo tan propio.
Si te gustan las novelas donde los personajes son lo más importante, debes leer esta novela.Si pudiera resumirlo, sería como el hermano pequeño de "El perfume", el primo lejano de "Lolita" y el hermanastro bastardo de "La naranja mecánica".
Those of us that can understand the language and Scottish dialect and actually finished this book know that is is superb. It is dark and not everyone's cup of tea, but I am glad that I read it and it will stay with me.
If you are indifferent about this book, you might find a lot of its content repetitive but Irvine Welsh cuts right through a lot of pages with the ferociousness of Edgar Wright montages while unwrapping a new layer of perversity and despair at each turn.To call Bruce Robertson an unconventional hero would be a massive understatement.
If you have read any reviews or descriptions of this book, you might find him described as misanthropic, vulgar, racist, manipulative, blah…blah….blah….but what they don’t mention is that he has an infectious sense of fun and is incredibly charming (probably not to the characters but certainly to the readers).
So delicously revolting.
Welsh is at his best, here.
The metaphor is spot on.
The dynamic narrative device is shocking and perfect.
Bruce Robertson is a nasty, nasty piece of work, making Francis Begbie look positively choirboy-like in comparison.
The twist, when it comes (and that's not a spoiler--it's Welsh, so you knew there would be one) is shocking and yet fits so perfectly all at the same time that it seems to have been crystal clear from the beginning.
Not for the faint of heart, but if you want to see the power of disgust explored by a master of the craft, get this book immediately.
Mi-a plăcut la nebunie cartea asta, iar finalul m-a zăpăcit complet. Cred că tocmai am descoperit un nou autor preferat. Jeg are de toate. Sex, suferință, droguri, parvenitism, vise spulberate. Ai crede că nu poți empatiza cu așa un personaj, dar te înșeli amarnic. Cu toții avem un pic de Bruce în noi.Din păcate, am văzut și filmul imediat după ce am terminat lectura și m-a dezamăgit teribil. Dacă îl vedeți înainte de a citi cartea, nu-l lăsați să vă inluențeze. E doar o pojghiță subțire a ceea ce a vrut să transmită scriitorul.
El retrato de la decadencia de un hombre consumido por sus propios demonios, con el hilarante humor negro que caracteriza a Welsh, definitivamente no recomendable para público sensible.
'Filth' sucks you deep into the disturbed, poetic, perverted, brilliant and fevered brain of Detective Sargent Bruce 'Robbo' Robertson.
For me, THIS was the most intriguing part of the story.(SPOILERS)The bastard son of the serial rapist 'The Beast' who raped his young mother, Bruce was treated as such by his father and pretty much everyone else who knew him.
At the end of the book, Robbo's suicide seems to be a petty way of getting back at his ex-wife.
Pretty filthy, in several ways the word can be used, from beginning to end.It's told in first person by the main character, Detective Sergeant Bruce Robertson of the Leith Police, who's approaching middle age and is one of the detectives competing for the single available promotion to Detective Inspector.
He feels he's entitled to it because he gave up a few years of rank by working in Australia when his wife Carole wanted to live near her Mum down there.Sometime before the beginning of the story Carole has gone away to spend some time with her Mum, who's back in Scotland, and Bruce is on his own.
He's mean, vicious, vulgar, racist, sexist, alcoholic, wasted on cocaine and wants that promotion.
Об отзыве я начал думать еще за три дня до прочтения, в голове все время крутилось слово "сумбур", но концовка заставила изменить мнение, это очень структурирование произведение, есть начало и конец, довольно жесткий, но наверно автор решил что герою так будет легче, чтобы все пришло к логическому заключению.
Автор очень остроумно привел второго собеседника главному герою, это червяк внутри его, паразит, но так ли это, мне показалось что это и есть герой, его вторая личность, которая объективно воспринимает мир, и решительно хочет исправить конец, но жизнь к сожалению не так проста и нет простого решения, поэтому все закончилось как закончилось.
This has echoes of Martin Amis's "Money" in it's presentation of a truly vile lead character: Bruce Robertson, is a scheming,racist, sexist and bigoted Detective Sergeant, investigating the murder of a black man outside a nightclub.
However, the real let down for me was, the cliched and one dimensional characters.
This combined with the predictably contrived conclusion and a book that outstays it's welcome by a good 50 pages or so.Nevertheless, if you can stomach some of the more gruesome parts, and are a fan of Welsh's gritty, inner city, drug addled realism, you're in for a sleazy, but thrilling insight into a truly disturbed mind.
