https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25944381-cruel-crown
(I really only read 142/200 pages, because the last chunk is a Glass Sword sampler.) Queen Song 3/5Steel Cars 3/5 these we're both just okay. I loved learning about Queen Coriane! The Farley story didn't really do much for me, though it did give me more details on her character. I might end up doing a video review for this so keep your eyes peeled.
There is nothing so terrible as a story untold.** **There is nothing so terrible as  this  story being told. So, we get the  absolutely essential  novellas chronicling the lives of  incredible women  who play  pivotal roles  in the Red Queen series.Thus with heartfelt cheer and warmest wishes, Victoria Aveyard graces her audience with yet another  completely useless and half-assed book.  “There is no greater pain or punishment then memory.”   I honestly laughed when I first read that quote but
Because some stories are just meant to be told too good to pass up on a money grab.After all, these are the two women responsible Mare's greatest life dilemma - does she go with good-guy-hottie (Coriane's brat) or bad-guy-hottie (Elara's spawn).
So, I don't know where this title thought it was  [redacted].In fact, so much of this novella was [redacted] that I literally wanted to [redacted] [redacted] [redacted] up its [redacted].
Farley has this over-the-top-posh British accent throughout the audiobooks and yet literally everyone else has a very standard American accents.
Cruel Crown consists of two novellas, Queen Song and Steel Scars. While I loved Queen Song, Steel Cars disappointed me in an epic level. I'm still glad I was able to experience them, though-- Queen Song, especially, because it was simply amazing. :)My reviews for both novellas:QUEEN SONG  "There is nothing so terrible as a story untold." Queen Song is one of the novellas of Red Queen series. Here, we are told about the backstory of Queen Coriane, the mother of Prince Cal from Red Queen. Coriane
Cruel Crown consists of two novellas, Queen Song and Steel Scars.
While I loved Queen Song, Steel Cars disappointed me in an epic level.
I'm still glad I was able to experience them, though-- Queen Song, especially, because it was simply amazing.
"There is nothing so terrible as a story untold." Queen Song is one of the novellas of Red Queen series.
This led to conflicts and certain intrigues that tested Coriane's strength and belief while carrying her crown as a Queen.It's Victoria Aveyard's flawless and breathtaking writing style that made me embrace this novella.
It's nice to know Coriane's story after she was mysteriously mentioned in Red Queen.
A compilation of two short novellas, 'Cruel Crown' provides a glimpse into the past, as well as a bit more insight into the story's present.
The first novella tells the story of the young Coriane and Tiberias.
The second novella focuses on the life of Farley as she works to lead an uprising, eventually finding a leader in Mare.I absolutely loved hearing Coraline's story.
I absolutely relished the love story between Coraline's and Tiberias.
Then it was nothing but gloom and doom.After Tiberias and Coraline's story ends, we fast forward several years and change to Farley's POV.
I liked both of the stories. All the feels are back..
THE REVIEWWhy this book?I wanted to get this read before Glass SwordWhat I thoughtThis was just boring and I really didn't care. I didn't even finish the second story. I only finished the first one because she's Cal's mother.
Cinco estrellas para el relato de Coriane; tres estrellas para el relato de Farley.  Queen Song Me fascinó leer esta pequeña historia desde la perspectiva de Coriane, la madre de Cal. Gracias a este relato podemos ver cómo una chica de una casa, en ese momento menor, logró llegar a ser la Reina. Coriane nos muestra una faceta diferente del rey Tiberias y de su corte, así como el origen de las intrigas y recelos que están ya consolidados en Red Queen. Me pareció fascinante ver cómo las garras de
Me fascinó leer esta pequeña historia desde la perspectiva de Coriane, la madre de Cal. Gracias a este relato podemos ver cómo una chica de una casa, en ese momento menor, logró llegar a ser la Reina.
Coriane nos muestra una faceta diferente del rey Tiberias y de su corte, así como el origen de las intrigas y recelos que están ya consolidados en Red Queen.
Su maldad se vierte en cada una de las páginas de este relato e intoxica poco a poco la mente de Coriane...
I really enjoyed Queen Song, featuring a different style of prose than the traditional broad-brush and salty spunk of Mare Barrow’s plight as the little lightning girl, and seeing into the humanity of Silver politics and personalities was a wise move on Victoria's behalf.
Even though anyone can betray anyone, Queen Song gives more food for thought in the way of good and evil, right and wrong, rather than Red vs Silver.
2.5 starsI quite enjoyed 'Queen Song' and would have loved to read more of that storyline. 'Steel Scars' on the other hand, I could have cared less about. I'm not a fan of Captian Farley and found myself skimming through this one just to get it over with.
En Canción real nos presentan a una Coriane de buen corazón, pero también débil, quien a sabiendas de cual es su enemiga y lo que esta pasando, se deja vencen sin hacer nada para impedirlo.
En Cicatrices de acero vemos a una Farley abriéndose camino en la Guardia Escarlata, pero toda la jerga militar le quita calidez a la historia y nos deja con algo que brinca de un tiempo a otro sin enterarnos practicamente de nada.
"He was the prince. the future king. And she was no one at all, a limp excuse for a Silver daughter of a High House."  This novella was clever. I have been so curious with the story of the first queen, Cal's mother story. All we got to know her was that she was Julian's sister, a Singer, and the queen before the cold-hearted Elara took over. It was written on a third-person point of view given the fact that Queen Coriane has already past away - I wasn't expecting that. I thought that this novel
Although we all have our suspicions, the question still remains on who really is behind the Queen's death?
It actually took me 3 days to finish reading this, a real feat, considering it was just a novella with more or less a 100 pages.This Novella was from Farley's, The Scarlet Guard Captain's POV.
I mean, I remember Mare noting Farley as a Foreigner, a Lakelander, at first sight, so how can they walk around the Norta lands without raising any suspicions at all?
An entertaining, fun & insightful, but overall unnecessary addition to the series
"There is nothing so terrible as a story untold." DOPE!
I liked both stories but neither of them I think actually contained any information that you just really need to know and that would improve your reading experience of this series. Nevertheless, both were very quick reads and I still enjoyed learning a bit more about both Coriane and Farley.instagram || my blog || twitter
"Two women on either side of the Silver-Red divide tell the stories no one else knows."THAT COVER!!
Especially I want to know what happens with Queen Coriane, and a exclusive excerp of Glass Sword OMG.
------------------------------------------------------------ Average Rating: 4.5 Stars Queen Song: "The Calores are children of fire, as strong and destructive as their flame, but Cal will not be like the others before.
(view spoiler)[something that probably doesn't happen because of Maven Lol (hide spoiler)]Steel Scars: 4 Stars A book with Farley's pov?
I really like Steel Scars, but mostly the second half of the story because I was more connected with the characters you know Shade, Mare, etc.
In these books you will get to know Cal's mother and more about Farley and Shade's relationship.
Queen's Song:Now this book made me love Coriane so much!
Cori knew that Elara was up to something, and oh yes - you meet that little twat in this book too.
I really did wish I actually got to meet her in the first book, Red Queen.
They both knew that what happened to Mare during the Queenstrial was going to be bigger and more important than anyone expected.Overall, I'm really glad that I got to know more about Shade and Coriane.
PRETTINESS STRIKES AGAIN
I admit I quite care about her diary but boy, I'm disappointed because it is just of full of angsty monologues and narratives.
*sighs*I like the ending anyway so 2 stars.STEEL SCARSFarley is a great character but I'm afraid she's boring and one-dimensional in this novella.
I am disappointed.
If not for him, I will probably gave this novella a 1-star rating.
And don't get me started with the reports thing-y about their missions because fucking hell, it's not engaging at all rather it brings a whole new level of annoyance to me.
Oh please, spare me.OVERALL RATING: Double MEH!Rise, Red as the fucking dawn!
This was a great addition to the series. It was nice to get to know these characters a little better and the sneak peek of the next book was awesome!
I wasn't a big fan of Red Queen to be honest; I'm not saying that it was a bad book, I just found it rather boring myself.
Cruel Crown was so much better than I was expecting, and I'm glad that I decided to give the series a second chance because it was totally worthwhile to find out some of the past story behind Red Queen, in fact it kind of filled in any missing details from the first book, which was also interesting.
Now I really want to read the second book in the series, apparently it's coming out this year.
KILL ME)3-Los personajes de Corona cruel son los que más me gustan de la saga de la reina roja.¡Pero carlos, si son dos personajes que apenas desarrolla!
Corianne y Farley son personajes interesantes por que la Vicky no les ha puesto las manazas encima.
Hasta ahora.Primer relato: La dramas visita una comida, la dramas hace su papel de dramas y luego pos se mata porque no puede ya con tanto dramaNo es un spoiler.
Hay personajes que tienen dramas internos, luchas sentimentales y situaciones forzadas, pero hija mía, es que todos sus personajes, adultos o jóvenes, son para darle una bofetada.
Okay, so this was the surprise of my year so far.
I have read both Red Queen and Glass Sword and to say that I didn't love them is an understatement.
I thought they were okay but not amazing.
Imagine my surprise when I picked up Cruel Crown this evening and ended up giving it five stars!
These two short stories were amazing!
They made me want to pick up Kings Cage right away, which is impressive because I have been holding off on reading that one since I bought it.
I loved them both so much!
Disclaimer: I have NOT read the extract of Glass Sword as I would rather read/review it once I get a copy of the novel in full!I'm feeling extremely conflicted about how to review this novella bide-up.
It was nice to return to the Red Queen world and enjoyed following Coriane receive a diary in which she writes about her honest thoughts towards her family and relationship to the heir Prince Tiberias.
It was nice to return to the world that Victoria Aveyard has written about, if there's one book that you should read this year, it's Red Queen.
3 Stars I found I really enjoyed Coriane's story, even though I knew the ending, it made me hate Elara even more (is that even possible?). Though I found Steel Scars to be a little slow, perhaps a bit too long. Overall it offered some interesting insights into significant events that occur before Red Queen.
Queen Song (p1-54) = 5⭐Steel Scars (p55-142) = 2⭐I have separate reviews for both stories. I would not recommend to buy this book. The first story was amazing but the rest was so boring! And the last third of the book are the first 4 chapters from Glass Sword.
Queen Song (p1-54) = 5⭐️Steel Scars (p55-142) = 2⭐️I have separate reviews for both stories. I would not recommend to buy this book. The first story was amazing but the rest was so boring! And the last third of the book are the first 4 chapters from Glass Sword.
Cruel Crown consists of two novellas, Queen Song and Steel Scars, that are prequels to Red Queen. I wanted to read these prequels before starting Glass Sword in case there was any information in them that would make me feel lost in the second book of the series. Queen Song  ☆☆☆I read this first prequel nearly a month ago before putting the book aside to read other things. I was a little all over the the place this month and started a lot of books all near the same time that I'm just now wrapping
Cruel Crown consists of two novellas, Queen Song and Steel Scars, that are prequels to Red Queen.
I wanted to read these prequels before starting Glass Sword in case there was any information in them that would make me feel lost in the second book of the series.
True love wins in the end, though - sort of.Although I know there have been many kings in real history who have taken lovers openly, it really seemed odd how casual everyone was with King Tiberias V's lover.
We knew close to nothing about Farley from Red Queen, and this prequel gave us a glimpse of who she was before the Scarlet Guard's attack on Norta.
Queen SongNice to learn more about Queen Corian's story, would have liked it to be longer to get more of a feeling for her relationship with Tibe. Overall I really enjoyed this story.Steel ScarsIn contrast to the first story, I didn't think this was ever going to end! I was confusing and I especially didn't enjoy coded emails, I had no idea what Farley was doing half of the time and it just felt so long winded. Not a fan.
I absolutely loved Queen Song sad and real. There was tragicdy. Everything wasn't rainbows and butterflies, happlily ever after which I liked. Steel Scars? I found my mind wandering off and thinking about other things while reading it, I couldn't get into the story at all. So half and half: loved Queen Song not so much Steel Scars.
Sinceramente no es necesario leer estas historias para continuar la saga, pero son muy recomendadas si te gusta mucho La reina Roja porque vas a descubrir el pasado de la madre de Cal y de Farley y te ayuda a calmar el hype por La jaula del rey, tercera parte.
Poco más puedo decir porque es un libro muy cortito y con poco que diga puedo decir mucho.
En resumen, Corona cruel son dos historias cortas donde vamos a conocer un poquito más a dos mujeres importantes en la tetralogía de La reina Roja y es perfecta para hacer más amena la espera de la publicación de la tercera parte, La jaula del rey, que ya se sabe que va a ser publicada en junio de 2017.
I wouldn't mind if Farley's story had been expanded.
____________________________________________________________The Backstory of Red Queen: The First Betrayal & the Start of the Scarlet GuardCruel CrownOverall Rating: 3/5Queen’s Song: 2/5This is the story of Coriane Jacos, the mother of Cal from Red Queen.
Julian is one of my favorite characters.Steel ScarsRating: 4/5The Scarlet Guard began somewhere and Farley had a lot to do with it.
After years of working with her Father- the Colonel- it’s time for Farley to strike out on her own as a Captain.
Another reason I liked this story is SHADE.
