https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6375845-batman
(A-) 81% | Very GoodNotes: A grandiose, sprawling, byzantine epic, it’s about exploiting vulnerabilities and the tactical manipulation of memory.
I had such a hard time deciding how to rate this one. I liked it and I didn't like it. I'm going with a four star..just because I love me some Batman and there are several really good things about this book.Like: Batman and Catwoman. Do I like them together doing the smoochie smoochie? Well, somewhat.  I thought it would be hotter than it was..I mean come on, they are both awesomeness..but well it kinda fizzled in this book.But here? Pure hawt. Yes, I know I'm weird. I've been told that before.T
I'm going with a four star..just because I love me some Batman and there are several really good things about this book.Like: Batman and Catwoman.
I liked him teaming up with Superman and I figured out who the bad guy was before the end, but it's not a bad book.What I thought was over the top:Too much going on.
Why does the Batman series that I've read have to have every bad guy that he has ever fought in each book?
In the end this is one of the better Batman books I've read.
Jim Lee Superstar,Or: How Many Fights Can You Pack Into One Book?Batman vs.
In short, Hush isn’t much of a story.Still, I found myself admiring the sheer professionalism displayed by both writer Jeph Loeb and superstar penciller Jim Lee. It is obvious that they were both fully aware of the rules of the game - they knew what the fans wanted, and that’s exactly what they delivered: as many fight scenes as possible, featuring as many well-known characters as possible, all drawn in Lee’s trademark sketchy, angular, overblown action style.
. Okay, enough with that.What I find fascinating is that nearly every Batman graphic novel I’ve read recently has been a good/great one.
What makes Batman such a compelling character and fodder for some of the greatest stories ever written?
2.	He’s only human – Unlike his buddy, Superman, Batman has no superpowers.
Unlike Superman, he’s prone to darkness, hence the whole Bat theme.
His rogue’s gallery – Batman probably has the greatest group of villains in the history of comic books.
Only Spider-Man comes close.
He’s a scientisthttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HqBSnQ...6.
Batman moons over getting kissed by Catwoman.
An excellent Batman story!
An unknown enemy is trying to destroy Batman at the same time he enters into a relationship with Catwoman.
But who knows all of Batman's secrets?I've been hearing about Hush since it was coming out in monthly format and finally decided to give it a chance.
While I liked Jeph Loeb's work on Batman: The Long Halloween, I thought it felt a little padded.
(view spoiler)[It was pretty obvious who would turn out to be Hush.
(hide spoiler)]Hush is the best Batman book not written by Scott Snyder that I've read in a long time.
Never have I read such an emotionally satisfying Batman tale.As much as I loved The Dark Knight Returns (and what sixteen year old comic book geek in 1986 didn't?), there is something inaccessible about Frank Miller’s Batman that always pushed me two paces to the side.
Well, he’s the same guy, but Batman Hush invites us into Batman/Bruce in a way I’ve never experienced.
Second, it could be that, for the first time since the Dark Knight era of Batman dawned, I’ve read a story arc that put Batman’s need for vengeance at the end of the queue.
His work is very "high-def", and I think mysteries are more effective with subtle, even murky images...I don't want to see each individual sinew of Batman's bicep, and I don't think it helps set the tone of the story.While the mystery was fun to try and solve, and the twists and manipulations were surprising, the final reveal of the criminal was a huge letdown.
He was so bitter that his mom survived Wayne's surgery, that he waited years - became a renowned surgeon - and plotted to destroy Wayne's son - all the while "pretending" to be a good kid????
And why would he go to the trouble of becoming a surgeon when all he wanted to do with his life was inherit a fortune?
This was a harrowing Batman story: exciting, enigmatic, loads of guest stars - and a surprise ending. Up there in the greatest works of the ever-expanding Batman cannon.
Absolutely fantastic.Though, holy spoilers, Batman.Hehehe.I suppose you have to expect that with such a long running series, but honestly this doesn't keep me from wanting to read the previous stories any bit even though I know what's going to happen now.
Plus, I kind of knew bits and pieces from the movies, the animated series, and the video games already so I can't really complain that much.I really love all of the women in this universe, though Catwoman will always be my favorite.
But no joke, it's a well written mystery.
Hush is this: Batman is doing his normal rounds when the villains are suddenly acting and fighting with uncharacteristic superiority, and he realizes that someone smarter and more strategic is pulling the strings.
There are many heroes: Batman, Tim Drake/Robin, Nightwing, Superman, Catwoman, Huntress, Oracle, and Jim Gordon.
So I appreciate the tenderness between Batman and Catwoman, because that's extremely rare in Bat books, and it's nice to see that Bruce does have a heart.
Loeb has written a riveting story in true form to Batman.

Hush is without doubt one of the worst Batman books of the last 15 years but what makes it even worse is how highly it's rated by so many comics readers. Well, I re-read this recently because I couldn't remember a thing about it from the first and only other time I read this years ago and what did I find? Good reason for why I couldn't remember a thing about it. So I wrote an article on it's many failings here
4.5 starsWow. This is probably my favorite Batman comic!I went into this thinking that I already knew who Hush was. I thought it was (view spoiler)[ Jason Todd (hide spoiler)]. But there were so many twists and turns in this that I soon realized I had no idea who Hush was and I was caught completely off guard at the end. I like that, at its core, it's a classic detective story. And I love that they did that because it stays true to who Batman is: a detective.I also really loved all the character
4.5 starsWow. This is probably my favorite Batman comic!I went into this thinking that I already knew who Hush was.
But there were so many twists and turns in this that I soon realized I had no idea who Hush was and I was caught completely off guard at the end.
I like that, at its core, it's a classic detective story.
And I love that they did that because it stays true to who Batman is: a detective.I also really loved all the character cameos.
This is like the definitive modern Batman stand-alone comic (if I may say so).
I've read Hush in the past (Batman: Hush, Vol. 1, Batman: Hush, Vol. 2), but this one is some kind of collector's edition or something.Whee!Except I didn't actually open the book at the library.So.Yeah, it turns out that Hush Unwrapped is meant to showcase Jim Lee's penciling.
Which, to be fair, are really impressive.
However, I'm not a fan of black and white comics.
Pssst...There's a reason why they employ colorists, you know.I enjoyed the story, but I wouldn't recommend this version to someone who hasn't read it before.
This is something geared more toward HUGE fans of Lee's art or fanatic collectors.
If you are looking for an all-encompassing Batman experience, one that covers every facet of Batman's being – everything that makes him one of the greatest superheroes in all of comics – then you will find it all in abundance in Batman: Hush.Like I said, Batman: Hush is not so two-dimensional as to only touch upon one of Batman's litant of superior skills, but it rather showcases the best of his fighting expertise as well as his brilliant mind and detective work.
4.3/5 Hush is not only one of the best Batman Comics I've ever Read but one if the best Comics i have ever Read.
it's a solid overall story with a butt load of cool cameos.
it's a solid mix of seriousness and fun with some really good detective and mystery elements.
The art work by Jim Lee is really, really good, I always love his Batman stuff.
It featured nearly every character I know to be big Batman characters: Nightwing, Jason Todd, Joker, Harley Quinn, Poison Ivy, Leslie Tompkins, Huntress, Oracle, Harvey Dent, Jim Gordon, Killer Croc, Riddler, Scarecrow, Tim Drake, Superman, Lois Lane, and, most importantly: Catwoman.This was more like a love letter to their relationship than anything.
The plot is just fantastic but I came to the same conclusion I come to whenever I read a Batman book; Bruce Wayne is the least interesting part.
However, it still made for a great story.The standout character here is Selina and she's lovely as ever.
I am usually a fan of Jeph Loeb's writing and this was no exception.
We get to see several of his relationships which include Dick, Tim, Jason, Alfred (of course), Selina (my fav), and even a childhood friend, Tommy Elliott.
Cameos from classic Batman villains are always welcome.
Even more so, when they are acting even stranger than usual.
We get to explore her relationship with Bruce in greater detail except now they know each other's secret identities.
Love that she walks off when she says that Bruce still doesn't trust her.The ending was a surprise when the villain was reveal.
This was a good graphic novel.
There were a lot of twists and turns in the storyline as Batman followed Breadcrumbs and realized that a particular character wasn't the one pulling strings, and everything is leading to a puppet master behind everything.
What I didn't like so much is that the main character who is behind everything really isn't revealed in this volume, even though you can easily surmise who it is.
I'm glad my library has Batman: Hush Returns.
I liked the artwork and the storytelling is good, just too abrupt an ending.
At first, I just knew who Hush was.
It kept the focus on the main plot and gave Jim Lee and Scott Williams to draw out some of the best artwork possible for Batman's universe.
Batman : Hush is definitely one of the sexiest piece of art out there.
The character of Hush is thoroughly interesting and well developed.
He definitely spices things up.This volume collects both volume 1 and 2 of Hush and references to a lot of past events (The Killing Joke, Death in the Family, No Man's Land and so much more).
Predivivni crtezi prepuni detalja, akcija koja skoro ostavlja bez daha i atmosfera koja je skoro savrsena.Ali onda stizemo do price... i najslabijeg dela i koje mi na kraju skoro upropasti sve ovo. Jednostavno suvise konfuzno i to ne potrebno sa glupavim objasnjenjima i bezveznim krajem.Velika steta ali opet po meni svaka preporuka za ljubitelje Batmana.
2.5 stars. This was a pretty good Batman story but I went into it with such high expectations that when I finished I was a little disappointed. Overall, I enjoyed it but it is not among my favorite Batman stories. I did, however, really like the art by Jim Lee.
A very entertaining, very good Bat-book. Has the flavor of a Morrison Batman book without the batshit craziness.
3,35/5Crazy beautiful illustrated. The story is also strong for a superhero graphic novel /comic.
Also, it focused on my ship Batman/Catwoman, as well as more exposition with the distinctions of each Robin to Batman (from Dick to Jason to Tim), and the delightful cameos of Superman also helped a lot to appreciate this story.Hush was ambitious in scope and often outlandish and bizarre but it remains easy to enjoy to a newbie especially if they wanna see Batman have some romantic angle to his character, and was able to provide charm and quirkiness for a longtime Batman fan.RECOMMENDED: 7/10DO READ MY BATMAN COMICS REVIEWS AT:
All-star cast!Something peculiar seems to be pushing the buttons of every bad guy who has ever hated Batman.
One by one, terrifying villains Batman has battled and defeated in the past are hunting down Gotham's superhero once again to finish him at last, empowered by a strange confidence and new skills.
Well, at least Batman can count on his friends...maybe.
Some of them are acting peculiar, too.
Murderous, actually.
Oh oh.In this special collection, everything that we who adore comics and what we adore about Batman comics is included in 'Hush'.
I consider this book an uber-Batman series.
Plus, stunning art.
WOW!!!
This was a really good story!
So first off the artwork is beautiful!
The story is a little harder to talk about, this kinda feels like Batman Eternal, because of the main plot and all the different sub plots, one of the sub plots being one which explores Batman and Catwoman's relationship which was good!
The Main story is hard to talk about, one of its flaws is that it does jump around all over the place, but in the end its a highly entertaining, and has a twist at the end I didn't expect!
Great overall batman story. Has all the villains and a cool story arc involving them all. Artwork was solid. Would be a good starting point to any new Batman fan. Some of the story would feel a little too cliched for hardcore Batman fans. I loved it still and would highly reccomend it.
One of the best Batman stories ever done.
Catwoman and I have a long-standing difficult relationship that has to do with how she was depicted when I was younger by certain problematic comic book artists.
The other thing I loved was the writing, the dialogue really fits the characters and there were some really, really authentic moments, which is difficult for a comic book.The plot I didn't like so much, but I am more of a character-driven reader and writer, that's just how I work.
