https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/410138.Manservant_and_Maidservant
La tradizione nella quale s’inserisce, per sua stessa scelta e ammissione, è quella che viene da Jane Austen, George Eliot, Charlotte ed Emily Brontë.Ho letto diversi romanzi della Grande Signorina, non sono mai rimasto deluso.
Rating: NO stars of fiveBkC9) Next to SONS AND LOVERS, the worst, most horrendously offensively overrated piece of crap I've read in my life.I have no reason to revisit this decision.
I still feel slightly ill when I think about this boring, annoying book.
I left my copy on the subway so some wino would pick it up and realize that life has more to offer than misery, boredom, and despair.I refuse to go any further into this book's gynecology.
I hate it too much, and yet still am not masochist enough to go at it with both barrels and an AK-47.
The love had gone and the money remained, so that advantage lay with Horace, if he could have taken so hopeful a view of his life.
It's an early moment, like Chekhov's gun, that the reader feels must reappear.So, the children cross lines too.
It is such a small thing as that which the author uses to expose the character of others.There is also a Mrs. Doubleday, with a face like George Eliot.
It’s like working hard on a college paper about a subject you’re interested in – it takes a lot of effort and mental sweat but when it’s over, you feel like you’ve accomplished something.Manservant and Maidservant is a rather dark comedy about the Lamb family, their servants, and several incidental characters who cross their paths.
You are pretending to know,” said George, not doubting the divine observation as much as the conveyance of its results to Bullivant.
One of the best reading experiences I’ve had in a long time so I would recommend this novel without reserve.
On yet the other hand, there is a delightful storyline revolving around the five Lamb children that's reminiscent of some perennially popular 19th Century children's novels.I kept hearing that this novel is difficult to read because it's almost all dialogue.
It was as if all those children in the stories I grew up with were placed in a household with normal, less-than-perfect parents.Of the commentary I read, Horace Lamb is referred to as a sadist who is suddenly motivated to change his ways.
The Doubleday family also didn't make sense, especially the way they just disappeared from the story.I primarily gave this book 3 stars because of the scenes with the Lamb children.
Their inevitable stage, the large English country house, looms over the declining gentility.
Perhaps Horace Lamb's tyrrany is mirrored Bullivant's articulate dominance.
In these narrative plays, voices dominate, and one of the oddest effects is an occasional unexpected presence, as here with Horace's elder cousin Mortimer.
[while he suspects them of engineering a plank in a bridge to collapse and kill him]" A voice out of nowhere appears, "Can I be of any help, dear boy?" Mortimer always calls Horace that.
Probably this is an effect that arises from the large English country house, where people may appear without others' cognizance.
This book is extremely odd, and far more difficult than I had expected.
Other reviewers have described the dialog (and the book is nearly entirely dialog) as "stilted"; I can see what they mean, but I think this is the case only because the characters' lives are also stilted.
I think this is what gives the book its odd character, and it is also its strength.
Nothing is romantic here, not even the most violent, horrifying, or potentially titillating of events.
In fact, the gap between the nature of the plot and the language in which its events are expressed is striking and, I think, extremely interesting.
MANSERVANT AND MAIDSERVANT. (1947). Ivy Compton-Burnett. **. I’m not sure how I managed to make it through this novel, but I finally did. This is the first novel I’ve read by this author, and, likely the last. It is the story of an English household in Victorian times. The master of the house, Horace Lamb, is a tyrant, and rules the household in an iron grip. His wife, Charlotte, is preparing to leave him, to elope with his cousin, Mortimer. Mortimer was a ward of Horace’s father, and lives with
This is the first novel I’ve read by this author, and, likely the last.
Mortimer was a ward of Horace’s father, and lives with the family as if he were a true part of it.
There is a staff of servants to support the needs of the household.
The relationship between the family and the servants is a big part of this novel.
When it was first published in America, it came out with the title, “Bullivant and the Lambs.” Supposedly, that was done so that the American reading public would not be put off thinking it had to do with servants – even though it did.
This book, first published in 1947, is set at least 50 years earlier and focuses narrowly on one family with a rather tyrannical father, their neglected children, their servants, and a very small number of friends.
The story is mainly told through dialogue and that, with the limited number of characters and settings, makes it seem almost like reading a play.
The dialogue is clever in a witty way and requires a certain amount of concentration.
I liked it a lot and I think I will enjoy more of her books.
It's a pity they are now out of fashion and some are out of print.
it is evident that she has a very strong command of the english language, and of dialogue, but it was not enough to carry the book, which left me cold.
the bottom line, as it often is, is that i didn't like the people in this book.
i didn't like horace, the patriarch/bully at the centre of the piece, i didn't like mortimer, his milque-toast cousin and would-be cuckold, or horace's wife charlotte, or their children -- so much for the family at the core of the book -- there is also a barely significant aunt emilia too.
While I appreciated the style the novel was written in--driven by dialog and bare, "stage" directions--I found the characters mostly repellant in their dullness.
One character--that of Mortimer--was consistently entertaining.
The section where Horace confronts Mortimer, and the ensuing dialog there, is really brilliant.
I would assign that section of the book four stars.
The book did remind me that class structure in that time was rigid, and that one's station in life was nearly impossible to transcend, which made the novel's characters--particularly the servants--all the more frustrating (especially to this modern reader) in their stultification.
Although set in Victorian England and written by an author who lived through the Victorian period, there's very little about Manservant and Maidservant that's Victorian. The characters, true, talk like they're all Oscar Wilde, but Compton-Burnett clearly sees right past their facades. Nobody ever means what they say here, and everyone has skeletons in their closets (or out in the open). Although it can get a bit hard to follow if you don't pay attention, Manservant and Maidservant is masterfully executed and clearly had an influence on authors like  Henry Green and possibly  William Gaddis.
Even with all the children.She isn’t as funny as Waugh, but she is, I think, pithier.
We do not owe everyone our confidence.”“People might want to hide the good they were doing to someone else,” said Jasper.“Trying not to let the left hand know what the right hand was doing,” said Tamasin.
Even if it really does not let people know about it.”Emilia and Charlotte laughed, while Horace remained grave.“It is the left hand that has made the rule necessary," said Sarah.
“It seems to be the more active of the two.”“I think the nature of man must be left-handed,” said Tamasin.— p.
A professor of English suggested that I read Ivy Compton-Burnett for an example of how to conjure setting through dialogue.
It's written almost entirely in complex, stilted dialogue, almost as if the characters are making speeches on stage.
her stylised repartee can remind of Oscar Wilde and is more directly the forbear of, say, Harold Pinter than of the British novels of today...
her novels, seemingly so stylised, were more realistic than they seem and must have borne considerable resemblance to the facts of her life.' For myself, I couldn't make up my mind if she was breaking the literary rules on purpose, experimentally, or writing naively without knowledge of them.
The structural feature that makes it unusual is that the story is predominantly told in dialogue, which does take some getting used to -- though after a while, you do, or at least, I did (Andrea said the same, so don't let that feature put you off).
(If you don't know anything about Joe Orton, get the collected plays immediately, he was brilliant and funny!)I was expecting a kind of creepy commentary on Victorian life (though the author was writing years after that era), and that's what I got.
I have always been curious about Ivy Compton-Burnett becuase of the descriptions of her work as a dark cynical wit, stripping bare the pretensions of her time.
Essentially everything takes place in an on the surface humdrum fashion with dark undercurrants revealed layer by layer in the dialogue between the various characters who all regardless of age, gender or background speak like undergraduates showing off to their friends.
Actually reading that last sentence it does not sound so bad and I suspect that someone a little more sophisticated and subtle than me might enjoy the book a great deal.
For myself the main pleasure I got from this book was ticking it off my to read shelf.
The dialogue killed me.
Nobody talks like this, expect maybe people in poorly written screenplays.I'm sure there is genius in Burnett; maybe I'm looking for all the wrong things in the wrong place.
But Austen had reaped free narrative discourse about 140 years earlier and Woolf had done such beautiful things with this and stream of consciousness and throughout the book I just wanted to reach through time, slap Burnett, and command her to use the tools her processors had painstakingly honed for her.
But that didn't work, so I was left with a narrative that is almost exclusively dialogue that has no variation whatsoever.
Just read Austen instead.
This book was published in 1947, two years after Henry Green's book Loving, which has a similar story about the contrast between the servants of a large British house and the family members. I have no idea whether or not the authors knew each other but I think they would have had an interesting conversation about class consciousness in these situations. I have to say that I prefer Green's book, but this one has its own quirky assets. The two are a good double bill...
Com'è che nessuno legge la signorina Ivy Compton-Burnett? Ho letto questo libro in tre giorni esatti. Un libro fatto tutto di dialoghi serratissimi, di aforismi lancinanti, un libro perfetto e di grande cinismo e cattiveria. E' leggera, allegra velocissima e nello stesso tempo intrisa di pessimismo cosmico. A tratti ricorda Beckett e Jonesco. Com'è che nessuno legge Ivy Compton-Burnett? Appena trovo un altro libro lo compro. Ne ha scritti 18 e io sono solo al primo. Che fortuna!
An interesting read more for the writer's personal history than the book itself. It is Victorian English and almost all dialogue, so it takes some getting used to. However, Compton-Burnett's personal history was so Victorian itself that you can understand why a contemporary of Virgina Wolff was writing like a Jane Austen ocntemporary.
Sometimes children are nasty little buggers. But then, those nasties came from somewhere; more often than not, much taller beasties, who should rather know better.
20th Century Novel pt. 2:S
At first I wasn't sure I wanted to finish the book as it seemed rather slow and not all that involved.
It was worth finishing and is one of those books that you think about and ponder after the fact.
I'd recommend it if you're interested in family Victorian Life.
And, i did find it somewhat difficult to read as (and it's stated in the introduction) it's written almost entirely in dialogue as if you're listening in.
But, it does get easier and I recommend to at least read halfway or more before giving up.
This novel is a good read forreaders who like novels with a lot of dialogue, full of quotes and characters saying things that you will never forget. I love this book and have read it three times! It reminds me a bit of Downton Abby. However it has more wit and more fascinating characters.
There is a subtle and fierce compassion, and an unflinching eye on the small cruelties and humiliations within the household.There is a careful dissection of the psychology of the characters: the conservatism of the senior servants, the rebellion of George, the recruit from the orphanage who refuses to be grateful for his place in the hierarchy and rages against the confinement of his life.Mortimer could be despised for his refusal to make his own way in life, but his self-awareness and compassion to others makes him far more complicated.
She is not as much the meaning of my life as I thought.
I am so glad to have the word to breathe to you; I should not have liked to part without one.
I do not think my life has any meaning.
It allowed people to communicate their thoughts, and what else could come of that?
I just wait for it to pass, and I find it is true that all things come to those who wait.
I cannot understand why people want to recall the hours.
[...]What struck readers in the 1920's as savagely witty - because so persistently unsentimental - sounds painfully dated today, and many of the exchanges in the novels are of the forced quality of television situation comedy.
The use of puppet characters in sketchily realized settings suggests an imaginative deficiency, rather than the unique genius proclaimed by Compton-Burnett's early supporters.
* 1000 novels everyone must read: the definitive list: Family and SelfSelected by the Guardian's Review team and a panel of expert judges, this list includes only novels – no memoirs, no short stories, no long poems – from any decade and in any language. Originally published in thematic supplements – love, crime, comedy, family and self, state of the nation, science fiction and fantasy, war and travel – they appear here for the first time.
Previous: Elders and BettersNext: Two Worlds and Their Ways
So weird. The dialogue-only, no-frills style takes time to adjust to, but the sense of menace and of humour too is conjured up brilliantly. The book captures a time and a milieu that no longer exist - and didn't exist by the time it was written - but it draws you in completely. A lesson in how to evoke atmosphere and characters without adjectives - many authors could usefully take note!
