https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5941055-the-curious-case-of-benjamin-button-and-six-other-stories
Equal parts wit, drama and social commentary, these stories made me think back fondly of the days when I would sit in school trying to dissect texts just like that and look for its historical and literary meaning.
I found the stories to be not only a delight to read, but also containing a very true message about humans and human nature.
Just to illustrate, a short quote from 'O, Russet Witch', where the hero, an aging man, realizes his prudent and lovely middle-class life was worthless because he had never been on the other side of it: "'O, Russet Witch!'But it was too late.
I liked the stories, although I had a few problems with the first story - The Curious Case of Benjamin Button. My big problem about it is(view spoiler)[there was no mention of a mother throughout the whole book, except for one instance in the middle of the book where it mentioned 'Mr and Mrs Button. You'd think she'd at least be mentioned at the birth! (hide spoiler)].
3.5 StarsLove some of these, was a bit bored by others. Fitzgerald is a fantastic writer, and his display of life in the 1920 is fascinating.
در این قصههای کوتاه، سالها و ماهها به سرعت میگذرند، انگار که درباره عمر نوشته شده باشند. داستانها از بعد از شوقها میگویند و با وصال تمام نمیشوند.
در این قصه‌های کوتاه، سال‌ها و ماه‌ها به سرعت می‌گذرند، انگار که درباره عمر نوشته شده باشند. داستان‌ها از بعد از شوق‌ها می‌گویند و با وصال تمام نمی‌شوند.
It is a one-trick show, an extended tale on how it would be if an individual could live their life backwards.
But, as the title suggests, things don't proceed normally.I found these stories captivating for their onward narratives, their strong distinctive characters and their evocation of a period now long gone but with aspects many of which still remain with us -- films, bookshops, teeming cities, provincial life -- the sweet shock of recognition.
Some of the stories within this book really resonated with me, despite The Curious Case of Benjamin Button being the only one I had heard of upon picking the novel up.Just as The Great Gatsby, you don't necessarily like the characters purely because Fitzgerald meant it this way; his writing has that rare ability to make you feel so much, whether that be a like or dislike for a character. Every word is beautifully placed for the purpose of feeling.
This is not the exact edition I had but mine doesn't seem to exist in book form. Or I just can't find it. I was surprised by the simplicity of the Benjamin Button story. It was somewhere around 50 pages, although that's a guess, and it was basically just "he's born, he got younger, he died" with a few life experiences thrown in. There really wasn't much to it. The other stories were also semi-interesting.
Such exquisite writing. The best of its kind.
A man ageing in reverse; a man's life defined by the times he was punched in the face; a man who sacrifices his academic career for the woman he loves, before resenting the fact she becomes the successful one: they sound great, I just find Fitzgerald's style too dry to ever actually feel gripped or fully engaged.There's also racism in pretty much every story.
At least now I can say definitively that I've given him a fair go and his style just isn't for me.
A beautiful collection. A must read for all those who wish to write in future. He is a craftsman of words and his stories are a masterclass in the art of writing. The stories reflect raw human emotions and despite having been written in a bygone era are relatable to this day.
Admito que esperaba que The Curious Case of Benjamin Button fuera algo similar a la película, pero no lo fue: más que una historia, lo sentí como si fuera una crítica social, especialmente porque le reclamaban a Benjamin que se "comportara"(haciendo referencia a que dejara de hacerse joven) y que siguiera las costumbres de la sociedad, además de que se hacen referencias constantemente hacia la opinión social
I liked this quite a bit. Some of the stories were much better than others. My two favourites being The Four Fists and The Curious Case of Benjamin Button. The others were a little difficult to get into at by the time they held my interest they were over. It was in enjoyable however and I look forward to reading the rest of Fitzgerald's novels. I will say that I think his stories are definitely influenced by his personal life. Those that are familiar with his life story will probably make the same conclusions.
Until reading this compilation I had no idea that F. Scott Fitzgerald had made his living chiefly by writing short stories rather than from his novels which varied in their success. All the stories were beautifully crafted, leaving one with vivid images. Fitzgerald imprints his own character on each tale particularly his dread of a dull and conforming existence. The stories made me want to research Fitzgerald's own life which was like many of the characters in his stories a somewhat wasted one, fuelled by too much alcohol and sadly all too brief.
F. Scott Fitzgerald is just not doing anything for me, there are some interesting ideas and in a short story there is a good amount of plot weaving, however, the writing varies between a high standard and just plain lazy.
I also do not appreciate his casual racism, I know there is a different social context but I would like to know the authors I read were intelligent enough to know even at their time that this was wrong.
I believe there are some observations on human nature but on reading a few of his works it pretty much boils down to centering on a New York affluent circle, extramarital affairs and all the characters lives linking up in the end.
Meh. I watched the movie (The Curious Case of Benjamin Button), and I have to applaud the screenwriters because F. Scott Fitzgerald’s original short story is a SHORT STORY! Freakishly short. Basically it’s just a pitched idea. But a cool idea nonetheless! I’ll give him that! And the movie turned out beautifully.  The other short stories are nothing special.... but they are VERY short. So not much time wasted...
3.5*
I had no idea that Fitzgerald was such an amazing short story writer. hurI honestly expected to read some stuffy writing in old English but got a smorgasbord of thrilling stories written beautifuly. If you haven't read anything of Scott Fitzgerald before I truly recommend you to pick this book up. Now. And enjoy.

I was slightly disappointed to learn it was actually a short story and nothing like the film.
I think the short story is incredibly difficult to achieve a successful story with, as usually it feels rushed and as if, as a reader, you cannot be fully immersed in the plot or fully get to know the characters.
What is more the characters feel very familiar to me and are very vivid in my mind.
I think I'd like to read a novel by Fitzgerald as I think I would enjoy that much more out of the constraints which a short-story imposes on writing style.
This was an interesting story and lacked the 'Forrest Gump' nature of the movie.
Simple story of a man who was born old in both body and mind and steadily grew younger throughout his lifetime.
It was an interesting look at how women lost all value as they aged and how people regard others depending on how old they appear.
Poor Benjamin's wife became completely useless to him as he became young and she became....45!
She became so useless that she just moved to Italy one day.
I thought it was strange that his mind went backwards with his age.

The Great Gatsby was dismal, and shallow but some of F Scott Fitzgerald's prose was quite poetic so i decided to give his writing another chance.
Upon reflection, i don't think i'll ever love any of his writing as it really doesn't resonate with me at all.
Too shallow, superficial, and far too concerned with high society.
However, i actually really liked "The Four Fists" and "O Russet Witch!" which saved this book from being an utter waste of my time.
I really want to like Fitzgerald as the era he writes about is what i'm interested in but so far i've pretty much loathed him.
Fitzgerald wrote many potboilers,books whose main purpose was just to put food and wine on his table. You'll find a few of them here--the silly, fairytale premise of a man living backwards in time drags itself out in the title story of this collection. Martin Amis made a much more meaningful novel out of this premise in The Arrow of Time.
I loved the Curious Case of Benjamin Button, the Cut Glass and the Four Fists. The other stories seemed almost interchangeable and almost knocked this down to a three, but the three that I liked had so much enjoyment per page that I would highly recommend them to people. The Four Fists in particular did a great job of making me genuinely like a character that in many ways was very dislikable.
No es 100% fiel a la película, pero me terminó gustando igual. El personaje de Daisy no existe, por ende esa parte etérea y romántica de la peli no aparece, pero sí fue gracioso lo que sentí al leer a Benjamin cuando nació (cuando le pide a su padre un bastón xD) y la profunda tristeza y nostalgia cuando muere de bebé. Sin dudas es una de mis historias favoritas.
I didn't enjoy any of these short stories which was kind of a let down because "The Great Gatsby" is one of my all time favourites. Maybe I'm just a whole novel kind of person.
Odd.
*3,5*
The most creative book I've ever read.
I had no idea Fitzgerald wrote this. Mind blown!
