https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/69647.The_Widening_Gyre
When a state representative is getting blackmailed with a film of his wife having sex with another man, he hires Spenser to get to the bottom of things for him.
But when Spenser learns the man's identity, he's bitten off more than he can chew, especially with him preoccupied with Susan Silverman being out of town.I was needing a quick read before taking on another fantasy read and The Widening Gyre fit the bill.
Anyway, Spenser gets on a security detail for a state representative with an alcoholic wife and things spin out from there.
(Come to think of it, he reminds me a lot of Jesse Stone—a character Parker would develop fifteen years later.)Spenser signs on as director of security for the senatorial campaign of Republican congressman Meade Alexander.
Alexander has been threatened with death if he will not drop out of the race, and he wants Spenser to find out the source of these threats.
Then the congressman opens up and tells Spenser about the family's blackmail problem, which soon becomes Spenser’s major focus.Although this novel is still entertaining, it may be the weakest Spenser so far.
Alexander and Ronni are not very interesting characters, and the blackmail plot—although a little bizarre—is not that interesting either.
The only thing that mildly intrigues him is that Alexander’s opponent is rumored to have ties to organized crime.However, things get interesting when Meade confides that he’s received a blackmail videotape that shows his alcoholic wife Ronni having sex with someone else.
The bad news is that after it was done, Parker would become obsessed with making Susan and Spenser soul mates, and use Meade Alexander as the template for a ‘good’ man who absolutely loves a ‘bad’ woman.
But this is still one of the best Spenser books.Next up: Susan takes Spenser’s heart to San Francisco in Valediction.
ReviewThe best Spenser so far.I have rated 5 stars here, because Parker is finally exploring Spenser (and himself) as a deep character.
The first half of the book is adequate, by-the-numbers Spenser storytelling, but the second half brings Parker up to the level of Connelly and his Bosch.However, this is the best of all the Spenser novels due to Parker's use (finally) of the deeper conversations between Spenser and Susan, and between Spenser and his "son", Paul.
Spenser's deep talks with Susan several times, and especially with Paul, show the inner conflict, and the true coming-of-age of Parker and his flawed hero.
One of the weaker Spenser entries, with a dreary tone and an uninspired blackmail plot. Some of the dialogue still zings, but Spenser's narration is glum, as he and Susan are going through a rough patch, and even the supporting characters are dull here. I can't say if Parker phoned this one in, was going through personal issues, or what, but this is not a very good book. Skip it, and the next few in the series, unless you are a completionist. Blah.
My mind wandered at times.Here’s a term I hadn’t heard - granny sex.
Sleazebag invites 40-something women to his home for sex orgies with college boys.
The older women have sags and wrinkles that 20-somethings don’t.
Two of these sex scenes are briefly described - no details.As to plot, characters, and actions - nothing really grabbed me, nothing memorable, not as much wit or humor as in prior books.The narrator Michael Prichard was very good.DATA:This is book #10 in the Spenser series.Narrative mode: 1st person Spenser.
Swearing language: strong but rarely used.
Sexual language: none.
Number of sex scenes: two described, but without detail.
Spenser is moping around some, drinking his Irish whiskey right out of the bottle. Susan is in school up in Washington, so our big thug is feeling a little sorry for himself. I'd feel better if Susan stayed out of Boston...but, that's another story.:)The usual Spenser wit, and good 'ol investigative work (his usual stakeout) takes him up against a top mob man in Boston. Good stuff thirty years after this one came out.
That was a really good one, spenser was in rare form. I really liked how uncertain he becomes about his relationship with susan and subsiquently himself. it has a really somber feel to it and a building tension between them as they begin to grow apart. this book feels like the series is building to something and that energy is what's missing from the later books in the series.
The relationship between Spenser and Susan.
Susan goes to school in Washington, D.C. Spenser misses her in Boston.
Every year it got easier Page 120 to smile without warmth.
"If he dropped out," Susan said, "he could feel virtuous and make her feel guilty." "He says he doesn't want her ever to know that he even knows about the films." "It would allow him to feel superior to her, "Susan said.Page 123 .
"Probably not," Susan said.
. .Page 123 through 125 is very important in Spenser and Susan's relationship.
Then Page 159 - 160 where Paul discusses Susan and Spenser's relationship.
Meade is running against Robert Browne who is well represented and heavily backed by the mob.
When a VHS tape (that lets you know how old this book is) turns up at Meade’s residence, he knows he needs help, ergo, Spenser.
While investigating Ronni’s indiscretion, Spenser uncovers a game being played, the son of a local mobster is trying to make daddy proud (yes, the same mob as is supporting Browne) and build his own game.
In fact they let the underage girls they are also cavorting with watch.Together with Hawk, Spenser avoids being rubbed out by the mob and they save the day once again.
I love the Spenser series and either missed this one or forgot it. Still pretty good though somewhat dated.
Blackmail, gunfire, and lots of illicit sex, all bound together by Spenser's ruminations on honor and love. This is a fine outing; fans of the series will not be disappointed.
That may sound facile - but isn't it possible that as respect for institutions like the press have waned, and people instead can and do stuff their brains with conspiracy-theory fake news that's available non-stop for free on the internet, the result has been a cheapening of the culture, such that even a charlatan like Trump can actually not only get elected President but also command a devoted following, who blindly believe his lies?
And for all the humane things that are pumped into people from an early age, at school, church, and home - they are still going to gravitate toward hate/prejudice on the internet - and eventually think that lies (conspiracy theories) are true, and liars like Trump should be elected POTUS.
Indeed, I was certain of this because I was well aware of Spenser's opinions of theism in general and traditional sexual ethics in specific.Sometimes, even an experienced reader is wrong.
I was right in my initial evaluation of Ronni Alexander, but I was very wrong in my premature judgment of Spenser.
It seems like that ethic can only work when most humans feel some kind of Kantian (or Biblical, if you will) moral obligation and society forms some kind of restraint or force to keep those who don't from taking advantage of those who do.
This story dealt with Meade Alexander, a right wing conservative Christian, running for US Senate.
I too and a right wing, conservative Christian and I was waiting for Spenser to attack Meade verbally throughout the book but he surprisingly kept his comments kind of tame.
In fact I think he showed Alexander a little respect for his views.Meade's wife Roni likes her some nose candy and likes her some college boys on the side.
Meade finds all this out when a video of Roni having sex with college boys is sent to him threatening him with exposure if he doesn't drop out of the political race.
In this one, Spenser is missing Susan who is in Washington because of her new job.
He later finds out the politician is being blackmailed and Spenser looks into the case.This book wasn't the best or worst Spenser book.
I didn't care for the reason of the blackmail but I loved how Spenser investigated the case and its resolution.
As for the Spenser and Susan relationship it took up too much of the book.
It was just a little too dreary for my taste.I have not read a bad book in this series yet.
Parker's tenth Spenser book is vintage Spenser, though it's near the point where Parker began to phone it in (after "A Catskill Eagle").
Admittedly, phoned-in Parker still had significant elements of the vintage Spenser books, but they were shorter, more focused on the conversations between Spenser and Susan about manhood, less hard-edged (except for couple, like "Small Vices"), and, amazingly, with fewer literary references slyl embedded in the dialogue.
At this stage, it's a not uninteresting plot device.
“Gyre” is one of the earlier Spenser novels (#10 of 39) that takes place when Susan is in Washington DC serving her internship.
When our hero gets a bodyguard job that takes him to DC, his dinners with Susan resemble relationship shrink sessions, which according to other readers reflect apparently a marital split between Parker and his beloved Joan.
He doesn’t want her to know he knows, and Spenser goes to great lengths to protect their relationship – those angles again perhaps influenced by Parker’s own issues.
Spenser is hired to help born-again Christian Senate candidate Meade Alexander with a secret problem he has with his beautiful wife whom he is devoted to - a videotape of her engaged in sex with someone not her husband.
The politician's wife is unaware that her husband has been sent the tape.
The investigation takes Spenser and Hawk into the seamy world of porn and, of course, the mob is in the middle of the mix.Meanwhile, Spenser's girlfriend Susan has moved to Washington, D.C. for a psychiatric internship.
Spenser is depressed by her absence and mixed about her career moves.
This is the 10th Spenser novel, picking up on one or two themes from Early Autumn (Spenser7, published a year earlier in 1980).
By the standards of others in the series, the incidence of vioence and killings is relatively small as Spenser is engaged to minimise the potential damage of blackmail in a congressional election campaign.Already there are signs of the elements that set Parker's detective apart from most others.
His relationship with Paul Giacomin, the young would-be ballet dancer, is maturing.
A surprisingly average Spenser novel. It was a surprise because I knew going in that it had Paul and Hawk in it, and delved into emotional aspects of his relationship with Susan, but I didn't feel it did so in particularly deep or insightful way. Hawk was nearly an afterthought in this one and Paul merely shows up and we see he's ok and thriving. There wasn't anything bad about it. It was just typical and average.
Not the best of the Spensers but still worth reading. Has a wonderful epigraph that limns the title: Turning and turning in the widening gyreThe falcon cannot hear the falconer; Things fall apart; the center cannot hold;...From W. B. Yeats's "The Second Coming"And a wonderful line on page one:What you thought about it, silence was rarely silent. Silence was the small noises you heard when the larger noises disappeared.
This book deals with a candidate, his cheating wife, and others who deal drugs, put on "granny parties" where aging women have sex with much younger men while teenage girls are voyeurs. Susan is doing an internship in D.C. which is how Spenser comes to find out this information. An old enemy Joe Broz, is not happy to find that his grandson is involved.
Not one of my favorites in the Spencer series. The audio only ran for a little over four hours, though the narration by Michael Prichard was as good as usual, and it seemed like Parker was fixated on the Spencer/Susan relationship and the main plot about blackmail, politics, and organized crime was an afterthought.
Three minus. Should be a 2 due to the short length and writing style, but I did like it.....once again the fault with a 5 rating system.
Parker was such an exceptionally wonderful writer ~ nobody else seems to be able to match him!!!!! :)
Once I got started on this, I realized that of course I had read it before. But I couldn't remember who the bad guys were... and I was on vacation... so of course I kept reading. :-)
✭✭✭½
Excellent! I love Spenser... and Hawk! :)
"What's happened to you is that you've left Susan inside, and you've let me inside. Before us you were invulnerable. You were compassionate but safe, you understand? You could set those standards for your own behavior and if other people didn't meet those standards it was their loss, but your integrity was . . . " -- he thought for a minute -- ". . . intact. You weren't disappointed. You didn't expect much from other people and were content with the rightness of yourself."  I leaned my forehead
"And the rightness of myself is no longer enough."	"Yes," Paul said.
"You have committed yourself to everything I've worked all my life to stay free of."	"I know," Susan said.
109-111)	"The other thing that's killing me," I said, "is, I suppose, a problem of excessive self-concern.
I guess I'm feeling that you're not grateful."	"Good heavens," Susan said.
That's mine."	"Yes," Susan said.
"How are you?" Susan said.
"I'm all right," I said.
"The thing is," I said, "that to be what I am, I need to feel the way I do about you.
