https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34728667-children-of-blood-and-bone
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestWELP. Looks like this book is joining THRONE OF GLASS on the books-that-made-me-lose-friends shelf. Note: I'm going to start blocking people who come onto this review to tell me that I have read or reviewed it incorrectly. I tried it, I didn't like it, I wrote about my feelings. What do you want? A five-star review? Write your own. 😊After reading some of the five-star reviews for this book, I'm reevaluating how much I trust some of my frien
What happened?I specifically chose to read CHILDREN OF BLOOD AND BONE after AMERICANAH because I thought they would complement each other well and lead to some interesting parallels that I could discuss in my review.
I'm not saying that TYLER JOHNSON and CHILDREN OF BLOOD AND BONE fall into that category, but by shutting down valid criticism and enabling poor story-telling, this is going to be a problem.Part of me kind of wondered if the publication of CHILDREN OF BLOOD AND BONE may have been rushed so the release date coincided with that of Black Panther.
I’m totally infatuated with this world and cannot wait to see it expand in following novels.I really loved the characters in this story.
Amari is another character I LOVE.
It was so nice to see a girl start out meek and afraid but slowly grow into herself and become more comfortable in a group of people totally different from her.
Inan is a character I also loved, but I did have some issues with.
I loved him as the vengeful prince out to prevent Zelie and Amari from bringing magic back.
Inan is a very intense character to begin with and his changes are equally drastic.
“No matter how much I crave peace, the gods have other plans.” 4 1/2 stars. Wow, I have had quite a week. I started Children of Blood and Bone last Thursday as I was going into labour (because, why not?). Normally, I would devour a book like this in a day or two, but those of you with kids will know that's just not going to happen with a newborn. Instead, this book rode with me through the hospital stay, sleepless nights, and postpartum weepies. It kept my eyes open on those long, long nights.
Normally, I would devour a book like this in a day or two, but those of you with kids will know that's just not going to happen with a newborn.
It takes all the best bits of YA fantasy - princesses, tormented soldiers, the battle to restore magic vs suppress it - and does something completely new with these familiar elements.
Now, Zélie is a divîner - a maji without magic, though her abilities lie dormant, waiting for the missing scroll that can return her power.The book is told from alternating perspectives.
You'll like this book. I'm biased, but I need to meet my goodreads challenge so I'm marking this as read.
THE HYPE IS REAL!I always prefer to decide for myself if the new overhyped YA book is worth it... and I'm happy to say that this new Fantasy book totally was!I loved the magic system, the world, the characters and cannot wait for the next book!My only complain is with the romance. I hate romance. I hate how everyone needs to be paired up especially in YA and how cheesy it is. I kinda wish this series was adult instead but if you're looking for a book you'll fly through I totally recommend this one!Will impatiently wait for book #2!
4.5*I'm definitely going to have to reread this, but the audiobook was an awesome introduction to this story!
This was a gripping read.
The world building here is phenomenal.
The main characters are richly drawn and I was invested in each of their struggles.
This book is very action packed.
So much is happening!
The ending is such a cliffhanger and I want to know what’s next.
This is well worth reading and such a strong debut.
Tzarin could be more developed.
Who is he beyond his sister’s protector?
At times the story felt overly dramatic.
Zelie and Inan were deep in their feelings all the time and it became frustrating.
Like calm down teens.
Get ahold of yourselves!
Gah!
I was just talking about how I hoped I get my poster for the book and it came and it's freaking awesome!
♥I loved this book so much!
❤This book is everything and I have a new favorite author =)  I try not to think of her.
But when I do, I think of rice.
When Mama was around, the hut always smelled of jollof rice.I think about the way her dark skin glowed like the summer sun, the way her smile made Baba come alive.
The way her white hair fuzzed and coiled, an untamed crown that breathed and
When Mama was around, the hut always smelled of jollof rice.I think about the way her dark skin glowed like the summer sun, the way her smile made Baba come alive.
I love Zelie so much and I also love Amari and Zelie's brother Tzain and Nailah < -- I'm not telling you what she is =) I eventually fell in love with Inan too.
The little group of Zelie, Amari, Tzain and Nailah set out to try to bring magic back.
I had so many feels during this book and I think everyone that loves fantasy should give it a try because it's like nothing I have read and it's awesome!
Explorations of social power, the deft portrayal of racial tensions and persecution, the prejudice and structural inequalities that resonate with our own world/time, all of which should have been enough for me to give this all the star rating in the world but I had so many other issues with it that I found too hard to overlook.Let’s put aside the overly recycled plot and start with my three biggest problems: the romance, the magic system and the characters.
So many of their childish and immature actions kept pulling me out of the story and at a certain point it became too hard to enjoy the book for what it was, especially where Zélie was concerned.
I want to join Zélie and Amari’s squad badly.When you’re a university student, it’s very hard to finish a 500-page book in less than two days and not be five assignments behind, especially this close to the end of the semester.
Getting inside the characters’ heads is important because they not only have to deal with external battles, they must extinguish internal ones, too, at times.And since you’re dying to know why I dared take off a star, it’s simple enough: The magic in this world disappeared eleven years ago.
I didn't really like this book but no matter, it has served its purpose which was introducing me to Amari so thanks for that I guess.It wasn't a terrible book, I am just a horrible hollow kind of indifferent towards it. My heart was itching for an experience that I just didn't get.
ARC provided by the publisher via Netgalley in exchange for an honest review.Buddy read with Adri! 🦊(And my favorite BookTube reviews: Frankie's, Tati's, & Lauren's!)  “You crushed us to build your monarchy on the backs of our blood and bone. Your mistake wasn’t keeping us alive. It was thinking we’d never fight back!”  Children of Blood and Bone is worth every ounce of hype and praise it has received thus far, and I only anticipate it to receive more and more, especially since you’re all ab
The world is amazing, the characters are so real feeling, the writing is perfect, the action is abundant, the romances are beautiful, the topics are important.
Now, the king of Orïsha wants to make sure magic is kept dead, while also keeping all the Divîners that live in Orïsha oppressed.
And I want to emphasize that romance is never at the forefront of this story, but some of the one liners that Tomi Adeyemi gave me where truly some of the most romantic lines I’ve ever read.
This book is powerful, eye opening, and I hope you all take more out of it besides it being an amazing, five starred story.
But then, most of the good reviews garnered by this book are from Americans and Europeans, not Africans (especially Nigerians).
Perhaps, a floating Calabar would've been more appropriate instead of a floating Ilorin.
The summary is that I felt Tomi tried to compress African setting and mytho-religion into the narrow confines of American YA.
The use of the Yoruba language in the books is pretty much unsatisfactory.
The soul of the entire thing is certainly not African, and definitely not Yoruba.
Hopefully the next book in the series will come with big improvements in the world-building because I'm certainly going to read it.
And the characters go from headstrong-little-stubborn-darlings-making-bad-decisions to headstrong-little-stubborn-darlings-making-bad-decisions-BUT-WITH-MAGIC-AND-EMOTIONS which is excellent development.So the world building was definitely masterpiece here for me.
Basically these troubled threesome (along with Zélie’s brother Tzain) are trying to bring magic back but they’re also messy teens who make mistakes and I loved watching them grow!OTHER THINGS TO LOVE• epic female friendship that is actual goals• the ending was an absolute riot of a ride• mY heART GOT LOST WOW• character development is A+• lots of emphasis on glorious hair which is what I’m here for• no one is ever what they seem• slightly absolute dire need for the next book has hit meDefinitely one to keep your eyeballs on, people!
Full review to come!In the meantime - THIS WAS AMAZING. Each of the characters goes on their own intriguing journeys throughout the story, and I enjoyed going along for the ride so much. The setting, magic, and characters were so vibrant and full of life. I need the sequel, and I don't know what to do without it D:Review copy provided by the publisher in exchange for an honest review.
One of my favorite things in the world is to buddy read books with Leigh Kramer; whether we enjoy the book or not, there's always stimulating conversation and deep thought added to the experience that I wouldn't come across on my own.
The best way I know how to sum up just what this book meant to me is this: Children Of Blood And Bone felt like a story so great that I was unworthy of reading it, but the author writes in such a genuine and inclusive manner that it's like she grabbed me around the shoulder and said "Come on in, you're welcome in my world".
This review has been in the works for a little too, but that’s because it’s a tough title for me to review.
I originally received this as an eARC earlier in the year, and made it to about the 40% mark before DNFing it a few weeks before its release.
I had already pre-ordered it and wanted to try it again, so I grabbed my finished copy off the shelf in May and read the rest of it over the span of a few days.
“Courage does not always roar.
Valor does not always shine.” Sometimes, when I set a bo
Sometimes, when I set a book aside and come back to it, it’s because I just wasn’t in the right mood—other times, there was never going to be a ‘right mood’ for that particular read, and that’s what happened with this one.
This entire novel would have benefited tremendously from being romance-free, but instead we got this very awkward, uncomfortable pairing that I saw coming from the first page and found myself cringing, waiting for it to happen, until it finally did.
When I, as a huge lover of romance in stories, literally end up skim reading entire pages of romantic development, there’s a problem.
And even if it's out there, those stories do not get the same type of exposure as books with an all-white cast of characters.
Books like these absolutely need to be supported and published more and become more accessible to readers, especially in this current climate, where empathy should be a more common trait.
Books like these expose us to other worlds, other faiths and races, general differences that exist within us, and reinforces the idea that difference is good.
So.Damn.Good!*weeps*I want to go back and read this book again!
4.5 stars!
Truly, I don’t keep up with an author’s every move to make sure they’re always on their best behavior.
Some of the best authors in the business are dreadful people.But I have to say that Tomi Adeyemi’s recent call out of Nora Roberts on Twitter, accusing this well known & well loved author of capitalizing on her recent bestseller’s fame by copying the title?
It’s not a good look.
It’s taken the wind out of my sails a bit, and now I am not so excited to read this book.
Since I own a copy, I’ll leave it on my shelves for now.
I thought I was going to love Zélie and her badass nature, and that there was going to be all the elements of a wonderful fantasy book.
Yes, I know, she spent half of the book just saying how she wasn’t “strong” or “ready” enough to lead the ritual to restore magic, so I wouldn’t say she’s full of herself.
I’m so sorry, but I don’t know where all the love for her is coming from.
AMARI  I’ll be honest, Nani knows that I spent most of this book jumping from either hating Zélie and liking Amari, and then vice versa.
I suddenly noticed that I felt pretty disconnected from the characters (who I initially liked) and their entire adventure, because everything was just way too fast-paced for me to actually develop an emotional connection to...
(Who also happens to know that Inan himself is starting to develop some magical abilities, which he's desperately trying to keep a secret, since his father would kill him on sight if he found out, so ya know, being daddy's boy and all, he really wants her dead.) I was HERE FOR IT.
I found myself getting attached to these characters so quick and literally on the edge of my seat because everything is so action packed and intense and death can happen to anyone at any fucking time in this book jfc.
I LOVED reading about West African culture.
I, personally, loved it.◇CHARACTERS※Zélie is character who annoyed me a lot throughout the book, but I still really liked her character.
I really felt heartbroken over what he was going through and just wanted to give this poor kid a smoothie or somethin'.※Tzain is Zélie's brother and one of the best characters in this book.
”With the right blow I could knock him off his feet; with the right thrust I could crush his throat.” I’m speechless 😶! This book was everything that I was hoping for and more.The writing is brilliant and beautiful, the story is magnificent, the magic is so unique and the characters are THE BEST PART OF THE BOOK. At the same time, they are very alike, they are very different. All of them have different reasons to fight but they are fighting for the same thing, PEACE.All of the characters at the
All of them have different reasons to fight but they are fighting for the same thing, PEACE.All of the characters at the same time are strong yet feel more them they should, they fight for something worth it of death in the way.The relationship between Zélie and Tzain and Amari is so good!!!!
I’ll kill this curse.If I can’t—I force a deep breath.If I can’t, I’m already dead.”
There here so many badass moments in this book, holy damn if I didn’t love it!!!I lived for the funny moments in this book, because to much happen and I needed a break to be able to catch my breath.
I liked the fact that Tomi wanted to explore Yoruba mythology, i also absolutely loved the fact that she wanted to put Nigeria not just as a place representing Africa as a whole but a country with it's unique culture and all that - she failed in that though , but hey at least she didn't do the whole Africa is a country thing.First of: Adeyemi had a chance really to properly explore yoruba mythology and you know just educate people but somewhere along the line everything started looking like a rebooted Netflix Version of your fave animie.
It took me awhile to get through this book (due to the fact that it’s quite long, and is a very detailed and involved fantasy world), but I highly enjoyed it. I absolutely adored the magic system in this story, and loved the visuals I imagined while reading. I really do hope this becomes a movie on the big screen, because it would be so epic!
All you need to know from this review is....Read the book.
Uhh wow yes this was amazing. Full review to come!
3.75 stars ⭐  “On Earth, Sky Mother creates humans, her children of blood and bone.” This had such a strong start! A world where magic no longer exists, and anyone with heritage relating to those who wielded magic (magi) were beaten, and treated awfully by the nobles. Usually given away by their bold white hair. Zelie is one such girl, living with her Baba and brother Tzain after their mother was taken and killed during ‘the raid’ the time magic was taken away for good. When in the marketplace s
Zelie is one such girl, living with her Baba and brother Tzain after their mother was taken and killed during ‘the raid’ the time magic was taken away for good.
Turns out this girl is the Princess Amari, escaping from the palace after her servant and best friend was killed due to her heritage.
A great cast of characters, Zelie and her brother Tzain.
All of this was great - I grew less impressed with the 2 romances just thrown in (but then I’m not a romance fan at all) both this and the ending kept it from four stars.
‘you may kill me with your hatefulness,but still, like air, i rise.’- maya angelouthis poem was literally all i could think about whilst reading this book, and both are so important.
from a cultural standpoint, i thought this book was brilliant.
the diversity and representation is what gave this book its power.
and although i wasnt as obsessed with the plot and characters as the rest of the universe seems to be, i still found this to be a pretty good story.
i thought inan was a high point - his growth and journey towards acceptance was quite lovely to read.
