https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/761365.Many_Moons
They all keep lists of what they have done for you, they all think about the world as a reality and they all are not helpful dealing with a princess.It is only the court Jester who is wise enough to figure out that what really matters in the problem is what the princess thinks, not necessarily the reality of the situation.
The jester simply asks the princess and fixes the problem.This really is a whip-smart book.
I never heard of this and it is a great book.The artwork is like a dream, fuzzy and hinting at something.
The first time I encountered Many Moons by James Thurber, it was read to me.
But I've never forgotten how much I loved this book.Years later, in my early twenties, I began reading Dorothy Parker.
Which led to reading James Thurber.
The book on our shelf wasn't the Slobodkin version, though, it was the Marc Simont version, and the illustrations almost perfectly matched the illustrations I had carried in my head for thirty years.
And the puppet show, by the way, was delightful.Marc Simont passed away recently.
Illustrated by Marc SimontThe Princess Lenore isn’t feeling well, and she asks for just one thing – the moon.
I’ve previously read another of his fables for children, and I’m equally delighted with this one.
Marc Simont’s illustrations are whimsical and perfectly fit Thurber’s text.
The fact that the Princess holds the key to the great puzzle no adult can solve will especially delight children, but adults can learn an important lesson as well.
The book was originally published with illustrations by Louis Slobodkin; it remains in print along with this newer version which I read.
I read his adult books when I was a child (along with Robert Benchley, Emily Kimbrough, and Cornelia Otis Skinner) but only discovered this, The 13 Clocks, The Great Quillow, and The Wonderful O after I became a parent.I did already love the quirky artistic style of Louis Slobodkin from The Middle Moffat and other books by Eleanor Estes.
Simont's work is wonderful, too, though...
I suppose I'd need both copies of this (and of 13Cs) to have a complete collection....Anyway, to the story itself.
I've probably read it 4-5 times so far over the years.
Many Moons by James Thurber, illustrated by Louis Slobodkin is a fairy tale about Princess Lenore, who asks for the moon when she is sick.
The concept of things being "in the eye of the beholder" is well portrayed by Thurber in this book that is a bit longer than many picture books.I like the original illustrations by Louis Slobodkin which match the story well.
The simple logic of the jester is wise indeed, as is Princess Lenore.
For ages K to 3rd, princesses, fantasy, fairy tale, space science, point of view, and James Thurber and Louis Slobodkin.
Ivory, apes, and peacocks, rubies, opals, and emeralds, black orchids, pink elephants, and blue poodles, gold bugs, scarabs, and flies in amber, hummingbirds' tongues, angels' feathers, and unicorns' horns, giants, midgets, and mermaids, frankincense, ambergris, and myrrh, troubadours, minstrels, and dancing women.
James Thurber can do no wrong.
The book tells the story of a princess who falls ill and wants the moon, but all of her father's advisors say that the moon is impossible to get, until he asks the Court Jester, who takes a more logical-to-a-child approach to the situation.
The Court Jester just goes up and asks the princess what she thinks of the new moon and she says that of course there is a new moon, because when you take something away like teeth or flowers, there are always something of the same sort to replace it.
A little princess falls ill, and the only way she will get better is if she gets the moon. The king consults his wise men- the Lord High Chamberlain, the Royal Wizard, and the Royal Mathematician. In the end, it is the Court Jester who discovers the solution by consulting the princess. This story reminds all readers that answers are sometimes found in what seem the least likely places; and the wisdom of children should never be discounted.
I love this story about a princess with a tummyache, who asks for the moon, and the jester who figures out how the king can get it for her. Way too wordy for a library storytime, this is a great lap book for parents to share with their own princesses. I prefer the illustrations by Marc Simont, even though the they aren't the ones that won the Caldecott.
The jester has an idea to ask the princess how big she thinks the moon is and what it is made of.
The king explains, and the jester decides to ask Lenore why she thinks the moon is back up in the sky.
4. I think little girls would like this book more than little boys would just because it is about a princess.
However, I think that some boys would like it since it has a king, a jester, a wizard, etc.5.
Unfortunately upon opening the pages I noticed that there was more writing to a page than she is comfortable with thus making the story longer and the font is small, which led to my correct guess that she would get bored with the book before we got to far into it.
All in all it was a decent book and maybe one for slightly older children who can read it on their own.
For younger children who need an adult to continue reading to them this isn't friendly towards them unless you can make up your own story to go along with it even though the rest of the lessons learned can be applied to life.
It is a book about a princess who asked her father to get the moon for her.
Will the princess ever get the moon?2.
3. Appropriate classroom use (subject area) (1 pt)I would use this book for the reading portion of class.4.
Individual students who might benefit from reading (1 pt)Students who love books about princesses and doing the impossible would like this book.5.
I would probably want it to be a book read alone by the student.6.
We could then discuss the perceptions each counselor has of the moon compared to the princess herself.
This is a book for children, but Amazon and their sneaky ways brought it to my attention because of my love for James Thurber.
I will say that I do not have children, nor am I a librarian or someone who regularly reads children's literature so if you are looking for advice on if this is appropriate for your child, I don't know.
I've seen some reviews saying that children won't know the word "surfeit" and they are complaining about it (the parents, not the children).
I'd venture to guess some parents might not know what the word surfeit means either.
I also know that I still love James Thurber.
The story Many Moons, by James Thurber, is an adorable story of a sick, little princess who wants the moon to help her feel better and all the trouble her father the king goes through to get her the moon. This story was awarded the Caldecott award in 1944. The illustrations in this story are beautifully done and I would recommend this book especially to kids who love pictures and drawing. I really enjoyed the illustrations in this story. With such a cute story, you definitely need some cute ill
The illustrations in this story are beautifully done and I would recommend this book especially to kids who love pictures and drawing.
I really enjoyed the illustrations in this story.
With such a cute story, you definitely need some cute illustrations to go along with it and I think Mr. Thurber did an excellent job.
Each picture shows a great summary of what is happening in the story on every page.
I highly recommend this book for any kids who might be aspiring artists to try to create masterpieces of their own in Thurber’s style.
My mother must have read this to me so many times as a child-- I didn't think I recognized it from the title or cover, but as soon as I opened the book and saw the delicate, softly colored sketches, I couldn't help but breathe a nostalgic sigh.
The illustrations in this book are a pure delight.
I love the way the artist has the images winding around the text on some pages, unfurling from the scroll depicted on the opposite page.
I love the expressive faces and body language of the characters, and the roundness (suggesting the moon) in so many of the illustrations.
I enjoyed this one more than I thought I would. The little girl and the jester were both wise in their own ways. I appreciated the way that the jester accepted the girl and her ideas on her own terms. I also enjoyed the clever use of words in the story.
właśnie takie książki należy czytać dzieciom, żeby były mądre. i dobre.
Priceless! Am really enjoying the Caldecott winners!
this was a good story of a little princces wanted the moon and got it, this book allso has lots of wisdom in it.
I read the one illustrated by Carolyn Dinan.It is a wise story about a girl who would like to own something implausible. I truly loved the character of the Court Jester, a man whose main aim is to delight his king, but unexpectedly he conceal a profound intelligence and brightness to help him.PSHE: useful for a guided reading session, to improve children's vocabulary and to contextualise it with History's topics.
I only just read this - but it is one of my favorite story/picture books.
In Many Moons a princess gets ill and her dad tells her that he will do or get anything for her to feel better.
She says there is only one thing that would make her feel better and that is the moon.
Although this book was very heartfelt, and relatable for many students who have close father-daughter relationships.
For student's who don't relate, this book could help them understand what its like to have a father that would do anything for their child.
This book allows students to understand the different cultures that parenting can share.
Allowing students to see the different cultures, can expand their thinking of what multicultural literature is.
In the story Many Moons is about a princess that becomes ill after eating too many tarts, upon being sick he father the king ask what he can do to make her feel better.
All princess Lenore asks for the moon, and her father determined to make her better asks his wise men to accomplish this task.
Without any luck in getting the moon the king vents to his court jester who has the idea to simply ask what the princess meant by the moon.
Then comes the task of hiding the real moon from the princess, only for the jester to discover that she believes it regenerates every night.
Many Moons by James Thurber and illustrated by Louis Slobodkin is a book about a princess that eats too many sweets.
Since many people said the task could not be done, but the princess says the moon is as big as her thumbnail and is made of goal.
The jester takes the princess to a royal goldsmith and he makes her a neckless with a pendant of a moon.
In the princesses opinion the moon can be in two places because it grows back.
In this book, the illustrations are very unique to look at.
Each illustrations looks like they were made with such light-handed strokes.
When Princess Lenore describes the moon to the court jester, she says it is as small as her thumbnail and is made out of gold.
Reading this book reminded me of my own father and his willingness to do whatever it took to make me happy when I was feeling sad as a child.
When the King promised his daughter, Princess Lenore, the moon, it reminded me of my dad and his incredibly selfness nature.
The King, Princess Lenore, and the court jester collectively feel sad, nervous, sick, happy, hopeful, angry, and content (plus more!), for example.
In honor of the solar eclipse, JJ and thought we’d pick a special book to celebrate, and we did so from our home library: Many Moons, written by James Thurber and illustrated by Louis Slobodkin, a clever tale of childhood innocence, hope, and wisdom.The Princess Lenore had grown very ill, so her father the King offers to bring her anything in the world to comfort her.
But the King’s clever yet kind court jester may have just the idea to bring the moon Lenore wishes for.This is sort of an odd story, but it has such a sweet, innocent and optimistic resolution, and one that involves a child being far cleverer than the adults around her, that its charm cannot be denied.
A Caldecott Medalist himself, Simont proves a noble successor to Louis Slobodkin, and his buoyant watercolors, full of poignancy and subtle merriment, more than do justice to Thurber's beloved tale of a princess who asks for the moon, and the wise jester who presents her with it.
Ages 4-8."SLJ: "PreS-Gr 3--Although the Caldecott winning edition illustrated by Louis Slobodkin (HBJ, 1943) is the one that many parents and librarians grew up with, this new full-color version by Simont has a charm of its own.
When King Daddy promises the moon, he delivers.A young princess gets sick because she eats too many raspberry tarts.
He then asks a bunch of people and they all tell him it's very far away and gigantic.
What does she think it's made out of?"It turns out she thinks it's as big as her thumbnail, and gets tangled in the branches of the tree outside, and it's made out of gold, so the jester just goes to a blacksmith and has him make a moon out of gold and puts it on a necklace for her, and she's super happy.
However, my favorite part of the story is when none of these men can grant the king's request and the common Court Jester, simply asks the princess what the moon is made of and how big it is.
I like this twist to the story because the Court Jester asks the girls what she wants, while all of the other men where literally trying to get the moon.
Overall, Many Moons, by James Thurber was an interesting children's book to read, as it takes a unique twist on a traditional fairy tale.
