https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/58962.Trunk_Music
Trunk Music is Michael Connelly's sixth novel and the fifth of those books to feature L.A. homicide detective, Harry Bosch.
It remains my favorite of Connelly's books and my favorite of all police procedurals--an inspiration to me and, I assume, to a good many other authors who write crime fiction.Harry has been serving time on an administrative leave, which resulted from actions he took in The Last Coyote.
As the senior detective, Harry is the team leader and must direct the effort to find Aliso's killer.This is Harry's first crack at a homicide in a while, and he desperately wants the case.
While this isn't my favorite of the five books I have read so far in the series, any Michael Connelly novel is miles above most others in the genre.With issues in his professional life resolved, Harry is now back working as an LAPD homicide detective.
Once again, this is a story that will not only have the drama of the actual case but also the problems Harry will face in his professional and personal life.I really enjoyed the addition of Lt. Grace Billets and look forward to seeing her more in future books.
Overall, a solid read and I look forward to continuing on with the series.
When he and his team find Tony Aliso's body in the trunk of his car, Harry fights to hold onto it instead of handing it over to the guys in the Organized Crime Investigation Division.
The twists and turns were delicious, some I saw coming and others catching me, as usual, flat footed.
The good news is that even Harry wasn't able to see some of this stuff coming either, which made the story that much more realistic.
He's been Harry for me so I'm quite leery about the performances to come.
Loved the story and the narration.
Number 5 in the Harry Bosch series and still rolling nicely along.
I probably found this to be the least exciting of the books to date.
It was a little bit too full of procedural detail and there were so many different cons going on at once I was occasionally confused.
Nevertheless Bosch used all his smarts and came out on top,as usual.
I liked his two off siders and his boss who was able to bend the rules occasionally for him.
Still a very readable book and one which I raced through.
Harry Bosch is back working homicide, and his first case involves a body left in a car trunk.
It looks like the victim was the victim of a mob hit, and he has connections in Las Vegas.
Is the case really going to be that simple?Bosch’s cases are always fun, and this book is no exception.
I was able to spot a couple of the twists coming a little early, but that was a minor complaint.
The characters are strong, both returning and new.
A face from Bosch’s past comes back into his life here, and I love his new lieutenant.Read my full review at Carstairs Considers.
I finished a book!
Life is cruel.)Anyway, I finally finished this book, and yet again, it was a solid entry into this series.
This book is the basis for the first season of Bosch on Amazon, and so, when I realized that, I think that it kind of added to the slump I was in, because I felt like I knew what was going to happen already.
I didn't like her.
I didn't like her.
I could sympathize with her, but I didn't like HER.
(hide spoiler)]Looking forward to the next installment, and wondering if Harry can go an entire investigation without a suspension.
Edgar, and Kiz are working together after a man's body is found in a trunk.Told in the first person by Harry Bosch, I found "Trunk Music" showcased a different Harry than one I am used to.
Or at least had them nosing around.The case ends up leading Harry back to Vegas and he is shocked to see his ex-lover Eleanor Wish (first appearance "The Black Echo" Harry Bosch #1).
I guess Connelly is not here for the Disney version of Vegas these days.The ending surprised the life out of me though when Harry finally lays eyes on a character he was chasing the whole book I mumble okay random coincidence.
This is #5 in the Bosch series and Harry is back in full force after being forced into involuntary leave.
We don’t get into the specifics of their personal lives so I can’t say why I like them, only that they are good detectives.
Grace Billets is Harry’s new boss.
I had my doubts about her but will most likely pick up the next book to see how the relationship continues if it does.
If it had turned out any different, I might not have considered reading the next in the series.
Oh yes, I will read the next book now.
This is my first Michael Connelly, and thus, obviously, my first Harry Bosch mystery. And, as always, I throw continuity to the wind and start somewhere in the middle! Who needs beginnings?Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Bosch is back to work in Hollywood with a new supervisor, a woman lieutenant.
Not a reflection on him, just a new strategy of teams of three.
Looks like a mob hit but the LAPD’s organized crime bureau wants nothing to do with it.
And what would a Bosch case be without the involvement of Internal Affairs?
Lots of subterfuge and misdirection as the reader is hooked on what looks to be a sure resolution only to be shocked not once but several times with startling developments.
I never saw them coming.It will be interesting to see where Bosch goes in the next book.
LAPD Homicide Detective Harry Bosch returns with a bang from another forced leave in Trunk Music.
The murder appears to be an organized crime hit and should be turned over to the Organized Crime Investigation Unit, but Harry is reluctant to do so as he has a bad feeling about this case and wants to see it through.
When OCI turns the case down, Harry calls in his team consisting of Jerry Edgar and new member Kizmin Rider and together, they roll up their sleeves and get to work.I found the first half of Trunk Music to be a little slow moving as a lot of page time was devoted to the organized crime aspect of the story.
Tony Alisio, a small-time Hollywood movie producer of notoriously bad low-budget movies, is trunk music, and LAPD homicide detective Harry Bosch has taken the case.
Unfortunately, the case runs into two major snafus for Bosch: 1) Eleanor Wish, "the one who got away", or, more appropriately, the one who got PUT away (refer back to the first Bosch novel, "The Black Echo") is back, fresh out of federal prison.
She runs into Bosch in Vegas and sparks between them are re-gnited, big-time.
Of course, she may or may not also be involved in the murder, which can only mean trouble for Bosch.
Ok I get it, this book series is great, at least it is based on this book. I had never read a Bosch book but saw them all the other night in the bookstore and went with one with an interesting title. Take a realistic cop who is never perfect, and a storyline that even though I figured out at least a quarter of the way in, is very well executed, and you have a great book.
Great story. Enjoyed the sidekick characters.
Lieutenant Grace Billets was in charge of all the homicide teams, and the fact that the solve rates were way down in Hollywood was the reason they were trialling teams of three instead of the usual two detectives.As Bosch, Edgar and Rider began the painstaking task of digging into Aliso’s life, it soon became clear he had been involved with the Mob in Las Vegas.
With the FBI involved plus law enforcement teams in Las Vegas circling the Mob, Bosch wasn’t sure who he could trust.
Continuing with the audio rereads of the Harry Bosch series. Just as good the 2nd time around. This story is the bases (in part) for the Amazon series. There were several twist and turns but Harry never takes his eyes off his mission.Highly recommend the entire series!
Goshen is a member of the mob and works for a man dubbed “Joey Marks,” for whom Aliso was laundering money.While in Vegas, Harry also happens to run into an old flame: Eleanor Wish from The Black Echo, who has since been released from prison.
After this discovery, he casually mentions to Veronica in another “interview” that Aliso was carrying a million dollars on his way back from Vegas, double what was in the briefcase that was stolen from him the night he was murdered, and that much of it was stored in his suit bag.Harry, Rider, and Edgar lie in wait near the bag, and lo and behold, who shows up to snag it…but Powers, the cop who “found” Aliso’s body.
If you're into Noir than this TV series is a must see.Connelly has a knack for writing suspenseful tales that take quite a few twists and turns before being resolved with a stellar Who-Done-It that has most readers guessing till the very end (at least in his earlier books).Heironymous (Harry) Bosch, the hero in this series, is named after a Renaissance painter who specialized in earthly sins, debauchery, fanciful and gruesome visions of hell, violent consequences from high above if not detailed looks at the tortures reserved for earthly residents.
[...]Compare that to the later books in the series where we find a Harry Bosch notably mellower in his older age, where we find endings easily guessed at, where procedure begins to trump a superb plot.
It was good & twisty.
Good characters & well played all the way through.
This should definitely be read in order.
From what I've read, that's Connelly's publishing order, not just this particular series since other series & characters interact.
Clues lead all over the place, with a number of false leads until it all comes together neatly in the end.
As the case finally comes to an end, the detective reflects:Sometimes Bosch thought of his city as some kind of vast drain that pulled all bad things toward a spot where they swirled around in deep concentration.
It was a place where it seemed the good people were often outnumbered by the bad.
It was a place that could easily produce someone like [the villain].
Too easily.I had forgotten how good a read Connelly's Bosch novels are.
"AS HE DROVE along Mulholland Drive toward the Cahuenga Pass, Bosch began to hear the music.
There's lots of interviews with Connelly and just like with Bosch, you've got to dig a bit to find out what you want to know.
In one interview Connelly mentions that Bosch continues to be an interesting character to write and that he continues to learn things about him.
Connelly also mentions that the truth of some real cases won't translate well to his fiction as his readers would never believe what really happened.
Both Bosch and Connelly are fascinating men.
This is the 5th Harry Bosch mystery and the main story arc for Season Two of Amazon's Bosch.I highly recommend reading the book before watching Season 2. The TV series does ruin the book ending with SPOILERS and the TV series does take some liberties with altering the book by having Bosch's daughter in the show while Maddy wasn't even born yet in the book.
Definitely above average for a crime mystery police procedural with a happy ending, but 2 stars for the narrator.REVIEWER’S OPINION:I was interested throughout.
I gave Black Echo barely 3 stars.AUDIOBOOK NARRATOR:Dick Hill narrated several Harry Bosch books.
Dick Hill was excellent for most of the male characters but occasionally a male character sounded oddly whiny.STORY BRIEF:Tony Aliso was found in the trunk of his car murdered in Los Angeles.
In book 1 Harry was falling in love with Eleanor, but he sent her to prison.
Another great Michael Connelly in the Harry Bosch series and fortunately I'm reading them in order, slowly but in order.
I started Connelly with Mickey Haller, The Lincoln Lawyer, and I really enjoy the rag-tag lawyer.
After I read the third book, I started on the Bosch series in part because he was mentioned and played a part in the Haller series and I knew I was coming to an end of those.
However, by this, book #5, I've grown to like him more and more with each book.
My life was a bit boring before I found Michael Connelly, Harry and Mickey.
Trunk Music by Michael Connelly is the 5th book in the Harry Bosch series.
After being demoted to burglary, Harry returns to the homicide division and his first case is the shooting of a small time film producer found dead in the trunk of his rolls royce.
He is discovered to have ties to the mob and Las Vegas, where harry comes across his ex-girlfriend who we met in the first book, Elenor Wish.
Another great book in this series with just what we have come to expect.
Lots of twists and plenty of obstacles for Harry to overcome, with everything coming together nicely at the end.
As always, a well-written novel that’s hard to put down... even when you know where things are going. Tough to review a book with a super familiar story line that was mostly appropriated by the TV series based on my fave LA detective— Bosch. It was the same and yet not the same as the TV series liberally borrows its main storylines from the books— but never as written. That said, still a great Bosch book!!
Trunk music by Michael Connelly is well written and moves at a fast clip. It's typical Connelly fare with good guy versus bad guy. Some of the good guys are bad and some bad guys are good.This book involves more of the actor - Bosch's love life. He keeps ahead of internal affairs while balancing the Feds and the police.
This one was enjoyable but the plot was not quite as good as the prior books. I do enjoy the way that we follow Harry along as he solves the crime rather than it being one of those mystery stories where they try to surprise you with who the killer is.
This is another excellent read in the Harry Bosch series. From the beginning through to the surprising climax, there are hooks and interesting bits that make the reader keep turning the page. Don't miss this book.
Twisted and twisted again, very nicely. Really liked this one. The reversals and surprises were awfully well done. I really think Raymond Chandler smiled on it.
