https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/81010.The_Velvet_Room
I remember running my hands across a shelf of books in the library, it was away from the area that i normally looked.
I wanted to find something different and i had pulled out a bright yellow book, but then beside it was a faded copy of The Velvet Room and i took that instead.
I'm glad i did, its a wonderful book.
It's the type of book that even if you can't remember it exactly you'll never forget the feeling it gave you.
I don't own it but i can go back to that musty magical room anytime i want.
It's maybe a different story when reading it through adult eyes but the basic reasons I loved it at 10 are still there~ a good story about a family going through a rough time, a young girl about the age I was when I first read it who loves books and reading as I did then and now, who is trying to adjust to a new life with her family and the Velvet Room itself~ a turret window that can be closed in by velvet curtains, something I wanted then and still want now.

There are many elements to this story that we loved, the old house, the friendships between very different people, Bridget who has a family of animals, an old diary, piano playing, a secret passage...
the list goes on.We loved the idea of The Velvet Room, a room in a tower, with huge windows, window seats and books and total privacy and seclusion, in fact nobody even knows you're there.
No wonder Robin (view spoiler)[ found this paradise, living as she did in a small cabin and even sharing a bed with her sister.
Who wouldn't crave some privacy and solitude ?
Robin, who lived with pride and shame at the same time because of her family's nomad lifestyle; her father who does his best to support his family and give them what he thinks they need, not what they want; Gwen, a rich girl we expect to be cruel and snobbish, but who turns out to be a genuine friend; the "witch" who befriends Robin and changes her family's fortunes.I used to want to go to the Velvet Room and lie on the window seats and read to my heart's content.
My copy of the book had a pinkish drawing of the inside of the velvet room, and Robin was kneeling on the window seat cushion looking out the window.

Difficult to identify exactly WHAT made it so important because, of course, you were young and now you have all this "perspective" on things.I suspect what touched me about this book then - and probably about her others - was the longing for "home", a special, stable and safe place.
Robin had a special relationship with her father, too, and while I probably didn't identify that then, its possibly another element that spoke to me.From the perspective of 42, I still feel that longing for home and felt it reading this again.
This is the only book that I have kept with me since I was a kid—it went to college with me, my first apartment, made the trip out west and is still on my shelf as I write this. I read it until it started to fall apart, and I had to repair the binding (with elmer's glue, don't tell Elizabeth). I haven't read it in years, but I like knowing I have the option. It has always been one of my favorites and led me to my favorite (as a child) author, Zilpha Keatley Snyder.
The story is about a little girl living on a plantation that discovers an abandoned house that has a room covered in velvet with shelves and shelves of old books, which is a sweet discovery for the little girl.
As a young girl myself who loved reading, this book seemed to be after my own heart.
Every page was as I remembered it, as was the velvet room.
We all have books that we remember fondly from our childhood, and sometimes it feels really good to curl up on the couch and re-enter that world that brought us such joy so many years ago.
Very enjoyable Depression era story of a non-Okie family who nevertheless are forced to take to the road and live as migrant workers in their Model T after the father becomes ill and they lose everything.
As the book opens, they are settling in a two room shack along the coast of California.
Picking and pitting fruit keep the Williams family fed, but with the father's health still in a precarious state, the hard life of farm laborer is hardly optimal.
Others in the class sneered that it was a 'girl's book' but I didn't care.
Once I saw that evocative cover and read the story summar I knew I would love it.
It's very worn, not just from my reading but from the years my schoolteacher sister borrowed it so she could pass it around her students.The story is quite small, girl sneaks off to a secret room, her family struggles with poverty, and yet the tale has always felt epic to me.
Even as I write this review I'm smiling because I remember what the book taught me - that life isn't perfect but that running away from our problems is never a long term solution.
It was amazing how some of the points made by the characters in the book are just exactly how I feel about things still.
255) Also "Before Robin noticed that her candle was burning low, she had discovered some pretty amazing things.
Tonight, for the first time, she understood what the Velvet Room really was, and maybe even more important, what it wasn't and never could be.
What it really was, was just what you could see by the candle's light: a beautiful room full of lovely old things.
I know I read all or part of this book in about middle school, because whole phrases and situations resonated when I re-read it lately.
The velvet lined room full of treasures was my idea of heaven in those days.In the re-reading, I didn't remember much of the last third of the book, and I have to say that now the "idyllic" ending rings hollow; there's such a thing as wish-fulfillment but it just didn't work for the adult me.
Maybe I bailed on it as a young person because of that, though in those days it was practically a crime in my eyes not to finish a book you had started.
Really enjoyed this. Fabulous old house! Old family mystery! Girl who loves to read!But only 3 stars because I saw all of the plot twists a mile away. Still a delightful read and a reminder of how much I enjoyed ZKS as a kid (now if I can just remember the name of the ZKS book I read over and over. . .)
I read this when I was a kid, and was enchanted with the idea of sneaking into a seldom-used portion of someone's house. I should read this again...
Where has this book been all my life?
Her discovery that they are more important than places and things really relates to me with my love of houses, books, settings like the Velvet Room.
I like the idea that the mere thought of the Velvet Room gives Robin comfort, indicating that we can have a 'room' inside us that gives peace and joy without actually having to slip away alone."Belonging to a place isn't nearly as necessary as belonging to people you love and who love and need you.
A few years earlier, Robin's family lost nearly everything thanks to the Depression and, since, have become traveling workers, moving from seasonal job to seasonal job and never establishing the roots Robin so desperately needs.
Yes, there's new friendships with the Ranch owner's daughter and with a mysterious elderly woman who lives near the "village." But mostly there's Las Palmeras House, a deserted, boarded-up, wreck of a mansion that called to Robin from the first moment she saw it.
After discovering a secret passage into the old house, Robin makes an amazing and incredible discovery...
A discovery that becomes a near obsession...
This is one of those books that I read as a child and held dear in my memories although I was never quite sure why.
Last week, I decided to pick it up.
I was afraid the book would be as dear after reading it as an adult, but as you can tell by the 5 stars, that was not the case.
This book is as magical to me now as it was when I was ten.
It is a great book - one that would still be good for tweens today.
I would like it if some publisher picked it up for reprint with an attracitve cover...
Still, and always, my favorite Zilpha Keatley Snyder book.
It's also my favorite Dust Bowl novel, even though Robin is adamant that she and her family members are not Okies.
When I first stumbled upon this in my elementary school media center, I couldn't believe my luck in finding a book with an historical setting, a romantic mystery, and a gorgeous, velvet-clad room with a tower and overflowing book shelves.
Along with this winning combination of ingredients, ZKS also gives Robin some difficult decisions and offers a lesson in selfishness:"I've never worried about the things Theda wants.
You're the one who worries me.
You're the real wanter in this family."

I probably would have loved this book as a child. Robin's family has hit hard times during the dust bowl. Her father has been ill and lost his job leaving the family to wander around in their Model-T looking for work. Things seem to look up when they find a place picking fruit at the Las Palmeras ranch though the physical labor is hard on their father. The kids find some stability, including school, and friends and Robin find a special secret place she comes to love - the velvet room.
An acquaintance recently asked for recommendations for a young relative. I was thinking back to what I was reading around the age range she specified, and remembered this. Upon re-read: I can see why I liked it. Some aspects of it are a bit troubling, though, like the perception of Dust Bowl refugees. (Not going into detail because I'm trying to avoid spoilers.Incidentally, the edition I read has this cover, but it was first published in 1965.
This was a sweet and surprisingly thought-provoking book that I'll have to remember to find for Talia when she's older. There are a lot of ideas to explore - from being a "wanter" even if you don't actually ask for a lot out loud, to learning what is truly important in life, and self-reflection to determine our motives for actions and decisions. Pretty heady stuff for middle-grade fiction, but presented well for young readers. I could see this starting a lot of fascinating conversations.
For some reason I skipped this when I was a kid, while reading many other Zilpha Keatley Snyder books over and over. I would have loved it then, and it was really enjoyable now, even when some of it might seem a little formulaic or predictable. The 1930s California setting is lovely.
This little treasure has traveled through 7 moves with me. I will die owning my battered copy. 34 years after I first read it and it still sticks to my ribs. If you don't like it, we simply cannot be friends
I read this book as a youngster and really enjoyed it. A good friend loaned me her copy and I just read it again. I still love it! It's jr. high level reading, but sometimes I like to "go back." What can I say? I love good children's books!
Recently re-read.
Lovely book - about a young girl finding a haven in the library of a deserted mansion.
Nice old fashioned middle grade book - takes place in Central Valley California during the depression. I enjoyed the characters and was happily surprised by some of them.
