https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7331.Letters_from_Father_Christmas
Tolkien must have been an excellent farther to his children.
To put so much thought and effort into the making of these letters speaks of nothing but devotion.
It’s quite revealing too.
It’s like a little peek into the family life of the Tolkien’s, one which shows the patriarch as a kindly gentleman that he no doubt was.
This is a great little book.
I do recommend this edition in particular because it shows the original print along with a text version.
This means it can be read easily because some of the originals are quite dense.
[image error]A lovely collection of illustrated letters from Father Christmas ("aided" by JRRT) to Tolkien's children.
There are similarities with Mervyn Peake's Letters from a Lost Uncle, which I reviewed HERE.A Bonding Book that Made a Tolkienite (two of us, actually)I love this because it prompted "Father Christmas" to write similar letters to my own son over several years and because it was instrumental in making my child a devoted Tolkien fan.
Eventually, Father Christmas said that most Roman things were ruins now, so he could just use regular Lego as ruins!When my son turned 18, I asked if he still wanted a Father Christmas stocking, but he said he'd rather just have regular presents.
This is what I wish Christmas were still about: not spending £50 on cards, or buying a PS4 and an XBOX One for your child because they want both of them, but loving your family through thick and thin, and war, and using Father Christmas as a catalyst for teaching young children the importance of giving as well as receiving and the value of money.Each letter was hand-written by Tolkien in a shaky script to denote Father Christmas's advanced years, but his drawings were utterly superb.
3.5 When I first started reading this I thought what a fantastic idea, one I wish I has thought of when my children were young. Soon though I was caught up in the letters, waiting for the further adventures of polar bear and the cubs, the goblins and the old Ancient bear as well as the happenings on the North Pole. We can tell as the children age and quit believing in Santa as well as insights to what is happening in the rest of the world. Loved the colored pictures too.Clever, clever, Tolkien. Lucky, lucky children.
Ein Buch, von dem man sich wünscht, es würde niemals enden ♡
Lep trud s Tolkinove strane spram njegovo četvoro potomaka... :) Zbirka pisama koja im je on pisao u ime Deda-Mraza :))))Prvi put će biti objavljena na srpskom u izdanju Publik praktikuma, za Beogradski sajam...
A collection of letters written by Nicholas Christmas to the Tolkien children, this book is filled with the Christmas spirit and all the lovely stories that take place each year at the North Pole.
The letters, penned in the 1920s and 30s, introduce the children to North Polar Bear and his helpful role as Father Christmas’ assistant in the preparation for the great Christmas delivery.
The hand-drawn additions to the letters, done by Tolkien himself, add another layer of beauty to these letters, warming the hearts of the children who were sure to find them in the post close to Christmas, as well as the reader, who might marvel in the detail offered.
This is a beautiful book which contains all the letters JRRRRRRRRR Tolkien wrote to his children in the guise of Father Christmas from the first to his eldest son in 1920 right through to the last one he wrote to his only daughter in 1943.
My father, good methodist that he is, nobly quaffed it down no doubt and the carrot always had a couple of nibbles from it come Christmas Day. My parents always explained its not having been wholly eaten by the simple story that if the reindeer ate everything that was left out for them they would be too heavy to fly.
In 1920 the Tolkien children started receiving letters from Father Nicholas Christmas.
In the letters he starts to tell his children the stories and events of that year, and what he has done.
Each letter came with some sort of drawing, showing the houses, or where the toys are made and there were little touches like the envelopes being dusted with snow.Not only does this show the talent and imagination of Tolkien, but the affection that he had for his children.
The part that really makes this book shine for me though, is the reproductions of the actual letter and envelopes which are full of colour and detail and Christmas magic.
// Re-Read 2017 // OKAY SO IT'S ADORABLE. And it's written by Tolkien.That's all you need to know. ;)///I loved this so much! *hugs book* It's definitely the best Christmas book I've read--and it will for sure be something I reread again at Christmastime. ^_^ Honestly, it reminds me so much of The Hobbit, purely because of the fun characters and humor. An instant Christmas favorite. <3
A lovely read, I would have loved to be one of Tolkien's kids & leading an extensive correspondence with St. Nick. (Sorry Dad, I love you & you are the top and the uncontested & uncrowned King of DIY-land, but you would have never written/drawn me letters pretending to be Father Christmas!!! :)
Für mich gehört dieses Buch zur zauberhaftesten Weihnachtslektüre. Obwohl J.R.R. Tolkien über zwanzig Jahre lang zu jedem Weihnachtsfeste an seine Kinder, getarnt als Weihnachtsmann schrieb, fesseln mich seine Abenteuer und die des Polarbären auch als erwachsene Leserin. Welche Mühe und Zeit er investierte, um seine Geschichten zu illustrieren und seine Handschrift alt und krakelig aussehen zu lassen, finde ich rührend. Wer wünscht sich nicht einen solchen einfallsreichen Vater und solche liebenswerte Post???
What an interesting person Mr. J.R.R. Tolkien was.
It's hard to give this anything less than 5 stars just based on the nature of this one.It's comprised of a series of letters Tolkien wrote to his children "from Santa." (A period of over 20 years!) He creates a very magical and well thought out North Pole, complete with Santa Claus, his helper Polar Bear, his elf secretary and more.
And not just letters, but wonderful drawings and calligraphy, including an entire new alphabet, as Tolkien was so fond of creating.I can only imagine how much the children looked forward to these letters at Christmas, as even now I find them fascinating.
Quite charming collection of letters Tolkien wrote ummm I mean Nicholas Christmas wrote to Tolkien's children during the 1930s. I think this would be best enjoyed with a cup of eggnog, a fireside, a hardback copy to look at the illustrations, and the audio copy to follow along with the reader.
Here we have a Father Christmas who is kind and thoughtful yet who also fends off marauding goblins (who tend to steal Christmas presents!) and who is always shaking his head and cleaning up the mess made by his good-natured but trouble-making helper, the North Pole Bear.
We have a variety of interesting elves and gonomes, and even snowmen and the children of snowmen--and Cave Bears and the nephews of the North Pole Bear (who are pint-sized but full of trouble, too!) Why, did you know Father Christmas has a switch that turns on the Aurora Borealis?
What fun it must have been to be a child of Tolkien. The next best thing, in my opinion, to receiving an annual letter from Father Christmas would have been to have had a parent read this book aloud every Christmas. The reader is immersed in the world of the North Pole, complete with colourful drawings of Polar Bear, the Red and Green Gnomes, and the dreaded Goblins. What a delight! A great little book to ignite the Christmas Spirit of young and old!
Lovely book! If I would've gotten letters like these from Santa, I would've never stopped believing as a kid. So interesting to see the amount of children he writes for diminish as they grow older.
No creo que me haya leido un libro de temática navideña más bonito que este. Desprende magia y ternura, no hago más que imaginarme las caras de los hijos de Tolkien cada vez que recibían las cartas con esas historias tan entrañables y graciosas y esos dibujos tan preciosos.Lo mejor el Oso Polar y sus tropelías :DSuper recomendable. Navideño 100%
As part of my 2017 challenge, I'm am reading mostly books recommended or given a 5 star rating from my friends.My friend, Mary Horton, gave this book a five star rating.A sweet book, what a charming gift Tolkien gave to his children! A wonderful legacy. I was especially impressed by Tolkien's beautiful handwriting and lively illustrations.
"So, my dears, I hope you will be happy this Christmas and not quarrel, and will have some good games with your Railway all together. Don’t forget old Father Christmas, when you light your tree." Merry Christmas! Not many other books carry that amount of pure and unrestricted love in their words. Letters from Father Christmas is a collection of letters that J.R.R. Tolkien wrote to his children over the course of twenty years from when his oldest son John turned three until the youngest member o
Letters from Father Christmas is a collection of letters that J.R.R. Tolkien wrote to his children over the course of twenty years from when his oldest son John turned three until the youngest member of his family, his daughter Priscilla, was fourteen years old.
Sometimes Father Christmas would address the children in his neat handwriting, other times it would be his helpers like the Polar Bear with his chunky and clumsy words.
The stories that Tolkien tells his children are just as lovely though.
This book kept making me think how much Tolkien must have loved his children.
En la casa se hablaba de él; en los centros comerciales, en la televisión, en el arbolito él estaba, yo le escribí mi primer par de cartas, pero hubo un momento, que no puedo definir con exactitud, en que me dijeron que el niño Dios traía los regalos, no me dieron mayores explicaciones al respecto, y yo quedé sin entender cómo era que el Niño Dios era el que traía los regalos, cuando el que estaba en todas partes era Papa Noel (es que nosotros no teníamos pesebre), pero es que tampoco sabía mayor cosa de él; entonces, yo trataba de buscar información en las ilustraciones de los diferentes motivos del papel regalo, en los dibujos en las tarjetas, y que ilusión me producía saber algo de él, como que vivía en la nieve, tenía renos, una casa de madera y siempre era de noche, pero la noche no era oscura.
Such a delightful book!
I had to keep myself from smiling the whole time.Tolkien's imagination and creativity knows no boundaries.
A neat envelope, stamp included.The letters got more elaborate over the years, a swirly here, a curly there.And most of the letters had a colorful drawing included.The letters tell the story of Father Christmas and the happenings and antics of him and his friends, helpers and enemies.
Polar Bear knows how to kick some Goblin ass.
His nephews Paksu and Valkotukka are mischievous fat-tummied polar-cubs.
Red Gnomes, elves and many more make an appearance too.Who would've thought that life at the North Pole was so exciting?
This is a wonderful collection of letters and beautiful drawings!Because this is a non-fiction book (in some way or another), I don't feel like I'm in the position to judge every aspect of the letters, but I definitely enjoyed reading every single one of them.The little stories that are told are simply lovely and also a lot of fun. I laughed quite a bit throughout the book.
ADORABLE! <333 I think reading this may become an annual Christmas tradition.
We notice them growing up throughout the span of 23 years in which Tolkien wrote them these Father Christmas letters.
We notice how the eldest no longer believes in Father Christmas, no longer puts up his stockings and no longer responds to F.C.'s letters.
These moments of vulnerability touched me the most.When the last letter came around in 1943, the year Tolkien's youngest child Priscilla forgot to write to Father Christmas because she no longer believed in him, I cried so so so much.
I had a hard time not reading it at that time.
So last night after the Grandsons went to bed, I decided to dust the book off and sit and enjoy, and enjoy I did.To think a parent went to the trouble to write letters from Santa through the years to explain why some years the stocking were not stuffed full, makes my heart warm and fuzzy.
The man from the moon fell out of the sky, Polar Bear his loveable but always causing unintended troubles for Father Christmas, and the Gobblins that try to ruin Christmas.The stories are fun and lighthearted and detailed by the drawings.
A very enjoyable read.(2018) Even the second time around!
4.5 StarsSo adorable.I could see this being read yearly as a family tradition. It was funny and sweet and imaginative. The fact that he spent so much time and effort on these letters to his children is very touching.
Además de tener la transcripción de todas las cartas de Tolkien, también las tiene escaneadas a todo color, junto con los dibujos y los sobres y de una forma qu eno parece un escaneo, sino que estás leyendo una carta original.
Esta recopilación me ha emocionado, en ella tenemos todas las cartas que Tolkien escribió a sus hijos cómo "Father Christmas" o Papa Noel y son una auténtica maravilla.
Finalmente las cartas sólo van dirigidas a su hija menor Priscilla y en la última se despide de ella de una forma muy emotiva.
Beautiful illustrations and letters from Father Christmas to Tolkien's children. Tolkien may have helped Father Christmas with this, and if he did he did a really good job. Not often is someone good at writing and illustrating combined. I love the illustration of the northern lights on the cover. I've wanted to get this copy for some time now and saw it in our favourite second hand book shop, lit up at night on the way to a christmas tree festival. Lovely find.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
