https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/438289.The_Devil_in_Massachusetts
In truth, this book is a near-failure.Historically it sucks, and it reeks of the sense of postmodern superiority often found in books written by social scientists.Apparently, Ms. Starkey "...applies modern psychiatric knowledge to the witchcraft hysteria," yet that psychiatric element absolutely ruins and undoes any of the actual historical claims from the primary sources which she did cite.
Problem is, she takes an unnecessary and excessive amount of "creative license" and over-characterizes the main players.
However I would NOT recommend this as an actual textbook or history book per se.YMMV.PMZ
This book is one of the best bits of evidence I can think of, which shows how people rarely need religion to behave well; but equally, how they can use it to behave poorly.
This historical book reads much like a novel; and presents an interesting interpretation of the Puritanical motivations behind the infamous Witch trials.
Many innocent people suffered needlessly because of uncompromising faith; a faith that would go so far as to make reason a sin and logic evidence of witchery.
I think everyone should read this.
I still have a fair amount of research to prove that, but the possibility got me interested in learning more about the trials and what happened.Starkey's book is a pretty quick overview of the events though he doesn't limit himself to pure history and tries to "get inside the people's heads." He also claims he doesn't want to judge the actions of the people but that doesn't seem to stop him from judging the people themselves.
I had expected to find that Salem Village was an isolated, superstitious place where actions like this could happen.
So are teenage girls.
Starkey has taken great care not to fabricate action or dialogue in order to add drama to her tale; she hardly needs to.
She has copied entire sections of dialogue from court reports and detailed diaries of eyewitnesses to the trials.Starkey also claims in her introduction that she has tried to apply some 'modern psychology' to the major players in the conflict, but I saw little evidence of that.
There was definitely some borderline personality disorder among the 'afflicted girls,' most notably Abigail Williams.Overall, an engaging and informative non-fiction work.
A bit dated, especially when it comes to the psychology ("hysteria"), but this is the Salem story in very readable journalese.
One plus of this edition: the cover is terrific, with its spooky illustration of the devil (by Tomi Ungerer).One negative of this edition: the Time Inc. Reading Program books look and feel is horrible--they have lousy bindings, they smell like dirty playing cards (thank you, Plastic Coating Corporation of Holyoke, Massachusetts), and they crack and fall apart after one reading.
If they didn't publish so much good stuff, I wouldn't have them in my house.
An older book with an older writing style that was sometimes hard to get through. There were times I had to read re-read a line because I wasn't sure it was her writing or words from history. Even so, it was a thoroughly researched and credible piece of work. I can't speak to any inaccuracies, but it was interesting to get to the real story behind the legend of the Salem Witch Trials.
It is not without its flaws of course, and the prose could be quite irritating at times, but it was still interesting and provided a solid overview of the events as they occurred,Reading the events clearly laid out by Starkey will help any reader navigate the supposed complexity of the situation.
This is one of the main flaws with the book, as the back cover states the author, "...takes dialogue from actual trial records but applies modern psychiatric knowledge to the witchcraft hysteria." As I mentioned above, the text 'shows its age', as it was published in 1949.
If you're interested in the Salem Witch Trials and have not read Starkey's book, then I highly recommend it. She takes the events of the trials and weaves them into a narrative, so much so that this is more like reading a novel. If you're researching the trials, she does have a list of the primary and secondary sources she used for reference at the end of the book.
A woman I had dated introduced me to her best friend, an adult college student who was particularly involved in a study of the witch craze. As is often the case, her interest got me interested enough to do some reading on the subject, specifically this book and the one by Kai Erikson. Both were, as I recall, good reads.
I liked this book a lot, I really enjoyed how the Author separated the people that were involved with The Witch Trials and what they're rolls were in it. What a sad but fascinating part of our New England history.
Incredibly informative and an entertaining read. So many myths regarding the Salem trials... Was nice getting to know what actually occurred. Differs greatly from the trials that had occurred in Europe, which I think is where the confusion spawns from. Definitely recommend it!
Great historical account of the Salem Witch Trials, but very hard to keep track of all the individual characters. Hard to believe that people could be so naive as to believe everything a group of young girls said.
Fifty additional years of research will inevitably alter the record.
And yes, by virtue of the same fifty years of additional work, certain of Marion Starkey's interpretations (by no means all) are now generally considered to be superseded.All that admitted, what a gem this book is!
The facts of the story are gripping in themselves, of course, and when presented with Starkey's novelistic and dramatic flair, the result is informative, thought-provoking, and exceptionally moving.
Any budding historian or novelist would do well to study her work here most carefully -- for example, the sheer brilliancy of her chapter endings.
I selected this book because it has been a popular subject for many years and I wanted to know more about it.
Early in the book I was sorry I chose it because of the horror, but was compelled to finish.When religion/ideology meet ignorance, bad things happen.
When combined with hysteria, terrible things happen.
We have recorded and witnessed many like events before and since this time, late in the 17th century.
Example are the French Revolution, PolPot in Cambodia, Communism, Nazism and never more than we are witnessing in the world today.
Her theory is that the teen-aged girls who were essentially in charge of accusing the witches were suffering from hysteria brought about by the repressive nature of the Puritan society in which they lived.
It’s certainly plausible that the people of three centuries ago suffered just as much from the illness of “look-at-me-itis” (as I like to call it) as the humans of today.As you’re reading through Ms. Starkey’s history, it becomes apparent that the witchcraft hysteria that so rapidly engulfed the community did not really come about because the people were overly superstitious or inclined to belief in demons and witches.
Excellent book. A compelling read. Starkey knows her primary sources well, and often allows them to speak for themselves. While she can be "wicked" funny (in the modern Massachusetts sense of "wicked"), when she offers judgments, she is quite sober. She does hold some of the actions up to ridicule, but is wiling to offer exculpatory evidence where she thinks it is warranted.
This book was very hard to read, the writing style just did not keep my connected. I am interested in reading about the Salem Witch trials, but will have to read another and different book. I could not finish the book.
A fantastic treatment of the time period and its associated events.
Far too much embellishment and conjecture, when combined with a lack of references, made the study barely usable.
I loved the way Starkey wove the facts of the Salem Witch Trials into a seamless narrative, so much so that it was more like reading a novel. While other witch hunt books give you the facts of the events, Starkey's books give you a feel for them. If you're studying the Salem Witch Trials as I am, she has a detailed bibliography at the end with both primary and secondary sources.
Starkey's The Devil in Massachusetts sets this blemish in American history against a starkly (pun, anyone?) white background, forcing us to look it in the eye for the first time and consider the humanity of the situation beyond just the facts.
For the first time, Starkey points out to us the social and legal connotations of these events, and we wonder more and more how an emerging world could allow something like this to happen eight years before the 18th century began.
Starkey explores this question: why is this event then so significant?Obviously, as this book was written 64 years ago, the language is a bit dated.
Starkey claims to be applying 'modern psychiatric knowledge' to the behaviour of the afflicted girls (adults were also involved, though she seems to frequently forget this), but that does not stop her from labelling Abigail Williams (a child of 11 or 12 at the time and not the teenage temptress conjured by Arthur Miller in 'The Crucible' - though from reading this it seems Miller did draw a lot of his take on Salem from this) as having 'a bold spirit' with a fresh complexion.
Puritans. Good grief.
The reason that the trials in Salem even occurred was because practicing witchcraft is forbidden in their religion.
The novel reveals why the people were so quick to believe so many people were witches, and it is narrated throughout the story as well.I personally did not like this book.
The book is similar to Six Women of Salem: The Untold Story of the Accused and Their Accusers in the Salem Witch Trials by Marilynne K.
The book mentioned was also about the Salem Witch Trials.
She followed up, too--didn't just stop with the first witch hanged but kept the story moving until the close.
Well...there's never really a "close" to history, but you know what I mean.
So I expected a lot more psychology than I got--and what I got, was darn little.
The book was published in 1949 so I didn't hope for a modern-day analysis, but I still expected her to explain terms like "hysteria" using the interpretation of the day.
He'd talk about the limitations in the lives of young girls in that era, but seldom give the details that would make us understand just how god-awful boring they were.
Starkey sets a tone that eventually causes the reader to feel the real seriousness and frustration resulting from what happened in Salem, showing us that, one, we have evolved somewhat, thank goodness, but two, it was no production equal to the fun of a scary movie.
When you realize this portion of the truth about the behavior of the girls who initiated the accusations of 1692, the attitudes and behaviors of the court judges and the murders of about 20 real citizens in four months, it may leave you feeling so empathetic that the tone of the book stays with you after the final page.
Originally published in 1949, this "modern enquiry" into the Salem Witch Trials attempts to explore the psychology of the people involved.
I think someone with a modern psychology background would have a lot more to say about the young girls who were the accusers, but Starkey's interpretation doesn't bog the story down.
Starkey does a good job painting a picture of what Puritan life was like during the Salem witch hunt hysteria in 1692.
Yesterday "witch" was replaced by "Communist." Today it's "immigrant" or "terrorist." It's very depressing to see how easily fear-mongering irrationality can win out over logic and compassion.
But the Rev. Increase Mather and his son Rev. Cotton Mather did not have the humility to to apologize or express any remorse for their public support of the witchcraft trials and hangings.
Often the girls had heard of or met the accused until the day of the "trial".
The girls were brought in and the accused was pointed out to them.
The girls always immediately declared the person to be a witch, and the judge would sentence them to be hanged.
The sheer magnitude of this cleansing of the New England Christian flock is still appalling.
If one really wants to learn about the infamous Salem witch trials this is the place to start.
This gives a thorough accounting of the witch trials that took place in Salem Village(present day Danvers, Massachusetts) in colonial Massachusetts in 1692-1693.
Many accused witches were only spare lives if they repented and confessed.
In the end nineteen men and women were hanged, one was crushed by stone trying to get to talk and seven more died awaiting trial in prison.The trials ended as more sensible voices were heard and remaining accused were eventually set free.
The Devil in Massachusetts by Marion Lena Starkey is a book about the Salem Witch Trials through a psychological perspective.
The author's purpose in writing this book is to inform us about the motives and thoughts of the human mind through the witch trials.
The book is written very informatively as well as dramatically, although it was pretty hard to read sometimes and I find myself lost as well.
I am pretty in to supernatural books and events and I love the mystery and wonder behind it.
However, although informative, putting psychological information behind this book kinda took away some of that wonder and mystery away from the witch trials itself.
