https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11530400-the-mound
Written by H.P. Lovecraft at the request of Zealia Bishop The main premise she gave him was: "There is an Indian mound near here, which is haunted by a headless ghost.
There is a mound near Binger where a ghost of a warrior appears during the day and a headless woman during the night.
The greater part of The Mound is Zamacona's account of the world called K’nyan, its inhabitants and weird and terrible way they lived.
All that and more.I was never worried about our main narrator because there is a lot of foreshadowing that reveals he lived to tell this story.
The Mound is probably the least acclaimed and least known novella by H.P. Lovecraft, written in collaboration with Zealia Bishop, and published only posthumously in 1940.
There were some rather unexpected elements of body mutilation which felt almost Barkerish, but overall the novella was not very exciting, and felt like a pulpy and less dramatic recycled version of other Lovercraft's works.
The audiobook is so relaxing. It sounds like a historian wrote some LOL fanfic, aggravated by the insistent use of 'Tulu versus Cthulhu. I liked it better on paper. Memo to self: no need to ever read again. :)
The narrative is constantly stopped short with 'I cannot bear to describe what I have seen', and just telling us something is too awful to imagine does not automatically make it bloody scary.-A dark world/cult that's been there for millenia: take a shrugging shot.
Yes, it's that cliche, but good God does Lovecraft lovingly flesh it out, creating a vast subterranium realm of sadistic decadence, feverish cults, slaves and monstrous science; an Eldritch version of Caligula's Rome.
A long, but decently dark Lovecraft tale.
This started off as a promising tale, but at some point it divulged into two hours of rambling about utopias and ancient civilizations. Normally, I wouldn’t have a problem with this in a Lovecraft story, but in this tale there was no sense of threat or danger.It just felt like a scholar reading a history book for a couple of hours and honestly, I felt myself to be pretty bored through most of it. Still had some decent moments, but probably my least favorite novella from Lovecraft.
This is a sprawling rambling mess of Native American mythology, folkloric exploration, ghost stories, proto-Cthulhu Mythos concepts and sci-fi type meanderings of alien races living beneath America.Apparently this is an edited version by August Derleth so I can only imagine what a vast confusing mass the original text must have been.Definitely not Lovecraft’s best moment, this.
Es un relato anterior a "En las montañas de la locura" y ya se forjaban las primeras descripciones detalladas sobre civilizaciones (sean terrestres o extraterrestres) que habitaron en la Tierra eones atrás. Y cómo no, el final es apabullante, con ese toque trágico bebido de William Shakespeare y, a su vez, de los autores de las Antigua Grecia. <3
The story begins very strongly, with a plot that's full of true terror. Then, suddenly, it turns into a bizarre version of 'Journey to the Center of Earth', and the horror gets washed away by the sci-fi elements altogether.
A good story though a bit weird even for Lovecraft. Confusing with lots of mentions of strange names with no real explanation tied to it.
Rated this 3 stars mostly due to my amusement over the mixture of fantasy and SF elements.
The K'nyan are the alien ancestors of humanity, with "atomic flashlights" and "disintegration" rays.
Also, some of the story is a summary of another manuscript, written by a Catholic follower of Coronado, who was too devout to describe certain details.
Since Lovecraft just usually says things are indescribable, or too horrible to be described, it was entertaining that there was an in-universe excuse for certain things not being described.Otherwise, fairly routine Lovecraft.
Horrifying text.
More horrifying exploration.
Well wasn't this a pleasant little surprise. I'd never run across this story before and damned if it isn't one of Lovecraft's best. A creepy little story with some really wild ideas and imagery.Highly recommended.
Perhaps the best in the Lovecraft-bishop trilogy, though I have a soft-corner for "Medusa's Coil"...."the horror that had descended from the stars when the earth was young"
"I held a written key to unknown elder worlds and abysses beyond time."I had somehow missed this one. Its good.
This one is particularly captivating. It's not often that I'm actually eager to get to the next page, but this one resonated somehow.
6/10
Only the tribesmen on the reservation, and thoughtful old-timers like Grandma Compton, remembered the overtones of unholy vistas and deep cosmic menace which clustered around the ravings of those who had come back changed and shattered.I have read this novella before, but for this re-read I listened to the audiobook narrated by Jim Campanella.The story concerns an academic who comes to Binger, Oklahoma to investigate an old mound and the ghosts who haunt it.
He soon finds that there is something real behind the ghost storie, as the ghosts can be seen through binoculars, and although many of the people who have investigated the mound over the past 40 or so years have come back unscathed, others have disappeared completely or come back strangely changed.
Is it possible to kill a story with too much world building?'The Mound' is a prime example that yes, yes you can.Ghost written for another author by Lovecraft and topping at just short of 29,000 words, 'The Mound' details a civilization that exists underground and is one of his longer works.
Even at the time this story was written, the horror presented lacks the punch Lovecraft usually instills at the climax.Still, in the end, 'The Mound' does do some amazing things right.
There are certain details about the society's slow decline that are horrific in their very nature and decadence, and would have been more so at the time of Lovecraft's writing.
Although there's not much of a story in this story, I thought this largely unknown novella (that he ghostwrote for Zealia Bishop) was pretty great!
It's archetypical latter-day Lovecraft with a Native American flavor, replete with all the uncomfortable classism/racism we've come to expect from the man.
I can't say it's particularly well written by Lovecraft standards, but the ideas are fantastic; it'd make a really great basis for a screenplay if you take a lot of liberties with the frame story and really explore the internal stuff.
An ethnologist visits the town of Binger, Oklahoma in 1928 to investigate a mound, which is said to be haunted by a man by day and a headless woman by night. He discovers a scroll left by a member of the explorer Coranado's party and learns that the mound is in fact a portal to a vast underground civilization.
I'm glad I stuck with this story to the end. It's a little uneven: begins as a horror story, morphs into a fantasy (sort of like a world Lovecraft would have loved to live in -- until he begins to work out the ramifications!) and ends as a --Oh, you thought I'd spoil the story for you, eh? No way! I'll just say that it was an immensely enjoyable novella. I only wish there were more like it.
Soy un gran fan de Lovecraft, pero no puedo decir que este sea uno de sus trabajos que más me haya gustado, siento que era más para una historia corta que se hizo excesivamente larga. Hay otros mejores libros de este autor.
An interesting tale that the co-authores have concocted. I found the tale interesting but one call tell that HPL added stuff to the book late. Not sure if the co-author is just forgotten in our times.
I like this nested Lovecraft story. Somewhat predictable, but very dreamlike with some very good ideas in it.
* Ambiente: Wild West.* Lugares ficticios: K'nyan.
Started off promising, but Lovecraft lost me with his excessive use of descriptions in this story.I stopped reading after some 30 pages.
Starts out OK, ends poorly
