https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18932.Dogsbody
The late '80s were a different time -- J.K. Rowling had yet to light up the dollar signs in publisher's eyes, and fantasy books by authors like DWJ went in and out of print haphazardly.
You can see why this one is more of a hard sell post-Potter than "Oh yeah, Chrestomanci, these books also have a Wizard School." Also, there are elements that read strangely today, to children in the U.S. at least -- Sirius, in dog form, is taken care of by a sweet little girl named Kathy.
I wish I could have the version of book I read as a kid though.This is the first book I could say I truly loved, adored and became obsessed with.
It doesn't matter how many times I've read this, I still enjoy it each time - nothing has diminished.I guess I was attracted to it because as a kid I adored dogs.
It is full of DWJ's magic and brilliant characters that come to life and jump off the page at you.I get lost in this book every time I read it.
When I read this book, the world stops.
This is a delightful story on so many levels.Since Sirius the luminary star-denizen doesn't have any more idea about Earth life or humans than Sirius the abandoned puppy does, everything he learns is filtered through the dog's perceptions.
One of the things I love most about this book is when Miss Smith, a kind and intelligent old lady who knows "Leo" is more than he appears, (view spoiler)[adopts Kathleen to get her out of the Duffields' house and give her a real home.
Most of the story is set on Earth, so the bits about the denizens are sort of in the background, but DWJ never lets anything go to waste.
The nasty adults do and threaten to do things that real nasty adults do.
The nasty children do things that real nasty children do.
Nor does Jones avoid other subjects that usually aren't "permitted" in books for kids: overt racism (against the Irish--the story takes place at the height of IRA violence), parental death, and mindless mating attraction (among the dog characters; no sex is actually described).
There are good people in the story, even good adults that are almost too good to be true, if you didn't know that there are people that good in the world.
This isn't a cynically dark story, but it is a realistically dark one.
Dogsbody has so many strange and magical fantasy elements in its vast realm of a story. I loved the author's quaint writing style, too.
Plucked out of the way-back machine (based upon the compelling recommendation of none other than Neil Gaiman, in his collected non-fiction View From the Cheap Seats, which, of course, was originally the introduction to modern version of Dogsbody that I read), this short, quick, but more importantly interesting and different period piece was a fortuitous find.
It's not a spoiler and, indeed, Gaiman's introduction warned readers that Wynne Jones doesn't offer a conventional finale, but - like so many things in the book - what she leaves you with is sufficiently unique to be, at a minimum ...
In the universe of Dogsbody, stars are ruled by spirits called luminaries.
When a nearby star "goes nova" and a device called the Zoi falls to earth, the luminary of Sirius is falsely accused of murder.
I normally associate DWJ's stories with whimsy, charm, and magic, and this book is a bit of a departure from those themes.
(I especially enjoyed Sun's protectiveness of Earth.) Animals' personalities were portrayed equally well, as was Sirius's constant inner battle to get around his dog nature to remember where he came from--or vice versa, when his dog nature saves his life.
I checked this book out of the library from a small town I lived in for a short time.
The book managed to haunt me (in all the right ways) well into my adulthood, but I could never find it again until someone ordered a copy off Amazon and gave it to me my freshman year of college.
The second time I read it, I finished it in a couple of hours.
It made me cry both times.
The plot does fail to explain itself.
Something deep and wonderful is going on just beyond the pages, and DWJ sees no need to explain it.
A short and beautifully written story about a celestial being falsely accused of murder who is sentenced to live on earth in the body of a dog.
Yet this is so much more than a murder mystery where the main character tries to return to his previous life.
Most of all its a touching story of the bond between a young girl who is mistreated by almost everyone around her and the dog who starts to wonder if going him is better than the life he has on earth.
He plays and learns and gets in trouble in a very doggish way that I think anyone could enjoy.
It's often funny, and Jones seems to have got dogs and cats -- and people -- just right.Then there's the more complicated layer, the sci-fi/fantasy issue of Sirius' crime, trial, and eventual reinstatement.
And there's the old, Celtic, barely glimpsed (appropriate, because barely remembered) mythology and its strange rituals, Arawn and his hounds...I think there's a lot there that could be confusing if you expect to get all the answers.
But this way, you get to keep thinking and wondering long after you've closed the book.
What an outstanding book!
Perfect for dog or cat owners, or anyone who likes a magical adventure, Dogsbody is everything you hope it could be and more.
Topsy-turvy and whip smart, fun and engaging, faced-paced and well-detailed, deep and heartwarming, Dogsbody is a wonderful example of a gifted storyteller weaving her unforgettable magic and hitting every color and flavor in the spectrum along the way.
If Diana Wynne Jones isn't one of your favorite authors, I must ask...why not?
Many thanks to the wonderful Sveta for this lovely book and for introducing me to Diana Wynne Jones and her awesome stories.
Oh, I REALLY enjoyed this book!
Though this is targeted toward the young adult market, I think it is a story for all ages!
The premise of a celestial being trapped in the body of a dog on Earth is definitely unique, but the way it is written, though it is a fantasy novel at heart, there are a lot of realistic details about a dog's life.
Anyone looking for a unique spin on a dog book would definitely enjoy this!
The dog/star's perspective was wonderful and just completely unlike anything else I have ever read.
A wonderful, mythic sort of tale...
How does one write sympathetically of animals without going all the way over the line and putting them in waistcoats? Or realistically, without killing them off right away? It's tricky, and a little trippy, but a very cool result.
It has nothing to do with the fact that I am a cat person that I didn't really enjoy this one. I like dogs well enough but I felt this story lacked the humour, charm and unique style of Diana Wynne Jones. For the most of it, I felt quite bored with the story. There was too much day to day activity from the perspective of a dog and not enough about Sirius' star side. Everything I found interesting about this book was just vastly underexplored - the whole hierarchy in the solar system, the cold d
I like dogs well enough but I felt this story lacked the humour, charm and unique style of Diana Wynne Jones.
Kathleen's own story was also more interesting than that, it was quite shockingly cruel and reminded me of Harry Potter's life with the Dursleys.
But then it fell flat again as I found Kathleen's reactions weak and unrelatable, not to mention that it just didn't feel like much was resolved.Last but not least, this is the first time I've read a book with so many typos.
Though Sirius thinks that he is a dog, his luminary consciousness is not far behind his doggie mind.
I loved the way Diana Wynne Jones takes us inside the mind of a dog and shows us how it might think.
I think Sirius is one of my favourite dog characters ever.
The book also asks an important question – if one’s life changes in a radical way from a position of influence and power to a position of an ordinary person, and if one manages to find joy in the little things in life in the new circumstance and form beautiful friendships and find love, what happens when things change again and one has the chance to get back one’s lost glory?
I wolfed it down in a day - pun intended! A nice, light read.
He is not a dog though - but the Luminary Sirius of the Dogstar who has been banished from his sphere after losing his temper and losing a powerful tool that has become lost in Earth.Diana Wynne Jones creates this universe (well...
Sirius - or as Kathleen calls him, Leo, feels like a real dog not some cute affair.
I feel so much pain for Sirius, who after all that despite being this God-like being would have happily lived out his days as a dog just to be with Kathleen.
His judges are other celestial bodies, and his sentence forces him to Earth, where he is to live as a dog and find the mysterious Zoi. Within his dog’s body (see what I did there), he has to balance his animal and his celestial nautres, he learns about humans, and he comes to view things from a new perspective.It’s not that the novel was particularly bad, I just didn’t get it.
I just don’t.Warnings:Drugs: NoneSex: There’s reference to a dog in heat, but it’s vague enough that I didn’t really see a problem with it.Language: None.Violence: The animal violence in this book just about did me in.
Maybe I can go back into his body.KATHLEEN: No really, it's cool.SIRIUS: Dang, I can't go into the body myself, hey yo Sol, can you put me back in this dog?KATHLEEN: Uhm.SIRIUS: Ah man Sol can't do it, I guess this really is goodbye for me and now your dog is dead, what a bummer.KATHLEEN: Yeah well, thanks for being my best friend and companion when my aunt tortured me and I was bullied at school and my dad died and all but I gotta go, so...
Sirius is sentenced to living out his years as a dog on Earth, only to be returned to his original form if he finds and recovers the zoi.Born as a puppy on earth, helpless and confused, his adventures begin with a scrappy struggle for survival and take him to a rather dysfunctional family, where he becomes the pet and companion of Kathleen, a young, lonely girl.
The humans around him tend to be broadly drawn, which actually works out fine in this tale: subtleties of personality emerge when appropriate, mostly with Kathleen.Occasionally, the nature of the zoi and of some of the beings that Sirius encounters were a little too abstract for me, and I wasn't sure quite what was at stake.
This new edition provides - I hope - the appeal and opportunity to place Dogsbody in many more people's hands.
- and Dogsbody is one of my favorite novels of all time: a beautifully written and inventive story, one of the most original and Jones' stories always resonate with a powerful voice.
This new edition was lovingly assembled by Firebird (an awesome imprint) by people who knew and adored Diana Wynne Jones - with an introduction by another favorite author, the fabulous Neil Gaiman!
- and it is a fitting and worthy reissue of a novel that everyone who loves fantasy should read.
His sentence is to be reborn on earth as a dog until he can redeem himself by finding the Zoi. Unfortunately, Sirius (or Leo as he is now known) has no idea what a Zoi is or how to find it.
Along the way, Sirius learns how to love.I enjoyed the fantasy setting of this beautifully told story, which reveals the interesting personalities and tender feelings of the main characters as well as an intimate knowledge and love of dogs.
Diana Wynne Jones has created a wonderful story that will be enjoyed not just by children, but by anyone who has ever loved a dog or enjoyed opening a book and stepping into the world of ‘What If.’
I read somewhere that this was a must-read for dog lovers but I wasn't actually impressed with the dog character.
An interesting premise; Sirius the dog star is sent to Earth as a dog to find something(a zoi, similar to a meteor) he was blamed for sending hurtling to Earth in a fit of rage.
I think it could've been better, maybe by making the object an actual meteor as opposed to some made up object with mysterious powers.
Maybe I just don't like sci-fi.
I did like the little girl, who adopted Sirius.
Yet again Diana Wynne Jones has the power to make me cry. Yet again she shows her total understanding of the human condition by writing about something beyond it. Dogsbody is a gorgeous book: the Dogstar, Sirius, imprisoned in the body of a puppy as punishment for an act not his fault. The tale of his time as a dog on Earth is both quest for justice, rite of passage and journey towards understanding - both of the world he must inhabit and of his own self-realisation. Insightful, heart-breaking and hilarious as ever, this is a new favourite.
To quote Megan Whalen Turner, "...all she touches turns to magic."Things I Liked:-I liked that it happened during a period I’ve never really read about before.-There were a lot of good characters.
A lot of characters that were fun to read about like Miss Smith, and the policeman.-And speaking of good characters, Robin and Basil's characters-especially Robin-were really good.
This book had a lot of potential.
A star, the star in our night sky, Sirius, is found guilty of murder and is banished to earth as a puppy.
And he has to find the way back home.
Really interesting, unique premise.The problem I have is that this book has dated.
The gender roles, the casual racism, the changing words that mean calling a 9 year old girl "sluttish" really doesn't work for me.
However, usually I get annoyed at the end of books.
This book however totally pulled it together at the end.
I loved it.
I remember reading this book as a child and loving it. I believe my early fascination with the universe can be directly attributed to reading this book. Interestingly enough, though, we became serial cat owners, never a dog. I think that was more my parents though.I digress. I always find it challenging to pick up a book beloved by my childhood self, because I want to preserve the magic of the book from my cynical, adult self. This book holds up wonderfully, and it's a definite reread, as well.
Excellent! An intriguing story of Sirius, a luminary accused of murder. For his sentence he is banished to Earth as a dog and must accomplish a seemingly impossible task or he will die as a dog. Along the way of the twisting plot there is no end of excitement, intrigue, and fantasy, all with a touching dog story thrown in.
I loved it. Diana Wynne Jones has an uncanny knack for taking ridiculous concepts and turning them into something truly touching.
4.5/4.75Like every other Diana Wynne Jones book: delightful, enchanting, near-perfect, tear-jerking.
