https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1036020.Told_By_An_Idiot
The first lines, to give you an idea of tone: "One evening, shortly before Christmas, in the days when our forefathers, being young, possessed the earth, – in brief, in the year 1879, – Mrs Garden came briskly into the drawing-room from Mr Garden’s study and said in her crisp, even voice to her six children, “Well, my dears, I have to tell you something.
It is a wonderful mix of essay and novel, and succeeded in making clear to me just how little has changed in the last hundred-odd years.
Macaulay follows the fortunes of a family from 1879 until the aftermath of WWI, her central thesis being that stuff just happens to individuals and societies without any generation being markedly different from the previous one.
The patriarch of the family is a deeply religious man who embraces one creed after another in an elusive attempt to find a faith in complete consonance with his conscience.
By far the most interesting character, in my view, is Rome, a charming cynic who tries to get through life without engaging with it.
However, except for a short, delightful chapter where two children ride the London Underground on a Sunday afternoon, Macaulay doesn't show the interest in London, or in characters' inner lives, that Woolf does in Mrs. Dalloway, which focuses on one day in 1923.
Macaulay is more interested in showing the sweep of time from 1879-1923 through the lives of one family as well as through narrative commentary: her characters live through a succession of monarchs, the Boer War, the Great War, and all kinds of technological and social change, but the more things change, the more events repeat.
I wanted to like this but as the tone is one of "there is nothing new under the sun," it necessarily has an air of humorous weariness about it. Because she is such a marvelous stylist, it will not keep me from attempting other works of hers, however.
As the novel opens, Mama and Papa Garden live in their comfortable London home with their six children, the eldest Vicky is already twenty-three – the youngest Una a fifteen-year-old schoolgirl.“One evening, shortly before Christmas, in the days when our forefathers, being young, possessed the earth, – in brief, in the year 1879, – Mrs Garden came briskly into the drawing-room from Mr Garden’s study and said in her crisp, even voice to her six children, “Well, my dears, I have to tell you something.
Conventional Vicky’s younger sisters Stanley and Rome (here again Macaulay’s unusual androgynous names for women) and their brother Maurice at Cambridge are the epitome of late Victorian modernity.
It’s a fine book, but it’s also a late book and not, perhaps, entirely representative of the work by which she made her name in the 1920s and ‘30s.
Told by an Idiot is too, though the story if more dispersed, since it concerns a large number of characters in a single family.
I couldn’t help thinking of Thomas Mann’s Buddenbrooks while reading it.
Worthy in its way, Mann’s book is essentially a work of pessimism.
A silly story if you will, but a somewhat remarkable one.
Rose Macaulay has not been given a bright enough light in our contemporary lists.
Yet she is a brilliant, idiosyncratic writer who has given me hours and hours of pleasure.
Towers of Trebizond (novel, Pleasure in Ruins (historical travelog) and now Told by an Idiot.
The stories of the six children: Victoria, Stanley (female), Maurice (male), Rome (female), Irving (male), Una (female), are told with enough detail to build real characters, not just placeholders.
Each has his or her own charm; Maurice, less, Rome, more to carry the reader through the chronology.
Reading the final chapter wiped clean all those previously clever marks.The book covers the entire life of Garden family for three generations.
Even when they interact with the readers, you get a clear feeling that it is the author’s voice we hear.In the final page of “Final” chapter, the author looks at each of Garden family members, parents and the six siblings, and gives a concise summary of “how variously they had all taken life”.
But as I become more experienced in the show of life, I see myself becoming more like Rome.
I really liked it - a wry romp, tracing a late Victorian (then Edwardian, then Georgian), somewhat absurd family, mostly in broad brushes, from 1870s to just past WW1.
Anyway, it's written in a fairly experimental style, often times feeling like a diary, sometimes as a series of essays of social and cultural commentary -name checking novels, political parties, parliament, patriotism, suffragettes, Liberals, Tories, Socialists...Macaulay also observes that we like to think, especially when young, that our generation as modern and new - progress; but really we've far more in common with older generations than we care to admit.
An amusing family saga, which blends reflection on history and religion with solid character portraits.
I particularly enjoyed the story of 'papa', the man who has faith but also doubts with the result that he changes religion every few years, attempting with mixed success to take his family with him.
Several passages made me chuckle, including the reflections on how every generation critiques the young people of the day, and I appreciated the way that the set up of the family with multiple sisters allowed the author to develop them all as independent and very different women.
Macaulay is great at opening lines and the Rev. Garden's continual loss of faith and need to change religions is a hoot, a send-up of the seriousness of Victorian faith. It seems aimed at such works as Mrs. Humphry Ward's Robert Elsmere. The wife's dry comment that father has lost his faith again is just wonderful. This rapid overview of the Victorian to WWI period as exhibited by the characters over three generations is structured a bit like Virginia Woolf's Orlando, but one might also think of Woolf's The Years; written in 1923, Macaulay predates both works.
This is a book of two stories. The first story is a rich history of England. I learned about the rich history of the Victorian and Edwardian era in England. Embedded in this history is a great story of the Gardner family. No matter how successful, happy, or miserable their individual lives were the end is always the same. It is the end we all have, death.
Thank God for Rose Macaulay.
Some of the things she wrote could as well apply to modern life, especially her contrasts between political and social liberals and conservatives.
Though she criticizes the tendency to describe people as belonging to specific generations, such as our more modern "millennials" and "generation x" and "baby boomers", the entire book is nevertheless based on the premise that it is useful to do this.I don't think it's the kind of book I will re-read, but, after I write down a few of my favorite quotes, I will unfold the page corners and bring it to a local book box to share with neighbors.
What a joy to pick up a Rose Macaulay again. Eccentric characters, entirely their own people, leap at one from the pages and the reader can delight in their world and should that be needed or appropriate escape from the tiresome beings one has to deal with in real life
