https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/313972.The_Way_of_Chuang_Tzu
Through his writings and those of other Taoist sages, Indian Buddhism was transformed in China into what is now known by its Japanese name - Zen.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیست و یکم ماه نوامبر سال 2016 میلادیعنوان: این کتاب بی فایده است - خرد دائو؛ نویسنده: توماس مرتون؛ برگردان: علیرضا تنکابنی؛ تهران، کاروان، 1387؛ در 231 ص؛ چاپ چهارم 1394؛ در 231 ص، مصور؛ شابک: 9789647033985؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، نشر قطره، 1389؛ در 240 ص؛ شابک: 9786001191688؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، نشر مکتوب، 1394؛ در 231 ص؛ شابک: 9786009426751؛ موضوع: آموزه های جوانگ دزو (زه) (دزی)؛ تائوئیسم؛ سده 4 پیش از میلادگفته های کلاسیک «جوانگ زه»، فیلسوف چینی سده چهارم پیش از میلاد.
ولی نمیدانستم که آیا من جوانگ زه ام که خواب دیدم پروانه شده بودم یا پروانه ام و خواب میبینم که جوانگ زه ام - پشت جلدحکایتی از کتاب: درخت بزرگی دارم، از آنگونه که بی بار و بر خوانند.
It is a good introduction for Chuang Tzu/Zhuang_Zhou for readers with Catholics or Christian background, thanks to "A Note to Reader" and "A Study of Chuang Tzu" chapters by the author. The introduction chapters are gems by themselves, reflecting the rays of bright mind of the author.The poetry part from Chuang Tzu is the main course and maybe the part that you would re-read again and again, even only for some of them.
آن ها در سیاست با انکار مشروعیت هرگونه حکومت، طرفدار نوعی آنارشیسم فردگرا و از بین بردن هرگونه اجتماع متمدن و بازگشت به بدویت و طبیعت نخستین انسان بودند.اساس فلسفه جوانگ زه بر این امر استوار است که حقیقت به وسیله ذهن و استدلال های منطقی قابل دستیابی نیست و به جای آن، نوعی اشراق و روشن شدگی درونی را لازمه دریافت حقیقت می دانستند که تنها با نظاره (بی عملی) حاصل می شود.در مکتب جوانگ زه، دائو (به مفهوم راه طبیعت، اصل، نظم کیهانی) نیروی (متافیزیکی) زندگی بخش همه چیز محسوب می شود.
Oh, and it possesses a brief preface by his Holiness, the Dalai Lama.Confucian practice comes in for much criticism in this book, but I think this is because Daoism is concerned about the experience of being and enlightenment, whereas Confucianism is concerned with the proprieties of social behavior.
He wishes to lead them past the practices to the heart within all of us.Thomas Merton is not fluent in Chinese, and does not claim to be, but as he is a real poet his Chang Tzu renditions travel to the heart within all of us too.Here are a few examples I have chosen, principally because I liked them and they were a little shorter than the rest:
This is one of the first books I read some time ago after first reading the Chuang Tzu. Read it because I needed to read other interpretations of the Chuang Tzu. Merton has a special appeal for me because I had read his great “Seven Story Mountain” and I am enamored of Trappist monks (maybe because I’m not sure I have the fortitude it would take to live those vows).
Even given that Merton did not read Chinese, I still think that his is a unique perspective, perhaps because he more than anyone else who has interpreted the Chuang Tzu has 'lived' the Chuang Tzu. What?
Curiously, when I first read it I felt it wasn't up to 5 stars, and gave it a 3.
However on recent re-read, I now rate it a full five stars.
Or, perhaps, humous wisdom.A couple of paragraphs from Merton's introduction stand out as worthy of citing:[My:] 'readings' [of Chuang Tzu:] are not attempts at faithful reproduction but ventures in personal and spiritual interpretation.
Inevitably, any rendering of Chuang Tzu is bound to be very personal.
I simply like Chuang Tzu because he is what he is and I feel no need to justify this liking to myself or to anyone else.
اگر دائو دجینگ منسوب به لائوزه را مانیفست اعتقادی ایین دائو محسوب کنیم، این اثر به نوعی در برگیرنده اخلاقی دائوی است.برگردان انگلیسی این کتاب از توماس مرتون است و نمی دانم مترجم پارسی تا چه اندازه در متن آن تصرف کرده است.
برای مثال هر جا که در کتاب واژه "خدا" ذکر شده، در متن اصلی چینی "دائو" است که به معنای راه و سلوک و ...
از این روی این ترجمه را نباید ترجمه ای دقیق انگاشت، هر چند که خواندنش خالی از لطف نیست و برای آشنایی با حال و هوای کلی مرام دائو مفید خواهد بود.علاقه من به این کتاب ناشی داستانک هایی است که نقل شده و در پایان یک نتیجه اخلاقی را به دنبال دارد.
عالی بود این كتاب... اندیشه های تامل برانگیزی رو تجربه كردم...از متن:وقتی كفش اندازه است، پا فراموش شود.وقتی كمربند اندازه است، شكم فراموش شود.نه فشاری،نه اجبارینه نیازی،نه كششیو اینگونه جمله ی كارها زیر مهار و تو آزادیآرام،درست استدرست، تو آرامیبه آرامی ادامه بده و تو درستی...راه درست آرام رفتن فراموش كردن راه درست است و فراموش كردن اینكه رفتن آرام است...
عالی بود این كتاب... اندیشه های تامل برانگیزی رو تجربه كردم...از متن:‏وقتی كفش اندازه است، پا فراموش شود.وقتی كمربند اندازه است، شكم فراموش شود.نه فشاری،نه اجبارینه نیازی،نه كششیو اینگونه جمله ی كارها زیر مهار و تو آزادیآرام،درست استدرست، تو آرامیبه آرامی ادامه بده و تو درستی...راه درست آرام رفتن فراموش كردن راه درست است و فراموش كردن اینكه رفتن آرام است...‏
Yet, if Taoism is viewed as cosmic energy that operates dialectically (force, counter force, equilibrium), the Taoist epigrams of Chuang Tzu begin to make some sense.
Chuang Tzu's epigrams emphasize balance in the conduct of life.
This is both the force or energy that pervades all of life and the principles of change and balance that govern all life forms and their interaction with each other and nature.
Virtue means to care and tend to our individual natures but to do so without asserting too much and without violating "Te." Arguably, this could be the story that Taoism tells.
I'd read Lao Tzu's "Tao Te Ching" before but had never had the opportunity to read anything my Chuang Tzu. This was an excellent book that I read straight through, probably not the best way to read it, I think I'll get a physical copy so I can keep it on the nightstand to read the poetry section, again and again.
a reference book on my shelf, which I return to again and again. Chuang Tzu illustrates the way with fables rather than epigrams. More approachable than Lao Tzu, thought some stories can be as enigmatic as truisms. Not a book to read through cover to cover in one sitting, but rather a book to leave around, and pick a page at random whenever guidance is needed.
بهترین کتابی که تا به حال خوانده ام
However, the content of his translation is too frequently wrong to make this translation a reliable representation of what Zhuang Zi (Chuang Tzu) meant.There are many places in ancient Chinese where, e.g., one person might translate: "The sage always..." and another person might translate: "The Dao always..." That is because the original text did not have a subject.
The idea must have come because Merton was able to push the English of translators into the interpretation that seemed to Merton, on the basis of his own experience as a meditator, to be correct.
If you want to understand Zhuang Zi then this translation can get you into trouble.
I recently saw a piece about how the largest enrolled class at Harvard is now on Chinese philosophy.
Of course there is the irony of all the institutional trappings of a class in connection with Zen. But it also couldn't help but feed the sense that philosophy is a silly game.
Often the point of a story is that "consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds." But of course the real line is that FOOLISH consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds.
While I like the personal challenge of reflecting on Zen stories, I don't see how to take it any further than that.
Merton brilliantly synthesizes Chuang Tzu's critique of the Confucian ethic of the "Superior Man" with the example of the heroic and the virtuous public servant by explaining that even the good and the noble person:Engages in a self-conscious and deliberate campaign to 'do his duty' in the belief that this is right and therefore productive of happiness.
In living out Wu Wei, Chuang Tzu advocated a non-action that was in complete harmony with Tao-in other words-perfect action.
Then I read it again, underlined many parts of it, looked back at the parts I liked, read a little more, kept the book near my bed, took comfort in the wisdom I discovered, and soon heard my voice telling random friends about Chuang Tzu and Taoism!Among the things I found particularly interesting was the concept of TAO: Tao does not mean "God".
If they are both inside and outside, Do not try To hold on to Tao - Just hope that Tao Will keep hold of you!"Thomas Merton writes a very enjoyable introduction to the readings and study of Chuang Tzu He seems to have really "grasped" the simplicity of the importance of getting lost to save oneself.
There are few books in the world, which will give you an insight into humanity and the world, yet also make you laugh!Chuang Tzu is one of those few. With his humour and wit, he gives the reader a beautiful insight to the Tao!Enjoy!!!
Merton sees that "this is, in fact, nothing but organized despair: 'the good' that is preached and exacted by the moralist thus finally becomes an evil, and all the more so since the hopeless pursuit of it distracts one from the real good which one already possesses and which one now despises or ignores." How often do we see this when the church becomes preoccupied with attaining holiness through an emphasis on perfecting the moralisms of external behavior while forgetting the real good - which is loved freely given and received.Therefore, the essence of the way proposed by Chuang Tzu is not the accumulation of virtue and merit, common in the philosophy taught in his day (and perhaps in much of Christendom today despite a vocalized and often hollow allegiance to a "faith and not works" religion), but the non-doing or non-action which is indifferent to results and unhindered by consciously laid plans or deliberately organized endeavors.
A thousand years from now today’s problems won’t matter.But I must worry about the check engine light on my car, the leaves laying in the front yard as the first snowfall comes, I’ve got to figure out how to pay for my kids’ college, or what to do if I lost my job, or what to do about that strange looking mole on my arm.
Can we step out of this rat race, step away from the advances in science and medicine, embrace non-action, become impassive to friends, to family, to fate?
I read the Tao Teh Ching a few years ago and become obsessed, reading various translations. I saved reading any Chuang Tzu till now. Generally Chuang Tzu is less ambiguous and more consistent than Lao Tzu. It is much easier to see the influence of Chuang Tzu rather then Lao Tzu on Zen Buddhism.  Here is some quotes I loved: “The rich make life intolerable, driving themselves in order to get more and more money which they cannot really use. In so doing they are alienated from themselves, and exh
I saved reading any Chuang Tzu till now.
In so doing they are alienated from themselves, and exhaust themselves in their own service as though they were slaves of others.”(p.99) I think this applies to the North American middle class, who are the global “rich”.
This also applies, “When he tries to extend his power over objects, those objects gain control of him.” (p.136).
See also the chapter Active Life which reads, “Those who are caught in the machinery of power take no joy except in activity and change- the whirring of the machine!” (p.142)
This book feels like a sequel to the Tao Te Ching. With quick-to-read small parables and koans of wisdom, often as a conversation between two people, The Way of Chuang Tzu can bring a dose of enlightenment to any extended restroom trip. Also like the Tao Te Ching, this book helps the mind unravel the knots of the mind and open up to the world around it. What does butchering a cow have to do finding joy? You'll have to read to find out.
Monk Thomas Merton reflects on the works of Chung Tzu, who lived in Asia nearly 2500 years ago. We are invited to release ourselves from servitude to riches, ambition, duty, and even virtue. The way begins with the simple good of being, in and through each moment. Happiness lies in doing nothing whatsoever calculated to obtain happiness, rather in bringing full presence to each situation, this making clear the path.
I have read two other translations of Chuang Tzu and this is without a doubt the best. Other translations seem to be word for word and lose out on the poetry of the stories. Chuang is the poetic fulfillment of Taoist philosophy.Chuang:When the meaning of words are grasped, the words are forgotten. Find me the man who knows no words, for he is the one I'd like to talk to.
gttrree
This is a great book of wisdom. Short pages and snippets that are pregnant with paradigm shifting messages.

Recognize there is a higher divinity that cannot be named.One of my favorite Rumi lines is, “there is another within, by whom these eyes sparkle.” To which I think Chuang Tzu would add, “the other within cannot be named and can only be found through non-action.” Do less, surrender to the unity and take your ego aims out of the equation.
Here are the five ways:Love of colors bewitches the earAnd it loses its true hearing.Love of perfumesFills the head with dizziness.Love of flavorsRuins the taste.Desires unsettle the heartUntil the original nature runs amok.These are the five enemies of true life.
Instead of propounding his ideas in condensed, poetic form, as per Laozi, Zhuangzi conveyed his understanding of the Dao in oftentimes funny narratives, many of which Merton here renders into long-form poetry.
But this "universal love" will be found upon examination (like most other utopian projects) to make such severe demands upon human nature that it cannot be realized, and indeed, even if it could be realized it would in fact cramp and distort man, eventually ruining both him and his society.
The overall points still seem valid but the rational/logic the book uses to get to their conclusions are not.As they say, the tao that can be spoken is not the true tao.
But the tao that is spoken of in this book was not very tao-ish at times.
Tao and attachments like this don't go together.Best stories would be the Great and Small, which points out that everything is relative; and Means and Ends which talks about the purpose of a tool and the importance of not making the tool itself the object of admiration.
I wish I could hear more of what Merton thinks of Chuang Tzu's ideas of wu wei and the Tao. I have been trying to put some of these thoughts into practice about non-action, but I'm still a little wary as a Christian.
"If you persist in trying to attain what is never attained (It is Tao's gift),if you persist in making effort to obtain what effort cannot get,if you persist in reasoning about what cannot be understood,you will be destroyed by the very thing you seek.To know when to stop,to know when you can get no further by your own action,this is the right beginning!"As he says, wu wei is the right beginning.
