https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10260.The_Pleasure_of_Finding_Things_Out
Feynman wasn't among the first wave of theoretical physicists to dance in the quantum space, but he was a huge member of the second wave.The thing that makes Feynman so interesting is just his unpretentious quirkiness, his love of telling stories, his ability to quickly grasp the root of a problem (whether in physics, biology, or religion) and give you an honest answer.
So if you've read Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman!: Adventures of a Curious Character or Genius: The Life and Science of Richard Feynman many of these stories have been heard before.
When I got the book, I was expecting to read a lightning-quick volley of ideas that would set my mind alight with the wonder and infinite possibilities continued within a lifetime's pursuit of science.Yeah, that didn't quite happen.Don't get me wrong - Feynman is indisputably brilliant, and far from the classic mold of the physicist.
But turning speech into print is always dangerous, and here I think it fails.For different people - people who are deeply involved in physics or who are Feynman acolytes - this book is probably a fascinating look into the mind of one of the 20th century's greatest scientists.
I didn't realize the female mind was capable of understanding analytic geometry.She went on and said, 'Suppose you have another line coming in from the other side and you want to figure out where they are going to intersect.' Suppose on one line you go over two to the right for every one you go up, and the other line goes over three to the right for every one that it goes up, and they start twenty steps apart, etc.-I was flabbergasted.
It turned out that one girl was explaining to the other how to knit argyle socks.I, therefore, did learn a lesson: The female mind is capable of understanding analytic geometry.
Feynman is brilliant, arrogant and emotionally cold.
He was the youngest brilliant mind working on the atomic bomb in Los Alamos in the 1940's and later won the Nobel Prize in physics.
We hear three or four times about how his father taught him to observe and we hear three or four times the identical story about the Cargo Cults in New Guinea after WW II.
His father, who was not a scientist, turned out to be an excellent teacher specializing in teaching his son to learn by observing.
It's fun to see a mind at work, punching the envelope, too undisciplined and too powerful to be contained within a skull.
I love this man. He is brilliant, seems humble, and funny as hell. This is an excellent collection of some of his ideas and stories, mostly about his life experiences and how he became who he was. Even if you do not have a good understanding of physics or even math you will still enjoy this book. It is not a tractate or a manual but rather a collections of anecdotal stories and interviews that allow anyone to take a peek into the mind of this true badass.
ممتع حقاً! مرت فترة طويلة عن آخر مرة استمتعت بكتاب ما لأقرأه في يوم واحد، التهمته دفعة واحدة كأنه نوع من أنواع الحلويات ولكن الجميل أن هذا النوع من الحلوى هو الوحيد الذي تستطيع التهامه بالكامل وسيعتبر فعلك فعل حسن.تعقيب مهم: فاينمان عالِم عظيم ولا يختلف على ذلك أحد ولكنه عالِم فقط! معرفته في العلوم الاجتماعية ضعيفة ويظهر هذا الأمر بجلاء في الكتاب فهو يقوم بإسداء النصائح في جميع المجالات رغم عدم تخصصه وبعض هذه الآراء محرجة وخاطئة في اعتقادي بسبب عدم معرفته الكافية بهذه العلوم.
يحتوي الكتاب على تنوع واسع من المواضيع التي فكر فيها فينمان بعمق ليس الفيزياء وحسب بل ايضا التعليم الذي لم يتفوق أحد عليه فيه وكذلك الدين والفلسفة ورعب المسرح الأكاديمي، ومستقبل علم الكومبيوتر ومستقبل العلم والحضارة، وكيف ينبغي أن ينظر العلماء الناشئون إلى العالم والعمى البيروقراطي المؤلم الذي قاد إلى مصيبة سفينة الفضاء “تشالنجر” ذلك التقرير الرئيسي الذي جعل من “فينمان” حديث كل منزل.كان فينمان يقول دائما أنه بحث في الفيزياء ليس سعيا وراء المجد ولا المكافآت ولا الجوائز ولكن من أجل “متعتها” من أجل السعادة الغامرة لاكتشاف كيفية سير الكون، وما الذي يجعله يسير.إن ثرات فينمان يكمن في انغماسه وتفرغه للعلم، منطقه وطرقه ورفضه للعقائد واتساعه اللامحدود في الشك.
A collection of truly fun essays about all sorts of things. It's almost a kind of pick-me-up for the scientifically minded.Some of the best essays are the ones concerning nanotechnology, "What is Science?", and the discussion on religion - particularly interesting given the resurgence of non-belief in recent years.Not much new if you're already a devotee of Feynman, but I'd be happy to give my copy to someone new to him.
المتعة التي نحتاجها دومًا... إنها متعة العلم واكتشاف الأشياء
Unfortunately some of the material covers territory that is widely available elsewhere and hence adds nothing in terms of ideas or anecdotes for the Feynman fan of long standing.The material that was entirely new to me was interesting and made the book worthwhile on its own, but a characteristic of this book is that Feynman's own voice comes through strongly, unfiltered through editors and that made even familiar stories interesting.
The book also covers a wide range from the silly stories to the serious science to the discussions on the nature and ethics of science.Feynman fans should read it and people who want to know what the Feynman Fuss is about could do worse than start here.
OH MAN I LOVE YOU RICHARD FEYNMAN.While significantly more technical than Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman! I still really appreciated the writing and his insights into the physical universe. I feel like more teenagers should read Feynman - he believes so strongly in LIVING and THINKING and WORKING while still enjoying oneself that he could do so much good for that age bracket. Also, as an aside - can you even imagine the conversations between this guy and Neil Degrasse Tyson? CAN YOU.
Richard Feynman is a founder of Quantum Field theory and among the greatest physicists of the 20th century. He is also an interesting and irreverent personality. Reading him is refreshing and his mercurial skepticism is and down to earth style make him fun to read. He covers personal anecdotes like safecracking at Los Alamos, to his report on the space shuttle and some interesting science talks two of which for saw miniturization as the path forward for computers and see a future in what is called nanotechnology today. Definitely fun to read this down to earth genius.
Richard Feynman is one of my heroes, and this short, very accessible book compiles some of his most engaging writings, as well as a couple of interviews and the report he wrote on the space shuttle Challenger disaster.
It's not as biographical as Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman!: Adventures of a Curious Character or as technical as Six Easy Pieces: Essentials of Physics By Its Most Brilliant Teacher, and I think this would be a good place to start for anyone interested in learning about this fascinating man.
Overall, though, I like seeing how Feynman thought--and doing a little check to see how well my understanding of science holds up.
Feynman (1999)Brilliance and charm: Feynman as a teacherI very much enjoyed this entertaining and delightful collection of lectures, talks and essays by the world-renown and sorely missed Professor Feynman, Nobel Prize winning physicist, idiosyncratic genius and one of the great men of the twentieth century.I particularly enjoyed the subtle yet unmistakable way he scolded the people at NASA for putting their political butts before the safety of the space program they were managing in his famous "Minority Report to the Space Shuttle Challenger Inquiry." But the chapter that really sold me on Richard P.
I was also loved the chapter, "What is Science?", a talk to science teachers in which Feynman demonstrates that the real difference between science and other ways of "knowing" (e.g., religion) is the ability to doubt.
There is a marked difference in the way people talk about something when they enjoy doing the thing and are good at it than when they don't enjoy it very much.
Feynman has a way of making his sense of wonder and the hunger of understanding things very contagious.
The biggest takeaway that a person not involved in the sciences can get from this book is a solid understanding of what is and what is not science.What makes the book a bit difficult to read is that the book is almost a direct transcription of his speeches - which means the prose is less than exemplary..
Manhattan Projesinde yaşadığı sansür maceralarını okurken kahkaha atmaya engel olamazken; nanoteknoloji hakkında uzun zaman önce söylediği çığır açıcı fikirlere de hayranlığımı gizleyemedim.En önemli detaylardan birisi, 1988'de ölen dahinin bu kitapta hayal gücüyle söylediği hemen her şeyin hala geçerli olmasıdır.
Kitap keşfetmenin hazzından başka; deneyin ve gözlemin önemi, bilim insanının düştüğü fikri tuzak ve yanılgılar, kendini kandırma, bürokratik körlük, akademik işbirliği ve yazının kara delikleri gibi pek çok konuda oldukça önemli fikirler de barındırıyor bünyesinde.Bunun dışında, basım hataları özellikle dahi anlamına gelen de-da eklerinin yazılışlarının ısrarla hatalı olması kitabın Türkçe baskısı için söyleyebileceğim olumsuz bir detay.
I can't believe how excellent this Book is, he is truly a great story teller and has a quite unique way of thinking , and also a brilliant man. He looks a lot like client eastwood is this book . Don't be fooled by the low quality, worth a readed .
Feynman is brilliant, but I spaced out at times. Some very interesting parts, but many parts difficult for a non-physicist to follow.
Among all other physicist Feynman was the one most distinctively standing out as he was the one who could do the best job of familiarizing the layman with the ways of nature and things hard to grasp intuitively.
I also like Sagan, but I found him more like inspirational guy, Feynman was one with magnificent explanations.
For anyone wanting to get better understanding of physics and acquiring basics those are invaluable-do-not-miss.
It will offer you glance at his personality, life and way of thinking but Feynman’s real treasure is in him talking physics.
Nevertheless I liked it, because it is impossible to like his genius and personality.
Quality reading from a master of physics with a sense of humor.
Never with Physics or Chemistry, and I always thought people who do them for a living were some kind of aliens.
And they are (and so one more fond of science might say about artists), but after reading this book I can say that Feynman's way of thinking is simply brilliant, revolutionary and unique.
It does not relate pretty much to anything else but his curiosity for what he calls "the wonders of the world", therefore in its uniqueness it's also not too far away from the artist's point of view.
This was my first glimpse into the life and mind of Richard Feynman, and boy was it a ride!
I had some expectations based on some of the stories I heard and his general fame, but the actual Feynman turned to be much deeper and interesting than just those glimpses in popular myths.The Pleasure of Finding Things Out is going to give you just that.
Through the speeches and essays in this book you will see the workings of an extraordinary mind and learn much about the process of science and its place in our world.
كتاب فيه الكثير من المتعة و الجنون لولا بعض الملاحظات على :> ركاكة الأسلوب ( فقد كُتب الكتاب بالأسلوب الذي كتب فينمان ـ وهو الذي لم يكن مهتماً بقواعد اللغة ـ , ولم يتدخّل المحرر بالتصحيح إلا عندما يستعصي الكلام على الفهم ..)> بعض أحاديثه وشروحاته ـ التي يقول أنها موجهة للعامّة ـ كانت تحتاج إلى علمِ بالفيزياء كنت أفتقده =)>آراءه في العلم وعلاقته بالدين ,وعقيدة الشك التي يتبنّاها للوصول إلى مزيد من الفتوح العلمية والتي لفرط تحمّسه لها دعى إلى تعميها وعدم اقتصارها على العلم لتشمل الدين أيضاً ..
إلا أننا نلمس من بعض أحاديثه إقراراً بأنه لا يملك إلا أن يُسَلِّم ببعض من هذه المعتقدات لكي يوجد له أرضاً صلبه يبني عليها تصوراته عن الكون وقوانينه ..فلكي نشك في أمر ما نحتاج إلى حقائق نستند إليها في شكنا ذاك ..
Reading Feynman is a delight. His straight-forward, conversational tone, and his ability to simply explain complex concepts is amazing. His flaws make him seem human, and his humility makes him endearing. It is apparent in this book, and others I've read, that he genuinely wants to communicate not just pontificate. We need more people like him.
I love this man. How could I not, especially after reading his own words. I feel even more admiration and respect for such a brilliant, yet humble individual. I enjoyed getting a look into the inner workings of his mind.
Đúng chuyên ngành của mình mà có nhiều chỗ còn phải đọc đi đọc lại. Chắc mấy năm nữa đọc lại cũng vẫn còn lúng túng.Combo:- Thế giới như tôi thấy- Bài giảng cuối cùng.- Niềm vui khám phá.
A very enjoyable read.
Science is fun and valuable.A collection of short works by Feynman (talks, interviews and articles).Chapter 1: interview with BBC Horizon programBeauty of a flower from a scientist POV.
Opened so many safes, including the one containing all the secrets of the atomic bomb.Chapter 4: What is and what should be the role of scientific culture in modern society?Feared the increase of totalitarianism.
Science doesn't give moral instructions.Why are people so ignorant about science yet able to lead good lives in the modern society?
Science teaches the importance of rationality and freedom of thought."Science is the belief in the ignorance of experts"Evidence is in principle accessible to all people to kudge by themselves.
ON THE OTHER HAND MOST IMPORTANT THINGS WHICH ADDS SURPLUS IN ME COMPENSATING THE LOSS, IS MY SOUL AND EVERY DAY LIFE FILLING UP WITH THE CAREFREE FINDINGS AND KNOWING ABOUT THE WORLD.All I'd like to say and what I feel after going through life time and again is "I don't know what to do with all these joys, with all the knowledge and the enthusiasm that feels me up when I address the true beauty of the Nature.
Hope I could feel me up with these thing.
And so we really get to meet two interesting people.A few things I gathered from this collection: Feynman is all about ideas.
This is evident in his little adventures and funny anecdotes, of which I found his lock picking exploits at Los Alamos and his story about turning himself into a lab rat in a counting experiment memorable.One grudge I have is that brilliant people often don't talk enough to share their thoughts with us while others talk too much without being asked.
Feynman distinguished himself as being both brilliant and vocal.
