https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/448160.The_Bottle_Factory_Outing
Ten cheers for Beryl, I intend to read everything by her eventually.
This middling Beryl is a tale of a workers' outing, just like the plot of a Carry On film but translated into Russian by someone who didn't realise it was supposed to be funny, then retranslated back into English by someone who didn't realise it was a Carry on film.
It's kind of painful, and funny, and grim, and funny, and ghastly, all at the same time.I love Beryl!And she died - I never thought she would!
She just looked like she'd never get round to it.
I imagine most readers reactions would be mixed too, although I could see it being for considerably different reasons.First, the skinny on the story: Two young flatmates, Freda and Brenda, work at a wine factory in London.
The novel is a dive headfirst into the mentalities of men and women met with all kinds of tensions during that time period.
Generally, I tend to read mostly older books; lean stuff from the 70s and 80s where a premium was put on talent and writing ability.
It feels like too many generation gaps are acting as hurdles that hamper an otherwise good reading experience.
They meet at a butcher's shop when the brash and confident Freda saves the pitiful, crying Brenda by taking her home, helping her find employment in a small, wine bottling factory and becoming her only friend in the world.
This is Brenda:The story line revolves around an outing that Freda has engineered in an effort to spend more time with Vittorio.
Rossi's motives are purely lecherous because he wants to use the outing to seduce poor Brenda.
Lots of funny, slapstick scenes ensue with Freda trying to seduce Vittorio while Brenda keeps running away from Rossi and Patrick.
Most of the workers are Italian, but Freda and Brenda, the two main protagonists who share a flat and an uneasy friendship, are English, and there is also an Irish porter.The feisty, outgoing and confrontational Freda organises an outing, largely in order to further her tentative relationship with Vittorio, one of the Italian workers.
The first half of the book is largely comic, but the outing takes a macabre turn, which I won't spoil.
I really enjoyed this book, so I am looking forward to the rest even more.
The Bottle Factory Outing is the first book I’ve read by Beryl Bainbridge.
I suspect this is not up there with her very best work, however it inspires me to want to read more of her books as as there is plenty to enjoy in this unusual tale.
It is quintessentially English, and also makes some very astute observations about culture, class, desire, difference, gender differences and human relationships.Brenda and Freda, the two women at the heart of the book, share a dingy 1970s London bedsit (think Rising Damp) and together they redefine the term “the odd couple”.
The tensions between Freda and Brenda or between them and the other characters are painful to observe in places - you almost feel embarrassed - it's a bit like when you see a couple rowing in public and you want the ground to open up and swallow you even though you don't even know them!The few Beryl Bainbridge books I've read are all slightly quirky and odd - populated with characters who, if they were flat shapes would be all corners and sharp edges rather than smooth and curved!
Freda has planned an outing for the workers, principally because she hopes to advance her friendship with the dreamy Italian beau.
There is certainly a rich comic seam in the novel, the highlight for me being when Brenda builds a barrier out of books in the double bed she shares with Freda to guard against accidental lesbianism.
But the outing itself goes on for too long- almost half of the book- and I found myself willing it to be over, which is not my usual response to Bainbridge's writing.
One outing too many for Bainbridge.
I think i am a bit in love with Beryl, and am pretty excited about slooshing through my to-read pile of her books. This was great, very Seventies, a bit Carry On, with some really spikily funny parts, lots of groping, people being weak and calculating and petty and feeble, and a coldness and darkness that was also pretty funny.
I only read this book because it was on Feminista's Top 100 Works by Women Authors.
Throughout the book, I kept thinking there had to be something more.
They are an anomaly because they are British, while the rest of the workers are Italian, and they are two of three women who work in the factory.
I should have skipped to the last 30 pages so I could have sated my curiosity about the outcome of the factory worker's outing was.
If you read this review, you just shouldn't pick the book up in the first place.Read Feminista's Top 100 Books by Women Authors with me.
Oh, it's delicious.
It's like a French movie in a book: you know it's over because the credits roll up the screen.This little gem was one of those wonderful lucky finds in a second-hand bookstore, and what a lucky find.
I found them delicious, fascinating, intriguing.
I want to go back right now, right this very afternoon, and reread it, but, as they say, "So many books; so little time", and so I will deny myself the pleasure and move on to other works that I hope are as enjoyable.
A small man hugs a large lady and she falls over and breaks her neck. Then they put her in a wine barrel bound for Portugal. Weird.
The other, Freda, just marginally preferable, is the fat one with not the least jolly self-deprecation to preempt the inevitable fat jokes; she’s assertive with a penchant for cruelty and implausibly fancies herself as something of a seductive thespian.
Amid the story's Iron Curtain of bleak monochrome, something finally happens, though the resolution is met with the previous characteristic color,While I would have preferred more cutting edge in this study of beta drudgery and constraints, the writer has an unaffected, readable style (which makes one of us) and an ironic, if slight, voice.
My first Beryl Bainbridge and possibly my last unless my Goodreads friends have any recommendations.Freda and Brenda work in a bottling factory.
By three fifths of the way through, I was becoming really bored as nothing much was happening and I was finding the storyline pointless but then.......the totally unexpected happens and the book turns into a black farce.
Not a great one but at least it made for a more interesting read.If the unexpected event had happened half way through and the book had been shorter, I might have enjoyed it a bit more.
Bainbridge's story is set in a small Italian-run factory somewhere in London which bottles wines and some spirits.
All the workers in this factory have dreams that sustain them through their mundane lives; they long for something to relieve that monotony but ultimately those wishes and desires come to nothing.
I enjoyed Bainbridge's economic style of writing and warmed to these two women but the novel ultimately failed to live up to its promise.
The black humour and the poignancy ultimately became as unlikely a pairing as Freda and Brenda.
The most effortlessly odd book I have read for a very long while. It is just weird. Two mismatched women work in a wine bottling factory and the lively one decides to organize an outing. My favourite type of person are the ones who are deeply odd with no affect indeed think they are entirely rational. This book represents those lovely people in a novel.
This was the first book I read by Beryl Bainbridge and after it I was hooked. It is dark, very funny and quite wonderful. It is also a feminist book in a provocative, subversive and humorous way.
The former describes "The Bottle Factory Outing" as "an outrageously funny and horrifying story".
Set in London in the 1970s, the novel is essentially the story of two lonely young women, Brenda and Freda, who share a bedsit and who are as different from each other as chalk is from cheese.
I simply could not believe that two individuals like Brenda and Freda would ever be friends with each other, let alone share a bedsit - and even a double bed (albeit with a protective barrier of books and bolsters to ensure the preservation of each other's private space).
I found both main characters completely unsympathetic – Brenda was weak, lazy and seemed completely unable to find any joy or happiness in her life.
Freda was cold and unsympathetic towards Brenda, often mocking her and calling her a victim, she is also prone to odd fits of laughing or unnecessary violence.
I don’t think I really understood the deeper themes of the book, as I know from reading the Amazon website reviews that other readers give it five stars and call it a “delicious black comedy” and an “excellent portrayal o f the down side of life”.
The novel does have its share of both, but does not descend into the mere farce that over-use of such elements might produce.Freda and Brenda might work in the same factory, but their backgrounds and personalities are quite different.
What happens stretches the imagination to the extreme and provides the reader with interesting ideas on how to use the left-over brandy after Christmas.The Bottle factory Outing is truly farcical, but the lives of these people are at the same time truly tragic.
The feeling might be a result of the massive changes that have come about in working class life since then.
Frieda and Brenda seem to be avatars of two ways of dealing with being a woman in a man's world - and Bainbridge's point seems to be that neither way ends up being satisfactory.
The actual events of the tragedy were hard to parse out - I think Bainbridge wants the reader to think about the situation from a remove and examine people's motivations rather than going straight to a whodunit.
But other than that, "The Bottle Factory Outing" ends up being more than just a farce and is worth reading to fall into Bainbridge's slyly witty prose.
The Bottle Factory Outing is listed in The Guardian's "1000 novels everyone must read," and the premise caught my interest: two mismatched roommates who work at a small wine bottling factory go on a company picnic that irrevocably alters their lives and the lives of their co-workers.Perhaps because I am not British, the humor was lost on me.
This is the story of two zany working-class ladies, one born to wackiness and the other having ridiculousness forced upon her.
And as far as being one of the 1000 novels everyone must read, I just don't get it.
Book group again, though I did vote for this one.
Surrounded by superstitious and uncomprehending Italian co-workers, Freda lusts after one supervisor while Brenda is regularly subjected to what we would now consider sexual assault by another.
At one chilling point Brenda casually and unemotionally recalls being raped while hitch-hiking.
Freda dies in an accident on the much-anticipated outing and by mutual agreement is sent to her rest in a returning sherry cask, marked as bad so that the receiving dockers in Santander will cast it into the sea.
Freda will be missed by no-one - they will neither notice her absence, nor mourn it.
Bainbridge's novels are like a really tart alcoholic drink.
Makes your mouth pucker and gives you some inappropriate giggles.
Not the most likable thing but it has a worthwhile effect.
The Bottle Factory Outing is a very dark comedy about Freda and Brenda, two women who work at a small Italian-run wine bottling plant in London.
Their relationship with each other and the rest of the factory workers are a bit complex and slightly absurd in a rather banal way.
Freda organizes an outing to the countryside for herself, Brenda, and their co-workers, but everything goes both humorously and tragically wrong.
This is quite unclassifiable. What seems like a light comedy about two female flatmates soon reveals itself to be something deeper and darker. There is a hint of existential despair but before you can pause to think about it, something outrageous happens and diverts your attention. The humour itself is unlike anything I've read. It's painful and embarrassing. The closest thing I've read to her writing is Evelyn Waugh's (darker than dark) comedy. The book slowly loses its way, but it has its moments.
Rather distressing, but funny story of two English girls who work at an Italian-run bottling factory. One is being chased by one of the workers that she has no interest in and the other is chasing a worker who is not interested in her. The plot thickens when a long awaited OUTING planned for the workers occurs, with serious consequences resulting.This book caught my eye at the library as an author I had not read and the story line sounded appealing. It is funny, but sadly so.
It took me a good 30 pages to get into this book, but then I started enjoying it. However, the reactions of the characters to a traumatic even that happens about 3/4 of the way thru are really odd and unbelievable. A well-written book but an implausible and bizarre ending.
Strange story. Starts out very comical and lighthearted then becomes morbid. Not sure if the morbid turn of events is supposed to be comical as well? If so, then I missed something. Good characterization throughout, but no resolution leaves this reader unsatisfied.
Awesome in that is confirms every stereotype I've ever held about Italians, the obese, and homely skinny women. (I rely on fictional novels to confirm all my stereotypes.) Also, the fat one dies on the bottle factory outing. Spoiler alert! Good fun, though, for reals.
Very like the early William Trevor. Except Bainbridge is female to her fingertips, and knows things men do not. Look forward to reading more by Bainbridge.
I agree with the "Col" review. I can just picture the craziness as in Mathau movies. having read other books by Bainbridge, I knew there would be a quirky ending. I was right. thanks!
