https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/909142.Durable_Goods
I read this quite awhile ago when I was on an Elizabeth Berg binge.
I checked out every book of hers from the library and went to town.
I love her books.
TALK BEFORE SLEEP is one of my very favorite books.
So many stick out for me but I really liked this one.
Although like most of her books, it was very emotional.
I have been meaning to read the other book(s) in this series for a long time.
At just over 200 pages it's a very quick read.
A wonderful coming of age story that is apparently loosely based on Berg's own life.
I adore anything and everything written by Elizabeth Berg. She puts words to feelings, creating a tangible description of what we feel at so many times in our lives. This book so sweetly describes a time of change, most of it unwelcome, in the life of a young girl in the south. Follow up with Joy School as it takes the story further. Elizabeth Berg is a remarkable author! I hope you'll love her works as much as I do!
Katie and her best friend Cherylanne (a fantastic character who is brought back in the other books) go to the pool, ride bikes, hang out, fight, and make up.
Meanwhile, Katie misses her mother and worries about her Dad and sister.
This book brought back my childhood more than any other book has, reminding me of some of the unwritten rules of friendship (one can hang out with an older neighborhood friend in the hood, but certainly not at school or on the bus), the activities that filled those long hours of sunshine (practicing back dives), and the way a young girl thinks, hopes, and dreams.
It’s rare that a movie sequel surpasses the original.
It’s even rarer that a book sequel is better than the original because I think most authors pour most of their creativity into the first one and then half-ass the others.
Anyway, I prefer Joy School, the second book in this series.
I assumed that this book, the original, would be even better.
The similes (of which there are many) don’t always make sense.
Almost nothing happens in Joy School, but in that case, the nothing was so round and deep and gorgeous.
Just under 200 pages, this book is delicious.
It's a semi-autobiographical book based loosely on her dad and in Berg's words, she said she wanted to write about what is was like being an army brat.
She said she learned alot of what her feelings for her father were when writing this book.The book is told from a 12 year old girl's perspective.
It was a one sitting book for me.
The words on the pages were so lovely.
I wanted more.
Berg has such a way with words.
Love her writing.As Elizabeth says, this story is about compassion and friendship.
I loved every page.
There were times when I liked her writing style- I loved the way she described things sometimes- my senses were awakened and I could almost touch, see, hear, taste, and smell with Katie- but the story seemed unfinished somehow- like there was something missing or something not said...I don't know how to describe it except an elephant in the room feeling the whole time I was reading.
It just felt like the author was meandering around sometimes- I don't know if there was a point or not- the story feels really unfinished.
I read some of the other reviews and apparently there are two more books in this series.
I believe this was Elizabeth Berg's first novel.
In very spare, beautiful prose, she tells the story through the eyes of twelve-year-old Katie.
Katie's mother has recently died of cancer.
Katie is left to navigate the moods of her distant and sometimes abusive father, while at the same time adolescing, trying to figure out how to become a young woman and fit in with her peers.
Berg does a wonderful job of expressing Katie's feelings and worries, as well as her wishful thinking that her mother isn't really dead and will suddenly reappear when Katie needs her most.A quick read.
You could easily read it in an afternoon, but I wasn't in a hurry and took two days.
One of the best books I've read in a long time. Berg's tone is precise and she handles a difficult topic with grace and compassion, never veering toward the maudlin. If someone asked me for an example of fine, clear, deft writing that is never self-conscious, I would hold up this book and wave it around madly. Off to read more Elizabeth Berg.
I loved this book. I love stories about family. I read this in one day. Then I read it again the next day.
I just love the narrator and main character Katie; such an authentic voice of a 12-year-old girl growing up in the time of transistor radios and drive-in movies and muscle cars.
I grew up in the time that this novel took place and was about the same age as the narrator so this novel and Joy School were very endearing reads to me.Highly recommend for women born between 1950 and 1959.
Recommended for romantic men born between 1950 and 1959.
Recommended for all readers who like coming of age novels and like to be nostalgic once in awhile.
This is the third book of her's that I have read but I find I am disappointed that these stories don't have better endings.
She seems to like to leave the reader hanging in mid air.
I kind of feel like she ran out of ideas or just decided she was done.
He books are easy to read and her characters draw you in but then you are left wondering, and I don't mean in a good way.
From the star ratings she's received, I guess other readers don't feel the same.
Another late to the party book.
Picked it off of my library staff pick shelf.
I see now it's first in a series, that Berg's main character was so loved that fans asked for more, and that Berg feels this is her best book.
It is a sweet summer read, with lovely writing and some quietly profound ideas.
The plot's been done (daughter in rural Texas with abusive father), but Berg's insights and prose make this worth reading.
Loved her sentiment at the end, that her abusive father was "only what I was given first.
There are other places to look for things."
This was a pleasing enough read but lacking a bit in substance.
This book is about Katie and Diane, children of a high-ranking Army officer.
Berg was an army brat herself so I know this book is based largely on her own experience.
Katie and Diane lost their mom a few years ago, and now their Army father is even more distant and violent with them.
I have heard Berg speak about the strained relationship she had/has with her own father, so I wonder how much of this story is her own.The issues of domestic violence and the constant moving around that army families endure are two complex topics.
durable goods is about a girl who is growing up beside her sister and father.
This girl can't do anything she wants because her father is always after them and looking what their doing.
One day her sister decides to run away because their dad said they were moving.
Their dad never talks about their mom but he has a very clear memory but one day he seats down with the main character and tells her about her mom.
I liked the book but i think there was no outcome of the story.
I learned how these girls grow up with one strict parent
I had the marvelous fortune of meeting her briefly at a book fair earlier this month and I have her autograph in my brand new copy of "Tapestry of Fortunes." Parts of Katie's story, like the slightly perverse influence Cherylanne has over her, disturb me, but reading this, I reveled in the language, in the memories Katie turns over in her mind of her mother, who sounds perfectly lovely.
"My mother used to talk on the phone and dunk that tea ball.
I liked to use the phone after her, the receiver still warm, the smell of her tea breath on the mouthpiece.
I will read more of her books.
In Durable Goods, twelve-year-old Katie’s mother has died, and we meet Katie when she’s hiding under her bed to avoid the wrath of her father.
As an Army kid, moving around constantly, Katie has unique insights on saying goodbye to friends and a home she just started feeling comfortable in.
At one point, when Katie is afraid to jump off the high dive, she says, “There are different kinds of time in the world.
When you get called on and you don’t know the answer and the teacher waits, that is one kind of time and it is like this.”This is a quick read.
Author Elizabeth Berg tells the story of Katie Nash, who is on the cusp of adolescence, in such a compassionate and authentic way that every woman will recall that tender and emotionally-filled time of life.
Living in the early 1960s on an Army base in Texas, Katie has an 18-year-old sister, a mother who has recently died of cancer and an Army father who abuses the girls.
Told over a period of a few months, the book is a classic coming-of-age story with a heroine who is so genuine most readers will feel like they know her--or were her at one time.
The voice of the precocious 12 year old narrator is "spot on." She loved and admired her older sister and longed for her life to change. She was longing to grow up. At some points the tone reminded me of "I Am 16 Going on 17." Katie's mother had died that year. As most of you know, I'm a sucker for "dead parents" stories. Elizabeth Berg is able to give voice to the inexpressible and that is what I love about her writing. This is not a sad story; it just brought me back to when I was 12.
Elizabeth Berg's first novel and my favorite book. The heroine, 12-year-old Katie Nash, who lives on an army base with her strict father and older sister, has a uniquely compelling voice. She narrates the story in a conversational tone, sharing her hopes and dreams as well as her fears as she tries to adjust to life without her mother, who has recently died. Katie also appears in Joy School and True to Form.
Durable goods was a good (nor wonderful) and insightful book that I read in 1 sitting. The chapters are short and engaging which made me keeping at it. Overall the story was good and even though the heroine was 12 years old I could relate to some aspects of her inner life. I might continue the series. 3.5 stars
I really liked the spunky young narrator in this book. Berg created a distinctive character in Katie, but the 12 year old voice seemed authentic. A great period piece: something about the time/place (late 1950s? on an army base in Texas)really suited the pivotal moment between childhood and adolescence.Berg's writing is particularly poetic, yet simple, in this novel.
Under 200 pages, this book was a fast read, and read within 2 days.
Katie is 12 years old.
This is my second book in a row with the mother dying of cancer!) though it happened before the book/story begins.
There's Katie's 18 year old sister, Diane and their abusive father.
Yeah, not so "take me back to the good old days" in my books!
I really like the writing style of Elizabeth Berg.
It sound like a genuine 12 year old was telling the story, including the short chapters, and how the paragraphs and words were set up on the pages.
Katie is a 12 year old, currently living in Texas with her father, who is a colonel in the army and her sister, Diane, aged 18.
Whenever things get to be too much with their father, Diane retreats to her boyfriend and Katie retreats under her bed, where she conjures up a vision of her mom who soothes her.
When their father comes home one day with the news that they will once again be moving, Diane decides that she will stay.
Katie decides that she can't go on with Diane and Dickie, so they leave her to be picked up by her father.
I immediately got my hands on the first one (Durable Goods), and have the second one sitting on the coffee table, just waiting for me.This first book introduces us to Katie Nash: 12 years old and trying to figure out life during the sweltering heat of a Texas summer.
She is a great reminder to us of what it was like to navigate the ups and downs of friendship and first loves, and of trying to figure out the secret to growing up.
I can’t wait to read the second novel (and I’m sure I’ll probably re-read the third one, just to properly finish things off)!
The book started off with Katie making the toilet overflow and then hiding under the bed while her dad screamed at Diane and slapped her.
I felt bad for Katie for a lot of the book, she misses her mom who died of cancer and you can tell she misses her because occasionally she goes under her bed and has 1 sided conversations to her mom.
I felt so bad when the dad said they were moving to Missouri and I think that Diane was so bold when she said she wasn't going to go with them and she was going to stay in Texas with one of her friends.
The book just talks about her day to day life, her memories of her mom, her infatuation with her sisters boyfriend, her friendship with the slightly older and much more mature best friend, and how she tries to stay ok her dads good side.
The sister says she’s not going and her and her boyfriend run away to Mexico.
At the last minute, Katie decides to go with them but at a restaurant part way she calls her best friend and decides to go back with her dad.
This book is reminiscent of a more mature "Are You There God, It's Me Margaret." Lonely, sad, and confused 12 year old Katie is navigating her new developing world with a dead mother, a semi absent older sister, and an abusive father.
With only one real friend who is selfish, at best, Katie often wrestles her demons writing her own poetry, trying to imagine her dead mother, and fantasizing about a future where she can control what happens.
Living on an army base and constantly moving, nothing stays the same for very long for Katie.

I read this for a book club pick, and wouldn’t have chosen it on my own The characters all seem to struggle with a ton of self-doubt and don’t realize it.
The book was ultimately a downer.
I realize it would have been a tough life for Katie, the main character, to live with her sister and Dickie in Mexico, but I worry for her living with her abusive father.
I’m just a bit ticked off at the story and I will probably not read more of Bergs work.
Glad it was a quick read!
