https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/214614.Desert_Solitaire
But don’t forget a gift for language, for description, for story-telling, and a strong poetic sensibility.Park Avenue - in Arches National ParkFor those of us who, for whatever reasons, may not be able to manage ten-mile hikes, or who cannot rappel down canyon walls to experience the full range of experience available at our national parks, for those who may not have dedicated our existences to living as closely to the land as possible, we also are Americans, we also are people, and it is possible to take joy in natural wonder without the benefit of Abbey’s athleticism.
Like the pioneers, prospectors, and developers who preceded him, Abbey lays claim to all the canyonlands and Four Corners region of southern Utah and northern Arizona: "Abbey's Country" he calls it, and he seeks to fill every twisting canyon and windswept plateau of his private playground with his own immense, misanthropic ego.
The immense majesty and haunting beauty of southern Utah's canyons deserves a far better panegyrist.Update: It's been ten years since I read Desert Solitaire and wrote this review.
Any discussion of the great Southwest regional writer Edward Abbey invariably turns to the fact that he was a pompous self-centered hypocritical womanizer.
And even his detractors have to admit that no other writer wrote more eloquently about the Southwest, often with the passion of a John Muir and the radical zeal of a Che Guevara.
But it is worth it to get past the man and marvel at this eloquent plea for the preservation of the wonders of the Southwest desert.One more point, I first read this book while on a backpacking trip in Utah's Canyonland National Park.
Anyone who thinks about nature will find things to love and despise about Desert Solitaire.
If you love nature and you're appreciating an amazing view, you probably feel a very basic, child-like wonder.
And if you then see some idiot drive by and throw an empty bottle out of his Hummer, I bet that at least for a moment, there is an Abbey-esque part of you that wishes the humans were dead.
But that first set of emotions, that, to me, seems to be the human half of this book, and in that sense, Abbey does a wonderful job exploring a wide range of emotional, personal reactions to the outdoors.
I love Abbey's descriptions of the desert, the rivers, and the communion with solitude that he learns to love over the course two years as a ranger at Arches National Park.Abbey explores environmentalism and government policies on the national parks.
What makes this book really work for me is the sheer love that Abbey has for Arches and Canyonlands, and the way in which he manages to make me believe I'm right there on the red rock with him.
It's the literary equivalent of Ansel Adams.Oh, and I love how he throws beer cans out his truck window as he's meditating on the destruction of the wilderness by tourists and the government.
NYT essay: https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/26/bo...
My only wish is that I had been reading it IN Utah so I could have seen some of the places mentioned in person rather than in my endless image searching on the internet.Of course, Edward Abbey warns that the places he describes won't exist once the reader encounters them in the book, because the desert is destined for gross commercialization and some of the land will literally disappear underwater because of damming ("you're holding a tombstone in your hands".) And the book was printed in 1968.
Also, what Abbey held up himself as his standard: interesting, original, important, and true.
Abbey is my people, without a box to hold him.(I knew myself well enough to have more Abbey on hand once I read my first one, and what’s interesting is, in Postcards From Ed, how harsh his own commentary is on Desert Solitaire.
But he saw it as the first stepping stone, one rock of many, whereas, apparently, he got weary of the lifelong fire from those who saw fault and not virtue— and humor— in what he called its “superficial notions.” “With Desert Solitaire I was only getting started,” Abbey wrote, and thank God for that.)
I wanted to like this a lot more than I was able to. Abbey includes some beautifully poetic writing about the desert landscape at times and if that remained the central focus of the book, it would be fantastic; however, the other focus of Desert Solitaire is Abbey himself and, at least based on the way he presents himself here, I just don't like Edward Abbey. He's pompous, both racist and sexist, hypocritical, and a rabbit murderer. He's not the kind of company I want to keep.
Why didn't I read this book sooner?? I asked myself....because I was meant to read it now. Right now, as I am looking at the arches and canyons described - as they are so fresh in my mind just returning home. As I can hear the canyon wren's song and feel the sun and breeze and snowflakes on my face.With the Navajo sandstone dust still in my boots. Now was the perfect time.
I'm not sure why everyone loves this book, or Edward Abbey in general. I couldn't even finish this. He is a macho hypocritical egomaniac, hiding behind the veil of saving the earth.totally thumbs down.
Although Abbey is admittedly a bit of a hypocritical prick with an axe to grind against humanity—calling the world overpopulated when he himself had five children is among one of several such statements he makes—he seems to have a very tender reverence for the natural world, and devotes much of the novel to prodigiously recording the natural beauty of Arches Natural Park from his six-month tenure as a park ranger.
But if you can overlook all these short-lived rants, there is something meaningful to be gleaned from Abbey.
And again.Despite the sentimentalities we humans heap on the significance of our individual lives, we are only a small part of a much larger universe.
I'm sorry, I know I should finish Book Club books. But they guy is an arrogant a**hole and I'd rather spend my little free time reading something I enjoy.
It is a point worth confronting because DESERT SOLITAIRE is in part a memoir of Abbey's year as a park ranger at Arches National Park.
Abbey voices at times a surly and wounded outrage.
Other reminiscences from the author's life are also embedded in this year's chronicle.DESERT SOLITAIRE is a thought-provoking book.
Had I read his book today, I would have found his voice less curmudgeonly and more of a rallying cry.
A few years back I picked up a used paperback copy for a buck just because I had once made a promise that I would read the book, even though I knew I would not want to see this person to have a discussion about the book now.Edward Abbey is the sort of person I probably would have liked to know.
But then I remembered that I go outside to walk to the cafeteria for lunch and I nearly shrivel up because I live like a shrew and hate the sunlight and you can practically hear my skin screaming from the contact of the rays.Where he lost me a bit are the few chapters that were about specific people, and their older stories.
4|25|2008: The day I finally finished Desert Solitaire: A Season in the Wilderness by Edward Abbey.Usually I read books very quickly and all at once.
I've started it half a dozen times, and every time I love it, but when I set it down I don't pick it back up again.
I've read the first half of the book several times.
Finally I realized I don't have to read the first half over again every time I set it down.
Throughout the book, I felt challenged to think about his philosophy on life, the wilderness, and everything and decide if I agreed or not.
Edward Abbey has a wonderful love of the wild and his prose manages to actually do justice to the unique landscape of the West.
His "Monkey Wrench Gang" also upset me - he feels sabotaging road-building equipment is justified because of the value of the wilderness.
However, sabotage puts the lives of the workers (who are usually just doing what they have to to put food on the table) at risk, not to mention corporations will simply replace the broken equipment.
He is preaching respect for the wild outdoor spaces, then he has the audacity to relate how he kills a little hidden rabbit just for the fun of it!
His philosophy of locking up wild places with no roads, so they are only accessible to the fit hiker is also very exclusionary.
Roads are tools, allowing old and young, fit and handicapped, to view the wonders and beauty of this country.
Yes teach love and respect of this beauty and of the wildlife, but allow people to personally experience wilderness and through this to develop this respectful attitude!
Edward Abbey's ode (or elegy as he calls it) to the desert, specifically Arches in Moab, the canyonlands of Utah, is like they say (they, in this case, is the New Yorker), an American masterpiece.
I visited Moab and Arches years 35 years after he wrote this book, 8 years ago, and true to form, I was one of the hoards of car-bound tourists he prophesied would take over the park.
As spectacular as that experience was, after reading this book, I'd give it back so Arches might remain as he saw it in the 50's and 60's.
I purposely read this while recently traveling to Arches National Park, the VERY place he lived/worked while penning these deep thoughts.
(IMHO, however, this is no comparison to Walden.) He first turned me off with his rant on "industrial tourism." He wants the National Parks wild, free from roads, bustling tourism.
However, we'll stretch a point for those too old or too sickly to mount a bicycle and let them ride the shuttle buses." Um, condescending much?Personally, I really appreciate the friendly trails and roads in our national parks.
Living in a small trailer, keeping an eye on the campers and tourists, he mostly relishes the quiet, beauty, and indifference of the desert under its hot sun.The book begins with his arrival in April and concludes with his departure at season's end in September.
The longest chapter is a rapturous account of a week spent rafting down the Colorado River, he and a friend among the last to see the canyons about to be inundated by the Glen Canyon Dam and the creation of Lake Powell.Along the way, there are ruminations on the meaning of it all and diatribes against urbanization, intrusive government, the tourist industry, and the destruction of wilderness.
I took his recommendation seriously, and have been thankful to him ever since.Having grown up in Idaho I had done a fair amount of backpacking in the mountains and forests, and I was somewhat of an outdoor enthusiast at the time.
I still love the mountains, lakes, rivers, and forests, but I now know that the deserts are also full of wonder.My favorite chapter told about Abbey's trip to Havasu Creek and Falls.
A few years ago I made the trip to Havasu Falls, and I found that the author's description of the place was perfect.
This book is wonderful, amazing, and has absolutely no story line.
I've guiltily thought and felt Abbey's rabid misanthropy for many years, and was pleased that he made it sound natural and reasonable.
The book also had the amazing affect of making me happy and sad at the same time.
That poingnant longing (particularly for the smell) of the desert felt almost unbearable at times.
It makes me want to go back there more than I can say, before more of it slips away from me.
I think that is the most important underlying message of the book.
This was my first Edward Abbey book. I read it while spending a somewhat lonely and isolatory summer conducting a reasearch project at my undergraduate school. After I read this book, I proceeded to clean out the library's entire collection of Abbey books. Abbey was completely irreverant, arrogant, and self-obsessed at times, and I love him. For anyone who's ever dreamed of escaping real life for a while and living all alone in the desert, this is the book for you. Well, because that's what Abbey did.
I agree with several of the other reviewers: Desert Solitaire is basically an Edward Abbey selfie. Not a bad looking face but it's inside that counts--not all of it bad, but enough of it to be cloying and smacking of hypocrisy.
A single cloud floats in the sky to the northeast, motionless, a magical coalescence of vapor where a few minutes before there was nothing visible but the hot, deep, black-grained blueness of infinity." The starkness of the desert brings out in him both an expansive appreciation for the natural sworld even at its most harsh, and a sardonic ambivalence about the impermanence of life and the folly of human aspiration.
One day he discovers a corpse beneath a scrubby tree and finds himself envying the dead man: "To die alone, on rock under sun at the brink of the unknown, like a wolf, like a great bird, seems to me very good fortune indeed.
I often re-read lines because they were that good.Abbey is also a true philosopher.
And when I was trying to think how I would describe this book, I went from "travel journal" to "manifesto" to "memoir" to "reflections on nature" and none really fit.
I preferred his personal thoughts chapters - only because some of his desert descriptions, though beautiful, went on for too long and were a bit too detailed about every turn and every rock on his hikes.
I love the desert and I've been fortunate to experience wilderness in the ways Abbey describes.
Desert Solitaire is a classic of citizen naturalist writing.
Abbey's connection to the desert is real and alive and vivid.I was less persuaded Abbey's anarchist-libertarian political views, which often just seemed irrational.
Abbey goes on at length regarding his dislike of roads in the national parks.
At the same time, he takes at least two trips by truck up mountains and down canyons on roads, trips that he could not have taken by simply hiking.
In the end, while I disagreed with Abbey's political views and thought his logic lacking in some places, I still enjoyed the book enormously and recommend it.
Some people are armchair historians.
He describes the eroded country, flash floods, runaway horses, footprints, quicksand, and the panic that comes when you are miles down a canyon with a dry canteen.
Abbey’s courage and virgin expeditions may come off as a bit cocky at times, but his admitted fumbling and poor planning keep these things in check.
His contact with people is minimal throughout, as you might expect, and is limited to taciturn boatmen and cowboys (I wondered until the end whether he even liked women, then a tender mention appears).
Desert Solitaire is about Abbey's time working at Arches National Park outside of Moab, Utah.
I have visited Arches several times as well as the other National Parks and Monuments in Utah including Zion, Bryce, Bridges, Canyonlands, Capitol Reef, and Glen Canyon, all of which Abbey refers to here.
Abbey's Desert Solitaire is my single week expanded into a year.
I picked this as my 1985 book but found out later that it was actually published in 1968 when I was one year old.
If you haven't visited Utah or any of these parks, please add it to your list of places to go and you will be awed by its beauty.
