https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2216760.The_Chronicles_of_Amber
Beskrajno uzivanje!
Verujem da je ova knjiga (serijal) pre 20, 30, 40 godina bila apsolutni hit.Ali danas, bar meni koji je citam prvi put jednostavno nije.Prvo zato sto je ovo u sustini YA (fantasy), a ja nisam ljubitelj tog zanra.Drugo zato sto je stil pisanja jednostavan, cesto naivan i u prvoj knjizi haotican.Posle prve knjige nisam verovao ni da cu je zavrsiti ali su se stvari u drugoj malo poboljsale pa sam ipak dao trojku umesto "predvidjene" dvojke.Likovi su prilicno lose uradjeni, pretpostavljam da to u to vreme za ovaj zanr nije ni bilo toliko bitno a ako ste mislili da je Kvout (Ime vetra) sebican, uobrazen, svemoguc itd.
(view spoiler)[Ono kad se Korvin probudi i nema predstavu gde je ni ko je - I really felt that. (hide spoiler)]Review: Roger pokidao.
I read the entire original series (the second series with Merle had not yet been published) over the summer before sixth grade. My parents had the Chronicles in two hardbound volumes, minus the dustjackets, so I had no idea what they were about when I started reading. It is very interesting to read them this way, with no warning that what seems to be a mysterious but mundane situation is going to transmute into a world-bending fantasy. This makes the reactions of the amnesiac protagonist much more resonant: like Corwin, the reader is unprepared to suddenly leave known reality behind.
I read more of it after work and finished the book in what was, for me, an amazingly short period of time.
What is most intriguing, however, is that the voice between the first five and second five books are very distinct.
It feels as if you are reading books written by two different people with very different voices.
This only serves to further immerse the reader in the stories being told.Thirty years later, the Chronicles of Amber still tops my list of favorite book series, not just within the fantasy genre, but within all genres.
Jedina vrednost ove knjige je u tome sto sam je dobila na poklon od prijatelja koje mnogo, mnogo volim.
Liked it well enough, but not as much as some other Zelazny novels, notably Lord of Light and Creatures of Light and Darkness.Having now read through books one and two of the saga, I find my original impressions still stand.The first few chapters of Nine Princes in Amber are fantastic, a tour-de-force of sustained irony and tension as the protagonist wakes up in a hospital with no memory and bluffs, connives, and forces his way through one dangerous encounter after another.
I recall being 13 at my grandmothers for Thanksgiving with this edition fresh from the Science Fiction Book Club.
Random's narrative in Sign of the Unicorn was being devoured by my eyes.Worlds flow like water for the members of the royal court of Amber.
This is the book series that made me want to be a writer.
Over the first 5 books there are more amazing memorable moments than I have time to describe.
The Chronicles of Amber may bend your mind but it will definitely not Disappoint.
2009: L'ho mollato lì sul tavolino, non per gravi colpe dell'autore, che anzi nelle prime 100 pagine ha dimostrato di possedere un'ottima immaginazione, ma perché la vicenda filava via piatta, senza particolari scosse, emotive e non.Lo riprenderò.2015: mi fermo al primo, Nove Principi in Ambra, abbandonato nuovamente verso la fine per le stesse impressioni di sei anni fa: assoluta mancanza di pathos nello stile, nella storia e nei personaggi, con la costante presenza di un senso di frettolosità al limite del superficiale.
Corwin wakes up in the clutches of someone claiming to be his sister. He has no memories but knows he must bluff his way into freedom. A few audacious con-man moves later, he is travelling between alternate worlds, alternately fleeing, fighting and helping his numerous siblings. They are the nobility of Amber, and the victor will rule them all--and all of reality. Corwin is a golden age hero, complete with bravado and silly gender issues, but his adventures are a lot of fun to read
Stond al zo lang op mijn wensenlijstje om de gehele sereie over Amber van Roger Zelazny te (her)lezen. Het begin is er en wat goed! Zie mijn recensie http://jkleest.nl/2016/08/negen-prins...
I think this is a creative and very well-written and I recommend it to anyone who has a creative mind and loves adventure. It was great :)
Yahu kitap baştan sondan müthiş kurgulanmış. Hayal gücü sınırsız ama sonu nasıl bitti öyle? Gel de diğer kitabı alana kadar bekle şimdi =(
The writing style and plot of The Chronicles of Amber was just great.
Посетете отново Амбър, загадъчна земя на приключения и романтика. Амбър, единственият истински свят. Всички останали светове, дори и Земята, са само негови Сенки - „Хрониките на Амбър – том 1” от Роджър Зелазни! Прочетете ревюто на "Книжни Криле": https://knijnikrile.wordpress.com/201...
Nine Princes in AmberI did it! It took me sooooo long to finish this book. Not because it’s boring, no. The reason is that it just didn’t matched with my life. But non the less, I finally managed to read this exciting book sitting in McDonalds and drinking hot aromatic coffee.
I hesitate to say anything until I have at least finished the second volume (if not the remaining books of the series), but will say now that the first book in this volume, Nine Princes in Amber, started out so slowly that I could not bring myself to read it.
However, while I do not insist on answers, I do insist on good writing, and my complaint with the few Zelazny's I have read, including these, are that I feel he never allowed himself to open up and be the good writer he was capable of being.
Prvi put sam pročitao "Devet prinčeva Ambera" krajem osnovne škole, sa 13 (ili možda 14) godina.
Nikada nisam pročitao ostale knjige iz serijala, ali (uprkos tome što sam zaboravio najveći deo priče) ostalo mi je par lepih sećanja na ovu knjigu.
Radnja se odvija izuzetno brzo, ali je to u ovom slučaju loše - događaji se smenjuju tolikom brzinom, da je čitava naracija svedena na puko nabrajanje.
Malo više detalja (u vezi svega) ne bi škodilo - ovako, interesovanje posle nekog vremena naglo opada, jer se fantastični događaji smenjuju još fantastičnijim događajima - i tako u nedogled.
These are quality fantasy fiction titles and easy reads--short, fast-paced, plenty of action and twists.
I took an immediate liking to Roger Zelazny's fanciful and at-times-archaic writing style; his words drew me in, placed me right alongside our bold protagonist, made me eager to read on to discover his success or failure.From what I've read so far, I would recommend the Amber Chronicles if you're at all a fan of somewhat traditional fantasy and can stomach a long-but-not-epic series (about 800 pages for the first 5 books).
Happily, it is easy to keep turning the pages.
The first book of the two collected in this volume,  Nine Princes in Amber was definitely stronger than the second, but both are very good. I really enjoy  Roger Zelazny's writing style, which mixes wit and irony into a more conventional fantasy environment (although the environment is far from merely conventional). The hero, like many heroes in the 'new wave' of Science Fiction, is flawed and often makes poor choices which isn't only more realistic, it is more suspenseful. I look forward to finishing the series.
Interesting, but not my favorite from this author. I felt like I was pushing myself to finish the books just to see how it all ended up.
The first of a series - (eventually) Ten books! But in this one, the reader can see hints of what made Ursula LeGuin's fantasies so popular- some themes of Knighthood, mirror worlds (the bulk of the book is set in Amber- but there is a mirror world called Rebma which gets time too). Also, some of the themes that make fans so thrilled with Game of Thrones are here....if you enjoy jockeying for a throne by several brothers, loyalty, violence, and lovely language, Zelazny's series may be one you like!
It opens with the first-person narrator waking up with amnesia; the book is probably best read without any further information except the reassurance that it will turn out to be fantasy eventually - so if you know you want to read it, don't read any more of this.Anyway, it eventually turns out that the main character is Corwin, a prince of Amber, the one true city, of which all other universes (including ours) are shadows.
Zelazny has the oddest writing styles I've ever seen. He can't write fights. He can't write time progression. And he sure as hell can't write character thought processes. He has plot holes I could put a fist through. And yet he has some of the most beautiful single lines I've ever read and a story/world that you can just fall into. It is so so strange to so clearly see the strengths and faults of a person's work.
A few of the minor plot points/expositions, in the ways in which details were added, broke the immersion for me. Maybe best enjoyed as a world-driven rather than a character-driven story. The faster-paced sections were better and largely worth a bit of grinding through the other bits.
One of my all-time favorite books.
Nine Princes of Amber was not as good as I remember but Guns of Avalon was still great.
Excellent
Завязка хороша, но не то чтобы что бы прям сильно увлекательна.
The first five are narrated by Corwin, a Prince of Amber; the second five are narrated by Merlin, Corwin's son.This is one of those immensely complicated book series that makes you sound like a lunatic when trying to describe it.Book One, "Nine Princes in Amber," starts with Corwin relating the events of his period of amnesia after a car crash, his search for his identity, and the incredible discoveries he makes.(view spoiler)[We will later discover that his narration is actually the story he related to his son, Merlin, on the edge of the Courts of Chaos.
