https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60088.Trouble_for_Lucia
Final one of the six books in this series.
I somehow ploughed through the collective 1800 pages or so in a couple of weeks - they go fast and are entertaining.
Summarizing the actual plot seems pointless, but I am still fascinated by the little details which situate the conservative small-town characters in the changing wider world around them.
At one point in this volume, after a particularly busy and not very successful day of social climbing, the central character thinks back on everything she undertook - "Quite like that huge horrid book by Mr. James Joyce, which all happens in one day," she reflected, as she stepped out of the car.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Still 5 stars - no matter what the situation, no matter how cringe-worthy the embarrassment, Lucia prevails!
This final Benson Lucia novel finds Lucia facing possible social ruin - she’s been elected mayor of Tilling and may finally have reached the end of her reign as self-elected Queen of Tilling society.
Has she finally gotten too big for her britches?
Will her supreme snobbishness finally be rebuffed?
Long live Lucia - I’ve treasured rereading her over the last year or so, and won’t let so much time pass before I visit her again.
A good end to the series - as the title says, Lucia runs into some trouble in Tilling & with Georgie Pillson but, ever indomitable, she rises to the crisis.
In need of a comic aberration?
Do admit--.Profuse literatus EF Benson, author of countless novels,ends his 6-series "Lucia" revue w this vintage petit point.Benson cocks an ear as bossy, annoying, horribly energeticLucia battles another suburbanite for social supremacy in yewee English town.
The crises, involving gardening, pets,bridge, bikes, choir, home entertaining, are harmless, butalways fraught w intrigue.
Benson makes it bracing; still,the biggest "B" of all is bickering.Lucia's aide-de-camp is husby Georgie who owns a ruby-coloredsuit, wears a toup and consoles hisself w embroidery.
Puhllleze : "Children are so sticky, especially after tea."Lucia is a platter of jam puffs.
Forego Lucia?
Endlessly delightful.
These books wouldn't be as much fun if any of the characters ever had sex.
My favorite character was Georgie Pillson.Trouble for Lucia was a satisfying conclusion to this series of novels, but somehow I feel that the characters go on and on in their odd little lives, and it's a shame that the chronicles had to come to an end.One note on the paperback copy I have: it was a used book and an older publication, and the pages snapped loose from the cover.
We've been working our way through the Lucia series together.
I've read all of them once before, on my own.)I'm not sure what it is about this series, but I love it.
This is not my favorite of the series, but I still enjoyed it very much, on the whole, and as the final book of the six, it's certainly well worth reading.I've seen the Lucia books described as shallow and populated with mean-spirited characters.
The book (and with it, the series) comes to an end rather abruptly, with little warning.
The little I've read about them suggests that they're a mixed bag.
This is the first Mapp & Lucia volume I have read in the sequence of books.
I did see the Television series many years ago and from what I remember, the characters in this book are far better presented and the humour more effective.
The ending, perhaps, is rather abrupt and there are some occasions when the humour seemed rather forced.
I found the character of the painter, Irene, annoying as she combined a thoroughly nasty streak with an adulation of Lucia.
I now plan to continue the series in the proper sequence and have little doubt but that I will find the books very enjoyable.
This particular Lucia novel may not be my favorite of Benson's series, but when I've read (or re-read) one of these books, I feel that I absolutely need to have more. It is definitely the potato chip syndrome at work.Lucia is certainly not everyone's idea of a heroine, but I love the way she saves the day over and over again in her village. She annoys and bullies her friends, but she makes life interesting and that's good enough for me. Bravo! Lucia.
Amusing but not as good as the earlier Lucia books. A bit like TV shows, that are kept going one series or so too long.
Last of the Mapp and Lucia books - I'll miss those silly people. This one is not quite as good as the rest - the characters and eccentricities have hardened into stereotypes and catchphrases - but gems like the saga of Blue Birdie make it worth reading.
Sadly, the last of the Mapp and Lucia books, (by E F Benson, anyway) I will miss them. I have very much enjoyed my visits to Risholme and Tilling.
Don't get me wrong: It's definitely> worth reading, especially when Lucia is stymied in her attempt to induce the crème of Tilling society to play bridge with betting so as to set a good example for the lower classes; when the "quaint Irene" Coles paints a scandalous parody of the Mapp-Flints, which goes on to win prizes and praise in London; and when Elizabeth Mapp-Flint turns green with jealousy as Lucia starts a bicycling craze.
(view spoiler)[That final party where Poppy's reappearance and favor chagrin the Tillingites -- except for Elizabeth, who has no shame -- simply brings joy to the soul.
Will hubris bring down the Queen of Tilling?This is the last in a series of six hilarious books about Lucia and her frenenmies in two small towns in pre-WWII England.
On the other hand, who but Lucia could get a bunch of middle age, sedentary people to ride bikes?Lucia's new status as Her Worship (mayor) is only part of the excitement in Tilling.
Can Lucia hang onto her husband?Ideally, you should read the whole series to get the full favor, although each book can be read as a stand-alone.
Several low-cost digital collections of the Lucia books have been offered, but sadly all have been taken down.
Just finished this sixth book in the Mapp & Lucia series, and laughed all the way through all six.
The competition between Mapp and Lucia is always front and center.
She is intent on making Tilling a center of intellectual and artistic activity.
Adversary Elizabeth Mapp has been appointed "Mayoress" by Lucia with the philosophy of "keep your friends close, and your enemies closer".
Life in Tilling becomes exciting when all these events are rippling through their lives at the same time.
However, BBC is filming a new Mapp and Lucia series to be shown in the fall of 2014.
just received a recommendation to try out this writer and his lucia series (6-books).
something tells me that the lucia series will be wittybrilliant little british novels like these .
he's written nearly 100 books and, as i'm goggling his name furiously, sounds like an extremely fascinating person -- oh!
to live that life: writer, archaeologist, figure skater, foreign office worker, humanitarian work for the red cross in greece, close friend of henryjames and then owner his house after his death, mayor of a small little town in east sussex, etc.
I have really been slogging through this book, and, I have to say, I am disappointed with this final installment of Benson's original series.
Also, I hate to see Mapp, who, in the author's descriptions of her, is full of venom and ill will towards all, triumph over Lucia in any way, and there is just too much of that in this book for me.
And why Lucia had to have a "mayoress" is beyond me as there was not a single official duty for her throughout the entire book.
A disappointing end to the series, I think, but I do have the Holt books to look forward to.
Has Lucia tarried in Tilling too long or is it me?
Her behavior in this last book of the series reminded me more of the first book, Queen Lucia, where she was really almost unbearable.
I think Benson possibly brought her down in this one only so that her final triumph is indeed triumphant and a bit of a miracle, namely a real live titled aristocrat under her very roof!
For a snob like Lucia, you can’t get too much better than that.
All in all, a satisfying finale to the series.
The books are all very well written and the larger than life characters are well penned.
I do feel however that Benson took several books until he had the characters in their unmistakable forms, for example Lucia was incredibly unlikable in "Lucia in London" and she seemed to care little for Pepinos infirmities, only using them for her own ends.
Also the stellar list of her acquaintances do not really square with the later books when she was the Mayor of Tilling.
I also contend that Benson ran low on ideas towards the end of the series.
These criticisms aside, the books are some of the wittiest of this era.
Abridged on 3 CDs and read by Miriam Margoyles.
Sixth and last of Benson's Mapp and Lucia novels about the battle between those ladies for social supremacy in the village of Tilling.
In this one Lucia is now Mayor and apparently triumphant in the social status stakes, but that doesn't stop Mapp plotting to unseat her.[return][return]I didn't enjoy this as much as the others, but I think this was mostly because I was ill while listening to it.
Still a lot of fun to be had in this gentle satire of social climbing and snobbery in 1930s England.
Margoyles again does a stunning job of bringing the characters to life.
I just love reading about the lives of these scheming, gossiping Tillingites. Never thought that such boring little lives could be so fun and engaging. Lucia doesn't get everything her way but in the end always reigns supreme. I was laughing so much I had a random stranger ask me what I was reading on the train. If you enjoy Austen, you'll enjoy this.
I continue to enjoy reading this series of books. Lucia and Mapp are the two grand dames of Tilliing and continue to try to out-do each other. I am still hoping that someone I love will fall in love with this series like I have. Lucia and Mapp are now my friends that I want to gossip about the way they gossip about each other. My mother would have LOVED these books!
The last of the 6 Mapp and Lucia books. I was a little lukewarm on the books when I started. After all, most of the characters are really quite horrible. I ended up not being able to stop reading, and by the end of this book, was quite distraught at the end of the series. The characters don't change, but they somehow became immensely endearing along the way, especially Georgie.
I am devastated to be finished with this series. I tried reading a little of The Freaks of Mayfair, but couldn't stick with it and ended up reading only the chapters that were character sketches of the characters in the Lucia series. My book world feels empty.
Might be my favorite in the series; now I need to decide if I will continue with the "modern" additions. My edition had a wonderful preface where the citizens of Tillings pondered their life, or lack there of, without E F Benson.
The last in the "Mapp & Lucia" series, but somewhat of a disappointment. But hurray for the brief re-appearance of Olga Braceley. Unless you're going to read all 6 of the "Mapp & Lucia" (in order) then I would recommend sticking just to the excellent "Queen Lucia" and "Mapp & Lucia".
EF Benson is one of those authors who can do soooo much with so little. And much like Georgie's reasoning to Lucia on why she should continue to do shopping (in order to find out what's going on), the tiniest minutia never gets old. I wanted the tragi-comedy of Blue Birdie to go on for books.
.
