https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/726759.I_Never_Had_It_Made
On April 15, 1947, Jackie Robinson played in his first game for the Brooklyn Dodgers, integrating Major League Baseball and alternating the course of 20th century American history.
As we are approaching Martin Luther King Day, I decided to read Robinson's autobiography I Never Had it Made, his poignant and candid account of his life in and out of baseball.
Yet, his words also remain true today- until all African Americans enjoy the same success as Jackie Robinson, he can say that he was a black man in a white man's world, and that he never had it made.
(oh how I wish I could) I know as sure as I'm sitting here that my dad was listening to the historic game on his transistor radio back on April 15, 1947 when Jackie Robinson made his major league debut as a Brooklyn Dodger.
(of course, that would never happen now.......)I love baseball, and now know when all Major League Baseball players wear the #42 on the backs of their jersey each April to honor Jackie Robinson, I will appreciate and remember all the obstacles and injustices this brave man endured even more.Highly recommend!
I was expecting this autobiography by Jackie Robinson to be mostly about his baseball career, but instead it captured his whole life, from his early childhood years, to well beyond his baseball career into his involvement in politics and the civil rights movement, including the people who were influential in his life.
He also wrote about the difficult challenges he and his wife had raising their children, particularly their oldest son Jackie Jr., who was a hero in his own right.
The title is certainly fitting and I have a much greater appreciation for this truly courageous American hero after reading this book.

I became more aware of the world and more political, and then I found out that he had been the first Black baseball player allowed to play in the Major Leagues.This trajectory of knowing, my initial disbelief that there was ever a time when Black people could not play baseball with white is due to the world that Jackie Robinson helped to create, and I give thanks looking back that this is the world I grew up in.
I cannot salute the flag; I know that I am a black man in a white world.
A pretty decent read written by Jackie Robinson.I usually do not read books about sports.
but this was a memoir written shortly before Jackie Robinson died in the early 1970s.Mr.Robinson wrote about his childhood and of course his years spent playing for the Dodgers what he endured being one of the first black men to play professional baseball.
Mr. Robinson talked a lot about how he was an advocate for African American rights.
Jackie Robinson spent time writing about his family Rachel is wife.
Mr. Robinson was direct in his beliefs and fights for civil rights for African Americans.
So many of the stories we have heard about Jackie over the years being told in the voice of the man who lived through these experiences is very powerful.
Only Jackie and Branch Rickey (and perhaps Clyde Sukeforth) really know what was said in that very important first meeting.
It is a story that shows Jackie's never-ending fight to deal with racism and the many instances when people were able to overcome their prejudices by simply seeing the way this great man lived his life.
Shockingly honest -- the black autobiography white liberals can't afford not to read!Given the smug, patronizing way Baby-Boom liberals from Anna Quindlen to Matt Groening have appropriated the Civil Rights movement as their own personal victory, it's genuinely shocking to hear the way Jackie Robinson defends Richard Nixon and ridicules JFK.
Yet that's only one of the shocking secrets you'll learn in this long-forgotten (or is that long-suppressed?) heroic narrative of the black experience.
Jackie tells it like it is, sure.
You can't afford not to read it!
It was just enough to satiate the sports fan in me, but because this book is so much more than just a sports book, it should be read with the objective of learning about other topics as well.This book certainly will teach the reader a lot about that era in American history and a lot about Jackie Robinson, the man.
Whether the reader likes baseball, politics, history or biographies, this book is an excellent read for anybody who enjoys these topics.
I made the mistake of starting, however, while teaching summer school, so I stalled out after about 75 pages and finally started reading again in late December.
But there was so much here that was unexpected: I didn't realize how powerful politically Jackie Robinson became in the years after baseball.
The last chapters of the autobiography, in which Jackie Robinson talks about his relationship with his oldest son and his family's grief are beautifully written and devastating and a powerful testament to the love of family.
From the early influences of family and friends, to his time at UCLA, to the army where he challenged racism and Jim Crow laws, Jackie Robinson traces his life to playing in the black leagues, frustrated by the abuses and restrictions of second-class status in professional baseball.
As Branch Rickey, president of the Brooklyn Dodgers, began to look around for a player to break the color barrier in 1946, he knew he needed a man of character who could withstand the pressures of his "Noble Experiment." Choosing Robinson gave both of them the chance to prove what they believed in.
The racism Jackie Robinson experienced is the same racism Blacks are experiencing in 2016, the 21st Century, it only looks slightly different.
You’ve got to admire a man who had the tenacity to accept the violence and hate of racism while building his career.If you’re a sports fan you’ll enjoy reading about Jackie Robinson’s trials and tribulations.
If you enjoy reading about history, you’ll enjoy reading about Jackie Robinson’s trials and tribulations.
If you’re Black, you might ask yourself how could Jackie Robinson put himself through all that just to play ball because you most certainly wouldn’t have!
Wonderful read whether you're an avid baseball fan or (like me) completely uneducated on the baseball world. Jackie Robinson's voice comes through loud and clear in a tone of humility, pride, and dedication. Robinson was a hero in so many ways and affected the history of the US in more ways than I ever imagined.
I read this with a seventh grader and it led to lots of great conversations for which I am very grateful.
Book Review for “I Never Had It Made”The story “I never had it made” is about a African American baseball player that couldn't really play because of his dark complected skin color. The main characters in this book are Jackie Robinson, The coach, and all the players that started to believe in him. Jackie Robinson wanted to prove he could be one of the best baseball players in the world as an African American. Jackie Robinson happened to run into some problems while becoming a major league baseba
Book Review for “I Never Had It Made”The story “I never had it made” is about a African American baseball player that couldn't really play because of his dark complected skin color.
The main characters in this book are Jackie Robinson, The coach, and all the players that started to believe in him.
Jackie Robinson wanted to prove he could be one of the best baseball players in the world as an African American.
Jackie also had a lot of adventures such as his first home run, and showing everybody in the crowd he is great baseball player.
My favorite character in this book would have to be Jackie Robinson.
Possibly the most bravest, compassionate, and outspoken man in the history of American sports, Jackie Robinson shares his entire life’s journey with the world in this groundbreaking autobiography, “I Never Had it Made.” Be prepared to hear the true story of #42, from his early years in California, the Army, and the Negro Leagues, to his ten years in professional baseball, along with a thorough commentary on his business and political aspirations following retirement as well as his plentiful contributions in the Civil Rights Movement and family life.
This is a frank and bracing book. It is shorter on the vivid anecdotes and gripping play-by-play details than one might expect. It's not a book about Robinson's reverence for the poetry of baseball. It's about making it, surviving it, paying the cost he was uniquely required to pay, and then making good on his prominence in his post-baseball career. The voice is talkative but not casual, serious but not affected. His accounts of the 1964 Republican convention, of his meetings with various national politicians, and of his early games with Montreal and Brooklyn are priceless.
This book was mainly how Jackie dealt with racism not really with playing baseball. If you're into seeing the main character having a lot of struggles but some motivation at the then I recommend this book.
Jackie Robinson was an awesome dude. His story was incredibly interesting, and his delivery in relating his experiences was enjoyable to read. He provided a great vantage point for the social and political world of the 1940-60s, from MLB to politics and the social rights movement. Would definitely recommend to anyone interested in history, politics, social rights, and of course baseball.
Ross Williams Period 2  Jackie Robinson autobiography was a astonishing book. This told about a courageous young pioneer to break the color line. He set the tone for generations to come? He inspired young black men like me to be able to fight against the color barrier. He was a true sports pioneer that allowed people like me of color to be able to enjoy playing sports. I love Jackie Robinson because he wasn't afraid to go against the grain. Also he valued education and he was very smart and athl
He inspired young black men like me to be able to fight against the color barrier.
He was a true sports pioneer that allowed people like me of color to be able to enjoy playing sports.
All I ask is that you respect me as a human being." Page 123 I believe this quote corresponds with the essential question of "How is language manipulated?" I say this because back then language was manipulated in a way to belittle and discourage the black race.
Although Jackie referred to them as Sr. Giving them the respect they wanted even though he wasn't getting it in return.
It covered everything I was hoping to learn about Jackie Robinson.
I feel that the novel was more fact heavy than propaganda heavy because he is stating things that actually happened to him, he did not have someone else look up information on him.
Hearing about the bad events that happen to Jackie Robinson could make the reader feel bad for him.
On the other hand, as Robinson overcomes these struggles he ends up breaking a color barrier and changing the game of baseball for future generations.
When the reader sees that Robinson overcame struggles it could put them in the mindset that they could do the exact same thing .
The story of how the first black man came to play modern major league baseball is a familiar one - so much so that everyone has heard the major points.
However there is something undeniably powerful in hearing the story in the first person.
Jackie Robinson was interested in a lot more than baseball, and this book reflects that.
More than half the book covers his post-altheltic years, and gives a fascinating insight into the civil-rights struggles of the fifties through the early seventies.
Robinson never felt completely at ease with any black rights movement.
Robinson talks very candidly about his family struggles.
I've learned so much about the man who changed a sport that is my life today, baseball.
Jackie Robinson grew up in the south with his mother a 4 sibilings.
Playing all sports, basketball, football, track and field and last but not least BASEBALL.
But baseball became the soul of Jackie Robinson.
Becoming the first colored person to play in the big leagues (with the big dogs).
Jackie describes the hardships he goes through as baseball makes a huge transition.
In the end he's a hero and a person who did not only change baseball but also the world.
It is an Autobiography of the life of Jackie Robinson from when he was a kid all throughout his life and career until he himself had Children with his wife Rachel.
Through all of the name calling and racial segregation, Jackie, with the help of his guide Mr. Rickey, was able to set aside his anger and remain internally calm.
With this in mind, he was able to become one of the greatest baseball players of all time and probably one of the most important people of all time.
Without Jackie Robinson we may have never broken the racial barrier in sports.
I gave it 2 stars, not because Jackie was not a fascinating man who had incredible stories, but he is not a writer.
I could have maybe followed the time line of his life better if he had just told his story in chronological order, rather than jumping back and forth.
Jackie had a lot of interesting things to say, but I found the book very difficult to read.
It jumped back and forth in time and dates.
I did cry all the way through the last chapters as he talked about Jackie Jr.'s death.
I cried all the way to the very last page.
I'm a sucker for stories about people handling themselves with dignity and humility and courage while enduring very difficult trials.
I decided to read Jackie's book and was most interested in the story behind him breaking the color barrier in baseball and his relationship with Branch Rickey, etc.
After that, Jackie goes onto share his involvement in politics and various civil rights organizations which continues to highlight his fighting spirit.
Jackie truly had "the guts not to fight back" because he knew the greater good at stake and, for that, he has my respect!
I read this to find out about Robinson's politics and his Freedom Bank in Harlem and the book did not disappoint on those fronts. Robinson was a black Republican who was disillusioned during the 1968 election by the turn the Republican party took. He's also frank about what it was like to be a black banker. The stuff about baseball was really interest too, but I guess the other stuff was more up my ally.
I think this is a really good book
This book is a must read for anyone studying the civil rights' movement because Jackie Robinson is am American icon for far more than what he did on a baseball diamond. Eye opening second half of the book: Malcolm X, Martin Luther King; Branch Rickey vs. the O'Malley Family; Harlem; Nixon; LBJ; Bobby Kennedy...it is fascinating. Much to be admored. I wish I saw him play the game.
You HAVE to read this book. I tell people this all the time!!! The way Robinson describes the relationship with his son is heart-wrenching and what happens at the end will surprise you. He goes way deeper than the baseball. I reread passages from this book to help with my writing esp. with father-son relationships.
