https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25104.The_Wake
A weak ending for such impressive series Creative Team:Writer: Neil GaimanIllustrators: Michael Zulli, Charles Vess, & Joe J MuthCovers: Dave McKeanLetterer: Todd Klein DREAM OF A FUNERAL AND...  Nobody died. How can you kill an idea? How can you kill the personification of an action? This final volume (from the regular series while there are still some other TPBs yet to read about) is dedicated by Gaiman to Dave McKean for his amazing work doing the covers of all single comic book issues o
Obviously you can’t lengthen a funeral more than what it’s done here, but again, you are left with undeveloped elements of the story, like a very, very, VERY important “first” meeting and at least one day or one “first story” after the funeral to feel the change in thrones’ styles since it’s quite obvious that the “new” king will manage things in a different way, better?
Brilliant. So my review that took me really long to write somehow got deleted... :( Hate that. (Actually, it almost got lost for the second time, thankfully I was smarter this time and copied it.)So, this is it? The end? It seems almost...sad. But definitely strange. Like I should hold a wake. Or maybe I already did.   "Everybody’s here. You’re here.""You were there." I finally got to the point that I could finish this series. And this remains my favourite comics series and the best thing Neil G
(Actually, it almost got lost for the second time, thankfully I was smarter this time and copied it.)So, this is it?
I finally got to the point that I could finish this series.
Unfortunately, I had a bit of a hard time remembering what happened at the end of the previous part but thankfully I managed to remember enough to enjoy this one.
How can you kill the personification of an action?""Then what died?
I hope that one day I will be able to re-read this series and it will be like remembering a long time forgotten dream.
Half of it consists of the “wake” itself (Morpheus’ wak, funeral services, and related events) and the other half of three stand-alone tales that provide a philosophical commentary on the life and death of Dream.The wake itself will be a moving and interesting for most faithful reader of the series, as we reacquaint ourselves with most of the characters we remember—and a few we have forgotten about entirely.
The last tale (“The Tempest”) is about Shakespeare and the writing of his final play, and makes a fitting conclusion to series.I loved the series, hated to see it come to an end, and am already experiencing withdrawal.
An appropriately contemplative denouement for a series that, when considered as a whole, suggests that Neil Gaiman is either: 1) A certified genius whose ability to blend myth, folklore, imagination, social issues, and pop culture puts him at the absolute apex of storytelling masters working today, regardless of medium; or2) An authentic whacko whose ingestion of psychotropic fungus is of such heroically epic proportions that it would slay an entire army of genetically engineered giant yaks with enough psilocybin left over to enable a tone deaf monkey to produce a musical output that would put the Grateful Dead to shame.
a word of warning : might be a major spoiler to read on if you don't know what went on in the previous volume ( The Kindly Ones ). (view spoiler)[ Morpheus dies, and is replaced as the incarnation of Dream by Daniel. (hide spoiler)]The Wake is a farewell, a last gathering of all the oddball characters that accompanied us into the realm of the Lord of Dreaming, but also a celebration of the power of imagination. Sadness prevails, inevitably, at saying goodbye to the Endless family, to the denizen
a word of warning : might be a major spoiler to read on if you don't know what went on in the previous volume ( The Kindly Ones ).
(view spoiler)[ Morpheus dies, and is replaced as the incarnation of Dream by Daniel.
The Tempest  is a companion piece to A Midsummer Night Dream, two plays commissioned by Morpheus from the Bard of Stratford-upon-Avon.
Less about the actual play, and more about the condition of the artist, about the power of stories, about legacies and endings - it is easy to see why Gaiman has chosen it for closing the collection.
I thoroughly enjoyed this series and I'm quite sad that it's over.I've been reading the books since September and I've never read such creative, interesting, philosophical graphic novels with such great characters. It was interesting to see all the stories come together in the end.
Probably 4.5 stars.
I really loved this until the final piece The Tempest.
I wasn't a big fan of that section.
I think I might like it more on a re-read for meaning, but it was a bit lackluster on first impression compared to the emotion of the other sections.
However I'm rounding up to 5 stars because Gaiman.“Just remember, what the French say.
No, probably not the French, they've got a president or something.
The Brits, maybe, or the Swedes.
You know what I mean?""No, Matthew.
The king is dead.
The king is dead.
Long live the king.”
The final volume in the Sandman series is a bit odd, and I'm wavering between giving it 3 and 4 stars.
The first half of the book deals with the wake held for Morpheus, and is rather touching and satisfactory wrap-up to the series.
The final half, however, seem anticlimatic and out of place.
The issues about Hob and Shakespeare do have an "end" feeling to them and appropriately concludes their stories that were started in earlier volumes, but I'm not sure what the issue about the exiled advisor to the Chinese emperor is doing here.
In any case, although it's not the best volume, its first half is very well done.
You’d think that it being a wake, a celebration and remembrance of the passing of someone, I found it filled with not only with melancholy, but an equal amount of empathy and gentle humor at the lives of all beings both mortal and immortal, god or faithful companion.
He declines the name of Morpheus, content to be called Dream, and this volume details his experiences as he deals with the aftermath of Morpheus’ passing, the huge host of mourners and well-wishes, reviving many of Morpheus’ loyal servants, and finally meeting his siblings for the first time, if that makes sense.
After being lulled by the nocturnes, after trekking the steep places that only exists when we slumber, after journeying with the good and the bad and the in-betweens, after hurrying to and from the heart of the Dreaming, there will come a time when we need to open our eyes.
It’s been a great series, but just like what the Kindly Ones once said in the previous tome, “For good or bad, it’s done.” All-things-shall-perish-from-under-the-sky and all that.Daniel Hall as the new incarnation of Dream is still adjusting, and it’s understandable.
I think a spin-off or a series zeroing in on the new Dream would be great, too.
This is the end.Well volume 10 is more of an epilogue.This was intriguing series, sure it had low points but when it was good it was among best graphic novels and among best Gaimans work overall.Only thing that was bad throughout the series where illustrations, there where several different illustrators but I don't think any of them did a good job.Overall rating for the whole series:4.5 stars
So it's over. I feel a bit sad that it is. And especially because The Tempest arc was so beautiful. Neil Gaiman knows how to break your heart. And melt it. And do many other things to it. Bloody bastard. Sigh. I need a rehab, I think.
Στο The Wake πέφτουν οριστικά οι τίτλοι του τέλους, αν και το πραγματικό τέλος, η τελεία στην διήγηση, ήταν ο ένατος τόμος, The Kindly Ones.Τι ήταν, τελικά, το Sandman; Ήταν ένα κόμικς φαντασίας; Ένας κόμικς τρόμου; Ήταν ένα από τα καλύτερα κόμικς που μπορεί να διαβάσει κανείς; Ήταν ένα μεγάλο λογοτεχνικό κατόρθωμα, που ξεφεύγει από τα όρια φόρμας του; Δεν είμαι σίγουρος αν υπάρχει κάποιο ανθρώπινο δημιούργημα που να μπορεί να ανταπεξέλθει στις προσδοκίες που δημιουργούν οι φήμες του.
“That which is dreamed can never be lost, can never be undreamed.”  Oh wow. What an ending.
Also, the story goes on about how Daniel, Hippolyta Hall’s son, ends up taking over Dream’s former position as Lord of the Dreamworld and how the other characters, mainly Matthew the Raven react to the new lord.After reading this heartfelt volume about the characters agonizing over the death of Dream, I found myself feeling sad too, for not only Morpheus’ death, but also because of the fact that this might be the last time we see more adventures from Neil Gaiman’s “Sandman” series.
The only Neil Gaiman stuff I'd read before was American Gods but I will definitely add him to my favourite authors list on what I've read so far.Covering the funeral and the Wake of Morpheus, or Dream of the Endless we watch as the Endless prepare and the people in the dreaming travel to the Wake, there's lots of people we've seen before and we see how Dream affected them all.
Fantastic closure to the series, backed with terrific artwork and there's also some additional material about Hob Gadling, the man who never dies and William Shakespeare who completes his pact with Dream and writes his final play for him.
While it's true the series could've ended with the preceding volume, I'm glad we're granted this final one with its gentle pace, its thoughtfulness, its forgiveness.
(Near the end, I realized it's the only volume without even a bit of gore.
Though the previous instances of explicit horror were never gratuitous, the lack is probably another positive for me.)Because of the frisson I experienced at Shakespeare's talking of "backstage" while not realizing where Morpheus calls home and because of the affinity I felt with this volume, I'm giving it 5 stars.
Of course, without the preceding nine volumes, its beauty would mean nothing....
A beautiful melancholy finish World: The art has been amazing since the start of the series and it is the same here.
The world building is so utterly beautiful in this final arc.
Story: The story us melancholy and a beautiful thing.
The stories here the characters and the tales they tell are all simply just phenomenal.
Characters: Beautiful and nuanced.
Melancholy and reflective, a new beginning has begun and a new chapter is written it'd just pure poetry and these characters just awesome.
I can't express how amazing this series has been.
Kraj apsolutno kakav dolikuje ovakvom serijalu.Neki konci i krajevi koje je ostavljao nevezanim u prethodnim tomovima, ovde eksplodiraju u svom smislu i nameri.Jednom rečju ODUŠEVLJEN
One of the Endless, Morpheus, has ceased to be, and there is to be a gathering of his family, dreamers and other mourners to commemorate his life.
As preparations for the funeral begin, Daniel Hall, who has become the new Sandman, meets with Morpheus’s family.
It concludes with The Tempest, a deal had been reached between Morpheus and William Shakespeare long ago, and this is a fitting conclusion to it.Whilst this was still classic Sandman, it didn’t seem to have the flow and continuity of the earlier books, feeling a bit disjointed and like it was stories dragged from hither and thither.

Qué sensación de vacío mezclada con la satisfacción de haber degustado una de las mejores obras no solo del cómic sino de la literatura.
'El Velatorio' no es sólo una conclusión magnífica, sino la más clara demostración de la maestría de Gaiman para jugar con la narrativa y sus arcos argumentales.
Una obra maestra.Quiero destacar en este tomo el dibujo a cargo, en su mayoría, de Michael Zulli.
No soy ninguna experta en este apartado, pero es uno de los dibujantes que más me ha gustado de todo la saga, por darle a estas historias finales el toque perfecto.
el resto del tomo no es que esté exento de calidad pero si un poco de relevancia, excepto el último número de despedida "la tempestad", que sirve para poner un broche de oro a una serie extraña, inolvidable y excepcional.Los capítulos "domingo de luto" y "exiliados" desentonan un poco y da la impresión de que están ahí sólo para llegar al número 75 al final, para cerrar con un número más o menos redondo.
El último capítulo al menos sirve a modo de epílogo, pero a esos dos no les veo la utilidad ni la conveniencia, en todo caso, no empañan de ninguna forma el final de la historia, y si así l decidió Gaimna, bien decidido está.
It was a sad and deeply nostalgic first few volumes, even when there wasn't any actual recapitulations going on. It's the nature of a wake, or a waking from a dream. It was the letdown, the reminiscence, the transition that made these so powerful.Death is not the end, and indeed, it is not the end at all, but the waking from the dream.Pure poetry.Of course the remaining volumes do much the same, especially the last with our very own Shakespeare, with Prospero breaking his staff. Ah yes, the strings become clear now, don't they?Excellent and beautiful writing, all of it.
A delightful end to the Sandman and one I will remember fondly.
The volume underachieves with some of the rest of the stories.
More like 30 years and not even truly that (ask any British colonial from this time that dealt with BEI company).
I did appreciate the fact that it was pointed out that it was African tribes that sold defeated enemies to the British to be sold as slaves.
Another fact rarely mentioned is that slavery never really went away.
Also look to see WHO is doing the trafficking.
Still the overall quality of these stories weren't to the caliber of the previous volumes.
How ends should be.
I absolutely loved this series. So wonderful, dark, challenging, fantastic , poetic and beautiful!I am really sad to leave this world and those wonderful characters.A new favorite.
**heartbroken**I'll keep dreaming.
In the last book, where that happened, I was disappointed.
I don't think readers really understand the Orpheus thing, because while it looked like a big deal, no one said very much about it.
So why did this really have to happen?And, this is important, but controversial: I don't think Dream is strong enough of a character to pull us into a tragedy with him.
The art in this volume is the most wonderful in the whole series, though, a huge improvement over the solidly icky looking Book 9.
And Matthew the raven's angst was really good.I wonder what the heck is going to be in Book 11.
