https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13810.Magician
I have never read a book that jumped ahead so many years in my life.
Lol. It makes me wonder though how the other books are going to go with Pug. I'm assuming he's in the next two books with the others that weren't killed in this book.
I'm worried about what his going on with Tomas.I still love so many of the characters and I was starting to list them all and thought that list was getting too big so...
In the beginning, Pug was a slave for so many years to the Tsurani and that is where he met Laurie.
Pug and his friends have lived 8 years after the faithful moment the two best friends, Tomas and Pug, were separated and faced their very different paths.
Tomas was gifted with a magical armor, while Pug was taken to the world of the invaders and after being a slave for a while, was sat on a journey to discover his limits in the magical arts.
However, I enjoyed the story as a whole and look forward to the next book:-) Now I wish you all Happy Reading and many more wonderful books to come!!!
But as the book progressed and Pug got more entrenched into their society, I began to see the Tsuranni not as an absolute evil but as people who have never had cause to change their ways.
There was a particular moment during Pug's training that reminded me of another fantasy series - the Wheel of Time.
All of the characters from the first book showed incredible growth.
The sorcerer Macros the Black played a major role in the events of this book and there were times when I wondered if he is in fact on of the bad guys.
Still great the second time! I only read the first four the first time around. I plan to read them all now.Warning to readers! Book 1 and 2 really are "book one" of a trilogy. Frequently they are combined into one volume (Magician) If you only read the first book, this is not a case where you get the complete first part of the story. You really need to read a least the first two before you will be able to tell if this story is for you or not!
The young men of the first book, Pug and Tomas, grow up and by second book’s end are reunited.
Several things felt a little off to me—that both youngsters should have such an easy time becoming very powerful men, that Macros would instigate treachery rather than negotiate with the Midkemians & Tsurani, and that everyone at book’s end would just be so accepting of that whole situation.
I look forward also to his altered relationship with Martin Longbow.In many ways, the plot is tied up with a nice bow at the end of book 2 and one wonders if Feist meant to go on writing the series.
Good news - 15ish years later I still enjoyed this story.
Tied up in this are the 'political parties' representing the aspirations of the noble families, such as the Blue Wheel Party, the Jade Eye Party, the Golden Flower Party, the Party for Progress, the Party for War and others.Then there is the Assembly of Magicians or Great Ones.Milamber is to play a large part in creating great changes that will see a climax to the war between Tsurani and the Kingdom.
Oh hell yes.  Violence, betrayal, sex, intrigue, magic, mystery, romance, humor, and bone deep joy. Every time I thought the story would be bogged down by a character’s trial, or politics, something would be solved and another plot point would carry on. This book flowed.  I can’t say enough good things about this story. If you’ve never read these works of Feel-Good-Fantasy you should.
When Pug became a master magician, my empathy for him drained away completely.
In fact, Arutha should be main character, not Pug or Tomas.
Even if one were to forgive the problem of Gary-Stu-ness in the book's many characters, its inconsistent pacing, pointless digressions and anticlimactic emotional scenes still stick out like a sore thumb and give rise to the frustration of the readers who actually care about these things (as I read this book, I almost forgot why the Tsurani was the enemy, since there was so very many chapters of pure digression).
4/5; 4 stars; A-I really enjoyed the characters and the adventure in this book. It seemed quite a bit tighter than the first book in the series. I was going to read book three now but think I will switch to Daughter of the Empire to get the viewpoint from Kelewan during the Riftwar.
But his fortunes change and he is taken in by a noble Tsurani family.
He is taken by the Mages of Tsurani to be trained as a Great One.There are many other characters from high lords and Kings to noble lords who seek to improve their nation whilst navigating the treacherous political world of Tsurani politics.
There are also political games going on in Midkemia, as an ill king leads to various nobles trying to take the throne.
But the overall story is still quite good.
Er no not to my taste, but it is a good story.
The character names (in both worlds) are not complicated, so they are easily remembered, something I really appreciate when reading fantasy.After reading Magician: Master, I realized the first book was focused on development of the characters, political climate and settings for the saga.
Great characters, warriors, magic, interesting creatures and races and combat.
If you were not really thrilled with the first book "Apprentice", I would HIGHLY recommend this second book.
For other highly readable fantasy authors, try R.
The Dragonlance series is a classic so be sure to read them in order, Dragons of Autumn Twilight is the first book.
Feist may have been one of the first to do these things, but there wasn't much more to the book.
It was fine, but not exhilarating, and I've seen the "young man joins a band of heroic travellers; discovers destiny" paint by numbers a million times.
I was taken to task by some people for not recognizing Feist as a pioneer in the field.
But being first is not all there is.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Loved this one. It's better than the first book. My favorite scene is when Milamber gets mad. Reminded me of Rand in the Wheel of Time.
This book involves more political intrigue and less action than Magician: Apprentice but the author manages to make the political intrigue interesting enough to make me not lose interest in reading the novel.The one major issue that I had with this novel is that I felt the character development was a bit lacking.
I felt the author could have done a better job of making his characters more approachable.Overall, I felt Magician: Master was a good but not great novel that is a fitting end to the events that started in Magician: Apprentice.
But keep in mind that, for Feist, a fleshed out character is not much more than cardboard with a crayon mustache scribbled on it.Master is sometimes well-paced and sometimes a bore.
I rarely feel as if I really want to read the next chapter.After spending some time with Kasumi and his family and developing some very real tension and mystery involving the purposes behind Pug and Laurie’s rescue and good treatment, Kasumi’s training in Midkemian ways, and Pug’s love for a slave girl, Feist against cripples the story by changing everything without warning.
4.5 stars.
It was a good second book in the rift war series.
I found myself wanting to order the next book as I got closer to finishing this one.
I really enjoyed the overall feel of the book.
The world building and characters are great!
The only way I can describe this book is an old feeling wholesome story.
It really made me feel like I was transported back in time to when this story took place.
The ending was a little strange.
It didn’t leave off with as much of a cliffhanger as I would have expected.
I can’t wait to continue this story!
The second half of Magician became increasingly dark as I approached the climactic end to the Kelewan-Midkemian Riftwar.
While everything seemed wondrous and adventurous in the first half of the novel (also known as Magician: Apprentice), I felt the oppression of circumstances, the collision of events and the machinations of a magician previously thought trustworthy.
A couple of scenes stood out as a bit over-the-top and stretched the envelope of believability: (view spoiler)[Milamber's reaction to the Imperial Games and Tomas' ability to overcome a dead dreaded god-like being with his boyish mental fortitude.
Good fantasy. This is the second time I've read this book, the first being about 20 years ago. Certainly, it's better the second time around.I was glad to see a return to the Kingdom from the far off lands the novel begins with. Mostly, you see good character development, and even short passages having getting a little misty at the way the characters interact and care for one another. It's good writing. I look forward to reading the 3rd volume soon.
Apesar de Pug começar por ser um escravo no mundo dos Tsurani, ao longo do tempo vai aprendendo a conhecer e a controlar o seu poder, que antes tinha tantas dificuldades.
No entanto trava uma luta interior, pois com o artefacto dado pelo dragão, vem grandes poderes de tempos muito antigos, e que os Elfos (uns dos seres mais antigos do mundo) não querem recordar.
Mas vencendo a sua luta, Tomas tem um papel importante a desempenhar na guerra contra os Tsurani.Ao contrário do livro anterior, Feist, dá importância a Arutha desde o inicio do livro.
Unlike Pug's home world of Midkemia, on Kelewan, magic users are revered, as they form the basic protective and governing body of the Empire (Star Wars fans, think Jedi Knights).Pug, now called Milamber, continues his training until he becomes a full-fledged Great One, and one of the most powerful at that!
These are grown-up issues treated with grown-up finesse, and in a memorable scene where Milamber/Pug returns to the princess he forcibly left in Magician: Apprentice, the reader sees exactly how much of his childhood has been stripped away, leaving the adult.
So, too, does Feist's meticulous storytelling follow this model, sloughing off the final remnants of Pug's childhood for the adult he becomes.
While I appreciated the fast pacing story in Magician: Apprentice, that book has less plots and subplots compared to this one.
I could not even find myself liking Pug and Tomas because their character grew exponentially (if not changed entirely) until I barely recognized them anymore.
Pug became this wizard Littlefinger character and Tomas became...a total jerk.
No, I know the author said more than twice(!) in his characters' dialogue that the reason Macros did what he did will be explained later when blablabla, the thing he did still annoy me alot.
Those stuff really bug me I even don't want to talk about Pug's stupid romantic plot.
Thankfully a Total Absence of Campfire SongsA well realised, clever political story.
That said it really was a take in two acts for me.The first act made me feel that the author was reading LOTR while he was writing.
I would have liked to read more about the part played by metal and mining.
I thought that was the most interesting idea in the book.As an aside; if the author was reading LOTR whole writing this.
Soft focus coronation scenes that went on just that bit too long are a features of both.On the whole a good read with some great ideas.
Thankfully a total absence of campfire songs though.
As much as I loved 'Apprentice' this was a worthy follow up & ended satisfactorily.
I didn't feel that way when I finished 'Apprentice'.
I think I'm going to pick up the Empire trilogy when I start to re-read the series again, although I'm waiting to see what Mr. Feist has to say about the matter.
(He's doing a Q&A in the Fantasy Book Club Series group where we're reading this now.) I may or may not pay attention to his recommendation depending on his reasoning.
I certainly don't think I'll wait until July, when the group has it scheduled to read.;-)
Su predecesora me dejo un estupendo sabor de boca de 5 estrelllitas, ella ha hecho que la 2 parte sea sacrificada por la imposibilidad de mantener la novedad.Aquí mezcla fantasía épica con espada y planeta, lo que mola mucho.
Continúa siendo coral, desarrollando a los personajes en su moral y personalidad, pero poco como elemento de acción.
La mejor parte son las del mago, que fue rastrado por los extraterrestres y llevado a su mundo, el que me recordó bastante al de Edgar Rice, su historia es al más puro estilo pulp molón.EL tema amoroso necesario para rellenar y tocar la patata es empalagoso.
Very good.
“In a hole in the ground there lived a hobbit.” “It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife.”“Call me Ishmael.”“The dying slave lay screaming in the courtyard.”Obviously, you can play a bit with the format – Austin’s thought requires not only an extra clause but an adverb - but if anyone has ever assimilated the lesson that the opening line should be simple, unadorned, and sharp and put it to practice – it’s Feist.
I wasn't sure if I'd like Magician: Master as I had mixed feelings towards Magician: Apprentice. I enjoyed this one much more than I thought. The changes in Pug where huge. His character grew in confidence and depth. My favorite part was his confrontation with the Tsurani Warlord. The arc with Tomas and the elves disappointed me. It was a lot of build up with minimal payoff. Overall a solid 4 stars. I see more Raymond E. Feist books in my future.
Here in the second book, Pug has been captured and transported to the world of Kelewan where his magical talents are also discovered and then honed.
The 2 thirteen year olds have now been separated by events and Tomas has also gained a certain magical power that pushes him to become a champion of the world of Elves and ultimately to become the consort of the Elven Queen.
Meanwhile, Pug too has been married and become a magician of notable power.This series will remain one of my favorites, alongside The Lord of the Rings by Tolkien, the Chronicles of Narnia by Lewis and the Belgariad by Eddings.
Magician: Master is the second half of a story.
One could possibly read it without reading the first book, but it would make a lot more sense knowing the first half.
Overall, I thought this second half wrapped up very well, but also left me wanting to read more about this world and the people in it.
Luckily for me, I have a whole lot of reading to do before I run out of books set in Midkemia and even several in Kelewan.
