https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/734542.Freight_Train
A fun book for really young children (3 or under). Very simple, no real plot but lots of fun sound effects you can make and very colorful illustrations of the train. can be used as a way of color recognition. even the younger children seemed bored of this one fairly quickly. 2.5 stars.
With forceful economy of words, Donald Crews introduces us to the train-less track, clearly missing its soul.
The train morphs into a rainbow blur as it picks up velocity, hurtling down the tracks.
The train is in its element wherever tracks can go, certain to deliver its cargo where promised.
The cars vanish from our sight as they plow onward toward their destination, the same route taken by engineers for years and years.
Donald Crews writes well, but his artwork is a phenomenon.
The steam pouring up out of the engine car is a wonder to behold, and the blurry train at maximum speed is even more astonishing.
A wonderful book about trains that I'm glad I picked up.
A Caldecott Honor book, it is one of our favorite train books we've read.
Bright colorful train cars kept my preschoolers riveted, as well as the different scenery, such as the bridges and tunnels the trains go through.
Also, a nice and unusual touch were the pages with the train moving.
The illustrations showed the cars as blurred so it looked like a big rainbow moving along.
We just picked it up from the library, and already we've read it several times.
Too easy for a level 1 reader, but a great read out loud book.
Beautiful illustrations and a short and sweet text.
Very, very simple text. A little boring for my kindergarteners.
Cute book!
This is a simple book about a freight train that contains simple text, bright colors and an object that generations of children find fascinating-trains. The book itself can be used in a variety of themed storytimes, as it encompasses colors and movement just to name a few themes.Find Freight Train at the Westminster Public Library!
My nice loves this book, the colors are great, perfect for toddlers.
This book was very simple in its narrative, It is intended for a very young audience. Beginning readers would be the primary audience. I can also picture Parents reading this book to toodles. The Colors are very vivid. We see the journey of this train and as you flip the pages you can almost feel the movement of the train. If you use your kindle instead of the book the movement becomes come fluid. I would recommend this book to parents of young readers and early childhood educators.
Well, the colors are vibrant in the book.
I wanted to have a book focusing on colors.
I cut rectangles out of construction paper using colors represented in the book.
Then I cut out wheels in the colors--two wheels for each train car.
I cut out thin rectangles from brown paper for the track.
Then as each train car was introduced, I taped up the corresponding wheels.
So for the second group I stayed seated and they were MUCH calmer.11/19/18 SS and SD discovered that I had added the big book version of this to our home collection.
My son told me a story about a train book that he was reading to a dinosaur that turned into a robot.
I bought this edition because the text is so simple it seemed a great way to introduce my son to a language besides English.
I've done this with a couple of other books (e.g., Goodnight Moon), and it's been pretty successful.Freight Train does have very simple text.
I'm pleased that Freight Train is a gateway book for my little boy because, although the text is simple, it is not dull.The illustrations in Freight Train are beautiful, bold, colorful and perfect.
A teacher could read the book, and ask the children to name the colors of the different parts of the train.
After reading the book the children could then paint pieces to their own freight train.
For Kindergarten to First grade this book could be used to introduce the parts of a train.
Before reading the book the teacher could ask the students what pieces make up a train.
Because most kids love trains this book should spark an interest with most of the students.
Because the text is simple this could be a book that is used as an assessment tool to see where different students are with their reading ability.
The book does not contain many words, but it is knowledgeable, as for it teaches the children all about the different parts of the freight train and the colors that it associates with.
Teachers will be able to teach children that trains play a big part in transportation, too and not just the typical cars that people drive in every day.
There are no people in this book, so there is not much diversity; however the freight train travels through towns, cities, mountains, and near bodies of water.
This realistic fiction picture book will show children that trains travel everywhere.
"Freight Train" begins by introducing each part of a train through different color variations (Red, Orange, Yellow, Green, Blue, Purple, and Black).
Once all the pieces have been introduced, the reader takes a journey through several locations where the train is passing through.
Each page contains no more than five words, making it a great source for beginners.
The conclusion leaves the mind to wonder and imagine where the train has gone next...The simplicity of the text is matched with the striaght-forward illustrations of this story.
This book is a great example of how primitive concepts should be presented.
The only downfall to this book is its shortly lived time span.
First sentence: A train runs across this track.
Red caboose at the back.
Orange tank car next.
Yellow hopper car.
Premise/plot: Freight Train is a concept book teaching colors, a train-themed concept book teaching colors.
It received a Caldecott Honor in 1979, I believe.
If I had to guess the most memorized picture book ever, I bet it would be Freight Train or Goodnight Moon.
What do you think it would be?
My thoughts: What's not to love about this children's classic?
It wasn't the first train book, it certainly won't be the last.
What is it about kids and trains?!
A good read for a younger storytime on trains or colors or travel. For older ones, there's really no plot to speak of, so it might be a little dull for the 5+ storytime crowd. The pictures are lovely though, bright and clear and simple. The kids named the colors, we talked about the different types of cars, and then looked at all the places it was going. Highlights were "it's going really fast!" and "what are the gold things?" which led to a discussion on bridges.
This is a fun book about trains that also teaches children about colors. The simple narrative and illustrations are sure to entertain little ones and this is a great book to introduce to toddlers and preschoolers. I won't be reading this one with our girls since they've grown out of books like this, but I liked it.
This book is for the younger kids and was a favorite when my son was younger. Very simple is the tale of a train, the colors of the cars and the movement of the train, but the illustrations are stunning. Graphically cool.
Good for toddlers, but a little boring for bilingual older kids. This book does work well for introducing colors to non-bilingual children. Make it more fun by wearing a conductor's cap and bringing a train whistle!
I LOVE the illustrations of the moving freight train!
preschool book that doesn't really have much to read about.
I love the art style of this book and my little dude absolutely adores the content. He is obsessed with trains right now and loves to read along with me.
A great book for learning colors and loving freight trains.
Simple text and illustrations. cute.
Donald Crews’ Freight Train is a great concept book, primarily about identifying colors.
For example, the text “a red caboose at the back” is supported by an illustration of a red caboose at the back of the train.
A parent or teacher could even use the illustrations alone to ask the child (or children) to identify the color of each train car.
For example, the green car is in between the yellow and blue cars and the orange car is in between the red and yellow cars.
This book would be great for pre-K and kindergarten beginning and emerging readers, as well as those students learning about the primary and secondary colors.
The art can be described as being cartoon style because the train uses bright, fun colors that draws the audience in as well as simple illustrations depicting a train.
The cover art consisted of a wraparound method with the simple setting of the train used in the story, as well as the title and author’s name.
Every page uses a double page spread to show the illustrations as well as time passing.
As the story advances, the reader is introduced to each individual train car, describing the color and the type of car it is.
"Freight Train" by Donald Crews is a Caldecott Honor Book, and Donald Crews is also the 2015 winner of the Laura Ingalls Wilder Award.
This colorful book reviews colors and parts of a train, available in English and Spanish.
When the train begins to move, the colors of the train begin to blend.
I would recommend this book to be used in lower elementary levels, as it reviews colors.
The power and speed of a train is represented very well by the blending of colors as the train moves faster and faster.
The bold colors that Crews incorporates adds to the representation of a train being powerful.
For those little kids who enjoy trains this will be a fun and good book for them as it explores not only what we consider the main colors but also parts that make-up a working train as passenger coaches don't seem to be included.
The writing itself is very simple and in most senses wouldn't equal a story as it gives the colored train parts then explains what it is like for a train as it travels.
The end is also not as climatic since the author just seems to make it end by vanishing but that is definitely how most trains work give or take if you don't include the destination end.
In this story illustrations and simple text track the journey of a colorful train as it passes cities, goes through tunnels, and over bridges.
The text in each sentence is a different color and matches the illustrations.
White space is used to build the track, while the cars speeding by makes the view compelling.
So that attention stays focused on the train the tunnel and terrain remain simple, the city buildings are outlined but that is the only detail noticeable to the reader.
When I read this book to daycare children they anticipate the next color we are going to see and call it out together.
This book is helpful for young children to learn about primary colors and different types of basic railroad cars.
The story is told in a poetic, rhythmic style which helps hold a young reader's attention.
The story basically lists the color and type of each railroad car on each page, yet the simplicity of the pages allows the reader to use their imagination which is helpful for young readers.
The reading is easy and since there are only a few words per page, it allows the young reader to follow along and learn the words along with the colors.
