https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11821563-rose
Have read other accounts of ' life in sevice' which I enjoyed more. Lady Astor was a thoroughly unpleasant woman, and although Rose appeared to gain her respect, she nevertheless still had the upperhand. There were some interesting snippets , but on the whole not as interesting as it should have been.
I started reading this just before Downton Abbey started up again in Australia for its 5th(?I think) season, so it was good timing to get me back into the mindset of those times.
However, I haven’t noticed any of the lady’s maids in Downton Abbey being quite so forthright as Lady Astor’s maid, Rose, says she was in her time!!I found it interesting that Rose’s mother suggested Rose become a lady’s maid because she had said she’d like to travel.
And lo, and behold, travel she did!!A very informative read that describes life in a big house just after WWI, up to and throughout WWII and after - 3.5 stars.
This was an interesting look into a real life story of an upstairs/downstairs situation. The book is full of anecdotes and stories of what Rose experienced and what her day to day life was like. Not exactly a gripping page - turner but I liked it and am glad I read it.
It gave absolutely fascinating insights into the lives of the upper- and lower-classes in the first half of the 20th century, as told by a woman who saw it with her own eyes, and generally didn't lose her sense of perspective.It reads like something your grandmother would say, full of wise words, bizarre admonishments and fascinating insights into a time long past, although Rose is far too enamored of the Astors, and upper class twits in general for contemporary tastes and her devotion gets a bit wearing towards the end of the book.
With the guidance of her mother she studied and trained so that she would be suited to the job of lady's maid in a wealthy family.Once Lady Astor had her in her sights, Rose was destined whether she liked it or not to become her personal maid, a relationship that endured for 35 years and fulfilled her dream to travel all over the world, staying at the greatest houses and hotels and meeting the aristocracy and royalty.Lady Astor announced early in their relationship that she intended to break Rose's spirit, and she came close to succeeding, until Rose started to fight back which she did with Yorkshire forthrightness.
Nunca he leído algún libro antes sobre Nancy Astor ni sabía bien cuál fue su rol en la historia británica, pero así como le dedicó una lealtad absoluta reflejada por tantos años de servicio, es por esa misma lealtad que también le critica su actitud en bastante ocasiones donde el carácter, que podía llegar hasta ser infantil y absolutamente egoísta en ciertos momentos, de su señora le da más de un trago amargo al personal de servicio y a su propia familia, especialmente en los primeros años en que Rosina debió atenderla, hasta que aprendió a corregirla cuando era necesario que alguien lo hiciera.
Rosina or other wise known as "Rose" was the personal maid to Lady Astor.
She traveled the world with Lady Astor.Staying in the finest hotels.Over the 35 years Rose shares with the readers, meeting some very famous people who were invited to the many parties held by the Astor.
Rose was even quick to come to Lady Astors defense at times.
If people are interested in reading about what it is like to work in a Big house this if from 1928-1963.it is interesting.
It is about the personal maid of Mrs. Astor.
What a life they lead and what a relationship was forged between these two.
It was quite interesting and a slice of life that I am not sure exists any more.
Maybe the Royal's still have such huge households of people serving them.
I am going to send it to my mother-in-law as I am sure she kept track of Lady Astor through the newspaper in her day.
I really enjoyed the book and I think most people would if you like learning about lifestyles of the rich and famous.
Unfortunately, it would seem that I am serving in the capacity of ladies maid to my children with all the picking up and fetching that I do for them.This account by Lady Astor's maid painted an interesting picture of life in service, as well as an intimate look at the Astor family from her unique perspective.
I enjoyed reading and learning more about this period of time in England.
I had read Five Sisters: The Langhornes of Virginia several years ago, but it was fun to read about Nancy from her maid's perspective.
Rose tells her story with candor and a remarkable talent for detail, shedding much light on the relationships servants shared with the great families they served, and also illustrating the complicated hierarchy among the staff.
While never denying that life in service is hard work, Rose illustrates the true respect and affection shared between families and loyal servants, the wonderful opportunities for travel and the chance to meet the rich and famous enjoyed by some of the luckier ladies' maids, valets and butlers.
The story of their thirty-five year relationship transcends that of employer and servant.
A really interesting look into a woman's life as a lady's maid.
The tidbits are interesting and really kept me reading it quickly to see what would happen next since Lady Astor was quite the character.
It's a joy to read about her and read her arguments with Lady Astor.
There were a number of blatant spelling errors and other mistakes and I'm not usually one to pick up on all of those things.
One other thing that slightly decreased my enjoyment was the odd organizational structure to the book.
However, the content here is interesting and worth a read especially if you're a Downtown Abby fan.
Loved reading about Rose and her early life, her family and the support she received from her mother who helped her become a ladies maid.
The hierarchy of the servant class placed a ladies maid nearer to the top, but it was still hard work.
Lady Astor, who was the first woman elected to parliament was by all accounts very difficult, a difficulty that Rose had to learn to negotiate in order to perform her duties and still retain something of her own characters.
I think I would have liked to have met this plucky woman.
This is not a "biography" in the traditional sense.
Rather, the author tells her experience of being a lady's maid to Lady Astor.
I would suggest that knowing and enjoying history is more than knowing facts, dates, and even 'biographies.' History is coming to know about people, events, times, and the many influences that helped to shape them.
Often, we do not hear the voices of the people behind the people.
This book is an exception.
Here we hear (I listened to this book as an audio CD) the perspective of a maid, and what her experience of her employer was like.
My rating probably is more about my enjoyment of memoirs than the book itself. Sarah, you wrote a lovely review of it. I think you might be a writer in disguise!
Publisher's synopsis:In 1928, Rosina Harrison arrived at the illustrious household of the Astor family to take up her new position as personal maid to the infamously temperamental Lady Nancy Astor, who sat in Parliament, entertained royalty, and traveled the world.
Like Gosford Park and Downton Abbey, ROSE is a captivating insight into the great wealth 'upstairs' and the endless work 'downstairs', but it is also the story of an unlikely decades-long friendship that grew between Her Ladyship and her spirited Yorkshire maid.
The series 1900 House, a few years ago, illustrated just how far we've come!Rose tells things the way they were, in her own words, she doesn't "white wash" Lady Astor or her life with any of her other employers.
Wonderful, wonderful, wonderful. The writing style of this delightful book is almost one long train of thought; much as a grandmother would tell a long story in front of the fireplace.
In the foreward of this memoir, author Rosina "Rose" Harrison professes that her story is a simple, perhaps uneven retelling of events as she saw them during her many years of service to Nancy, Lady Astor.
She humbly warns that she "does not have the words or education" of those other observers to have written about Mrs. Astor.
She probably provides one of the most honest views of this American-gone-British icon available.Lovers of the "Upstairs, Downstairs" or "Downton Abbey" series will devour Rose's telling of her life in service as a lady's maid to the infamous Nancy Astor.
It is the memoir of Rose, lady's maid for 35 years to Lady Nancy Astor.
This book reads as if you were sitting down for a conversation with Rose - she is frank and open about her opinions and feelings.
Rose recounts numerous memories of the Astor family, their social life, her expected job duties, and her travels around the globe for her job.
I loved the inside look at Lady Astor, especially having read Five Sisters: The Langhornes of Virginia many years before that gave me a preview of Nancy Astor's upbringing and family background.
She was one of the leading ladies of the early 1900s.I found this book and interesting book about Rose a lady's maid for 35 years to Lady Astor.
I think I especially found it interesting because of my interest in the TV show, "Downton Abbey."Rose recalls many memories of the Astor family, day-to-day life with them, and her life's wish to travel and see the world.
If you are a "Downton Abbey" fan I think you will probably enjoy reading this book.
well, to be frank, I picked up this book with very little knowledge of Lady Astor. what I researched vs what I read was atrocious. also, where was the proofreader for this? the sheer number of grammatical and spelling errors made trudging through this far more difficult. pass.
I really enjoyed this book as I love the time period.
I have also read the book written by Margaret Powell titled "Below Stairs: The Classic Kitchen Maid's Memoir That Inspired "Upstairs, Downstairs" and "Downton Abbey" which I did not enjoy as much.
So when I found this book I was timid.
However the information in the book as seen through the eyes of Rose who was for35 years a Lady's maid to Lady Nancy Astor.
What i enjoyed was the honesty of the book, the stories of the people she worked with.
I have this friend who I lent the Downton Abbey DVDs to.She has since purchased many books based on:
I really enjoyed reading this little gem.
I've read some reviews that wished the author had used a ghost writer but I completely disagree.
Rose, the personal maid to Lady Astor, is full of personality and Yorkshire character that would be completely lost with a ghost writer.
Her unique and old school turn of phrases add so much charm to this story (ex: "never judge a sausage by its casing" LOL).
It is really worth a read if you enjoy Downton Abbey types of settings - I'm glad I picked it up at the bookstore and will definitely be looking for others along the same line!
This was a really interesting look into the life of a Lady's Maid. I really enjoyed Rose's stories and even got a few chuckles out of some of them. Being a Downton Abbey fan, this gave me a more indepth look at what working in a large home like theirs was like. Very enjoyable on audio!
This was one of those "if you like Downton Abbey, you'll love this..." recommendations in a New York Times article. I liked it! It's as if a nicer version of O'Brien wrote a memoir of 30+ years of her life. Lady Astor is an interesting character, not always likable, but the relationship between Rose and her ladyship is fascinating. I also really like her descriptions of all of the details behind huge parties, international travel, and visits with the royals. This is a really fast, easy read that helped fill the Downton void.
Brilliant story and fascinating to hear of Lady Astor's life from the perspective of her maid. A wonderful historical record with great flow throughout and told with charm and humour and a great sense of loyalty through even turbulent times during her employer's life.A colourful narrative charting not only the life of Lady Astor but also Rosina (her maid's) background history and also important key events of British history and the war.
This was a lucky find and a joy to read. I liked the major part of the book when Rose is maid to Lady Astor as the Astors had a huge influence in my home City of Plymouth and my Mother remembers her well. The wartime chapter was particularly poignant as Plymouth was utterly devastated during the blitz and both my parents experienced, and survived, that too.
This is a great little book, written in 1975. Well written and great for fans of Downton Abbey and say, Jane Austen books! It is both enlightening if you don't know the history of the time and entertaining as well. The author, lady's maid to Nancy, Lady Astor, must have been a great lady in her own right!
Ultimately, the story-teller is too polite for this book to be interesting for long. Rose is so loyal to her former employers that she wouldn't dare air their dirty laundry-- which is completely respectable, but lends to a pretty mundane book comprised primarily of house chores and European vacations.
An excellent companion piece to "Downton Abbey" and "Upstairs, Downstairs" -- this recollection of her thirty-five years of service to Nancy Astor by personal maid Rosina Harrison was a fascinating story. The photos that accompany the text are great too. Now I'm interested to explore more about the life of Lady Astor and those who lived "upstairs" in the first half of 20th century Britain.
