https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/68453.Czas_pogardy
The person everybody was searching for in the previous book was still at large with Geralt being one of the two people who could guess the whereabouts.
This means everybody was still conducting the search, but this time it became clear that the aim was to make sure the person in question is really dead just like the rumors started by Geralt stated.
Would it be a big spoiler to say he miserably failed at the end?The first half of the book looked exactly like the previous one: lots of talk and behind-the-scene machinations, but not much action.
Actual rating: 1.5 stars. I may or may not be a teensy little bit pissed off right now. Perhaps. The ranting is strong in this one. Consider your little selves warned. Yes, I know, I read this book wrong. You're welcome.I wasn't going to write this review today but there's a slight chance my exoskeleton is going to implode if I don't get this out of my system now, so here goes.This series started out with one of my mostest favoritest awesomest amazingest Fantasy book ever, aka The Last Wish. But
3/ There were repeated and vicious and deadly relationship drama attacks.4/ My boyfriend Geralt, who is kinda sorta supposed to be the MC for this series (well that's what I thought but I'm naught but a clueless shrimp so what do I know?), ended up having less page time than a born-again barnacle in a historical romance book.
Sapkowski doesn't devote half the quarter of the third of the time he spends detailing sluts and bitches' women's lack of clothing he does describing what men wear.
After an interesting and quite tragic point of view chapter following a King's messenger called Aplegatt, where the worrying and uneasy times that the world is currently facing are expressed, we are introduced back to Geralt, Ciri, and Yennefer.
One of these two styles generally features fan favourites such as Dandelion (although not as much as I would have liked), Geralt, Ciri, Triss, and Yennefer and includes some of the finest and well-crafted scenes that have been created in the series to date.
If A Game of Thrones books were penned by Andrzej Sapkowski, he would've written a whole installment on Red Wedding.
In this series, which is made up of what are supposed to be full-length books, we have absolutely none of that and it's very disappointing.The dialogue is the worst thing of all.
I don't know if it's the translation, the transcription or the original author, but a translator can only do so much with what they're given.Beyond the dialogue, everything is is pretty much just generic fantasy with battles, swords, magic and men calling all females sluts or bitches.
There is a small attempt to make interesting female characters, but just giving them magical powers doesn't do that.
Ciri and Geralt really go through some difficult changes which makes this novel all the more interesting.
So whereas “Blood of Elves” sets up the idea of Ciri being at the center of courtly intrigue and politics, with Geralt and Yennefer trying to protect her -- “Time of Contempt” goes deep into that same intrigue and politics with an absolute cluster of a battle in the middle of the story.
“Time of Contempt” is many things.
Like the last book, “Time of Contempt” feels like simply another episode in a much larger story, without any real closure.
Today I’ll be reviewing The Time of Contempt, the second full-length novel in the sequence.The story beings where Blood of Elves left off, following Yennefer and Ciri’s journey to Gors Velen where the sorceress hopes to continue her young apprentice’s education by enrolling her into a school for magic.
He truly is a talented voice artist.In sum, The Witcher series and its characters are a one-of-a-kind creation, and The Time of Contempt is another excellent novel in the sequence, not to mention a great experience in audio format.
Cuando se compara Gerarlt con Canción de Hielo y Fuego hay una conversación del libro que ejemplifica muy bien la diferencia:"-En el escudo, un pez de plata y corona alternado sobre campo cuarteado de azul y gules- Que le den a la heráldica, Fenn.
El rey ¿Quién es el rey allí?"Así es, mientras G.R.R. Martin dedica páginas y páginas a heráldicas y casas reales, en la saga del brujo van al grano, se dejan de pajas y lo hace rápido.
Finally, sorry but this was nottttttttt my type of plot. I mean...Ciri her storyline is great but the rest ( and it was mostly the rest ) was so boring. Soooo political, too many names and I just dont know who is screwing who. So sadly I got detached from the plot.Putting this series on a break till I get back from vacation. I still feel a connection with the main plot, I looove the witcher concept and all the wizards. But I need less politics...
I feel like doing a super informal review for this one, just because this writer makes me feel so many feelings and The Witcher is on the fast-track to becoming my favourite series so quickly that I don't know how to put my thoughts into presentable order.
My review of The Blood of Elves is probably a better recommendation of the series.Ciri, Geralt, and Yennefer are some of my favourite literary characters.
Just handle it well, please.I know that characters don't need love interests to be interesting, especially in this genre, but Yennefer and Geralt are just such a fascinating love story that I expect it out of Sapkowski to do something like that for Ciri, who now seems to be his main character.
It was good.Clearly these books have never been that big in the West, they haven't even all been translated yet and they were written in the early 90s, and it makes you doubt what's going on in the fantasy book publishing world.
On the face of it these books are steeped in the usual cliche, magicians, elves, swordsmen, monsters and a chosen child litter the pages and you'll find a lot of what you expected to find when perusing an extended fantasy epic series.
3.5 out of 5 starsSo, here's the issue I'm having: I need more Geralt. Don't get me wrong, I love reading about Ciri, and Yennefer, and the random people they encounter, and the politics... But I read these books for Geralt, and when he shows up the whole thing is just on a whole different level. Basically, what I'm saying is that I'm still really enjoying the series, but I'm really hoping we get more of the, you know, main character? That would be nice.
Taking into account only the books of this saga that I have read so far,I can say that this is one of the rare (few) series where the sequels are better than the first book.I can't wait to read the next novel in the series and I hope that I won't be disappointed at the end.
Βαθμολογία: ★★★★Ακόμη ένα πολύ καλό βιβλίο της σάγκας του Witcher Geralt (ή μήπως καλύτερα της Ciri;) που έφτασε στο τέλος του. Ο χαμός που προμήνυε το προηγούμενο βιβλίο συνέβη σε αυτό και δεν είναι και πολύ ευχάριστα τα νέα. Το «Time of Contempt» έχει ως κεντρικό άξονα μια συνάθροιση μάγων στο νησί Thanedd, η οποία συμβαίνει στα μέσα του βιβλίου. Όπως είναι φυσικό, τίποτε δεν κύλησε ομαλά. Χωρίς να αναφέρω spoilers, ο Sapkowski ασχολείται κυρίως με την πολιτική ενός κόσμου που αρχίζει να καίγεται και φυσικά στο τέλος σε κάνει να ανυπομονείς για τη συνέχεια.
Serijal postaje sve bolji. Radnja konacno krece da se povezuje na pravi nacin.Jos jedna knjiga i stizete do vrhunca serijala.
This book is explosive and I can't wait to read the next one!
Los primeros cuatro capítulos son la mejor fantasía que he leído en mucho, mucho tiempo.
Durante decenas de páginas lo único que hay son diálogos entre todos los personajes que han ido apareciendo en los tres libros anteriores, y a través de estas conversaciones va tejiendo el mundo en el que habitan.
Una auténtica gozada.Los siguientes tres capítulos bajan el nivel.
Pero se termina comprendiendo ya que desemboca en lo que va a ocurrir en siguientes libros (eso espero).Decir que Ciri y Geralt son de los personajes más atrayentes que he leído, parecen tener un imán cuando hablan.También mención especial al traductor.
I'm so bummed.
This series really isn't capturing my imagination and soul like I anticipated it would.
I think I expected more monsters.
More Geralt.
More of a linear story.
This is all world-domination and switching POVs and political conniving.
I'm going to do it, guys.
I'm going to finish this series!
The awesome game franchise is owed that much on my behalf.
But I'm just super bummed on this one.
Dare I say, I may actually...enjoy the games more?
*le gasp!*Also, WHAT THE HECK WITH THIS COVER?!
It's not even in the book!
I'm calling false advertising on this bullcrap.
Yennefer and Geralt reunite, Ciri is still in danger but isn't that aware in the beginning, there are new great characters and all of this is told in wonderful little occurrences that made me happy, even though near the ending the book got really intense.I always love Sapkowski's style of writing characters and dialogs and how he has a partly poetic suffisticated writing style but doesn't mind getting close to vulgar at times.
After what happened at the last third of this book I finally feel like I really care about what's happening to her and she doesn't just feel like a motivation for Geralt anymore.
Simple heroism (and anti-heroism) were out, along with magical trinkets, gallant knights, noble savages, evil gods, prophesied chosen ones, elves, dwarves, dragons and most other mainstays of both the neo-Tolkeinic and sword & sorcery questing traditions.
Moral ambiguity, violence, greed, vice, corruption and, above all, politics reigned in their stead.The gritty revolution was, and remains, a reaction to all the ridiculous tropes and cliches that once defined fantasy.
On the face, you have an Elric clone questing through a Tolkeinic world populated by nearly every sentient non-human creature ever touched upon in fantasy (yes, there are even centaurs, werewolves and unicorns).
2.5 starsI'm kind of let down by this book and that is a shame because I feel like I've been talking so much about these characters and this premise, all for it to lead to this disappointing spot.A list of complaints: - The first two books were great for what they presented: Geralt, the morally ambiguous, fighting all kinds of monsters and also coming across all kinds of monstrous people.
- Not enough Geralt.
- The POV shifts and the story in general all seemed a little sloppy.
I couldn't tell you why we stopped the story where we did, honestly.
The political intrigue turns up a notch in this second full-length Witcher novel.
Geralt is only in a small portion of the book, but the other characters—particular Ciri—are strong enough to carry the tale.
It is an entertaining and fast moving book.
Sapkowski is highly skilled at writing dialogue and crafting and refining his characters with their words.The only bump in the road was an interminable meeting of a group of sorcerers and sorceresses, which was essentially a few dozen pages of loud arguing about politics.
Once these folks (view spoiler)[died or scattered during the big magic brawl (hide spoiler)], the plot shifted to a higher gear.
Terminé el libro hace unos días, pero no he tenido ocasión de hacer reseña hasta ahora.Y eso tiene una pega: ahora mismo no sé muy bien qué decir.
nada nuevo bajo el sol XDPero luego había una parte de esas que tan poco me gustan, en plan “¿No sabes qué ha pasado en los últimos días ni cómo va la guerra?
Simplemente UGH.Supongo que va a gustos, pero yo habría preferido una versión menos detallada de la historia.
XDPero bueno, el último capítulo fue mucho más dinámico (gracias a dios XD) y me quedé con ganas de ver cómo seguía el asunto.
And, much like in aSoIaF, sticking to your principles has a terrible cost.There are huge problems with this book.
It's more like a timeline than a story.The second big problem is that too many people seem to speak with the same voice.
Fine - I'll order my men to do their raping quietly so the peasants don't kick up too much fuss when they're annexed.If you're going to flip character to character at least give the reader someone to like.
**** 4.5/5 ****Bloody. Beautiful. Brutal. A new favourite.
First thoughts after finished reading:I don't want to judge too quickly, so I'll only rate this book after I finish reading its prequel (which is waiting for me in the library).Still, I need to rant about a certain character: Ciri.
I mean, by the end of the book (view spoiler)[she gets transmitted magically (and accidentally) to a deadly desert and she is forced to struggle for survival AND THEN suddenly she decides her two guardians, Geralt and Yennefer have always been lying to her and she doesn't care about these two anymore!?
The cleverness and charm of the short stories is all but dead in this second novel.The first half of the book was awesome.
Action packed with Geralt leading the story.
From here we receive another muddled up middle where Dandelion t finds Geralt and tells him what's going on in the outside world.
We experience Dandelion's story through quickly changing POVs instead of having a dialogue explaining the events leading to the outbreak of all out war.
It was very confusing having to meet several new characters that we never see again just to tell a little story.
I don't know.Then Geralt is absent for the second half of the book.
La trama ruota sempre più intorno alla figura di Ciri, la bambina salvata da Geralt nella Spada del destino e accolta prima sotto la sua tutela e poi sotto quella di Yennefer ne Il sangue degli elfi.
Dunque tutti la cercano; l'imperatore di Nilfgaard perché vuole il trono di Cintra (Già spiegato il perché nella recensione precedente) i maghi assoldati da Nilfgaard perché è stata loro promessa una ricompensa esorbitante in cambio della ragazzina e lo stesso Geralt che teme per la sua vita e vuole salvarla dai suoi inseguitori.
This happens enough that when a character appears that actually is important, I'm already in the habit of not remembering important details.
The best example is that this book ends with a character, previously introduced for only a moment, learning an important piece of information that could change the setting of the stage for the next novel.
I had to check Wikipedia after I finished the book to find out why a character killed themselves and had a hugely important plot point explained to me that I would have to have actually been studying various characters' motivations and the strategic relationships between their factions to "get it" on my own without having it explained to me.Now look, if you've read this far you're probably thinking "My god, what a dolt." But really, I promise I read these books attentively.
Хитови кюмпютърни игри с мултимилионни продажби, комикс адаптации от най-големите американски издателства, предстоящ сериал по Netflix... Днес популярността на поредицата „Вещерът” е по-висока от всякога и със сигурност надминава и най-смелите мечти на своя създател Анджей Сапковски. Приключенията на Гералт вече са се превърнали в своеобразна индустрия в Полша, мания сред геймърите по цял свят и безпрецедентен комерсиален успех в славянското фентъзи. Къде се корени този успех? В първоизточника, разбира се. В книгите. И четвъртото заглавие от серията е поредното доказателство. Разгърнете заедно с нас „Вещерът: Време на презрение” (изд. "Сиела"). Прочетете ревюто на "Книжни Криле":https://knijnikrile.wordpress.com/201...
