https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/479415.The_Horse_Whisperer
Grace was riding her horse Pilgrim in the snow which resulted in an accident–a horrible accident that cost someone their life.
Both Grace and her horse are physically and mentally damaged from the accident and it will take some time for both to heal.
Her mother, Annie, finds a man by the name of Tom Booker who begins working with Grace and Pilgrim.
As time moves on, he and Grace’s mom, Annie, find an attraction for one another.
The accident with Pilgrim has now put even more strain on their relationships.This is one of my favorite books by Nicholas Evans.
”There was death at its beginning as there would be death again at its end. Though whether it was some fleeting shadow of this that passed across the girl’s dreams and woke her on that least likely of mornings she would never know. All she knew, when she opened her eyes, was that the world was somehow altered.”  ”There was snow. The first fall of winter. And from the laterals of the fence up by the pond she could tell there must be almost a foot of it. With no deflecting wind, it was perfect an
When Grace and Pilgrim, her horse, end up riding with her friend and her friend’s horse, on this morning of first snow, two will return damaged, and two lives are lost.
And so Annie sets out to find, and then convince Tom Booker, a horse whisperer, to help Pilgrim, and by extension help Grace.
I saw the movie many years ago, and loved it, as well, but I no longer remember the details of the movie, only that Robert Redford was the horse whisperer.
A girl’s love for her horse that becomes a burden that she carries with her, unable to see anything but that moment, that day, and the damage to this splendid creature.

I was sucked in for almost the entire book, I have to say. Loved both the jilted academic husband and the sensitive, manly cowboy horse-guru. But the ending was so ridiculously bizarre that it ruined the whole thing for me. Am I just a terrible cynic?
I don't know about others but writing the review of The Horse Whisperer has proved to be immensely difficult.
What I'm writing here is a review about a book that couldn't have been written any better.
Nicholas Evans spins a heart wrenching epic love story that thrives and dies amid sorrow and pain.
Tom Booker comes as a healer to a family in grief and heals the wounds that have gone deep into the very souls.
Buy it, borrow it or steal it.
But don't miss this gem for anything.
It's about what's going on in our hearts.
نیکلاس ایوانز در حال حاضر در سراسر جهان به عنوان نویسنده از اسب نجوا کن شناخته شده است.این اولین رما
This book would have gotten one star, except for the fact that I actually enjoyed reading about the slow, tandem recovery of the horse and his rider.
What I DIDN'T enjoy was the main character, Annie.
She drags her family along by the nose, so certain that EVERYTHING SHE DOES is the best solution for everything, and the fact that the author makes her decisions work somehow makes the character even more irritating.
The ending.
Oh dear, the ending.
I can't believe Annie's family was even speaking to her at that point, but again, she seemed to believe that everyone was just going to go along with what SHE really wanted anyway.
Evans obviously did a LOT of research before writing this book, the kind of research you do with real people, not with library books or online searches, but he mixes all this information in with the storyline so skillfully that you feel like he MUST have been a Montana cowboy at some point...Anyway, this is a lovely book and is especially wonderful for mothers and daughters.
I mean, i really felt like they were real people.
Where everything else in the book feels very "true," the end is kind of unsatisfying and lazy.
While Robert reacts in much the way one would expect a parent to, Annie controls her emotions completely, but becomes obsessed with finding a cure for Pilgrim.That cure comes in the form of Tom Booker, a cowboy and rancher in Montana who is a "horse whisperer".
He takes on Pilgrim as a project and Annie and Grace move to the spare house at the ranch so that Grace can work with Tom as he slowly brings Pilgrim back to life.At this point, the story has been told so expertly that a reader cannot disengage no matter what.
El libro me gustó bastante, al igual que la película, con una jovencísima Scarlett Johansson.
4.5 Tragic Stars! I will never forget this one, this one gutted me, just the title induces tears & butterflies...and yet I Ioved it too...
Love this book! It's the kind of book one reads and still several years later remember much about. Fabulous story and I think that the ending is the book is way better than the movies ending!
I am always cautious when picking up a book in which animals figure prominently in the story.
Nevertheless, the premise of this story sounded fascinating and I wasn't disappointed.On a cold December day, Grace Graves goes riding on her horse Pilgrim with a friend.
Grace's friend and her horse are killed...
Grace loses a leg in the accident and although Pilgrim's physical injuries will eventually heal; emotionally, the two....
Annie is desperate to make her daughter whole again and she recognizes the connection between her daughter's health and Pilgrim's health; so Annie, Grace and Pilgrim set out on a journey to Montana and it is there that their lives are changed forever.This beautiful story is about the complexities of relationships...
If Nicholas Sparks could write well, or if "The Bridges of Madison County" had had a horse in it, the result might be something like this book.
But, I am not a fan of adultery, nor of explicit sex in a book.
I can see why people would like this book; it is emotional and dramatic, well-plotted and paced, even well-written for what it is.
But what it is is a melodramatic, manipulative, deliberate emotional roller-coaster ride with this cowboy who is really good with horses and everyone loves him - too much - cue soap opera!
(Robert Redford in the movie, looking nearly as decrepit as Clint Eastwood in Bridges of Madison County)
Read this because best friend wrote the screenplay. Although I'm probably biased I preferred the movie with Robert Redford. Always interesting to see how the book transfers to the big screen. My friend, Eric, also wrote the screenplay for Forrest Gump for which he took home an Oscar.
I ate this book.It was assume.Loved the movie too!
Απο την εισαγωγη αυτο το βιβλιο με συνεπηρε.
Οι κινηματογραφικες περιγραφες που για ενα περιεργο λογο δεν βαριομουν να διαβαζω αλλα απολαμβανα, τα συναισθηματα και οι σκέψεις ολων των σημαντικων ηρωων που μοιραζονταν τοσο ομορφα στις σελιδες και η πολυπλοκοτητα των χαρακτηρων ειναι κατι που εκτιμω ουτως η αλλως στα αναγνωσματα.
Η Αννυ ειναι μια ηρωιδα που στο μισο βιβλιο αναρωτιεσαι τι παιδικο τραυμα κουβαλαει κ ειναι τοσο ξεροκεφαλη, κ αυτο το λατρευω!!!
Διαβαζα τις ρεαλιστικες περιγραφες, τις ατακες και σκεφτομουν επιτελους ενα υπεροχο ρεαλιστικο μυθιστορημα, κ τοτε ερχεται το τελος!!!
Μειον ενα αστερακι για το τελος!!!
Μας την εφερε ο κ.
Harrowing and brutal yet beautiful, like its landscape but crude like the people in it. Poetic movie it made though. And it coined a great term almost everyone uses. More tragic than the tragedy in this novel is that Evans turned the success of this book into his running formula. What's the point of repetitive storylines? Plus, I don't know, British writers writings as Americans bother me for some reason. It shouldn't but it does. I can't think of any American writer doing the same. Yet who am I to talk? Maybe all roads do lead to Rome.
I won this book when I went to see the movie adaptation, which was great. So I read the book after I watched the movie. It was great, albeit a bit sadder than the movie and with a different ending, if I remember correctly. That was back in 1999 or 2000.
I didn't care for the descriptions of Annie "thinking that somehow the horse's fate and her daughter's fate were related" (paraphrase).
Thankfully, that sort of muck is kept to a minimum.I thought the story should have focused more on the rehabilitation of Grace and her horse.
Maybe it's because I'm a man, but I don't think every single male and female main character need to fall in love.
What would be wrong with a story in which a man and a woman interact as two normal people, without falling in love?
Some parts of the story are very good, showing the fragility of human relations.
What follows is the gentle recovery of more than just those immediately involved in the accident -- Grace's parents, Annie and Robert, also undergo a healing process.But Tom Booker, whose kind understanding of both horses and humans helps to mend the Maclean family's wounded relationships, finds himself in a difficult position.
He and Annie are overcome by an undeniable attraction, and though their affair takes away from the healing focus of the story, I think it's appropriate for Evans to show that life goes on despite us and that new scraps and bruises are acquired, even as we lick our wounds.
Sono passati anni dalla prima lettura, ma ancora mi ricordo l’emozione fortissima che mi travolse quando finalmente Grace riuscì a ritrovare il suo Pilgrim! È un libro che mi ha fatto riflettere molto, che mi ha trascinato nella vita dei nuovi cowboy, che mi ha mostrato un’America diversa, nuova e bellissima. Evans scrive benissimo, con poche righe riesce a emozionare ad arrivare al cuore! Questo libro è e rimarrà uno dei miei preferiti!
Adultery is not romantic. Will men quit writing this shit!

A friend of mine kept bugging me to read Nicholas Evans, and I finally gave in and got his first novel - The Horse Whisperer.
When it came to the book I wasn't impressed.With an interesting premise - girl coming back to health after an accident during horse riding, a "whisperer" called to heal the horse - it soon became cliched and predictable.
The interesting process with the girl coming back to health after the accident, and the dreamy cowboy is trying to heal the horse and make it trust people again was soon switched by Evans for a corny Hollywood romance.
The horse whisperer, Nicholas Evans (1950)عنوان 1: نجواگر اسب؛ نویسنده:نیکلاس ایوانز؛ برگردان: مهدی قراچه داغی، مشخصات نشر: تهران، نشر پیکان، 1377، در 359 ص، شابک: 9647497237؛ موضوع: نویسندگان داستانهای آمریکایی قرن 20 معنوان 2: نجواگر اسب؛ نویسنده:نیکلاس ایوانز؛ مترجمها: آسیه رنجبر وانانی، مریم محمدبیگی؛ ویراستار: مژگان پهلوانی، مشخصات نشر: اهواز، خاتم سبز، 1381، در 111 ص، شابک: 9647497237؛ موضوع: نویسندگان داستانهای آمریکایی قرن 20 ممتن فیلم نجواگر اسبها نیز با بازی رابرت ردفورد در دیماه 1377
‬The horse whisperer, Nicholas ‎Evans (1950)عنوان 1: نجواگر اسب؛ نویسنده:نیکلاس ایوانز؛ برگردان: مهدی قراچه داغی، مشخصات نشر: تهران، نشر پیکان، 1377، در 359 ص، شابک: 9647497237؛ موضوع: نویسندگان داستانهای آمریکایی قرن 20 معنوان 2: نجواگر اسب؛ نویسنده:نیکلاس ایوانز؛ مترجمها: آسیه رنجبر وانانی، مریم محمدبیگی؛ ویراستار: مژگان پهلوانی، مشخصات نشر: اهواز، خاتم سبز، 1381، در 111 ص، شابک: 9647497237؛ موضوع: نویسندگان داستانهای آمریکایی قرن 20 ممتن فیلم نجواگر اسبها نیز با بازی رابرت ردفورد در دیماه 1377 با ترجمه محمدعلی فیروزآبادی توسط نشر فرهنگ و سینما چاپ شده است
I don't like to see bad things happen to people or animals. Although I cringe when I think of an animal that has been hurt, I like to see it restored. The author tells a story of a young girl and her girlfriend on an early winter morning ride where tragedy strikes. Lives were lost. However some lived but with incredible injuries. The horse and rider + family must go through a restoration with the help of a man who has a gift with horses. The setting is beautiful Montana.
If you've already seen the movie, be prepared that the book is totally different, although much, much better. I liked the ending of the book more than the movie, although most people probably wouldn't. I won't spoil it for those of you who haven't read it yet. It's definitely a great story with a lot of complexity and richness.
This title just popped up in a discussion thread and reminded me that I had read the book, after seeing the movie, with Robert Redford. I was very moved by the woman's struggle with her daughter and the horse parts were awful. I was satisfyied with the ending, but it was a little strange.
In the same way, the author threw those descriptions in as if he'd just lifted them from a romance novel.
I didn't buy it nor like it.From a "novel" perspective, this was a great story.
The story of the health of the horse being vital to the emotional health of Grace was a great allegory (analogy?), and I loved the way the mother/daughter relationship unfolded.
Like the author didn't know how to get out of the story.
I think there were probably other ways Pilgrim could have gotten up there with the wild horses without Grace becoming suicidal.
