https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19412.They_Cage_the_Animals_at_Night
Early in the book we meet his constant friend, Doggie, a white and tan stuffed animal that was given to him, (at first) only at night, at the first home he stayed at.
Through hardship, pain, emotional rampage, Jennings learns that stuffed animals are not the only thing that is caged for protection.The orphans are locked up during the night and also during the day.
There are times when there is much love in the world and Jennings cannot bear to find it in him to speak the words because if he does, if he lets them escape, just like the stuffed animals or the orphans, he might get doubly hurt.
I literally can't.The writing isn't perfect, and the character's voice wavers between an innocent, naive 9 year old and someone who is much, much older.
It just seemed at times the author was trying to include that "out of the mouth of babes, incredibly insightful" voice.
Sadly enough, although this book describes the foster system over 60 years ago, not much has changed.
Luckily, the book also shows how much of a difference a single person can be in a kid's life.
Aside from the basics of life, kids need love and safety more than anything else.
Insightful, Touching, Eye Opening, Heartbreaking & Mesmerizing! A Courageous Read! I Loved It!
They Cage the Animals at Night is the inspiring story of a young boy's childhood life.
His mother gets very sick and sends Jennings and his 4 brothers into foster homes and orphanages.
His other brother, Walter, is too busy studying and doing school work, he cannot take care of Jennings.
Jennings has no one to take care of him.
I would recommend this book to anyone who likes a good, inspiring, sad story but that also one has many upsides to it.
This story made me realize how lucky I was to have a real family, it also made me realize that I don't really live a tough life at all.
He is a little boy who was left by his mother at an orphanage.
Also while he was their at the orphanage he was being teased and laughed at by all the other boys in their.
It took place mostly in a small room in the orphanage, very plain gloomy feeling , cramped with other kids.
It is one and only book I ever read that I actually read cause of its interesting true features it had of a kid surviving on its own.
I would recommend this book to first time advanced readers because it gives them the true feeling of being a surviver at such a young age.
But pretty much, the whole events in the book happened to Jennings, which I thought was very terrible and sad for someone to go through all that:( I'll admit, I was happy, I got to meet Jennings, because about 7 people were picked to actually go up to him and talk before it all started, which I thought was cool, kind of like a V.I.P kind of thing.
Jennings showed the teddy bear to the crowd, but they didn't get to look at it closely or feel it, like we did, which I thought was cool, like an insider thing, cause we were the only ones that actually got to feel it.
They Cage the Animals at Night, written by Jennings Michael Burch, is one of the many abuse-related books that I have read, and this one, like the Dave Pelzer series, is one of my favorites.
The first time I read this book, I was still a tween, and rereading the book now, five years later, I understand it more deeply.
This book would definitely become a favorite to those that take the time to read it.
It is a book that I would read over countless of times, and rarely do I like to reread books.
A touching, heartbreaking story that captivated me from start to finish.
I could not stop thinking about the cast of characters that walked into and out of (and often, back into) Jennings’ life, especially his five brothers, his sixth ‘brother’ Mark, Sal, Martha, and Stacy.
This book definitely made me feel a whirlwind of emotions–it’s one I’m sure I won’t be able to get out of my head for a long time–and made me realize how many children are so alone and desperately in need of love in this world.
--“Doesn’t everyone who has something to give owe a little to those in need?
He just needs a little time, and I have it.”
I read this book probably 20 years ago, when I was a small child myself.
I feel that I need to read this book again to perhaps gain more insight than I did as a child.
But from what I do remember of the book, it's this: Jennings was bounced in and out of orphanages & homes At one orphanage, they had stuffed animals, but they were taken away (caged) each night Doggie was his companion who was caged each night Doggie came with him everywhere afterwards - the only one who could and did.I remember there was sadness, darkness, and yet light at the end.
I'd like to reread this book and give a truer, clearer review & opinion.
This is one of my favorite books of all time. It is a true story about the struggles of a young boy as he is sent to various foster homes, boys' homes, and other awful places. He strength is inspirational. I like this book because it is a true story. Have some tissues ready, this book will make you cry!
I absolutely love this memoir. I read it for my Honors 9 English class as a summer assignment and at first I was really bummed because I thought it would be so boring. Well, it's not. It made me realize what's important and to be grateful for everything and everyone in my life. I definitely think everyone should read it.
I know that this was based on a real life event but I like fiction books more.
The story was based on Jennings Michael Burch and his child hood and what he went through.
Jennings family had rough edges and that caused Jennings to go into the foster care system.The main characters in the book are Mark, Sal, Doggie, Jennings, and his family.
The author Jennings Michael Burch did do a good job at writing the book than other authors I have read.
This book does show harsh things that happened to kids in foster care and how some places just are not for kids.
I loved the book They Cage The Animals at Night It captivated me from the beginning. I love how there was detail of every orphanage. I thought the book really shows how foster cre is and how some orphanages aren't good. The book was very sad that it had happened to a real kid. Even though it was sad, I loved the book
This book focuses on one specific kid, Jennings Michael Burch, that has to go into the foster homes system after his mom gets sick.
With no caring adults or friendly kids to help him adjust to his new “home”, he felt very alone until they opened the big “cage” of stuffed animals for the kids to sleep with at night.
However, Jennings got very sad the next morning because while the kids are sleeping at night they take the stuffed animals away and lock them up again.
Sadly, Jennings’ mom continued to get sick , and every time she had to go to the hospital, Jennings had to go back to the foster home.
Genre: Memoir By: Jennings Michael Burch This book is a tragic book about a boy, named Jennings Michael Burch.
He is in and out of orphanages, foster homes,, and institutions over a four year period.
She is dealing with physical and mental illness.
He has to deal with the physical abuse of the hands of strangers.
But he is unrelenting through out the time period.
This happened to many children of that time period, and sadly still happens in some countries.
This book ripped my heart apart, then mended it back together.
I would recommend this book to people who would enjoy a page turner that warmes your heart.
3.5/5 starsThis is such a gripping story, and the fact that it's a true makes my heart ache.From the age of 9 through 11, Jennings goes from home after another, suffering from loss, by losing his family when he had to leave, to losing his friends he made in the home, to dealing with sickness and death.
Jennings goes through so much at a young age and it's heart breaking to read his story.
Burch wrote this story as his 8 year old self, but some words and descriptions arose in his writing and there were sometimes that didn't make me believe that Jennings was an eight year old, but it still worked, especially with Jennings jargon and way of thinking.
An inspiring book about a boy that made it through the sometimes downright horrific foster care institutions of the 50's in New York City.
The author's mother is ill, causing her to place some of her children in foster care until she is better.
Jennings keeps bouncing between different foster institutions and short stints at home.
The fact that anyone can survive this type of childhood and thrive (he later became a policeman, and is an adoptive father himself) is amazing.
It has an easy writing style, as it is told from a child's perspective.
They cage the Animals at night was a great book.
I found the book never boring even though it wasn't action-packed.
I found myself nervous for Jennings whenever he would go to a new home.
I almost cried realizing all the events in this story were true, and that people can be so cruel.
The story was about Jennings Burch, or Jennings Michael Burch, after he hated his first name sounding like a last name.
His mother was sick and his brothers were drunks and hated each other.
This is Jennings story through the orphanage and foster home system.
Absolutely devastating and heart-wrenching, but at the same time one of the most incredible books I've ever read.
Not incredible in terms of story, of plot, or of writing, but incredible in that an American child could experience such disturbing horrors, and still be able to surpass them enough to live a successful adult life, and to write about them for the world to read.
Definitely recommended for those looking to adopt or foster a child (as an idea of what they might (unfortunately) have suffered through, or to mature high school teenagers looking for an accurate grasp of what it could be like to be a foster child.
The reality of this is stark, and nothing is sugar-coated.
I thought that this was a really moving story about a young boy's struggle with the foster care system in the 1960s. Jennings shows readers how good, and more importantly, how bad the situations could be. I really felt sympathy for him, and I think that readers will be touched by his story.
Wow, this book left me speechless and brought me to tears and on quite a few occasions.
One of those books that everyone should get around to reading at least once in their lives.
This book is so well written that as a reader, you feel inserted into the story, watching from a distance.
This book was based on a true story, and you can tell that it is as well.
I read this book 3 years ago and I still feel pangs in my heart whenever I think of it.
And kept reading this book on the side because it was that much better.
I finished the book in a few short days.Read this book.
Read it.
Jennings mom sent him to a foster home.was his best friend throughout the book, with Jennings being torn between his family and Mark.
Jennings met a friend names mark who While in his first home Jennings comes along a little stuffed dog in which he named doggy, Jennings would have Doggy with him wherever he would go.
Throughout the book Jennings goes from Foster home to his actual home throughout the entire book, with that he would make a new friend everywhere he went.
This was my favorite book in my whole middle school live because the character goes through many adventures.
So Jennings mom is very sick and she cant take care of the kids so she sends all of them away.
Jennings gets send to an orphanage.
Jennings goes back home and starts to be a regular family again.
Jennings goes back to a different orphanage and stays there.
His mom finally picks him up and then they actually do return to a normal family.
What makes the book good is that he goes through many adventures and you can imagine it in your head like a movie.
This book is a beautiful mix of heart-warming and heart-breaking.
I both lost and gained faith in humanity every few pages.
How Jennings Burch had the resolve to write and share his story is beyond comprehension.
The story follows his broken upbringing as a child thrown into the care of foster homes and child services in New York in the fifties.
I think the implications of this story are even more heart-breaking than the story itself; the fact that these storylines are more prevalent than we dare imagine.
Burch's is one worth reading.
This book, "They Cage The Animals at Night", an autobiography by Jennings Micheal Burch, really shows how it felt like to be in a foster home.
In this book, the author gives us his story of his childhood when he was put in a foster home when his mother was overwhelmed by doing so many things at a time with 5 children to take care of and another child in the hospital.
A few days after realizes a few days after he was sent off that his mother wasn't going to come back for a long time.
I cried harder at this book than any other book I've read as an adult.
(As a child, I cried about this hard at the ending of Stuart Little.) It was a similar feeling to watching a movie about the Holocaust.
Young Jennings bravely seeks the right answers in his horrifying and confusing life and allows himself to love.
Several adults do treat him kindly and love him back.
After reading the book, just look at the full name he uses as author of the book and you will feel another little jolt of that tenacious hope that he never abandoned.
i am in 8th grade and this is one of the best books ive ever read in school as an assighned novel.
the main character in this book is jennings burch.
jennings has 4 other brothers and a mom that takes of them all by herself.
since there mom was going through a rough time, jennings was sent to an orphanage until his mom was all better.
during his time at the orphanages that he kept being sent back and forth to he was abused both physically and mentally.
i cryed reading this book several times.
i highly recommend this book to anyone.
I read this book in high school for English class and felt so much for the author.
To be able to see that someone who went through a similar experience as yourself makes you feel less alone in the world.
I believe the author did an amazing job explaining his experience in such a way that it felt as if you were in in the book with him.
To this day I still read his book.
Unless you yourself have gone through such an experience the storey can make you feel uneasy and uncomfortable.I just love it all together
This book is about how Jennings Burch goes through being a foster child.
Jennings was only 8 when he had to go to his first home.
Jennings was always going from his home with his mom to a children's home.
Some homes treat him alright and at some homes he gets beat by the nuns.
Jennings tries to stay positive with Doggie, his stuffed animal, by his side.I like this book because it has an adventure of Jennings and what he went through.
Jennings had to go through some hard time and did not want to stay positive, but he did.
