https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/90708.Winner_Take_Nothing
A mixed-bag of short stories, mostly very good ones, in a variety of settings. The one thing the stories have in common is that they're all mind-blowingly downbeat (as the title implies), even by Hemingway standards. Desolation, loneliness, despair, brutality -- they're all here, and they brought all of their friends and relatives along for the ride.I'm always amazed by the way Hemingway explored the heroic and the hopeful in his novels, but zoomed in so tightly on life's "dark side" in his short stories...
The book reinforced to me that "dialogue is everything", nobody wins, but everyone changes, punctuation needs to be used for rhythm, actions are harder to describe indirectly but are more powerful when done that way, word repetitions are okay if they create effect, passive voice for scene setting is okay, and sentences that run along like this one are great - all taboos with today's writing schools and editors.
Hemingway is audacious by having the characters in a story set in Wyoming run through most of their dialogue in French - however the structure and content was such that this anglophone got it!He frequently uses a panoramic viewpoint, focussing on an entire scene before zooming down to a character's POV within it - very cinematic.
tabi bu kitabı da çok sevdim ama Klimanjaro'daki geri kalan öyküleri buradakilere nazaran daha beğendim için onu tercih edebilirsiniz bence.niye süründürdüm ben bu kitabın yorumunu: çünkü hakkında okuyordum.
ki bence, şahsım adına söylemiyorum, öykü okumak da her babayiğidin harcı değil.ve okumayı sadece anlamak olarak söylemiyorum, tabi ki yazının sahip olduğu akım, dil, üslup çok daha önemli, ama öykü okumak, film izlerken sinematografisini, planlarını, sekanslarını anlamak gibi bir çaba gerektiriyor.
:D mesela şu: yani demek istediğim illa öykülerinde size verecek bi mesajı falan yok, o dönemi size eğip büküp işleyip burma bilezik gibi de sunmuyor ama minnacık da olsa bir şey yakalamamak elde değil, tema olarak da, işleyiş olarak da vesaire.kitabın 'eski' arka kapak yazısı bence öyküleri daha güzel açıklıyor.
It includes one of my all time favorite stories, "A Clean Well Lighted Place" That story's dialogue between two waiters who are waiting for their last customer, a lonely, deaf old man, to leave is simple, straightforward, and short but says more about loneliness, compassion, estrangement, and empathy than any novel fifty times as long"The Light of the World" is another story that is almost dialogue, most taking place at a train station between Hemingway's alter ego character, Nick Adams, his friend, and others waiting for a train including five prostitutes.
My first Hemingway and i loved it
Winner Take Nothing was Hemingway’s third major collection of short stories, published in 1933 between his two non-fiction works, Death in the Afternoon and The Green Hills of Africa.
Hemingway, now universally recognized as the master of the short story, may have included in this volume several not so memorable pieces but overall the stories continue to challenge and inform.Death and/or aging are major themes: “A Clean, Well-Lighted Place”; “God Rest You Merry Gentlemen”; “A Natural History of the Dead” reprinted from Death in the Afternoon; “A Day’s Wait”; “Fathers and Sons”.
Hemingway'i severim ama bu derlemedeki öyküler bana göre değildi. İki üç öykü dışında aradığımı bulamadım.
A collection of short stories by one of my favorite authors. These are not necessarily my favorites but Hemingway's minimalistic, terse style give the stories a forthright impact that is unmistakable.
The Sea Change is three and a half pages, yet we know almost everything we need to know about Phil and the Girl instantly, and Hemingway makes us care.He also expresses setting so perfectly and sparingly that we feel we're in this tiny bar in Paris, yet the description of the bar is implied, mirrored in his descriptions of the couple and James the bartender.
His comfort is rocked, not by his Lover's infidelity (for what can that really mean in a world where love cannot be controlled?), but by his realization that he is not the man he tried to be.
In fact, it gets so dark I had to take a break in my Hemingway-a-thon.
Most of the longer ones lost my interest, and some of the shorter ones like "God Rest You Merry, Gentlemen," "The Mother of a Queen," and "A Natural History of the Dead" seem weirdly divorced from their setting and make me appreciate why "show, don't tell" is a thing.
That just seems like an oversight.
On the whole, I'd say the collection is unpolished, even unfinished, and I'm surprised Hemingway would have let it be published in this state.
You can read the review on my blog: http://embracingmybooks.blogspot.be/2...
This book contains a collection of short stories.This book was a bit of a disappointment. None of the stories (except for the first one) felt complete – there were more like snippets of complete stories.Overall rating 2.5
SIX WORD REVIEW: Story was on state's Regent exam.
Nevertheless, it contains some excellent work, such as "A CLEAN, WELL-LIGHTED PLACE", which narrates the story of three characters who might as well be different faces of one person, or "HOMAGE TO SWITZERLAND" which shows events happening at the same time from the perspectives of multiple characters.
As is the case with all of Hemingway's books, it can be easily perceived that he writes from a personal perspective and that his ability to write so well is only possible because his narrations obtain their power from real experiences and the effect they had on him.
Hemingway makes excellent use of "show rather than tell" throughout the collection and most of the action occurs off-stage, giving a very methodical pace to the stories.
This type of dark humor is a theme in this collection and makes its way into most of the stories, whether it's joking about castration or asking a doctor's opinion about "sifilus", Hemingway doesn't pull any punches.
Hemingway really gives the reader a detailed and accurate account of death, sorrow, poverty, and emptiness in these stories.
The reason this doesn't get 5 stars is that his other two short story collections captured my thoughts and feelings in a much more dramatic way than this one did.
how to write a review of a Hemingway book? It's great. stories in world war 1 Europe. stories in the American west. in the Caribbean. stories of blank horror. funny stories. overall I think it's a bit more positive in tone than his normal stuff.
My favorite stories in this collection: A Way You'll Never Be; The Sea Change; The Light of the World; A Clean, Well-Lighted Place; and After the Storm. Classic Hemingway.
I have a better grasp now on why the dude blew his own brains out.
Winner Take Nothing is a collection of short stories which is not likely to change the minds of those who feel such old white men are overrated, but this very uneven collection of stories effectively demonstrates both the strengths and weaknesses of this famous and colorful author.
Hemingway does a parody of a scientific taxonomy from a biology textbook called, “A Natural History of the Dead.” It is clever; it is bleak; and it is extremely well-written.The only story I really disliked in the entire collection was called “Wine of Wyoming.” But the story doesn’t read like it took place in Wyoming and it doesn’t make sense to have it set in Wyoming.
Chociaż przypuszczam, iż 14 opowiadań zawartych w tomie „Winner Take Nothing” zostały zawarte w innych antologiach krótkich opowiadań Hemingwaya, które były publikowane na różne sposoby przez różne wydawnictwa w ostatnich dziesięcioleciach.Zbiór opowiadań „Winner Take Nothing” został wydany po raz pierwszy w roku 1933, cztery lata po publikacji „Pożegnania z Bronią”.Niniejszy zbiór opowiadań potwierdza, iż Hemingway świetnie czuje się jako pisarz krótkiej formy.
Lecz niestety w każdym takim przypadku jedynie co możemy zrobić to sami domyśleć się dalszego rozwoju akcji, dalszych losów bohaterów.W niniejszym zbiorze opowiadań poznajemy losy bardzo wielu osób.
Myślę, że twórczość Hemingwaya muszę dawkować w małych porcjach i nie jest to literatura zbytnio rozrywkowa.
Jednak całość jest dość powierzchowna.
Z psychologicznego punktu widzenia można by stwierdzić, iż twórczość Hemingwaya jest dość płytka lub jałowa.
Alas, the bell of Ernest Hemingway's writing does not toll for me.
However, I did enjoy "The Old Man and the Sea", and at least some of his short stories are good.
He assumes a bit too much of the reader for my taste.
If I find myself thinking, "OK, he expects me to connect the dots here as to place, characters, and time: I do get a bit impatient with his style.
If you like his novels, you may enjoy his short stories as well.
His writing often strikes me as moody and a bit dreary; maybe it was the effects of the alcohol.
Best worth it for the late Nick Adams stories (one with him having a demonstrated PTSD/TBI situation coming on after a bad wounding), and the pseudo-autobiographical final story, "Fathers and Sons," this is Hemingway at the height of his maturity as a short story writer, at his most intertextual and self-referential he ever gets, and his collection in which you're most likely to get genetic foreshadowing of his literary children, most noticeably in approaches, settings, and thematic motifs later extrapolated upon successfully by Denis Johnson, Thom Jones, and Charles Bukowski.
To be absolutely clear: "Fathers and Sons" alone bumped this one from 4 to 5 stars for me.
I'm a Hemingway fan, but that doesn't mean I like everything he's done, nor all the topics he chose to write about.
Nevertheless there is no denying his power as a writer.
This story collection dates to 1933 and includes one of his most famous short works, "A Clean Well-lighted Place" as well as what I consider to be one of his very finest and most memorable short stories, the opener "The Short Happy Life of Frances Macomber."In all there are 17 short stories in this collection and several to me were very minor things which keeps me from rating this book higher.
Anyone who is interested in Hemingway should read this however for the better stories and to see his breadth as a writer.
There is some powerful stuff in here.3 1/2+ stars
Hemingway's short stories often feel like part of a longer tale, a world that extends beyond them.
Not surprisingly, we have recurring characters (not always identified as such).
This does not bother me at all; I rather like it but can understand that some do not.The stories here are as good as the earlier ones, which is pretty good.
He does occasionally succumb to a bit of gimmickry, but generally lets the ideas come from the narrative, not the other way around.
All in all, well worth the read--even those stories that are not the best are still well written and very much show Hemingway's strengths as a writer.
Another Hemingway collection of short stories, this one published in 1933. I found that several of these stories I have previously read on some other occasion. My favorite, a dark war satire was the story titled, "A Natural History of The Dead". This is a nice early collection, a quick read, but not on my short list of Hemingway favorites.
As someone who hadn't read Hemingway since high school, this collection of short stories showed me how much of an artist that he truly was. His vivid descriptions made you feel like you were dropped into the particular setting of each story. I really liked enjoyed this work and I'd highly recommend it looking for an introduction to Hemingway.
A bunch of stories that I didn't care too much for, or only cared little for, but "The Sea Change" p. 61-70 absolutely grabbed me by the heart and balls. I also appreciated "A Clean, Well-Lighted Place", p. 25-34 and Homage to Switzerland.
I found the title most appropriate. Over and over the characters in these short stories get exactly what they wanted and are no better off for it.
Not impressed at all by this one; barely one of the short stories was interesting.
Von Hemingway hätte ich mehr erwartet...
