https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/473850.Make_Room_Make_Room_
McDonald's springs to mind!👍🐯Monsanto too!
This novel is a lesson in exceptional world-building.We learn significant background details such as information involving food riots, foodstuffs made from plankton, soy bean and lentil steaks, ever increasing prices of commodities, water shortages, debates about birth control, and that all of the characters suffer from physical ailments resultng from mal-nutrition or disease.
The author provides this well fleshed, intricate picture of the world without dropping major dumps of info that would clog up the natural flow of the story.
It’s New York City and the population has skyrocketed to 35 million.
You wouldn’t want to even visit it for ten minutes.CHUNK!This humble word is Harry Harrison’s absolute favourite.
Willynilly is another of my favourite words.BILLY NO MATES - A THEORYMy latest literary insight is that in most novels, especially thrillerish ones, the protagonist has no friends.
Make Room!’s two main characters begin with one sort of friend for him* and none for her.
*Our hero’s friend is nothing more than a SOCK PUPPET so that Harry Harrison can explain his ideas of how overpopulation killed the USA and will kill the whole human race unless we embrace birth control.
Before we had dystopian novels being pushed out like crazy in the 2000's, Make Room, Make Room!
came out in 1966 and brought up a bleak and disturbingly believable dystopian future world, one filled with extreme overpopulation, pollution and madness.
It's still just as chilling today, in fact the 21st century has made it even more believable than it used to be, making for a frightening but very intriguing book.If you're a fan of the 1970's film Soylent Green, well, Make Room, Make Room!
And the film's memorable scene with the detective screaming out "SOYLENT GREEN IS PEOPLE!
“So mankind gobbled in a century all the world’s resources that had taken millions of years to store up, and no one on the top gave a damn or listened to all the voices that were trying to warn them, they just let us overproduce and overconsume until now the oil is gone, the topsoil depleted and washed away, the trees chopped down, the animals extinct, the earth poisoned, and all we have to show for this is seven billion people fighting over the scraps that are left, living a miserable existence—and still breeding without control.
In New York, where the novel is set, millions of people are living on the streets, public transportation is no longer in operation, and all basic necessities are strictly rationed.
First thing, Forget about the movie Soylent Green which was based on Harry Harrison's novel about overpopulation, Make Room!
Make Room!.
There is no Charleston Heston screaming , "Soylent Green is people!" and nothing about cannibalism.
Robinson in the movie and the best thing about the film) is most memorable with his ability to remember the past and his examination of where they went wrong.
Yet all the novel's protagonists are nicely developed.
Considering the topic, this is actually a fairly subtle novel and one of the best novels by veteran Sci-fi writer Harrison.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Malthus: "Make Room!
Make Room!" by Harry Harrison(Original Review, 1980-08-19)Pournelle's virulently infectious optimism is severely misplaced.
Other people have already pointed out that his strategy involves the probable abandonment of Earth and the bulk of its population (what-the-hell, they're just gooks anyway); I'll just add that even RAH [2018 EDIT: Heinlein] saw this approx.
30 years ago (in FARMER IN THE SKY a character acknowledges that even with the huge ships in use they can't possibly take off more than a fraction of the population increase -- or absorb it in a colonial world; they're simply hoping to have some racial survival after Earth is ruined).
But let me tell you, as dramatic as the movie is, with Charlton Heston as main character Andy Rusch giving the infamous scream of (view spoiler)[Soylent Green is PEOPLE!!
And this makes the book feel much more terrifying, because it is easier to imagine our world becoming exactly like Harrison's New York City.
Solomon spends time in the second part of the book talking about why the country has turned out the way it has, and his words feel like something we could be hearing today.
I remember the riots, the pressure, the senseless violence, and the massive levels of injustice AND stupidity that brought us to this state.And yet, after reading this novel, that sense is more visceral, more realistic, and a lot less sensational.
and a New York City of 35 million in the novel is pretty damn close to what some cities are reaching now, true, but the quality of life is NOT as bad as predicted in Harrison's novel.Of course, in some ways, the violence, the poverty, and the cultural clamp-downs are WORSE in our world.
Good morning class! Now, hands up everyone who knows what Soylent Green is made of. Ah, that's very good. I'm glad to see you read your assignment.I'm sorry, we're not quite finished yet. What is the book's original title? No, of course it isn't a trick question. You should have read it a little more carefully...
My favorite parts of the book were Sol's railing against the anti-birth control agenda, and Peter the homeless preacher's despair at it NOT being the end of the world when the clock strikes midnight on Jan 1, 2000.
"A thousand more years of THIS??"These bits were the most real and tangible and human parts of the book for me.
I have a hard time ignoring these things just because the book is 50 years old and things were different then.
I can't get down with that shit.I seriously never thought I'd ever say that my favorite parts of a book would be the PREACHY bits.
This must sit alongside The Death of Grass as one of the most intelligent responses in the science fiction canon to the ecological disaster that threatens our race and planet and best of all it doesn't have its own political agenda offering absurd L.Ron Hubbard like theories as the saviour of civilisation.I know Harry Harrison from his Stainless Steel Rat and Bill, The Galactic Hero books which seem to specialise in being a bit silly, but this works brings a whole new level of respect to his work.
The story is told quite seriously which may come as a surprise to folks familiar with Harrison's OTT spoof/satires starring the Stainless Steel Rat and the points are made deftly - except towards the end when one of the characters turns into a talking head and starts handing out lectures about contraception, Catholicism and politics.
It's also a bit of a shame that the only pleasant female character is the most minor one.I can't help contrasting this book with A Torrent of Faces in which a future population of 1 Trillion people is postulated.
Of course, the scene that everyone remembers from the film - Charleston Heston yelling, "Soylent Green is people!" at the end - never appears in the book.
Sorry, kids, no cannibalism in this rather slow read from the 1960s, but lots of commentary on the dangers of overpopulation.It's actually a fairly depressing story about environmental collapse: the food is pretty much gone and it's hot all the time due to global warming (yep, we knew that was coming way back in the '60s.
That's actually one of the most darkly comic scenes in the novel: with overpopulation literally crushing the life out of the planet, Congress argues over the "morality" of allowing women to use birth control.
Yıllar önce izlediğim Soylent Green'in, birebir uyarlandığı kitap olarak düşünüyordum, ama baya farklılık varmış; hele ki filmi özellikle vurucu yapan kısma acaba ne zaman geleceğim diye beklerken, kitabın bitişiyle öyle bir kısmın olmadığını anladım. Çoğu kişi belki de bu yüzden "uyarlandığı kitaptan daha iyi olan filmler" listesine ekleyecektir S.G.'yi.

Inevitable? Dystrophic in Dystopia. Imagined or Insighted? This 1973 synopsis sounds like a current headline: In 2022, with 40 million people in New York City alone, housing is dilapidated and overcrowded; homeless people fill the streets and food is scarce; and most of the population survives on rations produced by the Soylent Corporation, whereof the newest product is Soylent Green, a green wafer advertised to contain "high-energy plankton", more nutritious and palatable than its predecessors "Red" and "Yellow", but in short supply.
It's a chore to read because there's no crescendo, no climax, no resolution--just a few months in the life of dystopian future New York as seen through the eyes of a couple of its unremarkable citizens.Perhaps the biggest disappointment of all, though, was getting 3/4 of the way through the book only to find that the reason HH wrote it was to frame a screed against the Catholic Church (and all other "bluenoses") for their opposition to birth control--the sole factor which, in this world, has led to a shockingly unsustainable population of 7 billion (!) by the year 1999, and all Earth's resources have been depleted.
Greenberg, who somehow took this bland story with forgettable and unlovable characters and spun it into one of the best told, best written sci-fi films ever.Interestingly, Harry Harrison died almost 5 months to the day after the world population was estimated to reach 7 billion.
Food is a precious commodity and water is rationed,except for the rich who have speakeasy-like secret meat markets for their shopping pleasures and can enjoy long showers in their guarded apartments.One of the defenders of the people in this overpopulated New York City filled with desperate people is Andy Rusch who lives in a room next to Sol, an elderly man who fills Andy's head with his old stories & opinions.
According to the author's obituary, Tom Doherty, founder of Tor Books, noted that Harrison saw science fiction as a medium that "caused people to think about our world and what it could become.” That's one major reason I read sci-fi, although I have to admit I'm partial to older novels like this one.
Alcohol and meat are almost impossible to find; most people survive on composite foods made of lentils, soy and seaweed.
And it is a world-builder’s book, I guess, a sort of Malthusian thought-experiment taken to some kind of conclusion.
Whether it is logical or not, I don’t know; it starts from the proposition that the population boomed because the US government never endorsed or supported any kind of birth control program, and I really have no idea how plausible that may have seemed when this was written in the mid-sixties.
It was really interesting to watch the movie just after finishing the book and compare the two.
According to the book the only decent place left to live in the world is Denmark, and that is just because they shoot people on sight if they try to breach the border.
(AWESOME.) It makes you wonder at what point our country would actually institute a mandatory birth control policy.
People stay where they are in this book because there is no way to go anywhere else.
There aren't enough food supplies for people to even stock up enough to move across the country on foot a la the pioneers.
Soylent Green provides a more exciting story with a nice conspiracy and twist at the end, while Make Room! Make Room! provides more thought provoking material while giving a more in depth look at life in an overpopulated world.
Whoever turned this into the movie Soylent Green was brilliant.
I was initially disappointed with novel on which the awesome movie Soylent Green was loosely based.
The only things the book and movie have in common are the issue of over-population, two mentions of the word 'Soylent", Sol, a minor character in the book and Shirl, a much different character in the book.
The concerns raised by this book are happening today: the seas are rising, the oceans dying, a majority of humans live at subsistence levels, potable water is becoming scarce, global warming is happening and the politics of big business is preventing all solutions.
This book warned of the effects of over-population and its effects on the environment in the mid '60s, a warning humans ignored.
Part crime noire, part dystopian, Harry Harrison makes a dramatic departure from his regular work, abandoning the humour and adventure of Death World and The Stainless Steel Rat and attempting to enter the world of Huxley and Orwell.
In many ways he succeeds, painting a bleak yet very human New York of his future.
Unfortunately, the start-stop crime narrative bogs down the story as it detracts from the already desperate situation the characters are in.
At times it feels that Harrison took two stories and rammed them together.
Not necessarily a fun read, it is still very relevant, and captures the extreme consequences of overpopulation and unchecked capitalism in a very real way.
This was the basis for the movie "Soylent Green" with Charlton Heston & Edward G. Robinson. Superb!
Wait a minute, you mean "Soylent Green"  Isn't  people!?!?
And while alcohol is certainly at a premium, proteins such as meat are even more so -- hence, "meateasies" as opposed to "speakeasies."Against this backdrop we meet NYPD detective Andy Rusch, whose job is largely futile, and whose personal life consists of a shared apartment with an spirited elderly man named Sol. We also meet street kid Billy Chang, whose ill-advised attempt at burglary leads to murder -- a murder that Rusch gets assigned to investigate.
The crime story is completely incidental -- the real meat of the book is overpopulation, lack of birth control, lack of research in environmental consequences of consumption, etc.
The plot of the film is somewhat different, and the book doesn't turn people into food.
There's all sorts of interesting details about how people survive when there's no more meat (that any of US would want to eat, anyway), no steady supply of food other than crackers made from processed and crumbled seaweed, and next to no water.
There's no grand conspiracy - the murder mystery is pretty much a red herring through the whole book - there's just a lot of people running around trying to MAKE things seem connected while the world dies.I did get a little chuckle at the beginning with the apocalyptic chapter header: Monday, August 9,1999.
This book makes me want to get a rain barrel and start hoarding water.
Author Harry Harrison wrote in 1984 about the technique of background-as-foreground - the story for the main characters is really a means to capture the readers attention and draw them to the greater truth of the setting.
Disease plays only a small role here, but then the scope of the novel is roughly 6 months.The main character is a policeman, with side stories covering his target and a judge who influences his duties.
Harry Harrison wrote all about it in an article published in Omni, which fortunately lives online here - http://www.iol.ie/~carrollm/hh/soycan...
