https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8049273-the-elegant-universe
Smolin's The Trouble with Physics, which I read much more recently, suggests that string theory is in big trouble, and right now I am more tempted to side with Smolin.There's this old Nasrudin story, where he's somehow ended up as judge in a court case.
The introduction says clearly that supersymmetry is essential to string theory/M-theory, and moreover that the LHC should be able to reach high enough energies to produce supersymmetric particles, if they do in fact exist.
Susskind, one of the foremost proponents of string theory and a world-renowned expert on fundamental physics in general, said ten years ago that the LHC would soon find the superpartners/supersymmetric particles if they were there.

Do I understand string theory? Not sure.Do I understand M theory? A little bit but don't ask for any algebraic reasoning.Do I know exactly what a Calabi-Yau is? Not really but I think they look a little like the hair balls from my cat.This is the second time I've equated quantum physics and all its detours to a hair-ball. That's because I can study a hair ball and still have no idea what it is for and why they exist. String Theory and the elusive TOE is in the same category. I could go on my en
Do I understand string theory?
Not sure.Do I understand M theory?
Not really but I think they look a little like the hair balls from my cat.This is the second time I've equated quantum physics and all its detours to a hair-ball.
That's because I can study a hair ball and still have no idea what it is for and why they exist.
String Theory and the elusive TOE is in the same category.
Or can they?That is essentially the dilemma of string theory and the book.
I really like this type of book.
Hair balls and string theories have something else in common.
I left Christianity a few years ago and swore off religion altogether; however, after reading this book, string theory has become tantamount to religion in my life.
Since Green wrote his book string theory has come under intense scrutiny; despite this, I would still support this book on the basis that it is gorgeously written, based in fact (many of the experiments and proofs were done by Greene himself), and incredibly informative.
A vertible Bible of where we came from, where we're going and the incredibly complex way things function in this glorious universe of ours.
Perhaps these beings are real and at certain levels of dimensional perception they have already seen and experienced these advancements in human history like a child being taught 2+2 to the wave compilation of an electron Y=h/mc = 2.43*10-12m.Mathematics, My Daddy says is simply a game or a toy for the mind.
As you all can see, all the so called greatest mathematicians and scientists and physicists humans' scholars humans gave so much high regards to have immediately realized that all those books and all those studies and all those "humans once thought of as knowledge" became child's play if not garbage right upon My Daddy revealed this Universal Truth and Knowledge.
To think I put all that effort to understand a discredited theory...
لنقل ان الفيزياء تنقسم الى نظريات .فيزياء كلاسيكة ، فيزياء حديثة .الفيزياء الكلاسيكة تفسر الكون على اساس معادلات نيوتن وهي صادقة لحد كبير في التنبوءات ومازالت تستعمل وتدرس في المدارس لحد الآن.الحديثة تنقسم الى عدة اقسام : نظرية النسبية العامة والخاصة .
مؤمنون بالله في اعماق انفسهم ..انه كون باهر لدرجة لا تصدق انه رائع ومدهش ومميز وليس عشوائيا ..
ممتعا مسليا ممتازا غامضا مليئا بالاسرار مشوق مثير وكل الصفات الرائعة التي تجعلك متحمساً ..لذا لا غرابة في ان سمى كتابه (الكون الانيق (..انه ببساطة كذلك ..من مقال لي : بوزون هيغز : الرابط للمقال الكامل هنا :http://goo.gl/X3OGJf
For such a complicated and often "non intuitive" subject, Greene does an excellent job of laying out in understandable terms: (1) the evolution of special relativity into general relativity; (2) the basics of quantum dynamics; (3) the fundamental conflict between general relativity and quantum dynamics; and (4) the amazing development of string theory and (5) the prospects for string theory to be able to resolve the conflcit between general relativity and quantum mechanics and come up with a Unified Theory of Everything (the fabled TOE).
Now even with Greene's fantastic explanations, once we got beyond the basics of string theory and onto such concepts as 10 "spatial" dimensions, mirror symmetry and Calabi-Yau manifolds, there were times when the subject matter was just difficult to grasp on an intuitive level.
After introducing string theory, after explaining that it is a strategy with the potential to marry relativity and quantum mechanics, after getting you (the lay-reader) excited that you too will have some insight into the critical significance that is superstring theory — he glosses over some math (which doesn't really feel like physics after that first 120 pages) and more/less asks you to "bear with me here, trust me..." EXAMPLE: after introducing the concept of strings, the text rushes into a discussion of 6-dimensional "curled up" Calabi-Yau manifolds without really giving a good way of visualizing that whole mess[†:].
; it will be interesting to see how Lisi's proposal affects the future of string/superstring theory as the most likely path towards that elusive group-wedding of the four forces.
If light is moving at the speed of light through space—not time—is it possible that its entire permutation from Big Bang through to Cosmic Deflation would be accessible in a single given moment of time, i.e, if some manner of consciousness—not necessarily as we conceive of it—was to exist at that level of configuration, would the entirety of past, present, and future—the ticking tenure that provides the structural frame for the playing out of human existence—be available?
I've been a part of this group- the largest-best Bay Area Book club!!!!In the 5 years I been part of this group, I can't remember a more challenging book to fully understand.
I took soooo many notes, and I've still a dozen questions, yet the author does do an excellent job in explaining the new advances of the cosmos that have come to light during this last decade.
The author explained over and over...
So the lay person may understand that we must merge general relativity and quantum mechanics--and make use of string theory.
It's the 'teaching' of the ways string theory appears which begins to get more challenging to comprehend.
This book blew my mind countless times as I read through it, so much so that I could usually only read 10-20 pages in one sitting.
I had physics in high school, watched Cosmos and tons of other programs on the universe/relativity/quantum physics etc.
Trust me, your mind will be doing flip flops when he talks about time bending, space travel, etc.
After he builds the foundation, he sets the stage to cover string theory which many believe will be the next great leap in figuring out why the universe exists and where is it going.
Awesome read to keep your mind sharp.
كتاب ممتع إلى أقصى الحدودلا يتطلب منك معرفة عميقة بالفيزياءبل فقط يكفي الشغف حول معرفة هذا الكون الأنيق
Some have taken presentism to indicate that time travel is impossible for there is no future or past to travel to; however, recently some presentists have argued that although past and future objects do not exist, there can still be definite truths about past and future events, and that it is possible that a future truth about the time traveler deciding to return to the present date could explain the time traveler's actual presence in the present.[5] This view is contested by another contemporary advocate of presentism, Craig Bourne, in his recent book 'A Future for Presentism', although for substantially different (and more complex) reasons.
I read this book while taking a course (for non-physics students) called Modern Physics in Perspective, which centered on string theory.
If you're reading this book unassisted, be aware that there are some very confusing sections that you'll need to read a few times.
Also, I've discovered that many physicists have an unhealthy obsession with their research pet projects- I'd advise that you ignore the sections on Calabi-Yau shapes entirely.These faults aside, The Elegant Universe is the only book about science that I have ever read from start to finish and enjoyed from start to finish.
Physics books. Can I understand them properly? No. Am I still absolutely fascinated by them? Yes. String Theory. Do I understand it properly? Hell no. Am I fascinated by it? To the last detail.
As Greene wrote the book just a few years after the Second Superstring Revolution, it makes sense that the arguments aren't as well-developed as those describing theories and experiments perfected and refined over the past 100 years or so.
I really enjoyed the last few chapters: one on black holes, one about cosmology, and the final chapter, entitled "Prospects," in which Greene discusses the implications of string/M-theory on future thought and the possible questions string/M-theory may be able to answer.
I also enjoyed Greene's writing style, especially the examples/metaphors/analogs he presented the reader with for help in understanding the extremely subtle topics he discusses.
Molto bene, a me qualcosa sembra di aver capito.Il bello di questo libro, molto elegante, è che è scritto così bene che ti sembra di capire tutto.
Poi, quando sei contento perché pensi di aver raggiunto il tuo scoglio su cui aggrapparti felice, in mezzo a tutte queste turbolenze quantistiche, ti spiazza dimostrandoti che non è così, del resto abbiamo capito che dobbiamo esser pronti a tutto: tutto è relativo (Einstein) e tutto è assai indeterminato (fisica quantistica).Forti di queste certezze incerte, colpisce il fatto che i fisici dei quanti nella visione cosmogologica arrivino a teorizzare cose postulate secoli fa dai filosofi Greci o dai corsi e ricorsi di Vico o dell'Univesro eterno e dei molti mondi di Tommaso Bruno.
- but I have to say that Brian Greene didn't endear it to me.I also fervently found myself wishing for the Nth time that science books were not so firmly divided between "professional, terrifying math texts" and "written for people who never figured out the Theory of Relativity".
I think we need "Science for the Educated Sci-Fi Reader" or something like that.
As it is, unless you're Stephen Hawking, who pretty much has the right to do anything he liked, if you're trying to explain relativity to me, again, you will put me off.
رابط التحميل : http://adf.ly/Yd6Sn
The fact of the matter is that there are essentially two opposing theories upon which rests our knowledge of the universe: General Relativity and Quantum Mechanics.
They claim that all fundamental particles are composed of tiny vibrating strings of energy whose movement gives rise to all those different particles that we know of.
And in so doing, not only do these strings fit into Quantum theory, but they're also able to accurately predict the whys and wherefores of the big bulks of matter, like those of stars and galaxies!
So you’re telling me that the universe is this big cosmic symphony whose musical notes are the sounds exuded by the movement of strings?
Purtroppo, nonostante questo, non ho una mente particolarmente adatta allo studio delle materie scientifiche e quindi non sono diventata, ahimè, una scienziata, ma almeno ora so cosa voglio fare nella mia prossima vita.
Brian Greeene rende questo viaggio quasi una tranquilla scampagnata in compagnia di qualche amico.
Attraverso l'impiego di metafore accessibili anche ai non esperti, riesce ad illustrare con semplici parole dei concetti che non avrei mai pensato di riuscire a padroneggiare.
Oddio, non che ora li padroneggi perfettamente, ma almeno so quello che volevo sapere e, con mia grande sorpresa, mi sono accorta che alcuni concetti che credevo fossero pura fantascienza esistono davvero, il che per me è strabiliante.

The first chapters were amazing and engaging, however later chapters about string theory were very hard for me to understand and I actually didn't finish the whole book, because I could not understand what I was reading.The author uses many metaphors to make his ideas simpler.
He starts with a very easy to understand telling of history of scientific discoveries reaching to the theory of general relativity and quantum physics and the unification efforts.
He maintains that string theory could be the one that finally unifies them and explain the number of particles we have and their specific masses and properties.My understanding of special and general relativity theories was greatly enhanced after reading it here as well as that of quantum physics.
من أفضل وأهم الكتب التي قرأتها في حياتي. الالقوانين الجديدة للجاذبية جعلت من العالم يغير من نظرته الكلاسيكية عن عالم الفيزياء و عملت على تغيير مفهومنا ونظرتنا للكون. نظرية الأوتار الفائقة مكنت الفيزيائيين الاقتراب من نظرية موحدة سميت -M هذه النظرية التي تسمى نظرية كل شيء و قد تفوقت على ميكانيكا الكم التي لم تدمج الجاذبية في حساباتها. نظرية -M لم تكتمل بعد لعدم مقدرة الفيزيائيين على تصورها في شكلها النهائي فمازال البحث طويلا ولكن بالمقابل دمجت القوى الأربع- الجاذبية . القوى الضعيفة . القوى القوية. القوى الكهرومغناطيسية. - لنقترب من معرفة كيف ولماذا خلق الكون؟
Readers who have not discovered Greene should no waste one minute more!
Temel aldığı konular üzerine yazılmış en önemli en azından Türkçe çevirisi yapılanlar arasında en önemli eserlerden biri. Yalnız benzer bazı ünlü örneklerle karşılaştırıldığında pek çok bölümünde belli bir altyapı bekleyen bir kitap olduğunu belirtmek gerek. Captain Fantastic filminde kızlardan biri bu kitabı okuyordu diye hatırlıyorum.
As far as I understand, none of the string theories makes falsifiable predictions or suggests doable experiments compatible with today's technology.Greene admits by his own writing that string theories have not delivered what they have been invented for, in spite of intense research for more than 15 years (the book was written in the 90s'):- the seemingly arbitrary values of the standard model masses and force charges have not been explained- the number of possible implementations of the theories is so big that any specific real world observation can be explained by at least some of the myriad of possible solutions these thought models allow.In spite of these facts, the reader is invited to believe that string theories are the only way forward for physics in the 21st century.
While I understand he is probably the leading public proponent of string theory, I felt that his oversimplification lead to some really problematic axioms and it was upon these shaky foundations that he tried to map out string theory.
This may also be an oversimplification, but the theory strikes me as designed to be mathematically expedient, so while most theories are tested to find out if the equations work, this theory has the equations designed to work in the framework before it is even tested.
Dr. Greene, unfortunately, imagines himself to be a much better writer and expositor than he actually is.
Far too much time is wasted on silly examples to explain his points; so much that the analogies not only break down but become absurd.
These concepts are not very difficult.
Dr. Greene fairly well crosses the line into talking down instead of explaining things.However, this book has some rather well laid out charts and diagrams and other visual aids.
It almost makes up for the long-windedness.The universe & Dr. Greene's charts are elegant; Dr. Greene's writing is not.
