https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2861174-the-old-tobacco-shop
Three-quarters of the book consists of a trippy expedition to the Spanish Main, possibly real or possibly (as we learn in the last chapter) a delirious hallucination by the little boy; the expeditioneers are the boy, the tobacconist, the tobacconist's wooden advertising figure come alive, and various figures from the tobacconist's tall tales, plus a mime.This is possibly the only book I have ever read that needed improvement where SUDDENLY, PIRATES didn't actually improve it.
This was an odd book for me. It's a 1922 Newberry honor book otherwise I never would have tried it or known about it. It has a kind of Alice in Wonderland quality to it. Tim Burton would have a Great time with this book. I got impatient with this nonsensical type of adventure they were on (and even skimmed parts), but I really liked some of the characters (Aunt Amanda in particular. She was a little sad and very endearing). It's not my favorite book, but I'm glad I became acquainted with it.
I can see why it was a Newbery Honor book for 1922. Sadly, I suspect that the strange 'tobacco' in the Chinaman's head and Freddie's use of it would no longer be considered politically correct (or safe for young readers). I can't recall another book quite like it and if I'd read it as a child I'm certain that the images it conjures up would have stayed with me forever. As it is, it pushed an awful lot of buttons. Loved it.
This is so very good. I'm surprised it was so difficult to find a copy. I'd recommend this to an 8 year old as a read-aloud. It reads a little like a Dickens or Jane Austen novel at times with mention of a place called High Dudgeon and the rag-bone man.Aunt Amanda, referring to her lost children: “Yes, I miss them a good deal, and I suppose I even cry sometimes because I haven’t got them. But I love to think about them. I’m happy thinking about them, even if I can’t have them.”
This is just the thing to while away the wee hours when you can't sleep on your dead sister's birthday and your other books require concentration.
While reading this book, I couldn't decide whether I liked it or not.
It's a Newberry Honor book from 1923, so I was expecting it to be a bit dated.
That shouldn't make a difference, though, but I'm now curious as to the required quality of work in the 20s that would award such a book as this with an honor.The body of the book was composed of one irrelevant, convoluted adventure after another.
It would be one thing if all the scattered silliness was nearly tied up at the end, but no.
The ending was just as irrelevant to the rest of the book as the adventures were.
I suspect that it was intended as a read-aloud given the young age of the child protagonist (5 or 6 yrs old); even skewing for the dumbing down of children's literature in the past 50 years and given that kids like to read up (about older kids), I can't think the reader was intended to be more than 6-8 and I don't think a child of that age could handle the text.
There is also a tale about the special magic tobacco in the Chinaman's head on a high shelf in the shop.
Fweddie finally learns to say his name properly and Toby takes Freddie to see Hanlon's magic act.
Mr. Littleback, a teller of fantastic tales, and his old-maid aunt, Aunt Amanda, take a shine to young “Fweddie” and he becomes a regular visitor to their shop.Sitting high on a shelf behind the counter is a tobacco canister shaped like a Chinaman’s head.
You can steal anything else in this shop, and it wouldn’t do much harm to anybody; but you keep your hands off that Chinaman’s tobacco, mind what I’m telling you!”A day comes when Mr. Toby asks Freddie to mind the shop for him, and, despite his best intentions to “yield not to temptation, for yielding is a sin,”, Freddie takes the Chinaman’s Head tobacco canister from its place on the shelf , filled the bowl of a churchwarden’s pipe, struck a match and drew in a long breath.
When it first started out, I (judging from my 21st Century mentality) had a hard time with the fact that towards the beginning of the book, a little boy was smoking.
I was also thinking that it was just going to turn out to be some kind of a hallucination because of the smoking, and I really didn't like that.
When it seemed part way through that it was turning into more of a fairy-tale, I started to like it a lot more, and I was debating about a 3 star rating.
It starts off a little dull, but amusing, because there’s expert-level trolling of a young child.
Was that the author’s intent?) Then the little boy does some heavy drugs, and everybody starts hardcore tripping.
However, the crux of the book seems to be relying on people’s desires to change their flaws, and kind of showcases that as a positive.
Ultimately, the point of their whole endeavor is to “be normal”, and the book kind of teaches that’s the best way to be.
So if that were changed, I’d recommend this book quite highly just for its sneaky wit.
This is a 1922 Newbery Honor Book.
Verbose descriptions ramble on and on and on...The rambling prose shows Freddy's youth to readers and was used to incorporate multiple puns but I found it irritating and I probably missed several of those puns because I skimmed through the needless detail.
I imagine that this book was probably once billed as a fun and easy learning tool for parents/teachers to use with children, but I don't know if I could sit through another re-reading (or, as a teacher, through multiple readings) of this book.
This is an interesting adventure story that I never would have read if it hadn't won a Newbery honor in 1922, the first year Newbery awards were given.
Because of the way the adventure started, with magic smoking tobacco, I thought it was going to end in the classic (and usually disappointing) "it was all a dream" ending.
Worrying about the ending ruined some of my enjoyment in the adventure while I was reading.
I kept wondering if I was going to regret taking the time to read this if it all turned out to be only a dream anyhow.
And I wasn't at all disappointed with the ending.
To me this book seemed like a bunch of people around a campfire telling a story. Every chapter the next person wanted to change the story, so it became something different. Yeah, things that were clearly important at the beginning of the book had absolutely no relevance sometimes only pages later. And yes, it seemed like there were competing directions the book should take. I also foresaw the ending quite clearly. The kid was sick and had a dream. Shocker.However, the book did hold my attention, so 3 stars it is.
1922 Newbery Honor BookThis book is public domain so I was able to get a copy off Project Gutenburg and read it digitally. I was not at all impressed with the book. It starts with a young boy named Freddie who visits a tobacco shop and gets to know the people who run the shop. One day Freddie smokes the Chinaman's tobacco which is enchanted and this pirate guy shows up and an adventure starts.
Getting close to finishing all the Newberry winners now... This won in 1922, otherwise, I would never have run into it. The story was ok, if a little confusing and long at times, and the main character, little Freddie was a cutie. Very much written in the vein of what you would expect from a kids book in 1922. Poorly developed characters and story, not much theme, but a lesson learned in the end. Overall, it was a nice change from my usual reading, but nothing fantastic.
I now have TWO, yes, TWO best books I've ever read! This one and the Last of the Really Great Whangdoodles. Both of these books were published long befor the 90's. I don't know what it is. Maybe it's the "old timey" language they use, or maybe it just the sheer joy of adventure; I don't mean the type that's in the Hunger Games, or Harry Potter, or The Lightning Thief. Whatever it is, it's irresistible and I LOVE it! I rate this book 7 out of 5 stars! It's at the top of my recommendations!
This book, a Gutenberg freebie, started out as a Dickensian-type story, then segued into an adventure with sailing ships, pirates and their booty, then a fairy tale within a fairy tale. One of the characters said, "My brain is in a whirl. Are we ourselves now, or were we ourselves before?" Indeed. I wasn't exactly fond of the ending, but enjoyed the story.
This was an odd little book that was full of adventure but didn't have have enough connection between them to hold my interest. Too many of the characters tended to talk a lot without getting to the point. It was also very much of its own time, so it is not surprising to me that this one doesn't seem to have lasted as well as some other books do.
This was one of the first Newbery Honor books selected. I enjoyed the adventure and word play and could picture a child in 1922 having a great time reading this. Lots of action, adventure and interesting characters that would particularly appeal to boy readers. It won't be one of my all-time favorites, but I had a great time reading it.
A 1922 Newbery Honor book. It is a fun adventure story, with some deeper messages to keep the adults on their toes. But there are definitely some aspects that show its date - The whole fantastic adventure begins when a young boy smokes some "magic tobacco" that he was told to stay away from!
A story of a young boy on a pipe dream.
'Enjoyed this throwback to the early 20th C when tobacco was okay and pipe tobacco was A-OK. The storyline reminded me of L. Frank Baum's The Wizard of Oz.
Newbery Honor Book 1922
What a fantastic adventure for a biy named Freddie!
Adventure with hunchbacks, treasure, pirates and so on. It's got a old feel to it as children's books written 1920s and before can have.
An unusual read. Makes you feel like you are on something as you read--or maybe they were when they wrote it. Intriguing.
