https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4404736-notes-on-democracy
The same reviewer, or maybe it was another, blames this book for not offering a viable solution to the problems of democracy, which is kind of weird to damn Mencken for since he is pretty clear about not offering anything better, and going against the current that holds that if you can't come up with some way to fix whatever is broken then shut your mouth and live with it.
I don't know anything about global warming, I hear things from some scientists, and then the right-wing people have their scientists, and it all comes out as sound-bytes, and I have no fucking idea which side is right, because I have never gone to really look into the information.
I'm not going to say this book is for everyone but it is definitely for those of us out there that watch the news and listen to certain groups or leaders thinking, "Seriously are there people out there buying this?" Then we come into contact with those who are in fact subscribing whole-heartily to an idiotic brainless existence.
Mencken's insights serve as a reminder to that fact and while the organizations may have changed and the leaders all have new names they are in essence the same.
I do share his hate for humanity, Amen to that...Because I do not belong to the "herd" and am not suffering from "mob mentality", I will give this book 3 stars opposed to the conformist Democratic men of goodreads.com and there conformist ratings of 4-5 stars (Mencken is looking up from hell, nodding in approval for my act of revolutionary individualism and intellect, I am a true rebel in the social networking community of sheep!...I need a drink).
We are so proud that this was Dissident Books' first release and that it turned out so well.
Mencken's words are as shocking and challenging--perhaps more so--as they were when Notes was first published in 1926.
It's hard to think of anything more holy to the American mind than democracy.
The introduction and extensive annotations by Marion Elizabeth Rodgers, author of Mencken: The American Iconoclast, open up vistas on the text that otherwise would go unnoticed by the average reader.
It's a fine nightcap to an evening (or a week, a month) spent with the Sage of Baltimore and Notes on Democracy: A New Edition.
Mencken is known for his wit, but if this book is any indication, that reputation is completely undeserved.
He tries hard to be clever, but fails almost every time.
Many admire Mencken for his anti-plebeian elitism.
This book is full of it, to be sure, but his is the sort of elitism one might find in an intelligent but immature 15-year-old boy; not a supposedly well-read grown man.On the whole, I found the book unimpressive, predictable and boring.
The one salient observation Mencken makes is this: “Man is not happy when free; he is uncomfortable, a bit alarmed, and intolerably lonely.
In most cases, perhaps, he is averse to sell his vote for cash in hand, but that is mainly because the price offered is too low.
Offering him such bribes, in fact, is the chief occupation of all political parties under democracy, and of all professional politicians.
The art of politics, under democracy, is simply the art of ringing it.
There is the art of the demagogue, and there is the art of what may be called, the demaslave.
The demaslave is one who listens to what these idiots have to say and pretends that he believes it himself.
Trying to read "Notes on Democracy" now and see past the early 20th century scientific conclusions to its supposed brilliance is like trying to watch Eddie Murphy's "Delirious" for the first time and not be distracted by all the dated gay jokes.
I guess basically, the things that were meant to be funny or thought provoking in the book didn't have anything to back them up beyond dated psychology which left me feeling like Mencken himself may not have been totally behind his own book today.
I would recommend this book to anybody interested in reading about theories of democracy or early 20th century U.S. History.
This particular book is brilliantly annotated.
I genuinely enjoyed reading the annotations as much as the book and I can't recall another book I have ever felt that way about.
However, he also writes with scathing generalizations and in the end comes off as a journalist of his times, albeit a very intelligent and great writer, but not as somebody who truly captures the finer nuances of either democracy or history.
I did enjoy reading this though and definitely recommend it.
Here the enfant terrible Mencken takes on democracy, the ostensible rule of the "common man."A bit tongue in cheek, of course, but clever and bitingly written. We won't see newspapermen this great again, alas!This edition is nicely annotated. Some of the period references are obscure.And democracy is highly overrated. Just watch some of Jay Leno's interviews with men-in-the street, and then tell me with a straight face how great universal suffrage is and we ought to encourage more people to vote!
Perfect election year reading. Dated in many respects - dismay for democracy in the 1920s had a racial tinge that it doesn't quite have today - but this is actually a learned discussion of the problems of democracy. Mencken was extremely well read, was a devotee of Nietzsche, and, for all his crude language about the "booboisie," had actually put a lot of thought into the dangers of mass democracy.
Mencken at his finest. A charming, curmudgeonly, and acerbic perspective on American democratic values and institutions. He inspires a deep cynicism in the reader regarding all the rituals and affectations of democracy: voting, politicking, campaigning, and the general idea of social betterment by democratic participation. Democracy may not be the worst form of government, but it's certainly the most humorous.
The book itself is not only bold in its aim (to discredit and attack that most cherished political institution) but also in the way Mencken goes about it—through a kind of rhetorical violence, an artillery barrage of wit, eloquence and scathing criticism.
If my opinion is any indication, however, I would say that Mencken does succeed in his broadest aim: to make the reader think critically about democracy and democratic society.
Mencken provides two arguments for it: firstly, he argues that it is self-evident on the basis of the decisions that democratic societies actually make.
The evangelical opposition to scientific progress evidently struck Mencken and Notes on Democracy is riddled with ironic asides about the Christian control of morality and censorship within American democracy, observations which no doubt contributed to his alienation and the comparative unpopularity of the book in contrast to his other writings of the period, though those who did not attack and condemn it as shallow were wont to consider it as verging on the satiric.Mencken divides the work into three sections, “Democratic Man”, “The Democratic State” and “Democracy and Liberty”.
Yes, the mob is unfit to rule but so is the king, whether he be a philosopher or not.Despite all of the foregoing, Mencken puts his finger squarely on the fundamental weakness of democracy: the fact that vast numbers of people (the electorate) are self-serving and are susceptible to being bamboozled by slick, simple answers to complex issues; they are comfortable when being told what they already want to believe, truth be damned.
After all, millions of supposedly intelligent Americans today choose to believe the lies being told by their own government.This book enraged a lot of liberal democrats in his day because it pilloried their sacred cows.
"Democracy is a pathetic belief in the collective wisdom of individual ignorance."Mencken wrote in the age before public choice theory was developed, and before regulatory capture became a recognized concept.
Mencken aims his fire at democracy.
Mencken describes his role as diagnostic, not therapeutic.
He is to be forgiven, therefore, for not suggesting another form of government which might lack the manifest defects of democracy he describes.
My opinion is that democracy's one great merit, the fact that makes it preferable to other forms of government, is that it is an imperfect, but surest safeguard against tyranny.
Nietzsche for the lumpen literatiI love reading Mencken for his stock in trade irreverence, his wordsmithery, for his enduring relevance. Mandeville with an attitude.
He clearly had his finger on the pulse of what is wrong with both the US governmental system as well as the general populace and their role in "democracy." Mencken in no way places the blame for our democratic ills solely upon government officials, but he evenly spreads it across the general "citizen" as well.In short, Mencken doesn't seem to have a whole lot of faith in humanity...and I don't blame him.It was incredible to see the parallels of issues from the time of writing (1926) until today.
This is a short book, but a dense and difficult read, especially since it guts America's favorite cultural brass ring- Democracy.
And I will get to it.Mencken's premise that civilizations would be better served by a monarchy over democracy will stir the bile of every American patriot.
Mencken, who never attended college (and claims he is the better for it) is accepted as one of America's great minds.
I wish he had been studied more in high school and college, but our culture has swept him under the rug.
I received a free copy of this book through Goodreads Firstreads.H.L. Mencken was always one of my father's favorite writers, but until now I'd never read his works.
Mencken clearly intended to shock and jar his audience, but in the post W era some of it leads to a sad 'so true' rather than outrage at the author.I'm going to be lending this one around, and expect to be referring to it for quotes and snark and perspective on the follies and foibles built into the structure of the country.
A man who can truly wield the English language; every word carefully chosen, every sentence constructed with care.
The problem with democracy has been clear since Aristotle, who knew the mob would rule society and politicians would become more adept in forming public opinions.
It has been clear now for decades the radical swings of public opinion, a pendulum of extremes.
Majority rule does not make any act, law, or belief correct.
Additionally, no one truly believes in democracy.
Democracy and freedom is often held with the same breadth, inseparable concepts.
Democracy and freedom thus are incompatible--individuals are ruled by the majority.
You could replace the names of the past politicians Mencken mentions with today's current crop and the book wouldn't miss a beat.Also, I found the last section very prescient, considering I finished it shortly after the Boston Marathon bombings: "I have spoken hitherto that democracy may be a self-limiting disease, like measles.
It is, perhaps, something more: it is self-devouring.
I need not point to what happens invariably in democratic states when the national safety is menaced.
into despots of an almost fabulous ferocity"."Invariably" is right.
As relevant today as it was when it was written.
This was my first exposure to Mencken and I don't know if this is the best place to start when reading hum, but I got a deal on the book that I couldn't pass up, so it is what I ended up reading first.
Mencken's essential argument here is that democracy sucks because people suck.
I will definitely keep this book in my collection for the insightful points that Mencken makes, but I wish he spent more time supporting those points and less time insulting the general public.
This treatment of the shortcomings of democracy is a major disappointment considering the source; Mencken is one of my favorite writers and is generally penetrating and often brilliant, and expresses himself inimitably (though many have tried to imitate him).
But this, despite its brevity-just over two hundred pages of VERY large type-is too long by at least two thirds.
I would like to know more about the history of the book; it reads as if Mencken was obligated to write it by contract or just needed money.If you've never read Mencken please do, but you can skip this book.
This book is a trenchant critique of the democratic system that existed in America in the 1920s. Mencken's insights are both humorous and scary, because plus ça change, plus c'est la même chose. The footnotes in this edition were very helpful to understand the context and many of the references to people and events of the time. The author doesn't purpose a cure for the malady that he diagnoses, but his observations are likely to provide a much deeper understanding to the student of politics or of the human experience.
Absolutely brilliant book. Not a novel, but I'd rank it next to Candide for its dark humor and skepticism of humanity.He points out the obvious, which is that man within a democracy spends much of his time trying to strip the liberty and happiness away from his fellow man; that a system of government supposedly designed and set up to give absolute liberty to each person living within it, is being constantly assailed by the very people it is mean to aid. Very witty. Very astute. Can't recommend it highly enough.
My ratings of books on Goodreads are solely a crude ranking of their utility to me, and not an evaluation of literary merit, entertainment value, social importance, humor, insightfulness, scientific accuracy, creative vigor, suspensefulness of plot, depth of characters, vitality of theme, excitement of climax, satisfaction of ending, or any other combination of dimensions of value which we are expected to boil down through some fabulous alchemy into a single digit.
I've just started reading the book and already I'm really enjoying it. Good thing I have a pencil and not a pen in my pocketbook so I can highlight parts I like.
Great book. Awesome guy. Reading this reminds you that democracy has ALWAYS been fundamentally broken, it's not a recent development.
Fun to read and food for thought. What's not to like about the Sage of Baltimore?
Notes on Democracy by H. L. Mencken (2008)
