https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1100375.Lost_on_a_Mountain_in_Maine
Donn gets cold and decides to find his own way back to camp rather than wait for the rest.
Donn's harrowing story, as told to Joseph Burke Egan, who was an author and I think a journalist, apparently was first published later in 1939 and has been a beloved family and school classic in Maine since that time.
Through the years, Fendler himself visited schools and libraries to share his experiences, and generations of Maine children have learned lessons about courage, faith, and will from Lost on a Mountain in Maine.
It's a good book. I don't remeber much, since I haven't read it in such a long time.
Personal ResponseThe book Lost on a Mountain in Maine by Donn Fendler was a great book.
I actually enjoyed this book because it was easy to read, short, and told a great story.
The men wanted to climb the biggest mountain in Maine.
When they started to climb the mountain it began to sleet and got really windy.
The main character Donn kept walking the trails of the mountain.
The story took place in 1940, so they didn’t have much for electronics to contact people when they get lost.Thematic ConnectionThe theme of this book is a little bit about how to survive on a mountain when people don’t have the resources they do at home to survive.
Some people like disaster stories, some like romance but for me what does it is a nice survival story.So this one takes a bunch of people out hiking - takes a kid (this is a true story about the author by the way) who leaves the summit of a mountain and misses the trail down - how does the kid survive?
What does he go through when he discovers he's lost?Good story - bad book.I just never got the feeling that he was in trouble, I got no insight into what he was really feeling.
I had picked it out of what showed up among OverDrive's currently-available Juvenile audiobooks because the boy has been somewhat fixated on survival stories this summer, since he got into Gordon Korman's "Island" survival series-- he picked the first one as his SRP prize, and gobbled up the others.
(I have been trying to get him into survival books in general, as they were a particular favorite of mine when I was young, for the last year or more, and Gordon Korman in particular over the last six months.
This cannot be pointed out, because the idea that Mom, a librarian and avid reader, could be right on this matter is blasphemous.) I enjoyed this on the drive, and my son *loves* it.
I thought this book was a pretty good book but there where some parts that I didn't get.
Like when he was going through the creek to get past the rocks but why didn't he jus walk the bank and not lose his shoes.
What was my favorite part is when one of the bears is walking to him and doesn't see or smell him because he was down wind.
Over all the book was good, there was some spots that I didn't quite get as much as others but it was a good book.
I hope to read many more books like this in the near future.Plot: Lost on a Mountain in Maine was an exciting book about a boys adventure of surviving on a mountain for over 8 days after losing sight of his father on the summit.
Donn, the boy, decided to make his way back to his dad and the mountain guide could catch up.
That is what happened to Donn but, he survived and left an inspiring story behind.Recommendation: I would recommend this book to almost anyone over the age of 10.
I think boys would like this book more because it is about the woods and survival.
The author survived in the wilderness at the age of 12 years old with nothing to eat or drink for nine days.Plot- Donn was a 12 year old boy who was lost in the wilderness for nine days without any supplies.
He was a fighting young boy who prayed to be saved everyday for hours.Setting- This book took place in Maine on Mount Katahdin in 1939.
When this story took place there was no technology like is available today, so when Donn got lost he had no way to call for help.
Donn's way of describing events was well detailed.
One can imagine the anguish of his parents--contemplating variouis fates for their son during his nine-day ordeal, during which time he endured loneliness, exhaustion and starvaiton (he lost 16 pounds!) During fog and even sleet he sought his way down the unforgiving slopes haphazardly, while rangers and hundreds of volunteers scoured the craggy heights of Katahdin.The lost youth was actually less at risk of freezing or fallngin to deep gorges once he descended below the welcome timbewrline.
Not the greatest read-aloud book, but worth the effort. Edit: hearing my eight-year old describing the story a month after we read it gave me a little more appreciation for the target audience.
In this book Donn Fendler writes about his amazing survival adventure on Mount Katahdin. It includes Suspense, Action, and mystery of whats going to happen next. Overall a good book but not my favorite. I recommend that every person that lives in Maine read this book.
I recently finished reading aloud Hatchet to two of my library classes, so this book caught my attention when I came across it incorrectly shelved in the fiction section of my library.
I was interested to see how this real-life story would compare to Hatchet, which feels very real.
I would have liked a bit more lead-in to the story.
I enjoyed reading the afterword, where this information was given in pretty nice detail.Overall, I found this to be a very interesting real-life story of a boy surviving on his own in the wilderness.
Ever wanted to read a book that feels like it was written by a young Captain America?
Donn Fendler was a 12-year-old Boy Scout who, as the title says, was lost on a mountain in Maine and found help 9 days later.
The book is written in Fendler's voice, as he told it to Joseph B.
So just imagine a 1939 12-year-old Boy Scout detailing his harrowing journey to you.When I was young I loved books about a kid surviving in the wilderness on their own: Hatchet, My Side of the Mountain, The Island Keeper, etc.
I don't think I minded it too much at the time, but now I can see the faults.The thing about this book is this: if I remember correctly, this kid is an absolute idiot.
Don't hike in bad weather.Check, it's foggy when he wanders off.2.
Always stay with another person while hiking.Or just wander ahead alone.
That way people can find you.If he had just stayed put, they would have found him in a day or two.Personally, I knew all of these things by age 12.Oh, and also: he FOUND A FREAKING TRAIL at one point.
And he was like, nah, I think I'll just keep going this way and see where it takes me.
I though this was a great book because it is a true story and Don is trying to survive on little food while finding his way back down the mountain. Don is very brave because he goes down the hardest trail all by himself. He is very brave and tough, i liked this book.
I read this book as a child and I have not forgotten it. This story traces the hardships and dire circumstances of a young boy who was lost during a camping trip in wild, unsettled territory in Maine.
.
In 1939, twelve year old Donn Fendler and other members of his family decided to climb to the top of Mount Katahdin, the highest peak in Maine.
When he finally made it back to civilization he was covered with insect bites and had lost sixteen pounds.Remembering his Boy Scout training, Donn found a stream and decided to follow it, hoping it would take him to a town.
This is a fascinating story of a young boy using his knowledge and ingenuity to survive for so long before he was finally rescued.
My 4th grade daughter brought this book home from school for her reading group.
She asked me to read a few chapters to her.
Then I read a couple of chapters to her and put her to bed.
I then went back and read the rest of the book.
It is about a boy who got lost on a hike and was missing for over a week.
Also while reading I kept thinking, "stay where you are!" As I was reading with my daughter we were able to discuss what was going on and what you should do if anything like this happened.
Lost on a Mountain in Maine by Donn Fendler is a true story about himself as a boy hiking up Mt. Katahdin.
He continues and when he realizes he’s lost, Donn is already too deep to find his way back.
He has amazing encounters and starts to go insane, but he somehow manages to keep a clear head.This wasn’t my favorite book, I much prefer fiction, but it was an incredible journey and I enjoyed reading it.
Donn is lost for 9 days!
Reading this book you get to relive his incredible journey lost on the mountain in Maine.
My sister was with a mom-friend, who said this was a good book.
My sister knows I love survival and adventure stories, recommends it to me, I order it immediately on Amazon.
For some reason, my sister forgot to mention this is a YA book, 82 pages long, written for ages 8-12 year olds, written in the 30's.
Well, a classic is a classic, and a book recommended is still a book to read ---it is a sweet story of survival, faith, endurance, Scouting and man in nature, as well as man vs.
so lost on a mountain in Maine was a huge disappointment.
I thought that maybe this book would have a reasonable ending but no, he had to make it back and return home.
Its so lackluster that it isn't even worth finishing to find out what happens.
you know that hes gonna die, but he doesn't.
The writer Donn Fendler couldn't have done a worse job at writing this stupid book.
But look on the bright side it was a good idea he just didn't execute it right.
he knew what he wanted in his mind he didn't do it right on paper.
I picked up this book on a whim because I thought my son might enjoy it (he's interested in Maine, the protagonist is about his age, his dad recently climbed a mountain in New Hampshire in a blizzard).
Really good, I think, for middle grade readers who want something short, accessible, and adventurous.
It's like Hatchet, but real.
The language is old-fashioned (the author's favorite expression is "Christmas!" which my son didn't understand at first, but now likes to say because he thinks it's funny), but the emotions still feel real.
And, the book includes some pictures as well as a map.
This book is about a twelve year named Donn Fendler who gets lost on Mt. Katahdin because of the fog now has to find his dad and camp.
Donn is struggling to survive with his peeling skin, no food and body getting weaker by the minute.
For two weeks Donn has to struggle to survive alone in the wilderness.
Scavenging for berries that he can rarely find.
Storms cross his path and without shoes and pants his chances of survival become slim.
I would definitely recommend this book to a friend
From a professional published book standpoint, it wasn't great, but as far a captivating story it was excellent. It is a true story in the words of the 12-year-old boy it happened to - and it sounds like a 12 year old boy is telling it. Although not a religious story, there were a lot of references to his praying throughout his ordeal - hope and faith are powerful things. I really enjoyed the book.
I enjoyed reading this book. It was written by someone other than the main character of the story, but it is written through the eyes of the lost boy. It's simple style and detailed account of what happen is fascinating. I've read some books about Maine wilderness, but this one taught me a few things. It is a story about survival, willpower to survive, determination, and faith in God. It has a happy ending and I would encourage teenagers and adults to read it.
Being from Maine, this was a book that all kids read in school, and when my daughter was assigned it for school, I thought I would read it again as an adult. Although the language is a bit old fashioned for today's standards and it is a bit simplistic for an adult reader, it is still worth reading. If you read it with the mindustry of a twelve year old, it is really written about right. I definitely recommend it.
"Lost on a mountain in Main" is probably one of the most interesting books I have ever read. This book made me feel scared, brave, and Intelligent; all of this happened with in the first few pages. This book is so addicting to read, if I want to read this book for 30 min I lose track of time and 2 hrs pass. One thing that I love about this book is the authors description on the mountain I would surly recommend this book, it's GREAT.
I read this with two of my kids and we continually marveled at his stamina and positive attitude in the face of so much adversity. I read about this book in "Dinner with the Smileys" and learned that it is required reading in Maine Public Schools. It's always fun to find new books to read through books.
When reading this true account one must understand that this account was the actual verbiage of a 12 year old boy in 1939 as told to Joseph Egan. This made it difficult to read at first, but as I became accustomed to his phrases and expressions, this awkwardness passed. This would be a great adventure book for all boys, including Scounts and those who enjoy the out of doors.
