https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/96255.The_Autobiography_of_an_Unknown_Indian
As the speaker continued describing London to his listeners, Nirad corrected him concerning the location of a particular street in London.
He became one.There are many admirers of Nirad, but he has also many critics.
V.S Naipaul, for instance, called him a fraud, a man with a big ego whose only subject was Nirad himself – someone who 'unexpectedly' wrote only one great book and then went on to become a clown who performed only to impress his audience.
Who knows this better than Naipaul that one does not write good books by chance.
not exactly an Everyman life in early 20th century India, Bengal and Calcutta, as the author is educated, professional, perceptive, and thorough in both his own history and that of his culture.
i do not know the current state of living, politics, culture, in India, but it is intriguing to see history, reverberations, from recent past.
i do not know about his varied portraits of Hindu, Muslim, city, village, work, leisure, ethics, prejudices, of his time, but again he does seem sincere...this is a long book.
he gives you his childhood, his education, his early career- but other aspects of his life are not much mentioned: wife, friends...
He courted controversy in the newly independent India in the dedication of the book itself which ran thus:“ To the memory of the British Empire in India,Which conferred subjecthood upon us,But withheld citizenship.To which yet every one of us threw out the challenge:"Civis Britannicus sum"Because all that was good and living within usWas made, shaped and quickenedBy the same British rule.”The dedication, which was actually a mock-imperial rhetoric, infuriated many Indians, particularly the political and bureaucratic establishment.
The book's dedication, he said "was an imitation of what Cicero said about the conduct of Verres, a Roman proconsul of Sicily who oppressed Sicilian Roman citizens, although in their desperation they cried out: "Civis Romanus Sum".per Wikipedia:# Although he was highly critical of the post-independence Congress party establishment, he was more sympathetic to the right-wing Hindu nationalist movement in India.
This voluminous presentation by Nirad Babu is much more than his autobiography.
The book leaves the reader in no doubt about the levels of erudition that the author had achieved and his command over the English language.
First half of the book deals with his personal life and is the more difficult part from reader's perspective.
There is no doubt that he is forthright and blunt about whatever he has to say be it his understanding of nationalism or even what Gandhi was doing to the national movement.
The book ultimately attempts to provide an understanding of Indian history giving it a new twist altogether.
Possibly a great book and a wonderful chronicle of the times, but do consider beforehand Chaudhuri's cringe-worthy dedication to the British Empire in India:To the memory of the British Empire in India,Which conferred subjecthood on us,but withheld citizenship.To which yet every one of us threw out the challenge:‘Civis Britannicus sum’Because all that was good and living within uswas made, shaped and quickenedby the same British rule.
Poverty, isn't then merely a lack of resources - it is a far deeper problem.Why Chaudhuri's book is still relevant - is the way he describes the Indian enjoyment in decimation of their own culture while creating this distance from natives.
Chaudhuri eloquently describes an unrequited love for British institutions, but he also describes how this love is limited by the petty racism in the empire.Even to this day, a Savarkar-style utilitarian withdrawal from the material aspects of Indian culture and a revenge-seeking politics that emanates from it - are at the heart of Indian nationalism.
The text was overdone and went off on tangents a lot (I sensed Chaudhuri had spare time on his hands to re-write large portions of his work – this did more harm than any good).A few quotes I really enjoyed:It is only the exceptional man, the genius and the creator, who brings something of his own which can be distinguished from the common legacy.He that commits repeated sins, even the Ganges makes not pure.A system is only worth as much as the men who work it.The true university of these days is a collection of books.Nothing great was ever achieved by cleverness.The great paradox in this hostility of the general mass of Indians towards the things of the West is that nearly all our great men of the nineteenth century were not able to gain any recognition from their countrymen nor exert any influence over them until they were recognised in the West...Tagore was looked upon almost as an illiterate person before he received the Nobel Prize.I dislike giving scores of 3, but I think that is what this book deserves.
Wonderful account of growing up in mid 20th century India, from the dynamics of family life in rural villages to the political dynamics during the time of Gandhi. The first half, concerning childhood, was especially entertaining for me, and I happily soaked up every little detail about a family life that differed so much from my own.
Chaudhuri's Autobiography of an Unknown Indian covers the author's years from his birth in 1897 to 1947.
Ramchandra Guha rated this as one of the best autobiographies by an Indian.
Chaudhuri describes his own life , growing up in Kishoreganj, now in Bangladesh, to his life as a student in Calcutta and then as a young man.
Side by side he describes his growing political and cultural growth and how he became a scholar.
I cannot imagine how anyone read this book in the pre-Google days.
Men of letters who met Nirad Chaudhuri, such as Khushwant Singh and Ramchandra Guha, came away in the awe of his scholarship.
Scholarly but not balanced on controversial topics but a should read This voluminous autobiography of Nirad Chaudhuri runs to 600+ pages on a book size that is larger than a pocket book. It is characterized by the author's keen sense of observation, with indication in every page, of his erudition especially in English literature, so much so that sometimes it becomes difficult for the lay reader to grasp the full purport of his account without the reader's own ability to appreciate the generous

Very rare that I don't finish a book -- perhaps 10 times in 30 years; I now know much about growing up in Bengal (now Bangladesh) at turn of 20th century, but other than that I couldn't muster interest for this chronicle of his life/study of his people and their theologies.
Word choice is often odd to me, and it's old enough that I'm sure much has changed - and since I'm not bent on getting into Indian life of the last 50 years or so, which would help me understand what's transpired since this book's writing, there was little keeping me attached to finishing it.
This is a Magnum opus in the real sense, I wish i had any other word to convey the meaning.
It isnt exactly his story but a story of his surroundings also.
A brutally honest in your face book.I say that anyone who loves his country will have the balls to write about her fallacies which Nirad has done.
Tit bits like how sarojini naidu refused to give back the costly pen, that she signed an autograph.
Good english which we will never use, so please use a dictionary when you read the book.
1000 pages and can't write more.
read it.
read it.
Nirad Chaudhari clearaly has great behavioural insight. Although he gives some form of historical perspective most of the book revolves around the author's young life and how his surroundings affected his views and thoughts. It's indeed a fascinating read if you're interested in the social and political stratum around early 20th century. Here's my favorite quote from this book "I understood the life around me better, not from love, which everybody acknowledges to be a great teacher, but from estrangement, to which nobody has attributed the power of reinforcing insight"
Personal history mixed with the history of India. What opulence!
Even at the time of reading it, I felt vividly that this book was to put an indelible mark on my mind.
I know that the time has not yet come for our fellow countrymen to see through the facades of myths surrounding themselves, but I have somewhat found a personal catharsis in the fact that there has been at least someone like the writer who could break the shackles of that diseased unconsciousness.So, how long will it take to finally recongnize and understand the greatest minds we have ever had?

Every Bengali needs to Read at this book.
More on the political side, but really discuses the history of India quite well, three genres of old tradition to the more modern ara of how India (mainly Calcutta) has established throughout the years. Not much of an autobiography of a man, but more on the country itself. Good for a text book
A remarkable book.
His voracious criticism of the national movement from 1905, the English in India and life in Calcutta and his views on Indian nationalism and history can interest people as well as enrage less liberal minds.
His essay written during his academic years on the need for objectivity in studying history has lessons for contemporary India where people tend to confuse between myth and history.
But pages falling off and lower quality of binding in a brand new book can't be tolerated when an esteemed publisher like Jaico Publishing House(India) is concerned !
The book is just about bearable in the first half (40% to be precise).
I was recommended this book because of the book covering the unfolding of the Indian National Movement from a common man's perspective.
In this regard the book really picks up pace in the second half.
Where the background is sightly more urban (Kolkata) for my taste and the national movement's effect on the common man.The book covers the Bengali revolutionary movement very well, though spoils some part of the narration with an overdose of European war and political history.

A must read book. Nirad Choudhry is politically incorrect and turns some people off, but he is a master writer, he is hugely intelligent, he is very observant and he is terrifyingly honest, about himself and about everyone else. I just started reading this book again, and I am liking it much more than when i first read it as a young man. I guess Nirad Choudhry has not changed, but I have. A little.
This book was strong and interesting when the author stuck to the promise of the title: "Autobiography". Unfortunately he used the last quarter of the book, plus parts of the rest, to explain Indian history, expound his viewpoints, and analyze Bengali society of the time he was writing (late 1940s). Some of this would have been fine--it's just that there was too much. I couldn't finish it, though I had enjoyed the first parts.
This book should probably be renamed as 'The Autobiography of a arrogant Bengali'. This book starts out beautifully with the spot on description of a Indian village. After that it doesnt live up to it expectations at all. The author rambles on and on and what surprises you is how the authors 'India' is consistently restricted only to Bengal.
The quality of writing is superb. Nirad C. Chaudhuri style reminds me of the English of India's founding fathers. His grasp on the language is unwavering.That said, I couldn't finish the book. The first half was quite interesting but my desire to go on petered out somewhere after the middle.
This book tells us about the culture of our ancestors in India and history of different kind of situations occurred during the British India times. more over, the narration is quiet different in this book and this book will be the best book for authors reading.
It took me one year to finish this.description of his early life is excellent.later it dragged a bit .reading was tedious as I had to take help of dictionary but his flow of writing and first hand account of events was mesmerising.
Fantastic.
A delight to read, this book offers insight into the everyday lives of South Asians disrupted by the 1947 partitioning of India.
