https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/146104.The_Seven_Crystal_Balls
The story was serialised daily in Le Soir, Belgium's leading francophone newspaper, from December 1943 amidst the German occupation of Belgium during World War II.
The story was cancelled abruptly following the Allied liberation in September 1944, when Hergé was accused of collaborating with the occupying Germans and banned from working.
After he was cleared two years later, the story was then serialised weekly in the new Tintin magazine from September 1946 to April 1948.
در همین میان پروفسور تورنسل نیز به جرم در دست انداختن دستبند راسکار کاپاک دزدیده شده و به آمریکای جنوبی برده می‌شود… ا.
Hergé est sans doute l'ambassadeur culturelle du genie francais qui a eu le plus de success au cours du dernier siècle.Heureuse le siècle actuelle commence tres bien avec un tres beaux releve dans le domaine de la bande-dessinée française. Entre autres, il faut signaler Julie Maroh (Le bleu est une couleur chaude) et Marjane Satrapis (Persepolis)
تن تن ماجراجو بازمیگردد! اینبار با داستانی به همان جذابیت "راز کشتی اسب شاخ دار" و "گنج راکهام سرخپوش" و به همین سبک و سیاق در دو قسمت جدا. یکی "هفت گوی بلوری" که در ماجراهای آن پروفسور کلکولس نازنین ربوده میشود و ادامه ش در "زندانی های معبد خورشید"
I love how Captain Haddock is trying to be a gentleman in this book with his monocle.
خــــــب! این یکی واقعا خوب بود ^___^
He noted that the Hergé's drawing was extremely precise (the famous "ligne claire"), except the head of Tintin.
But I do not identify myself in Tintin.
My hero of cartoon is a true romantic hero: Corto Maltese.
Pratt was influenced by the American comics, and especially Milton Caniff.
The drawing is done with brush, we are far from the "ligne claire".
I saw the drawings of his first album 'Salted sea balad".
In the secrête courses of this enigmatic city, you will seek the clavicle of Solomon (Pratt was franc-maçon).
Corto Maltese will give you the significance of each letter of Hebrew alphabet.
This is more interesting episode than many other of the series!! The plot begins very interestingly and gets tightened as it progresses!! No need to mention that tin tin is always a page turner and this is no exception!! U will get ur eyes glued to the book til u complete!!I always wish I have a dog like snowy!! And this episode strengthens it!!A wonderful detective in tin tin can be seen in this episode!!
Kuifjes nachtmerrie waarin Raskar Kapak door het raam naar binnen sluipt, brengt oerangsten uit mijn kindertijd naar boven. Heerlijk mysterieus. Eigenlijk is 'De zeven kristallen bollen' een lange inleiding op het beste album van Kuifje.
Ah, the story line is one of the best so far, well balanced, neat & nearly perfect O:)Hergé got better in creating a sense of surprise & suspense in between two different frames :D Cannot help looking forward to the next story!
The beginnings of these stories have been around as long as the Lord of the Rings, the illustration and environments in the Tintin books are accurate and extremely detailed.
Anyone who has spent even a little time exploring Herge (Georges Remi) can see the painstaking research and adversity he worked through to compose the world around Tintin.
His ideas were ahead of his time (Exploring the moon, Industrialization, South American political conflict, modern slave trade, extraterrestrial life) and he made certain every detail for every object would be realistic (after the third book at least).
Herge's work can certainly be cited as an influence for any modern day graphic novel or comic book.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
I loved the thrill and mystery of this one. ^_^
Hergé begins another adventure, The Crab with the Golden Claws, which he publishes in Le Soir, one of the only newspapers authorised during the German occupation.1942Casterman Publishing House, are planning to publish standardised books containing 64 pages in full colour, asks Hergé to start adapting previous episodes to fit these new guidelines.1944The liberation of Belgium on September 3 ends the publication of the Adventures of Tintin in Le Soir.
Some consider that by publishing in a newspaper controlled by the German occupation, Hergé has in fact "collaborated" with it.1945He continues the crucial work on his first books.
أستاذ برجل اتخطف
This was the first Tintin book I ever read, and I was instantly hooked.
They have a very Indiana Jones feel to them (though I guess I should say the Indiana Jones movies have a very Tintin feel to them because Tintin was first).
I love all the characters, and Snowy is just the cutest.
Thompson and Thomson are the perfect straight men, and I love Captain Haddock’s creative name calling.
It’s also really interesting to see Tintin piece the crime together.
I also like seeing cameos from other characters in this one, especially Bianca Castafiore.
I read this book in Agra, India. My parents were buying gods-know-what and I was reading this Tintin book. I know this detail means nothing but for some unknown reasons I want to remember it.OK! I've always been kind of hursh towards Tintin books, I know. But this one was great and I loved it! Can't wait for the next book! + I hope Tournesel is fine! Little poor cute thing!!
#46 for 2018Genre: Children Comic
La momie inca fait toujours autant flipper ! ^^Un bon tome, l'histoire est vraiment intrigante et c'est sympa de voir des personnages croisés dans des tomes précédents.
Les 7 boules de cristal is about an expedition party that arrives from Peru after finding a Incan mommy. The members of the expedition get sick and the fall into a coma kind of sleep. Tintin gets involved in this adventure. As always I have to point the drawings out... Really beautiful. The story is kind of different from later Tintin comic books because magic and curses were involved in its pages. Plot was really interesting and the twist a the end of the books was refreshing, this twist would later become the main plot for the next Tintin issue.
Another super exciting Tintin adventure! Plenty of intrigue here and the mystery does not stop as I now must track down a copy of the Prisoners of the Sun!I won't spoil the plots - just grab a copy and enjoy....
Intriguing, fast-paced story about an Inca mummy. We meet again with old friends like general Alcazar and Bianca Castafiori, and Quick and Flupke make a guest appearance. Captain Haddock is as funny as ever.Written during WWII, when Le Soir was managed by the Germans. Hergé has always countered accusations of collaboration.Rascar Capac is apparently inspired by a pre-colombian mummy which can be visited in the Musées royaux d'Art et d'Histoire in Brussels. (http://www.koregos.org/fr/sergio-puri...)
Anyone who grew up with the animated TV series will probably recall this one in great detail, as there is so much good material here: particularly notable is the agonising wait in Tarragon's manor, and the marvelous frame of the seven victims waking up on cue in their hospital beds, and screaming.Although Herge was remaining stoically apolitical, his series had acquired a wealth of recurring characters to enrich the story, and many of them - Thompson & Thomson, Bianca Castafiore, Nestor, General Alcazar, as well as the newcomer Cuthbert Calculus - appear here.
There DOES seem to be something supernatural going on (that cover image is a literal scene from the book), but there's also a mysterious Incan descendant runing around (not to mention Colonel Alcazar, who seems to serve no useful plot function), so we have to wait until the next volume--Prisoners of the Sun (which I've read already)--to find out.
I confess that, much as I like Tintin, I find these two-book adventures a bit irritating.
The first volumes never satisfy, really, especially because I find myself chafing at the space devoted to slapstick gags (at least one every two or three pages) rather than to plot advancement.
This volume of Tintin is part one of two, and follows the story of the Captain fresh from buying Marlinspike Hall.
If, in your adulthood, you ever wonder about the asexual tone of Tintin, you can't help but look at the relationship between the Captain and Calculus as being a mix of the odd couple and completely gay.
I'm just saying that the way that the Captain gets so worked up about Calculus (a man he couldn't stand two volumes ago) seems so overly dramatic.
And Calculus holds his pendulum with his pinky pointing out, he looks down modestly and accessorizes with a bracelet in his distinctly effeminate way.
Herge’s adventures of Tintin were a boyhood staple in my reading habits.
I returned to “The Seven Crystal Balls” with some trepidation, wondering if they would live up to the good memories.
This graphic novel starts when an archaeological expedition return from South America, carrying an Inca mummy.
All the regular characters appear, with the Thompson twins, Captain Haddock, General Alcazar, opera singer Bianca Castafiore and, of course Snowy the dog.The plot moves quickly, inter-spaced with humorous incidents.
These often involve the Captain getting into scrapes or Snowy causing chaos.
The Tintin series will still appeal to young readers, especially boys, keen to read about adventures and mysterious events.
Classic middle period Tintin.
What's not to like?Although an expositonal volume for its sequel, Prisoners of the Sun, I actually prefer this story.
I liked the hale and hearty Tarragon, and think it's a shame we don't see him after this adventure.
Snowy is also in fine fettle in this story, still a cynical wisecracker (I always found his demotion in later books a pity).In fact, if you want an album to introduce you to the best the series has to offer, I strongly recommend this.
I can think of no higher praise.

It's been a while since my last Tintin adventure, but it seems The Seven Crystal Balls was definitely a good choice especially in terms of reminding me why I like Tintin so much. This book actually ends just as you hit the climax of the adventure, and it continues on with the next book in the series, Prisoners of the Sun. I recommend having a few Tintin adventures on your desk at work; as I've found out recently, reading one of these adventures is a great way to de-stress in a short amount of time.
The first part of another mystery, The Seven Crystal Balls has that vintage Tintin, Snowy, and Captain Haddock, but also funny yet wholly irrelevant dimwittedness from the Thompson twins.A sinister air of enigma permeates the whole story as a group of explorers that recovered an Inca mummy are each stricken with an inexplicable coma. Add to that, Professor Calculus disappears. The trails then leads to Peru, and the next book, The Prisoners of the Sun.
I have been a Tintin reader since it was a child. For close to 50 years I have read and re-read the whole collection of Tintin books so many times that I couldn't keep count. The Seven Crystal Balls is my favourite followed closely by Prisoners of the Sun. How could anyone not love these books. My 26 year old son and my 90 year old father also loves them.
