https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29283884-the-gentleman-s-guide-to-vice-and-virtue
“I don’t think it’s a good idea to go courting trouble, is all.”“We’re not courting trouble,” I say. “Flirting with it, at most.” I honest to god wish this book would take human form and come fall in love with me.I love this book with all my usually empty 7 hearts that just inflated 6 sizes and I think my ribs might actually crack. This book was so pure it wasn’t made for earth. This was the best thing that’s happened to humanity since sliced bread. This was better than shaking hands with dumbl
In fact, I am very disappointed in you✨ Percy Newton—actual ray of sunshine and the embodiment of every moment anyone has looked at the sunset and had a Moment thinking about how lucky they are to witness the beauty of nature✨ I can’t back this up with science but I’m sure Percy can harness the sun's warmth and power and bring harmony to human relations and begin an age of peace✨ he’s of a good heart and I love him so much I wish I could wrap him in blankets and hold his hand and do that little thumb rubby thingy I just hope he's content!✨ the kind of OTP that will occupy a very large % of your thoughts ✨ thank you for blinding me with your love ...I might have lost my vision but now I Understand ✨ no seriously, if you're interested in seeing me have a complete breakdown, just give me an otp where person A spends 90% of their productive time looking at person B with softness and wonder while person B is completely unaware....
As we sail across the Channel toward Calais, this is what I’m thinking of—Percy and me and England sinking into the sea behind us, and also French lads and their tight breeches and, zounds, I can’t wait to get to Paris. I am also maybe a tiny bit drunk. This book is wonderful! Just so so much fun. It's light, it's silly, and I just couldn't stop giggling to myself from start to finish. It reminds me of My Lady Jane, but with lots of gay love and drunken shenanigans.Henry Montague, or "Monty" to
As we sail across the Channel toward Calais, this is what I’m thinking of—Percy and me and England sinking into the sea behind us, and also French lads and their tight breeches and, zounds, I can’t wait to get to Paris.
He had initially planned a trip full of drink, love affairs, and merriment, but his father is trying to ruin his plans by sending Mr Lockwood to watch over him and put a stop to any scandalous behaviour.
So, of course, Monty being Monty, the trip is full of drink, love affairs, and merriment.
4.25 So much fun!
IDK sounds kinda dumb.
4.5 stars! Really liked this one! It was fun and hilarious and romantic and I didn't want it to end! Monty's voice had me completely hooked from the beginning--I enjoyed his character so much, and I loved how he grew over the course of the book. I did feel that some aspects of the plot were a bit shaky, but if you can suspend your disbelief a little and just go with it, it is such a fun ride and I would definitely recommend it!
I'm just going to do a smol review now and come back and re-read and shout at you more on release day!!But just know: it is 5000% PERFECTION and one of the best books of life.
I went in expecting a cutesy YA m/m romance novel set in the 1700s, but it was so much more!
This novel is full of action, adventure, feminism, a sassy narrator, high stakes, (AND a cutest m/m romance).I loved all the main characters - they are a terrific trio.
The super comedic relief and the high-intensity action makes it entirely different from most historical YA novels I've read in the past.
I would highly recommend this novel to anyone looking for a new novel with gay/bisexual characters, setting in 18th century Europe, intense action, and hysterical writing.
“Are you going to give me the fornication without the intention of procreation is of the devil and a crime lecture? I believe I could recite it from memory by now.”“Monty-”“Perhaps I am trying to procreate with all these lads and I’m just very misinformed about the whole process. If only Eton hadn’t thrown me out.”  Wow, so I expected cute and amusing, but I did not expect to find both the funniest thing I've ever read, and also one of the most unfortunately-personally-relevant-to-me things I
It's fantastically paced, especially for such a long book - I mean, it broke my reading slump.
Just because people are survivors of abuse or trauma doesn't mean we always need to be in a world of angst.Secondly - I feel like such a pretentious asshole - I love the themes here about not needing to be cured to be an important person.
People like us have always existed; we just don't get books, especially historical fiction.
Like, someone tell me why this book invented romance and being in love.
It's adorable and hilarious and important and I had so much fun reading it.
4.5*This was so fun and cute! So much love!!!
4.5/5
4.6/5 Stars ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐“We are not broken things, neither of us. We are cracked pottery mended with laquer and flakes of gold, whole as we are, complete unto each other. Complete and worthy and so very loved.”I underestimated this book immensely. I thought it would be a light-hearted, fluffy, cute, funny and romantic gay love story set in the 18th century England but it was so much more than that. It was deep, it was heart wrenching, it was profound, it was adventurous, it was emotional, it was so
But when one of Monty’s reckless decisions turns their trip abroad into a harrowing manhunt that spans across Europe, it calls into question everything he knows, including his relationship with the boy he adores.I read this book in 3 sittings which doesn't happen too often for me.
I like books with quick pace that don't let me get bored by them and leave them down for another time.
Monty, a rich privileged rake, a fuck-everyone-and-everything-that-walks-on-this-earth bugger, a weak selfish and dramatic bitch who makes the worst and also the best decisions at the same time.
XD)Well anyway, what I’m actually trying to tell you is that I loved this book!!!I adored the characters and I really liked the fact that it turned out to be some huge adventure!
I loved how much Monty crushed on Percy and to read his thoughts was so funny, heart-breaking, adorable, delightful and I don’t even know what else!
Monty, Percy and Felicity are my new golden trio.PS. Also, Felicity is GOALS. I love her and I want to be like her when I grow up. Seriously, one of my favorite female characters ever.
I was in love with Felicity, Monty, and Percy before the second chapter even ended and only grew to like them more as the story progressed.
It clearly reflects the value of friendship and how much it means to every single one of us to always have a friend to laugh with, to have fun with, to lean on, to confide in, to go so crazy with to the point where anyone else would put the both of you in a mental hospital, no matter what comes your way.The book deals with a lot of issues in the 18th century society such as racism and sexism.
4.5 stars Boys fighting pirates and their feelings for each other in 18th century Paris and Venice!
*swoon*We hosted the official cover reveal this morning, accompanied by an early ARC giveaway and the MOST ADORABLE video by the author talking about why she wrote the book.
Oh, and there are pirates and villains and a swoonworthy romance, too!http://www.themidnightgarden.net/2016...PLEASE read the amazing excerpt on that post if you're considering the book.
As Mackenzi says, this is the big gay 18th century road trip novel you didn't know you wanted!Also, I loved the book enough to write a blurb for the ARC.
:) Here's a sneak peek: https://www.instagram.com/p/BK7MhzCAHER/
2.75/5 stars  “God bless the book people for their boundless knowledge absorbed from having words instead of friends.” I thought I was the biggest disappointment in life, but I guess I’ve been proven wrong with my reading choices lately.
(view spoiler)[Like I understand why you'd assume Monty stole this thing, but it was stolen at a party.
I actually considered giving this book four stars up until about page 350ish, even though I was struggling to even finish, just because I was going to do whatever I could to avoid disappointment again, but then even more raisins were added to the mix.
“If you go behind my back, I swear to God, I’ll skin you alive—”“I won’t—”“—murder you, then alchemically raise you from the dead so I can murder you again—” TRIGGER WARNINGS FOR: homophobia, epilepsy, racism and racial slurs, ableism, PTSD, alcoholism, parental abuse, BUT SPEAKING OF 2017 LIFESAVERS This book is a strong contender because it was really, really good and bought up so many important themes and issues and was also just really fun, adventurous, different from the usual and had ...
So for those of you who don't know this is a book set in the 18th Century (NOT: During the Victorian era for anyone confused like ME) and follows three main character - Henry Montague (Monty), his best friend Percy, and Felicity Montague (Henry's little sister) Percy and Henry are taking "The Tour" (18th Century Gap Year) across "The Continent" - Henry's father hopes the year will settle him done, and that after the tour he will return ready to take control of his fathers estate.
He is going to enjoy this trip to the fullest, drink some more wine, roam the streets with his childhood friend Percy, and fool around with the prettiest of the prettiest.Before the journey can start however, all of his plans come to an end: a Guardian will be there to watch over them and make sure Henry behaves, otherwise he shall not return to England at all, and be stripped of all the priviliges his father's money and position gave him.With a huge crush on Percy, his seemingly narrow-minded sister Felicity and the more than obnoxious guardian, he sulkingly sets out on an adventure, he couldn't have imagined in his wildest dreams.Characters:Henry/Monty is the cliché jock: handsome, rich, cheeky and arrogant.
This is not a book I was interested in reading, but since it came in my Owlcrate box I will give it a try.
The Owlcrate stuff was awesome though ♥I was right.
It wasn't for me.
There are some parts that I enjoyed but for the most part, it wasn't for me.
But, I didn't pick this book to read, Owlcrate did it for me 😄I did like Felicity's character because she fought against being the woman they were supposed to be back then.
Go Felicity!
I'm happy for the majority of people that loved the book ❤️
There’s such character growth and development present in his story, and by the end, I was amazed at how far he had come.•	Percy, Monty’s best friend and our resident love interest.
He’s so precious, kindhearted, and loving, and my heart broke for him every time anyone had a cruel word to say about his dark skin and biracial blood.•	Felicity Montague: Monty’s little sister, who joins them on their Tour.
I won't spoil anything, but at the end of the exchange, Monty essentially asks for an apology/thank-you, and Scipio wrecks the White Savior Complex before it can even begin:“There is nothing good about watching another man claim your ship because your skin is too dark to do it yourself," he says, each word a glancing wound.
me, sobbing in a public bathroom: you bastards told me this book was funny
4.5 ⭐ The more times you read it the better it gets. Yet another FANTASTIC re read. Monty, my roguish booze-hound seductive charmer, oh, how I love thee!!! ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ORIGINAL REVIEWI think I ended this book with a migraine because I was grinning and laughing like an idiot the whole way through that it slowly took its toll on my brain. ABSOLUTELY WORTH IT!WONDERFUL. Just wonderful! So delightfully heartwarming and hilarious. The Gentleman’s Guide follows our main lead Mont
✨ Monty: A hilarious (sensing a theme here?), fun-loving Bi-sexual British lord in love with his best friend, Percy.
Percy, having to deal with racial discrimination, Felicity not being able to do what she really wants, as opposed to what society dictates she must do, Monty-though clueless at the start and somewhat shallow, slowly having to confront his privileges over these two people that he loves in terms of their social standing as well as having to confront his own issues and realising certain things about himself and his growth over the course of the book was all beautifully written.And the romance!
4.5 StarsRe-read:Bumping my rating up because I forgot how great the discussion of chronic illness is here. Honestly some of the best representation I've seen. "It isn’t easy and it isn’t very enjoyable but this is what I’ve got to live with. This is who I am, and I don’t think I’m insane. I don’t think I should be locked up and I don’t think I need to be cured of it for my life to be good."  Otherwise I pretty much stand by my original review:----------------- 4 StarsOriginal Review:   “I swear
Monty sets off on his coming-of-age tour of Europe with his sister (Felicity) and his best friend (Percy).
Like in one scene we have Monty calling a horse a leggy sausage then the next we have someone discussing the ramifications of chronic illness.
But despite matching their characters and the time-period, everything they discuss feels so relevant.
Not only does the writing reflect the voice very well, but it accurately sets the historical tone without coming across dry or boring.
I think I expected a little more for Monty's character development?
In Conclusion Really fun, LGBT-themed, historical adventure.
4.5 stars - audiobook
*heart eyes**chants* MERCY!
The characters and their development is what kept me reading and the story going.I WAS JUST FEELING MEH ABOUT IT BECAUSE I WANTED MORE MONTY AND PERCY INTERACTION AND CONVERSATIONS AND JUST MORE AND MORE OF THEM TWO!Gosh, I don't even know what the fuck I am saying anymore.
But read this book for the LGBTQ characters, for the underlying, important themes floating throughout the story, such as the damaging consequences abuse can have on the victim's psyche, racism, the issues surrounding sexuality and misogyny.
goodness me, that was quite the ride!
i had no idea this was historical fiction, so i went into this totally expecting ‘lads on tour’ but instead got ‘the journey of the century.’ and i completely underestimated how great this book would be - while it gave me fun summer road trip among friends vibes, it was so much more than that.
i actually felt like i learnt a lot whilst reading this, and it also had some really deep and touching moments.
the adventure, the romance, the wonderful cities and places - i just really enjoyed it all.
4.5 stars
Update: still a delight.Well, that was a fucking delight and a half.
Rating: 4.5 stars
Just when you think that no one is writing anything original, along comes a book that is so different in many ways that you wonder how the author came up with the idea in the first place, and how they were able to sell it to a publisher. Mackenzi Lee's  The Gentleman's Guide to Vice and Virtue  is one of those books. What a sensational story, with characters I won't soon forget!In 18th century England, Henry "Monty" Montague has grown up a son of privilege. His father is a lord with a sizable es
I'm well shackled to my father, no way to escape or want things for myself."While at first his father's restrictions put a damper on the Grand Tour, it's not long before Monty and Percy begin to sneak away and enjoy themselves, under the watchful and jealous eye of Monty's younger sister, Felicity, who is supposed to be dropped off at finishing school along the way, despite her desire to pursue an educational and career path open only to men in those days."It occurs to me then that perhaps getting my little sister drunk and explaining why I screw boys is not the most responsible move on my part."The more time Monty and Percy spend together, the more he wants to divulge his feelings for his best friend, despite his father's warnings.
there's nothing like your most anticipated read of the year actually coming up to your expectationsThis book singlehandedly saved 2017 pass it on “The stars dust gold leafing on his skin. And we are looking at each other, just looking, and I swear there are whole lifetimes lived in those small, shared moments.”  I'm declaring Monty and Percy's official ship name to be #mercy because lord have mERCY ON MY SOULwhere to begin.............where to begin.......Plot:This book is basically about Two Gu
so much yesGetting The Lady's Guide to Petticoats and Piracy feels like the Ultimate Blessing and I can't thank the universe and especially Mackenzi Lee enough for giving me a reason to live until 2018 so she can save my sorry ass once againanyways i've been waiting for this "men are such babies" slytherclaw-ass lady all my life and i'm so glad she's the glue holding this glorious trio togetheralso, her relationship with Monty is 900% me and my brother (except we don't have as many issues) and I'm not gonna lie, all their sibling moments warmed my black hole inside my chest a little
