https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59097.Dear_and_Glorious_Physician
He has heard rumors of a man named Yeshua in Judaea.With all his Roman enemies dead, Lucanus returns to the Eternal City, where he meets again with his darling Sara, who is dying of tuberculosis (if memory serves).
Some of the best were the sickening slave market scene sequence in Antioch, Julia’s orgy in Rome—where Caldwell so well describes Lucanus’ drunken stupor that my own vision started to blur, and the last quiet tableaux, where Luke is both awed by Mary and reminded of his own mother.Content AdvisoryPlease note: just because this is Christian fiction doesn’t mean it’s squeaky clean.Violence: lots of off-page, unseen, murders and rapes.
This is NOT a kids book BTW!
The story stuck in my sub-conscience & when I joined The International Order of St Luke I remembered it & decided to re-read it.
The author read extensively about St Luke before she wrote this book & there is a nifty bibliography in the back.
The story suffers from the lack of modern biblical scholarship but is a wonderful read none the less.The part where a centurion relates what it was like for him at the crucifixion was very moving.An oldy but a goody!
The plotting in this novel is leisurely by postmodern standards, and Taylor Caldwell's prose sometimes veers toward purple, with each Antiochan, Alexandrian, and Roman sunset seemingly more beautiful than the one before it, and scented gardens hosting conversations between principal characters.
Its confident portrayal of first-century life and politics in the Roman Empire notes sights, sounds, and smells throughout.
Caldwell's affection for Saint Luke is palpable, but the hagiography here rises above the merely sentimental to become memorable.
Like any good doctor, even in "primitive" times, Luke is no mere pill-pusher.
This is probably the best book I have ever read.
It is incredibly humbling to read.
My favorite part is reading of Luke's childhood.
His innocent devotion to God convicts and exhorts us to do the same.
This book changed the way I viewed God and the way I relate to him.
Taylor Caldwell can just flat out write.
Her sentences are packed with imagery.
Each word is measured for maximum power.
Intelligent?
Why yes she is.
This fact smacks you in the face.
I had to look up much of the Greek mythological references and some of her vocabulary as well.
Give the book a read.
This was a great way to understand the time Christ lived in (the Bible being the best of course, Then Jesus the Christ by James Talmage) through characters that crossed his path, Christ is not the main character in this novel but is the main point of this novel. It is a wonderful journey I did feel a gained a bit of insight into that time, a greater appreciation of what was involved with those early saints and humble followers of Christ and what they went through with so many different cultures coming together to have a belief in Christ.
Una historia como la de San Lucas merece el tiempo, cuidado y la dulzura que Taylor Caldwell le dio a cada capítulo en honor a los cerca de cuarenta años que tardó en escribirlo.
También fui capaz de sentir, aunque fuera por unos instantes, la belleza del mundo y la paz que el mensaje de Cristo trató de mandar a todas las naciones no obstante la arrogancia, egoísmo y brutalidad de los hombres que se encargarían de cumplir con la misión.
Médico de Cuerpos y Almas no es una lectura sencilla, es un libro que debe ser tomado en el momento preciso y cuando el hambre de esperanza embarga el espíritu del lector.
She covers the basic facts of the life of St Luke...born a Greek - Lucanus...
The result is a detailed, imaginative and absorbing portrait of Luke's background, his love story, his suffering, his travels and interesting details about what in those days was known as 'The White Sickness' I found this book to be a most powerful read many years ago and have had deep satisfaction in reading it once more so many years later....exciting, extremely interesting, immensely moving and for me personally unforgettable.
And several hundred years after that before measurements were applied specifically to blood pressure, and even longer before the medical profession began to understand the impact of blood pressure on health.A related irritation - some years after the book was published, I took am introductory college class in cultural anthropology, which concentrated on how the physical and social environment affect the way people think.
The plot was good, I think, but I was too troubled by those irritating details to fully appreciate it.The book is due back at the library soon, and I have no impulse to reread it, nor to read anything else by this author.
Thanks to a recommendation by BYU football coach, Bronco Mendenhall by way of his mother, I chose to break that particular drought in my literary experience by reading this story about Luke of New Testament fame.
The remaining quarter of the novel focuses on Luke’s writing of his contribution to the New Testament through interviews with factual (think James, John and Mary, His mother) as well as fictional first hand witnesses to the life and death of Jesus Christ.
This creation gives you a great deal of detailed information about the Roman empire and it’s influence on the world at that time.
This novel tells the story of St. Luke, called herein Lucanus, from childhood, adoption by a kindly Roman patrician as the latter's son, medical studies in Alexandria, to his wanderings to serve the poor.
He comes to a belief in Christ as Messiah after railing against God for years because of the deaths of loved ones and the cruelty of men against others.
She made St. Luke human for me, and not a dusty historical figure.
Luke's interviews of Biblical figures in the Christ story are fascinating: Pilate, John and James, and the Virgin Mary.
Currently re-reading this wonderful book on the life of St. Luke. She researched this for decades and you can tell by all of the minutae that is included. St. Luke never met Christ, but he has one of the most beautiful books in the New Testament.
Unabridged audio.The novelized life of Luke the writer of the third Gospel of the New Testament. While it's readable and a lasting story I'd remind all that it's a novel. So, enjoy (I suppose ) but get your theology from the book the main character transcribed a couple of thousand years ago.
From Taylor Calwell's Author Note: it is obvious that much love and research went into this tale of the life of Luke, author of the 3rd Gospel and noted physician of his time.
Dear and Glorious Physician - Now correctly reviewed under its own title!I read this book (and several others by the author) a long, long time ago.
I did eventually read it through, but "Dear and Glorious Physician" was clearly a better book and I recall more details of it even mumblety-mumbelty years ago.
It was a pretty decent book: well-written and well plotted.Now (as I write this review) that I look over her bibliography, I see a few titles that I never read and would consider picking up: "The Arm and the Darkness", "A Pillar of Iron", "Glory and the Lightning", and "Dialogues with the Devil".
En el prefacio la autora cuenta que ha escrito la novela con amor, y se siente ese amor al leer el libro.
Hoy en día son pocas las novelas que he podido encontrar que traten a los personajes bíblicos con ese amor y respeto que se merecen.
Definitivamente no tomo la novela como algo real, puesto que es muy poco de lo que se conoce acerca de la vida de San Lucas, pero como historia es una aventura espiritual que llena muchísimo el corazón.
Creo que es el tipo de historia que necesitamos hoy más que nunca en un mundo alejado de Dios.
Have read several times, but it has been several decades since the last time.
I enjoyed it before, so expect I will still like it.
I still liked it, but had several disapointments.
I know more of the history of the time now.
There were a lot of historical inaccuracies.
Women only had meaning in reationship to the men around them .
Men aren't featured much better.
A good woman will only love one man her entire life.
A good man may love a second woman if the first one dies.
Taylor Caldwell started the book in her teens.
Based on Luke’s background as a Physician, the author starts the narrative in Luke’s early days and leads us to the time just after Jesus death.
Even though his origins are not clear, he is supposed to have been born a slave and raised in his stepfather’s house.
Through all of his life, he is supposed to fight an internal battle against social injustice and God's will.
In the end, he gets to know his mission through direct contact with many of the people who met Jesus in person.
This book was a wonderful look at a man that not much is known about.
This is the story of Luke, or Lucanus from the New Testament.
In the story, Luke despises a God who would allow his children to suffer from physical pain, ailments,etc...
He sets out to heal as many people as he can.
And then he was introduced to a lowly man from Gallilee who could heal with a mere thought to the oppressed.
The story details the fascinating transformation in the life of St. Luke.
This story is not dry and boring.
I love reading books that close friends have recommended to me. I know my friend better now after reading his favorite book.I really enjoyed this book -- the best part is the last chapter in part 1. I feel like this book went on a little too long, once Lucanus began meeting with the biblical figures to write his Gospel, I felt this part was a bit repetitive.But the atmosphere of ancient Rome was fantastic, and Lucanus's journey to faith was well worth the read.
This book is a novel, but I believe a pretty historically close novel. It takes place in the antient world around the peak and beginning of the fall of Rome. It follows the life of St. Luke and his relationship to Jesus Christ. He never actually met Jesus in this life, but without knowing it, was always searching for him. There is great character building that makes them truly believable. The author gives a bibliography of the research he has done.
Interesting interpretation of St. Luke's life. Not Gospel by any means, but still worth reading.I never saw the Evangelist to the Gentiles as quite so tormented as Caldwell portrays him here ... so this book gave me a lot to mull over. But it does raise the question/issue of great suffering being a prerequisite of great sanctity and deep compassion. And yet, it wasn't so much what happened to him as how the Spirit within him worked on those events. A very thought-provoking read.
Finalmente terminei! Difícil....bastante histórico e com pormenores e pormenores. A história no entanto é interessante, o contexto histórico muito bem introduzido. A parte final completamente bíblica. Mas revendo,trás um conhecimento interessante da época e do proprio s.lucas.
Giving this three stars in memory of enjoying it when I was a teenager. Now I just found it plodding and pedestrian.
This a fascinating and beautiful book. Not one for quick reading, but a real blessing!
Where once there had lived a sober and thrifty citizenry, proud of their founding fathers, jealous of their Republic, finding their full expression of being in work and family and their gods, and in their quiet homes and the shadows of their trees, there now lived a motley and rapacious rabble, quick to acclaim, quick to murder, quick to quarrel and as senselessly quick to approve, crowded in storied cesspools of houses, loathing work and preferring to beg and everlastingly calling upon the State to support them, fawning on vile politicians who catered to them and threatening the few honest men who opposed them for the good of Rome, and even for their own good; endlessly demanding bread and circuses, seeking mean pleasures, adoring mindless gladiators, and worshiping the newest racer or actor, or discus thrower as if he were the greatest of men; devouring, in their idleness, the crushing taxes imposed on worthier men for their support, when the world would have well been rid of them by starvation or pestilence — ah, the Roman mobs, the accursed mobs, fit masters and slaves of their patrons, their politicians, the gatherers of their votes!A very politically incorrect statement on women.
This is a work of historical fiction that integrates information from many other writings and traditional stories and sources.
Listening provided a sort of immersion where one could imagine how things were back then (to the extent we can imagine such things) and get a sense of the real people behind many of the familiar stories.While we don't actually have much factual data about the auth or of Luke-Acts (not even his name I'm afraid), the book takes traditional understanding and what can be inferred from what we do have and tells a great story.
It plausibly shows how Luke may have collected stories from various sources.
Sin embargo, también es claro que era una conservadora que hasta se asoció con un grupo antisemítico y podemos empezar a ver lo conflictivo que puede ser admirarla; fue un producto de su tiempo y un adelanto del mismo a la vez y aunque no creo que la verdad de una novela radique en su autor, esta dualidad de Caldwell también es visible en la novela y lo sentí antes de leer sobre ella.La novela es en muchos aspectos una increíble investigación histórica sobre la vida en Roma después de los años de Cicerón, cuando el gran imperio estaba condenado a perecer por su gran estado de decadencia y corrupción.
Lucano emprende un camino de aprendizaje que lo lleva a estudiar medicina en Alejandría, pero pronto se da cuenta de que su misión va mucho más allá de ayudar a los enfermos a encontrar alivio para sus dolores corporales.Furioso con Dios por haberle arrebatado en la plenitud de la vida a una persona muy querida, Lucano poco a poco irá descubriendo las señales que se le dejan en su camino.
La verdad es eterna.”“Lo que para un hombre es la felicidad, la moral o el bien, puede resultar para otro una cosa odiosa.”“El hombre que se priva de las cosas buenas del mundo, que Dios y los hombres toleran, será llamado a cuenta con severidad.”“Para un hombre sabio no sólo se debe conocer los argumentos propios, sino de los demás.”“Aprender cuesta lágrimas, dolor y sufrimiento.
I am mad at Taylor Caldwell because it took me so long to read this book.
Though he is pictured as a man with an almost mystical ability to heal the sick, he could not heal his own broken heart and bitterness toward God after the death of the first woman he loved.
It took the message of Jesus to do that.Another interesting historical aspect was the way Caldwell traced the many predictions concerning Jesus the Messiah, showing that philosophers and mystics of all stripes were aware of these prophecies.Overall it was a mixed reading experience.
No así algunos de los apóstoles, que guardaban con celo el mensaje para los judíos.Es también interesante la visión de la autora sobre la forma en que fue escrito el evangelio de San Lucas: entrevistas y mediante su gran capacidad de escuchar y plasmar lo más fielmente posible los hechos tal como le fueron contados.
