https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6538757-rock-chick
2 starsI guess this is one of those books that everyone loved but me.
I tried!
I really tried to love this book.
Then I tried to like this book.
Then I just tried to finish this book.
Unfortunately, Indy, the heroine, ruined the story for me.
I'm honestly at a loss trying to express my sheer annoyance, disapointment, and frankly, total embarrassment with Indy's character.
Not only was she flat out nuts, had one too many TSTL (to stupid to live) moments, and was beyond wishy washy; but, she was also the stupidest heroine I've read to date.
I loved his charcter and name!
Other than that, I did not enjoy this story.
You:a) Do as he told because you don't want to die youngb) Do the exact opposite, attack assassins and get kidnapped again while you pretend to be a ninja because no man will tell you what to do (but at the same time when things get serious, you wait impatiently for him to come rescue you and clean up your mess)c) N/AIf you answered at least one a) like me, then Indy will annoy the crap out of you!
But this unfortunate situation brings her closer to Lee, the man she's been in love with since she was 5 years old and rejected her repeatedly, who has made up his mind and wants to be with her at all costs.
Pure. Freaking.  Gold.  LOVE LOVE LOVED this hilarious, romantic, action-packed book!!This is probably the most all-out FUN book I've ever read! I mean, how can you not love a book about a smart, independent, sassy heroine and her Badass Extraordinaire hero getting together? huh? Its impossible not to I tell you. Impossible! :)I cannot possibly gush enough. This book was BRILLIANT!! It had me flipping pages like mad, grinning endlessly and laughing and squeeing out-loud more times than I could
I mean, how can you not love a book about a smart, independent, sassy heroine and her Badass Extraordinaire hero getting together?
"I like that we have history and our kids will have a big family and share that history because there was never a time when their Mom and Dad weren't together."  ~LeeThis book is full of typical KA fun - there are kidnappings galore, car chases, steamy bedroom scenes, swoony moments, outright hilarious moments, drag queen performances, shoot-outs, explosions, a seriously epic food-fight, and of course, a wonderful love story.
So, I’ve decided to bring this book with me to Thanksgiving dinner.Why, you ask?Well, that’s a silly question.I mean, I have to have something to show good ol’ Aunt Deb when I tell her that my future husband is Lee Nightingale.Duh.Otherwise everyone will just think I’m crazy.Which is ridiculous.Clearly. But enough about Lee. I’ll get to him later…*eyebrow waggle*I want to talk to ya guys about Kristen Ashley. This is the first novel of her that I’ve read (we’ll celebrate later)… and it’s crazy b
So, I’ve decided to bring this book with me to Thanksgiving dinner.Why, you ask?Well, that’s a silly question.I mean, I have to have something to show good ol’ Aunt Deb when I tell her that my future husband is Lee Nightingale.Duh.Otherwise everyone will just think I’m crazy.Which is ridiculous.Clearly.
But she knows there’s only really one man who can get the job done.*BIG eyebrow waggle*That’s right… she calls none other than THE Lee Nightingale.
And the reason why I call him the Lee Nightingale is because that’s exactly how Indy thinks of him, as well.
This is the first Kristen Ashley (henceforth KA) book I ever read, and I LOVE it.
I read the rest of the ROCK CHICK books over the following week or two, and I loved them too, but I missed Lee and Indy.
If you're new to KA, this is a good place to start.
Their relationship is only made sweeter by the fact that Indy has loved Lee since she was five years old and he held her hand at her mother's funeral.
BUH.
(BUH <-----means too cute for words.) So yeah.
Really good HEA, no cliff-hanger, contemporary romance/romantic suspense.
To the point that when I realized that this book wasn't (for me personally) living up to the hype, I got worried about how I would write this review.With that in mind...Ms. Ashley, and her Adoring Fans, I want you to know the following:1.
Controlling asshole + TSTL heroine + plot nonsense + stereotypes everywhere = I'm calling bullshit.For real, this book takes the crappy romance at a whole new level - I could be almost bewildered if I wasn't so pissed.
2) He wants to control every one of her actions, starting with their relationship : "This is happening between you and me," he threatened." Indeed Indy repeats several times that she is SCARED by him and his controlling behavior.
What bothered me the most is the fact that the TSTL behavior of the heroine is used as an EXCUSE to explain Lee's reactions and to make the reader believe that it's okay.
I'll keep this review short.This is my first KA book and obviously not the last.Now I understand why everyone loves her and I want to read all her books.The plot,the characters and the writing style will definitely amaze you.Truth be told,I wasn't familiar with her writing style because it's unique.It took me a while to get used to it but I ended up loving it.LeeIndyThese two heros were so strong.Lee is dangerous and one of the sexiest Alpha males.His word is a vow,his kiss....
Indy sometimes was way too stubborn and Lee was acting like a caveman.Well sometimes his cavemanish behaviour was cute but there were times where he was over reacting.The word "YIKES"!!!OMG I read it like a million times!!
Review to come.
3.75 batshit crazy STARS  “Honey, it's good you're gorgeous or you'd be a pain in the ass.”  Finally. I've been meaning to get into KA's Rock Chick series for ages and suddenly the mood struck me. And here I am scrambling to write reviews, since I'm already on book three.Rock Chick is book one in the series and is one of Kristen Ashley's older works (published in 2008) and I would say you can see the difference. We get the usual overly descriptive style, a world filled to the brink with detail,
We get the usual overly descriptive style, a world filled to the brink with detail, crazy stuff happening, slightly annoying heroines and bad-ass alpha males.
The story!India Savage also known as 'Indy' is a used book shop owner, tough girl, redhead and a rock chick.
So for the last ten years she has kept her distance and even actively avoided the love of her life.What the rock chick doesn't know is that Lee has always had a thing for her as well.
Everything you know from her other books (if you have read them) is double crazy.
4.5 Rockin’ Stars!!!! Indy Savage has been in love with her best friends brother, Lee, since she was five years old. Indy tried for years to get Lee’s attention, but you can only be rejected so many times. Indy is now 30, and the last 10 years or so, she has ignored Lee. It’s just easier that way. She see’s him at family events etc, but overall, she doesn’t spend time with him. A crazy night at her bookshop lands her delivered right to his door. With her friend and barista, Rosie, Indy gets shot
Indy Savage has been in love with her best friends brother, Lee, since she was five years old.
Indy is now 30, and the last 10 years or so, she has ignored Lee. It’s just easier that way.
“I do this thing for Rosie, you sleep with me"I stared at him, open-mouthed and in stunned silence.I did, of course, understand what he meant but he explained further."Not like last night, we'll both be naked and sexual acts will be performed."My expression didn't change except maybe my mouth opened wider."I'll expect your participation."Holy shit."Your avid participation."Dear Lord in Heaven.Eventually, I whispered, "You must be joking."He shook his head and watched me.I dropped my eyes, unable to hold his stare."I think I need more coffee,"
But when Indy’s friend and employee, Rosie, becomes the target of some very bad guys, and Indy gets dragged into it, hard-ass, won’t-take-no-for-an-answer, private investigator Lee makes sure that Indy’s days of avoiding him are over, once and for all.Rock Chick is funny, fast paced, sexy as all get out… exactly what I’ve come to expect from a Kristen Ashley story.
Macho, hot, obnoxiously über alpha men and strong, independent, but loving and compassionate women pulled me in and kept me coming back for more.
I give 1 star for the book plus an additional 1/2 star for the narration, which was actually pretty good.If you are a hard-core, die-hard Kristen Ashley fan, look the other way!
I actually think that her books have turned me off from "alpha males" for a long time.
How many times can someone try to "leave the cops out of it" because she wants to handle it on her own?
This book was hours/100 pages too long.
I'm going to have to wait a couple of years before attempting another book by this author.
There are sweet times that you can’t help but feel mushy, gushy over Lee. I love all the additional characters we meet in Indy’s adventures but special mention must go to Tex, Mr Kumar, The Kevster, Todd and Stevie, Duke and Brodie.
By far, the best characters introduced...The Hot Bunch...Eddie, Mace, Vance and Hank.I have read a few reviews talking about the way Lee treats Indy.
If you’re thinking about testing the waters with an audio book, it’s definitely worth checking out one of the books in this series.To buy Rock Chick from Amazon - http://amzn.to/2bX7BQ0I’m an Aussie chick who loves to read and review romance, drink coffee, be a Style Setter and stalk David Gandy.
*).· .·*) .·*)(.· (.·1 StarsDNF after 45%This book has 14,189 ratings and the average rating is 4.26 Stars!  4.26!!!!   I don’t get it?? Am I weird for not liking it? Because I don’t think there was much to like. And I really tried :/But maybe it’s just one of the books everyone loves but me =[All I was reading was this:   What I liked:  ► There were some funny parts^^  Sadly that’s also the only good point I have :/  What I didn't like:    This is going to be longer o.o ►Annoying characters: Wa
Honestly I don’t know how those two were able to keep out of trouble for so long...►3) Lee: The only character I actually liked at the beginning.
But it’s not about the coffee.(and all those coffee-god references started to get on my nerves) It’s about a guy that makes good coffee and which Indy doesn’t even really know.I don’t know if he’s an important character or not.
______________________________________________________ So to sum it up: I didn’t care about the story nor did I like the characters.
There are more things I didn't like but I think that's enough to explain why this book wasn't for me.
But after being turned down one too many times by Lee, Indy has spent the last few years avoiding him.Indy owns a bookstore/coffee shop and her best barista has brought chaos down on Indy's life involving diamonds, bad guys and pot.
Indy ends up needing Lee to help her, and Lee decides it's finally time she stopped avoiding him.
But like I said, there were so many moments when I laughed while reading this book, I really enjoyed it overall and I am glad to see where Kristen Ashley got her start.

Basically, Indy is a moron just like Stephanie.
(And you can just go ahead and spare me if you even are thinking of getting pissy and saying this isn’t like the Evanovich series because Kristen Ashley has in her mothereffing BIO that Evanovich is one of her influences.) So what went wrong?????
I can get over the very loose “Rock Chick” gimmick – seriously girlfriend listened to rock music, wore denim miniskirts, bangles and big belt buckles and had a claim to fame of getting a little handsy with a guitar hero .
RE-READ MY FAV SERIES with Kristina :))) <3!!!Yayyyyy and Mona with us :DReview to come!! :D <3 <3
Yeah sure it is a little out there at times but I love how much they would do to protect the other.Second there is just Indy on her own.
Dad loves you, Lee, but he’s not exactly jumping for joy that we’re together.
What I really love about Indy and Lee is that they are so different the fit together perfectly.
I seem to almost always fall on the side of love with KA but she is just my kind of crazy it seems.
As any KA goodness... it get's better with every read.  My Lee    My Indy
★Book Basics★ Genre : - Cont. Romance Series : - 1st in the series Love triangle?  - (view spoiler)[No (hide spoiler)] Cheating?  - (view spoiler)[No (hide spoiler)] HEA? -  (view spoiler)[Yes (hide spoiler)] Would I read more by this author/or in this series?  - Yes Rating  - 5 (originally 3)★Review★This is my third time re reading this book.Have to say, on the first read, I enjoyed it, but it was not my favourite of the series. I ended up in this book, getting the picture of Lee all wrong in m
(view spoiler)[Yes (hide spoiler)]
I ended up in this book, getting the picture of Lee all wrong in my head, and it kind of spoilt the book for me (not the books fault, just one of those things)However, I re read it the first time, after finishing the entire series, and enjoyed it much more, and it has become one of my favourite re reads, and I enjoy it more each time.I love a friends to lovers story, and really like both Lee and Indy, and the entire world around Fortnum's and Nightingale Investigations that KA has imagined here.
It was incredible!
There was always something happening, I was sometimes crying from laughing so hard.
Loved both the hero and heroine, Indy is totally crazy and I loved her, not the tipical "oh my goodness I can't tie my shoelaces by myself" type, but the "I'm butting my nose in all the action even if I reeealy shouldn't" :D Lee was awsome, totally cool macho bad-ass type, and the reason I so love KA heroes <3 This one tops my list of KA favorites :) I was expecting something good and wasn't dissapointed :) Looking forward to the next one, Eddie <3 <3
A splendid and unforgettable book which gave me an amazing and laughter filled reading experience...!!!Indy and her employee Rosie is getting shot by the bad guys.
Lee is the bad ass who owns Nightingale Investigations and happens to be the guy Indy has been in love with since she was five.
This is the story of how Lee wins back Indy's heart amidst the kidnapping, murders, car bombing and the bad guys chasing them..!
I loved that Lee did not wait for Indy to come around to the idea of their relationship and rather made things happen.
Honestly, I don't have a single positive thing to say about this one.-The main plot line was boring.-Lee handcuffed her TWICE without her permission.-TWICE he pinned her down and she said "get off" and he didn't get off.-He told her what to wear.
I'll quit flirting.""That's my girl"My heart stopped beating.
I was his girl."First you need to change into real clothes.""Sorry?""You aren't wearin' that out of this house""Maybe we should have this conversation in an alternate universe where I care what you want me to wear"**1 page later**"Fine.
It is a very funny story about a girl who has been in love with her best friend's brother since she was 5, and he finally wants to get together with her.
She is also in grave danger because her coffee barista got her shot at, kidnapped 3 times, stun gunned, and the attention of a small-time mobster who looks like Grandpa Munster.you'll always sparkle to me, sexy!So our hero is Indy, a girl who owns a bookstore that doesn't sell many books but gets customers in through having her own coffee guy.
Right after Indy takes out a hitman who was going towards Ally and they have the bad guys on the couch:Eddie (cop friend) to Lee: 
So if you liked Stephanie, you'll adore Indy.Indy's a cop's daughter that inherited a bookstore from her grandmother.She's happy with her life, and then somehow everything goes to hell.
Yay!I liked the book, there were lots of LOL moments.
Speaking of crazy persons, I love Tex - her new (completely insane) barista.
Of course, her common sense didn't always manage to overrule her curiosity, so she did have some TSTL moments that annoyed me, but overall she was good.As I already mentioned in other reviews of Ms. Ashley's books, I love her characters.

Indy had a crush on Lee for many years, but he always turned her down and one day he told him that she would always be his little sister best friend, therefore, nothing could happen between the two of them Indy feels broken, humiliated and knows this is the last time she will try anything.
You see, the thing is: Indy never really got over Lee, and he had his own reasons to turn her down, being his little sisters best friend not one of them.
♥♥♥ 4 STARS ♥♥♥ ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●“Your grandmother used to say that you were two souls separated in heaven.
She mainly meant you were both trouble and deserved each other.” ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ● I can't believe I hadn't read this one before now.
This book was slightly different than the other books I've read from Kristen Ashley.
There was a lot more humour in this one, which I really enjoyed.Indy Savage is the daughter of a cop, a
I felt for her when it came to her feeling totally embarrassed from the last rejection she got from Lee. They have grown up together, so they have been and still are in each others lives because of family events.
Lee has wanted Indy for quite some time.
Rosie was freaking weird but at times really funny.
This book had some action, some quite hilarious moments, a bit of steam (nothing too crazy hot), and of course some sexy alpha badass men.
I did really, really liked Lee...but didn't end up loving him.
I can't wait to read Eddie's book *sigh*.
