https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/101668.Mount_Analogue
A fever of a dream, but with all the details intact, specific, and so real.
Like ending up in a dream without leaving the real world behind, both in terms of the trivialities of living as well as the logic that never approaches dream logic.
This book was already written from another world, no wonder Daumal died mid-sentence.
In Daumal's world, the mystery of the unknown is more real than the reality of the world, so that our reality is but a dream within it.
Why would Daumal delve into surrealism when he can end up in the ideal territory of surrealism without ever leaving the real?
I am convinced that some books have a specific time in the life of a reader.
I have been meaning to procure this book since long, owing to my early interests in mystical/weird stories that aim to incorporate everything under the sun.
He was a book tracker of sorts and had acquired a hero-like figure among the reading community in Mylapore area.
I remember having pestered Thatha to help me find Mount Analogue, but he couldn't.Now that the book has finally arrived it seems like a very pompous exercise.
Did he plan the novel such that the group would never get to reach the peak?
I offer this remark as a suggestion to critics and aestheticians attempting to shed light on the depths of this mysterious language.)Point 3: Mount Analogue, mysterious as it is, by defining both its protagonist’s quest and its author’s, contains the means to its own solution.
As Daumal’s narrator says (when the members of his expedition consider postponing their ascent of the mountain in order to broaden their fields of knowledge in the town below), there’s a time to nail “that nasty owl of intellectual cupidity” to the door.
A kind of theoretical adventure story, where the protagonists work with ingenious logic backwards from the supposition that the recurrent myth of the mountain to the heavens (Olympus, Sinai, Babel) must imply an actual such mountain, and if such exists where and how could it exist so as to avoid detection until now?
With a great deal of totally fascinating discussion of everything within Daumal's reach: philosophy, psychology, folklore, physics, all wrapped up in an exceedingly engaging tale.
The novel went tragically unfinished with Daumal's death in '44, but in some ways the tantalizingly incomplete narrative fits the material.
And so, then, does this fascinating novel extend straight from the pages into my hands into sheer possibility, into the infinite.
P. Lovecraft's masterpieces like At the Mountains of Madness - child's adventure tales with a mature cosmic purpose.
Lovecraft was obsessed with the littleness of humanity and its ultimate destruction by extremely ancient forces and intelligences from beyond, but Daumal was much more optimistic and humanistic and was interested in the individual's ability to actually glimpse "heaven" and continuously evolve into something more.
In the book a team of seekers sets out to find Mount Analogue (an actual mountain but also the literal meeting point of Heaven and Earth) using some newly (early 20th cent) discovered scientific principles such as the curvature of light.
They left pointillist patterns across the lower portion of each page; if I hold it up just right, it's like starlight.For a "metaphysical adventure" that ends mid-chapter, mid-sentence, mid-thought, Mount Analogue failed entirely to set off my bullshit-detectors.
If it made you think, a somewhat giddily, of Christian Rosenkreutz, well, stop reading my words now and track down Daumal's.)I loved the way the mountain's space-curving mystery interacted with contemporary physics, optics, even, in a slightly problematic way, ideally viewed, like the island in "Lost," through an affectionate haze; I loved the complex inventions that required so much work to make life easier; I loved the strange geometric cosmology, the mythology of the hollow men and bitter-rose, the rhythmic, repetitive climbing songs; I loved the alien familiarity of the mountain's rules, its responsibilities.
En esta misiva, Sogol, después de haber leído el artículo del narrador sobre el simbolismo de las montañas, propone buscar el mítico Monte Análogo, que une el Cielo con la Tierra.
La aventura ha dado comienzo.La obra se complementa con un artículo de Dumal, ‘Unos cuantos poetas franceses del siglo XXV’, que a modo de ensayo-ficción nos propone una serie de poetas inventados, que le sirven de despiadada crítica y burla de las corrientes poéticas del presente del escritor.Extraña, amena y magnífica joya literaria.
Prende le mosse ideali dalla disciplina (si può ancora usare questa parola?) dell'alpinismo, per avventurarsi in una fantasia esoterica in senso lato. Ha il pregio di una pulizia di altri tempi (fu scritto negli anni '40) e il difetto di essere incompleto (l'autore morì di un'affezione polmonare prima di completare il testo). Il mio non è un giudizio di merito, ma di gusto. Nel rispetto dello scrittore-poeta e filosofo francese, il suo libro non ha incontrato la mia sensibilità. Per altre vie, e con maggiore acume, il nostro Buzzati ha scritto pagine assai più intense e asciutte.
"I am dead because I lack desire,I lack desire because I think I possess.I think I possess because I do not try to give.In trying to give, you see that you have nothing;Seeing that you have nothing, you try to give of yourself;Trying to give of yourself, you see that you are nothing:Seeing that you are nothing, you desire to become;In desiring to become, you begin to live."
This way-too-short and fatally incomplete last work of René Daumal is a weird amalgam of Swift, Verne, Melville, Pynchon and Nietzsche.
I felt as if drugged while reading it, and experienced a severely dislocating sense of déjà vu as these other authors' works rose up and entered my mind.Certainly it was nice to find an extremely rare mention in fiction (Pynchon uses it, too) of Einstein's theory of General Relativity: specifically the curvature of light by an enormous mass, the hallucinatory Mt. Analogue itself in this instance.
I'll refer you to other reviewers if you want some insight into the metaphysics of this book, such as they are.
Analogue is probably positioning itself as a satire of the same genre that Pym references.Mount Analogue is very similar in tone to an episode of Rocky and Bullwinkle - its disregard for continuity, its self-seriousness, the nobility of its characters and the absurdity of their intentions, personalities, and names ("Judith Pancake").
The book's structure plays with tone: its irreverent beginning becomes unsustainable once the flimsy ambition of the characters is shaken and distracted by the tourist economy they find at the foothills of the mountain.The simplicity of their goal: to reach the mountain, is contrasted by the complexity of each of their respective disciplines and research interests.
The vehicle for Daumal's consideration of intellectual liveliness (the actual plot of the story) can seem frivolous and distracting or a bit thinly veiled; but there is humor in it and a quick pace.The "Tale of the bitter rose and the hollow men"--a mountain legend revealed to the seekers is particularly memorable; but is counterbalanced by some poor poetry and a flat creation myth.The books is worth reading.
But it will frustrate most readers that it ends mid sentence, just when the real business of shedding light gets under way.One of the book's thought provoking positions: it is a crime to create a void that you do not try to fill.
A handbook on how to write convincingly about fantastical scenarios. "Lost" fans will find some startling familiarities here and Calvino fans will appreciate the ingenious structure that marries invented mythology and adventure story. Daumel died before he could finish, but what exists is more than worthwhile. His notes suggest allegory was going to surface in the final chapters, so maybe the unresolved ending is preferable?
one of my favoritest of all.i've been rereading it and will continue to, for most of my life.an interesting movie to watch after having read this: The Holy Mountain, by Jodorowsky. pretty much the same plot, only with the addition of torture, giant tarot cards, jesus-face-flesh-eating, decapitated animals, and bathing hippos.
Supón que empiezas a escribir un libro que se presta a infinidad de analogías desde la autoconsciencia y a la vez no hace que prepondere la lectura entre líneas ni la retranca y, justo cuando tienes al lector absolutamente flipado con lo que estás haciendo, llegas y
This made me shriek and curl up into a ball with sheer joy."Julie Bonasse, between twenty-five and thirty, a Belgian actress. She was having just then a considerable success on the stage in Paris, Brussels, and Geneva. She was the confidante of a swarm of odd young people whom she guided into paths of sublime high-mindedness. She said, 'I adore Ibsen' and 'I adore chocolate eclairs,' in the same tone of mouth-watering conviction. She believed in the existence of the 'fairy of the glaciers,' and in winter she skied a great deal on slopes with cable lifts."
I've read this book thanks to recommendation found in another book titled Psicomagia. Jodorowsky mentions this book as something that influenced or even inspired him to make The Holy Mountain.Also Rene Daumal seems to be influenced by Gurdijeff Foruth Way which was another reason to read it. The book starts really interesting but unfortunately it ends abruptly since author dies before finishing it.Not sure what to make out of it yet, next stop: watch The Holy Mountain
I don't get it.
5 for concept, 3 for execution, talked about it more here: http://5cense.com/14/372.htm
Der Roman erschien erst acht Jahre nach seinem Tod und gilt bis heute als Geheimtip für Liebhaber.Abenteuer, Science Fiction, alpinistische Exkurse, mythische Erzählungen, philosophische Gedanken und diverse Abschweifungen verbinden sich zu einer einzigartigen, skurrilen Mischung.Die Reise zum Berg steht ganz offensichtlich für die Suche nach dem Absoluten.
Die neue deutsche Edition ist mit Grafiken von Andrea di Serego Aligheri illustriert und wird mit einem ausführlichen Anhang des Übersetzers über den Autor und die Entstehung des Romans ergänzt, was entscheidend zu dessen Verständnis beiträgt.Wäre mir dieses Buch vor 40 Jahren schon untergekommen, als junger Abenteurer, fasziniert von französischen Symbolisten bis Surrealisten, immer auf der Suche nach obskuren Geschichten, ich wäre hellauf begeistert gewesen.
We knew that nasty owl of intellectual cupidity all too well, and each of us had his own owl to nail to the door, not to mention few chattering magpies, strutting turkeys, billing and cooing turtle doves, and geese, fat geese! But all those birds were so anchored, grafted so deeply to our flesh that we could not extract them without tearing our guts out. We had to live with them a long time yet, suffer them, known them well, until they’ll from us like scabs in a skin condition, fell by themselv
We knew that nasty owl of intellectual cupidity all too well, and each of us had his own owl to nail to the door, not to mention few chattering magpies, strutting turkeys, billing and cooing turtle doves, and geese, fat geese!
But all those birds were so anchored, grafted so deeply to our flesh that we could not extract them without tearing our guts out.
We had to live with them a long time yet, suffer them, known them well, until they’ll from us like scabs in a skin condition, fell by themselves as the organism regained its health; it is harmful to pull them off prematurely.
Daumal suele ser asociado a los surrealistas, pero en El monte análogo demuestra sinceridad e inteligencia, cualidades muy raras en ese grupo. La metáfora fundante merece alguna reflexión; podría servir como disparador para una reflexión necesaria sobre como la fracción de la naturaleza que utiliza como recursos (la montaña y los océanos) están ligadas a narrativas de conquista y autosuperación, que a estas alturas ya forman el smog intelectual de nuestra época. Probablemente debamos buscar en zonas con encantos más discretos, en las aguas playas y estancas.
Inspiring. Lyrical, and elegant (yet too short, unfortunately). Read this, if you're on your way to discovering your own Mount Analogue, if you're already on your way up, and most importantly - read it if you haven't conceived the idea at all, yet. Some hidden lights will start flickering, waking up in your brain, one by one, and from then on you're always going to be on your way up, never down, because even falling down is climbing up.
Varsin veikeä seikkailukertomus, jossa etsitään salaperäistä Mont Analogueta, vuorta, jota kaikki eivät voi löytää. Tarina on syvä ja kiehtova, harmillista, ettei kirjailija ehtinyt kirjoittaa sitä loppuun ennen kuolemaansa. Toisaalta nyt jää lukijan oman mielikuvituksen varaan miettiä, kuinka kaikki päättyy ja mitä Mont Analogue lopulta merkitsee.
Intellectual cupidity.
Uncompleted, it was a very promising start.
This is doubly admirable given that Mount Analogue is a treatise on esoteric topics claimed to be ineffable, inscrutable, not easy to comprehend.
In like manner he sandwiches mention of a herd of unicorns between descriptions of imagined but believable variations on real animals.
The pedestrian tone of a travel diary anchors flights of fancy in the human and mundane, the same way a balloon which rises skyward can be tied down to a post stuck in the earth.As a book of ideas, Mount Analogue fails to impress.
In this book, the characters are stick figures (with the single exception of Pierre Sogol), and the world is drawn in outline.
But some of the ideas are interesting, particularly the concept of Mount Analogue itself, and the character of Pierre Sogol does much to redeem the weakness of the other characters.
Daumel died before he completed this book, so it ends abruptly, but I actually think that the abrupt ending is better than it would have been if he had completed it, because launches the story off into the unknown heights of Mount Analogue where it belongs, leaving it to the reader's own imagination and spirtual development to carry it forward to what might or might not be an ending.
So better not read this in a quiet library full of people...just in case, you know...I personally fell for the symbolic perfection achieved with Daumal's last work.
Although it was left unfinished in words, its artistic and spiritual significance renders it complete.
Kudos to Gurdjieff as well - his influence deserves to be acknowledged.If there's a sentence from this book that should especially stick out, then let it be this one: "The path to our highest desires often lies through the undesirable." Now amen to that.
A short journal, written by journalist whose fictional essay aroused a passionate alpinist-mathematician's interest. As they form a convinced group setting out to travel to Mount Analogue, whose existence is (almost) mathematically proven, the journal becomes a travel journal.Few anecdotes, reflections and hiking songs later, the unfinished book comes to an end, making me wish its executions would have been more detailled. But, as always, grievances leave space for wishes, and therefore dreams.
