https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/65490.When_Breaks_the_Dawn
-Elizabeth Thatcher Delaney 1st person P.O.V. of Elizabeth Set in 1912-1916 215 pages~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*Pre Teens- One StarNew Teens- One Star (and a half) Early High School Teens- Three Stars Older High School Teens- Four Stars My personal Rating- Four Stars Because the main part of this book is Elizabeth wanting a child but not being able to conceive it’s not the most relatable for teens.
Like I said, main part of this story is Elizabeth wanting to conceive, but there was no sexual hints or mentions at all!
Originally posted on Reveries Reviews.The third book in the Canadian West series did not disappoint! True, it was a little draggy at points, but I still enjoy Elizabeth and Wynn and all the people at Beaver Creek. I think I’m just about done with this series; I’ll probably read the next book and then stop.SPOILERS! I guess I’m just disappointed that Elizabeth and Wynn didn’t have a child … and in all likelihood won’t, from what I can tell. END OF SPOILERS!~Kellyn Roth
I liked the first book, but the next two were too God in my face, and there was absolutely no romance mentioned! I mean really, I'm no prude, but even God wants people to have kids. At least talk about it a bit. It's such a white elephant in the room how it is so ignored until so late in this series.
I found that this book was much improved over the second in the series and just as good as the first.This installment starts out exactly where the second book left it, at the trader's and his wife's return to the settlement with much needed supplies.
One of these in particular, a little girl named Susie, actually lives with Elizabeth and Wynn for awhile and gives them a taste on what it is like to have children.Susie wouldn't be the only child they would take care of in the book however.
This book, like the others in the series, is written from Elizabeth's perspective.Oke's characters are very believable in this book.
In a nutshell, this book is about the trial and tribulations of Elizabeth and Wynn while they endure the hardships of the rugged west.
You don't have to have read the first two books in the series but it might be helpful.
Some characters are mentioned in passing that will be unfamiliar if you haven't read the previous two books but it doesn't affect the present storyline much.
It's a simple/quick read and you find yourself really caring about the characters--all of them.
Elizabeth really struggled and she made mistakes but it frustrated me a bit that Wynn was so good.
Now settled in the remote village with her Mountie husband, Elizabeth's life is still full of changes. Her friends need help, she wants to start a school, and she desperately wants to start a family. The emotional turmoil and pain some of these cause may hit close to home for some, but the author doesn't dwell on sadness for too long - and Elizabeth's faith in God always brings hope.
Love it. Abia astept sa citesc continuarea.
This was a really slow read...the 215 pages covered about 4 years. Little bit here, little bit there. Elizabeth was kind of annoying and whiny and it was just kind of a depressing read. I'll read the rest of the series to see how it ends. Tell me it gets better!
This was Book 3 of a series of 4. I won't be reading Book 4. In this book, the Bible verses increased, as the story, itself, became boring.
Another wonderful book in this series! I own all four of the first books and have been re-reading them (I first read them before I was on Goodreads) They are just as good as the first time! I did find them very anti-climatic because whatever surprises or hardships they faced I already knew how it all turned out.Content: cheek kisses, hug (both with married couple), mentions of birth and child-bearing (little-to-none, not described), mentions of Indian witchcraft
I can’t believe I am still reading these
I liked the first one but the second book in this series fell flat for me because there was no real courtship between the two main characters - it just sort of happened.The third book basically details Elizabeth's longing for a child.
She mopes a LOT, saying things like "God had blessed so many women with babies, but not me" or "I needed a child to make my life complete" or "I had a hard time being happy for my pregnant friends since I didn't have that joy of my own." She just seemed whiny to me.
This book picks up right where it left off with the wagon train full of supplies and Ian and Nimmie returning from their trip after the terrible burning of the store in Book 2.
Elizabeth and Nimmie receive permission from the Chief to begin a school but it is small in attendance.
Elizabeth and Wynn take in a child Susie for a time but she must move with her family to the larger village after a time.
This book covers a much larger time period than book two canvasing several years rather than just one.
This book had a lot of sadder things in life which is very realistic of living in this time period. I loved the Bible perspective it brought through the hard times though and brings much more depth to deep pains in life.
They've been making a life for themselves at Beaver River, a village in the far Northwest, but they'll face a devastating disappointment in When Breaks the Dawn by author Janette Oke.This novel felt like classic Janette Oke to me: homey but challenging frontier life, simply depicted.
As with the previous novels in the series, I still feel that Elizabeth cries too often for her tears to stay interesting, but she's not a weak heroine.
I got to realize right along with her how much she's changed, and following the course and distinct shift of her homesickness may be what I liked best about this read.My enjoyable mission to finish the Canadian West series continues.
Eh. It was fine, but the plot felt largely the same as the previous book.
Elizabeth wasn’t able to have a baby and she doesn’t talk to Wynn about it like ...
I get that people got married earlier and younger in those days and they didn’t have these drawn out relationships that we do now, but they live in the middle of nowhere and have plenty of time to talk.
I dunno, I got bored with this one.
The books lack the charm of the show (I know IM SORRY) and I’m just not attached to these characters.
This book picks up maybe minutes after the last book ends so reading as I did (i.e. finishing book two and immediately purchasing this) worked very well.
There are no real plot twists or turns that will surprise you, the story overall remains a sweet one (though I do feel sorry for (view spoiler)[Elizabeth and Wynn as they continue to be childless - and the short time with the Indian child was really heartbreaking for them both (hide spoiler)])The ending of this book isn't as satisfactory as books 1 and 2, but it does feel like more of a stopping point.
In this 3rd book Elizabeth is newly wed and baby crazy.
Everyone around her seems to be having a baby but there is no bun in the oven for Elizabeth and Wynn.
She gets a school started for the Native American children in the area which keeps her busy for a while, and she takes care of a couple of children temporarily, but she finally breaks down and tells Wynn and God how sad she is that she doesn’t have a child of her own.
I might just be getting bored with the series but it just wasn’t very exciting.
I’ll probably read at least one more book in this series before deciding if I’m done or if I want to continue on.
Elizabeth & Wynn are people with a deep faith in God, living in a remote area of Canada in the late 1800's, among an Indian settlement of people who don't know God yet.
I love that the author illustrates how one can learn from people who live differently than you, love people who believe differently than you, but not compromise your beliefs.
I also like that she doesn't just paint the story of Elizabeth's faith as all roses & sunshine-- but tells of the times she feels down, is made at God and doubts-- something not all Christian fiction does well.
Adii, it's been so long since I read this book! I hate it when I take so long to write reviews!Sorry. I'll stop complaining now.In this book, Elizabeth gets a couple tastes of motherhood, but is unable to conceive herself. (view spoiler)[My heart broke for her when she was seemingly given an infant to raise, only to have him taken back by his father after he'd become part of their family. (hide spoiler)]There's also a stressful scene where Wynn is searching for someone in snow and freezing temperatures. Yet another thing that's very familiar to my current location.
I think the thing that struck me the most during this re-read is the poignancy of Elizabeth's struggle with infertility. I enjoy her developing relationship with Nimmie and the deepening of her relationship with Wynn. Mostly I just want more. I want more of Wynn and a more rounded understanding of him and what he does. It's the limitation of seeing everything through Elizabeth's eyes, I suppose, along with the limitations of the genre. Enjoyable, but sometimes lacking in depth.
It appears as if the author split When Comes the Spring in half and then dragged out both to create this extra book under a different title, covering the next three years at Beaver River and focusing on the couple's hopes to start a family.
Too bad it wasn't written as one book because both halves would have benefited from condensing.
This book is more somber, as Elizabeth becomes increasingly concerned about her infertility, they twice have to part with Cree children whom they fostered, disease takes its toll among the Cree, Elizabeth's school reaches fewer children than she envisioned, and WWI commences.
Another lovely and enjoyable book in this series, though compared to the previous two it felt like there wasn’t a lot happening. Until the end that is. I did really enjoy the realness of Elizabeth’s struggles and the way she dealt with them. She’s a well rounded character. I’m excited to read book number 4 and continue Elizabeth’s story.
Time in the NorthThis is a story of a persons love for her husband,her God and her life. When she began to love others she realized how great a life she has. It She shared her love of her God with other members of the village that she lived which in turn helped her to be a better person.
I am thoroughly enjoying these stories. The strength of the women, the growth of Elisabeth is so inspiring and yet heart wrenching. To think of the conveniences we have today vs how it used to be saddens me that children today will never grow up knowing the hardships many faced just to live.
Really enjoy it. Love this book! As I did all those before it. It was interesting to go through the daily experiences Elizabeth had with the natives of the area. And especially keeping God in the story.
Unless you have read the previous 2 books this one may be hard to follow. It is about life with the Canadian Indians that live very primitively. The main character is married to a Mountie and what problems he sometimes faces. Some sadness with losses in book.
I love easy to read novels. This book did not keep my attention as well as the first installment, but it was a lovely story. I love the life lessons placed within. We really do not need much to be happy, but we do need our loved ones.
Another good readI read this story just as fast as the first. I love these stories about a married couple and their new life. This book did drag a bit as it continuously focused on Elizabeth’s desire for a baby, but overall it was a good story.
Love these books! Good, wholesome, Christian experiences. Reminds me a little of the "Little House on the Prairie " books. Love the TV show too, though it doesn't follow the book's storyline very closely.
