https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34928122-artemis
The scary scenario of being stranded so far away from everything and everyone you know, the very high probability that Mark Watney wouldn't survive, his chirpy sense of humour that keeps him going...
And Jazz Bashara is SO ANNOYING.Look, I completely get why Mark Watney annoyed some readers and, given that Weir transplanted his personality and awkward sense of humour into Jazz, it might seem a bit contradictory to have a problem with her personality.
Mark Watney talked science to explain how he was going to survive and feed himself on Mars; Jazz talks science to explain the mechanics of welding.
A heist where the main character survives with her scientific knowledge?COUNT ME IN!!I was so excited for this book but I didn't end up loving nearly as much as The Martian.Even though I liked the overall idea, I didn't like the characters and the constant jokes and insults felt incredibly forced.The main character Jazz, a 26 years old woman, was talking and thinking like a cringy 15 years old boy.
I'm still not sure how to review the ending so I'll have to sleep on it and come back for an update!UPDATE: After thinking about it, I wanted to add that it was interesting to read about the heist with the scientific knowledge thrown in there but it wasn't enough to make this book a must-read.
This is mostly about Jazz who has lived on the moon since she was 6 and now she's in her 20's.
Rich people come to the moon every year to spend their holiday.
There are life and death situations and Jazz in put on the spot to save the whole city.
THEY ARE LIVING ON THE MOON!
THEY ARE LIVING ON THE MOON!
And I have to mention some of the people I loved in the book: SvobodaDaleLeneKelvinBob Jazz dadand some randoms =) *I would like to thank Netgalley and the publisher for a copy of this book*MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading List
This is not the review I was expecting to write, but this is not the book I was expecting to read.Andy Weir has successfully taken the one element I didn't like in THE MARTIAN and expanded on that until ARTEMIS is almost a chore to read.
I still enjoyed the book for all the old-school science fiction fun.HOWEVER, after cutting Weir some slack for his forced characterizations in The Martian, I am not so ready to do the same with Artemis.
Jazz, our female protagonist in Artemis, has almost the exact same personality as Mark from The Martian.
Was I in for a big letdown?Lucky for me, the book was a 4 star experience!Thoughts on why others rated it so low - these are just guesses, I may be totally wrong:It is not The Martian - sometimes when people are a huge fan of a book they are hoping for a same experience with the next book.
Science/Technology - After The Martian, I think it would be expected, but this book has a lot of science/engineering and maybe that detracted too much from the story for some.
Since other people I kind of expected to like this didn't, I am not quite sure who to recommend it to.
Let's start with Jazz: Jazz Bashara is a Saudi woman written the way a white guy who's never spoken to or met a single woman in his entire life would write her.
Seriously, there are 15 y/o boys who could have written this character with greater respect and far fewer sex jokes.The slut shaming: How many times can people (including Jazz) mention that she has SO MUCH SEX?
If I had my way I would ban Weir from ever writing about another gay character in any book for the rest of his life.
Seems to me that Andy Weir rushed to write this book.Oh man, what a disappointment.
You know, ‘‘telling it like it is’’, but all he’s doing is perpetrating stereotypes and racist ways of thinking, like him implying that a niqab is a mask that raises suspicion.* It’s just so wrong for him to say that.I needed this book to be more serious and considerate of other nationalities and cultures and actually have a female character I could connect with, but I disliked Jazz profusely.
I admit to worrying that he wouldn't be able to keep up the quality from The Martian, and this is definitely a very different kind of tale from that, being half a heist novel but otherwise just a great adventure, but he pulls it off.
I really couldn't ask for more when it comes to fun science fiction.The moon is a great place to have an adventure.
That's what we've got going on, here, and it's a real treat every step of the way.No spoilers, but I can easily say that I had a great time reading it from the first to the last page.
The only thing that bugged me was the writing style, which I suppose is similar to The Martian, but I felt it was a better fit with that story, and with Artemis it just felt forced.
The overall plot for this story is Jazz performing a heist, and I was expecting it to take the whole book, but the main part of the heist itself finishes around the middle of the book.
I just hope whatever he writes next is from a male perspective because although I appreciate his effort, Jazz's voice just sounded like Mark Watney pretending to be a woman.
I see Penny Johnson Jerald as Administrator Fidelis Ngugi - image from Hollywood ReporterAs with The Martian, Andy Weir is very interested in showing us space tech, and explaining the relevant science.
A bit of corny humor around an experimental reusable condom did not work.I kept seeing Oded Fehr as Jazz’s father, Ammar Bashara – image from TV GuideHe looks at the economy and sociology of the moon society as well, including crime, currency, and political organization.
What he has succeeded in writing is a fast-moving, engaging, fun book that will slip you a little intel about actual moon-base science and planning while keeping you thoroughly entertained.
But it’s still a pretty fun read and got a lot of the stuff I liked about that one so no shame there.Weir has built up a lot of detail about life on the moon from the nuts-and-bolts stuff science stuff as well as how the Artemis society functions.
Jazz is a borderline criminal, not an astronaut, but like Mark she’s got a can-do attitude mixed with a fun way of explaining all the technical stuff to the reader.
While it’s great that Weir made his main character a young woman who is a lapsed Muslim he didn’t exactly do anything with those traits.
I'm between 3 and 3.5 stars here.Although it has been a few years since Andy Weir published  The Martian , he hasn't been missing from the literary world, thanks to his sharing a number of free super-short stories with the reading public. (  Annie's Day   remains my favorite of the bunch.) Even so, I was anxious for him to come out with a new novel.Artemis is the first city on the moon. While wealthy tourists get to experience the city's luxuries, for the ordinary citizens living there, it's alm
She doesn't care that it's wrong; in fact, she's more than a little proud to be gaming the system.One day, one of Jazz's wealthy regular customers offers her a part in a scheme that seems almost too good to be true, but her part of the spoils would be enough to give her the type of life she has always dreamed of.
(And no, it wasn't the gravity.) Weir has created quite a world, and certainly the descriptions helped paint the scene, but I felt at times the lengthy scientific diatribes pulled the plot off course.The other thing that frustrated me about the book is the fact that Jazz speaks and thinks like a teenage boy.
For her, the thrill is in the challenge and the smuggling allows her to supplement her meager earnings as a porter which allows only for her to reside in a 'coffin', where she can sleep, but otherwise has to share communal facilities with others.The wealthy Trond Lanvik is looking to acquire Sanchez Aluminium through underhand means and offers Jazz a million slugs to sabotage the company.
This is a fantastic read, and I hope Andy Weir has plans to revive Jazz as a character in the future.
+ 1 star for the light-hearted banter- 1 star for stupid sex ennuendos, promiscuity bashing or whatever+ 1 star for the world-building+ 1 star for the readability+ 1 star for the clear cut style- 1 star for this gal's stupidity and total immaturity+ 1 star for the science present (there was some of it, not all good, but some)+ 1 star for the fact that we have got no loooong multipaged star drive building lectures (which often plagues the sci-fi)+ 1 star for our heroes not giving lectures to each other on everyday to them things and rather referring to the reader with explanations- 1 star for overall plot logic lacking in places, some things sounding especially harebrained+ 1 star for economics considerations- 1 star for nationalistic overgeneralizations, some pretty brutal (in my touchy view)+ 1 star for getting some Russian/Ukrainian names right.
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend. A chemistry-centric heist/mystery/action-adventure that hinges on its roguish protagonist.
But the plan doesn’t work out quite the way she intended, organized crime elements get involved, and suddenly it’s a life-and-death situation for Jazz.Artemis (2017), Andy Weir’s just-published second novel, didn’t engage me nearly to the extent The Martian did, but it’s action-packed and ― once the crimes finally get rolling ― compulsively readable.
I suppose something had to give to work in all the science facts and the too often cringe-worthy jokes.The cast of characters in Artemis is highly diverse, beginning with Jazz herself, a rebellious Arab young woman protagonist.
Did a bunch of male redditor stereotypes get together and create a "sexy" protagonist and write this? Because that's what it felt like. It's a no from me. Video review will be up next week :DEdit/Note: I go on reddit every single day. I was making a joke that the protagonist felt like a cliche of what men want women to be like. It's not an awful book. I just had a few issues with the plot/pacing I'll talk about in my video review.
"A story about a city on the moon with a female lead." First thing that popped in my head:
during the futuristic years , the 2080's, set on its only city Artemis ( ancient Greek goddess of the Moon), granted not much in comparison to Earth's urban centers, just 2,000 people living inside five crowded, connected spheres (bubbles), mostly underground, small living spaces, few parks, little hotels for the tourists, entertainment essentially non- existent...
Biggest fucking disappointment of the year.I wish I could unread this.How can one person write one of the best books of all time but also one of the worst books of all time?
WTF ANDY The writing style was weird, Weir's "humor" was only based on his main character being a female (It literally felt like a teenage boy who has no idea how a woman actually thinks tried to write this) and the story was just plain BORING.
Oh and the characters were as one dimensional as it can get.
That's how bored and annoyed I was.
It was like Weir conceded that plot set-up and characterization are things that novels should include, so he gave it his best shot and attempted to cover up his lack of ability in those areas by making lots and lots of (middle school) jokes.
Once the heist starts, the action kicks in, and the surprisingly believable and interesting technical, science-y bits come into play, the book hits its stride and shows off Weir's strengths.
In hindsight, reflecting on the book as a whole, it's really not that good.I've read that Weir realizes that characterization isn't his greatest strength and that he'd rather focus on the story, which is fine!
In space, no-one can hear you yawn…I try to include plot summaries at the top of my reviews for context but I can’t do it for Fartemis - every time I think about this trash my mind collapses out of exhausted, frustrated, sheer boredom!
This is one author I’ll never read again!Jazz is a Muslim for diversity reasons only.
And, like in The Martian, there are far too many overly technical passages full of (probably) real science that was immensely dull to read – this is a novel, not an engineering manual, Andy!
Original rating at 4 stars yet weeks after reading this I still keep thinking about the originality of this epic plot.
I think it is only fair to award this the full 5 stars.
I think this was even better than The Martian!Jazz Bashara resides in and adores her moon-colony-home, Artemis.
She is one independent lady and clever individual, who uses these skills to alleviate her position.
Just like Mark Watney, it was her sassy and sarcastic self that made the entire reading experience for me.
It was, again, Jazz's dialogue that lightened the tone and alleviated the dense surrounding descriptions.
Dangerous Place to Live....the Moon.Andy Weir, one of my favorite authors, serves up another winner with his new sci-fi thriller ARTEMIS....and Jazz Bashara is the spirited and defiant main attraction.Jasmine/Jazz is basically a good person, has a smart mouth, works as a lowly Porter, and drives around in a cart she named Trigger.
despite her sideline of smuggling AND superior IQ, she still lives in a room the size of a coffin....literally....and wants out!SO....
30% off at Book Depository (with free international shipping) 40% off at Amazon US and 30% off at Amazon UKThis review can also be found on my blog, Dana and the Books 4.5/5 A heist on the moon.A heist.
Answer: with Artemis.Artemis isn't as funny (though it's still pretty damn funny), but dear god is it intense.
They worked well together (albeit, reluctantly) and all had a clear role to play to complete the job.Leading the story is Jazz.Jazz is a dick.She's an awful, selfish, petty smuggler and I love her.
Attack of the Moon Woman Who Made Bad Life Decisions. 2.5 Stars. Jazz has lived on Artemis, the first and only city on the moon, for two decades. To make ends meet, she smuggles contraband to those willing to pay. One day, a rich client has an intriguing request. He needs her help to sabotage Artemis's sole aluminum company so that he can enter the aluminum business. This is far beyond any criminal act that she's performed before, but he makes her an offer she can't refuse: one million slugs (A
Jazz has lived on Artemis, the first and only city on the moon, for two decades.
This goes much deeper than gaining a controlling stake in the lucrative aluminum industry.Jazz and her father moved from Saudia Arabia to the Moon when she was six-years-old.
They look like boobs.”  There are constant jokes about identity, breasts, sex, excrement, and prostitutes.
He asked about it so much that I was surprised it didn't play a part in the end.) I know there were similar critiques of the humor in The Martian, so maybe my love of stories about people trying to get back home overrode any potential annoyances.
Andy Weir! HOW THE HELL YOU HAVE SUCH AN EXCELLENT GRIP ON SCIENCE?!!!I really wanted to read another book by him after reading his masterpiece, The Martian. Yes! Still masterpiece even after this book. The news of a new book from him was one of the best things that could ever happen to me. Like in The Martian, Andy Weir's knowledge of science shines in this book very well. ARTEMIS, The Only City on Moon *ahem ahem* WOOOOOW!! HOW PERFECTLY BUILT IT WAS!! REALLY!! How the city runs, how the Life
HOW THE HELL YOU HAVE SUCH AN EXCELLENT GRIP ON SCIENCE?!!!I really wanted to read another book by him after reading his masterpiece, The Martian.
How the city runs, how the Life Support center works here, how and why it has different money, how it fulfils its need of electricity etc ARE AMAZING!!
There is a train which connects Artemis, Visitor Center and Smelter with one another.The city uses different kind of money which is called slug and symbolically, ğ.
In The Martian this fact was understandable and seems very natural but here it didn't work that good.(view spoiler)[》The plot was going amazing.
this book had a younger vibe to it, a much different storyline, and its own cast of sarcastic sassy characters....Jazz really reminded me of a heroine in a YA fantasy/science fiction/dystopian book...
just like most Fantasy heroines Jazz did a lot of things without thinking them completely through...
but I really liked Jazz more than most of those other heroines!
there were a lot of moon fax, but I did not think it was science heavy at all...
The book was really more about Jazz and how in trying to better her situation she got caught up in a huge conspiracy to take over the moon!
With Artemis, Weir doesn’t try to regenerate the underdog survival story that resonated so deeply with The Martian’s readers and audience, instead spinning an Ocean’s Eleven-type crime caper on the moon.
This decision will likely whittle his readership down considerably to those who were attracted to the detail obsessed techno-savvy, sarcastic humor and science-based suspense of his first novel, and weed out those who were primarily in it for the survival-against-all-odds emotional catharsis.
In Artemis, Weir makes good on that suggestion by reversing the old standard: the white guys are relegated to supporting/sidekick type roles while an international, multi-ethnic cast of characters takes center stage.
I should have just left this one as a DNF. What a letdown.
