https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/425029.Presumed_Innocent
The story begins with the murder of Carolyn, another prosecuting attorney, with whom Rusty had an affair and never got over his obsession of her.
Rusty gets the responsibility of investigating the crime but himself ends up getting accused of the murder and faces trial.The book features some really great court room scenes, complex characters and portrays so many human emotions and frailties.
I would recommend the book to lovers of legal thrillers, murder mysteries, psychological thrillers if he/she does not mind the ramblings of the protagonist.
here, let me give you my reconstruction...HILLARY CLINTON: [on podium, in front of huge crowd] And now, our prosecutor is going to read out a list of indictments against my opponent, Donald Trump.
Jill Harth recently accused Donald Trump of sexually assaulting her in 1997.
Do you think he's innocent or guilty?MAN IN CROWD: Some parts of her story ring true, but she's changed it a lot of times.WOMAN IN CROWD: Yeah, it's hard to know what's going on.SECOND MAN IN CROWD: And it's all hearsay.PROSECUTOR: So, what do we think?CROWD: Presumed innocent!PROSECUTOR: I can't hear you.CROWD: PRESUMED INNOCENT!!PROSECUTOR: Thank you, that's a great answer!
E libro es fantástico, con un final maravillosamente hilado y para mi totalmente inesperado. ¿Y qué decir de la película con Harrison Ford?
A lot of back story was needed to get the reader up to speed and this is when things were a little slow and sometimes less interesting with the political campaign less absorbing but we know what is just around the corner.When the story gets into the courtroom the book was hard to put down.
The dialogue flowed with ease and there were many times when you were keen to just read that next chapter to find out what was going to happen instead of going to sleep.
Whilst the solution to the murder and side plots weren't all that great in the end it had some of the best courtroom interrogations I've read in a long time.
I'm surprised I didn't like this. The reader was pretty good, but I just didn't like the way the author wrote. There was too much back story dumping irrelevant data that detracted from the main story. I might have stuck with it longer, except I didn't like the main character enough.
I might not have gotten around to this otherwise, & that would be a shame.This book has been out for over 30 years, & made into a movie.
I'll just say it's as much a character study as it is a procedural crime story, as much the story of a messy relationship as that of a trial, as introspective as it is cinematic.Also, somehow I guessed the culprit early on - just a hunch.
But the book was so well-written that I gave up my guess early on & went along for the ride.
This is a terrific murder mystery, as well as being a fun legal thriller.
I wonder if that’s Hollywood or the way it was written?Happily, I enjoyed the book very much (in addition to getting the answer to my question – Hollywood cut one very small scene, which, if included, would have kept my eyebrow firmly in place, but which, honestly, to anyone but a lawyer is really not needed).
The movie does an excellent job of rendering the story, but if you want to delve a little deeper, this book will deliver.Highly recommended to lovers of legal thrillers!True rating: 4.5 stars.
At first, the book starts out as brash, crude and offensive at times because of the 'cop talk' banter.
I am glad I hung in there because this book ended up being one I could not put it down if I tried - it was a real page turner!
The author writes in the manner that cops & criminals speak, in all truthfulness, yet has a remarkable ability to dive into the deepest of emotions, intentions and observations - so much so, that I actually double checked to be sure it really was a man doing the writing!
I met Scott Turow when he came to visit my college to promote "Presumed Innocent", which I thought was a great book at the time.
Both of them were inevitably compared to each other because of their courtroom settings and knowledge of the legal profession, but Turow was generally trying to do something different than Grisham.
It's Turow's details (his naturalistic dialogue, his attempts to flesh out minor characters, his reflections into the darkness of the human condition) that I appreciated more from a writer's perspective and that I probably recall better than the actual plot, which was, if I recall correctly, a seemingly run-of-the-mill whodunnit.
3  stars. Some parts very good, I was eager to know what would happen. Other parts average.STORY BRIEF:Married prosecutor Rusty is accused of murdering his former lover. The first third of the book is what happens prior to the indictment. The last two-thirds is primarily the trial. It’s told in first person by Rusty.REVIEWER’S OPINION:This did not have the typical bad guy killer. I liked the unusual plot and motivations. I saw the movie several years ago and I remembered who did it, which was th
Some parts very good, I was eager to know what would happen.
Other parts average.STORY BRIEF:Married prosecutor Rusty is accused of murdering his former lover.
The first third of the book is what happens prior to the indictment.
But other things were very different between the movie and the book.
It seemed too drawn out, getting to know various characters: lawyers, cops, wife, lover.
Then when Rusty was indicted for the murder of Carolyn I was frustrated.
I liked the ending for Rusty.
For someone like me, I’d recommend reading the last chapter (40) first, then go to the beginning and read the whole book.
I recently re-read this, and it's still wonderful. The writing is sharp and brooding, and the plotting is superb.
I must admit that I saw the movie first, then read the book. But the book is so much better. I love the fact that Turow is a lawyer writing about the law; he knows his stuff. Even taking that into account, Turow does not weigh the reader down with too much legalese, something that adds to the book's success. This novel was the first that I read of this author: but definitely not my last. 4★
Narrated in first person, the book takes us through Rusty’s indictment and trial, where he has to deal for the first time with being on the other side, and of course, the murder mystery itself.
But the trial itself and the murder mystery made the book a pretty good read for me.
It was in fact when the trial began that I really started to get drawn into the book, and didn’t want to leave off.
Is it political, personal, or has Rusty stumbled onto something in the course of his investigation?
Becuase the killer is, suprise surpise, his wife, and because he wanted to avoid having to end with her confessing her crime to the courtroom, Turow decided to end the trial abruplty, through the use of that infamous 'B-file'.
This was a great read. There were a couple of issues that made me cringe and wish I had fast-forwarded (view spoiler)[ the little boy abused by his mother and the CPA who went to prison (hide spoiler)], but I was engrossed for most of the book. I listened to it via Overdrive and I think the narrator was very good, especially as Sandy. I look forward to the next book in this series - it is about Sandy and his family.
البريء المفترض رواية إثارة قانونية ممتازة، حصلت على الجزء الثاني منها والذي صدر بعد سنوات طويلة بعنوان (البريء) من معرض الرياض الفائت، جريمة قتل بشعة تذهب ضحيتها محامية جميلة ويتهم بالجريمة زميلها وحبيبها السابق، يضعنا سكوت تورو على حافة الترقب، ما الذي حدث؟ هل ارتكب رستي سابيتش الجريمة فعلاً؟ أم هو بريء وهناك مؤامرة ضده، استطاع تورو إبقائي في الظلام حتى الصفحة الأخيرة.
Reading Presumed Innocent with an eye to joining the profession gave it a certain air as well.Now after years as an entirely different sort of lawyer, the detective work, legal technicalities and procedural law aspects continue to delight me.
Though I've read the book and watched the movie and am vaguely aware that a twist is sure to come, Presumed Innocent draws me in as though it were completely new.
I have a very different reaction to the book -- years later and after close to 15 years studying and practicing law, I find that Presumed Innocent has grown to be even more gripping and entertaining.
Presumed Innocent is one of those landmark books that really demonstrated to readers what a legal story, a "law novel" was actually capable of doing.
Turow's work in this debut novel is so far above John Grisham's or Steve Martini's popular entertainments of legal "thrillers." In this first novel, Turow really demonstrates the full reach and complexity of the human soul under duress.
Instead his other books -- although very, very good -- seem to dwell too much on the surface fabric of the legal world without getting into the warp and weave of what makes human beings love and learn, hate, and long for each other.
Once you realize that half this novel can be skipped, as it is useless exposition about characters the author fails to make sympathetic in the first place, it becomes a much shorter read.
(I'm sure Turow would say it's the character speaking and not the author, but they are one in the same) My final complaint with the book is that around 1/3 of the way into it I thought, "He'd better not end it that way," and sure enough he draws this winding course just to bring things back to a terribly cliched, Law & Order ending, though without any of the talent or ability of the television writers.
Excellent, excellent, excellent. Even if it was saddled with a typical denouement. Still excellent.
A famous novel I had been meaning to read since long, Presumed Innocent didn't disappointment me. It is a complex, multi-layered murder-mystery cum court-room-drama that hooked me from the start to finish. Though I had some trouble with the meandering narration, especially that dealing with the narrator's thoughts and feelings, in the end, I felt the satisfaction of having read something good.
I would ordinarily go with 2 stars on a "I don't love and I don't hate it' book but for a couple of reasons I lift this one to 3.
The 'voice" of the story telling character was at least at first interesting.
I think there were a couple of problems for me here.
(view spoiler)[ When our hero was telling his psychiatrist about his obsessive love/infatuation with the victim it went on, and on, and on, and on, and on........and on.
(hide spoiler)]There's also another problem at least for me.I saw the movie.
Read Again 07/03/16 for Maze mystery book group.
This book came out in 1987.
At that time (and since) I was keeping track of my reading, however this does not appear on any list I have.
But I remembered who-dun-it.I have been a fan of Scott Turow's writing since 1981 when, just before entering law school, I read his "One L" -- a fantastic book.
He is not only a greatly successful trial attorney, but writes a damn good thriller as well.
355: "The Saints' [an urban street gang] would make some sociologist a reasonably good dissertation.' See "Gang Leader for a Day".
An amazing first novel: melancholy, atmospheric, a first person unreliable narrator, a plot that unspools masterfully.
I had read two minor Turow novels before this one, so I was familiar with one of the minor characters (Turow sets his stories in the fictional Kindle County, and familiar faces pop up from book to book) and Turow's intriguing writing style: outside the courtroom, he tends to narrate in a poetic voice that employs an educated and precise vocabulary that usually stops just short of being pretentious, while the courtroom scenes pulse with a rhythm that appreciates the drama inherent in a real trial without sensationalizing events past what a real lawyer would believe.
The brutal murder of coworker, Carolyn Polhemus, has unnerved chief deputy prosecuting attorney, Rusty Sabich.
But things go from awkward to shocking when Rusty is arrested for Carolyn’s murder.I’m probably one of the last people to read Presumed Innocent, and I’ve never seen the movie.
I liked the story of this terribly conflicted man on the verge of losing everything he values.
For readers who like long, reflective books that incorporate highly tense and dramatic courtroom scenes (arguably the best part of the book), this is a great read.
There are times when I read a paragraph again, not because I didn’t understand it but because the author uses language so beautifully.
Scott Turow obviously delights in the use of the English language.
Such delight would be wasted if he didn’t also come up aces in the plot and character department.
By the time I needed to figure out who did what, I knew who was who.This book is a courtroom drama and it predictably spends most of its time in the courtroom or preparing for the courtroom.
By the end of the book, I had just barely figured out ‘who-dunnit’ – just barely.
Brilliant. A classic. Read it. The movie was very faithful to the novel, so if you've seen it, the ending's blown for you. If you haven't seen the movie you're very lucky to have one of the best mysteries ever written waiting for you.
I recently re-read this favorite book because it is so well written and expertly plotted. It has also been made into a terrific movie, starring Harrison Ford, that I have watched a number of times. It is one of those books that I try to emulate in my writing.
An excellent murder mystery novel that keeps you guessing to the very end. Well written with strong characters and lots of twists and turns.Kept me interested throughout.
