https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1226156.The_Wall
I have a bunch of old mystery paperbacks and grabbed one the other day and began reading it.
So far, all of the MRR mysteries I’ve ever read follow this pattern: members of a wealthy family in financial distress come to stay at their summer home out of necessity and someone connected to the family is murdered.
Lots of people wanted to kill her—particularly Arthur and a mysterious man identified only as “L.”Because this book was written almost a century ago (!), some patience is required regarding it.
If you’re looking for an older, more genteel murder mystery, try a Mary Roberts Rinehart.
It fits the era of when this book was published and it just has a way of grabbing your attention.Much like The Swimming Pool, this book is narrated by one person after the detailed events have already passed.
Marcia Lloyd, our narrator, is a young woman who has come out to open Sunset House for the summer season.
She's scared and nervous, not the way Marcia is used to her being like.
When the stalemate ends days later with Juliette missing, Marcia and Arthur are anything but joyed.
Nobody liked the woman and most women would have gladly killed her for the way she went after their husbands.
It is very well described and the actual criminal is so little mentioned and so well covered up that it would take more than an ordinary detective to discover the actual murderer.
The characters are beautifully described and especially that of the hero, Allen Langdon Page.
In each chapter, there was always a clue, or a little incident mentioned that gave a kind of mystery to the whole book leaving you in such a suspense that at the end, you're about ready to burst with excitement.
(view spoiler)[It ends by Marcia, the heroine marrying Allen, the hero.

Early Bird Book Deal | Sticks to the formula, but still one I liked | This was pretty straightforward, mysteries of the time wouldn't have allowed certain characters to be guilty, so the red herrings were clear and the guilty party (and motive) weren't hard to suss out. But somehow I enjoyed this more than some of her others. Could be simply because it was paced better, or because the narrator was less antagonistic toward the police. Whatever the case, it was enjoyable.
A true mystery.I have read several books by this author and have not been disappointed. This one really had me trying to guess who was doing what and why. It is a different read from books that are written now. It is always good to go back to another time.
Mary R RinehartThis is the first book I have read of author, Mary R Rinehart. I enjoyed this book. It kept me interested in "who done it" and I did not figure it out until the end of the book when the sheriff told the main character who the killer was
Over the WallExcellent! It's always such a real pleasure to read one of Ms. Rinehart's books. She was one of the first authors I read so very many years ago, and she never disappoints. If you have not read her novels be sure to pick up one. You are sure to become a fan.
ClassicI heard of Mary Roberts Rinehart, on course, but had never read her. I am so glad that I picked up this book! They call her the American Agatha Christie, but if this book is any indication, she puts Agatha to shame. Can't wait to read more!
I like a good mystery.Story develops slowly, but keeps you engaged. The final wrap up was a surprise, but after all the facts were know it was logical. Putting a puzzle together without knowing what the picture looks like. When that final piece is found it all makes sense.
Though dated a good yarn.
I have read others by this author and love her. I had the who figured out but the why surprised me. Love all the historic aspect since it was written in 1938. Enjoyed it.
Mary Roberts Rinehart is one of my comfort reads. This book was as enjoyable as all of the others I've read.
This book was a bit long with too much detail that wasn't needed. However, it did have a very surprise ending.
This is a great old mystery, loved it!
Or a complete stranger?Mary Roberts Rinehart (1876-1958) was a prolific author perhaps best remembered for her mysteries; she was at one point known as “the American Agatha Christie.” This book is an example of the “Had I But Known” school of mystery writing, where a character (usually female) has incomplete information, or fails to grasp the significance of the information she has, and makes blunders that cause the mystery to be harder for the investigators to solve.Marcia often mentions bits from further along in the story–“I did not know then who Juliette had seen in the town” and fails to get clues to the sheriff in a timely manner because she doesn’t realize they are clues.
A good, old-fashioned mystery.Mary Roberts Rinehart published her first book (THE MAN IN LOWER TEN) in 1906 and she was a prolific and popular author for almost five decades.
It's not one of her very best, but it's a solid effort and well worth your time if you like Rinehart's style (and I do.)Like many of her mysteries, this one is narrated by a young woman whose once-wealthy family regularly left their luxurious New York City townhouse to spend warm months at a large ocean-front summer home.
According to a booklist I maintain, I had already read this book.
This time out I think I may have made an error on my list.
I took my time to enjoy the mystery and the setting.
Written in the 1930s and set at a New England lake resort, it takes place on the property of one of the number of estates.The ex-wife of one of the long-time property owners is murdered.
Sifting through the real clues and the red herrings it a slow but necessary task.The twists and turns kept me reading and thinking about the story trying to solve it myself.
La trama, seppur non originalissima reggerebbe ma nell'insieme l'ambientazione , la lunghezza, lo stile narrativo non sono di stimolo alla lettura.
A noi europei del XXI secolo appaiono paradossali alcune convenzioni sociali di una america "bene" di inizio secolo (ovviamente il XX) la protagonista improvvisa una limitata "indagine parallela" (dettata più dal romanzo rosa che si delinea fin dalla prima pagina che da un reale desiderio di improvvisarsi detective) e nel romanzo troviamo un po' di tutto, da strani fenomeni inspiegabili a sedute spiritiche di affetto.
I personaggi non sono delineati e studiati nel carattere come quelli a cui ci ha abituati la gran dama Agatha Christie e forse è per questo che i suoi gialli continuano ad appassionare anche ai nostri giorni!
Typical Rinehart book of the "Had I but Known School." I happen to love them though. She can really spin a tale introducing us to interesting characters and her endings are always twisty and not quite what you expected. Despite the fact the book is over 75 years old you still find yourself quickly turning the pages to see what happens next.
Rinehart was a masterThis book is really a compelling read, keeps you interested the whole way through. Only the second book i have read by her. Truly the American Agatha Christie.
I LOVED this book! Kept me interested and guessing the whole time (and I was wrong about who the culprit was) I would read this again...and probably will in a few years.
Great story -- written in 1938 so no extra fluff, just who done it. And I never guessed.
A fabulous example of the "Had I but known..." school of writing. It is hard to resist Mary Roberts Rinehart, she did it so well. In fact, I can't help but wonder if she invented it!
The story went on a little long, but a reasonably intriguing mystery.
Too many motives. I finished the book. I really didn't enjoy it. Too many motives. Unrealistic plot. Had to re-read too many chapters.
I've loved this book since I was a teenager, but reading it really had an impact once we moved to MDI, ME. I then realized the setting for the book was familiar territory.
So far, my favorite from this author.
A rather slow read.
A little long, but mostly satisfying. Figured out the culprit, but not until the end. Open Road continues to be my beloved.
