https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38355410-elevation
But  Elevation didn't even feel like a King story to me.The characters in this story are such one-dimensional stereotypes.
Unlike some readers, I like that King is political in his books and I have no problem with him dropping in a Trump insult or two, but the political message here felt forced and poorly-done."Why can't we all just get along?" is a sweet message - and perhaps one we need right now - but it needs a better story and fewer stereotypical characters to save it from being too sentimental and contrived.
After a couple of recent monsters (both size of book and characters within), King gives us a novella that reads quickly and could easily been a part of a short story collection.
In fact, I think it is considerably shorter than several of the novellas in his collections like Four Past Midnight and Different Seasons.
It is a good little story, but you really cannot automatically send King to the Horror category anymore!
In fact, I see that The Outsider was nominated in the Mystery and Thriller category.
Feel-good novel of the year?
Here Stephen King steps aside from horror to write a poignant little novella on unity, tolerance and rising above the fray.
Anybody want to start a discussion?As an aside, I feel the audio version is a must.
Stephen King narrates it himself and the added personal touch enriches the experience.
Also, the audio version includes a bonus short story called Laurie (also read by King) that was published for free on his website a while back.
It's an okay story, not amazing on its own, but meshes well with the themes of Elevation.
IMPORTANT UPDATE: the fact that this won this years goodreads choice award for horror, when this book is NOT a horror story by any means (!!!!!), is the biggest scandal of 2018.
dont @ me.
for me, the story is very bland.
i mean, i guess i could understand if this was included in a collection of short stories, but i just didnt see much that justified being published as a small standalone for $19.95.
but at least its short and added a count towards my reading challenge for the year.
so i guess theres that.
To make things even weirder, he weighs the same in and out of clothes, no matter how heavy they are…When I'm reading a book, and because my memory is terrible, I will usually make some observations and reminders in the Notes section of my iPhone which are very helpful when I go to write my review.
New releases are great when they're so regular, but I'd honestly rather wait and just buy a collection!This is slightly SPOILERY so beware of you haven't read Elevation yet, but I had seen a few reviews where people had complained about the inference that "Oh these two poor lesbians needed help from a straight white male" and I honestly did not view it in that way AT ALL.
I’m not going to mess around with this one: me and King are completely through.
I’m going to keep my review short and simply say that he doesn’t work for me.
I hate the way he writes.
I hate the way he puts sentences together and I hate the way he forms characters.
I don’t get on with him.
It’s not this book, it’s just King in general.
(Postscript – if you recommend a book of King’s in the comments section I won’t listen.
I will not try anymore, life’s too short to read authors you don’t like.)
I'm probably at 3.5 stars or a little higher, so I rounded up.When I decided to read Stephen King's new novella,  Elevation , at around 11:00 p.m. last night, I will admit I wondered what I was thinking. Would my reward for checking out King's latest be a nightmare or two?I needn't have worried. While  Elevation  is a little eerie, it's more a story about interpersonal relationships, about how one small action can ripple and truly make a difference in the lives of so many. And while King is a ma
While her wife is friendly, she is icy cold—and isn't interested in anything Scott has to say, even if he's trying to be hospitable or helpful.Little by little, Scott realizes what a difficult battle these women face in a town that doesn't mind if they "keep to themselves," but the fact that they say they're married, and want to be part of public life—well, that just won't do.
As Scott confronts his own prejudices and tries to help the townspeople realize how backwards their thinking is, it actually causes more tension—until he makes a split-second decision during the town's annual 12K race, which changes everything.Scott's own problem doesn't go away; in fact, it starts escalating.
I knew it was a novella but I wasn't temped to read more about it.I read the inside flap in the car on the way home from the bookstore and my heart sank a little."but the people of Castle Rock want no part of a gay married couple, and the place is in trouble."Oh no.To be perfectly honest, I've grown a bit weary of Stephen King and Joe Hill's political commentary in their stories.
I'm crowning this book The Worst Thing Stephen King has Ever Published. Die-hard conservatives are going to hate ELEVATION because of the gender politics. SJWs are going to hate it because the LGBTQ characters in the book literally need a straight cis white man to help them win. Everyone else will hate it because it's god-fucked boring.In summation: This tone-deaf pile of anal drippings reeks of desperation. Trying to please everyone usually does. Final Judgment: A CHRISTMAS CAROL but Scrooge is never bad, just misunderstood.
Going about his business, Scott learn that his neighbours, Deirdre and Missy, are being ostracised by the townsfolk of Castle Rock.
The other characters in the piece, particularly Missy and Deirdre, offer some interesting insight into 21st century tolerance, particularly in small towns, when it comes to bigotry.
King certainly offers up some inspiration where it is due, though I am not going to pound my drum and recommend that every reader rush to purchase the piece.
It’s a nice bridge between two books for those who want something a little different.Kudos, Mr. King, for a unique story that keeps the reader involved throughout.
You know the end of the world is coming when Stephen King writes stories that are only 160 pages long.
I don't know but it would make sense and if it's true, it's a mighty fine stand he makes.The story is set in the famous town of Castle Rock, where a married lesbian couple has settled and opened up a restaurant.
Oh, and because this is Stephen King, there is an element of weirdness in this story as well as great writing and infuriating characters after all.
I thought that this would be a nice scary Halloween story. I was wrong. Instead of feeling scared, I cried my eyes out.It was not what I expected, but it was so much much better.P.S. Any resemblance to the book Thinner by Richard Backman is purely coincidental.
A fine little story and a quick read.  It was, dare I say, uplifting?  Yes, uplifting and explosive, in its own small way.
I absolutely loved this book! Oh my god it was so heartwarming and heartbreaking. I don’t care if others end up not liking it lol I loved it! Read it in about 2 hours and it was perfection!

10/31/18: It has arrived! ((heart eyes)) It is the cutest little book EVER. The cover photo online does not do it justice. Adding to November tbr and it feels good!Original: I hate to wish away the month BUT is it October 30th yet!?!?
Well, it's been said that good things come in small packages.
I think it's one of those “time will tell” sort of answers.
What I can say is that I like Scott, our main character.
The mystery that is Scott's predicament is completely interesting, if a little too simplified.
We're not in this thing alone.
I think it's a good one to write about.
When the story first began I thought I was being talked down to.
By the finish, that thought had slipped my mind completely.
Gone like Scott in a 12K.Buddy read with my friend Dawn.
Elevation by Stephen King is a novella length fantasy read….
yes, that’s novella and Stephen King in the same sentence folks.
And before you ask, I am labeling this one a fantasy too as there’s nothing scary or horror about it either.Elevation centers around a character named Scott Carey who finds himself mysteriously losing weight, except he looks exactly the same.
But no, this story is more of a contemporary why don’t we all get along story that just happens to have supernatural weight loss at the center of it.
A little feel-good story about not judging books by their covers and finding a higher plane (either figuratively or perhaps in this case quite literally).
If you have a great library system like me or are a King completionist, it’s worth the little time it will take to read.
If you’re neither of the above, you might want to jump into your time machine and listen to some Depeche Mode instead .
Sidenote: Am I the only person who finds it strange that King felt the need to narrate this himself or that bookpushy “blog” posts have become commonplace from his people .
The calls are coming from INSIDE OUR CONSCIENCE!What’s most surprising about “Elevation” is that this would seem the perfect moment for King to twist the fury of his Twitter feed into a story of gnashing invective against President Trump.
Besides, as King told me a few years ago, he’s already written a novel about Trump: “The Dead Zone.”But if this is a new King, fans of his work will recognize an old motif borrowed from the 1984 novel “Thinner.” In that grim story, a lawyer is cursed with infinite weight loss — a kind of Jenny Craig nightmare inspired by King’s efforts to shed pounds.
I've been waiting on my copy for a few days (personal cross to bear!) so have read a lot of reviews.
Many people are complaining that King used this little story to stump his political views.
King may be trying to show people how shitty it is to discriminate, but that is not a political view.
O_oI read King for the people he draws.
Those of us that have been reading King forever will remember the fight King had with his publishers (Signet for that one) about the cost of the full, paperback collection of the serialized The Green Mile.
“Gravity is the anchor that pulls us down into our graves.”   Surprisingly philosophical, Stephen King has written an uplifting tale (hehehe) that many readers are enjoying. As the main character's body starts to lose the pounds that trigger gravity, everything he touches gets lighter too. Short and mysterious with a tone that inspires, this story can be easily devoured in one sitting. For readers who like to listen to their books, King self-narrates the audio version. As a bonus, the short-st
“Gravity is the anchor that pulls us down into our graves.”
Surprisingly philosophical, Stephen King has written an uplifting tale (hehehe) that many readers are enjoying.
As the main character's body starts to lose the pounds that trigger gravity, everything he touches gets lighter too.
Short and mysterious with a tone that inspires, this story can be easily devoured in one sitting.
For readers who like to listen to their books, King self-narrates the audio version.
As a bonus, the short-story Laurie follows.My favorite quote:“Everyone should have this, he thought, and perhaps, at the end, everyone does.
Hacía mucho que no leía nada de King.
Sus más recientes trabajos no me han llamado demasiado la atención, pero en Elevation intuí que me podría encontrar con algo diferente (y además es corto).
Esta es una novella que se aleja del terror o del gore; es más bien un relato simple pero muy humano, con altas dosis de entretenimiento y también de profundidad, que se lee en unas pocas horas y que, al dar vuelta la última página, te deja con un buen sabor de boca.
While reading a book can be an enjoyable group activity, ultimately the experience is ours alone, and at the time I chose to give this book 4 stars, even though I had issues.My main issue with this novella is that a straight man has to teach the ignorant masses of Castle Rock that the new married lesbian couple in town are people too, and that they deserve respect and admiration just as much as everyone else.
I know he has a lot of conservative fans, but I feel like the majority of his readers agree with a lot of his views.
Well, we're back in Castle Rock again, but not for a scary horror-type KING read this time around....although there is a Halloween dance with mention of a band named Pennywise and the Clowns..
It is a short and strange story of a big man with a cat named Bill living in a town weighed down by hate and prejudice....and poor Scott Carey, clearly a good man, has a big problem....an affliction with a countdown quickly approaching ground zero.
This lightweight, fast and magical read begins with the dedication, "Thinking of Richard Matheson" and thanks to Goodread's friend Bill has led me to another Scott Carey character in Matheson's 1956 classic, The Shrinking Man!
DNF. A bare-bones story as weightless as its main character. (Also, the stereotypical portrayal of conservatives and the problematic writing of the lead gay characters make this a total non-starter.)
An interesting little book! I recommend listening to the audiobook, which is read by King himself.
Since I have never been a fan of horror books so despite knowing King to be good at writing them, I never tried any of his books.
But recently, very unexpectedly, I started having a craving for the horror genre.
So, I actually have no idea nor can I compare this book of his to his other writings, rather I am gonna look at it individually.
Less judging and more living life to the full may be?Not a page turner to me but a pleasant book I enjoyed reading.Looking forward to reading more of King's books because I liked his writing style.
I am not in love with this book, I am not even in like.
I did not want a short little story that barely scratched my King itch.
They have the right to write whatever they want just like I have the right to read whatever I want and then review it accordingly.
This steaming pile of crap is my review.I was instantly disappointed when I opened the box that came in the mail but decided since I loved King so much that I would turn my mood down to a simmer.
In America's current polarized political climate in terms of human rights, discrimination and LGBTQ+ acceptance, Elevation is right on time but not the typical King horror story as usual.
I was expecting a usual "Maine boogeyman ft.
With undertones of King's earlier work Thinner, the 1982 comedy film Eating Raoul and a dash of love and suspense, Elevation is a wonderful and thrilling tale full of camaraderie and just enough unsettling and eerie atmosphere to characterize this as a true Stephen King work in every way.
The Maine setting is getting a bit predictable at this point but it still holds up and remains an endearing King trademark.
Even if you're not a horror fan, try out Elevation because you might be really surprised!
