https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/937020.A_Lantern_in_Her_Hand
Some of my favorite were:"Because the road was steep and long,And through a dark and lonely land,God set upon my lips a songAnd put a lantern in my hand."Here is another little gem she tells to her daughter,"You know, Grace, it's queer but I don't feel narrow.
I think if you can understand humanity...can sympathize with every creature...can put yourself into the personality of every one...you're not narrow...you're broad."And then here is one she tells her granddaughter:"You can't describe love, Kathie, and you can't define it.
I think that love is more like a light that you carry.
The face of America changed dramatically between those years, and Abbie's life changed alongside it.Part pioneer story, part pride of Nebraska lesson, part farming tutorial, part commentary about marriage - Aldrich ultimately uses Abbie Deal to explain the choices and sacrifices that faced a 19th century woman, or more specifically, a mother.Perhaps Abbie Deal's selfless mothering is the source of my distress.
And yet, in the end, Abbie sat as an old woman and felt satisfied that her five children were a fine product of a life's work.I recommend this book to every woman out there who enjoys tales of pioneer life or more importantly, empathizes with the difficult decisions made by women everywhere...always.
Bess Streeter Aldrich does for pioneer Nebraska, what Margaret Mitchell does for the war-torn South: makes you want to live there, no matter how bad it was.
It's not that the ending is so dreadfully sad, it's that the entire book makes me so emotional, and I keep fighting the sob session off until the end, when it all comes out in one gush.
She somehow reaches across the years and miles and touches on issues I care about, expresses feelings I thought only I felt, and makes me feel and care and--like I said--cry my eyes ugly.
I read this years ago and remembered loving it so much I suggested our new book club read it.
I do not know if the younger women in the group will like it but I loved it just as much, if not more, this time around.
"Oh, God, it's such little things we need help in,-such everyday affairs.""Always the Abbie Deals must be doing something for their children.""I don't know that we will do a great deal of good, but we won't do any harm, and much of life is an experiment anyway.""No, Abbie Deal would never get over being a mother."
"A PIONEER MOTHER: In her new novel, "A Lantern in her Hand," published by Appleton, Bess Streeter Aldrich says she has told many of the stories of the pioneers and the early days on the prairies which she heard from her parents.
We had the best time in the world.' Suddenly it seemed to me that I would like to catch a little of that spirit in a story sometime--that I wanted to write some day a pioneer mother who, although she endured all the hardships of those days, was sustained through it all by courage and love and a sense of humor.
It felt epic in places, sweeping over generations, and yet it contained small vignettes and tightly-wound themes that reminded me of a short story.Some of the themes included: * Choices.
The choice discussed in the summary between marrying the doctor or the farmer reminded me of the famous Frost poem, about two roads diverging in a wood.
That choice really did “make all the difference” to Abbie Deal — and to her posterity.
Oh, the sacrifices a parent makes for a child!
It made me think differently about my parents and grandparents.This was so much more than the typical pioneer story.
They all go like this...They head west, the woman doesn't really want to go, but she has no say, so she goes along anyway, promising to visit her family (she never does).
They finally make it west, the first winter is hard and someone dies.
The first crop is unsuccessful, and someone dies the following winter...slowly the crops might get a little more successful, but more than likely someone will die just about every other year and usually it's a child.
I know it's true to life, but, it's just not a life story I want to read I guess.
Loved it! The novel, which describes the whole life of a pioneer woman named Abbie, was beautifully written and sprinkled with simple yet profound thoughts. I got so attached to Abbie and Will that the book made me all emotional. The writing style was like a mix between L.M. Montgomery and Janette Oke, with something unique added in.Sometimes a span of 5 years or so was mentioned by only a brief paragraph, which I didn't particularly like, but the author made up for it with detailed descriptions of the times that she did include. Glad I read this! 4.5 stars.
I've raised my children, have grandchildren, worked hard (seemed hard to me, tho' almost laughable comparable to Abbie Deal...who's story more resembles my incredible mother-in-law's) done without, had dreams, given up on dreams.
So many of the musings Bess Streeter Aldrich's character has throughout her life resemble my own--some of the later ones I hadn't even given words to!What a marvelous, exhaustive, thorough reminding of what it took to settle & develop our country this book is to us that have it so very easy.
Will, your grandfather, is coming in to supper..and the children are all playing out in the yard.
Right from the introduction it is clear this is not going to be a sunshine and rainbows story. It doesn't shy away from the often painful realities of life, and death. Normally I'm not interested in the persevere-in-the-face-of-one-hardship-after-another genre , but for some reason I couldn't put this book down. This bittersweet story gives an interesting insight into how recently the struggle for Nebraska to become established occurred, and perhaps, why the motto of 'The Good Life' is so ardently pursued and cherished.
This was a very interesting book. It was more like I felt my way from cover to cover than read it. I don't even know if that makes sense but the way that the author painted the story - the images, the feelings, the experiences - was so amazing.This book was first published in 1928 and is about the settling of Nebraska. But it reaches further back and forward than just another pioneer story. It is also about family and a mother's heart, dreams, friends and reality.I would wholeheartedly recommend this book to anyone.
This was one of my mom's favorite books when she was a girl, and when I read it after she recommended it to me, it became one of mine as well. It is the story of pioneer woman who tries to maintain culture and civility in the ever changing and growing West.
I too, never thought I'd ever live in Nebraska, but like Abbie, a century later I'm thoroughly enjoying it.I've had trouble deciding what rating to give this book.
I felt like I was reading a lot of brief descriptions summarizing what happened over a 5 or 10 year period without going too deep into a plot or taking time to let me fall in love with the characters.
I seemed to like those scenes much more than the descriptions of the passage of time.I found it humorous how often the author described or mentioned Abbie's "tapered fingers".
I just finished this book and can tell it's going to be one that I reflect on the rest of my life.
I found myself admiring and learning from the main character, Abbie Deal, through all her stages of motherhood and grand-motherhood.
I think the strength I most admired in Abbie was her ability to hold her tongue when she heard her older children and grandchildren share differing opinions with her.
That one strength left the door open for all of her posterity to want to return to her time and time again and feel nothing but love from her.
The middle-to-end dragged a bit at times, but overall...MAH GASH.
The prevalent feeling I get from reading it is that here is a book throbbing with Life--with the joy, tragedy, injustice, and placidity of the human existence.
The main characters were extremely likeable (which is kind of rare for me, I've realized--I don't usually love the protagonists of novels!
The secondary characters are usually my favorites).
The WRITING was DELECTABLE.
Oh mah heavens above, that woman could WRITE.
And she made her characters relatable, her descriptions vivid, and her understanding of life and humanity really shone.

I was curious to read A Lantern in Her Hand, written by Bess Streeter Aldrich, who is kind of the runner-up to Willa Cather as a Nebraska pioneer novelist.
As with Cather's novels, I enjoyed reading about my (current) home state in the days when it was miles and miles of waving prairie grass and Lincoln was just a tiny town, a long wagon journey away from the characters' sod or log cabin homes, that no one could believe had been chosen as the state capital.
Also like Cather, Aldrich deals frankly with the basics of pioneer life: births, marriages, deaths, and usually lots and lots of hardship in between.
Well,  that  was depressing. I might try to write a full review later, because there were some things I genuinely appreciated...
It's the story of a young girl around the turn of the 20th century, who has all these big girlish dreams of becoming a beautiful singer, a painter, a writer--she just has this "feeling" that she is going to grow up to be something special.
But, each of her dreams is carried out by one of her children--one becomes a painter, one a singer, one an explorer etc etc.
There are a couple of really beautiful and heart breaking scenes near the end where she watches her children go and and achieve their (her) dreams, and she has a little cry, born of pride, but also of sadness.
I thought it would just be a simple read to get through before reading the next and was not prepared for the profound truths about which this book speaks.These truths, choosing a spouse, raising your children, dying to self, were so clearly articulated through the fictional character of Abbie Deal.
But I was moved to tears by the lessons in this book.
And through my tears I was smiling at the realization that motherhood is the same now as it was a hundred years ago.
And the love between a husband can be the same if you are blessed with a spouse like Will Deal.
I absolutely loved this book!
I really loved how Abbie described the passage of time as being like the hands of a clock that never stops and like the wind that keeps blowing.
That is exactly how I view time as my own family grows and changes with new births and deaths.
Abbie Deal is the picture of a good mother, always putting her children first and looking out for their best interest with "a lantern in her hand." This is beautiful, sentimental book that has quickly placed itself on my list of all- time favorites!
Abbie Deal was one of the first pioneers to settle in Nebraska and these 251 pages give us a sweeping glance at the many things she witnessed and endured with an abundance of love for her family and unfailing charity for others. The only downside was that at times I wanted more than a sweeping glance.
What a beautiful book about the sacrifices mothers make. Oh I loved this book!
Most of the time it was tedious for me to read, only partly due to the fact that it was rather slow-moving.-- I felt it too strongly, related too well to the pain and work and love.
I did not love it, it was actually quite torturous to the point that I would have to put it down and read a fun, light book before feeling strong enough to pick this one up again.
You’ve baked bread…and pieced quilts…and taken care of your children.” Old Abbie Deal patted the young girl’s hand.
Favorite quote about motherhood: Abbie's youngest child Gracie just told her that her life had been so "narrow", because she never traveled much.
198, "You know, Gracie, it's queer, but I don't feel narrow.
I've seen history in the making...
But not every one who stays at home is narrow and not every one who travels is broad.
I think if you can understand humanity...can sympathize with every creature...can put yourself into the personality of every one...you're not narrow...you're broad."4.
She says that she still feels the same in spite the fact that her body is changing.
Favorite quote about aging on pg.
I really do appreciate all the hardships that the settlers and pioneers went through, but it was just the manner in which this story was told that bored me.
Everything falls through for poor Abbie, the main character.
It’s like she says “now I can do this, now everything is going well,” etc.—and then something really bad happens that crushes all her plans.
She could've traveled with her daughter, but she said she was too old.
In this spirit of persistent martyr-complex, Abbie is a wee bit insufferable at times.
However, even though they are written for kids, those books are so much better than this.
I love her depiction of death at the end of the book.
Such a beautiful story that shows the selfless love of a mother plowing through the struggles of life, all while trying to be an example of strength and joy to her children...probably played out in real lives many times over.Some of my favorite quotes from the book, said after losing her baby:"It's a fine love that a little bad luck can smother!
I think that love is more like a light that you carry.
Yes...I think that is waht love is to a woman...a lantern in her hand." How beautiful!
It is told from the viewpoint of Abbie Deal who through the course of the book matures from an eight-year-old whose family has recently migrated to Iowa into an “old lady who dies while the meat burned and the children played ‘Run, Sheep, Run”.
Then at the age of eighteen, Abbie faces a decision not uncommon at that time: Should she marry Ed Matthews, who wants to take her to New York for lessons, or Will Deal, who still toils the farm with his parents?
Even as she relinquishes her dreams of fame, she continues to have a lantern in her hand and a song in her heart.
"Love is like a light that you carry.
Then motherhood lights it and then duty...and maybe after that sorrow.
You wouldn't think that sorrow could be a light would you, dearie?
Yes...I think that is what love is to a woman...
a lantern in her hand."I loved this book.
There is much less detail and the book covers her entire life.
I learned to love this quick pace.
What Abbie reveals is that when you work hard a something whether it is building a life for your family or planting a garden....
I can really relate to this book at this time in my life.
The wind keeps on blowing and we can't grasp it, time keeps on ticking and we can't stop it.
The winds of time, pain, broken relationships and death cannot blow away my trust in God. The really nice thing about God is that He doesn't change.
Even when everything else in my life goes birzirk, God stays the same.
That's why I need to put everything I have into working for God, in His plans and perfect timing.Another thing that struck me about this book was this woman's unswerving devotion and self-sacrifice to her family.
