https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4588949-the-sorceress
Scott stays consistent with his storytelling.
I love the inclusion of Shakespeare and Billy the Kid in this one.
It was a fun read, but not too different than the rest.
There's no big surprises anymore, only a fun storyline.
I do have to say that Scott over uses the phrase "takes a deep breath." All his characters seem to be doing yoga.
lol.
I love all the places we visit as the reader and the battle scenes never disappoint.
This is a good series that delivers a fun fantasy for young readers.
I will keep on reading on.
Muy buen libro. Me gustó más que los anteriores. Este no se me hizo para nada pesado, hay más acción y escenas que me encantaron. Ya estoy ansioso por empezar el siguiente, del que no tengo dudas de que será igual de bueno, o quizá mejor.
Okay I know this has taken me forever, but this book really felt like a step up from the first two. It looks like they stick with the same narrator from here on out though, which will be nice. The thing I love most about these books is the interweaving of various historical figures-- if not for them I would say this was a straight rip-off of PJO or HP or what have you. Very entertaining.
Michael Scott has created a perfect epic fantasy world filled with legendary characters.In order to to properly understand the plot, I would certainly reccomend you read the series in sequence starting with The Alchemyst, As you read through the series, I advise you to google the characters.Seriously, Who wouldn’t love a novel with a little bit of history?Here is one of many of my favorite lines in the novel.“I spend all my time trying to keep thoughts away and ignore them….But here you are, trying to remember your own life, writing your thoughts down so that you don’t forget.
I suddenly realized what it would be like not to know, not to remember.” — Michael Scott (The Sorceress)
✩ 4 Stars ✩ Holy buckets don’t miss that epilogue!!
About the time my eyes gloss over, I am reminded why I love this series.
I also don’t care for the twins, Josh or Sophie.
It’s one of those series that I love, then put down for way too long, and then wonder why I didn’t just finish it already!I still absolutely LOVE Perenelle and I hope there is a lot more coming from her as the series continues.
She’s cunning, but I’m holding out for her spectacular moment that has been given a lot of foreshadowing...
But there are so many problems that take away from that idea or concept that it makes it hard to continue, so I’ll start with what I like before going in to what I dislike.What I like – The concept that some of our histories most influential characters are immortal and have been working in the shadows along side the characters of our myths fighting our nightmares is thrilling.
Not only does it feel like the author spends 7/8 of the book stroking of his English degree by restating the same facts over every chapter but he also puffs up the chapter count by ending one chapter and starting then next one right in the middle of a scene, staying in the same point of view and addressing the same idea.
I know I'm reading the books with only a few days or week in between and they were originally written years apart and the reader had to be reminded.
(I'm guessing this is a plot point in a later book, but I'd expect one of the twins to bring it up.
That's not much time to become completely fluent, particularly in multiple dialects and in some "dead" languages that only a handful of people speak aloud.Also, it took Saint-Germane less than five minutes to teach Sophie the Magic of Fire.
Apa yang akan kalian lakukan?****Di buku ke tiga ini Scott perlahan mulai memasang puzzle untuk keseluruhan ceritanya yah walaupun belum terbentuk secara keseluruhan setidaknya mulai tergambar.
Tetap memasukan segala macam mitos, legenda ke dalam cerita mencampur aduk menjadi satu mebuat terasa seperti segelas "fruit punch".
Simbol-simbol yang tertera di cover secara tersirat menggambarkan cerita akan seperti apa.Mr. Scott kau memang pakarnya legenda dan mitos, selama ini kau memakai mitos dari daratan Eropa & Amerika.
Saya tantang kau untuk memasukan mitos dari daratan Asia.
Dan kalau dilihat dari cover Buku ke -4 "The Necromancer" ada simbol tulisan Asia, mitos negara mana yang akan kau ambil untuk petualangan Si Kembar?
Puno akcije, nadmudrivanja, pomalo ekspozicije a i upoznajemo par interesantnih novih likova.Na žalost knjiga ima par problme (bar za mene) koji se provlače kroz ceo serijal:- Likovi bi trebalo da su prepuni iskustva, lukavi i izuzetno pametni (tu mislim na besmrtnike) ali na žalost uopšte ne dobijam osećaj da su genijalni.
ali svu tu genijalnost uopšte neviđam na delu.- Magijski sistem je očajno objašnjen.
Nemamo jasne naznake kako to sve funkcioniše pa kada neko i nešto uradi uopšte nemaš osećaj oduševljenja ili zabezeknutosti a trebalo bi kada čitamo reakcije ostalih likova.-Flamel bi trebalo da je alhemičar.
We pick up where we left off: Dr. John Dee has torn Paris apart in his efforts to grab the immortal Nicholas Flamel and Sophie and Josh Newman, while Nicholas watches Paris' destruction and observes that the twins increasingly show signs of being the promised twins of legend.
With them both awakened, Dr. Dee doesn't need Nicholas Flamel alive.
The twins and Flamel eventually join up with Palamedes, an immortal Saracen knight and friend of Comte de Saint Germain, and William Shakespeare, Nicholas' former apprentice.
More of Purplycookie’s Reviews @:  http://www.goodreads.com/purplycookie Book Details: Title The Sorceress (The Secrets of the Immortal Nicholas Flamel, #3) Author Michael ScottReviewed By Purplycookie
Great third book of the series. The best till now in my opinion. A lot of action, new and very interesting characters...Review to come when I'll have a pc nearby.
Same problemos as the first two books... plotholes, weak characters, etc. etc.2 stars for Palamedes, who is one of the two characters I don't want to hit really hard in the head for stupidity. 2 stars for William Shakespeare, who is the second character I don't want to hit really hard in the head for stupidity.-2 stars because Josh is FIFTEEN and can't say irrevocably.That is all.
After reading the first two books, I had high expectations for The Sorceress, and yet again I am very glad to say I was not disappointed.
The elders must have them in order to take over the world again.The characters are still steadfast and true to each one of their causes.
The goodguys are protecting the twins and the badguys are protecting the elders.
There is a huge battle that is brewing and the countdown has started now that the twins have begun to feel and test their powers.
More of the same types of thoughts and complaints as with the previous book in this series. The plot, the action, the characters are great, but again with the telling rather than showing. It would be nice if everyone would stop just instinctively knowing everything. Some explanation of HOW they know so that I feel like I`m creating my own impressions rather than having them made for me would just be super.That said, again, its a series with good humor despite its sometimes over dramatic nature.
Some explanation of HOW they know so that I feel like I`m creating my own impressions rather than having them made for me would just be super.That said, again, it´s a series with good humor despite its sometimes over dramatic nature.
It´s a good contrast.
But for every time Scott switches things up, someone says something super cliche about what heroes are made from or about how there is no possible escape (right before they escape).
So I guess it balances out.Good plot, interesting stuff going down, and Scott keeps you jumping wondering what will happen next.
I'm definitely enjoying this series.
It is so creative.
Children need books that can encourage them to open the door wider into the reading world.
I love that about this particular youth fiction series.
It is different and unique.
This is the 3rd book in this youth fantasy fiction series.
The second one is my favorite so far.
I liked this one too, but it felt a little more explanatory.
That is not necessarily a bad thing, especially when the world created in this book, is so different than our current world.
I love the character development and was glad that the brother was less whiny.
This is quickly becoming one of my favorite series! Great settings, cool historical and mythological characters and action packed adventures. Pick this one up if you havent!
When this comes out, I am SO reading it! I love this series!
this book could have been half the size of what it was.. i love long books with good characters and an interesting storyline, but this one dragged on too long. for a lot of the book, almost nothing was happening to keep me interested.
In this third novel in The Secrets of the Immortal Nichalas Flamel series (following The Alchemyst and The Magician), twins Josh and Sophie are still on the run as the forces of evil are hunting them down.
Sophie's recently awakened aura and training with fire and stone along with Josh's new knowledge of warfare from Mars, they were barely able to escape the clutches of the magical immortal John Dee and his allies in the center of Paris at the end of the previous novel.
The Sorceress by Michael Scott is a really good book and probably my favorite continuation in the series.
I still love the constant use of historical events and people in the series as well as the introduction to Palamedes, William Shakespeare, and Billy the Kid. Scott, in my opinion, did a good job in putting all the historical information together to make the book a lot more interesting.
I really loved the introduction of Gilgamesh as well as him teaching the twins a new elemental magic.
I would recommend this book to people who like, fantasy, historical fiction, mystery, adventure/action, and a little bit of magic.
A good installment, but the ending seemed a little lacking.
As always Dee is an asshole.
I know you guys don't know them very well, but they've also saved your lives a couple times over, don't you think that makes them at least a little trustworthy?
Plus the other side is the DARK ELDERS, do they sound like your friends!?
Sophie isn't as bad, but her blind devotion to Josh also annoys me.
I don't like Josh much anymore.
Lastly, (view spoiler)[ WAS THAT LAST BIT WITH DEE AND THE SWORDS MEANING THAT THE TWINS OF LEGEND ARE FUCKING SWORDS!!!?!
(hide spoiler)]
2nd time--rereadI just love the larger-then-life characters to this series. Also its so action packed!
Kalau mau obyektif, aku akan berkesimpulan buku ini jelek.Alasannya?Jadi ternyata cuma dua hari (lagi) isinya buku ini.Kali ini perjalanan/pelarian si kembar dan Nicholas Flamel terjadi di London.
Dan seperti cetakan yang semata-mata jiplakan dari buku-buku sebelumnya sudah jadi, urutan kejadian-kejadiannya begitu berpola.Persis seperti buku ke-1 dan ke-2.Rombongan jagoan kita masih jadi pelarian yang dikejar-kejar Dr. John Dee sang magician (yang predikatnya gak tentu--kalau gak mau dibilang gak konsisten--dan sangat banyak sehingga terkadang dipanggil magician, lalu necromancer, juga sorcerer).Dr. John Dee dan Machiavelli sekarang ini ada di bawah tekanan berat dari para Tetua Gelap yang mengancam akan mencabut keabadian Dee kalau dia masih gagal juga.
In this third book of The Secrets of the Immortal Nicholas Flamel series, Nicholas Flamel, Josh and Sophie head over to London after narrowly escaping the evil John Dee and Niccolo Machiavelli in Paris.
I can't wait to read more about those blades in the future books.The twins also start to be more independent, now that they are powerful.
Now that the Dark Elders are convinced that Josh and Sophie are the Twins, they have started to gather to return to Earth.
I keep wanting to know more about what happened before humans set foot on this planet and I keep asking myself, how the Twins will use their powers.
فک کنم این از همه بهتر بود:-"اول اینکه شخصیت پرنل خودش خیلی جالبه.
کتابش هم خوب بود خوبیه جایی بود ک نویسنده داشت خودشو میکشت تا ی ارتباط بین خواننده و دی برقرار کنه.
خوب موفق نبود.
قبول دارم ملت تو کتاب خودشونو کشتن تا بگن کل جادو با تخیله اما من باید ی تشکر خاص از ویراستار عزیز کتاب بکنم ک معنای کامل تخیل رو با این دو جلد بهم فهموند.
رسما تخیل میخواس بفهمی چی میگه:|آخرش مث سپتیموس هیپ داشت تلاش میکرد داستانو تموم کنه.
من واقعا در انتظار ی کتابیم در اوووج داستانو تموم کنه:|اصن من چرا 5 دادم بهش؟ حقش هنوز 4.5 ـه:-خوددرگیر
Each book is basically an immediate continuation of the previous one, and is very easy to read one right after the other.
I am really enjoying reading them, which is allowing me to look past the writing which isn't the best.
However, I have noticed that the writing has improved from the first two.
Either way, I think these books are great and can't wait to read the next ones.
Really 4.5 stars.
Took off the half of a star for some of the writing, but the plot and characters are so cool that I don't even care how repetitive some of the writing can be!
I think this one has been the best of the three books, so far. Much better plot and deeper insight to the characters, old and new.
The Sorceress, By Michael Scott, is the next book in ther series, The Secrets of the Immortal Nicholas Flamel, after The Magician. After evading another disaster from the evil Dr. Dee and an ancient creature. The twins start to learn elemental magic. While Josh is behind his sister in magic, he's found something even more deadly, but will he be able to control it?I recommend this to fantasy lovers.
This book was excellent. It had thrills,twists,and overall a great storyline. You never know what is coming next. This book uses other myths to create a world of fantasy.
(Entah kenapa, saya membayangkan sosok Perenelle seperti Jean Grey di film X-Men).Masih seseru dua buku sebelumnya, Michael Scott membangun ketegangan dari awal sampai akhir, dan dengan cermat memotong cerita setiap kali ketegangan mulai memuncak untuk kemudian dilanjutkan di bab berikutnya atau berikutnya lagi.
Bagi yang mengikuti serial ini, pola tersebut sudah bisa terbaca sebenarnya, tapi toh tetap berhasil membuat saya penasaran untuk tidak berhenti membalik halaman sehingga hanya butuh dua hari untuk menamatkannya.Setelah bertemu Joan of Arc dan Machiavelli di buku kedua, terus terang munculnya manusia abadi lain di buku ketiga ini tidak lagi membuat saya terkejut.
