https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5061675-a-game-of-thrones-a-clash-of-kings
If Mr. T threw a punch at a bunch of letters, they'd fall into place as SONG OF ICE AND FIRE.
Over 1,700 pages through the Song of Ice and Fire series, and I am genuinely addicted. Having never read true fantasy/science fiction before, I was skeptical. . . but figured NPR's list of "10 books you probably haven't read, but should" wouldn't be wrong. Then. . . half way through Game of Thrones, the series began on HBO. I can't wait to watch it after I am done reading the series. By the time I make it through the next two montster of a books, hopefully Dancing with Dragons will be in paperback....
Having said that, I find this series to be compelling.
Dare I say I'm enjoying this more than the Lord of the Rings?
I do dare say it!!!
I love the complexity of the characters.
I like the fact that there isn't a lot of magic and crazy monsters.
The people are the monsters.
I find myself hating some of these characters and then a few chapters later feeling sympathy for them.
I like how each chapter switches who the narrator is.
The "good" characters suffer.
I could continue to rave about this series for hours, but will stop here.
I can't believe I had never read, nor even heard of, this book until this summer!
The story is somewhat like Lord of the Rings, only a thousand times more fun to read (I like the LOTR films, not so much the books).
The story's main conflict has many facets, and I found myself rooting for different "sides" at different moments--the "good" and the "evil" are fairly readily recognizable, but as in life, not everyone on either side quite fits the broad-strokes label.
I waited till this year to read Game of Thrones.
I finely picked up Game of Thrones just because of all the buzz the story was causing and HBO picked it up to make a show.Wow, I am swallowing my pride!!
The characters are very well developed and all seem so real, forced to make real hard chooses, even if there are life/death consequences, which make them even more real.
I have devoured t"Games of Throne" and now leapt head first into A Clash of Kings.
Only to read that King Jeffory still has Ned's head on a spike.
Lame. Unreadable.I question the author's interior life when he describes the orgasms of a 14 year old girl as her husband has forcible, non-consensual sex with her.
Signore, che parto! Un fantasy appassionante, anche se non per tutti, personaggi che mi fanno impazzire (in tutti i sensi), sangue, battaglie e atrocità, sesso e quant'altro. Tutto molto bello, però ho ufficialmente chiuso con le saghe/trilogie in volume unico :)
I think the author lost his story after the first book.
Author G.Martin wrote some excellent premises in book one.
Only the premise for one.Book two is 800 pages of lost, hungry, and beaten orphans, war, violence, violent rape, threats of rape, humiliation of women, drownings, kidnappings, hangings, sexual humiliation (men), and decapitation.
I won't be fooled again.I trusted this author to have a point.
The "stories" are a cover for blood lust writ large.
The novel is not told in the first-person but rather through an all-knowing author.
He hardly ever fails to remind that women are whores.
At first it is an interesting story and the multiple narratives are acceptable.
Later in the book the author throws out an unexpected plot twist and then shifts to completely unrelated narratives for a few chapters.
After reading the book for a while, I became painfully aware that the author's intent was to draw out this story as long as possible, hence the subsequent volumes.
I like books with multiple volumes but only if each volume isn't a cliffhanger.
This book is a blatant cliffhanger and reading it was frustrating.
The book is unnecessarily vulgar in several parts.
The second book took me over a year to finish and I am officially done with this series.
Besides the fact that these books do not have any business in the fantasy section (throwing in three dragons and one pathetic life spell amongst two 600-700 page books does not make a series "fantasy") these books were disgusting.
The entire society of these books is Patriarchal and raping women and children is a major theme.
The series does not have any kind of direction.
In the first book, I got only that Daenarys has reached puberty.
I got nothing from.
Yes. The book has a lot of content to take in, but it is mainly about different houses and powerful people fighting each other to sit on the mighty throne, while other danger approaches.
While fighting for the throne is more based on reality, there is the undead, called night walkers, Approaching north of the wall.
And people called the Nights watch guard to walls, form wildlings( scavengers) and others sorts of evil....One thing i liked about the book is that theres is really a lot of take in.
This book has great story and a huge roster of characters.
Not as full of as many twists and turns as the previous entry in the series, but still a fantastic read.
R. Martin is creating a new epic, and one I did not think I would be able to get sucked into.The characters are all growing within the confines of the story, with the exception of say Sansa and she is still my most loathed character.
However, there's still plenty of novels in the series in which to correct that.I'll be taking my sorbet of another book before launching into the next volume in this epic, but it's getting harder and harder to do so.
I just cannot understand how this book has received such rave reviews.
It is Harlequin Romance on crack.
With one exception, all the good guys are very good, all the bad guys are very bad and all the bit players are interchangeable.
If you can't remember who is who among the Sers, don't worry, they all get cut down in the end.
And the "love scenes"?
This guys has a fetish for women taken roughly and against their will....but then some come to love it.
Lemmings, step away from the cliff and from this book.
You definitely can't tell a book by its cover w/ this one.
Kinda boring cover- Not so, the book.
There are a wide wide range of people to fall in love with and a few despicable creeps to keep things exciting.
It's a combo, new to me, bringing a historical fiction feel to pure believable fantasy.
I went through the whole spectrum of feelings.
I did, and it was during a scene that was w/ people whose culture was so foreign and, in many ways, revolting to me.
There were a lot of really great cultural interweaving.
Fantastic!
And the rabbit hole goes deeper.
Without spoiling anything, I'll just say that this series is becoming more complicated and intriguing by the book.
At times it does feel convoluted, or at least, confusing.
I had to re-read some sections several times, and there were many more characters introduced, which is kinda overwhelming.
That said though, I can't stop reading.
This particular book had some major plot twists and revelations that have pulled me deeper into the series.
I have to see what happens next, how all of these characters paths cross, and where their roads will lead.
I picked this book up on a dare. Had no idea what it was about. After the first two chapters, I ran to my computer and ordered the next three books. I couldn't believe the depth or character and story that Martin put into this work. I firmly believe, and let's not get to carried away on the comments, that this series surpasses any other fantasy series out there. I know the LoTR followers will be distressed to hear this, but as far as creating worlds, Martin is in a league of his own.
I've been watching the TV series, and feared it would color or somehow negatively impact the reading experience. It didn't. Martin's imagination and cosmology are fascinating. Sadly, they are firmly rooted in real human behavior and politics. But that is what makes it all the more gripping. Occasionally a bit too much telling and not enough showing, but the plot twists and character development more than make up for this. Couldn't put it down.
Well done and close to the second season.Two down, and three or five to go.
Queste lotte di potere finiranno per coinvolgere (e travolgere) una casata in realtà molto lontana dagli intrighi di palazzo, quella degli Stark, il cui capofamiglia, Eddard, fiero Lord di Grande Inverno e Protettore del più settentrionale dei Sette Regni, verrà invitato dall’amico Re Robert Baratheon a seguirlo nella capitale e a divenire il nuovo Primo Cavaliere del Re, dopo la morte improvvisa (e sospetta) di colui che fino a poco prima aveva rivestito tale carica.
Absolutely AMAZING. Mr Martin is a god. Read the entire book in 6 days because I couldn't put it down.
George R.R. Martin apresenta-nos um mundo complexamente rico e fantástico nos volumes I(A Guerra dos Tronos) e II (A Fúria dos Reis) do livro Das Crônicas de Gelo e Fogo.Martin recheia seu vasto universo medieval de reis, rainhas, donzelas, cavaleiros, guerreiros, políticos, príncipes, princesas, acrescentando, ainda, pitadas de fantástico com ogros, dragões, mortos-vivos e bruxaria, tudo bem ao gosto da Idade Média.Não se pode deixar de admirar a imaginação fértil do autor a cada descrição de cenário, de reino, sensações inerentes à natureza humana ou, até mesmo, nos detalhes de uma simples refeição, com peculiaridades típicas de cada região, linhagem ou casa.Enfrentei, todavia, alguns problemas com a leitura.
George R.R. Martin wrote in a straightforward style—each chapter highlighting a specific character whom the reader follows throughout the entire book.
Though each chapter is written in first-person (a POV that I generally dislike), the characters were developed with depth and sincerity.
Unlike some characters in first-person narratives, these have a feeling of authenticity because of their multiple layers.
The story is far from formulaic, and caught me off guard at particular moments when strong characters were killed off unexpectedly.The book plays off as historical fiction—until the fantasy elements come into play.
We really get introduced to the different religions of this world, how they operate, which I really like.We expect for an author to expand on the world in the second book, and although we still haven't gone south, we get some pretty cool new stuff.
Had to get geek out with my "art of" calendar a bit.Action - plenty, and major battle for King's LandingMagic - Only a little, but it's creepy Melisandre sorcercy and some pretty impressive alchemyCreatures - Dire wolves, dragons, and some mammothsCool places - Seven hells, yesCharacters - PlentyYeah, I've heard the whining about too many characters.
How do they come with this alternate world with all these complex story lines filled with war, love, hate (lots of hate!) revenge and yes, some hope?
George Martin has done it all-blending the world as we know it with a new (really old) world of knights, castles, armor, lords and ladies, sword fights and war.
But, you will get totally wrapped up the the storylines and you will be able to feel the battle scenes, and cheer people that sound like they are fighting for the right now, but could very well turn out to have fooled everyone, even you by their cold, scheming ruin of a person, a family, or a kingdom.
A fabulous book and story...the first of five in the series!
The amount of characters in this book and the detail in the plot is amazing.
At the back of the book, there is a huge list of characters in the main households in the book, but that still doesn't cover all of them.
Still, it's hard to forget the main characters.
This book is about the characters, their households and the way they interact with each other.
It's hard to describe the plot much more without spoiling itm but I highly recommend this book.
Just beware that it is very long, and I wouldn't recommend it if you don't intend to buy the other books in the series (you'll see why when you finish the book).
I was very excited to spend some time with the characters I liked from the first book in this series, and a few new ones, and liked seeing how the various factions in support of the various possible kings (as well as the non-faction up on the Wall in the North) were developing their strategies and plots.
Grade: ARecommended: I would say the series is good for people like myself, people who like long, rambling epic stories, but are vaguely suspicious of fantasy novels with too much magic crap in them.
I am so familiar with all of them...I feel them in my heart and feel their pain as well Oh my :(Clash of kings A Clash of Kings picks up where A Game of Thrones left off; after the death of King Robert Baratheon and the execution of Eddard Stark,I do have to say that A Clash of Kings—indeed, any doorstopper fantasy series—can be fatiguing.
It’s a well-built story—an assault on the capital forms the solid climax—but it’s so complex (although never too complex) and there’s so much of it that I’d advise readers to pace yourself.
Like some war-themed books I've read, I found my eyes skipping some lengthy descriptions and going directly to conversations.
Sometimes, I couldn't help but wish "A Game of Thrones" has an "Atlas of Middle-earth" counterpart.
(Or is there?) What's similar to my experience with reading the first book is that I still have my own favorite chapters, thus admitting to having my own favorite characters.
Maybe the book is bringing out the violent side of me.
Like most great writers, he makes you a part of the world he created that sometimes you wish you were really a part of it.
I read all 694 pages in four days and it was so great that I almost didn't mind that it wasn't on my Kindle as I got this in book form from my library.
My four year old son breaking his leg didn't slow me down (no, I wasn't reading when it happened, he was wrestling with his brothers) because I read it while I rocked him for hours as he slept.
It is that good.
When I see comments in other reviews saying this series is "Just way better than Lord of the Rings," I am astounded.
I like this series, but I have realized I am not emotionally invested with any of the characters, with the possible exception of Tyrion, and he’s supposed to be an antagonist.
Where is the fellowship?
I don’t know whose side I’m on.
Everybody is everywhere, other than together.
Would I recommend this series?…hmmm.
Is it better than The Lord of the Rings?
Comparing this series to Lord of the Rings is about the same as comparing a mustang to Secretariat.
