https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/774001.Amelia_Bedelia
Recently read this to my daughter, and I almost forgot how much I enjoyed these books as a child. Amelia Bedelia -- such a literal character -- always taking every word at face value, never able to read between the lines...and I still find her well-intentioned antics heartwarming and hilarious! My daughter seems to agree. Great childhood read!
Once upon a school day, I think when I was in second grade (so this would have been pre-1980, I believe), we went on our bi-weekly library outing.
The librarian had us sit in front of her in the storytime area and whipped this book out.
That may have been when I realized my love for wordplay.I don't think I'd ever laughed so hard in storytime in my life.That librarian read us a lot of good books (Cloudy With a Chance of Meatballs, Charlotte's Web(that was in third grade and it took several weeks to finish), and others) but this one is the one that stuck with me for years.
These books were included in the nightly read-a-thon my children put me through each night. We loved the giggle fest Amelia Bedelia gave us. She was supposed to dust the furniture so Amelia Bedelia applied dusting powder! 🤣 c’mon that’s funny! (Or maybe I just have childish humor)🤷🏼♀
These books were included in the nightly read-a-thon my children put me through each night. We loved the giggle fest Amelia Bedelia gave us. She was supposed to dust the furniture so Amelia Bedelia applied dusting powder! 🤣 c’mon that’s funny! (Or maybe I just have childish humor)🤷🏼‍♀️
Four stars today, adding a fifth star because of how much I loved this as a child.And it's still hard not to like Amelia Bedelia.
It's hard to really be mad at her for doing what she thought was right, though she makes a mess of things (I'm sure many kids can relate to that!).
I always loved her ruffled lacy apron and blue hat with the pink flowers on it.
It was so much fun to be "in" on Amelia Bedelia's mistakes--I was a child who always loved words and the wordplay here was such a delight!
4.5 stars I have a confession to make: even though I had read the “Amelia Bedelia” books when I was little, I had never read the very first book in the “Amelia Bedelia” series, which has surprised me since I thought that that would be the first thing that I would have read (but, I was a kid back then and I just read whatever was put in front of me). So, I finally got the chance to read the very first book “Amelia Bedelia” by Peggy Parish along with artwork by Fritz Siebel and I was pleasantly s
So, I finally got the chance to read the very first book “Amelia Bedelia” by Peggy Parish along with artwork by Fritz Siebel and I was pleasantly surprised by this introductory book into the popular “Amelia Bedelia” series!The story starts off with Amelia Bedelia starting her first day of work at the household of Mr. and Mrs. Rogers and Mrs. Rogers left Amelia Bedelia a list of things she must do around the house while the Rogers are out.
Amelia Bedelia!! This book seriously stressed me out as a child. It was funny, but I was concerned about how much she always messed up!
As an adult, a little bit less because of the repetitiveness in the read aloud.
However, I still would happily continue reading this to my little one.Amelia Bedelia is hilarious fun.
My daughter is a little young for understanding all the puns, but each time I read it I giggled at parts and told her why it was funny.
Her asking me to read the book 5 times in a short period of time lets me know she really enjoys it.I love Amelia as much as when I read my first Amelia Bedelia book.
This is the first book of the Amelia Bedelia series and I can't believe it's over 50 years since it was written! The illustrations are cute and she is so funny!It's her first day at work as a maid for the Rogers family. They gave her a list of chores to complete when they go out, but she takes everything so literally that she messes all up! They end up "forgiving" her because she made the most amazing lemon pie.I giggled when she "dressed the chicken"... in a cute little jumper!
This was one of my favorite childhood books. This also explains a lot about me and my opinon on the English language.
Silly but cute.. My little one liked it.
Amelia Bedelia has cracked me up for most of my life! I remember this one being read to me long ago, and I just laughed hysterically along with my teacher as the mishaps were explained. It's an incredibly effective and creative idea by Peggy Parish to help teach the difficulty and silliness of our language. There's certainly no better character to stumble through the misinterpreted nuances of it than Amelia Bedelia!
Later in life, when conversation turned to books one read as a child...and after exhausting my fond memories of Frog and Toad...I recalled this character."Who?""Amelia Bedelia...""You're pronouncing it wrong. It's Uh-mee-lee-ah Buh-dee-lee-ah. Hold on.""Where are you going?""Making sure I didn't miss taking my pill."So, note: "Amelia Bedelia" doesn't rhyme with "Oh-Hell-yeah Regalia".
Amelia Bedelia, written by Peggy Parish and illustrated by Fritz Siebel, is an easy-to-ready story with a mixture of dialogue, action, and different text (written cursive and typed text).
Amelia Bedelia performs every item on Mrs. Rodger's list exactly as it says-even going to extra to bake a Lemon Meringue pie.
The illustrations in this book are sketch-like, cartoon-ish, and roughly generalized according to actual dimensions of objects, that being said, Siebel has a one-of-a-kind portrayl of Amelia Bedelia.
Siebel creates a wonderful image of Amelia Bedelia.
This book is a great way to expose new readers to dual meanings of words and how misinterpretations of intended meaning can create conflict.
Overly literal maid Amelia Bedelia begins a new job and gets everything wrong.One of the joys of parenthood is that it serves as a motivation to pick up exceptionally good children's classics that one has heard of, but missed during one's own childhood.
And a second joy is sharing them with an eager and appreciative audience.
DS#1 (age 5) and DD (age 3) both demanded an immediate reread the first day, and then cadged an afternoon and evening reading on the second.
Perhaps he also likes the pleasing euphony of Amelia Bedelia's name?
Classic story about a young housekeeper who misunderstands her directions and follows her to-do list literally. A fun read for older children, although I had to explain some of the items, since they aren't commonly used (at least in our house!)This story was selected as one of the books for the November 2012 - Classic Picture Book Characters reads at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
The amount of frustration I had reading these books still lingers with me today
Her boss, Mrs. Robinson, can’t be there on her first day of work, so she leaves Amelia Bedelia a list of tasks to accomplish during the day.
In the end, they realize that they need to be clearer in order to avoid miscommunication in the future.The illustrations in this book really help show what’s going on in the story, which would be helpful for young readers who may not know all the words on the pages.
At one point, I was confused about how Amelia Bedelia understood the word “trim”, but after looking at the picture, I understood.I really liked this funny story, and I think students would appreciate the humor if they understood how Amelia Bedelia was misunderstanding her instructions.
Happy 50th Birthday, Amelia Bedelia!
You are still as dizzy and literal as ever.
"Please dust the furniture and dress the chicken." The anniversary version of the very first title, written by Peggy Parish and illustrated by Fritz Siebel, that I picked up at my library is not the one pictured.
It's a large format hardcover with the original cover art.
'The Story Behind the Story' at the back of the new edition gives lots of fun details about Parrish and her humorous creation, as well as a glimpse at Siebel's original illustrations.
A fun book for children learning the English language. As a third grade teacher for 30 years this was one series that we read to illustrate the use of puns and idioms. These books are funny if you let yourself drift back to your younger years.
This was a lovely book, I enjoyed reading Amelia's interpretations from the list of jobs left by Mrs. Rogers. She takes everything literally, as kids often do, with very funny results. I think this would be a great book in a classroom setting.
This young lady drives me up a wall. And if Amelia Bedelia read that, she would literally try to drive up the wall.
Although they left her simple things to do, the books follows her doing every task incorrectly because she takes it too literally.Professional Recommendation/Review #1: Reviewer: Horn Book Guidehttps://browse.nypl.org/iii/encore/re...Review: “Parish's hilarious tale marks its fiftieth anniversary with this new edition, which includes Siebel's original comical illustrations.
The brightly colored cartoon artwork is integral to the presentation, as many of the jokes are played out in the pictures.”Response to Two Professional Reviews: In this book, the images help readers understand what exactly Amelia did that was wrong, so I agree that the added illustrations really help the story.
As for the story, it’s written in a way that holds the humor, but younger children can still understand the funny parts of it.
Amelia is adorable!I'm making my way through Amazon's 100 Best Children's Books to Read in a Lifetime. 9 down.
Amelia Bedelia is a fun and silly character that beginner readers enjoy reading about.
Read this in a Spanish edition. I love finding fun and easy reads to exercise my Spanish. And Amelia Bedelia is just the best! :)
It was an amazing book and fasanating book
I was bored today while they were taking out the trees at grandma's, and I have this from when I was little. My 1st grade teacher gave it to me. So I decided to read.
I can't believe this was required reading, but I'm not complaining.
I liked it a lot because it was funny. Excited to read another one of the authors books about Amelia!
Featuring the jacket, artwork and story from the original 1963 edition which brings a treasure to life for today's young generation of children.
These illustrations are made with variations of green and black (including grey) and it is very neat to be able to compare the vintage classic the the full color we are able to see in the little I Can Read!
At the end of the book in the 50th Anniversary Edition Picture Book are some neat additions including a scan of an excerpt from a Harper & Row Catalog announcing Amelia Bedelia (as well as Where the Wild Things Are) and a biography section on Peggy Parish complete with pictures and illustrations.
