https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/565956.Karen
"A hospital, for most people, is a robber's den, holding them hostage and appropriating something before releasing them--an appendix, tonsils, or pounds of flesh after an illness." (p.13) How true!
I reread this book multiple times. It’s the true story of a girl (with cerebral palsy) and her family, written by the mother, who knows how to tell an interesting story. This was in the era before CP was easily diagnosed and well before the Americans with Disabilities Rights Act. I found it inspiring.
Karen is a really gripping and shocking but ultimately uplifting story filled with spirit and originality.

In middle school, during my melodrama phase, I loved this book.
As a child I remember thinking that they seem very close and loving.
There were also very devote Pre-Vatican II Catholics, which kind of fascinated me.I re-read this as an adult and it's a little creepy.
I'm sure some it just offends my feminist sensibilities and the medical treatments seem kind of barbaric.
The family dynamics seem a little weird and there are whole in the story.
However, it was one of the first books that provided a remotely realistic picture of a child with a disability.
It didn't occur to me for many years why my Aunt had picked this particular book and its sequel to give me.
I have multiple disabilities and could relate in many ways to Karen more than many people.
Anyone who reads it will never mutter about how it is unfair that disabled people get the best, closest parking spaces or any other perceived "advantages" in life.
I'm not moaning and saying poor me, but if people think it is easy being disabled, read between the lines of this book and get a sense of what it really is like.
This book, along with the sequel (With Love from Karen) were assigned reading in my nursing school pediatric rotation.
It had never occurred to me to not accept handicapped people in life - in my grade school there were twin sisters affected by CP and severe learning disabilities that were simply a part of life.
When I discovered that parents had to fight to get some education for their disabled children, I was horrified!
We loved him until he died.
I often wondered what happened to all the Killileas whom I had come to love and admire.
I read this as a child and cried and laughed with Karen and her mother and family.
Karen is a strong girl in spirit...her goal is to live as normal a life as possible with hard work and even pain.
Her mother is relentless in helping her towards that goal.
Family is always available and the faith they share helps carry the day.
It still horrified me that a doctor would advise a parent to just put a little one in an institution and walk away.
The head to toe brace also still horrified me.The Catholic family atmosphere (pre Vatican II) was a walk down memory lane which I enjoyed.
For the inspiring story that it is, for the superb writing, the humor, grit, honesty and the history behind it as well.
Marie Killilea tells the story of her daughter Karen, who was born with cerebral palsy in the early 1940's, a time when PT and OT services were virtually non-existent.
The story includes anecdotes, conversations, struggles, and also a parallel story of how Mrs. Killilea helped found the National United Cerebral Palsy Foundation.
Delightful and inspiring.
This was my second reading of the book.
I'm reading the sequel now for the first time!
This dog-eared book that I read sometime in the late 1970's continues to be a perennial favorite. Written by the mother who helped form the Cerebral Palsy Association, it tells of the struggles of parents faced with an exceptional child trapped in a disabled body and doctors who recommended "putting her away" and "forgetting" about her. The struggles and hopes of this family will make you laugh, cry and beleive in the human spirit. You don't have to be Catholic to read this, but it helps. This large, devoted Pre-Vatican II family will have you cheering and praying for Karen.
This is a biography of her daughter, and in places almost an autobiography, by a woman with a severely handicapped daughter. It was intensely engaging to me then, and holds up now to re-reading.
I read this back in the 6th grade. I didn't read much then, but this book had a huge impact on me, such that I still remember it today. It is the story of a girl growing up with cerebral palsy, all that her mother did for her, and the success of her life.
Excellent book about a child struggling with MS and winning!
I first read this book when I was about 12.
At the time, it interested me, but I didn't really identify with the family.
I decided to re-read it as an adult.
I felt differently about it the second time around.
As a kid, I imagined Karen (who was born with CP) as my age - because in the book, she was.
Now I realize that she was born in 1940, and by the time I read the book, she was already an adult.
Another interesting aspect of this book is that it takes place in Westchester County, NY.
Every time I read my copy, I'm blown away by Karen's story. She overcame so much to achieve a productive life after her parents were told to leave her in an institution and forget they ever had her. The family as a whole provided support and hope for thousands of other families struggling with CP and without the Killileas, development of CP devices and surgeries would have been held back for many decades. Even without all of that, you will fall in love with the entire family. I wish I knew where they all were now!
I'm actually reading this for the third time since I was in junior high school. I love the family, sophisticated New York suburbanites and deeply devout Roman Catholics. Mrs. Killilea was a force of nature to accomplish what she did, all disguised as a self-deprecating housewife. (Everytime she lit up another cigarette,though, I wanted to knock it out of her hand and tell her she would end up dying of lung cancer later in life.) Mr. and Mrs. K remained deeply in love despite raising five children, one seriously handicapped. Some books stay with you forever; this is one!
I read (and have reread over and over) this when I was young and it sent me on a journey towards my career. I think all parents of a child with a disability should read it because, while it is outdated, the fact that Karen's Mom spent every day helping Karen succeed-never gets old. When I meet parents with the mind-set of Marie Killilea- their children always are the ones that gain the most skills and succeed in life.
I remembered reading this as a teen & was happy to find a copy at my library to re-read. It's an inspiring true story of parents who were ahead of their time in seeking to not only help their little girl cope with her CP but also to form parent support & community education groups. They had a strong faith & commitment to their family plus a great sense of humor. Such an example of love that does not seek its own, never gives up, puts others first, and bears all things. A beautiful memoir!
I have been re-reading old favorites recently. I remember this as one of my first forays into biography, and it remains as compelling now as it was then. A reminder that our world has not always acknowledged medical differences, it shows that one doesn't have to yell and scream to get what one wants. Persistence pays off!
I loved this book when I was a child. It opened my eyes to a world outside my own and taught me about compassion and determination to overcome obstacles. I reread it almost every time I went home from college.
Written in the 50's (?), I just couldn't seem to really get into this book again. I read it when I was a lot younger, and loved it, but didn't even finish reading it this time. Nothing wrong with it except that it just didn't seem to move along very quickly.
After seeing a goodreads friend also loved Emmy Keeps a Promise, I decided to add some books I read and loved as a child. This is one of them. I strongly recommend it. I actually hunted down a copy a few years ago and it sits proudly on my bookshelves today.
This book should be a compulsory reading in every school and every book club and by everyone who is able to read. Wonderfully written and an eye opener into into the abilities of the disabled people.
Such a lovely story about a family who overcame what seemed insurmountable, buoyed by love and their faith in God. You will come to love Karen and the rest of the Killilea family.
What a wonderful book! Published in 1952, a mother's recounting of the birth of her daughter, Karen,who is diagnosed with CP. Very uplifting and energizing. Wish I had found it years ago.
It's well-written, has a sly, somewhat snarky sense of humor that I love in books written many years ago, and is an excellent memoir of early treatment of cerebral palsy in the US.
But some of the things they did for Karen are still done today--getting her Mary Janes "just like the other girls", encouraging her to explore as much as she liked, matter-of-factly acknowledging her difficulties while providing her with opportunities she could enjoy, fighting for schooling, finding ways she could help others even as she needed so much help herself.
This book may well be responsible for my loss of innocence as a child.
I learned so much from the story about empathy, courage, compassion, perseverance....
An incident that sticks in my mind, nearly 50 years later, is when Mrs. Killelea slapped Karen for whining at her sister(?), 'you have to do x for me, I'm crippled' (from memory, not an exact quote).
I learned to detest pity from this story and became attuned to manipulative behavior and entitlement.
Many years later, a dear friend's child was diagnosed with cerebral palsy and I hunted down a copy to send her.
Not that it is a "feel good" book, for it is the story of the struggles of a young child as she grows within her limitations.However, this book had a powerful effect on my own life.
I was already in grad school pursuing a master's in Maternal and Child Nursing when Karen entered my literary life.
Awareness and compassion for disabilities was different, back then people like Karen were more or less considered "broken" or "defective" by many people, and that was the average attitude.
To even be a parent of a disabled child was no easy thing, and this book illustrates the struggle of living in the 1950's trying to raise, and do your best, for a child with cerebral palsy.This is a very good biography, and is a very worthwhile read for the insight it offers into a different time and attitude, and the fight to overcome prejudices and misconceptions about disabled people.
Karen was born in the 1940s.
There is a lot of outdated info because her mom wrote it back then while she was organizing a national cerebral palsy association due to the fact that most doctors didn`t seem to know much about it & their first reaction was to institutionalize.
Karen`s family were all involved with her therapy & care & she did very well at home.
I don`t know how MY mother missed this book, since I was born in `59 with cerebral palsy.
Now, of course, we know that it is usually caused by a birth injury from forceps being used to remove the infant.
