https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1951436.Cat_of_Many_Tails
I've read enough EQ to guess the twist at the end, but the plot was sound and satisfactory. His writing is more overwrought than usual, though, and if it was my first Queen I would have put it down in disgust after the first chapter.
This was (after a fashion) my first exposure to Ellery Queen, although it was not the first of his books that I read. In 1971, Cat Of Many Tails was used as the basis for the TV-Movie Ellery Queen: Don't Look Behind You, which starred Peter Lawford as Ellery, and Harry Morgan as Inspector Richard Queen. (And for reasons I have been unable to fathom, Inspector Queen somehow morphed from being Ellery's father into his uncle.)
Not bad. Interesting as an early serial killer story--not much mystery until the end. Also interesting for the heavy-handed psychological analysis of the killer. (view spoiler)[It is painfully obvious that these two guys have absolutely NO idea how a woman's mind works. (hide spoiler)]
Ellery Queen ci lascia (o meglio ci lasciano, dato che dietro allo pseudonimo dell'autore si celano due cugini scrittori) un bellissimo giallo classico, elegante e scritto con straordinaria intelligenza, intelligenza che emerge dalla trama, dal modo in cui gli elementi di intersecano fra loro come in un mosaico complesso e ammirabile, dal metodo d'indagine seguito dai protagonisti, dall'impensata soluzione finale.
Non manca nulla in questo giallo: non mancano paura e suspense, non manca una studiata indagine poliziesca, non mancano le atmosfere (seppur, rispetto ad altri gialli come ad esempio quelli di Carr, qui molto metropolitane), non manca nemmeno il colpone di scena finale.
I listened to this audiobook and was surprised that I enjoyed it as much as I did.
The victims appear to have no connection whatsoever and the killer leaves no clues except a silk cord he uses to strangle.
Ellery Queen becomes involved at the request of his father, who is the police investigator in charge of what has been dubbed The Cat murders.
The mayor names Ellery Special Investigator.
The story is a satisfying mystery of unravelling the scant clues.
The ending's surprises and twists just took a little too long to wrap up.
This was my first Ellery Queen mystery, and I thoroughly enjoyed it. Queen matches wits with a serial killer as panic grips the city.
Very dark. A little drawn out. I figured out the solution, which is always a little "Yay, me!" "Darn."
Strangely enough I think I just the other day finished a book from Netgalley that was largely based on this story (but I'm not going to tell you what it is because I only gave it two stars).I had to look up a lot of old-timey terms I had never heard before but I was also surprised by some of the good humor I found in this book.
They joke that maybe the Cat is a civil rights activist, making sure to target black and white victims equally (not really, the Cat still killed many more white people, but whatever).
It's been a long time since I've read an Ellery Queen mystery.
Ellery's father, the policeman, convinces him to help in a current case of serial murders by a person called The Cat. The Cat's tails are his victims, as the newspaper keeps printing a drawing of the cat with an ever-increasing number of tails.
As the radio and newspaper continue to hype the case, NYC is in a state of panic and the police are getting nowhere.
This is one of my favorite Ellery Queen mysteries.
Written in 1949, it reflects the attitude of post World War II America, a time that I am unfamiliar with.
It is also a departure from the crime novels of its era, as it is a story of a serial killer, a very unfamiliar persona at this time in crime writing.
Very well done, as are all Ellery Queen endeavors, it is full of introspections into the culture and psychologies of the times.
A bit more cerebral than the normal pulp novels of the 40's and 50's.
(1949), Ellery Queen.
****.This was a well-crafted mystery from Queen.
The Cat of the title was a serial killer who seemed to be roaming the New York City area at will.
Young Ellery was put on the case by his father to try and make sense of the doings of this strangler.
He killed his victims using special cord from India, and the actual victims seemed to be picked at random from the New York telephone book.
The mystery is ultimately solved, however, when Ellery recognizes a trend in the victims that hadn’t been picked up before.

2.5 stars for this mystery that didn't stand the test of time for me. I read this particular ellery queen at least several times back in the day and can only think that I must have skimmed madly. the narrator was somewhat annoying too, perhaps he was trying to evoke the fast talking bantering tone of the tracy and hepburn movies with varying success.once the novelty of long ago patterns of speech, smoking, drinking scotch (a lot), and contemplating a job as a 'public stenographer' wore off it was a slog rather than a skip to the finish.
Highly-Flawed, but Fascinating, Early Serial Killer ThrillerAs a lifelong mystery fan, Ellery Queen (the writer and the character) are not among my favorites. The character himself feels too much like a collection of traits rather than a person, the characters surrounding him seem to come from Central Casting rather than being fully fleshed-out persons or interesting twists on type, and even the best stories feel like puzzles written at a remove rather than adventures written to engage you at an emotional as well as intellectual level.
Growing up I was a big fan of Ellery Queen, but I guess like all things, this time the reread was laborious and dated. I still enjoyed the story and the character but there was too much extraneous “stuff” and musing in this story...it could have been edited down and still been enjoyable. Oh well...I still treasure my discovery of these stories the first time out.
I have a particular fondness for the "Golden Age" mysteries - those from the thirties and forties - and Ellery Queen is a favorite among those. This one I missed so was a welcome change to return to the cerebral one at his best.
Me dejó con ansiedad y un terrible dolor de cabeza.
My first Ellery Queen book, kept me involved from beginning to end. The ending was a complete surprise. Great story. Will read more Ellery Queen. Five stars!
Still a riveting mystery
All I can say is that I've loved Ellery Queen for many, many years. I even had a subscription the magazine.
One of the better Ellery Queens. Gets talky in spots, but has enough suspense to carry you through it. Plus, it’s set in New York and there’s a map.
Il primo giallo di Ellery Queen che ho letto! nonostante non sia il migliore mi portò a diventare un lettore assiduo di questa coppia di giallisti
No, I don’t think I will follow up on any more Ellery Queen books. For starters, I did not like the character of EQ, which would be kind of essential to keep reading about him. And although the idea of a serial killer in Cat of Many Tails was kind of interesting, it was also very predictable.
This was a departure from what I had come to understand to be the normal for Queen & Co. mysteries.As most know Ellery Queen was actually a pen name for two writers, Frederic Dannay and Manfred Lee. This novel was near the end of their series it was perhaps the two decided to try something of an experiment for the pair?!
I had been aware that this feature was dropped eventually, in the original novel series, I just hadn't been aware that I had been reading one of those books until the end came near and I didn't find "Challenge to the Reader" page.
When the Cat killed, people were actually relieved for a few days, in a semi-hysterical way; they and theirs were safe once more.
3. The world today reminds me of the very old days (Prometheus spoke), when religions were being born.
But I find the most interesting similarity in the way you react to your environment.
And thee thinking power of a crowd, as last night’s unfortunate events demonstrated, is of an extremely low order.
You’re bursting with ignorance, and ignorance breeds panicky fears.
So you’re only too happy to huddle together inside the high magic wall of tradition and let your leaders manipulate the mysteries.
It’s just a bit slow and a tiny bit cerebral and the writing style is unique to the two men who were Ellery Queen.When you start this adventure, you’re immediately transported to 1950s-era Manhattan.
After all, if a nationally renowned crime fighter like Ellery Queen is named special consultant to the task force, the people may stop asking the politicians what they’re doing to solve the Cat murders.As a novel experiment in human nature, Ellery brings in two people whose brother and sister are victims of the Cat. That’s when the fun begins.
If this book isn’t squeaky clean, it’s eat-off-the-floor clean, and that’s pretty close.
Oddly constructed plot line.
First half is murder mystery: a serial killer named "The Cat" strangles victims in New York City, late 1940s, seemingly at random.
Ellery Queen follows clues to identify the killer.
In the next quarter of the book Ellery lays a trap to catch the killer in the act with 24/7 surveillance and a planted victim.
Final quarter of book Ellery revisits all the clues and finds out that the real killer was the wife of a doctor.
She had lost babies during childbirth, and the victims were other babies who had been delivered by her husband.
This was the best mystery novel I've read so far (of a few dozen including a half dozen other Ellery Queen novels and mostly other classic detective novels, not so many newer ones). The investigation of a psychopathic serial killer seems to me way ahead of it's time (written in 1949). The clues and detection are all consistent and revealed logically and realistically while maintaining the suspense, with terrific, believable characters, some clever humor that had me laughing in the right spots, a
This was the best mystery novel I've read so far (of a few dozen including a half dozen other Ellery Queen﻿ novels and mostly other classic detective novels, not so many newer ones).
The investigation of a psychopathic serial killer seems to me way ahead of it's time (written in 1949).
The clues and detection are all consistent and revealed logically and realistically while maintaining the suspense, with terrific, believable characters, some clever humor that had me laughing in the right spots, and inevitable and logical plot twists at the end - a real page turner.
I highly recommend this to anyone who likes mystery and suspense.
Really, really, effective, in terms of setting and ambiance. The novel really captures a sense of paranoia and stress in a community hit by crisis, and it does this in a minutely depicted urban environment. Themes of media exploitation, reactionary populations, and the weakness of civilization, are suggested.However, the murder mystery, that after all is the essence and purpose of the novel, doesn't impress, and the mood of the story leads to nowhere in the end, the thematic potential waisted.A redundantly well written novel.
i remembered the 1970's tv show that I had really enjoyed so I tried this Ellery Queen book. I always had wondered if the books had any of the same feel. My answer is yes and no. While the plot line is not extremely convoluted, the main characters are interesting and Ellery himself, while no Holmes, this was still an interesting read primarily due to the period posr-war slang used liberally throughout the dialog. I found that I needed to look up quite a few of the terms that were unknown to me.
