https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76635.Death_of_a_Ghost
The initial murder, there are more to come, takes place early on during the first viewing of one of the paintings which has been left by a famous artist to be revealed at the rate of one per year.Some of the characters are so appalling, that I woud have loved to have leapt into the pages of my book and killed them off myself.
Others may love that, but it was not for me.In summary, the book was OK, I don't regret reading it, but there are many other books out there that I should prefer to read ahead of another Campion mystery.
In this case even the police are convinced, but seem unable to think of any course of action.
Campion is particularly ineffectual in this installment, perhaps a reaction on the author's part to swinging too far in the action-hero direction in the previous book.
I wasn't convinced that the killer was really that diabolically clever and found the resolution disappointing and weak.However, I did like the opening set-up with the artists and critics at the mildly Bohemian house party and the descriptions of the art.
I think she probably achieved this through her deft ability to portray character: I last read Death of a Ghost perhaps forty years ago, so obviously remembered very little of the plot, but I did recall the characters -- notably Belle, Max Fustian and Linda (who I thought and still think is red-hot -- an aesthetic conclusion with which Campion evidently agrees).There are also, to be honest, some fairly easy, almost cheap, bits of characterization going on: household hanger-on Donna Beatrice, an old model of Lafcadio's, pretentiously full, Blavatsky-style, of the need to understand the Higher Consciousness and open one's aura to the mystic ways of the universe ("Donna Beatrice’s greeting was more sensational and Campion remembered with sudden satisfaction that her real name was Harriet Pickering."); Rosa-Rosa, the empty-headed yet ravishingly lovely model, who readily delivers herself of obscenities and the most remarkable gestures, whom Dacre met in Rome and whom he married in order to be able to bring home to the UK with him -- despite his supposed engagement to Linda.(Dacre, by the way, suggested that he, Linda and Rosa-Rosa should get a house together and live there in a menage-a-trois.
Allingham veers here into character study, telling us who the murderer is halfway through the novel, and then setting Campion to trying to find a way to stop a clever killer who is smart enough to get away with it.The story itself represents a shift in Campion's character from deceptively fatuous young adventurer with a strong sense of fun to self-styled 'universal uncle' (a transition he began in the previous volume, where Campion is noted to be in his early thirties).Unfortunately, in this book, Campion's interpretation of 'uncle' involves a lot of gaslighting of Linda, instead of treating her with any real regard for her opinion.
Not a good book to start this series, in other words: it doesn't give a good impression of Campion at all.
Campion soon finds himself investigating not only Dacre's murder, but a series of other odd events, another death and, ultimately, finds himself almost losing his life when he underestimates the murderer.
Campion's attempts to first unmask, then stop the killer are stymied every step of the way and for a while there it looks like he might be the final victim.
This is a very different book that I liked and was unsure about, both at the same time.
Certainly, some early strange events (such as the disappearance of all Dacre's works) finally make sense when the killer's motives are revealed and it is all very clever.
Campion and the police must try to assemble a case whose proofs will stand up in court.The case ends with a thrilling nightmare journey at the conclusion of which a resolution is reached.The Allingham magic here is in creating, yet again, a small, rather strange community peopled by some rather oddly believable characters.We may not like many of them and feel little sympathy for or empathy with them, but they all come alive, from the ludicrous Donna Beatrice to the pathetic Potters, from the fantastically mephistophelian and vainglorious Max, to practical Linda.This is the Allingham which will most divide readers’ opinions.The first time I read it, I found it unappealing and unsatisfactory.
It is the sixth mystery featuring Albert Campion, a seemingly unremarkable man in horn-rimmed glasses.
But his nondescript appearance is a calculated disguise, for Campion is in fact a brilliant sleuth with a mysterious past.
He is among those invited to attend an exclusive event in the London art world, namely the unveiling of a canvas of a famous, (though long-dead) English painter, to be staged in the late artist’s studio.
Margery Allingham is perhaps my least favorite of the “Golden Age” crime writers.
But peopled with memorably oddball characters, and sometimes quite funny, Death of A Ghost is an agreeable, entertaining, if not brilliant, mystery.
Definitely NOT up there with the previous entries into the Campion series; here he just sort of comes in and out until the very end; none of the banter that helps to define who he is.
Without checking it out to see why, my guess is that Mr. Campion is coming into his own, without the witty banter & silliness from the past, he's becoming more serious & the series is most likely taking a new turn.
It's just a matter of waiting him out, but this may not be easy.It will take me some time to get used to the new Campion, since I really loved the old one!
This is not the best of the Albert Campion mysteries. There is no intrigue, in fact, very little mystery. It is mostly just waiting for the murderer to go one step too far. The story is about the art world in the 1930's in England, and what results from the legacy of a deceased artist's disposition of his integrated paintings. I know nothing about the art world in England in the 1930's. This book makes it seem depressing. I guess the Bright Young People had all dimmed by then.
This book is full of self-centered, whiny people who lie and cheat on each other. Campion doesn't actually do anything except listen to people complain and tell the investigating officer that all his ideas are wrong. Half way through the book we find out who did it in a very clever way, but as Campion has no plan for unmasking the perpetrator, it's just more waiting around. I really didn't like this book - can you tell? What a pity, since the previous one was lots of fun.
This is a fairly early Campion book and for me he was just a shadowy presence. Thankfully as he matures Allingham gives him a much more interesting character. This murder mystery is just so-so for me.
An engaging story with memorable characters and a fast-paced story.
This is all wrapped up in a mystery where halfway through the book you already know the culprit (not because of educated guesses, but because Campion tells you so) but the final reveal does not show any ingenuity or cleverness.So, the plot problems.
(hide spoiler)]Thematic problems.
The answer is just revealed to him halfway through the book and then he happens to be lucky in catching the murderer.
(view spoiler)[ To have him suddenly just go insane at the end is just sloppy and doesn't really work, thematically or in terms of his character.

I'm sure I've read some Allingham before with pleasure and I needed that memory to get me through the dull setup in the first half of the book, with too many characters competing for recognition. Or perhaps the satire on the art world is just too dated now that Little Venice is home to multimiliionaires. But the final unmasking-or-die-trying is ingenious if wildly implausible. I'll give Campion another go or two.
This is an classic Who-dun-it mystery in the Agatha Christie mold. There are murders, a cast of memorable characters, and our unflappable hero, Campion, must figure out who , how, and why. The writing and language were a bit difficult for me at first, but after I became accustomed to it, I think it added to the 1930s, upper crust English atmosphere. Thanks to Ishrita, my reading partner, for suggesting a book I would otherwise never have tried.
“There are, fortunately, very few people who can say that they have actually attended a murder. The assassination of another by any person of reasonable caution must, in a civilized world, tend to be a private affair.” Thus starts an interesting book. Yet, it is not a five-star in my view. Allingham tries to get way too “psychological” for my taste. And one of my favorite characters, Magersfontein, unfortunately does not appear anywhere.
Another excellent Campion mystery. An art gala turns deadly when the lights go out and an unassuming young artist is murdered. Who could the culprit be? The young man's jealous fiancee seems like the most likely suspect, but Mr. Campion is convinced that there is more to this strange death than a lover's spat. The climax of this novel is a bit over-the-top (something I've come to expect from Allingham -- she relishes a good bit of melodrama), but it's good fun and the mystery is satisfying.
Not so good as expected.3* Mystery Mile (Albert Campion Mystery #2) 2* Death of a Ghost (Albert Campion Mystery #6) TR The Crime at Black Dudley (Albert Campion Mystery #1) TR Look to the Lady (Albert Campion Mystery #3) TR Police at the Funeral (Albert Campion Mystery #4) TR Sweet Danger (Albert Campion Mystery #5)
Another interesting plot; it is interesting to see how personally Campion becomes involved in this one. As usual, there is a lot going on, but the supporting characters are interesting and distinct enough from one another to enable me to remember who they are when they are mentioned, which is a problem with some writers.
An enjoyable mystery from one of the mystery classics. I like the Campion series, have enjoyed the stories I've read so far. I don't know that it holds up when compared to the likes of Ngaio Marsh or Agatha Christie, but still very enjoyable. Campion is a likable character and the mystery itself held my attention.
Poor Albert doesn't come off so well in this one. He escapes a terrible fate by sheer luck, not his best day. It's a good installment in the series with enjoyable characters and a great atmospheric setting.
Reading Allingham’s books in a rough chronological order, this is where the author and her creation seem to be developing say from where they began.
The earlier books were more adventure than mystery.
It is not that the murderer is difficult to work out, the author basically tells you who it is half-way through.
Having got the characters into this corner of how do they prove the murderer did it, the author almost gives up and resolves the problem by basically removing the problem.I recommend this book - it is still a great read - and in terms of thinking about why Allingham writes, really interesting.
Raamatus oli tunda 19.
Nii et sellesse sisse elamine võttis mul tavapärasest veidi rohkem aega.
Ent kui sain sisse elatud, siis peab ütelma, et kohati oli tegu väga nauditava lugemisega.
Ühe aspektina, millega oma tegu "õigustatakse", tuuakse välja, et Margery Allingtoni on "Agatha Christiega võrreldes parem stiil ja keel." Ühest küljest pean nõustuma - stiili- ja keeletunnetus on tõepoolest peenemad.
Ka Christie ise on tunnistanud, et tegelikult oli ta üsna kirjaoskamatu.
Samas oskab Christie oma tegelastele elu sisse puhuda, mis antud M.
Raamatus oli aga piisavalt põnevaid mõtteid, mis olid tegelikult igati nauditavalt kirja pandud, nii et rahulikumaks meelelahutuseks on tegu igati hea valikuga.
The charm of this book is the milieu in which it is set - an artistic coterie in London in the 1930s - rather than the puzzle.
An artist is stabbed during a reception for the showing of a picture by the great, late John Lafcadio.
Albert Campion, gentleman-detective in the aristocratic mold, understands who the murderer is by a dazzling flash of intuition.
Intuition, mind you, not insight.
He just knows that a certain person killed both victims, but he doesn't know why or how.
The book is set in London in the 1930s at the home of a great artist's widow.
A murder is committed, in temporary darkness of course,while a family and friends gather round the valuable posthumous work of a famous artist.
Most present could have a motive, and each short chapter end leads to a new clue.
We happily identify with the gentle detective and family friend Albert Campion, who features in a series of her books.
A cat and mouse conclusion with a dramatic ending.
A riveting read and a satisfying ending.
This was the most enjoyable of all the Campion books I have read so far.
Campion is a less enigmatic character here than he is in some of the earlier books.
He is a known character in society and consulted as an adviser or family friend.
In this book, he is moving in artistic circles where there is skulduggery afoot.
I think it is the pacing and the increasing tension that made it such an enjoyable read.
We discover, as does Campion, the identity of the murderer halfway through, but then there is the matter of evidence and motive and that's when things get a little tricky for our hero.
A painter left instructions in his will that a decade after his death, a collection of a dozen paintings were to be exhibited and sold at a rate of one a year. During the reception for the unveiling of the latest painting the lights suddenly go out and when they come back on, a young artist is lying dead with a set of bejeweled scissors in his heart. Albert Campion immediately contacts a friend in Scotland Yard and they attempted to discovered the murderer. Unfortunately, there is a second death and then Campion himself becomes the target.
One of those books where the antagonist is SUCH an obnoxious little asshole that it’s emotionally satisfying just to know he goes down. This is why we read detective novels, no? Hero uses brain, emerges victorious, and drinks a martini, bad dude gets what’s coming to him, three cheers for justice and apple pie. I did also want some comeuppance for another detestable character that never arrived, but you can’t have everything. I GUESS.
All'inizio un po' noioso e difficile da seguire, entra nel vivo a partire dal quinto capitolo.Da questo momento in poi, la scrittura diventa brillante e avvincente, il giallo ingegnoso e l'assassino si rivela con l'essere un uomo a metà tra il genio e la follia. Subdolo ma geniale, forte tanto quanto debole.Buona lettura, scrittrice raffinata, si capisce perché fu una delle autrici più apprezzata da Agatha Christie.
