https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/101999.Jealousy
It’s this third meaning I particularly enjoy since one possible interpretation of the novel is ‘novel-as-film,’ that is, the two main character, a man and a women, could be leading actors in a film with the objective 3rd person narrator as film director, Incidentally, Robbe-Grillet was one of the top French film directors of his day.Detail, Detail, DetailOn the first two pages we are given a blueprint of the house, courtyard and surrounding banana trees along with a legend labeling ten different parts of the house.
But like a robot just reporting the facts, I can't find any particular reason for that, or at least none that derives from the text and not from my own imagination, so I will close the review with the uncertain, unsure statement that NOTHING HAPPENED!
The husband, objectively is recording what he sees for us as he tries to ascertain from minimal information what exactly is going on with his wife and Franck.
Most men when watching their wife comb her hair, especially long hair, would find it a sensual experience.
Alain Robbe-GrilletI felt this growing unease as I continued to read this book.
The narrator wants to know if his wife is unfaithful, but it is unclear what that will mean to him beyond knowing yet another fact.
In fact I feel like I need to read more just to fully comprehend what exactly Alain Robbe-Grillet is trying to tell us.
Thus, meaning for the reader is cumulative, a result of accretion, even if at the end of the novel, we're still not sure what really happened or what the real meaning was.\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\Utter Unconnected FragmentsRobbe-Grillet gives us a clue to his intentions in the narrator's comment on a native song being sung by a road worker:"The singing is at moments so little like what is ordinarily called a song, a complaint, a refrain, that the western listener is justified in wondering if something quite different is involved.
We are like one of the characters peering into its meaning:"He seems to be looking at something at the bottom of the little stream - an animal, a reflection, a lost object."The novel doesn't so much tell a story as suggest one.
In French ‘jalousie’ refers to a window, making it harder in English to position the narrator as a jealous husband, crucial for decoding the book.The detailed geometrical descriptions of the house and its inhabitants form its emotional nucleus: one can imagine the distraught husband poised outside taking notes and embellishing details.
This makes all the action and description unreliable, giving the book its detective novel reputation: is it possible to make sense of all the repetitions, random scene breaks, contradictory sentences, squashed centipedes, apparent car fires and form a coherent plotline?
Look upon it as an IKEA self-assembly novel.
رمانی پروست گونه سرشار از اصوات ، آدم ها ، حرکات ، قاشق ها ، چنگال ها ، دست ها ، چرخش ها ، جزئیات و جزئیات
To a very small extent a film like The Sixth Sense may carry a kernel of parallel in terms of narrative perspective, but this would only be in an implied, helicopter view point.A plot of sorts is cobbled together of a few sparse events: A….., the mistress of a banana plantation in some hot non African country dines with a neighbour, Franck, whose wife and child are too ill to accompany him.
Franck complains about car troubles, swats dead an enormous caterpillar, the two discuss a book they are reading and make plans to go to a port town several hours away for shopping.
A woman and her male friend sit on her porch, having drinks and discussing a novel.
"By his exclusive and tyrannical appeal to the sense of sight, Robbe-Grillet undoubtedly intends the assassination of the object, at least as literature has traditionally represented it.
Robbe-Grillet's purpose is to establish the novel on the surface: once you can set its inner nature, its "interiority," between parentheses, then objects in space, and the circulation of men between them, are promoted to the rank of subjects.
Perhaps Robbe-Grillet's experiments with temporality and objectivity are better-suited to the visual possibilities of filmmaking — someday I'll give his own directorial efforts a chance.
As Jealousy nears its end, A ..., like Addie, slips away into the "blank areas" of the book's geometry, spending more and more time "outside the field of vision," as though commandeering the narrator's blind spot for herself.One of A ...'s main activities throughout the novel is to read and write.
These, too, are geometric figures--"tiny lines, arcs, crosses, loops, etc."--but unlike the centipede whose form is marked so legibly across the wall {before being erased and reinscribed, over and over again), here "no complete letter can be made out, even in a mirror"; the text remains illegible.In the interview with Obrist, Robbe-Grillet claimed that, whereas the novels of Balzac or Dickens do not require readers since they perform all the latter's work themselves, his own writing calls for active readers who will piece everything together.
A fine-tuned study of obsession, Jealousy allows us a sort of psychological portrait of a character and scenario, but without resorting to any of actual introspection or psychology Robbe-Grillet claimed to loath at the time.
Yet these repetitions, these tiny variations, halts, regressions, can give rise to modifications--though barely perceptible--eventually moving quite far from the point of departure.Jealousy seems like it's Robbe-Grillet's most universally acknowledged work.
Not so much at the time of its release, when passages were apparently ridiculed over the radio (still, what a literary climate that cared enough to publicly debate new experimental fiction at all), but certainly in retrospect.
This is why I don't like to read books that are out of my comfort zone... because they bore me. Or I don't understand things. And this book was just like this! I really didn't like it and I felt like I should DNF it a lot of times, but I finished it anyway, because it was short.
It just sees and hears, then records the informations that come its way.What if a machine like that can write a novel?
He points out things like the measurements of the house, where the shadows are during the times of the day, A.'s curly hair and how it sways with the wind or moves with her body, even the centipede squashed on the wall and how many legs it has, the number of banana trees in front of her veranda, their spacing, etc.
The narrator, like a spy camera, cannot go into an omniscient mode (like in many novels) and say what the characters are thinking or feeling.
«ژلوزی» از روب گریه، یک «رمان نو» فرانسوی است.
رمان سرشار از توصیفات وسواس گونه راوی است از فضاها، آدمها ، ساختمانها و هر آن چه یک نفر می تواند در یک خانه در روستای مستعمره نشین در افریقا ببیند.
راوی که همسر «آ» است ، نقش خاصی در داستان ایفا نمیکند.
او در گوشه گوشه خانه به همسرش و فرانک نگاه میکند گویی یک دوربین فیبمبرداری است که مدام در حال ثبت جزییات است و بدون آنکه اشاره صریحی به رابطه نامشروع همسرش و فرانک کند، حسادت را در فضای غیر خطی داستان و گاه تکرار فضاها و بازی با عناصر جاندار مثل هزا
رمان سرشار از توصیفات وسواس گونه راوی است از فضاها، آدم‌ها ، ساختمان‌ها و هر آن چه یک نفر می ‌تواند در یک خانه در روستای مستعمره نشین در افریقا ببیند.
او در گوشه گوشه خانه به همسرش و فرانک نگاه می‌کند گویی یک دوربین فیبمبرداری است که مدام در حال ثبت جزییات است و بدون آنکه اشاره صریحی به رابطه نامشروع همسرش و فرانک کند،‌ حسادت را در فضای غیر خطی داستان و گاه تکرار فضاها و بازی با عناصر جاندار مثل هزارپا می ریزد و بی قراری هایش را به نمایش می گذارد.
Obra prima sem tamanho, compulsivamente o li em poucas horas, pois a capacidade do Robbe-Grillet repetir as mesmas cenas destrinchando a linguagem de formas diferentes é particularmente brilhante, especialmente porque reflete no tipo de pensamento obsessivo causado pelo ciúme, mesmo que se isente de qualquer tipo de análise psicológica no sentido clássico da acepção e sim aniquilando o tempo. Não é uma leitura difícil ou chata como vemos muitos dizendo por aí, mas sim melhor degustada por aqueles aptos a assumirem seu amor pela grandiosidade e diversidade da linguagem.
More than this, ‘Jealousy’ is a work of understated poetry and startling originality, a story of endless observation and repetition, a story told by a nameless (and perhaps even non-existent) narrator who suspects his wife ‘A’ is having an affair with the neighbours ‘Franck’.Robbe-Grillet constantly recycles and reuses the same scenes over-and-over again; ‘A’ combing her hair, Franck squashing a centipede whose outline is embedded both on the wall and in our memories, he imbues his descriptions with a kind of mathematical precision, in a vain attempt at trying to achieve objectivity, yet every word is laden with meaning, every description oozes emotion, every scene may (or may not) have some kind of symbolic meaning behind it, which is the essential point behind Robbe-Grillet’s novel and philosophy; every reader interprets the story for themselves and the novel is a blank canvas with which the reader can paint their interpretation of the text: whether A is having an affair is purely incidental.
The setting is an isolated banana plantation somewhere in Africa where the narrator perpetually watches the two of them through “the jalousie window,” Venetian blinds (note the pun in the title) as they go about their extremely passive and banal daily visits with one another.
Gradually the reader becomes aware of vast numbers of repetitive passages that represent either humdrum routines or re-imaginings and fantasies by the narrator.
The overall effect of the book, which might for some readers be merely boring, can be mesmerizing, raising questions of what has happened and what is the point.
اگر می خواهید درباره ی «رمان نو» بیشتر بدانید با مطالعه «ژلوزی» آغاز کنید. سومین رمان روب-گرییه که به خوبی تمام خصوصیات رمان نو را بازمی نمایاند؛ از بین بردن مفهوم «شخصیت یا قهرمان» به معنای متعارف آن، توجه افراطی به اشیا و جزئیات به ظاهر بی اهمیت، فروپاشی زمان خطی، بازتعریفِ مفهوم «واقعیت» و تقریبا هرآنچه که به عنوان خصوصیاتِ رمان نو مطرح شده از دل همین رمان بیرون آمده استدرحالیکه تا همین چند سال پیش مهمترین آثار این جریان (هرچند نمی توان رمان نو را یک مکتب ادبی در نظر گرفت) به فارسی ترجمه نشده
درحالیکه از آن به عنوان نقطه ی انقطاع مدرنیسم و سرآغاز پست مدرنیسم در ادبیات یاد می شودژلوزی رمان عجیبی است.
هیچ چیز آشنایی در آن وجود ندارد: از عنوان نامتعارف آن گرفته (ژلوزی در زبان فرانسه هم به معنای حسادت و هم به معنای کرکره ی چوبی است و در رمان هم هردو معنا مدنظر نوسنده بوده) تا پایان آن.
È una lettura claustrofobica e convulsa. Un paesaggio e azioni che si ripetono, ma a cui ogni volta viene aggiunto un dettaglio. Bellissima analisi sul sentimento della Gelosia.
weren't into true things about the world or mimesis or what have you, but it's still a thing); you do take in immense amounts of sensory data all the time, and you are, fundamentally, profoundly alone with it.
Yet at the same time it seems like it misses a bigger thing about the world which is that this stuff does get filtered and interpreted and communicated back and forth, and lots of us are just not fundamentally this alone.
Maybe we just assume he's spending hours peeping out at his wife and the neighbor guy.
Are we sure that the guy we think is her husband is also our eye?
I was reminded of this author today by Scribble with regard to one of Robbe-Grillet's other books.I had to read this in French at university and did I struggle.
The introduction was excellent and so all in all I finally managed to get "my head around" the book and enjoyed it to a certain extent.Looking at this book now, Robbe-Grillet is supposedly "one of the leading exponents of the nouveau roman".Now how would you interpret the following?"Robbe-Grillet believes that there is a distance between man and objects - an object's sole meaning is that given to it by man.
read other edition: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5...
La jalousie, par contre, j'ai beau me forcer, mon esprit refuse de s'investir, de rester sur le texte, comme s'il trouvait offensante l'idée de subir sa placidité apathique une seconde de plus.Dans La Salle de Bain, de Jean-philippe Toussaint, le protagoniste dit : "L'immobilité n'est pas l'absence de mouvement, mais l'absence de toute perspective de mouvement, elle est mort.
So why waste my precious hours on this trash?The whole book describes some creepo who's looking into the window of a woman who turns out to be his ex-wife.
A situation like that could actually make for a very interesting story, but it almost seems like Robbe-Grillet is trying to turn a potentially interesting storyline into the most boring book known to (wo)man.
The entire book consists of nothing but extremely meticulous and boring descriptions of the house.
It then climbs up the wooden surface, from lath to lath, growing gradually larger until it reaches the window sill.
Alain Robbe-Grillet, Jealousy (Grove, 1955)Alain Robbe-Grillet's first two novels, The Erasers and Voyeur, were the best thing to happen to French literature since Apollinaire.
It would seem that a suspected love affair between a man's wife and their neighbor would be the perfect subject for an author who obsessively details scenes, going back over them to change small details and keep the reader off his feet, wouldn't it?Sadly, in practice, it didn't work that way at all.
We are given a nameless narrator, his wife A..., and the neighbor, Franck, and the unnamed narrator's obsessive going over of a few particular incidents (the implication is that one of them is presently happening, while the others are things he's going over in his head).
ژلوزی از آن دست کتابهایی نیست که به کسی پیشنهاد کنم بخواند.
مگر اینکه بخواهید تمام کارهای نویسنده را بررسی کنید.
رمان ابدا روان نیست.
زبانی خشک همراه با توصیفاتی آنقدر دقیق و آنقدر زیاد که با خود میگویی خب تمام اینها برای چه چیزی بازگو میشوند؟ نویسنده بصورت وسواسگونهای فضارا شرح میدهد که البته این یکی از ویژگیهای روب گریه است.
اما هرچیزی به مقدار مناسب در یک اثر زیبا و لذت بخش است و بیش از آن اگر که دلیلی منطقی برای آن در داستان وجود نداشته باششد آزار دهنده است.
طرح داستان جالب است.
جلو و عقب شد
زبانی خشک همراه با توصیفاتی آنقدر دقیق و آنقدر زیاد که با خود می‌گویی خب تمام این‌ها برای چه چیزی بازگو می‌شوند؟ نویسنده بصورت وسواس‌گونه‌ای فضارا شرح می‌دهد که البته این یکی از ویژگی‌های روب گریه است.
البته این خوب است اما نبود جزئیات درست و وجود اضافات زیاد موجب می‌شود که طرح قوی و هوشمندی نویسنده در بعضی از نمادهایی که در داسستان قرار داده مانند هزارپا و صداهایی که از مزرعه به گوش می‌رسند کمتر به چشم بیاید.
اما اگر قصدتان لذت بردن است بعید می‌دانم این کتاب بتواند لذت‌بخش باشد!

Վայ, էս ի՞նչ էր: Միայն նկարագրություններից կազմված անվերջ ցիկլ էր: Ու նկարագրություններն էլ սարսափելի երկար էին: Չեմ սիրում էն գրքերը, որ կարո, ես երկու էջ չկարդալ, բայց ընդամենը սենյակում դրած մի աթոռի նկարագրություն բաց թողնել:
Ο αναγνώστης αυτής της ουδέτερης αφήγησης δίχως τέλος και αρχή, που φιδογυρίζει συνεχώς στα ίδια στιγμιότυπα και αποκαλύπτει βαθμηδόν νέες λεπτομέρειες στο ίδιο τετριμμένο τοπίο της καθημερινότητας, αντιλαμβάνεται κλείνοντας το βιβλίο ότι έχει παρακολουθήσει και ο ίδιος στα κλεφτά, μέσα από τις γρίλιες, την ανάπτυξη του δίσημου τίτλου.
Μέσα από τις γρίλιες βλέπεις δίχως να σε βλέπουν, παρατηρείς χωρίς να παρατηρείσαι: ο αθέατος αφηγητής σύζυγος που πουθενά δεν κατονομάζεται στην αφήγηση και μόνο διακριτικές ενδείξεις υποδηλώνουν την παρουσία του, γίνεται όλος ένα βλέμμα ή, καλύτερα, ένα διάφραγμα που ανοιγοκλείνει μηχανικά ρυθμίζοντας, όπως οι γρίλιες, την ένταση του φωτός και καταγράφει τα πάντα.
at the end of the day it’s still going to be a plantation, so what else do you really need to know?
did oulipo and the other french ambigramic movements (oupolpot, ougrapo, etc) felt there was nothing more to tell since we are all the subject supposed to know already, leaving nothing for the griot to impart, no moral, no ethical demonstration, just luxuriate in the all-consumingly assaultive sensorium.
why would you want to read a novel about detailing the tasks of your shitty job?
this novel also made me think of claire denis’ masterful film *white material*, and i wonder how much robbe-grillet’s art is informed by neo-realist cinema.
Și când credeam că le-am văzut pe toate am dat peste cartea lui Robbe-Grillet. Inima mi se strânge și picură milă. Gelozia e grea. Gelozia e cu totul o nouă flavoare pe cerul gurii. O narațiune ambiguă, fără capăt sau sfârșit și fără o continuitate propriu-zisă. Un amalgam, o disperare și o tensiune adunată într-un punct de încordare maximă.Nici să vreau nu pot să spun mai multe. E un tot și un nimic. Citește-o dacă ai timp să încerci ceva exotic.
