https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/585124.Celtic_Gods_and_Heroes
Before discovering Celtic Gods and Heroes by Marie-Louise Sjoestedt, I read book after book on the subject, never satisfied with the "angle" or "peek" provided by other authors on the subject. Yet this book, despite its slim size, opened wide the subject for me and now I've the context necessary to read the others with better appreciation.
a nice introduction to celtic mythologies with an emphasis on how it differs from classical, but not a good source for hard information on any specific gods and heroes.
Please see my review here: Celtic Gods and Heroes
La Sjoestedt esplora la religione celtica, non raccontando ogni singolo mito ma esaminando le caratteristiche generali degli dèi, che sono diverse a seconda del fatto che siano divinità femminili o maschili, e degli eroi, fornendo degli esempi provenienti dai miti quando necessario.Ora, come vedete è molto breve, quindi non si è andati molto nel dettaglio, ma personalmente l'ho trovato conciso e facile da seguire.È un testo piuttosto accademico, sia nel linguaggio che nella suddivisione degli argomenti.
There's a surprising amount of information packed into this tiny book about Celtic culture and myth.
It's dense reading, and I read each chapter through multiple times and took notes in order to really absorb the information.
What I appreciated most about this work is how Sjoestedt highlights the ways Celtic myth differs from that of many other cultures, and how it must be read as a completely different type of system from more commonly studied and understood mythological systems like those of classical cultures.I don't read in any language besides English, either, and I appreciated what a flowing, accessible translation this is.
"Other people raised temples to their gods, and their very mythologies are temples whose architecture reproduces the symmetry of a cosmic or social order--an order both cosmic and social. It is in the wild solitude of the nemeton, the sacred woodland, that the Celtic tribe meets its gods, and its mythical world is a sacred forest, pathless and unbounded, which is inhabited by mysterious powers. [...] Hence the uneasiness we feel in approaching this world: we seek for a cosmos and find chaos." 92
A priceless revelation of the Celtic tribal imagination. One wonders what could similarly be done to reveal the Anasazi or more recent Desert Southwest tribal stories if we could travel back in time. What is left of pre-Buddhist Ttbet? I only wish someone had done as well for them, too.
For a long time have I sought for the literature such as this book is, because books about Celts usually enclose descriptions about their way of life and social interactions, but not mythology and mythological legends.
Also, a plenty of books that contain legends from Celtic mythology are deprived of explanations about Celtic deities, thus I always felt if some kind of gap lies between the tale and its characters, being uninformed of which precise deity is certain story about.
The description of the book says that it is concise and erudite.
The concise description does not seem to be accurate, at least not to me.
I felt the author was all over the place with her topics of discussion and her transition between points was lacking which made reading this book even more difficult.
Also, not much was explained when it came to some people and most places.
Now I know some previous knowledge is expected from the reader but that is not a guarantee so some explanation would have been helpful.The erudite part, on the other hand, was quite accurate.
A excellent well written introduction to Celtic mythology
It's the classic, but it's a bit tough to read, and I love dense, academic, tough to read stuff. There is more up to date scholarship, but I think this is still the succinct summary to start with.
My first real introduction to the Celtic gods and goddess. Very informative and interesting.
The translation was so awful, I had a really hard time understanding what the author was trying to say.
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/14418200
Some good points but cloyingly academicDespite its relative brevity, this was a bit of a chore to muddle through.
While it referenced certain familiar Celtic tales, there was perhaps not enough analysis of the texts themselves.
Still, the author makes clear points: that the Gods of the Celtic world are not relegated to heavens but dwell on this earth; that The Greek pantheon shares certain like characters but there is far from a one-to-one correspondence; that "outsiders" (whether foreigners or odd folks within the tribe) could find a place through initiation that was both a service to the tribe but also outside its most rigid constrictions.
I read this book without any previous knowledge of Celtic Mythology. This book helped to highlight the important aspects to Celtic mythology and even compared it to Greek and Roman mythology to help illustrate how different this culture was from others of the same time. The only thing I wish this book had was a glossary to help with pronunciations of names and places. Other than that, it's a very handy little resource.
Really short, and I'm a bit bummed all the references are in French (this is a translation), but there was a ton of really cool information, a lot of which I had heard snippets of before, and I'll probably have to buy it because I'm silly and didn't take notes.
Despite being an older work, this was an accessible and still scholarly introduction to the major themes of Irish mythology. Definitely recommended as an introductory text.
This book is about categorizing the myths by symbology and purpose, but it doesn't go into great detail. It does preserve the weirdness of the myths though.
More of a thesis than a book. A bit sale to be honest
