https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2767.A_People_s_History_of_the_United_States
Update: I took this out of the library to attempt a reread...no changes, wanted to be fair.
In C.S. Lewis' Great Divorce there's a high churchman of the Church of England who's going on about how brave he was to take a secular stand and renouncing "traditional" beliefs.
This one goes right down the line from going for the worst take possible on Columbus to attacking the motives of everyone involved in the American Revolution.
An absolutely critical read.Especially in the current hagiography of praising America's past as the if there was some lost utopia to which Drumpf, Inc wants to return to "Make America Great Again", Zinn's open-eyed, factual, and documented history reveals that this is all pure right-wing propaganda.
Zinn's book remains a critical assessment of American history and a reminder that all of our rights from the Constitution to Social Security to Civil Rights to the Great Society were paid for with blood and sweat and must be preserved despite the constant attacks by Drumpf and his Republican cronies.
Howard Zinn saw a problem in the world, a great bias in our understanding of history, a history written by the winners--by tyrants and industrial magnates and warmongers--and so he did something about it: he created an equally flawed and opposed bias, just as carefully constructed to prop up his own one-sided conclusion, in an act which always calls to my mind Bob Dylan's line: "In a soldier's stance, I aimed my hand. At the mongrel dogs who teach. Fearing not that I'd become my enemy. In the in
His opponents can cite him of an example of 'all that is wrong with that point of view', while his supporters are attracted by the fact that his work tends to cast as the true heroes of history the uninvolved thinker, the academic who talks a great deal, attends protests, but does not get his own hands dirty, since in Zinn's approach, to interact directly with the imperfect world is to sully one's self.It's hardly surprising that, in the modern age of 'Entertainment News', as represented by the vehement spewing of incoherent bias, figures like Zinn and Chomsky should become elevated.
Besides being a good refresher in U.S. history, particularly from a non-nationalist perspective, I learned a lot about people's movements, and the ways that people (as opposed to 'the great men of history') have created change in our country.It's good to know that some of what Zinn covers in A People's History, even though unorthodox at the time he wrote it, has already filtered into public education.
HOWARD ZINN SHOULD BE DRAWN AND QUARTERED IN A PUBLIC FORUM!!!Seriously though, when I describe my highschool sophomore year history class I generally use the following sentence, "The theme of sophomore year history was: White people - bad, the downtrodden - good." Howard Zinn's "A People's History of the United States" was our textbook.
But Zinn's is book is much closer to propaganda than history.
Anyway, there's my take, do with it what you will, but when I count up the list of my most reviled books/ideas that I've ever been exposed to, Mr. Zinn's "A People's History of the United States" ranks up near the top of the list.
Certainly ‘America’ as a state does not come out of this very well, but I rather doubt that Zinn believes any other countries are much better; the point is only that the US is no different.Instead of memorable dates or acts of statesmanship, then, we have a history of the disenfranchised and the working-classes, from Columbus to the War on Terror, demolishing the fiction that the US is a ‘classless’ society and establishing the importance of protest and activism in achieving any meaningful social advances.In some cases this means coming at the familiar stories of American history from a new angle – as is the case with the settling of North America, which Zinn sees as straightforwardly genocidal, or his account of the ‘Roaring’ 1920s, which focuses on the country's staggering wealth disparity.
But there certainly are positives within most existing negatives (for more read A Patriots History of the United States).
from that emotional state you shoot missing the mark.But there's nothing new here, and you don't have to take my word.
If you're looking for different perspectives on the same material, try this short list: Revisiting America: Readings in Race, Culture, and Conflict; Lies My Teacher Told Me: Everything Your American History Textbook Got Wrong; and to add to the fire, Noam Chomsky's Hegemony or Survival: America's Quest for Global Dominance (yes, the one Hugo Chavez shot to the top of the bestsellers list); Failed States: The Abuse of Power and the Assault on Democracy; What We Say Goes: Conversations on U.S. Power in a Changing World; ad infinitum.
One common critique of Howard Zinn is that this book, if taught by itself, will present a skewed version of history that inspires a general hatred of rich people.
Then, I'm going to get into political rant mode, because I want to talk about why Zinn and the Tea Party SHOULD be best friends if people were more rational than they are.
I'm still willing to be proven wrong, though, if it turns out that the tea party actually DOES want to cut taxes, and not just assist the federal government in deep-throating big business a little bit more.
I vaguely remember some controversy surrounding a history book that exposed the darker side of American History, and whether or not it belonged next to traditional history text in schools.
It’s been a very long time since I picked up a history textbook of any kind.
I think you would have to be truly dense not to pick up on that, but again, if it’s true, then by all means, at least allow the book in the classroom as a companion to the more traditional studies.
If the schools feel that strongly about using the book in the classroom, then at least give them the chance to check it out of the school library.
If only all of us could be as perfect as Howard Zinn! Then we'd be able to get up on our high horse and look down our nose at all the miserable humanity in the world that have achieved more than he has.
And even though I am not always in agreement with its ideology, I think that the United States suffers from its lack of a strong leftist movement.Just recently, the political power of history has been dramatically demonstrated through the conflict over Civil War statues.
Minimizing this difference is dangerous.I also object to the way that Zinn makes it seem as though the United States is controlled by a vast conspiracy, or that all the elements of power work together in one seamless ‘system’ (one of Zinn’s favorite words).
That they eventually did says a lot for the foundation these men laid, which Zinn carefully avoids.So overall it is a good thing to read, but only with another history to balance it at hand.Update 4Jun2014: It's agenda is obvious enough that it was runner up as the least credible history book in print.http://www.theatlantic.com/national/a...Update 25Aug2014: According to this, the first slave owner in the U.S. was a black tobacco farmer.
He never mentions the information in this article:http://www.liveleak.com/view?i=ef2_13...which states that the first black slave owner was a black man who was an indentured servant, worked off his debt to become a freeman & tobacco farmer who then wound up 'owning' his own indentured, black servant.
"To give people a choice between two different parties and allow them, in a period of rebellion, to choose the slightly more democratic one was an ingenious mode of control," says Zinn, and you're like oh snap.PS and ETA, summer 2016: hello, Bernie Sanders fans!
(Even when protagonists do show up, Zinn often fails to put them in context: Mother Jones pops into the story a few times with zero explanation of who the hell she is.) It unfortunately makes the book feel somewhat like the textbooks you used to know and loathe during high school - just long lists of events and numbers and happenings, that make your eyes glaze over.
.DP: If America had never intervened, do we both agree that Kim Il-sung, the psychopathic dictator of North Korea, would have ruled over the entire Korean peninsula?HZ: I think that's probably true.DP: Do you believe that that would be a net moral or immoral result for the Korean people and the world?HZ: That would have been an immoral result, but the result of the war itself was also immoral -- I'm talking about the killing of several million people.
But the thing that I love so much about Zinn and this book is his consistent ability to portray the United States (as defined by its history) as so much more than a static, monolitichly motivated country.
Zinn isn't an America hater, he's a man who wants to tell its true story, one that fleshes out the beauty and mistakes of our national past, portraying a much more dynamic country than traditional history allows.Written in the 70's, this book admitedly now lacks some of the radical quality it possessed when it was published.
A well written, but severely flawed historical work.It reads more like sociology than history, with Zinn's concern for social groups and people's movements.
Now, at a certain point, those areas with overlap, but for the most part he seems less concerned with getting to a historical truth than preaching a message.
Normally, when a person wishes to "rewrite the history" of a nation/group/period, they go to primary sources from the time (letters, diaries, newspapers, etc).
Indeed, since this book takes secondary works and synthesizes the information, Zinn's "A People's History of the United States" is a tertiary book of history, and not a very good one, at that.
I read this for my American History course in college. Really enjoyed it! 4****
Certainly, America long had a larger middle class than most of the rest of the world, but as Zinn points out, we are "a middle class society governed for the most part by its upper classes." And what we see time after time (as in the present day) is that those who govern us have worked consistently for their own class first and for the country-as-a-whole second.Zinn takes a hard look at the slaughter of the native Americans, at the exploitation of blacks and poor whites, at the alliance between government and business interests, at the struggles for the abolition of slavery, for labor rights, for civil rights, for women's rights...
Zinn makes us do so and a lot of people don't like that (it's not polite to point out zits).
America has seen itself as perfect for a long time and we are taught that all the way from grade school through college (and every day on Fox News).
People say Zinn blames America for everything.
Honestly the bull shit has been so steeped the other way for so long, it forced his hand to go over the top in pointing our our flaws.
The truth is probably somewhere in the middle, but without making people take a look at the horrors committed, the overwhelming ideology of America right or wrong will continue.
Why write a history of the United States when you know it is one-sided and basically propaganda? I understand his stated reasons for writing the book but I think the truth is better than "this is propaganda to fight mainstream history that I think is propaganda." Any one-sided historical accounts are not worth people's time and knowingly writing one is a waste of time. The truth remains obscured.
It is "disrespectful of governments and respectful of people's movements of resistance." Always on the side of the people, it does not claim to be a "balanced" account of history.
A must read if you want a balanced understanding of American history.
This book is class conscious, not nation conscious.
It discusses America's major wars, but only to challenge their legitimacy and decry how they supplanted class issues with nation issues.
It celebrates examples from American history of powerless groups that organized to protect themselves from the powerful.
A brilliant interpretation of American class struggle from the arrival of Christopher Columbus to the 1980s.
And that's around the time I realized that my dad had been right all along: the rich really did control our country, through the banks and the government, and they really were evil- possessed of a monstrous selfishness that cared only for themselves, and nothing about the rest of us.So, you could say that when I picked up Zinn's book seven weeks ago, I was primed to be receptive to his message.
"Zinn will blow your hair back." Thanks Matt Damon. This book was long, drawn out and boring. Do I really care to learn about every single union leader and strike in America? No, but most U.S. History Teachers think you do. Do yourself a favor, pick an interesting sentence in the introduction and write a paper about that. Save yourself a lot of trouble.
The quintessential history book for American's who hate America.
My biggest problem with this book is not its existence but that it is too often introduced to young people, not as an alternative viewpoint, but as a "primary" guide to American history.
As someone who encourages free and open debate and believes America's greatest virtue is the ability of its people to criticize its leaders and speak freely about all issues, I think it is important to have books like this, inaccurate and misguided as they may be.
However, holding books like this up as texts to be tought to young students as opposed to a radical and minority viewpoint is just another indication of how disastrous our educational system has become.
Do you think the U.S. government's domination by business interests and the wealthy is a relatively recent development?
Think U.S. involvementin WWII was morally motivated?If you want to find out why you're wrong about all these things, if you want clear evidence that our government was created precisely to protect the interests of the wealthy elite against the working people, and is currently functioning exactly according to plan, if you know that the two-party system is a con game but aren't exactly sure how it works, if you want to understand what 9/11 and the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq are really about, then you need to read this book.
I said that in my opinion we had ample cause of war..."-President Polk in 1845, justifying the invasion of Mexico"The determination of our slaveholding President to prosecute the war, and the probability of his success in wringing from the people men and money to carry it on, is made evident, rather than doubtful, by the puny opposition arrayed against him.
the South Vietnamese could stabilize the military situation in Vietnam today."-President Gerald Ford, April 1975"By virtue of its military victory the United States is likely to have more influence in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries than any industrial nation has ever exercised."-NY Times business correspondent, after the Persian Gulf War"One percent of the nation owns a third of the wealth.
This is a history book intended to tell the stories that don't get told.
It tries to tell the "people's history"Yeah, it's biased.
Zinn admits as much.And, yeah, if it's the only history you read, you come away with one viewpoint and, perhaps, a bit of bile in your mouth.
It shouldn't be shocking to me that most of the stories highlight how greed runs rampant; economic inequality is the hidden menace that manifests shielded by more obvious issues of color and gender.
When I read Zinn's history, I read stories about how the people who were crushed by greed tried to fight back.
One of the most poorly written pieces of propaganda I've ever had the misfortune to read.
I'll give it this: it filled in a few blindspots in my knowledge of history.
There were several major events that I could swear I never learned about in history classes.
The upside is that, now that I've read it, I won't be talked down to by all the raving liberals in my life who insist it's on par with the fucking Bible.
But real, I mean.
كتاب ممتاز تناول التاريخ الأمريكي من وجهة نظر المهمشين - الهنود والسود والنساء والفقراء - ليعرض الكثير من المسكوت عنه أو على الأقل ما تم إهماله عمدا في العرض التقليدي للتاريخ الأمريكي الممجد.ملاحظات حول الكتاب:1.
أجمل فقرة في الكتاب وأجمل أفكاره والتي من الممكن أن تلخص الكثير من مشكلة التأريخ في رأيي هي التي تشير إلى محاولة عرض الحقيقة كاملة لكن مع التركيز على ما يهم من يكتب التاريخ فقط، لذلك يمكن كتابة سيرة ذاتية لشخص تستعرض أعماله العظيمة وإنجازاته ثم يذكر في جملة واحدة أو فقرة يتيمة كامل الأخطاء التي قام بها.
I think what that means is that people think that it does not show history as they are used to hearing it.
Zinn titles this book as a People's history.
It is not surprising when you realize that a lot of those significant people are white males.Zinn is refreshing to me in that he takes an anti-capitalist point of view without beating you over the head with it.
Well, maybe he does do a little building over the head in the last couple of chapters but in most of the book he talks about people's movements and times when the masses of people tried to take over their own lives rather than being a lead.
