https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/618399.The_Hunter
Needless to say, Parker, who luckily survived the attempt on his life, is not in a good mood when we first meet him, and Stark's introduction of his protagonist ranks as one of the best in crime fiction.Pissed at the world and determined to get revenge, Parker is stalking across the George Washington Bridge into New York City, a "big and shaggy" man, with "flat square shoulders and arms too long in sleeves too short....His face was a chipped chunk of concrete, with eyes of flawed onyx.
A very cold book about a very hard man. Master thief Parker has been left for dead, betrayed by his partner and his wife, and now he's out for revenge. If you like sociopath heroes, this is the noir for you, particularly if you also appreciate a spare, efficient prose style."The Hunter" has been filmed twice: 1) the stylish, nihilistic cult-classic Point Blank with Lee Marvin, and 2)the vicious, misanthropic Payback  with Mel Gibson. Both are worth watching.
When PARKER is after you...IT’S PRETTY MUCH  4.5 to 5.0 stars. I haven't read oodles of crime fiction but this is certainly one of the best I have read so far. Parker is a pinnacle of the noirish, badass main character. He's simply superb. In this first installment, Parker returns to New York to “even up the score” with some former crew-mates who double-crossed him and left him for dead. Uh…BIG MISTAKE (for them). Now Parker is out for payback and it's pretty much lights out for his former assoc
When PARKER is after you...IT’S PRETTY MUCH 
Parker is a pinnacle of the noirish, badass main character.
Now Parker is out for payback and it's pretty much lights out for his former associates who soon come to the realization that they are in a world of hurt.
He will keep coming until one of you is dead and HE DOES NOT NEGOTIATE!!!
Definitely not a "good guy" but he is the kind of bad guy that you can't help but root for even when he is doing some pretty naughty things.
It is the Richard Stark novel that includes eight or nine full page illustrations by Darwyn Cooke.I can not recommend this book highly enough.Not is it a great example of great writing by Mr. Westlake, it is also an amazingly well produced book.
I read the original years ago, I could not pass up this new version with illustrations by Darwyn Cooke.
It's beautifully produced.
IDW have also produced a graphic novel of this first installment of the Parker series.
Be aware.IDW have promised the next installment of the series is to be published soon by them.
Mal used the money he took from Parker to pay off a debt he owed to the Outfit, and now he’s got good connections to the mob in New York.
Parker doesn’t care who got the money or who Mal knows, he just wants to satisfy his grudges.It’d been a while since I’d read any of the early Parker novels, and I was a little worried about how they’d hold up.
With Parker, we’d get the prototype to the anti-hero professional thief, and there are countless fictional characters that owe a debt to him.
But Parker doesn't die and comes looking for revenge!
But will revenge be enough for Parker ...?Wow. I'd been looking forward to reading Richard Stark's Parker books for quite some time and I'd say I'm hooked with the first one.
Parker's a relentless force of nature with few redeeming qualities.
The writing shows just how versatile a writer Donald Westlake was, powerful yet sparse.
Westlake didn't waste words on this one.The plot isn't revolutionary but the writing and the execution make it a home run.
The viewpoints shift back and forth from Parker and his intended victim.
That way I can save up and by signed first editions.About being a cheapskate, I chose Nook over Kindle because I can take that little Nook to a brick and mortar B&N and read a book for free for an hour at a time per day.
The Saucer Magnolias and the Mock Orange bushes are completely confused.Yesterday was the perfect afternoon to head over to B&N, have a coffee and finish off Parker in The Hunter.
A cold beer and a bloody burger is more appropriate fare when reading Richard Stark.Yes, Parker's debut is a heist caper.
Betrayed and left for dead by his wife, double-crossed by Mal, his partner in crime, Parker rather methodically takes on person after person on the way to getting his money back.
He’s a professional thief, has ice only in his veins, is not particularly sweet to women (having been dumped by his wife), and will kill if he has to.
He’s James Bond if Bond says things like this to set up his revenge: “I'm going to drink his blood, I'm going to chew up his heart and spit it into the gutter for the dogs to raise a leg at.
It has in fact most of the elements to make it a classic in its genre: a powerful lead, a heist gone bad, betrayal among crooks, women trouble, surprising twists towards the end.Parker is a professional thief.
That scene was simply not very realistic for me  (hide spoiler)] )In a promising development for future entries in the series, Parker goes back to his criminal career in a new heist by the end of this book, proving he has the brains and not only the brawn to be a leader of the pack.
I will always have to wonder if he just didn't know about Westlake's evil twin, Richard Stark, or if perhaps he wanted to protect his shy, virginal daughter from the likes of a man like Parker.He knew he was hard, he knew that he worried less about emotion than other people.Calling Parker hard is something of an understatement.
And LOOK OUT anyone who stands in his way.
I had to laugh out loud when Parker uttered these words to one man - "Watch your driving, there's a lot of kids."It's no spoiler to say that Parker will live to wreak havoc another day.
Parker is a BAAAD man!
Actually, a better descriptive would be "dick".
Parker is a dick.
I don't remember the last time I met a main character this reprehensible...Perhaps Humbert Humbert from Lolita, but he was more of a perverted douche.Now, that's not to say Parker doesn't have his reasons for committing various murders and beating his wife to the point of torture.
He was double crossed, after all.
Of course, this happened during a heist in which he planned to do the double crossing.
Dick.
If you're looking for gritty crime set in a nasty underworld, The Hunter a good place to look.
If you're looking for top-shelf writing, look elsewhere.
I like my fantasy grimdark, my horror hopeless, and my sleuths mean. Parker fits the bill here, because he is absolutely vicious. He is not a traditional sleuth, however. His mysteries generally involve him looking for particular people to murder and organizations to rob. If you want a good example of Parker's personality, just imagine the X-Men's Wolverine without powers and without a shred of conscience. This book is a really fun ride and I will definitely be checking out more from this series.

I'm going to peel the skin off him and rip out his veins and hang him with them.”Parker is one angry man, he's been crossed, left for dead, thrown in jail for vagrancy, had to cross an entire continent and now he's a hunter who wants payback at point blank range.Knowing a little about this series of books and how highly fellow pulp fans rate the first book, published in 1962 as The Hunter, I've been on the lookout for them for well over a year now.
Could you possibly realise that this short, brutal novel would have numerous sequels, that there’d be Hollywood adaptations, countless imitations, and that when twenty-five years later you get chance to write a prestigious Oscar-bait movie, the English director would actually ask whether they could credit it to Richard Stark rather than Donald Westlake?
Was there any way he could possibly have conceived of such a thing?To put it into further context: in the same year ‘The Hunter’ came out, Westlake also published novels (under a variety of pseudonyms) called ‘361’; ‘The Sin Drifter’; ‘Strange Affair’; and ‘Sin Hellcat’.
(hide spoiler)]I couldn't give the book 5 stars because Parker broke character in several important ways: 1) He never gives a thought to paying off the 'bank' nor did he acknowledge that he knew the position he was putting his hooker informant friend in.
In later books, Parker does deal with double crosses, but his rigid code makes him let the other person break first.
(hide spoiler)]3) The last job was too much.
The way Parker gets his money in both paints his character in a different light, but I think the brutality of his methods in "Payback" worked well for the screen.
i think the problem with the hunter lies in that, this being the first of the series, stark felt he had to create a firm foundation, establish character, theme, tone, and all the other literary junk that doesn't appear to weigh down the subsequent novels (but it's all there; just masterfully invisible) -- what we love about the parker novels is how stark (pun intended) and economical and straight-to-the-point they is.
not so much with the first in the series.
i searched for the albert king version but no results.
blue cheer's version is pretty great, too.
well you'll see this coming a mile away) Mal is taken care of the book really starts to get kind of loopy and Parker stops being the tough professional and flips into a tough psychopath hellbent on making the mob give him the money that had been stolen from him.
It would have been more in character for Parker to have killed Mal and then walked away, leaving himself in clear and able to work again another day.
While finding the man may prove difficult for Parker, one thing is for sure, he’ll get his revenge or die trying.While I’ve read all of Darwyn Cooke’s tremendous graphic novel adaptations as well as watched the late 90s movie “Payback”, I’ve yet to check out the original source material - Stark’s acclaimed Parker novels.
He’s a man driven by his own sense of what’s right in a world where everything is wrong.
Everything he does in The Hunter makes sense - I didn’t find myself questioning his actions or the actions of others.Both the writing and the dialogue are sharp and precise, like a surgeon’s scalpel.
This is what hard-boiled crime fiction is all about.
In this loose cannon of a novel, the first one in a long-running, popular series, Parker, a professional heistman, literally walks across the George Washington bridge into New York City with nothing but the clothes on his back and revenge on his mind against his backstabbing weakling of a wife and an ex-partner that double-crossed him and left him for dead.
But don't get it twisted, this is still a very well-written novel filled with guns, fists, money, sex, and hard vengeance.
Like I said: what hard-boiled crime fiction is all about.
“I'm going to drink his blood, I'm going to chew up his heart and spit it into the gutter for the dogs to raise a leg at. I'm going to peel the skin off him and rip out his veins and hang him with them.”-Parker Betrayed by wife, double-crossed by partner, left for death by both. Revenge incarnate, thy name is Parker.For many years, my acquaintance with the professional thief - and sociopath, more than likely - occurred purely through adaptations. The first, that surreal, French new wave inspire
Revenge incarnate, thy name is Parker.For many years, my acquaintance with the professional thief - and sociopath, more than likely - occurred purely through adaptations.
When I heard rumblings in 2008 that cartoonist Darwyn Cooke - himself a longtime fan of the Parker novels, and probably the coolest man in comics - had convinced IDW to publish stylish graphic novel adaptations of Richard Stark's series, it's no hyperbole to say I was absolutely pumped.
I'm certain Cooke's heart swelled with pride for having introduced Parker to a whole new generation of readers, as well it should have.
This is a classic hard boiled noir novel.
Written in 62.
Parker our hero, it could be a first name or a surname.
A classic tale with precise words with no word out of place.
A tale of getting back what you lost in the past and how to pay back all the friends and foes that you met on your adventure I really enjoyed the book but as it’s written in 62 is quiet dated to today’s standards, but it’s a great series opener and I may read the next two books in this series in 2018.
By part two of this book I was experiencing what I can only describe as some sort of anticipatory excitement...not exactly blood lust, more the kind of feeling you get when you've lit a firework and are waiting for it to explode, or that moment when some rube spills his beer on Jackie Chan or Jason Statham and you know some serious ass-kicking is about to ensue...I loved this book for its simplicity.
Like Parker, the author sticks to his point.
There are no unnecessary side stories or romances (though you do get to live vicariously through Parker's mark for a while).
Read this when you feel like taking a swing at the world.
Parker is a bank robber, left for dead as his gang members manipulate his wife into killing him after a big score. Manipulative Mal uses the money to buy his way back into the good graces of the Outfit. Parker returns to NYC to even the score, and has to draw Mal out from the comforts of working for a criminal syndicate. Parker is a major bad ass, and no stranger to threatening people and following through on those threats.
Westlake passed away in 2008 at the age of 75 after writing almost 100 books.
I was so glad to finally read a book by Westlake (Stark) because I've been actively trying to read all of the earlier authors and the characters which are and have been part of our popular mystery/noir/P.I. books and culture for so many years.
When I read those short sentences which were on page 19 in the book I read, I thought to myself, "I really love this guy's writing.
By the way, this book was made into a movie staring Lee Marvin and I can see him playing Parker.
You know I suspect we all have what we think of as "guilty pleasures" or possibly at least things we enjoy that we question ourselves about.
One of my "guilty pleasures" is that I like a movie that I'm not really proud of liking as the protagonist has no redeeming qualities.
Remember how I said the character in the movie had absolutely no redeeming qualities?
Well the movie character is a sweetheart compared to Parker.
I can recommend the book for quality of story and plan to read the next.
One of the rare times where the movie (Payback) is better than the book.
As many people may know the hunter (and payback) tells the story of Parker, how is seeking revenge after been betrayed, shot and left for dead by his partner and his wife.
But what many people may not know, is originally this was going to be a one off book, but the authors publisher convinced him to change the ending and offered him a three book deal.
This deal has lead to the series now consisting in 24 books with the same protagonist.
"The office women looked at him and shivered. They knew he was a bastard, they knew his big hands were born to slap with, they knew his face would never break into a smile when he looked at a woman. They knew what he was, they thanked God for their husbands, and still they shivered. Because they knew how he would fall on a woman in the night. Like a tree."
Parker kills a couple innocents who happened to be in his way.
He tells them who he’s going to kill if he doesn’t get his way.
Parker is the main bad guy, a brilliant strategist.
He partners with different guys for different jobs in each book.If you are new to the series, I suggest reading the first three and then choose among the rest.
The rest can be read as stand alones.The first three books in order:								4 stars.
The Outfit.Read these two in order:5 stars.
Butcher’s Moon (Bk #16)Read these four in order:4 ½ stars.
Firebreak (Bk #20)(not read) Nobody Runs Forever (Bk #22)2 ½ stars.
This is first re-read of the most important noir series imho, a seminal series of books and with one of the best literary characters i have ever read.
The first time i read the books my memory, assessment and emotional importance told me The Hunter, Butcher Moon, Slayground was the best three books of them all but i was worried The Hunter seemed better because of the nostalgic first read, first book reasons.
This second read it was even more fascinating reading the theme of the whole series that the world of the books is filled with machine like world of criminals, organized or the freelancing pro heisters.
