https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13335037-divergent
Because someone can tell me “oh but we learn about that in book 2!” all they want but that doesn’t change the fact that after book 1 I’m thinking to myself “well that was completely stupid.” If you can’t convince me from book 1 to keep going then we’ve got a problem, right?So as you already probably know, this book is about this dystopian society that is divided up into five factions, based on personality traits, point being that you are assigned a career/lifestyle based on what you’re like.
There is NO WAY that when they set up the system people were like you know what's a good idea?
Running, jumping, falling, fist-fighting, knife-fighting, shooting, running, punching - all that while she, a special Divergent snowflake, learns to fit in among the Dauntless, the Gryffindor-brave (read: stupidly reckless) faction of this universe.¹ (view spoiler)[Tris on purpose nonfatally shoots two bad guys (one of whom tried to actually rape her and kill her) - but kills one of her friends (who was mind-controlled via the actions of one of the aforementioned villains) on purpose, when a disabling shot would have worked just as well.
The novel has good characters, but they are not quite as interesting and compelling as they could have been; it has a lot of action, but the justification for the amount of violence involved is not quite adequate; it has a cute romance, but it never quite makes your heart contract in that sweet, painful way (you know what I am talking about, don't you?); the concept of factions is a unique one but not quite plausible; the explanation what a Divergent actually is is not quite climactic; finally, except for one plot twist (p 415), the story takes a rather predictable road.I liked Divergent.
I know it's not fair for me to think this way, I should be looking at her on her own merits.
Which is not attractive.The worst thing - and I know I'm about to sound like a real dick here - is that I've realized she is actually pretty stupid.
it's such a ridiculous, shallow idea.
Even worse, she seems to think that only the very rare person, the very special few, are able to combine these traits in relatively equal proportions.
And just like you, she sure knows how to make some money.Still, I don't think I will be continuing the relationship.
You see, this way you are safe in your tight little community cocoon and can spend your days bitching about how fucked-up those other factions are for choosing what is clearly a far less awesome way of living.And you certainly never have to worry that your batshit-crazy intelligence-loving neighbours are keeping busy by plotting your evil demise.
The city carries on in a complete state of peace, love and mung beans.o_OBitch please.Now, what I would like to know is, which facking genius came up with THAT idea?
The absolute BEST thing about Divergent is that Tris rates a high BADASS on the awesome-o-meter.
I ditched the trolley I'd been pushing and stormed toward them, my mind blank of anything but ruthless fury.The next part was like out of some stupid romance novel.
Mr Kennedy pulled back on my arm and said, "No. There is no way you're going over there!" He took off the baby sling, handed it to me and sent me to go put the groceries and baby in the car while he handled it.Usually that's the part of the novel where the female heroine swoons or something but I only got angrier.
But I wanted to kick that man's ass.
Over all, I thoroughly loved this novel.
the world is a tough and inconsistent sphere.because Daughter of Smoke and Bone is a much much better written book.
she is lush and lyrical and there is a gravity to her writing that makes you stop every so often to murmur, "well said, laini taylor, well said..."this book is just fun.fun fun fun fun fun fun fun funthis is unexpected pillowfight, marshmallow syrup on strawberry ice cream, kitten in a bag fun.it was recommended to me on here by a different karen, and i borrowed it from work almost immediately.
that makes no sense!!" because that's how that game is played.
Inside the city, humanity is divided into five factions based on moral imperatives.
Abnegation values self-denial and community service.
They are the community's leaders, since they alone can be trusted not to be power-hungry.Our heroine Tris is born into Abnegation, but during her choosing ceremony at age sixteen, she decides to join the Dauntless, who value fearlessness and serve as the society's soldiers and guards.
The novel follows her through her initiation training, during which Tris discovers that their society is not as harmonious as she once believed.
What this means is not at first clear, but it will make Tris's life very dangerous.
THE SEVEN STAGES OF READING HELL: When You Realize You're Going to be the Odd Man Out (Once Again) With a Wildly Hyped and Popular Book that Everyone Else Lovedas Presented by:The Coterie of Emotive Kittehs (courtesy of Google Images)December 13, 2011Page 30:Page 77:Page 145:Page 270:Page 354:Page 404:Page 475:Final Analysis of my Reading Experience:(What? You didn't think I was going to show a kitteh with a knife in its eye, did you?)Rating: A (Very) Generous 1 StarThe Moral of this Review:I should not read any more YA dystopian novels.THE END
I wish I could be funny like my Mortal Instrument reviews, but my intellectual has kicked in because this book manages to be defined as part of a genre that I have always adored, especially in short stories.Before I begin, my usual disclaimer that this review will contain logic, griping, complaining, spoilers, and the general deconstruction of everything that the fans hold dear.
The Abnegation (selfless people), Dauntless (brave people), Erudite (intelligent people), Amity (friendly people), Candor (honest people), and the Factionless.
Despite the little bit of information on the factions, the reader knows almost nothing about this society Roth has set up.
Okay, okay, I completely understand why people could really like this and also why people could find it a huge disappointment. As for the latter... well, this was one of the most highly anticipated works of dystopian fiction to be released this year and the fact of the matter is that it just really doesn't work as a dystopia. Or, at least, what seems to be the general definition of a dystopia.I can highlight the problem really well by referring to a conversation I had with my mum when she saw t
Basically, it's where the author imagines a hypothetical world that's usually set in the future and takes a relevent political or social issue or issues and creates a fictional society that could possibly be what might happen if humanity was to follow a certain idea or movement or perhaps even carry on behaving the way they are.
What's the point?This isn't dystopia, it means nothing, it sends no message, it won't ever happen.Alright, here it is: I COULD NOT PUT IT DOWN!!I know, I'm ashamed, I'm a traitor to real dystopian fiction everywhere.
Basically, the author explains that the society was split up into five factions, Candor (the honest), Abnegation (the selfless), Dauntless (the brave), Amity (the peaceful), and Erudite (the intelligent), because of...
It was like a joke it was all so stupid.Speaking of the Dauntless, what the F is with them and their trains?
It wasn't like "The Hunger Games" when the games actually served a purpose, these initiation fights and trials seemed so trivial that I couldn't care less one way or another what happened in them.
Which means that there's a lot of pressure riding on any book to live up to its promise, particularly one that comes from a 23-year-old author who has already landed a 3-book deal and signed away the movie rights.After so many big dollar and wearisome projects such as Halo or Matched, it's a pleasure to find that every once in awhile, there's a good reason behind the fanfare.
Tris makes the decision to leave her old faction, Abenegation, in favor of Dauntless, and the majority of the book focuses on the dangerous trials that the new initiates must endure in order to find out whether they qualify to stay.
I want more… NOW!Divergent by Veronica Roth is one of the more highly anticipated YA dystopic novels set to come out next month, so I’m very fortunate for my Street Corner Booker friend for sharing this great read with me on our ARC tour.
I’ve found a series that will keep me eager for the coming releases, and I can’t wait to read more of Tris and her crew of Divergents!The story takes place in an undermined future where the world is divided into factions, including Candor (honest), Abnegation (selflessness), Dauntless (daring), Erudite (knowledgeable), and Amity (peaceful).
This book did it right and I just can’t wait for the next release.
Divergent - the Walmart of Young AdultEnjoy the selflessness of Katnis? Love the Harry Potter houses? Adore the will-they-won't-they love from Twilight? Well, here's the watered down combination of every YA series out there.  There's Tris  - the most  annoying  main character I've met in a while. The pendulum swings from - from "oh look at me I am such an innocent little abnegation gal - I don't even look into a mirror cause I'm so selfless" to (and this is within a couple of chapters) "I'm the
This book focuses far too much on forcing the relationship and shoe-horning Tris into  the self-sacrificing hero role that there's little time for anything else...like a plot.So, I could go on...and on...and on with my nitpicking on this series but instead, I will leave you with my favorite scene of the book.The Shower Scene aka the  let's get Tris naked ...BECAUSE REASONSThis is the scene where Tris learns that she can't fit in her clothes cause her thigh muscles were SO BIG after training in dauntless for a couple of weeks.
Whoa.Breathe, Stephanie. Breathe.  This.Was.Good. It seems like every dystopian book that comes out now is being compared to The Hunger Games. Well, if there was ever a book that might come close to that comparison it would be Enclave and now Divergent.Veronica Roth's debut novel Divergent is getting some major hype and you know what? I think it deserves it. It's no secret that I have a dystopian society book addiction right now, but Divergent is just what I love in a book. It had loads of actio
I mean I could go on and on here.Now, I know what you are thinking, "B-b-b-but what about your status updates complaining about the world building?!" Yes, kiddies it's true, I did complain.
But, even with these world flaws, I still really loved this book!Divergent thrusts you into a world where society is divided into five factions each representing a particular virtue.
In her world when you reach the age of 16 you must choose which faction you want to join.
But, once you get past the sketchy world building the book is good.
HELL YES.Does it smell like Hunger Games in here to you?Check out the video for this Hunger Games parody at the end of the article Part Two of The Best YouTube Book Trailers.Imagine a culture where everyone is separated into groups based on their one key defining character trait.One of these five traits: Honesty.
Now known as Tris, she gets thrown into a world of speeding trains, speeding bullets, and unusual looking lead male characters.You want to know about our Dauntless hottie?Here are a few snippets of description: The corners of his mouth turn down naturally.
I am also just fine if the author wants to simply grab our attention with a dystopian world and use it as a springboard for introducing us to the story they “really want to tell” (e.g., Sea of Glass, Genesis, Native Tongue and Parable of the Sower).For me these dark, distorted mirrors of our present do not need to stand up to nit-picking dissection or rigorous extrapolative analysis.
As it is, I think the second half of the book was excellent and sets itself up very well for the next installment.
One of my first reads. Enjoyed every second reading this.
I read this book before actually watching the film, and I'm going to be honest and say that I prefer the book.
Sixteen year old Tris Prior lives in a futuristic world in which society is divided into factions.
There is; Abnegation, which values selflessness.
Dauntless which values bravery.
Beatrice Prior (Tris) is a member of Abnegation with her brother Caleb.
Tris shows Abnegation, Erudite and Dauntless and because of this, it means she is something called Divergent.
He is known as Four because during his own Dauntless initation, it was revealed that he only has four years.
Here is the thing, If the world doesn't make sense to me, I'm not going to enjoy the book as much as I could enjoy it.So, here are my questions-Why, at the beginning, can Beatrice look in the mirror ONLY when her mom cuts her hair?
She is told to keep this secret from the very beginning of the book when she first learns that she is divergent.
But the people that told Tris to keep her divergent status a secret didn't know that the Erudite were trying to control the Dauntless.
I did not like this book.
I started reading it at about 3pm in the afternoon and finished at about 9:30.
When I finished I sat there, stunned.
In awe.
It is one of the best Young Adult novels I've ever read.
One of the best novels I've ever read, if we're going to go there, too.
It was, in a word, flawless.
How can you "like" flawless?
How can you "love" it?
That the whole world hasn't read it yet, because my need to talk about it is so fierce that I barely want to do anything else.
I'm not a big fan of dystopian but I LOVE THIS! Four is now my new book boyfriend. Well…. he is at least my back up in case I break up with Travis one day.
When I was finished this book I could only think of three things: Uwe Boll, Asylum Films, and the Sy-fy Channel.
Simply put, I did not like this book.
I tried to like it.
The beginning of the book starts off like Matched.
We meet some people guarding a fence (that I am still clueless about), but apparently said guard duty is a job that is kind of like punishment.
I felt like I was listening to the thoughts of a robot.
In this book the human girl gets shot and goes with the flow.
The book was engaging and I had to continue reading.Sadly, Divergent, by yet another female American writer Veronica Roth, uses the very same formula.
Let's read books with new and not recycled plots.
I know Veronica Roth, a graduate of creative writing, has many many other nicer plots in mind and let's encourage her to write a different novel so she has a better use for her creative juices.(2) This book is for young girls.
So, if you are a girl, DON'T KID YOURSELF that you enjoyed the killing here just like how the young male readers would have enjoyed it.
WHOA!!Everyone....STOP!And make way for this young kickass heroine...Beatrice Prior. 'Those who want power and get it live in terror of losing it.That's why we have to give power to those who do not want it.' Okay,so by now nearly everyone has read this book.This is a book which needs no introduction.So,I'll try to keep storyline short.(As short as I can for a book of nearly 500 pages!)This books depicts a dystopian Chicago world where the society is divided into five groups or factions as they
for their various problems,formed different groups or factions against it.Now,the system works in a way that people of Abnegation rule the government as they are supposed to be selfless.People of Dauntless will guard and protect because they are supposed to be brave and so on.Anyways,now nearly this whole book is about the process of INITIATION.So what is this initiation?Every 16 year old from every faction gets an aptitude test which tells them which faction are they cut out for among the five.But that is just meant to help them choose,of which faction do they want to become a member of.Once they choose,they will become initiates who will have to complete the initiation process to become members.But if they fail,they become factionless.Now,sounds good.Right?But...Not everything is as it seems!!In reality,people who leave their faction and choose others are branded as traitors and they have to leave their families behind.So,we see our 16 year old Beatrice (belonging to Abnegation) in a lot of confusion.Her aptitude test result was inconclusive.
One of my favorites books this year, no question about it!I've been trying to write this review for the last two hours...
I apologize that this review is going to be incoherent, and mostly fangirly, but that's the state of mind this book has left me in!
Yes, I'll admit it, meh.
You should pick it up too!There are many things that make this a great book.
I mean connection in a way that these characters meant something to me, that I felt their pain, their happiness, their despair.
That's what connection means to me.
A book with its ups and downs.  ROLLERCOASTER OR FERRIS WHEEL?  Politeness is deception in pretty packaging. This novel was a rollercoaster for me. Maybe it should be a ferris wheel (pun intended) but no, it was a rollercoaster since at some moments I was quite high, real excited about the story, but at some moments I was way down, getting into my nerves.It wasn't easy to rate the book, since I liked the general story in the novel, but I really liked several unexpected twists in key moments of
Maybe it should be a ferris wheel (pun intended) but no, it was a rollercoaster since at some moments I was quite high, real excited about the story, but at some moments I was way down, getting into my nerves.It wasn't easy to rate the book, since I liked the general story in the novel, but I really liked several unexpected twists in key moments of it.So, it was hard to reflect my overall reading experience in 3 or 4 stars.
However, in Divergent, the heroine, Tris is working hard to fit in the system, of course, she has some doubts here and then, but in general, she is playing along with the dystopian society and its rules.
هر سال در یک روز مشخص، نوجوانان شانزده ساله باید در آزمون استعداد سنجی شرکت کنند تا بدون توجه به فرقه‌ ای که در آن به دنیا آمده‌ اند تصمیم بگیرند که باقی عمر خود را در کدام فرقه سپری کنند.
بئاتریس پرایر، شانزده ساله عضو خانواده‌ ای از فرقه ی فداکاری ست، اما گویا میاندیشد که خصلت از خودگذشتکی در ذات او وجود ندارد.
بئاتریس در آزمون استعداد سنجی شرکت می‌کند، ولی نتایج آزمونش شگفت‌ انگیز است.
It's helps the plot yes but how it presents that's what make me annoyed.=====*****=====But after all it's really thrilled ,as I said I loved the message of the book, the sitting was really Hard to visualize for me while reading the first quarter of the book,But It became fine later- with some of the internet search and the help ofhttp://www.divergentlexicon.com/places=====*****=====The Characters*************I liked the character or the Brave,Selfless, Loyal to her family..Beatrice "Tris" Just with the exception when she over describe the long fingers of Four on her body she turns into very dully Bella from Twilight.***************I liked also -almost very much- Natalie "Beatrice's mother", and she made the visiting day in the middle of the story one of its greatest moments.(view spoiler)[But hate seeing her dying, specially with a sleeveless shirt!!!!
