https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1835983.The_River_s_End
John Keith has been hunted like a fox for the last three years by a man named Derwent Conniston, a Monty hunter.
In the weeks that follow however, Keith and Conniston bond in a friendship stronger than death.
But Conniston dies before he manages to utter one final important message about his past, and Keith must bluff his way either to a new life or the hangman.
A great many complications come up, Keith fools most, but can he pull the wool over the discerning eyes of Shan Toug?
Worse, blackmail, murder and a sinister plot unfold from Shan Toug's kimono.
Curwood knows how to write a rollicking good tale! I've reread this more times than I can count.
convict John Keith and Constable Durand Conniston share a secret-they both look alike.
After chasing Keith across the frozen wasteland of the frozen Canadian North for four years, Conniston isn't going to be able to make it back-*sob*-and he has come to greatly admire and like this man he hunted down.
But his biggest obstical turns out to not only be getting past the Head Commander, but Shan Tung, a Chinaman known for his photographic memory, and a horribly confusing surprise from Conniston's past that he neglected to tell Keith about.
I would have rated this book higher if not for the racism. It is a swashbuckling adventure tale.
I totally get that old books often have their racial perspectives that aren't the same as ours, but dang, this one was driven and driven, as if it didn't have anything to do with a white man finding a Chinese repulsive, but to emphasize the impending assault of a white woman as some sort of fascinating horror for the reader.
But then I remembered this weird yucky feeling from some of Burrough's Tarzan books, those fascinated horrors for the sex drives of exotic savages and their mental flaws, yeah, that's what the whole Shan Tung thing in this book reminded me of.
Yet another chapter in the popular genre of the time where two strangers look enough alike to switch identities. A man is accused of murder and takes off to the Great White North. He's pursed by a RCMP who ends up catching up to him, realizing the suspect is innocent, also realizing they look incredibly alike, and then conveniently dies. The hero takes on the RCMP's identity so he can return to civilization and clear his/suspect's name and find the real criminal.
This is the second novel that I have read by James Oliver Curwood and I really enjoy his writing. His work is rather difficult to find but I have been able to locate several on Kindle, many are free. Curwood's writing style is very reminiscent of Zane Grey, it was also written in the same time period. If you are a fan of Zane Grey, Louis Lamour, or Tom Gill, you should give a look at Curwood's work, I think you will enjoy it.
Good read! When I was younger I read several of James Oliver Curwood's books. I'd almost forgotten him. I found this one as a free Kindle book and decided to give it a shot. Quite dated, and no longer politically correct of course, but still a basically great read! Bless Amazon, Gutenberg, et al for making all these older classics available.
Kind of a huck finn vs the pirates tale. I LOVED IT! Had to read this one carefully since my copy was over 60 years old and falling apart.
Nom
