https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/582675.Berserker
The chosen foe was no longer a red dot, but a great forbidding castle, tilted crazily, black against the stars.A somewhat conventional review…The chronicles of Man’s battle against the merciless Berserker machines starts here, with the first book in Saberhagen’s Berserker series.
I’m not sure whether the sequels are put together in the same fashion, and whether they are bona fide novels, but I’ll certainly be wanting to find out.It’s pretty good stuff, this, ranging from space battles to poignant introspective moments in the flip of a few pages.
So, these terrifying remnants of some long-forgotten conflict are also slightly… odd.That said, there are one or two sequences that remind of (dare I say it?)… Terminator… but in Space!!
Con questa decina di racconti, indipendenti fra loro ma con un chiaro filo conduttore e ben collegati da una voce fuoricampo credibile, Saberhagen inizia a dipingere un affresco spaziale degno della migliore fantascienza classica.
I racconti sono molto diversi fra loro: si passa dalle descrizioni di tattica militare al fanatismo religioso, dalle lotte di potere alla sagace presa in giro della società, dalla disillusa analisi di uomini piccoli piccoli alla celebrazione del grande leader carismatico.
Un grande inizio per un'epopea spaziale poco conosciuta, eppure degna dei Grandi della fantascienza.
Consiglio questa lettura a tutti, non solo agli appassionati.
Although I haven't read this book in decades, I remembered most of the stories pretty well.
Pretty good, although I'd recommend reading them separately for the best impact.The stories are tied together by a hokey alien reading minds over many years & introducing each story.
Since the stories were separate, Saberhagen had to establish who the Berserkers were in each story.
As an audio book, it got really old.There are a lot of stories for such a slim volume & they're all quite well done.
Saberhagen started writing these stories in the 60's & I was quite impressed by how well the stories held up to the technological changes we've undergone.
3.0 to 3.5 stars. This is the first of the "Berserker" books I have read and I was impressed by the background concept and the world created by Saberhagen. The book is really a collection of loosely connected short stories describing different groups of humans battling the Berserker war machines. Good, solid SF stories based on an outstanding concept.
The first story ("Without a Thought") is very good and describes a way in which the Turing Test could be performed successfully without any actual intelligence.
Another very good story is "Stone Place," a direct transposition of the battle of Lepanto to interstellar war, with the Venusians performing the part of the Venetians (:-)ESPAÑOL: Colección de los once primeros relatos cortos sobre los berserker, máquinas inteligentes construidas por una civilización alienígena para destruir toda vida biológica.
Otra historia muy buena es "Stone Place", transposición directa de la batalla de Lepanto a la guerra interestelar, con los venusianos interpretando el papel de los venecianos (:-)
The pure alien menace of the Berserkers makes for potent stories, though some of the sketches in this first volume are rather rough.I appreciate the way Saberhagen connects these shorter tales by frame story, which works better here than in many similar collections, since the stories often share characters and events.
Some of the connecting stories are weaker and, while we are provided many smaller concluding arcs, the longer arc of the collection never really delivers a solid conclusion, though Saberhagen aims for one.I also often wished he would push more with the ideas and themes of his stories.
Interesting take. Wandering doomsday weapons from an older civilization confront man. I read these years ago...they span from the most serious to open comedy.
Who wants to read about big, life-snuffing warships?A decade and change later, I did, and let me tell you, I am so glad that I picked this book up.I'm tempted to ask, Where has Saberhagen been all my life--but I wrote the answer to that question up above.
Saberhagen has been there for decades--long before I picked up my first fiction, and all throughout my teenage years and my early twenties.
Through this diverse array of characters, coupled with concise passages that touch upon their inner lives, Saberhagen makes the war real and human.I don't often read space opera, but I do crave it from time-to-time.
Fred Saberhagen wrote or co-wrote a series of seventeen books, some of them anthologies of short stories, about the Berserkers.
In the beginning the Berserkers use Deathstar like ships to overwhelm their enemy but as they face defeat after defeat change their tactics.The real heart of these books is the human element as each protagonist in turn must find their own brand of courage and intelligence in order to defeat the enemy.I loved these stories as a young teen and I think they hold up well taken at face value.
Molto bello il tono generale della storia di questi pochi umani confinati nei sotterranei e della loro lotta indietro nel tempo contro queste macchine assassine iperintelligenti. Un po' meno i riferimenti alla storia umana, avrei preferito una astrazione più spinta.Belle le tre storie nel passato e bellissimo il rapporto con la smemorata.
It has been a long time, since I enjoyed reading scifi. This is a very interesting concept. The characters are realistic. I really can't understand, how can some people not like this book.
This is a collection of short stories from the 1960s about humans fighting alien robotic killing machines.
The first few stories dealt with clever ways humans outwitted the machines, including one where a space pilot had to come up with a way to beat a berserker in a checkers-like game while under the influence of a ray that prevents his brain from functioning.
The later stories have more of a continuing plot showing how even while fighting an enemy determined to wipe out all life, humans are still greedy, power-hungry, and traitorous.
Sometimes regardless how a story may age, or may read face value, respect is due.
The technology, the starship flights, the epic battles above the sky; the singular reason for the concept alone has influenced the genre to tell a better version of essentially the same story makes Berserker an underrated mark in storytelling history.
Many ignore it and yet, unbeknownst to them, witness the story being told over and over in all its various forms.
Video games, comic books; in movies everywhere, explaining that maybe the influence that residues is more palatable for people than the content actually inside.
The war did not end well, and the Berserker machines, following their directive to destroy intelligent life, turned on their makers and annihilated them.
Since then they have wandered, annihilating sentient life until now, when humanity has emerged and spread into the galaxy.These stories, published over a period of four years, form a loose narrative, in which characters from one story appear in another, sometime years later, changed by their experience.
Having said that, the stories are character driven and still work (with the possible exception of The Jester which, as I have said, is a semi-comic attempt at satire which never really achieves its objective and stylistically is at odds with the rest of the collection).
"Berserker" (1967) tells the story of humanity's war with Death Star-like automated killing machines called berserkers.
The berserkers were built to be unpredictable machines.
Formally Saberhagen has structured "Berserker" as a series of short stories exploring man's war with the berserkers from a variety of viewpoints and circumstances.
While some of the stories left me cold--a painter encounters a berserker but he is so broken already in spirit and full of self-loathing the berserker refuses to kill him, as the man himself is an advertisement for the futility of life--others are outstanding bits of space opera and hard sci-fi.
The premise behind this book was a good one: ancient spaceships guided by computers seek to end all life in the galaxy.
What characters you did meet were very one dimensional and really did not seem real at all.
Unfortunately for me, one of the best parts was right at the beginning so that made me hopeful for the whole novel.
Some of the characters were almost well written (almost but not quite).Overall, I found this novel to not be a very good read.
For those of you who still want to read this novel, I hope you find it more enjoyable that I did.
A review of the audiobookNarrated by Aaron Lustig and Henry Strozier.Duration: approximately 6.5 hoursI just stumbled upon  Berserker , not realizing that there is an entire series of these books. I'm not terribly surprised, the structure of the first book lends itself to sequel after sequel.The premise of the book is that giant intelligent killing space machines are out to destroy all of the life they discover. Why? We are never told, but we assume that they are by-products of a long-ended war
I'm not terribly surprised, the structure of the first book lends itself to sequel after sequel.The premise of the book is that giant intelligent killing space machines are out to destroy all of the life they discover.
The only reason I point this out is that I believe that the 1960s was an especially fertile time for science fiction, especially sci-fi that wanted to discuss big issues and themes.
For example, TV's "Star Trek" and "Twilight Zone" are often more than a creepy story or a space alien story - they explore deep themes, such as "What is beauty?" and "What does it mean to be human?".
Saberhagen openly explores these themes and more...Read more at: http://dwdsreviews.blogspot.com/2012/...
Crossing the span between "Hard SF" and "Space Opera", Saberhagen postulates how artificial intelligence and the human mind differs in crucial aspects.
Also, the series of stories written during the height of the Cold War points out the dangers of cavalier approaches to weapons of mass destruction, as well as being one of the first speculations around von Neumanns theories around self-replicating and self-perpetuating machinery.
Although several aspects may seem dated in light of today's technology, Saberhagens biggest strength is the exploration of the human psyche when under pressure.
Although seemingly nihilistic, the stories also warn about becoming what you fight.
I really enjoyed this read, a dark science fiction tale where machines called Berserkers are built by some unknown alien life to kill anything in its path. Saberhagen compiles this tale with different short stories about the Berserker, much like Bradbury's Martian Chronicles, and does a fantastic job delivering the reader throughout space, meeting various characters along the way, as well as other villains. Anyone who loves to read authentic science fiction stories from the long ago should grab this one up!
Gripping pulp-fiction style (short stories, eventually threaded together). I like stuff that's intricate and pulls you into a world. Escapist fantasy. This was a great read. I own this book, of course, because I intend to reread it countless times in the future. It goes on my shelf with my most prized books: Dragonlance Chronicles, Dragonlance Legends, Icewind Dale Trilogy, and the Dark Elf Trilogy.
This book has stuck with me long after the details have faded. I read this at a young age & I still think of AIs using decaying isotopes as random number generators randomly; I still think about the guy beating a Berserker by teaching a monkey-dog to beat the Turing test. It's a world that lingers. --MK
Not particularly profound or inventive, but solidly written and good fun, as is typical for Saberhagen.
Welp. I decided since this is a short story collection to go back and read the ones that I hadn't written reviews for. So: here they are. Without a Thought Clearly the beginning of the Berserker concept, and a couple of things become immediately apparent. One - the Berseker in this incarnation is used as a sort of computerized enemy, the kind of stock villain in any thought-experiment fiction that a science fiction writer might come up with to prove an interesting point. A little bit like Cold E
Ultimately, the elements at play here are intriguing, watching a man who is glorified as the savior of mankind lead an offensive against the massed Berserker fleet was GREAT to finally see - humanity being proactive, and it felt like something that came at just the right time, as 4 short stories in, you wonder if the Berserkers have any effect other than one at a time.
The final idea presented in the Berserker stories are man's weaknesses and strengths in the face of incomprehensible machine gods.
They are intelligent machines the size of a small moon, packed with enough weaponry to cauterize the surface of countless planets and destroy any defenders.
They bear the scars of countless battles, which they have always won.
They were built millennia ago by one alien empire to eradicate the other — the doomsday weapons followed their programming to the letter and eliminated both.
Humanity calls them “Berserkers.”Such is the overarching premise of the Berserker series of books, by Fred Saberhagen; the first of these, simply titled Berserker, I finished reading recently.
Saberhagen eventually either wrote or contributed to 17 books, the last appearing in 2005.
Some thoughts follow.Read the whole review.

It was ok. The writing and characterisation were fairly perfunctory, but that is nothing unusual for vintage SF. From what we saw of the Berserkers in this series of stories, they don't seem all that threatening (a Berserker fleet is soundly thrashed by an equivalently sized human fleet at one point) but there are hints that they have resources which aren't tapped anywhere in these stories. And I did like the cult that worshipped the Berserkers - I could easily see that happening in such a situation. My 15-year old self would probably have really enjoyed this.
A truly excellent and inventive collection of short stories that hints at a broader plot going on beyond it. Reminds me a bit of Cordwainer Smith, but more straightforward than Smith’s writing style. Very good.
More like 2,5
You can see Grignani's series for Penguin HERE.) It seems that no one knows who made these killing machines to begin with or for what purpose exactly, but it is surmised they were some ultimate weapon of war that became all too effective, wiping out their own creators and taking their mission beyond whatever original scope it had to encompass the whole universe.
'Sign of the Wolf' moves pleasantly into the realm of seeming science fantasy (where technology is understood as divinity and magic by primitive peoples) and the closing story 'The Face of the Deep' attempts some poetry in trying to convey an edge-of-the-galaxy scenario that bends and blends space-time itself into hard-to-describe colours and shapes.
Pretty classic science fiction. Loosely themed short stories about the origins of the berserker wars that are fun and engaging.
