https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/626339.Nausica_of_the_Valley_of_the_Wind_Vol_1
The film originated as a manga series, also by Miyazaki.
That version wasn't actually perfect, so Viz re-released it in 2004 as a seven volume series which preserved the original format of the manga (back to front, if you don't live in Japan), as well as many other aspects of the original, including the ink color (dark brown) and sound effects in Japanese.The first book introduces some of the main characters.
I highly recommend this series to anyone, whether they are fans of manga or not - if you're a fan, you need this for your collection.
This review covers the entire 7 volumes of Miyazaki's Nausicaa.Despite the silly and virtually meaningless 'description' of this book appended to the data link above, these 7 volumes are actually one of the most profound works of speculative fiction done in the 20th century.
The whole story was 13 yrs in the writing/drawing; the film adaptation of the first volume spawned Studio Ghibli and established Miyazaki as a master storyteller and the premier creative artist in Japan.
Nausicaa is speculative fiction of the highest order.
Several years back (this was maybe 2002, right before Spirited Away hit American shores) I was finally able to see Hayao Miyazaki's film Nausicaä of the Valley of Wind.
One was a masterwork, an epic adventure fraught with complex characters, intrigue, and a sense of grandeur; the other was just a movie.I'm sure that I would have loved the animated film as much as anyone else had I not read Miyazaki's collection of the story in comics form.
Granted again, I was an overly-invested simpleton at the time, a purist through-and-through, demanding that film versions of beloved stories be faithful adaptations of their source material.
Young Nausicaä is summoned to the war but decides to take a different path – one that leads her alongside the toxic forest and its insects.
The first two volumes of the manga show various scenes, perhaps in slightly different order, as seen in the movie.
When the movies final scene was shown at the end of the second volume, I was really surprised – after all, there were still five more volumes to go.
Whether movie or manga - Nausicaä is a most astonishing tale that has just completely blown me away.
I'm not sure I understood this volume entirely, but the artwork and action sequences were rather enthralling.
Count on me to purchase something for the name and then not have the rest of the series on hand when I really want to read it.
The reader's eyes want to quickly follow the action and upon being forced to slow down, the entire story may stall.
Though there are benefits to forcing a reader to slow down, I think it tends to detract from the action, by not elevating the sequence to the level I prefer.Anything else I have to say about this work is positive.
The story has incredible potential and I am excited to get my hands on the next volume.
The ohmu are one of the all-time best creations in the realm of science fiction and fantasy, and Nausicaa is one of the best protagonists.There, I said it.
If you've seen the movie, this first volume basically covers the first half of the movie. There aren't any big changes except for one--in the comic you actually get to see the words that the ohmu are saying. It basically gives the forrest a voice, which is an interesting difference. The art has a soft touch to it, which I really like, and the air combat is really dynamic.
Sometimes what may seem oblique in the movie becomes clear as the story progresses along to how Miyazaki envisioned it.
Nausicaa is miles away from other comics, the epic scale that Miyazaki worked in the manga is something that most comics creator wouldn't even dare of.
It begins as most stories do with the heroine's call to save the world, but Miyazaki is not content with just presenting the heroine's point of view.
With the more flexible version that the manga works with, we become acquainted with the varied characters that populate the world, each with their own agenda to follow.
I would give the first volume 3 stars but it is Hayao Miyazaki, so 4 stars...The main problem was the construction of texts and panels.
The next problem was too much detailed drawings for small panels.
Mostly I have seen that on small panels the images are not too detailed, so it was hard to follow what was going on.Apart from that the story and setting are interesting and despite Nausicaa being too perfect, I liked female characters.
Miyazaki-sensei's female characters are always good.
I hope I can find the next volume too, but as it is hard to read this format, I am not sure I'll read it as quickly as other manga.
I love how much more complex and involved the manga is compared to the film. I need to get myself the entire series. This is top-tier for this genre.
It is naive and almost degrading to classify this as just another "stereotyped" manga series; it's epic storyline and broad based exploration of the human condition means it shouldn't be circumscribed by such restrictive literary classifications as "1 of the best manga/graphic novels".Well, before I start raving about this series again, let me just say that this labor of love took 12 years to complete by 1 of the greatest animators of all time - Hayao Miyazaki (unfairly called "The Disney of the East" which actually doesn't do him justice) who is known more for his films.
Scifi-kerhon lukupiiri sai minut lukemaan ensimmäisen osan Hayao Miyazakin Tuulen laakson Nausicaä -mangasta, josta on tehty myös samanniminen elokuva.
Miyazakin piirrostyyli on kaunista ja muistuttaa luonnollisesti hyvin paljon Studio Ghiblin animaatioiden tyyliä.
Juonen kulkua on kuitenkin mielestäni välillä vaikea seurata, koska piirrokset ovat mustavalkoisia ja toimintakohtauksissa on vaikea erottaa, kuka tekee mitäkin.
Väitän, että epäselvyyteen vaikuttaa osaltaan myös suuri sivukoko, joka on käsittääkseni mangalle aika epätyypillinen.Tarina on kaikesta huolimatta kiinnostava ja monikerroksinen, joten aion jatkaa sarjan lukemista.
Haistan sarjassa kovaa yhteiskuntakritiikkiä, jota olisi kiva päästä pohtimaan myöhemmin, joten lupaan palata asiaan blogissani, kun olen lukenut kaikki seitsemän osaa.
Sarjakuvan kahteen ensimmäiseen osan perustuvan elokuvan katsominen alkoi myös kiinnostaa minua.
This was the first and only "graphic novel" I've ever read. I took my time reading the entire seven volume series in about three weeks time, and upon completing it I felt as if I had just returned home from a long journey. The artwork and storyline are both incredible...an epic masterpiece.
"I can hear a voice in my heart, all the time.
Go forward, it tells me.
So all I think of now is of going forward, as far as I am able."I love this girl.
An action packed epic with this gentle girl going bravely into battle.
But Nausicaä, the Chosen One as it were, is a gentle soul.
So gentle that other characters fear she might be destroyed.
Some of the action was confusing to me, I found it slightly difficult to keep track of all the names, but it's a deeply compelling bit of work.
My Nausicaä..."
“The greatness of a mind is determined by the depth of its suffering.” I've seen the anime adaptation of this series when I was young but I hardly remember anything of it and I think I was just a bit too young to understand this story, it's characters and themes.But now after being a fan of Miyazaki's work for a long time I finally reached for his beloved manga, Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind and guys, I am in love. And this just makes me wonder if I should pick up every book ending with 'o
I've seen the anime adaptation of this series when I was young but I hardly remember anything of it and I think I was just a bit too young to understand this story, it's characters and themes.But now after being a fan of Miyazaki's work for a long time I finally reached for his beloved manga, Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind and guys, I am in love.
Miyazaki's art is gorgeous and this manga is called a classic for a good reason.
Highly recommended for anyone who loves a good post-apocalyptic sci-fi/fantasy story, a gorgeous art style, and kick-ass female protagonists!
Fixed.The first time I saw the movie- years and years ago- I actually wasn't that fond of it.
It was the first anime movie (the first anime anything, come to think of it) I had ever seen, and I was a little wierded out by the giant bugs and such.After seeing a few more Miyazaki films and developing a strong and independent interest in other anime and manga, I found these graphic novels.
Not too long after that, I borrowed the movie from a friend and watched it again.
NO QUESTIONS.I'd reccomend watching the movie before reading the manga, btw.
Ooh, I love how these graphic novels flesh out the movie, which is one of my favorites. The world is even deeper and more fascinating in the comics than in the film. I'm really glad that these are fairly large-format books, though, because sometimes the artwork is crammed into such small boxes that it's a little hard to follow the action.
I'll do a full review after I've read the whole series. It is kind of hard to separate my memories of the movie from the manga, especially since they (obviously) use the same art style. I had thought that I'd read this years ago, but it doesn't match my memories at all. Maybe I'd read some kind of animanga, or maybe looked at an art book, I don't know.
I didn't know that there was a manga for Nausicaä so this was a great discovery! I can't wait to see what happens in volume 2! I really liked how the manga goes more in depth with the world building.
Although most sci-fi manga of the 80’s and before had the tendency to make all technological stuff to look like bones or insects, in this case their looks are actually excused since the world really is post-apocalyptic and people make a big part of their equipment out of bones and insect carcasses; thus for once it is excused to look as such.Facial details are generally low and thus most characters are usually set apart for their clothes.
For starters, all his works seem to mix fairy tales and gore in the same package and the end result is a story where you see cute looking characters being wounded or sliced to pieces by unworldly insectoid freaks.
Each of his works manages to balance an incredible depth while also exploring the complexities of individual characters and often the consequences of "development." Human are often creatures that are wreaking havoc with the natural world, either by polluting the natural beauty of the world, discounting the biological systems in place, devastating the world with war, or else simply negating the power of nature.
This book is just fucking gorgeous and I wanted to stop and just consume every image.Nausicaa is most certainly a story about war, but as is the case with almost every work by Hayao Miyazaki it's a story about life, biological life, and how human beings encounter the spiritual world of such life.
Miyazaki kuitenkin kirjoitti ja kuvitti mangasarjan paljon elokuvaa pidemmälle ja se on julkaistu seitsenosaisena sarjana.Sarja kertoo sodan runtelemasta maailmasta, jonka keskellä oleva myrkyllinen saastemeri, Fukai, laajenee alati ja syö alleen kaupunkeja.
Poliittiset järjestelmät eivät siis ole vakaalla pohjalla.Nausicaä on Tuulen laakson kuninkaan tytär ja ainoa perillinen.
Ensimmäisessä osassa pikkukaupunkien liittouma lähtee sohtaan ja Tuulen laaksosta mukaan osallistuu Nausicaän johtama lentohärveli.
Mutta hommat lähtevät käsistä jo ennen kuin lentueet saadaan nippuun kokoontumispaikalle.Tuulen laakson Nausicaän mustavalkoinen piirrosjälki on hämmästyttävää.
Miyazaki luo kuviin upeaa liikkeen tuntua viivagrafiikalla ja sopivilla kuvakulmilla.Ainoa miinuspuoli ensimmäisessä osassa on se, että se loppuu kuin seinään kesken kaiken.
Um bom mangá na medida do possível, eu acho? Eu amoamoamo tudo de animação do Miyazaki, mas este quadrinho é muito confuso justamente pelo apreço aos detalhes e pela megalomania que tanto amo nos filmes do estúdio Ghibli. Justamente pelos desenhos elaborados é difícil de acompanhar a história e entender o que está acontecendo, o que piora consideravelmente o ritmo de leitura e apreciação (?) da própria arte. De qualquer forma, é uma história super interessante e a protagonista é maravilhosa.
This is a pro-environment manga with a bad ass female lead so I'm here for it. I plan to continue on with the series. It's interesting that she has two strong male role models but no female role model as far as I can tell. I'm interested to find out more backstory as the series progresses.
Miyazaki is brilliant as everyone knows but it has been incredible to take in my favorite of his films in manga form. I'm amazed by the nuance that the manga allows and how very immersed I feel in Nausicaa's world. I love.
i struggle how to rate this. i didnt care for it because its outside my preferred genres but that doesnt mean it wasnt a good story
first part of the entire compendium..of course it’s great. more to come
"This really should be mentioned in the same circles as The Lord of the Rings and Game of Thrones"
Nausicaä's world is war stricken as she is forced to fight both for and against people and nature to try and ensure the survival of the Valley of the Wind.The graphic novel is beat for beat the same as the film from what I've seen in this first volume.
The film and the manga still come across as very unique because of the things that makes them different.
Logically, I believe any graphic novel from Japan should be called manga because of the cultural association, but it was still surprising to see the book in this format.
