https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1397239.Escape_on_Venus
One thing Edgar Rice Burroughs was never guilty of was a shortage of ideas. If anything he had a surplus of them. Sometimes this is a gift to a reader longing for stimulus, but at other times it's almost a tease to see so many of them scream by at break-neck speed. Imagine being raced past a buffet in a wheelchair and only getting as much as you can spoon up before the next thing comes. That's “Escape on Venus”. This is late term Burroughs, the stuff from the 40s. It's much like what “Llana of
Carson Napier relies on his raygun (or “r-ray pistol” if you like) and much is made of him having it or losing it.
I got so fed up about the heroes using the gun instead of their brains that a brief instance of improvised-weapons being used in the second segment felt like some kind of gift.
The last segment of the book introduces no less than 4 civilizations and we pass through them like a laxative.
I love Burroughs and for the most part I love this series (it's no Barsoom, nothing's as good as that), but here he's being so lazy that it's almost like reading a pastiche by Michael Moorcock.
The fourth book in the Venus series displays a certain tiredness; I began losing track of the number of city-states and tribes Carson and Duare blunder into, and as always, coincidences and million-to-one chances abound. Still, ERB's fast pace and dry humor kept me reading.
Mostly because they follow the same tired formula: Napier and Duare are captured and held by particularly dull-witted enemies, and escape is a slow, enervating process containing more talk than action.
Two of the above, the Myposians and the Brokols, actually recycle the plot point of Carson protecting the tadpoles / sprouts of the people from predatory eagles.It's only when Napier and Duare find themselves in lands where something interesting interesting is already going on that the story approaches excitement.
They return a crown prince to his land of Japal, only to find that the city is held by usurpers while also being invaded.
This one takes an acquired taste.
Very straightforward action written by an E.R.B. who seems to have had a reality check.
Obviously influenced by WWII; and for that reason this series is appealing for vastly different reasons than the good old Tarzan and John Carter of Mars tales.
Though "Escape" provides an exhausting volume of cliff hangers, I strongly encourage E.R.B. Fans to wade through each and every one in order that they acquaint themselves with a different sort of Burroughs hero.
The series is one I've had on the to-do list for decades.
Classic ERB. Plenty of adventure and crazy coincidence. Once again the story ends abruptly and is suddenly wound up in one chapter.
This fourth Venus novel is a series of vignettes in which Carson and Duare have run-ins with various strange places, creatures and cultures, getting captured and escaping, etc.
There is one interesting thing, though, that stood out quite clearly after reading the first three.I do not know if it was a result of changing social structure in America (the final book being published during WWII), Burroughs' changing mores, or something else, but the love interest, Duare, who for the first three books was often useless and screaming (as was normal for the time), here pilots aircraft and ships, fires small arms and cannons, rescues herself more than once, saves her male companions from certain death with plans of her own devising, and outwits male villains who have themselves outwitted her male companions.
We follow them from mishap to mishap as they encounter a nation of fishmen, the cult of a strange goddess, a macabre museum whose living exhibits are paralyzed then mounted, and a war between navies of huge land-bound ships on a great plain.
The story is episodic, reflecting its genesis as a quartet of pulp magazine stories, but lots of fun if you like this sort of thing.
Duare gets her own solo adventure this time around, a rare opportunity for an ERB heroine!
One of the first ERB novels I read, back in 1964.
It's #4 in the Venus series but I couldn't find the first three so I read it anyway.
I liked it at the time and read it again circa 1968, but reading it now 50+ years later, Carson comes across as something of a smartass and his observations on the various cultures they encounter are not the most charitable and unworthy of a hero.
The villains are too obvious, unrepentantly evil, and the assorted civilizations each seem like social experiments gone wrong.
The stories of Carson Napier's adventures on Earth's sister planet are essentially ERB engaging in self-parody of the superior Barsoom stories. These stories are not high art, or even good sci-fi/fantasy; but ERB's Venus stories are fairly good yarns with exotic Venusian locales, fantastic beasts, flamboyant damsels, dastardly villains, and cliff-hanging adventures in which the hero gets the girl and the bad guy meets his (or her) just deserts.[See, even I can engage in self-parody - see my John Carter story reviews.]
How to ruin what would have been a great trilogy 101Plot summary: he's caught, he's imprisoned, he escapes, he runs, he's caught, he's imprisoned, he escapes, he runs, he's caught, he's imprisoned, he escapes, he runs!!!
While I really enjoy these old planet adventure books they can be repetitive and downright tedious. I try to keep in mind, that like this book, it was not meant as a whole novel but serialized into mini-adventures in the pulps. This was not one of Burroughs best, but it was still a great adventure story. In this one you encounter fish people, plant people, amoeba people, and translucent skinned fur wearing cloud people. Oh and of course Carson and Duare are made slaves everywhere they go.
Not his best, but still an enjoyable adventure with Carson of Venus and Duare. Originally serialised as four different stories in the pulp magazine 'Fantastic Adventures' and collected in this book, therefore the plot was episodic and felt similar to 'Llana Of Gathol' from ERB's 'John Carter' Barsoom series. Worth a read if you like the old interplanetary Sci-Fi adventure stories of ERB, Leigh Brackett, Otis Adelbert Kline etc.
The Amtor (Venus)series is my second favorite series written by Edgar Rice Burroughs. I used to walk to Grand Central and gather bottles along the side of the road. I would be able to collect enough bottles and turn them in for the deposit for the next book in this (and all of his series)series of books!
The fourth and final volume of Burroughs' Venus series is essentially four novelettes, each one describing Carson Napier's capture and escape by various weird races. Among the aliens are fish-people, plant-people, and amoeba-people.
Three and half really. Probably my favorite of the Venus series.
very nice, clean American fun
Enjoyed this!
Nothing really new. Carson and his girl are taken hostage several times, usually three pages after they escaped their last prediciment.
Same old, same old, like I said it’s lucky ERB is imaginative enough to make it fun enough that you keep coming back.
read between 1970 & 1974
Venus Book 4
I read this up at grandmother's cottage in Michigan and was somewhat disappointed, not getting into Burrough's Venus books like I did with his Barsoom (Mars) and Pellucidar series.
Great finish to the Venus series, I love Burroughs style!
I love the Venus series. It's like reading a Star Wars novel but 10 times better. All of the books are quick reads and really fun. Great romance, adventures, and aliens.
Didn't like it much, the writing is full of racial and gender clichés, the story too predictable. Maybe at an younger age, or at a different time, I might have enjoyed it more.
Sluggish. Took 4ever to get thru. But wanted to read it to understand his pre Prince of Mars series writing and the pressing I have has a kick ass cover.
Enjoyable, although I prefer the Barsoom books.
