https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41831210-pestilence
Katerina's Guide to Surviving the Apocalypse(or Pestilence and All His Friends)➸ DO not, I repeat do not, let mind-blowingly beautiful covers seduce you. This is the first step towards your doom.➸ IF you were weak like me and gave in to the temptress called Cover, you must be prepared to shut your moral compass. That is necessary if you do not wish to spend your entire reading experience hearing the voices in your head screaming  error.404.this.is.not.right. ➸ ACCEPT that you WILL NOT dive into
That your eyes will feast on apocalypse smut, that the world will literally burn but the heroine will be busy gawking at the sculpted abs of the human incubator of plague and judging the people who try to kill him in order to save their families and, you know, MANKIND.➸ TRY not to cringe every time Sara calls Pestilence well, Pestilence, even in their, ehem, intimate moments.
The entire book consists of the same routine: Pestilence and Sara travel on horseback, they find some poor fellow's house to rest, and once in a while they encounter desperate people trying to stop them.
Because feminist rage.This author pulled it off for me, though, and I'm so frigging happy she did, because sometimes I just want to tune out and enjoy a love story that's dark and twisted and oh so wrong that it's right.However, I can definitely see other readers having a problem with this book and the romance that blossoms between the male and female leads.
Do you think we're all worth saving, or are you at the point where you're just like, "Fuck it, maybe we deserve the apocalypse."?
you really need to read Thalassa sensei, she's like a writing goddess.Update 7#NotMyCoverGUYS!
I laughed, I cried, I couldn't put it down!When you finished a book you loved and need an striking visual of a hot blond horseman and all you can find is this:You scream like this!Those aren't bad visual, I'm seriously thinking our world is ready for Fabio 2.0.
Guys this is a #Mustread, if you're a fan of Angelfall or you need to read a book featuring a brooding, blond hero you'll love Pestilence.♥♥♥♥____________________________________________________♥♥♥Update 4:Buddy read in progress with Rachel, Jordan, Parvati, Bilabi.
More info on safety belowJason Lewis as Pest!Thank you Laura Thalassa for writing this beautiful enemies to lovers book.
The hero, Pestilence, is very stubborn about (view spoiler)[his mission of wiping out the human race, and he won't change his mind until almost the very end of the book, so a huge amount of human lives will be lost.
“Because naming things humanizes them. And once you humanize something, you are essentially recognizing it’s existence.”  Story ⭐⭐⭐⭐Four years ago four horseman landed on earth. With their arrival humans thought the end of the world was there. But they were so wrong. The horseman disappeared as fast as they appeared on earth. Only four years later one of them appears again - Pestilence the conqueror of the world. Spreading a plague through the world he’s destroying Pestilence is attacked by Sar
Spreading a plague through the world he’s destroying Pestilence is attacked by Sara who sacrifices herself to kill the horseman and safe humanity.
There’s suffering and there is pain painted with thick hate, but the line between love and hate is small and soon Sara isn’t so sure about her thoughts and her feelings for the horseman anymore.
If you ask me, that’s probably the perfect man for me 😉Also, how adorable was the fact that he had no clue what humans ate and so he mixed the weirdest things together for Sara to eat.
But, as time goes on, these two crazy kids, who each tortured the other, fall in love - Stockholm Syndrome style.
It's a refreshing change to have a guy who ISN'T a walking ad for STDs. Of course, since he's Pestilence, he might still dish them out, but at least he doesn't have them himself.Why do we even have that font?This book does have a paranormal romance going on, but it also has a lot of darkness, depth, and meaning in it.
Also, (view spoiler)[ I kind of wished that he would have stayed Pestilence and they would have rode around killing humanity.
Holy shit!Review to come later!
"Then I saw when the Lamb broke one of the seven seals, and I heard one of the four living creatures saying as with a voice of thunder, “Come.” I looked, and behold, a white horse, and he who sat on it had a bow; and a crown was given to him, and he went out conquering and to conquer". IM SO HAPPY I FOUND OUT ABOUT THIS BOOK!This is the first book that I have read about the Four Horsemen. And damn if it wasn't good.This book is a great combination of a very realistic and sarcastic female charac
And damn if it wasn't good.This book is a great combination of a very realistic and sarcastic female character and a very well writing anti-hero.It was filled with hate, love, loss, pain, suffering, devastation, violence, torture, forgiveness and sarcastic/funny moments.
What else do you need to be honest?Sara is just great, and she and I have 2 things in common, I'm tedious as well and I too have a soft spot for Pestilence.I absolutely adore it when she had her philosophical moments and her love for poetry and English literature.
How can this book end like that?
That humour helped us to get through them too.As for Pestilence (who came to be affectionately known around BR parts as Pest)?Well, you've got to read the book to understand just how much of a feat this author pulled off in making one of the freakin' four horseman of the apocalypse,"the literal embodiment of plague", a sympathetic romantic figure, especially when you consider that his sole purpose was to wipe out humankind and he was doing such a damn fine job of it...(view spoiler)[Which is why when they first 'meet', Sara shoots him off his horse and then sets him on fire.Of course.(How exactly do you answer that one when the kids ask, someday, how you both met?!)  (hide spoiler)]But trust me, when all is said and done?This is a story about love, forgiveness, understanding, compassion and hope, and the ways in which all those things (but especially love) have the potential to save the world...Such a fascinating ride.And now I'm definitely looking forward to Death.One of the upcoming books in this series, peeps, and not the real deal.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestWriting this review makes me sad because I really wanted to love this book for several reasons. One, because I'm friends with the author on Goodreads, have chatted with her, and really like her as a person; she seems really kind, laid-back, and funny. Two, because I am in love with that cover. It seems to be paying homage to the bodice-rippers of the 1980s and 90s, which I am all for, as you probably know, being the self-professed Bodice Ri
Lee Smith's Last Hour of Gann.Instead I got, TWILIGHT meets the apocalypse.The beginning and ending are unarguably the best parts of this book.
It's creepy AF.The problem occurs with what I think of as insta-love, even though it doesn't happen instantly - Sara's attraction to Pestilence happens much too fast.
I kept thinking how much better this story might have played out in the hands of an author like that.I did like how the apocalyptic setting brought out the worst in people, although there were several scenes that were almost identical in how they played out.
That cover!EDIT 09/14/18I hate the new cover. I had already paid for the paperback and now the new covers won't match. This is the last time I buy a print book of an incomplete series.
In a totally random and weird review, I will be using gifs from the movie Elf to express ALL THE FEELINGS!So me about Laura Thalassa all the time:Which will probably lead to this:Anyways...
from the moment I saw the cover reveal for Pestilence, I was DYING (get it?) to get my grubby hands on a copy of this book.
Here's what I was like reading the book:And I loved it so much!
My first 5 star book in over a month!This is about Sara, a young firefighter who attempts to kill Pestilence when he comes to her town.
4.5 starsReview sort of posted 23/6/18I was planning to write a review for this but my body has let me down.
Apparently when I get sick I have to do it to extremes.
I loved the concept and the writing was exceptional.
Pro-tip, don't read this while you're sick.
I will try to re-write this review at a later time because this rambling doesn't even make sense in my brain, right now or give justice to this lovely book.
I will also try to catch up with all your reviews,updates and news probably next week as writing this has exhausted me.
😱😱😱😍😍😍Who wouldn't want to read a book with a cover like that?!
Right?!Update:The book is just as good as the cover!I couldn't put it down..from the moment I finished reading the first chapter...I was hooked!
My brain can't comprehend the torrent of emotions I'm feeling for this book...
From the ever present feeling of confusion, this book was insane!
I didn't know whether to hate the male protagonist because of his cruelty or love him.
I hated Pestilence but I loved him.
I hated his cruelty but I loved him for his moments of kindness towards sara.
“Good,” he responds, “then I expect you to use the one beneath your skull.”Okay, before I dive into all the many reasons why I absolutely loved this book to the moon and back, I just want to say: This cover is stunning and perfect, beautiful just like this story.
because this story and the two MCs really reminded me of Feyre and Rhysand, and a bit of the ACOTAR plot, which made me irreversibly fall in love with this book.
Even though I rarely like insta-love stories, I wouldn’t have minded it if it was because Sara and Pestilence just..
Although the internal/character conflict was beautifully tied up, the external conflict wasn't resolved *at all.* It was like, he decided to stop, so he did, the end :-\ No repercussions, no loss of power, no people with pitchforks pounding down their door, no leaving her family behind to go into hiding, no nothing.
(hide spoiler)]That said, I'm still giving this 4 stars because of its unusual/unique premise, the humor, the engaging style / high quality writing, and because I want to.I also plan to pick up the next book in the series, hoping that the author (view spoiler)[ resolves the conflict in a more concrete/believable way.
Worldbuilding - 2 STARSPestilence is a romance set in dystopian world but in its core this is not a dystopian novel.
This should serve as a warning for all of you hardcore dystopian/fantasy/paranormal lovers who (like me) expect actual worldbuilding when presented with new world/creatures - there is almost none worldbuilding in this book.Plot line - 1 STARWorldbuilding aside, this novel also lacks plot.
If you want truly good and believable romance with somehow evil but complex hero, go for Extinguish by J.M. Darhower and avoid this book.If above mentioned factors don't deter you from enjoying a novel, then pick this book up.
YES, YES, YEESSSSS!!!If paranormal romance was more like Pestilence, I would actually give them a chance.This exceeded expectations.
I mean, all I expected was some strong alpha douchebag to conquer some supposedly "strong and ballsy" female and then make her succumb to his whims in the name of lurve.
I don't know, you'll have to read and find out.But seriously, everything that I abhor in paranormal romance was nowhere to be found here.
The same female character that was present in the beginning is the same one we find through the whole story.
The story was interesting, the plot manianed a decent pace,the gore was perfection, and the romance tooks its time.
This is my first book by this author, and I was quite pleased by how  great this was.  I don't usually like dark romances, but the author totally made this work. It's an apocalyptic/dystopian story about the Four Horsemen arriving on Earth to bring about the end of days. Pestilence is first. All he has to do is ride through a city and everyone succumbs to plague within 3-4 days. One hundred percent kill rate.Until Sara. She is a fire fighter and draws the short straw to stay behind and try to ki
I don't usually like dark romances, but the author totally made this work.
She is a fire fighter and draws the short straw to stay behind and try to kill Pestilence.
He leaves her alive after her failed murder attempt to make her suffer, and the two begin a hate-to-love romance.The author did a great job building the love between the two characters.
Made me cry.For maybe half the book, I was thinking I really liked it, but I could never ship Pestilence and Sara or think he was book boyfriend material.
4.5 -omg Jewelsy actually loved this and is baffled by that, so is actually taking the time to write a longer review than normal- StarsDisclaimer: most people know that paranormal or fantasy or dystopian stories don’t really pump my nads at all.
For a pnr/dystopian book, a slow dummy like me was actually able to stay awake and read this gem in one sitting!
And to top it all off, it was a slow burn/ enemies to lovers book...
AND I STILL LOVED IT (cos Jewelsy is also super impatient bout the slow burns and E2L tropes draw a fine line on being too mean at times).
⭐4 stars⭐  Caught him in a good mood, I did.Not."So... I haven't gotten sick.""Astute observation, mortal.""Is that just luck, or do you control who gets the plague?" I ask."Were you born with all your organs intact?" he responds."Yes..." I say cautiously. "Good," he responds, "then I expect you to use the one beneath your skull."  Pestilence is such a sweetheart I swear! A mass murdering sweetheart but sweetheart anyway.Whoever disagrees can come fight me.I had some issues with our heroine at t
Caught him in a good mood, I did.Not."So...
"Good," he responds, "then I expect you to use the one beneath your skull."
A mass murdering sweetheart but sweetheart anyway.Whoever disagrees can come fight me.I had some issues with our heroine at times and I think I wanted something different when it came to the ending (view spoiler)[ I didn't want my murdering baby to give up being Pestilence, at least not like that.
(hide spoiler)] but I really enjoyed it and now I want War!
take me away, plague daddythis surprised me!
essentially, pestilence comes to town and our dear friend sara tries to murder him and burn him alive.
he’s not real happy about being made into human bbq so after his immortal ass recovers he takes sara prisoner and true love ensues.
duh.I was definitely surprised at the discussion of immortality and morality in this.
plague daddy was really endearing after the whole rah rah pustule nonsense & sara was compassionate and a badass the whole time.also the sex wasn’t that descriptive but it was cute.
definitely interested to read the next book.
Which while dark is also filled with hope as Sara gets to know the newly minted Physical embodiment of Pestilence.I was actually a little surprised by how much I liked the romance aspect of this book.
Friend: I really want to read a story about a hot guy, but not just any hot guy you know?Me: Well, I’m really loving the broken tortured thing right now.Friend: Oh, yeah I get that.
The only undying horse I know of is the one the headless horseman rides and I’m pretty sure kissing is going to be a problem if that is the main character.
And the pre-order link is up! <3Amazon US: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B07B6BRTJP
The book opens with the heroine trying to kill Pestilence to stop him from further spreading the disease.
However, when OTHER people try to kill Pestilence - you know, TO STOP HIM FROM INTENTIONALLY SPREADING A HORRIBLE AND FATAL DISEASE - they are portrayed as cruel and venal killers.
They're also not nice to the heroine - you know, the woman they see helping the guy who is INTENTIONALLY SPREADING A HORRIBLE AND FATAL DISEASE - and so we're supposed to think they're bad for that reason too.
At the end of this book, Pestilence finally abandons plague-bringing because our heroine's magic vajajay has caused him to understand love and mercy.
4.5 StarsThis story offers a very unlikely couple to fall in love but the author nails it nonetheless.
It is very well paced and engaging.
However it is not so much a fantasy but more like a post-apocalyptic book.
Our heroine, Sara is a fire fighter who takes a stand and sets out to stop Pestilence from spreading death to mankind.
Pestilence is not from earth and has only one mission so when Sara's attempt to kill him backfires she is taken as his prisoner.
Sara is so torn between her feelings for Pestilence and his plague spreading mission.
A very well done story which I recommend!
Actual Rating: 4.5 stars.Wow.I loved this book.Such a slow build up. Very slow pace. Very quiet story. Yet, truly BEAUTIFUL. So great. No blacks and whites, all grey.The development of the characters, their relationship, their falling in love . It was so well crafted, that even though it all happened in a fantasy world, it felt real, perfectly believable. Just beautiful. Hands up to the writer. Well done.Wow.P.S: There is no doubt in my mind I’ll keep reading this series and this author.
And this is why I'm behind with all my challenges - I reread stuff instead of reading all the unread books sitting on my shelf.
While I enjoyed this book even more this time I also noticed some things that flew over my mind in my first read.
Instead I ended up crying my eyes out, screaming at Pestilence (sometimes out loud which led to many strange looks from those unfortunate enough to be around me at the time) and raging against an impotent god who decided he doesn't like his creations after abandoning them for millennia.
5 INFERNAL STARS! (This is out in the world now! Go read it!)Hello. Let me introduce you to my newest OTP. "And so it was, and so it shall be, for the Age of Man is over, and the Age of the Horseman has begun. They came to earth, and they came to end us all." Sweet baby Jesus this was everything I needed, hoped it would be and more. Laura Thalassa sprung this one on us last minute and she has done it again. Nobody quite does enemies-to-lovers stories (best trope ever) quite the way Laura does an
Nobody quite does enemies-to-lovers stories (best trope ever) quite the way Laura does and boy did she hit the mark this time.
However, there is so much more to this story than the romantic aspect of it.It's rare for me to feel such a range of emotions for a character like I did for Pestilence.
There were times I was right there with Sara and wanted that "infernal fucker" to burn for everything he had done.
And I loved that about her.This book has few secondary characters, with the story focusing primarily on Sara and Pestilence's travels together.
Por algo se dice que en gustos se rompen géneros TO EACH THEIR OWN, Different strokes for different strokes, como quiera que lo llames pero la verdad leí unas criticas que sentía que en vez de insultar al libro me insultaban a mi porque a mi si me gustó.
En la vida real yo no me enamoraría de una criatura que viene a matarnos a todos, pero esto es un libro.Yo recomiendo que lo leas con mente abierta y si no te gusta pues lo abandonas y ya.ENGLISH TRANSLATIONOKAY HERE I COME I have a lot to say about this book because I am convinced that this book is NOT BEING REVIEWED FAIRLY in this realm of different opinions that is goodreads.
