https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8682.Jitterbug_Perfume
And here’s the kind of prose you can look forward to:The sky, layered with thin altostratus clouds and smog, appeared to reflect human suffering and failed to awaken in Claude visions of paradise.
(Page 36)With the absence of the cloud cover that normally caused the sky over Seattle to resemble cottage cheese that had been dragged nine miles behind a cement truck, the city, for the first time in memory, would have an unobstructed view of one of nature’s most mystical spectacles.
(Page 81)A few flat clouds folded themselves like crepes over fillings of apricot sky.
Before I had developed a literary taste that I can be proud of, there was the beacon of hope for me that is Tom Robbins.There aren’t many things I loved in high school that I still love now: Listening to the same Dashboard Confessional CD on infinite repeat, running to Livejournal to unselfconsciously document every oh-so-significant spike in my emotional temperature and wearing brightly colored tights under fishnet stockings are all things I’ve let slip into the past but Robbins has seen me through all the milestones and minutia of my teenage and twentysomething years.Jitterbug Perfume was not my first foray into the weirdly wonderful and wonderfully weird worlds that Robbins builds from the gossamer threads of imagination unbound (I'm actually not sure which one popped my Robbins cherry but I do know I first read this one during my last summer of college when I was a live-in nanny -- which was a surprisingly good summer for bibliomania, actually).
Κι όταν πια μας έχουν μηρυκάσει και χωνέψει αυτά τα έξι στομάχια, βγαίνουμε από μέσα τους σαν μια ενιαία και αηδιαστική καφετιά μάζα.Το δίδαγμα, λοιπόν, του παντζαριού είναι το εξής: Διατηρήστε τη θεϊκή κοκκινίλα σας, την έμφυτη ροζ μαγείας σας, ειδάλλως θα καταλήξετε καφέ.
Όπου υπάρχουν ζωντανοί και νεκροί οργανισμοί κάθε εξελικτικής μορφής, ερωτισμός, εκκεντρικότητα, μαγεία, δύναμη, ατελείωτη αιώνια αγάπη, σαπίλα, κατεστημένο, ομορφιά, αγνότητα, χιλιάδες σημασίες...Κλείνουμε με φελό το γυάλινο μπουκάλι μας, αφήνουμε το μείγμα να αφομοιωθεί απο τον εαυτό του και χύνουμε το υγρό πάνω σε λευκές σελίδες βιβλίου.
More because I'd forgotten just what a superb stylist Robbins is (see mid-read comments).
("Alma hiccupped the mushroom scent of his spurt," ex, not to mention lots of glistening, semen-encrusted thighs, and that sort of thing.) The other thing, which isn't really bad or good, exactly, is that I think Tom Robbins is kind of a victim of himself.
mid-read: It's not that I'd forgotten, exactly, but no one does metaphors like Tom Robbins.
, but I thought I'd maybe check out this one, which I haven't read in like a decade.
And oh my god, how have I not read Tom Robbins in so long??
Ξυπνάς ένα κρύο χειμωνιάτικο πρωί, έχοντας δει ένα πολύ καλό όνειρο και μένεις τυλιγμένος στη ζεστασιά και τη θαλπωρή του παπλώματος ή της κουβέρτας, χωρίς να θέλεις να σηκωθείς από το κρεβάτι και χουζουρεύεις για όσο περισσότερο χρόνο γίνεται, εισπνέοντας παράλληλα μυρωδιές από ένα πλουσιοπάροχο πρωινό που ετοιμάζεται στην κουζίνα. Ε λοιπόν, κάπως έτσι θα περιέγραφα την εμπειρία της ανάγνωσης αυτού του βιβλίου. Θεσπέσιο.
I don't mind reading about sex, in fact I rather enjoy it if done tastefully, but I feel that the overwhelming sexual descriptions took away from the substance of Robbins' ideas.
I found myself rolling my eyes throughout most of it and was even embarassed when a man in a plane commented on my book choice, noting that another author he reads is "like Tom Robbins if he had a heart." I give it two stars because Robbins is clever (maybe too clever) and funny and I feel that the ending made up for what was lacking earlier in the book.
I'm going to add many quotes from this book and not indulge too much in the plot.Like Gabriel García Márquez's One Hundred Years of Solitude, and my more recent read of Jonathan Carroll's The Land Of Laughs, this book took me into a maze of philosophies and literary genres, which one of the characters in the book, Dr. Wigs Dannyboy, so eloquently described: "As fortunate as I am to be born an Irishman and thus possess a license to broadcast this brand o' pseudolyrical bullshit, that's how fortunate I am...” The striking beginning of the tale of Alobar, loosely --very loosely-- based on the multiple adventures of Homer's Ulyseus, had me sitting straight up, pen in hand, notebook wide open, heart beating, breath shortening.
If you think this was easy to follow, add an Argentinian accordionist, a secret Tibetan sect named the Bandaloop, a Saxon King named Alobar and an Indian low-caste woman named Kudra, mix in Albert Einstein and a scene borrowed from Dante’s Inferno, extend the plot to cover several centuries, include an impromptu history of perfume from the ancient to the modern times and put the cherry on the cake with the foul-smelling god of anarchy, drunkenness and promiscuity – PAN.
Tom Robbins is, to me, like the band Rush (I know this seems like I'm trying too hard, but honestly, this is the best analogy I can come up with & this is legitmately the first thing that came to mind): You like them ok, and even get a bit excited when they come up on the radio, but when you're grabbing CDs for your car, your copy of "Moving Pictures" somehow never quite makes the cut.
If you want something a bit unique & haven't read his stuff yet, give this a try.
Zira uygalık tarihi, mitoloji, dinler, kültürler, gelenekler, modernizm, kapitalizm ve daha başka bir sürü süreç eserdeki öyküye o kadar güzel yerleştirilmiş ki sadece ana öyküyü aktarmak, eseri birkaç kalibre düşürmek olur.
Optimist yaklaşımı, insanın beynini kanatmayan popüler kültür güzellemeleri/taşlamaları, Murakami'yi etkileyen(!) garip roman isimleri, masalsı alanları, zeki nükteleri, laf sokmaları, tarihi yeniden yazmaları, okuyucusuyla oyun oynaması gibi beni aktifleştiren, okurken daha çok zevk almamı sağlayan özellikleri var.
Bir kere edepsiz bir yazar Robbins, en sevdiğim.
Robbins'in üslubu ve çevirmenin hakimiyeti hakkında söylenebilecek olumsuz bir şey olduğunu düşünmüyorum.
This is my first Robbins so I don't know what his other novels are like, but we're talking about an exceptionally charismatic writer here.
Robbins takes a bunch of ingredients totally unrelated to one another and makes a story that's as unique as it is brilliant.
Beets, horny gods, perfumes, ancient and modern history, eternal life, philosophy and sex.
These are the basic ingredients that he uses to make a story both unforgettable and dreamy.
History-wise, Robbins has certainly done his homework.
It seems like he knows what he talks about when it comes to ancient and medieval times.
For the last few weeks, I’ve been eating it like it’s the only vegetable on the menu.
Book had it all, and then he/Robbins started talking.
And it wasn’t the sex part, nymphs coming all over the grass, sperm all over everybody, lesbians gnawing in the toilet, Rabbit nose, and now I am here, now I am not, bees as an accessorize and religious history.My thoughts were, aha, ok, yes, ok.
I’m mocking this book too much now, but what I want to say.
but all together, this book was like warm milk.
And while there's certainly an intelligent, probing mind behind this sexual-philosophical hodgepodge of a book, the sum of the parts of my first foray into Robbins' world was not much fun to read.I recently read an interview with Tom Robbins in which the author admits to being able to write about two pages a day.
Also, Robbins kept us hooked (initially) with the tale of yet another set of characters, Alobar and Kudra, a couple who meets something like 900 years ago, then proceeds to learn ancient eastern self-preservation techniques and live healthily and happily until the present day.
i've found that with tom robbins' novels, you either love it or hate it.
for the record, i liked 'still life with woodpecker' and 'skinny legs and all.' i didn't care for 'even cowgirls get the blues' and thought this one was so full of shit that the topic of perfume was so sorely needed to cover the overwhelming stench.
maybe i just wasn't in the right mindset.
maybe i just don't like old white guys writing southern black women in phonetics.
oooh-ee, massa, tom robbins ain't no race-iss.
tom robbins an ar-teest, mm-hmm.
i'm just one dumb woman, right?)
4.yıldızı Pınar'dan korktuğumdan verdim. Asli yorumu editle girerken anlatırım derdimi.
“Bireyselliğimiz bizim tek varlığımızdır. Onu güvenlik uğruna ya da tüm toplumun çıkarları uğruna değiş tokuş etmeye, elden çıkarmaya razı olanlar bulunabilir. Ama onu koruyan, hayatın buruk yollarında onu hep yanında taşıyan, sevgide, düşüncede ona sadık kalan, sabah yıldızınca kutsanır.”“İnsan sonsuzluğa kadar yaşayacaksa, kalbiyle yaşamalı”"İnsan, yanağındaki ilahi renge, içindeki doğal pembeliğe sarılmalı; yoksa kahverengiye dönüşür."Keşke hiç bitmeseydi.
I'm gonna eavesdrop.However, the horny goats were less experimental than a charm Aberforth Dumbledore would've performed one of his goats (too bad there probably aren't Harry Potter nerds reading this who fixated on that hardly mentioned weirdo side character as I did...).The single most evocative visual and audio aid I could think of for this review.However some stuff worked (the beets)...
I love it about history that food recipes makes me think about people long gone more than anything else.
A stream of pointless sex scenes about Pan and sirens and whatever aren't gonna say any of that like food can.
I have vacillated between a four and five star rating on this.
I LOVE the words.
I fell in LOVE with the language.
I know it sounds weird, but the way he wrote about the beet and all vegetables on the very first page sold me.
Four stars from me is a GOOD, GOOD thing!You'll never look at a beet the same way again!HERE ARE SOME OF THE QUOTES I LIKED:The Middle Ages hangs over history's belt like a beer belly.
Sometimes it even sounded like heavy breathing.To achieve the impossible, it is precisely the unthinkable that must be thought.
Nihayet okuduğum kitap aslında ilgi çekici ve yüksek bir hızla başlamıştı.
Ya başı daha iyidir ya da sonu.
Bu kitabın da sonu başı kadar iyi gitmedi.
Bir de Robbins'in kurgusu anlattığı şey benim hoşuma gitmeyince pek keyif alamadım.
Kitap ölüm- ölümsüzlük meselesini ele alırken mitolojiden, bilimden ve daha birsürü başka kaynaktan yararlanıyor.
Aslında kitap sanırım bana pek uygun değildi.
Hele Pan'ı koyduğu yer de hoşuma gitmeyince sanırım pek keyif alamadım.
Belki ben ıskaladım ama biraz da zevk ve beğeni meselesi olarak bakarsak; bana çok hitap etmedi diyelim.Yazarın kendine has bir dili, değişik tasvirleri ve tempolu bir anlatımı olduğunu söyleyip hakkını teslim etmeli.Herkese iyi okumalar.
32 ay sonra tekrar okumak nasip oldu. Meğer satır aralarında ne çok kara mizah kaçırmışım. Tom Robins' kelimelerle zihninizi adeta lunapark'a çeviriyor. Bahsedecek o kadar çok şey var ama bir o kadar da okuyan arkadaşım olduğu için belki sonra yorumumu güncelleyip içerik hakkında derinlemesine bilgi paylaşımında bulunabilirim..
Genel olarak benim tarzım olmadığı için çok beğenmedim.Ama "pancar" kelimesini her duyduğumda aklıma bu kitabın geleceği kesin.."...Burada öğrettiklerine göre varoluşun çoğu ıstırap çekmek.
Dünyada çok ıstıtap, çok sefalet var, tamam, ama bir yığın da zevk var.
Eğer bir insan ıstıraptan kurtulmak uğruna tüm zevkleri de en baştan reddediyorsa ne kazanır?
İçinde ne ıstırap ne de zevk olmayan bir hayat boş bir hayattır.
Bu teslim olmak demek.
Bu tür bir zayıflığa insan nasıl saygı duyar?
Bilerek yavanı, sıradanı, güvenliyi kucaklayan, bunu sırf hayal kırıklığının getireceği acıdan kurtulmak için yapan bir insanı nasıl bağrına basabilirsin?...
Following the resounding success of my Locus Quest, I faced a dilemma: which reading list to follow it up with? Variety is the spice of life, so I’ve decided to diversify and pursue six different lists simultaneously. This book falls into my GIFTS AND GUILTY list.Regardless of how many books are already queued patiently on my reading list, unexpected gifts and guilt-trips will always see unplanned additions muscling their way in at the front.Let's jump straight in with a quote from somebody els
Ditto, Gertie, ditto!A couple of years back I decided to get all of my immediate family the same present (same-same, but different) - as many second hand books as I could get for £20.
My Step-Dad got a selection of humorous fantasy works: this being one of them.He likes authors like Tom Holt, Robert Rankin and Chris Moore.
. Having read one Moore beforehand, I knew what to expect from 
We enjoyed our time together, but like a blind-date set-up that seems good in theory, it's clear the chemistry isn't right for a long term relationship.After this I read: Greywalker["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
In many ways, this novel is like a macho version of a Jackie Collins' novel where the plot gets in the way of all the more important sex scenes and blowjobs.
Don't get me wrong, I like sex scenes and Jackie Collins.
And that's what turns out to be the main joke of the novel: that women have professional ambition at all.The "lesbian" character never gets the girl she's lusted after but settles instead for becoming her best pal.
They are real groaners like "a populace that was puting Descartes before des horse."Reading this novel made me so glad I left that Robbins'-lovin dude and his horny toilet philosophizing crew behind.
The social commentary is often straight from the flower power perspective, but he’s more insightful than most when it comes to articulating a view.
The less structured thinking in a book like Jitterbug Perfume is a good antidote to econometric analysis texts.It was a long time ago that I read my favorite Robbins books, but I think I’d still appreciate the humor, the artistry, and the full twisting verbal layouts in the pike position.
However, if any of you non-initiates are open to some unusual herbal offerings, like Passion Fruit Zinger possibly, I’d encourage you to give him a try.
...insanları sınırlayan tanrılar değildir. İnsanları sınırlayan, insanlardır.
I can therefore conclude that Tom Robins is simply writing who he is, and that's pretty much all one can ask of any author .
How can I compare someone like Tom Robins to Ayn Rand?
And though Tom Robins has quite the opposite message, his characters are still subservient to his ideas, and I tend to think that characters need a little more elbow room than that.
I've never read a book like this before and it definitely got me to thinking.
The perils of reading books that have some similarities too close together. (Or, at least partly, at the same time.) One of them suffers by comparison. So while Ghostwritten was a strong 4, almost 5 stars, Jitterbug Perfume squeaks into a 4, just barely. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Erleichda!
Seneler, seneler önce okuyup aşık olduğum ve hala ne zaman bir "pancar" görsem aklıma gelen kitap. Yeniden okumalı.
Ya ama Allah kahretsin ya!
O kadar güzel bitip neden bir Kudra - Alobar karşılaşması yok bu kitapta!
Neden son bölümde sayfalarca Priscilla gereksizini okurken benim ikilim yok, AMA BÜTÜN KİTABI BU İKİLİ GÖTÜRMÜŞKEN NEDEN ONLARA AİT Bİ SON YOK!!!
HATTA BÜTÜN KİTABI ALOBAR YÜRÜTMÜŞKEN ASLINDA NEDEN SON SÖZÜ ALOBAR SÖYLEMEDİ AQ!!!
Allah kahretsin epilog istiyorum!
Muhtemelen hayatımın en anlamsız yorumu oldu ama buraya çok güzel alıntılarla dolu yorum bırakmayı düşünüyorum.
Şimdilik benim isteğim türde (Kudra & Alobar'ın) sonu, ileri giderek epilog eksikliği içinde, Alobar'ın son sözü yokluğunda kıvranacağım izninizle.Ayrıca bu kitabı öneren İlkim'e sonsuz teşekkürler.
