https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/386270.Selected_Poems
“I made this, I have forgottenAnd remember.The rigging weak and the canvas rottenBetween one June and another September.Made this unknowing, half conscious, unknown, my own.” Included in this selection:•	Prufrock and other observations•	Poems 1920, a selection.•	The Waste Land•	The Hollow Men•	Ash-Wednesday•	Choruses from “The Rock”
I first read Eliot in college for a survey class appropriately titled The Modern Wasteland.
We must have also read “Ash-Wednesday,” because some of its lines were familiar to me (“Teach us to care and not to care / Teach us to sit still”).
On this reading it was that and “Choruses from ‘The Rock’” that had the strongest impact.
Most of the poems from the 1917, 1920 and 1925 collections just washed over me, but there are some lines from “Ash-Wednesday” and “Choruses from ‘The Rock’” that I’ve marked out to read again (and again and again).
Virdžinija Vulf u stihu – na to me podseća Eliot. Stilski savršen, snažan, ponekad malo isuviše zahtevan; po mom mišljenju ostaje najpotpuniji ako se osoba mane tumačenja, već prepusti toku misli i slikama u prolazu. Nekim zbirkama sam se malo više bavio (The Wasteland, Prufrock and Other Observations čija je naslovna definitivno jedna od boljih), nekima malo manje, ali više mi je ostao osećaj nego neki poseban citat: mračne ulice pune dima i slabih, zagasitih svetiljki i ljudi poput njih, lepi ljudi, lepe ulice, putevi, čak i u svojoj ružnoći.5
Ако значението на една творба винаги е свързано с възприемателя (по Ричардс), то в субективното пространство на моето читателско битие Елиът е един от поетите, които са оказали най-голямо влияние в развитието на литературния ми вкус през годините. Безкрайната тъга в поезията му, съчетана с безмилостния реализъм на внушението, превърта светове и хвърля читателя към едно безкрайно чезнене. А чезненето е най-мощното оръжие срещу злото там, където тишината лекува.http://knijno.blogspot.bg/2016/02/t.html﻿
"Between the ideaAnd the realityBetween the motionAnd the actFalls the ShadowFor Thine is the KingdomBetween the conceptionAnd the creationBetween the emotionAnd the responseFalls the ShadowLife is very long""Because I do not hope to turn againLet these words answerFor what is done, not to be done againMay the judgement not be too heavy upon usBecause these wings are no longer wings to flyBut merely vans to beat the airThe air which is now thoroughly small and drySmaller and dryer than the willTeach us to care and not to careTeach us to sit still""And indee there will be timeFor the yellow smoke that slides along the streetRubbing its back upon the window-panes;There will be time, there will be timeTo prepare a face to meet the faces that you meet;There will be time to murder and create,And time for all the works and days of handsThat lift and drop a question on your plate;Time for you and time for me,And time yet for a hundred indecisions,And for a hundred visions and revisions,Before the taking of toast and tea."I'll be honest: I understand about 5% of everything Eliot writes.
Best read out-loud for yourself, and remember misogyny and antisemitism does not mean poetry void of beauty and truth.
The grimy beauty of Eliot's masterful versification compresses and plants dense metaphysical ideas next to one another which find their expression in a pure and controlled diction.
I'm afraid I was often left writhing in some kind of paroxysm of pleasure.
This is difficult poetry with an encyclopedic sprawl of references but very rewarding if you're invested.
My favourites comprise the first half of this particular collection.
"I am moved by fancies that are curledAround these images, and cling;The notion of some infinitely gentleInfinitely suffering thing."
"Do I dareDisturb the universe?"Reading his poetry is such a unique experiance, it is like I know what the next line is going to be before reading it. The ideas and images follow one another so effortlessly, it is so immensely captivating, touching and inspiring.I had a small piece of paper next to me while reading it, which is now covered in quotes.
T. S. Eliot's poetry might just be what made me fall in love with poetry in the first place. It is out of this world, and I might write a review of this book one of these days.
I have came across T.S Eliot's work before, in the format of the poem "The Wasteland" I rather enjoyed this, and I have always been eager ever since to read more of his works.
I love the sheer complexity of Eliot's poetry, and the level of thought and construction that has gone into the writing, is simply amazing.
I liked this collection, but I didn't love it.
There were a few poems that particularly stood out for me, and there were some I didn't care for in the least.
Overall, it is worth the time to read, even if it's a book just to dip into every now and again.
При Елиът всичко е едно безкрайно преплитане на живот, мисли, минало, настояще, пътуване и бъдене, и тук, и там.
За да постигнеш дотам,дотам, където си, за да се махнеш оттам, където не си, трябва да изминеш път, по който няма екстаз.
За да стигнеш дотам, където не знаеш къде, трябва да изминеш път, който е пътят на невежеството.
За да притежават това, което не притежаваш,трябва да минеш по пътя на лишението.
За да достигнеш това, което не си, трябва да минеш по пътя, на който не си.
" "Любовта е най-близо до себе си,когато Тук и Сега предстанат да имат значение."
Dear T.
S. Eliot,I had never read your poetry before.
But from the first stanza of "The Love Song of J.
Alfred Prufrock" you captivated me and I was spellbound by your words.I find now you hold a place in my heart as one of my favourite poets.I only regret that this selection of your poems is so short, being less than 100 pages.
Also, I did not understand the poems in French very well.
(Though my attempts did make me laugh.)Other than that, I have no complaints.Much love from your newest admirer,Me
I haven't read poetry in a long time, and I'm happy I started my journey through it again with T.
S. Eliot.
One of my favourite lines of my life is from one of his poems: "I will show you fear in a handful of dust".
"Portrait of a Lady" has been very close to my heart for some years now.
I enjoy his writings a lot because I can always sense loss and doom on the other side of their meaning, just as well as I can see some rays of hope.
He is not one of the greats for nothing...
Understanding can come with growth and/or maturity, but how do we know when our dislike of something comes from lack of understanding rather than a simple matter of taste? Eliot lays himself bare, his insecurities and lowest parts offered. He is his audience, he is his reader--the root of the truth in his words. Genius and honesty combined is daunting, but there is beauty to carry you through.
(...)И ще си струва ли накрая,и ще си струва ли наистина,след залезите, дворовете и уличната влага,след романите и чайовете, и шумящите полии колко още?… И дали?…Не, невъзможно е да се изкаже това, което има да се каже!Но някакъв магически фенер върху екрана ще покажесхемите на моите нерви;дали, дали накрая ще си струваа ако тя, облегнала назад главаили отметнала нагоре шала,обърната срещу прозореца, ми каже:„О, съвсем не е това,съвсем не съм помисляла това.“ (...)Ще ходя аз по плажа с бели панталони, бос,ще чувам песните на морските сирени все със същия въпрос.Не мисля, че ще пеят зарад мене.И аз ги виждам как са яхнали вълните на морето,те решат белокосите вълни, които връща вятърът надире,по бялата и черната вода, когато вятърът засвири.Ние ще бродим в залите, дълбоко под морето,сирените ще ни окичат с водорасли, червени и кафяви,додето ни събудят човешки гласове и се удавим."("Любовната песен на Дж.
Surprise, surprise, Mr. Eliot has a way with words.Somehow I had managed not to read any Eliot until now, but he is obviously pretty great.
My main concern with this collection is that I am sure there is plenty of subtext and deeper symbolic meaning that I have missed (and would probably need some sort of annotated edition to help me in this regard), but other reviewers have noted this problem and yet still said that this knowledge didn’t impair their enjoyment (and thus given the collection five stars anyway), so although it bothered me a bit and the thought distracted me and stopped me from being immersed in my reading I suppose it shouldn’t bother me as much as it actually does.
"Στα θαλάσσια δώματα πλανιόμαστεστεφανωμένοι από ξωθιές με φύκια πορφυρά ώσπου φωνές ανθρώπων μας ξυπνάνε, και πνιγόμαστε.""Πού είναι η Ζωή που χάσαμε ενώ ζούσαμε; Πού είναι η σοφία που χάσαμε στη γνώση;""Πήγαινε, πήγαινε, είπε το πουλί: το ανθρώπινο το γένοςδεν την αντέχει την πολλή πραγματικότητα."
My life is light, waiting for the death wind,Like a feather on the back of my hand.Dust in sunlight and memory in cornersWait for the wind that chills towards the dead land.These selected poems were excellent. Such skill but also a lot of profoundness. Also very insightful, I could relate and found myself in many of these. In addition to my old favourites - The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock and Wasteland - I found many many others such as Ash-Wednesday and Ariel Poems. Also, reading aloud Choruses from 'The Rock' is fun.
This selection contains poems from  Prufrock and Other Observations , Poems 1920, and  Ariel Poems ; choruses from his play "The Rock"; and the full texts of  The Waste Land ,  The Hollow Men , and  Ash Wednesday , From  Prufrock and Other Observations ...Let us go then, you and I, When the evening is spread out against the sky Like a patient etherized upon a table; Let us go, through certain half-deserted streets, The muttering retreats Of restless nights in one-night cheap hotels And sawdust r

**edited 01/29/14In general, my reading tastes are pulp-press-simple.
I have very little understanding of what is going on in the poems themselves, but the lines that are so seeped in meaning and imagery and are so tangible that I can taste them as I read.
I remember having to analyse the first part of "The Waste Land" in high school, and, for once, hating the ponderous application of reason and logic and inference and analysis to something that, to me, stands outside and in some ways beyond meaning.So I don't really analyse the poems.
I just read them for those evocative lines.
I confess; for the most part his referencing is so obscure that 90% goes right over my head, but as I'm going to be actually studying the poems in detail and university, I've been doing some research as I go along (hence making me understand them and appreciate them a lot more).His poems are, in essence, right up my street: often dark and melancholy; reminiscent of years past, rather than filled with optimism of the present and the future.
I myself frequently write dark, negative poetry, rather than happy positive verse.
The poems in this collection are arranged in a sort of progression of quality (in my mind). Prufrock is good, The Waste Land is insight, Ash Wednesday is beauty and The Rock is prophesy. I never knew I liked Mr. Eliot so much.
Read this a couple times before. The religious poems are shit. The rest are pretty good.
TS Eliot is one of my favorite poets. I love his earlier works. The Collection itself was great, including some of his greatest known poems. But I really don't like his later works and Ash Wednesday and work that follows it is like a turning point for me. I wish this collection included less of his later works and more of his earlier works. It was just a dread to get through second half of this collection.
И сърцето ми изгубено се радва и смразяваОт изгубения люляк и изгубената морска вряваИ слабият дух оживява за да въстане (...)Нашият мир е в Неговата воля С всяко следващо четене на Т.С. Елиът откривам още и още нови причини да се връщам отново към него. Времето, прекарано с поезията на този човек, е един безкраен виолетов час. ♡Чудесен превод на Владимир Левчев.
Though I finished the entire selection, I picked up this particular volume mainly to read "The Waste Land", which is quoted heavily in the book Swan Song. The Hollow Men, Ash-Wednesday and The Waste Land were my favorites.  Between the idea And the reality Between the motion And the act Falls the Shadow
I think I'll have to return to these later in life. I found some definite merits in Prufrock and The Waste Land, but whatever aspect of them which has brought them universal acclaim eluded me. I do think, however, that The Hollow Men is an outstanding poetical achievement. And then the book trails off into irritating lamentations about spiritual decay...
There is no point in reviewing the voice of an absolute genius. The music and magic of Eliot's poetry is squarely within the realm of what Wittgenstein pointed up as the 'unspeakable' in the concluding line of the Tractatus, so I shall leave it as it is.
"Because I know that time is always timeAnd place is always and only placeAnd what is actual is actual only for one timeAnd only for one place"- Ash Wednesday
I understood about 1% of this, but it was great to know that one can appreciate a book or poetry collection without comprehending everything. I loved how the words just floated about the pages, the rhythm of the poems and the pictures Eliot conjured. I'm looking forward to reading this collection in a few years time and discovering just a little more than that 1% ...
Reading this collection over the past month, I thought I was going to give this poetry collection a solid 4 stars, with its beautiful, vivid writing, the imagery and the powerful poignancy of Eliot's lines - half the time I didn't quite understand the full gist and depth of each poem and their phrases (at first I panicked about that, but reading subsequent reviews by others informed me I'm not alone in this and Eliot is hard to fully understand his poetry sometimes, though the reading of it is not dense or wordy).
