https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/143224.Many_Dimensions
The major difference would be that "War In Heaven" is a Christian religious fantasy centring on The Holy Grail.
"Many Dimensions" is a spiritual fantasy using as its focus a strange stone with other-worldly powers originally possessed by Suleiman the Magnificent.
Events involve not only the major players but extend to Labour union relations, the government and even the international scene.The characters are somewhat better drawn in this novel.
Against him are set the trio of Lord Christopher Arglay the Chief Justice, Chloe Bernett, the latter’s secretary and the previously mentioned Ambassador Hajji.Apparently Chloe is the most vulnerable of this group but in the end she is the most significant figure and can be regarded as the main character in the novel.
There really isn't anything like this novel. Christianity permeates the writing without intruding--the most Christian character is anagnostic, followed by a Muslim. The goal is to submit to God as He presents Himself to you, in this case, as a fragment of the First Matter from which the cosmos was made. How Williams turns such a theological, abstract concept into a page-turner is beyond me, but I couldn't put it down.
Many Dimensions is about an all-powerful Stone which falls into the wrong hands.
It can do many things but not always when you want or how you want because the Stone is not only the source of tremendous power but also somehow represents “the End of Desire”.
It is certainly not a thing and It is always capitalized!Many Dimensions is a thought-provoking reading.
According to Williams, we all owe our lives to others—and not just during wartime.
This is am amazing novel! It is much more lively and engaging than some of CW's other, more obscure, works. Please check out my post about it, here: http://theoddestinkling.mymiddleearth....
Each novel touches on an archetypal subject: The Holy Grail, The Tarot Cards, The Stone From King Solomon's Crown (The Tetragramatton).
Naturally enough, the stone becomes an object of contention.
Charles Williams was a mystic, an inquirer into the invisible worlds.
Rather, the subject of Love is the focal point of Williams' writings.
A character makes this simple quote and it represents much of Williams' world view: "Love or be in Hell".
Williams writings explain aspects of Love in ways that I had never considered.
Many Dimensions isn't the greatest of Williams' novels.
I read Charles Williams every few years.
Most people will tell you that this book is “different,” and I agree, but that is leaving out brilliant, imaginative, powerful, incisive, witty, and—at times—frightening.
This story about a mysterious stone possessing mysterious powers will remind modern readers of Tolkien’s One Ring masterpiece, although its author Charles Williams (like Tolkien, a member of the Inklings) actually published his work six years before Gandalf knocked on Bilbo’s green door.
Characters, scenes, and pacing are all excellent.
Williams has mastered the art of revealing his cast almost exclusively through dialogue, himself rarely passing judgment on the characters or their actions, and simply allowing them to speak for themselves.
Lovely Charles Williams doesn't sacrifice any of his characters for mere plot.
Poor peripheral Pondon may be lost in yesterday, but Williams is not Tumulty and so Pondon doesn't just vanish from the story.
The vast shelves of my favorite used bookstore are crammed with fantasies and thrillers of people knowing what is right, knowing what to do, reclaiming a sacred object, fulfilling some task, restoring justice...
The story, for Williams, is in the people, not the Stone.
Oh, and for people who like this sort of thing (LIKE ME): Lord Arglay is fucking hot.
Williams didn't say it, he didn't need to; but Arglay's a babe.
What a character.
Charles Williams is not an approachable author. His books are difficult and weird. They generally become clear only on multiple re-reads. I think, though, that they are very much worth the time.
We might refer to this as the "Law of Nature," but (for reasons I will discuss below) Williams prefers the term "Organic Law." What exactly he means by this is often unclear, but it quickly transcends the legal context in which it is introduced (a main character is a judge who is writing a book on the evolution of human law over time) to apply to the metaphysical questions raised by the Stone.Organic Law and the StoneHere's what we can glean from the text about Organic Law:"[L]aw as a growing and developing habit of the human mind, with its corollary of the distinction between organic consciousness expressed in law and inorganic rules imposed from without" (42)."[H]e defined law provisionally as 'the formal expression of communal self-knowledge' and had an excursus comparing the variations in law with the variations in poetic diction from age to age" (152)"Arglay said [...] the law of cause and effect isn't really understood.
Sir Giles, that cheerful Diabolic scientist from War in Heaven, has found a Stone.
It also can self-replicate, and as the copies are given to people, they each have to deal with what the mystery it contains is.This book annoyed me to no end.
This is the second book of his I've read, after War in Heaven, and I'm already seeing a pattern:1.
Good people know about it, and endlessly jaw about the spiritual aspects of it without doing much of anything to actually deal with said object.
The artifact itself just tends to kill people, both good and evil.5.
We begin to feel the touch of the numinous, and there are some very successful scenes, for example, Sir Giles Tumulty's final confrontation with the Stone, where he does pull off his later trick of making all of us experience, however much at a remove, something of transcendence, but too much space that could be taken up with philosophical exploration is filled with (albeit rather good) satire at the expense of politicians and trade unionists.One final thing: Williams suggests a fascinating and, I think, unique theory of time travel in this book.
Though, did I expect anything less from a guy who regularly shared story ideas, philosophy, and theology with JRR Tolkien and CS Lewis?
It's certainly no Tolkien but it does bare some similarities to CS Lewis' stranger stuff such as Till We Have Faces, The Dark Tower, and That Hiddeous Strength.
One guys gets stuck in a circle of time, forever repeating the same 10 minutes.
But really what it is about is, "what would we do if we had access to the Greatest Power?" And, "If God is the Greatest Power, and if we have access to Him, do we use Him, protect Him, or be used by Him?"
Williams is the least known of the Inklings, the group of writers who met weekly in a pub in Oxford.
He was active in several esoteric groups for years before committing to Christianity and I find the influence those teachings as dominant as the Christian themes in his books.Many Dimensions is about the alchemical concept of the Prima Materia, the stuff out of which reality is created.
I think all of Williams' novels are worth reading as curiosities, as introductions to esoteric ideas, or as very original understandings of Christian thought.They're pretty compelling as novels, too, but they're dated.
Charles Williams' books were amongst the few I kept aside when I disposed of most of the roughly 6000 hard-copy book library prior to moving just over a year ago.
My copy of Many Dimensions bears my name and the year I bought it - 1968.
I found the language less dense than that in my rereading of The Place of the Lion - or perhaps the density was more fitting and acceptable in the context of the philosophy and theology of this narrative.
Again, glad I kept this volume to reread nearly 50 years after purchasing it.
As with other Williams novels I've read its very tough going - hopefully at the end it will have been worth the effort!
I'll probably have to read the explanation of Thomas Howard to figure out what I read and missed!
I'm almost done and haven't "gotten it" much yet.
Am I that dense or was Williams a bad writer?
I think I got more in the course of reading from "The Place of the Lion" and "Descent into Hell" than from this one - maybe they were better written.
I'd like to see the movie versions of all of them!
This book is amazing. Fans of Lewis' That Hideous Strength will really enjoy this. It turns out That Hideous Strength is Lewis' attempt to write like Williams. The writing is a little vague at times, but in terms of general mood and concepts conveyed this is really something. All the symbolism and literary references make my head spin. I can't wait to get my hands on every one of Williams' novels.
When taking creative writing in college I remember my professor stating, "Don't tell me the story. Show me the story!" In that sense, I love how Williams lays out his characters with all blemishes showing and depends on the judgement of the reader to draw their conclusions. His command of words and the clarity with which he demonstrates complex ideas is astounding.
Charles Williams rocks my world. Every time I re-read this book I am inspired to think beyond my temporal surroundings.

A similar theme to War in heaven, but I felt the characters were more deeply drawn and the theology much better explored.
You don't have to understand every part of the theology to enjoy the book, indeed I think the thrust of the book is that there are things like this which can't be fully understood but must be taken seriously, and that people of good faith can work together to do the right thing and defeat the wrong things - it is actually an exciting thriller which I couldn't put down, but doesn't sound like that from my description!
This was an absolutely amazing book: it was a great follow-up to War in Heaven (though is also a standalone), and I really look forward to reading more of Williams' books!! The way he combines quaint British towns and people and ancient artifacts is just so entertaining and insightful. The characters were very enjoyable to read about and the mystery of the Stone (Solomon's stone) was an excellent focal point for the story that made it very interesting throughout.
An almost incomprehensible novel due to poor plotting and turgid prose. This is definitely the worst of the Charles Williams books I have read, but they all suffer from similar problems in varying degrees. I give it two stars simply for some interesting ideas that would pop out clearly from the fog before being obscured again.
The main supernatural phenomenon in this book by Williams seems even a little more far-fetched than his other works. However, after willingly suspending disbelief, it's an interesting exploration of what effects such an artifact might have. I especially liked the resolution in the end.
A strong idea, but the work is a little short of suspense and thrill.
Always enjoy this series.
Нечто среднее между Мамлеевым и Вудхаузом (sic!). Местами нудно, но описания трансцендентных состояний все кажутся убедительными.
This is my first Charles Williams novel; I intend to read more.Williams was a member of the Inklings, the Christian writers group which included CS Lewis and JRR Tolkien.
He was the weirdest and most unorthodox member of the Inklings; the most 'Christian' characters in this novel are either agnostic or Muslim.
He was clearly a deeply religious man, who had such experiences many, many times.I also got the impression that Williams was a really, really nice guy who I'd want to be friends with.
(Complicating all this is that I haven't been able to read like I should for a few weeks and that fragmented my appreciation of the narrative, which can't be helped.)Behind all this is a fascinating story that I'm convinced, in the right hands, could make a great movie that has many ordinary Hollywood aspects but is done differently, in ways that make the cliches fresh again.
Still, in the right hands, Charles Williams may be able to enjoy a movie renaissance.
For now, the books will remain our little secret.In addition: Owen Barfield's ideas show up very clearly in one passage identified with Lord Arglay (a protagonist).
Here we have the Stone (always capitalized whenever it appears) that represents the power of the universe, to be used for either ill or good.
A core theme that is developed through this book is how Evil always seeks power in separation while Good pursues power in union.
He observed that the only two days of creation which God did not look back on his creation as good was day one when he separated light and darkness and day two when he separated the earth and the heavens.
I would have liked this better if it would have stuck to the story. There was too much time spent on philosophy and theory. I guess I was lazy and didn't want to look deeper and find hidden meanings. It would have been fun to read in college where I could have discussed the fine details with other students.
