https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36679056-the-incendiaries
This novel about a young woman becoming immersed with a cult is beautifully written and full of propulsive tension.
It is clear he sees the world in a very narrow way, to his detriment and also Phoebe’s, his girlfriend for most of the novel.
When focused on Will’s POV the novel soars.
It is uneven though when focusing on John Leal and Phoebe and that’s a shame as they are both integral to the novel’s climax.
I would have loved to see Phoebe more fully fleshed out but perhaps her elusiveness is the point after all.
"Hip-hop pulsed, rolled. Pale limbs shone." "The room clattered into motion." Inanimate objects verbed. So many inanimate objects did so much verbing. Limbs throbbed. Fingers flew over keyboards. Eyes rolled. Pages flipped. My brain wondered why everyone liked this book so much. Reviews bought it and slobbered. Prose purpled itself into oblivion. Plots did not happen. Sentences sparkled themselves to death. Character motivations made no sense. Hemingway's grave was rolled over in.
And now for the me part.I knew I had to read this book after seeing  some of Kwon's comments about its subject matter and her own experience growing up very religious only to leave religion behind.
(See my "religion" shelf) I knew I would read this novel and I was hopeful that I would see some of what I've hoped for in it.Faith, gaining it and losing it, is Kwon's central concern and there were times in this book when the pinpoint accuracy of a feeling would hit me right in the gut.
He left his Bible College for Edwards University.
He’s struggling with identity.Phoebe ( Korean), no longer believes in playing the piano.
“Why continue if can’t be a ‘brilliant’ pianist?” Will meets Phoebe at Edwards.
He ‘does’ believe in Phoebe.
Phoebe gets drawn in.
This book was a combination of....a little confusing...( as to what I’m most suppose to take away from this novel), mysterious & eerie...creepy violence....Short!
Maybe longer would have allowed me to feel more passion for this book.
Many issues are covered - I honestly need to think about this novel a little longer or read it again.
Whatever problems I had with this book, her language is incredibly strong in a way that I found unique.But even though the novels hits many high points for me and I am so very glad to have read it (and cannot wait for more people to read it so we can talk about my more spoilery thoughts), ultimately it did not quite work for me.
His obsession with Phoebe (obviously meant to be a replacement for his lost faith), while believable in the beginning, became less so as time went on.I also think that the book would have worked better without the added perspective of John (or more, what Will imagined John to think like), for me these chapters, while short, always took me right out of the flow.
I wanted to grab a copy of this book as it sounded so, so good, but I somehow managed to not download it time, and it was archived on NetGalley before I could get it.
It focuses in on many philosophical principles surrounding existence, reason and knowledge, and the belief that there is an all seeing entity who has the power to forgive us for our sins.The three main characters - Will Kendall, Phoebe Lin and John Leal - are all flawed individuals, each with their own plans on what they want from life.
“The Incendiaries” is a sharp little novel as hard to ignore as a splinter in your eye.
But R.O. Kwon, the 35-year-old Korean American author, doesn’t make it easy to get her debut out of your system.At its core, “The Incendiaries” is about religious fervor, which has long functioned as America’s nuclear fuel: useful and energizing, except when it melts down and explodes.
The Pilgrims, after all, were motivated by faith in their special calling.
But nuance is the first thing sacrificed in most arguments about the relative blessings and dangers of faith — which is what makes “The Incendiaries” so.
This is an incredibly strong book, but it's also deeply uncomfortable to read.This book follows one character's descent into a cult, told from the perspective of her boyfriend.
Because of this, you can never write Phoebe's decisions off as just plain "bad." You understand why she falls in with the Jejah cult, why she trusts John Leal, why and how she becomes radicalized, and it makes you, as a reader, feel deeply conflicted and uncomfortable.I enjoyed the structure of this book quite a bit as well.
There are small excerpt chapters about John Leal's life, and they are unsettling.
She too is struggling with her faith, especially after her mum dies in a car crash.John Leal is the leader of a religious cult called Jejah.
I’m no expert on cults or religious movements but did wonder if someone would become so fully involved so quickly changing from someone who loves to party to a fully fledged fanatic giving all her time to the movement.The book makes you look at the world around you.
If you are religious then this book may speak to you more than it did to me, especially if you have ever questioned your faith.There’s no doubt that this is a powerful book and it’s hard to believe that it has been written by a debut novelist.
I’ll start by saying the version I read is an arc so maybe a lot has changed or will change in publication, but I’m a bit confused by all the glowing reviews of this book.
I kept looking to the back cover re-reading the description waiting for the story I’ve been promised to occur.
Finally, with about 30 pages left it happens.
The bombing happens, true, and Will does look for Phoebe, for like a day.
Most of the book is spent developing Will & Phoebe’s not so amazing relationship.
I don’t know how to review this book! It’s odd AF but an impressive debut nonetheless. Kwon places three characters at an elite American university and uses their stories to explore the relationships between faith, love, loss, guilt, grief and zealotry.3.5 rounded up to a 4 for the splashy, vivid writing.
While The Incendiaries presented an engaging story, it is bogged down by the writing.
Ornate descriptions and archaic word choices detracted from the storyline.
Passages like: “Now that I had time, the hours felt like a wasteland.
Old ambitions flopped like stranded fish.” “It could be a sign; a Daedalus thread, the implied promise of return.” “The coarse hair strewn in Phoebe’s sheets, bijou rays of gold”.
Instead of enhancing the imagery, the pretentiousness of the language and the figures overshadows the story.
As I reader, I felt like I was swimming through jello to try to get to the narratives.
It’s no coincidence his last name rhymes with zeal.Much of the book is filtered through Will’s perspective; even sections headed “Phoebe” and “John Leal” most often contain his second-hand recounting of Phoebe’s words, or his imagined rendering of Leal’s thoughts – bizarre and fervent.
In particular, we’re left to question how Phoebe could be transformed so quickly from a vapid party girl to a religious extremist willing to suffer for her beliefs.Kwon spent 10 years writing this book, and that time and diligence come through in how carefully honed the prose is: such precise images; not a single excess word.
10 out of 5 stars.
The book is eerie, and unsettling, but also sweet and beautiful...
and you read the story from the outside...
then all at once a simple narrator change grounds everything, makes it a story you or I could be part of.
I sympathized with Phoebe until it was time to see her from a distance, which was clever.
I took notes about Will until it was time to see through his eyes, and I could.
I love this book.
I am hungry to read it again.
I am eager for many others to read it, too.
Will tries to stop Phoebe from getting swallowed up by the growing extremism, but when she needs him most, he betrays her in a gruesome way - and disaster unfolds...While it is a little obvious which strings Kwon is pulling here, it still makes for an interesting narrative: We witness the major part of the story through the eyes of Will, a lapsed Christian trying to understand his own faith and the dynamics of a cult, which of course makes for an interesting perspective, and the plot twist is very unexpected.
While it becomes clear why he would act as he does, it's intriguing how Phoebe and, to a point, also Will start promoting his cause, although they initially question whether it is worthy - in this novel, the comfort of faith comes with a high price.
This wasn’t a bad read at all but I had a lot of trouble getting into it, and honestly I did not find the characters very likable. The book was odd but it does stay with you after you close the finished book. I really do not know how to review this book. At a loss really.
For me, this was the case of a poorly written blurb inciting false expectations.
Prospective readers are told that the novel's narrator Will "struggles to confront the obsession consuming [his girlfriend Phoebe], and the fundamentalism he's tried to escape." This is true.
But the narrative is not really what readers are told to expect.
On another note: I can't remember the last time I read a novel where the unreliable narrator admits his own unreliability - something Will affirms again and again when chronicling events from other characters' points of view (Phoebe and cult leader John Leal, specifically).
Both come under the influence of John Leal, a charismatic former Edwards University student who was previously captured and released by North Korea and is now the leader of a religious extremist cult known as Jejah.
What is fascinating about all three characters, is that we never really feel like we can trust them, as they are all hiding something: Will is embarrassed by his poverty; Phoebe's exuberant, popular-girl persona masks a deep grief and fierce battle with depression; and John's magnetism is highly questionable given his extreme methods of recruitment and leadership.
As Will attempts to fill in the gaps of Phoebe's story, certain limitations in his perspective become apparent, and his idealistic construction of Phoebe's character feels like a deliberate riff on similar narratives which use this device without the same awareness of it.
This isn't handled seamlessly from start to finish, but I mostly appreciated what Kwon was trying to achieve with the perspective angle.My biggest issue with this book was the way in which Phoebe and Will's characters are both distilled down to a single element (Will's loss of faith, Phoebe's guilt), and John Leal is such a nonentity that he really only exists as a plot device.
Alternately poetic and distancing. This book raises interesting push-pull debates over religion and love yet by the end, I wasn't pulled in enough to care...
It is a shortcoming of mine and not a problem with the novel that I could not appreciate what it is like to lose one's faith.
I do have faith (I’m catholic) and could not imagine losing it.
That the main narrator should be the white male — he is the one who gets to tell the story — speaks to me of erasure.
Nowhere is Will's male aggression more critiqued than when (view spoiler)[he rapes Phoebe to get her to leave the cult (hide spoiler)].
I will say however, that it has made this book slightly hard to review, I am interested to see what people from all walks of life thought of it because for me I drew a lot from my experience growing up in Northern Ireland and seeing the impact of new avenues of religions gathering almost cult like followings (not that I was ever part of them but they were are a large component of the town where I grew up).The Incendiaries is not an overly comfortable read, I would not recommend it for a lazy Sunday reading in a coffee show but it is a beautifully written and profound novel.
I love how Will's faith, that once burned with a white hot fervour, is still something that he misses.
The conflict between the certainties of faith and struggling when you no longer have that as a foundation to build on.
And more obliquely the notion that religion needs to make demands to incite fervour, that simply espousing kindness hardly invokes devotion.
It's not like I'm saying if you practice the faith it's only a matter of time before you're blowing up a building.
I'm struggling to clarify my ideas so I should cut Kwon some slack for being as slippery as she was.
A dark, eerie, oddly intimate, profound little book!Lots of the novels I’ve been reading lately seem to be revolving, in some way or another, around faith, in all its complexities. Occasionally it’s overtly stated in the blurb, but there are times when even that cannot dampen the impact. Having been warned prior to reading  The Incendiaries  that it features a religious group, John Leal’s character and his extremist cult still managed to make me really uncomfortable. I don’t mind, if it’s one we
A dark, eerie, oddly intimate, profound little book!Lots of the novels I’ve been reading lately seem to be revolving, in some way or another, around faith, in all its complexities.
Occasionally it’s overtly stated in the blurb, but there are times when even that cannot dampen the impact.
Having been warned prior to reading 
The Incendiaries
that it features a religious group, John Leal’s character and his extremist cult still managed to make me really uncomfortable.
I don’t mind, if it’s one well, and Kwon’s somewhat emotionally distant tone kept me going.
A short book and a fast read but the writing style is fuzzy and imprecise so that the whole thing has a foggy, opaque feel.
The idea is good but the book feels oddly detached, more cerebral than the material warrants.What is smart, though, is telling the whole thing through Will's eyes, even the sections marked Phoebe and John Leal, so that we see his imaginings and fantasisings after the end.
This is slimmer and narrower in scope than the blurb promises but for all its over-heated writing, it has something that kept me reading to the end.
This is one of those books I wanted to love but unfortunately missed the mark for me.
It is possible that there were formatting issues in my advance reader copy, as I had a hard time deciphering whose point of view it was, as well as distinguishing between dialogue and narration.
Hopefully those issues became more clear in the final copy of this book.
I know many others did enjoy this book, so it is worth reading and deciding for yourself.
This book was provided to me by the publisher in exchange for an honest review.
Really disappointed in this one.The story is worthwhile, the themes are even better.
But it fails in almost every respect of the telling.First-person was a mistake.
Both the primary characters frequently sound like mouthpieces.
And why are they telling the story in this way?
The form is unimaginable; are these confessions?
About every other page I’d get distracted by a word I didn’t believe for a second would be used by the character.Ms. Kwon is conscientious and insightful, and I hope she works through her griefs to hone her considerable gifts into fiction that serves both her story and the reader.
3.5 Stars. Review to come.
The main characters: John Leal, once a prisoner at a North Korean gulag, now the charismatic leader of a Christian cult of hand-picked followers; Phoebe, a lapsed Korean-American piano prodigy and a student with a penchant for party-going who, unexpectedly, falls under Leal’s spell; Will Kendall, her boyfriend, who has enrolled at Edwards from Bible college after losing his strong Evangelical faith.The novel turns the narrative on its head, presenting us at the very start with the most momentous episode in the story, a terrorist attack in which Phoebe is clearly implicated.
The Incendiaries is a haunting debut by a writer I will definitely be following with high expectations. It is an intimately told story about loss and the choices we make as a result of our grief. The writing is sharp and propulsive, and the themes are quite brilliantly tackled. I'm left thinking that people are narrow-minded when I comes to love and faith, and often it's to our detriment when we are blind sided by the actions of those closest to us. For me, that is biggest takeway from this novel.
