https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/103658.Garfield_at_Large
I laughed a lot while reading this.
3.0 stars. Until Calvin and Hobbes and The Farside came along, Garfield was the gold standard for humorous comic strips. This is the first collection of America's favorite fat cat.
Garfield doesn't get old...ever! Sure brings back memories of childhood checking these comics out at the Library. Garfield what an icon!
I could easily read a book of Garfield comics three times this long and want more, and you know a strip is doing some things right when readers say that.
The June 29 strip (page seven), about Jon not wanting Garfield to drink coffee because it might stunt his growth, is a funny one.
August 8 (page twenty-four) is another landmark day as a man named Lyman moves in to Jon's house and brings his dog...named Odie.
August 16 (page twenty-seven) is another laugh-out-loud example of Garfield's anti-Odie campaign, the punchline being his suggestion of the manner in which Lyman should discipline the dog.
True fundamendalist adherents of Garfield must obey the orthodoxy pronounced in this original scripture.All after has been derivative blasphemy!We do not even know if this is the real Jim Davis at the pulpit of Odie and Garfield.I mean, Lyman! What happened to Lyman?Is he somewhere else?Is he leading a breakaway sect?I shudder to think that Garfield Orthodoxy is now down to Garfield Lite, so to speak.Opening Garfield's eyes widers merely closes ours to the True Garfield!
1. Op Eigen Beenen - Babs van der HoevenEen heerlijk meisjesboek uit 1934, over twee zussen die beiden 'op zichzelf' gaan, en uiteindelijk natuurlijk een droomman tegenkomen.
Het was wel een leuk boek, maar het las niet zo lekker en snel als ik gewend ben.3.
Dina's Reisavontuur / Een Teleurstelling - Tine Brinkgreve-WicherinkEcht een jong meisjesboek, over een onnadenkend, slordig meisje die van Brabant naar Groningen moet treinen, en in Arnhem hopeloos verdwaald (1e verhaal), een een egoïstisch meisje die boos wordt op haar moeder die ziek is, omdat ze nu geen middagje uit kunne gaan (2e verhaal).
Vriendelijke Anarchie - Top NaeffIk ben toch best wel wat gewend, lees veel echt oude boeken, maar deze korte verhalen waren vaak niet om door te komen.
Classic. Highly recommended, especially for people owned by cats. Also interesting to see how Jim Davis drew Garfield so differently over time.My pre-divorce family bought the first few books way back from 1979 to 1985. We read them so much the color was coming off the covers. Somehow after my parents divorced, the Garfield books disappeared. I do miss this book (and number 2) and may one day buy replacement copies.
The Ur-Garfield, when he was uglier and funnier.
FUNNY!!!!!! I ALWAYS LOVE reading these Garfield books!!! :D
I find the current Garfield comics in the newspapers are not as funny as they used to be, so it was nice to read the original ones. Very funny.
This book is VERY funny, it is about Garfeild a fat cat that loves to eat and tries to make other people life misrable by kicking odie off tables and scraching John all over the place , Garfiel knows that john likes the vet and garfeild being fat is the the key .
Why he liked to kick and scratch john and why he loved to eat sleep and annoy.
11/8/10 I read garfield goes to hollywood and it was hilarios/ garfield got to go to hollwood and wasnt so nice there either , he still scratched john and kicked odie and destroyed anyone whorubbed him the wrong way
I don't ever remember laughing at Garfield.
There's a bland comfort to it and, for a stretch in early Middle School, bland comfort was preferable to none.I consumed all the Garfield books in the Middle School library, idly wondering when something new would happen to shake up the Groundhog Day-esque loop in which they lived their lives, for a character to maybe grow or change.
As the library's stock dwindled, so to did my desire to wade through any more of Garfield's doldrums.In some ways the world of Garfield seems to represent some primal desire to keep everything safe by maintaining the conformity of each new day to the mold fixed by the last, but such a life seems more like death by whimper.
Five stars for "Garfield"?
Seriously?
Well, even if I wasn't in a 'five-stars-for-everything' mode, I might be able to justify five stars for this particular collection, because I loved it when I was in my teens, even though I didn't remain a fan - either Jim Davis lost his edginess, or I got more edgy.
The latter seems unlikely because I'm as un-edgy as they build 'em - so I'll guess the fault's with Mr. D.
Nonethelest, I don't know if I'd re-read this one, because I might not like it as much, but no worries because I'd liked it so much that 'twas read several times.
Mrs. Powell was my high school drama teacher. She had a thing for wooden spoons, with which one was recognized for working on multiple plays, and another thing for Garfield. Between the copies lying around her classroom and around her house, I packed in a fair few readings. Let me just say that my respect for Mrs. Powell is such that I will not openly mock the books.
I loved Garfield as a kid. In retrospect it's not as funny as I remember, and it certainly isn't great now, but Garfield was simply the comic of it's time. Since then we've had The Far side, Calvin & Hobbes, The Boondocks, and my personal favorite Cul-de-sac. Jim Davis was the link between these great strips and the wonderful strips of the past. He deserves his due.
I loved the Garfield books when I was in the early elementary school and practically learned to read from them.
It was one of the many moments that set the stage for my bleeding heart nature.Also, the early books had Jon with some strange mustachioed room-mate or something (now, it's obviously his swinging partner).
Nowadays, last I saw, it's all about setting up for the last panel where Garfield says from under his blanket "I hate Mondays."Also, I was fascinated with how a cat could engorge an entire pan of lasagna IN ONE GULP.
No, not fat - "pleasingly plump" like me!Jim Davis, if you are reading this, thanks so much for all the joy you have given me for over thirty years!When I review a Garfield book, I like to copy the one I really liked; one that made me pause and reflect or simply laugh out loud.Here is the one for this edition.Jon is sitting in his favorite easy chair, looking a little glum.
Garfield comes up to him, and sits on his lap.
Jon looks at Garfield and says, "Cats are nice to have when you're feeling lonely!"So true!
When I was working in any of the many bookstores where I was employed and I did not want (or have the time) to read my current book, I would grab one of these collections to read on my too short break.
I slowly but surely worked my way through several series.
These are great time killers and will usually improve your mood no matter how hectic the day.
A fat, lazy cat who loves lasagna.
A drooling dog to act as the cat's patsy but still manages to have his day every once in a while.

He's five times the size in this book as he is ten or so years later.Sarcastic, never serious, bird-lover, fish-eater, mouse-ignorer, dog-hater, Garfield is mostly a normal cat, just with intellectual insights at what an owner must look like from his pov.
I like when he makes fun of Odie or Jon or gets into impossible situations (esp regarding the mailman).
His Christmases and camp trips are fun to read about.I don't care about reading about Jon's attempts at dating.
They're not as funny as Garfield himself.Watching Garfield go on diet or lose his temper or have an eating or napping spree .
that's funny.
It seems every time I pick up a Garfield book I can't put it down. The books are simple, funny and unforgettable. Sure, most of the books have the same type of jokes and plots, but they are always treated differently so they don't get old. It's also neat to see how much Garfield has changed throughout the years. In the first book he is a really big cat, but in the newer books/strips he is much thinner and walking on two legs! I definitely recommend all Garfield books to all people. They're sure to brighten a dull day!
I was such a big Garfield fan starting in 1979 and continuing into the early 80's. I loved Garfield and everything about Garfield. I know my love affair started when Jon told Garfield he wished he knew what he was thinking. Garfield thought - If I could speak, I'd tell you I just killed a fly on your raisin toast.For the last 35 years, I've carefully looked at my raisin toast.And, no, I'm not a Garfield fan anymore. I moved on. I still have all the books, though. And I debate on what to do with them.
Garfield at Large is the first book in the Garfield (Comic) series. I enjoyed it. While I didn't really grow up with it I do have memories of some of the comic strips and the TV show, so it was fun getting to see the comic strips and I look forward to seeing more. Some of the highlights in this book were the introduction of Odie the dog, and of course Garfield being Garfield - whether he is "exercising", plotting against Odie, getting food, or terrorizing the mailman it's all good fun.
If you're a true fan of Garfield then you need to read the original collection in this book. To me, this book brought up more questions then it did answers though. What happened to this mysterious roommate, Lyman? I know at our library, Garfield is king when it comes to children's interests. We can't keep them on the shelves so be sure to let your child read a couple. It might just spark their interest in reading!
A classic in cartooning if you have not read or seen a Garfield cartoon then I kindly ask you get out from under your rock and then proceed to hit yourself with said rock. Garfield is a funny feline who loves to eat, mess with Odie (his brother and a dog) hate mondays and eat some more as well as mess with Jon (his owner and a real nerdy guy who can't get a date)! Jim Davis is a brilliant writer and cartoonist who in my eyes has never failed to create laughs and promote lasagna!
I absolutely love Garfield! I find the humor almost relaxing. Nothing complex or vulgar. Just pure and simply hilarious! He is a mean, fat, lazy cat that loves lasagna and taking naps! The best part is is nap attacks and when he gets mad at john for ignoring his purrs! ha poor Odie gets the short end of the stick staying at Jon's house. Love that Garfield chases the mail man! :) Great comic can't wait to read the rest!
I went through a phase with these books, from about third through fifth grades. I carried them everywhere. The summer between fourth and fifth grade, I lugged them to YMCA summer camp every day in my backpack so I could sit and read them. I stopped reading Garfield by the time sixth grade rolled around. Then, my nephew picked them up when he turned seven or eight, and I went through it all over again with him.
This graphic novel is about a fat cat and his life. It is a comedy book with many different situations in which Garfield faces at a cat each day. This book is in the genre of comedy and is for children ages 7-12 years old. I rated this book three stars because it is very comical and portrays many true aspect about life. Some common themes in this book are comedy, simplicity, and family.
I was addicted to these as a kid. I drove my parents insane following them around demanding, "Read this one!" I'm sure that my Dad regretted owning a bookstore. As an adult, I foster cats, and every foster kitten has a picture taken in a box labeled "to: Abu Dhabi." None of my two personal cats are obese, but one is especially adept at tossing chihuahuas off furniture using only one paw...
I read many of these books when I was a kid. Garfield was a favorite in our house: all of us kids had the stuffed animals and watched the Saturday morning cartoon show "Garfield and Friends," but it started with us reading many of these books. My brother owned most of them since he loved comics the most, but I owned this one first and then passed it on to him when I got older.
