https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/126274.Understanding_Media
If you're going to start spouting off about cognitive science and social psychology you better bring some hard evidence to support your claims or no one will take you seriously.I really want to give this book a higher rating, because some of his ideas are very interesting and sound plausible and I do think I have learned to look at media and world history in a new way.
McLuhan is a nut. 50% of what he says is completely unintelligible bollocks, 20% of it is kind of interesting throw-away, and the other 30% is the most forward-thinking genius that has yet to be realized. it's kind of like he was looking into the future through fogged lenses...couldn't quite make everything out, but a good enough ideas.
Part IIntroduction--The Medium is the Message--Media Hot and Cold--Reversal of the Overheated Medium
These days, he is perhaps best known as the originator of phrases like "the medium is the message" and "the global village," as well as for his brief cameo in Annie Hall.Understanding Media, which was first published in 1964, constitutes the most representative expression of McLuhan's ideas.
Without a doubt, the book's thesis—thatthe mass media of today are decentralizing modern living, turning the globe into a village, and catapulting twentieth century man back to the life of the tribe—would have resonated with a post-Second World War public, one questioning the civility of Western "civilization." However, looking back at McLuhan's theory from a 21st century vantage point, several significant defects become apparent.First, Understanding Media reads more like a manifesto than a scholarly exposition.
As the electronic world began to take over in the 50s and 60s, McLuhan predicted many of the ways it would change us (now in 2012 we are tied to our various "screens," we deal with constant "media fallout," and we expect things to be instant, which has ended our reliance on lineality and allowed us to greatly expand our knowledge and collective awareness).
The problem with so much au courant media theory is that it a) goes out of date real fast, and b) is frequently falsified within ten years.
But the whole concept of hot versus cool media is suspicious, as are some of his inferences, à la Freud.However, he's so damned bright that I was still wowed.
McLuhan was to media studies as Freud was to psychology, Eliade to comparative religion, or Durkheim to sociology: a thinker who, while flawed, revolutionized a discipline, and for that alone is respectable.
An original book, certainly. Useful academically, especially to make sense of those little details you don't seem able to fit anywhere. Pretty heavy to follow at times, but deff worth reading and rereading when needed.
The first section of Understanding Media is spent presenting this overall idea – the second half of the book analyzes a multitude of case studies of media forms.I find McLuhan's ultimate message that we have utterly failed to understand the way in which media have effected our lives strongly resonates, and unfortunately, seems to have changed little in the 40 yeas since Understanding Media was written.
This is an important failure for a piece of cultural criticism, but the strength of McLuhan's ideas make Understanding Media an important read nonetheless.
Poi ci si chiede perché MML veniva chiamato già negli anni '70 il "guru dell'informazione": aveva previsto tutto, persino l'effetto di internet o dei social media!
Grazie al bombardamento mediatico di informazione su guerre, drammi, disgrazie, disastri, omicidi, alla volgarizzazione di emozioni e sentimenti, al sensazionalismo giornalistico, i media non sono più in grado di colpire in profondità la nostra sensibilità, anestetizzata dall'eccesso di esposizione.
L'orizzonte del ricordo si va sempre più abbreviando e con lui anche le motivazioni ideali dell'indignazione etica e morale, della reattività emozionale ad avvenimenti proposti in sequenza sugli schermi, su internet, sui giornali.
One of the clearest examples would be the massive transformation of society by the invention of the printing press in the fifteenth century, which led to the democratisation and diffusion of knowledge to the masses – of course there is some interest in the contents of the books or tracts of the time, but it is the societal shift that is the more important implication of this technology.
"non-intellectual") people could tell you who Marshall McLuhan was, the word most likely to be associated with his name would be "incomprehensabilty." This is not without reason.
Reading McLuhan is indeed a little like reading stereo assembly instructions from the future.
Made all the more puzzling by the fact that virtually none of the words he uses are unfamiliar, his concepts nonetheless at first seem to be out of the reader's league, if not of another sport, on another planet.McLuhan observed and wrote about the effects on the human race of "media," extensions of the human organism, which had never been considered as such.
یه کتاب خوب برای درک عمیق از رسانهها و شناخت شرایط زمینهای ایجاد رسانهها و چیستی اثرگذاری آنهامعرفی کامل این کتاب در وبلاگم با آدرسhttp://safaeinejad.ir/1395/06/31
یه کتاب خوب برای درک عمیق از رسانه‌ها و شناخت شرایط زمینه‌ای ایجاد رسانه‌ها و چیستی اثرگذاری آنهامعرفی کامل این کتاب در وبلاگم با آدرسhttp://safaeinejad.ir/1395/06/31
I'm reading a book of essays by Iris Murdoch, and in between her discussions of Kant and Sartre she has some space to cast aspersions on McLuhan.Well, here is the most lucid thing I've read on McLuhan: http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publica...I can't help but agree with the author that McLuhan was a big-picture thinker who gave us a language and a way of thinking that we badly needed, but most of whose actual practical pointers are misleading.
It is the transition that produced the now quite correct observation: "If it works, it's obsolete." When electric speed further takes over from mechanical movie sequences, then the lines of force in structures and in media become loud and clear.
UNDERSTANDING MEDIA is a challenging, zesty, occasionally outrageous book that was first published in 1964 and sent media studies -- and their applications to such fields as advertising --straight into orbit.
McLuhan coined the term "global village" and that's just one of his many contributions to the fledgling field of media studies.
Nearly fifty-five years later, many of McLuhan's insights seem not so revolutionary -- such as his statement that the American economy in the early 1960's was based on television just as surely as the economy of the Deep South prior to the Civil War was based on cotton.
Here's another great one: "The hotting-up of the medium of writing to repeatable print intensity led to nationalism and the religious wars of the sixteenth century." Thank god for that concise explanation!!Okay, I know I'm being unfair...McLuhan's 1964 publication was tremendously important, and had a great impact on many fields of research.
But this shouldn't be surprising for 1964, and indeed McLuhan's interest in human primitivity with respect to senses and technology is an interesting potential historical research topic in its own right.
He states, "Rapidly we approach the final phase of the extensions of man-the technological simulation of consciousness, when the creative process of knowing will be collectively and corporately extended to the whole of human society, much as we have already extended our senses and our nerves by the various media.
Whether [this]...will be 'a good thing' is a question that admits of a wide solution...Some feel keenly that speed-up has impoverished the world they knew by changing its forms of human interassociation...But all the conservatism in the world does not afford even a token resistance to the ecological sweep of the new electric media." How true.
They have only to try out their theory for fifty consecutive words in the mass medium of the English language.
If all English were enunciated at a Mandarin level of uniform elegance and sententiousness, would the language and its users be better served?
From this technological effect follows the further fact that the humor, slang, and dramatic vigor of American-English speech are monopolies of the semi-literate."Maybe eventually Benedict Anderson read this book (I have nothing intelligent to say about Imagined Communities and Nationalism because I've only read basically wikipedia and sparknotes about Anderson bc im garbage) and then wrote his thing?
In my working life, I sometimes run into people who seem very smart, but who are nearly unintelligible.
McLuhan creates categories of hot and cold media, implosions and explosions, things that are extensions of our hands, feet or nervous system, which all seem to have some basic validity, but from which he draws long threads of spurious meaning that tie his whole narrative into strange and confusing knots.
Anyone who analyzes human interaction in a way that looks only at the content of tramsmission and not at the method misses a vital part of the meaning.McLuhan is also smart, I think, in seeing media as extensions of our body.
Odborné, ale predovšetkým praktické a úsmevné príklady v kontexte médií. Marshall McLuhan s ľahkosťou prechádza naoko komplikované okruhy vychádzajúce z ľudského vedomia. V podtexte je možné badať čosi ako históriu modernej spoločnosti, alebo masovú filozofiu zmiešanú s výbornými mýtusmi. Kniha funguje aj ako selektívne čítanie. Teória na dobrú noc.
In some respects McLuhan was famously spot on - 'global village' is now part of the common lexicon, as electronic communication has indeed shrunk the world to the status of the mediaeval village - but in toto he was hit and miss, as exemplified by his oversimplification that 'the medium is the message' (fair enough, he seems to have been among the first to have really studied media as separate from message, and so perhaps he was merely exaggerating to make his point, but still, come on), and it's really of very little interest to read predictions and foggily-worded theories that long-ago proved false.UM isn't all prediction, it's also history and current social analysis, but unfortunately it's also hit and miss in these respects - more subjectively, of course.
Šią knygą į rankas paėmiau jau ne pirmą kartą, bet kiekvienąkart ji pasirodo kažkokia kitokia.Pirmame žurnalistikos kurse negalėjau pakęsti McLuhan ir jo knygų skaitymą garsiai paskelbiau kančia ir beprasmybe. Laikui bėgant, į jį ėmiau žiūrėti nuosaikiau ir, įveikusi nepasitenkinimą, galų gale peraikaužiau ir radau nemažai įdomių ir susimąstyti verčiančių idėjų. Vis tik jis kai ką sumala, kad būna arba neaišku, arba ima atrodyti, kad skirtingose knygos vietose pats sau prieštarauja... Šiaip vienas dalykas verčia žavėtis M.M.: nors jis rašė šią knygą prieš 60 metų, tik retkarčiais ji atrodo ne mūsų laiko. Įžvalgumo žmogui netrūko :)
This is the book that introduced the phrase “the medium is the message,” which is now so axiomatic in discussions of modern media that it constitutes a dominant paradigm (and will probably be overthrown by a new paradigm in a few years).
In addition to “the medium is the message,” there is the concept of the “global village,” which McLuhan coined.
Like many reviews suggest, Understanding Media: The Extensions of Man is a difficult read because of McLuhan's rambles and lacking evidence to support his many ideas on media as an extension of who we are as creators and consumers of content, as well as his philosophy that the medium is more important than the content it produces.
Be it a bit paranoid and dated, McLuhan does offer brilliant insights on a digital world we are still exploring today.His book his broken up into two parts.
But if you want to see different perspectives on how the digital world changes our lives physically and intellectually to make your own deductions, this book is the right choice.
09/23/2017: after returning to this work multiple times for research projects, I'm beginning to realize the genius behind it much more clearly than I did the first time that I read it.
Sometimes he uses it to utterly tear down other theorists who slightly deviate from his ideas, which I did not appreciate.
I would definitely consider this a well-written academic text, and I have even used multiple examples/ideas from this book in every-day discussions!
It is obvious that McLuhan is fully convinced of his ideas, and I admit that his thoughts do not lack in genius.
McLuhan's vision of a world where everyone is connected also involves a dismantling of the state in concert with a return to tribalism, where iconography and visual cues convey ideas, information, and associations in a manner that can't be accomplished by the written or spoken word, and in which the individual is subsumed by the whole.
In short: the hive mind is coming, talking or writing in opposition to such a change is futile (yes, the written and spoken word will soon be obsolete compared to the power of raw information), the notion that you are special as an individual is no longer of value, and it will be far better for you if you just get with the program.
The media has advanced far beyond the state that McLuhan covers in this book, making the book seem obsolete in many ways.
Third, the book is so theoretical (not a bad thing in itself) that it did not seem to address media as I experience them.
Fourth, some of the jargon has become a normal part of media discourse, and so I already know some of what I hoped to learn.
I was looking for something to challenge my assumption or open a new way of thinking.
The book did not do that.
Аннотацию читала очень и очень давно, поэтому ожидания были обманчивы - думала, что книга про современность (ТВ, интернет-издания, СМИ и т.д.), но оказалось, что "медиа" в названии книги значит "средства коммуникации", во что автор, в свою очередь, вкладывает такие средства взаимодействия между людьми, как телефония, телевидение, кино и радио - довольно близко, так или иначе, к тому, о чем я хотела прочитать.
Разве что со временем не угадала - книга резюмирует ситуацию, сложившуюся на конец 60ых - начало 70ых гг.
Читается она тяжело.
Крайне тяжело.
В любом случае, эти 700 страниц были полезными, но подробно их рассматривать не вижу смысла (мне лень, я ужасный рецензент).
As said in the book, "The media IS the message".
This phrase sums up a pretty profound revelation which is the topic of the book.
it is a mistake to assume that the content of media is the primary force which shapes culture and society.
Then it seems the book leveled out for the remainder, and actually felt pretty redundant and tedious.
In other words, I felt like all of the amazing content of this book was spent in the first 100 pages or so....
but amazing it is.
This book hurts my head..
We are reading it for a class at IIT Institute of Design and having great discussions about what McLuhan was trying to say and how his theories might be interpreted today.
If you want to understand a theory on how and why technology shapes our worldview and affects our way of life (in ways that we often can't even see because we can't distinguish it from our natural human selves and ways), then you should read this book.
This is a very important book to read.
McLuhan effectively examines the effects of all media (telephones, electric lights, tv, print, ect..) upon society.
His clear understanding of the power of man's extensions of self are well formed and outlined.
He has a very strong grasp of his topic, and very clearly describes it to any lay-person.I spoke with a friend who revisited McLuhan's theories when looking at the internet as a current example.
If you only read one non-fiction book this century, make it Understanding Media: The Extensions of Man!
