https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38648.The_Little_Princesses
This book caused quite a scandal when it was published 50 years ago. It was the first real expose on the royal family. I enjoyed reading about little Queen Elizabeth's upbringing, especially how the royal family coped during WWII. Marion was her nanny up until Elizabeth's wedding day, but she was banished forever from the royal family after she wrote this book, which was sometime after Prince Charles was born. She was able to witness extraordinary events in Britain's history and I think this document is an important record of royal memories from an outsider's point of view.
An inside look at the upbringing of the Princesses Elizabeth (current Queen of England) and Margaret Rose by their governess.
Elizabeth, called Lilibet in the family, is dutiful and serious while Margaret is a bit spoiled, a brilliant mimic, and a girl with a flair for comedy.
How they are limited by their royal roles, how their privacy is impinged upon, and how duties take a toll on the entire family is made clear, yet the the love of the British people for the royal family also comes through.
In 1933 Marion Crawford was hired by the Duke and Duchess of York to be a governess for their children, Princesses Elizabeth and Margaret.
It's not clear if she was anxious to continue serving the royal family or pressured to do so.The writing is simple and saccharine.
Crawford seems overly anxious to ensure the reader of the royal family's regard for her, showing the text of numerous affectionate letters from Princess Elizabeth and Queen Mary.
We get a nice glimpse of the lives of the royal family during WWII.
The first 'tell all' exclusive about the royal family was very tasteful and not at all salacious.
I was interested in what sort of education a future queen of England receives and this didn't disappoint, as well as a cautious revelation of the little girls' characters.
Also fascinating was the war time life of royalty, although referred to as 'frugal' by the governess as they moved from palace to victorian country house( in need of renovating), the girls enjoyed a lot of time outdoors, games and freedom after spending the morning in study.
This is a wonderful insight into Queen Elizabeth II and Princess Margaret’s childhood.
It was sad to see how cold they were towards their governess in the end.
Her account about their upbringing was beautifully written.
If this book was frown upon, I guess, the hint about Princess Margaret not being as smart as her sister is what the royals don’t want us to know.
I don’t think that is a big deal.
I liked the bit during the war.
I am not from that time period, so it was great to take a ride with the author to see what was happening back then.
This is an incredible book. I had no idea of how "royalty" lived and this tells the tale. It is hugely adoring yet still the author was ostracized for it. That is also amazing. Details like castles being cold without central heat, for example, are fascinating. And the courtship of Elizabeth by Philip. Or Margaret's tempestuous personality. Just fascinating.
I couldn't believe it when I heard that Marion Crawford was shunned by the Royal Family after writing this memoir...it is nothing if not a beautifully written, complimentary and loving portrait of Queen Elizabeth and Princess Margaret Rose as children and of their family. I enjoyed it immensely.
I loved this book!!! I couldn't stop reading it (i read it in 1 evening), it was so interesting. It is written by the Queen's nanny and gives an insight into the Queen's childhood. I loved the close relationship between the Queen, her sister and her parent's.
3.5 stars. This was really interesting to hear about queen Elizabeth from her teacher. The writing was a bit repetitive because it was adapted from a journal. Recommend!
There was absolutely nothing objectionable in the part of the book I'd read as far as language, violence, or situations.
But sadly, the book was also uninteresting.While I do enjoy sweet and clean books, I know there is a way to write them without being boring.
As the inquiry to write the book was coming about, Queen Elizabeth wrote to Crawford explicitly asking her not to write about their life.The book half that I read was filled with page after page of anecdotes about the girls (Elizabeth and Margaret) and their frocks.
So if this was the case the nanny was writing what she was told to write.The reader gains insight into the lives- but only just and written with a cosiness and professionalism- this was not intended to give away secrets or show the royal family in a different light- this was a member of staff who loved the family and I believed they did too, even Queen Mary confided in the nanny.It is a beautiful book and looking at this now knowing of kiss and tell stories, royal family members airing their laundry in public, this has innocence  written all over it.Why this back fired on the nanny one will probably never know, and why she was so cruelly shunned.The irony was on her death, she sent back all the letters she received - showing a devotion to the end.
Please don't think I didn't love this because it took me so long to read.
Quite the opposite, I wanted to savour it!I admit I am a tad daggy and into the royal family now.
crazier.Reading about young Elizabeth and Margaret was enchanting.
Such normal, funny little girls.I cried my way through the chapter about Elizabeth and Philip (just let them be together!!)My one complaint is what happened to our governess, Crawfie, who wrote this charming and beautiful memoir.
Because of cause, the royal family banished her after being part of their family (and giving up her own life) for years.
A friend mentioned that this book meant a lot to her while she was growing up, which piqued my interest though I've never been an anglofile, have not watched the PBS shows about the British monarchy or Downton Abbey. (I don't watch TV in general, anyway). Told by Crawfie, governess to the young Elizabeth & Margaret, it's a fascinating look into the domestic life of this family. It follows them through WWII, the princesses' maturation as they begin to take on the responsibilities of their roles, and Elizabeth's courtship and marriage to Prince Philip, and birth of their first child.
A fascinating account of the early childhood of Queen Elizabeth II and her sister Margaret, from the woman who took care of them. Although the publication of this book (which is rarely anything less that doting and affectionate) was considered an gross intrusion by the royal family, and caused a rift between them and Marion Crawford, it provides a valuable insight into the family at the time and remains a fascinating history of a way of life which has all but disappeared and the early years of the longest reigning British Monarch.

Charming memoir of a bygone ageA book written many years ago but it retains a certain charm and captures a bygone age. I do believe the Royal Family severed contact with Marion Crawford as a result of publication. Whilst seemingly innocent in content, I do think the book is written in a style which could be considered overly familiar in terms of royal protocol. Did Marion Crawford secretly resent her years of putting her life on hold ?
An interesting and enjoyable read about the Queen as a child. At some points, the book was a little repetitive and there were some cultural references I didn't understand, but if you need a good book to relax with, this is a good one!
Written in 1950, this intimate yet respectful remembrance of Elizabeth and Margaret is a sweet read. Many of "Crawfie"'s observations about the girls have been borne out in subsequent events. For Royal watchers, a great retrospective read.
Terrific read, insight into a family and British culture at the time. Did feel a little bad for the oh-so-correct way she basically says nobody likes Margaret XD
I read this book first when I was in school. I loved it then and still love it. It is apparent the love that Ms. Crawford had for the Royal family...
ExcellentExcellent read looking into the royal family. Crawfies first hand memories of Royal Family life is fascinating. Easy, feel good reading
this is a great picture of the home life that the princesses had growing up but author definitely thinks very highly of herself.
I thought this was a sweet story by someone who clearly adored her charges.
A very interesting look at the life of Queen Elizabeth and her sister, Margaret, as youngsters.
Beautiful written!It's a shame this book caused such controversy when it was 1st published, because Crawfie re-tells her memories with such affection which only strengthens my opinion of the Queen and her family!
A very basic book about the young life of Queen Elizabeth, her sister and her governess.
As noted in the forward, there is nothing shockingly revealed in this book, especially compared to what comes out now about the Royal Family.
I am a fan of the British monarch, but it truly breaks my heart to learn that this woman, after delaying her own life to serve her queen and country, was denied any communication by the royal family.
This book portrays the family as loving people - there is nothing in here to show that she didn't love them dearly.
But on reflection you can see that, although there is almost nothing within its pages that is critical of the family (except a very little criticism of the frviolity of Princess Margaret's teenage years), there is a lot of personal detail that the royal family may not have wanted to see publicised.
One also might wonder why, if Miss Crawford was really as fond of the royal family as she says she is in this book, she didn't ask them first before publishing.But still, the book is fascinating, and should be enjoyed by anyone who has any interest in the British royal family.
Charming.
First published in 1950, it is the story of Marion Crawford, who was the nanny to Queen Elizabeth II and her sister Princess Margaret.
It begins in 1932 when Marion, called Crawfie by Princess Elizabeth, joined the royal household of the, then, Duke and Duchess of York.
She stayed with the royal family until the time of Prince Charles' birth in 1948.The story is tender and revealing.
Plunged into the roles of King and Queen, the royals relied on Crawfie to help raise their daughters while maintaining their family life as best they could.Crawfie's affection for the family, but especially for Princess Elizabeth, or Lilibet as she is referred to, is strong.
This was quite an interesting read, written by the governess of Princesses Elizabeth and Margaret.
She stayed with the family until Elizabeth's marriage to Prince Phillip, including 5 years at Windsor Castle during World War I when the King and Queen resided at Buckingham Palace.
The Little Princesses is an interesting account of the private side of Elizabeth, Margaret and their parents.
I was also fascinated to read about the love match between Elizabeth and Prince Philip of Greece, and how her parents thought him not the most suitable choice for the Heir to the Throne, but how they finally gave way due to her strong feelings for him.
