https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/227651.Among_the_Hidden
I am adding this book as a warning.
The first book and a half are very interesting and the plot is fascinating.
DO NOT LET YOUR CHILDREN READ THESE BOOKS!!
Somewhere in the second book, it begins to get quite violent.
By the fourth or fifth book, there is holocaust-type violence, children killing in cold blood, and outrageous examples of treachery and hate.
These books are dangerous, as the first one is so good.
Please use caution when you give your children books to read.
I learned the hard way to read all of a series before you recommend them whole-heartedly to a child.
I love this book! Iwould recomend it for anybody who has a craving for excitment and adventure. I also love the use of words, and the excitment. I cannot stop reading the book. Margaret Peterson Haddix is a tallented auther and has AMAZING creativity with books and words. Any book that she writes is or will be wonderfull.
China already has strict population control laws (one child) with heavy fines for violators.However the author simplifies the issue to a simple black and white set of extremes.
What are realistic ways we can address this population issue?The author also appears to be showing how fascist and evil the government is by showing how they outlawed junk food and even meat.
Other award-winning children's books that either deal with confusing, heavy issues, or take place in other mystifying eras, have afterwards for more information.
As it is, I am curious to know what children reading this book come away with thinking: Is overpopulation bad?
I'm reading this book to my students and they love it, but I found it to be very boring. I'm not sure how others feel but nothing happens in this book, especially the first half. I read through the first half of the book super bored.
Fourth Read:September 24, 2018 - November 8, 20184 StarsI read this with my grade 6 class. I had some students really get into the story. Third Read: February 16, 2018 - February 26, 2018 4 StarsI read this with my grade 6 class. They loved it. Second Read: January 12, 2018 - January 26, 20184 StarsI read this with one of my grade 6 classes. They loved it. First Read: In elementary school 3 Stars
After reading this, I am very surprised that the publishers determined the targeted reading age group to be "Age 8-12". It's a bit like Brave New World for YA. (See that bold print in the back that says: "an ALA Best Book for Young Adults".)
This book is about a boy that is living I think that in the future, because of the Law that is happening in the book.
The law of this book is that the families cant have more than 2 childs.
While Luke was wondering by the window of his room he saw a face on the window from the "Barons" the family beside their house, the girl was called Jenniffer and she was also a third child.
Also there are more books that follow upon this one that I WILL read them.
Aww, memories! I remember reading this when I was nine or ten. It was fun to revisit the world, though I'm not sure if I'll reread the other 12 or so in the series. Though I do want to know what happens... Hm, we'll see.
But wait...was that a face in the window of the Sport's family's house?
In a way, some people I know are like Luke...sitting around letting the world be changed for them.
If I were Luke, I would try to change the world.
He breaks into the Sports family's house, and finds Jen, another "shadow child," as she puts it.
Jen and Luke become fast friends, but in April before Jen's rally, Luke turns down her offer.
Jen wants to rally in front of the White House, to protest the population law.
Will Luke change the world like he promised to Jen's spirit?
The people are only allowed to have 2 children so anything after 2 they hide them.
This is a story about a boy that has been hidden his entire life and find out that there are other hidden children out there as well.
The reason I read it was because a friend of mine asked me about it.
Her 11 year-old son read it and he was upset and sad about some things in the book.
She was kind of shocked and upset that he read such a book.
So I honestly cannot say if I think it is appropriate for 11 year-olds.
Wow! I can't wait to read the rest of the series. Luke is a "third" child in a society that inforces population control. Families are allowed only two children. He is loved but lead a very solitary life. He meets another "third" child, Jen, and they form a friendship. Jen is the leader of a group of thirds and she's trying to change the laws so they no longer have to hide. Very inspiring, tender and quite a cliff hanger!
i love this book. read others in the series to continue the adventure.
Here's why: Haddix creates a charming, star-crossed protagonist living in a dystopian society as a Shadow Child.
Luke is the third child to a strapped farming couple living on the edge of civilization.
For most of his life, Luke's had the run of the back forty, but when a new housing development bring wealthy homes to their neck of the woods, Luke is forced to stay in the attic.
He may never go outside again.Luke watches the new neighborhood from his secret attic lookout.
Without his parents' knowledge, Luke sneaks over to the new neighborhood and meets another shadow child--a girl!
4.5 stars. This story was so good, I read it in one sitting. If only I had the sequel, I would be reading it already. Really, that's how much I enjoyed it. It's very well told, the setting is believable and cruel, and... Well, there're lots of great things to say about it, instead I'll just recommend you read it.
I LOVE THIS BOOK! I read it last year in two days. The ending made me cry and wanting more. I love the series and want to maybe want to reread the series again!
This book is GREAT so far! Wonderful recommendation by one of my fabulous students. Can't wait to discuss it in book club :)
AwEsOMe!!!!
This book was a good start to a series, but it felt like a non-ending or an obvious sequel set up.
Even in a young adult series each book should be able to stand alone in terms of satisfying the reader that the story is over, this one didn't really do that for me.
The different mentalities about the government was an interesting aspect and showing the characters personality by how they see the government was a good way to get insight into the characters quickly.
"Among the hidden” written by Margaret Peterson is a book where you are able to feel all of these emotions at once and lose your self.
I’m not able to relate to the book but I’m able to relate to the emotions of the main character, Luke.
I am able to relate to his emotions because I have felt what he is feeling.
Right now I am reading the 7th book and I am loving it.
This book is the best book I have ever read and even the title catches my eye.
To end, this book is a book everyone should read.
When childhood memories, bring you back you know it is a good book. Lots of mystery, drama, and sprinkles of actions. So great. I loved it and am constantly recommending it to my younger siblings.
The dystopian society in Among the Hidden is a frightening idea, but reading about the main character's adventures is worthwhile. :)
We start out by meeting our main character, Luke Garner, a twelve-year-old shadow child (a third child born to a family) who must stay hidden at all times.
Luke stays in his family's attic day in and day out until his new neighbors move in, and he realizes that maybe there are more children like him out there.So, let's get to our characters (this isn't going to take long because there weren't many).
I know it's completely understandable, since the author wants to you really feel what it's like in the life of a third child who has to remain hidden all the time, but it really dragged.
4.6/5Yorumu için: http://kronikokur.blogspot.com.tr/201...
A. The thing I like about the book is that Luke’s family lived on a farm and they were not rich. And if they were rich they would keep on bribing people and that would make the book boring. B. The things I did not like are how Jen went to the rally and the government did that very cruel thing to the kids.C. 1. The characters in the story were Luke, Mathew and mark (Luke’s brothers) Jen Luke’s best friend, Luke’s mom and dad, and Jen’s dad. 2. The most important scene of the book was when Luke di
The setting of this book is Luke house and Jen house, it was also in the U.S.A were the government controls the kids.
The government killed third children and Hitler killed the Jews in World War II.E. I think the special reason someone will want to read this book is if they have a third child or are a third child because then the book will show them what could happen if they had them in a time when government controlled kids.F. This book does have a sequel.
I think this is a good book to read.
Among the Hidden is the first book of hers I have read.
It’s not much of a life until he meets another shadow child.My WIP (work in progress) also has restrictions on child bearing due to overpopulation, like Among the Hidden.
They are short books (this one was 153 pages), so for a reading enthusiast like me, it’s almost a short story.
The PG rating is based purely on the somewhat mature content/premise of the book.Social Issues:Based on China’s One Child policy (I assume), Among the Hidden explores government sanctions and the price of disobeying them.
Children being hidden away because the alternative is death.
The word hidden in the title has a lot to do with what occurs in the book, actually the book revolves around the word hidden.A strength in the book that I noticed was how the author put in events that where in the characters past to help give a glimpse of the character.
She wrote in the third person when she talked about Luke daydreamingSomething that people might be asking is, if the main characters are believable?
The main characters are believable, because Luke is a person who is willing to take a risk to find out something.
What I like about this book:• It’s a captivating book; you just want to keep reading it.• The book is very suspenseful; you don’t know what’s going to happen next.For example, it was captivating because you didn’t know what he was going to do he was somewhat indecisive. Another example was that you didn’t know what was going to happen next, so many things happened that you didn’t think we’re going to happen.One thing I didn’t like about the book is that the ending is bittersweet.Characters: Luke
What I like about this book:•	It’s a captivating book; you just want to keep reading it.•	The book is very suspenseful; you don’t know what’s going to happen next.For example, it was captivating because you didn’t know what he was going to do he was somewhat indecisive.
12-year old Luke is a third child in a society where two is the limit; however, he notices signs of life in a deserted home and ventures out against all rules to find another hidden third child, Jen. Jen is bold and wants freedom for all, trying to enlist others similarly situated in a massive protest. Luke is too scared to go along and then has to face the dire consequences of his inaction. While this is a decent adventure of sorts, with compelling social issues, I think Haddix has unnessarily dumbed her writing down. Six more to read.
1. Twisty and extremely gripping plot line that kept me up until about midnight. 2. But I didn't really like any of the characters all that much? That's the main reason this one's getting three stars.3. 99% clean, I think there was maybe one comment that was mostly benign anyways 4. But it does address issues like population control, so I probably wouldn't give this to a younger reader. So I may or may not finish this series, we shall see. :)
I really liked this book, especially because it didn't have a happy ending in the least.
