https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/181972.The_Chequer_Board
'Tis all a Chequer-board of Nights and Days Where Destiny with Men for Pieces plays: Hither and thither moves, and mates, and slays, And one by one back in the Closet lays.  Omar Khayyam - RubayatWhat would you do if you were told all of a sudden that you have only one year left to live? For many years I thought that Akira Kurosawa has given the best answer with his movie "Ikiru". Turns out he has a challenger, at least by my reckoning, in this slim novel published five years before the Japane
Years after the war, Jackie's wound starts to give him trouble, and when the doctor gives him the bad news, Jackie's first thought is for his cantankerous wife, and his second for the men that treated him well in his hour of need.
Through the quest of Jackie Turner to atone for his past indifference, we will learn the stories of each of the other three men that shared his hospital room in the war, and of how they dealt with the troubles they had at the time.Morgan, the surviving pilot of the plane and the only one of them not under arrest, was unhapily married to a beautiful actress of loose morals and expensive habits.
I LOVE NEVIL SHUTE
The more books by Nevil Shute that I read, the more I come to recognize that he is one of the best story-tellers ever.
Turner was injured during the war, while on a flight from Africa to England to be tried for black marketeering.
These four survive the attack by German fighters.After the war, Turner is now being treated for the effects caused by his injuries (pieces of shrapnel still lodged in his brain).
Shute has such a knack for addressing these emotional touches, that you probably don't realize how much you have found yourself becoming involved in the sub-stories, until the end.
A lovely little book on how life deals with 4 down-on-luck young men who were together in a hospital. Brings your faith back on humanity and second chances. This is my first book by Nevil Shute. He has a very pleasing way of writing and the story moves forward smoothly. The characters are well drawn and they pull you in.
I have read quite a bit of Nevil Shute in the last few years, in part because the stories are very enjoyable, and in part because his characters have a romantic and very attractive quality about them.
Others might find the story romantic to the point of sounding like a Pollyanna, until you recall that it was written in the late 1940's.
Apparently it did not, which in itself would be an interesting story.I highly recommend this book, and wish it were among the canon for Black History Month.
Warning....if you are uncomfortable with seeing the N-word in print, then you might struggle at times with this book.
But it's only ever used to reveal prejudice and 1940s racial attitudes in America.
Based on 4 disparate servicemen who end up in the same ward of a Cornish hospital, Chequer Board (2 of the characters play draughts, or chequers, in an allegorical reference to the book's inter-racial themes) tells their stories and that of several other minor characters during and after WW2.
At times I felt this seemed a radical and untypical work for an author who came from a background of wealth and privilege.......or are my own prejudices showing?
Each of the men has a story and our ex-Army officer becomes the main character as he seeks to track down the other three and he has a very good reason to do so.
One of the men now lives in Burma and our officer becomes rash enough to decide to fly there by flying-boat and see if he can locate him.
The man in Burma in his turn becomes the first person and we become involved with his life.
Our ex-officer returns to the UK and we then have two further characters and their first-person stories.
It seems that every book I read by this author is better than the ones before.
So far I have never been disappointed and plan to listen to all that are recorded as audiobooks.
Perhaps, if I can ever find time to sit down and actually read a print book, I'll delve into even those that are not.
I am always sorry when I finish a Nevil Shute novel even though I compulsively listen as often and as long as I can which causes me to leave these wonderful characters sooner than I would like.
A brilliant read.
Loved every bit of it.
I still treasure my memories of A Town Like Alice which I read back in my teens.
That and the blurb prompted me to BR this.
I read it in paperback with a beautiful red cover which added to the pleasure.The storyline is simple.
A man who is given only a few more months to live by his doctors goes in search of some comrades who had shared bad times with him.
I thought that the Burmese woman had traces of the heroine in A Town Like Alice.
It also explores the deepseated changes in people whose lives have been radically transformed by their personal experience of war.The principal character, Jack Turner, is, as in the later book, a man of undistinguished origins and little education, who has found himself promoted through the fortunes of war to a responsible British Army officer's rank, only to find himself on the wrong side of the law when a dishonest moneymaking scheme - the latest of several, we are given to believe - is discovered and he is disgraced and sent home from his overseas posting for trial.
Description: John Turner, a young man with a checkered past, has been told he has just one year to live.
He decides to use his remaining time in search of three very different men he met in the hospital during the war, each of them in trouble of some kind: a pilot whose wife had betrayed him, a young corporal charged with killing a civilian in a brawl, and a black G.I. wrongly accused of the attempted rape of a white English girl.
As Turner discovers where these men have landed on the checkerboard of life, he learns about compassion, tolerance, and second chances, and overcomes his fear of death.
Absolutely brilliant tale of a man with little time left going to see if his companions in a sordid wartime episode need any help and getting surprised by what he finds... Mr Shute has spun a rivetting, heart-warming tale of attitudes, overcoming fears of morbidity, second chances and attempts at redemption for even a less than stellar character, which brings to fore some unforgettable glimpses of war and its effects - while his handling of race relations (considering the book was written in 1947) were most enlightened.... Very readable and memorable...
A man dying from a head wound received in the war decides to spend his last months tracking down the three men who were in hospital with him after he received it. That's the starting point, but this is a novel about race, relationships, and the wider world outside England. A very important book for 1947, when it was first published; just as much so in the Sixties of the edition I read, and indeed today.
Learning that he only has a year to live, John Turner sets out on a quest to find three men that he met in a hospital during the war. Along the way he learns of compassion, tolerance, and second chances.
Loved this!
Exploring the ties that bind between men and women of all cultures and stations, Shute finds a way to tackle heavy sociopolitical topics (in 1947) in a way that had to be somewhat revolutionary in the literary sense. Interracial marriage, racial equality, social justice, religion, death, life, and fairness are all explored in an endearing manner that makes this read yet another in his long cadre of poignant works.
The shrapnel from a World War II wound had been in John Turner’s head for years, but now it was beginning to give him blackouts.
The doctor said it was inoperable, and that he probably had only a few months to live.
With the time he had left, he decided to track down three other soldiers who had been in the hospital with him to see how their lives had turned out – each had been in some kind of trouble when Turner first knew them.
The other two were English although one had gone to Burma to live.
Their stories changed many preconceived notions for Turner.
Very slowly, in some cases very painfully, but change can happen." It's an acknowledgement that the world moves on, that everything you've been taught can in fact be wrong, and the protagonist (who is dying) can find the strength to change his ways of thinking a bit even knowing that this changing world isn't going to be one he inhabits.Please note that, as a book that deals with racism against Indonesians/Indians, Japanese, and African-Americans and was written by a white dude in 1947, there is a lot of horrible language, casual slurs, and turns of phrase repellent to a modern reader.
Shute is best known for On The Beach, a book many people hate because it begins with the understanding that all of the characters you're getting to know and understand are doomed to death quite soon.
Shute wasn't afraid to write plainly about the personal process of dying, and you know what else he wasn't afraid of writing about, in 1945-6?
There aren't many more Shute stories for me to read before I run out, but I'll probably start re-reading them all over again once that happens.
Another great human story.The stories have enough action and technology to engage me, but the characters are far and away the best part of the stories. Real people with flaws but such basic goodness of spirit despite life’s setbacks.
It seems that Jackie Turner is having medical problems.
The fourth was an American, Dave Lesurier, who was African American and was charged by his southern, white officers with rape, because he was "walking out" with a white, British woman, Grace Trefussis.
So, when Jackie is told that he likely has only a year to live, he decides to go on an investigating tour to see what happened to his mates from the prison hospital.
Morgan had been shot down in Burma and eventually took up residence there and married a Burmese woman.
Dave Lesurier stayed on in Cornwall and eventually married Grace Trefussis, the woman he was accused of having raped.
Now I want to get my hands on “In the Wet” which I know us available in my local library and then maybe try a few others.Several of his books have been filmed, I remember watching “On the Beach” and of course “A Town like Alice” but this one, The Chequer Board, although somewhat dated, has much to say about the inherent humanity of many folks and in our modern, multi-national society, might indicate a few thoughts about racial harmony and disharmony that are worth thinking about.
Nevil Shute is one of the best story tellers ever.
I reread his books regularly.
This one follows four men who meet in a hospital ward in England during WWII.
They all are in some kind of trouble.
An interesting facet of this book is the racial one -- Negro American GIs come to a small town in Cornwall and one man ends up in Burma married to a native woman.
Although some of the language is old-fashioned, Shute was definitely ahead of his time in thinking about interracial marriage.
Reading a Nevil Shute book never leaves me disappointed. The story may be a little tedious at times but it is easy reading and the substance of the story is always timeless and significant. Good character and common sense a always prevail in Shute's novels and I will be very sad when I have read the last of them.
An absolutely fascinating story. Can't believe I've had it sitting around forever and never read it.It follows four men from a hospital ward during the war, and their subsequent reunion many years later. Reminds me why I've always enjoyed Nevil Shute's books so much.
I really enjoy his writing.
Picked up because it was mentioned in discussion of treatment of black American troops in England during WWII. That is just part of the story. Really enjoyed overall.
I really enjoyed this book. Neville Shute is such a gifted writer/storyteller! His characters come alive and his stories always speak to the heart.
Very interesting.
Powerful message about what's important in life. Shute never disappoints.
