https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25251757-you-will-know-me
"So many things you never think you'll do until you do them.” 4 1/2 stars. I'm just going to say it: Megan Abbott is one of my favourite authors. I've read three of her books and I've loved three of her books. I get it - her writing isn't for everyone; but it's for me. Holy shit, is it for me.It's hard to explain. Abbott writes about quiet people politics and the small details that all add up to something bigger. Suspense hums beneath the surface, turning the most mundane events into something
Abbott writes about quiet people politics and the small details that all add up to something bigger.
She narrates real life and still keeps you on the edge of your seat.You Will Know Me is a murder mystery, and yet it is mostly about a family that revolves around its anchor - a gymnastics prodigy called Devon.
You Will Know Me is an adult book about a murder, but once again Abbott demonstrates where she really shines: in portraying that nasty, psychotic little world of teenage girls.
In fact, the more I read, the more I come to think that’s always the case.
I was so blown away by that one that I couldn’t wait to pick up Dare Me; I’m not sure if it was just me or the book, but I was so disappointed in myself for not loving it.
Needless to say, I was a teensy bit afraid of picking up You Will Know Me. What if I continued to be in the minority that wasn’t blown away by every book she wrote?
most of katie and eric's time is spent taking devon to practice or competitions, reviewing the footage of her performances, and fundraising for the never-ending stream of registration fees, gym dues, costumes, coaching, travel expenses, etc, while their house and car slowly fall apart around them.like the cheerleading in Dare Me, gymnastics is a perfect microcosm for abbott to eviscerate with her skillful picking apart of girl-culture and relationships.
Katie and Eric Knox know no bounds when it comes to their extra-special gymnast daughter, Devon. Every thing goes to Devon and her amazing talent. That extra mortgage? No biggie. Smoozing with the richie bitch down the street. Par for the course.  Devon is a star. That's all that matters. Then for Devon herself. This young girl is a frigging robot. She is about to turn sixteen and knows that the worst thing ever is about to happen. She is about to get some boobs and curves. This is her last shot
Katie and Eric Knox know no bounds when it comes to their extra-special gymnast daughter, Devon.
Every thing goes to Devon and her amazing talent.
Then for Devon herself.
She is about to turn sixteen and knows that the worst thing ever is about to happen.
This girl just comes across to me as a freaking robot.
That my silly 'read too many of these type books' self figured out.
From my personal viewpoint I knew that this was a glimpse into a life that I just can't imagine, because I just don't know if I have enough of that pageant mom mentality.
No on writes about the intersections between teenage girls, ambition, bodies, and obsession better than Megan Abbott. Her voice is distinct throughout this novel. Tight, taut, tense, terrifying. You Will Know Me is both a portrait of a family who put their talented gymnast daughter at the center of their world, and how ambition is the thing that holds them together and tears them apart. The words in this novel are like weapons and Abbott wields them very well.
Should the Knoxes have dedicated so much of themselves towards a single goal of one child, or does a parent of a kid with an extraordinary talent have a responsibility to do anything to see it fulfilled?This might be the best book that Megan Abbott has done, and it’s because of the way that she weaves all that together in a story that is crime story, family drama, and reflections on the real cost of the pursuit of excellence in almost any endeavor.
I started this book at the perfect time, often turning the pages as my daughter sat watching Olympic gymnastics.
I'm also quietly thankful that sports are recreational for my children.
I understand that there are those children who are single-minded when it comes to their sport of choice.
This book seems to provide believable insight into the world of elite athletic competition.
I found the story arc difficult to buy into because I needed more insight into the thoughts feelings of two extremely important characters.
3.5 stars "Never again," she told herself. "I won’t be that mom. She needs someplace to be herself. To be messy and sad and human. Real."To be whatever she was becoming. Here’s a tense thriller that is more about the journey than the actual mystery. It’s more about the intricacies of the Knox family and the way their world revolves around competitive gymnastics. Told from the mother Katie’s perspective, there’s the recurring theme of parenthood and what it’s like to watch your child grow pulling
It’s more about the intricacies of the Knox family and the way their world revolves around competitive gymnastics.
Some very powerful, great lines by  Megan Abbott.Katie and Eric Knox are the parents of fifteen year old Devon.
There are some excellent lines on competition, the complexities of all that pressure on a young girl, and being a parent in that intense world.
I was intrigued by the mystery of who killed the boy and why, but that was so much more in the background compared to the real meat of this book.
After about 30- years of distant from the sport -- I came to more balance thinking -- and actually acknowledged the hard work I 'did' do.
I was able to finally realized that - in my case - gymnastics was 'all' I had ....(the team and family experience was stronger than at home)...I was finally able to stop being angry at myself - and love that kid who found 'something' when home life was pretty empty.
As for the mystery- pretty predictable....but...The storytelling flows .....and....The strength is the dynamics between the family's story ( messages to pull from them) -and the inside world of competitive gymnastics.
Katie and Eric Knox will do anything for their gymnast prodigy Devon.
When the boyfriend of one of her gymnastic instructors die, will Katie be able to keep their idyllic life from disintegrating around them?Here we are, another Megan Abbott book and another series of cold knives in my heart.
At first glance, I thought this might be similar to Dare Me, Megan's book about cheerleaders.
You Will Know Me is about the parents of star gymnasts and the crazy shit they do for their kids.From the first page, I knew I'd wolf this down like it was a brisket sandwich.
I'd rate this 3.5 stars.While the so-called "mystery" part of this book held about as much suspense as whether Ryan Lochte and his swimming compatriots were actually robbed at gunpoint in Rio,  You Will Know Me  further cemented Megan Abbott's talent as one of the best creators of mean girls (and adults, for that matter) that is currently writing."And so gymnastics became the center, the mighty spine of everything for them."Katie and Eric Knox have given nearly everything in pursuit of their dau
But as she gets to see the full scope of Devon's ambitions, and all that people will do to ensure their star reaches the heights they believe she is destined for, Katie doesn't know whether to be repulsed or to root for her daughter with all of her might.Especially in the midst of the 2016 Olympic Games, this book was definitely intriguing, and it's probably a lot more realistic than it might seem at first glance.
At the center of the book is the Knox family: Eric, the father; Katie, the mother; Drew, the younger brother; and Devon, the child prodigy who becomes practically the family's sole reason for existence.The Knox family is stuck somewhere in the lower reaches of the middle classes, essentially because they have pinned all their hopes on making their daughter a champion.
They buy into a years-long dream, starting when Devon is a tiny child, aimed at ultimately making her an Olympic star, even though they barely dare to mention this ultimate dream out loud.
(2.5) Not memorable. Wouldn't recommend.
Competitive edge, the pressure to be perfect, and far too much importance attached to a performance. For fifteen year old Devon Knox, perfection in gymnastics is all she has ever wanted. Her parents are willing to do anything to help her achieve it. They may have doubts about a lot of things, but not about Devon's absolute talent. A suspicious death occurs shortly before a major competition, and the fallout from the resultant collateral damage will leave no one untouched.
I have long been fascinated by the world of elite gymnasts, one of my favorite things to watch in the Olympics.
The storyline involves around this rarified world, and the mystery, who was behind the wheel of the hit and run is seamlessly blended into the lives of these gymnasts.
the story itself is not why I gave this four stars.
I gave this rating because I felt the author did a fantastic job portraying this singular world and those involved in it.
So all in all an interesting story but a fantastic job taking the reader behind the scenes so to speak.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/You Will Know Me is the story of this . . . .  The person on the track???? Fifteen year old Devon . . . .  The people who are going to get her there????? And . . . .  All of the parties have the same end goal – Olympic gold . . . and nothing will stop them.I’m going to go against the grain just a weeeeeeee bit and only give this 4 Stars. Truthfully if I hadn’t read this during the day followed by watching the U.S. women gymnastic team
I’m going to blame this on The End of Everything (and now I’m thinking maybe I shouldn’t have been so stingy and doled out a full 5 to that one).
I would have ended up reading You Will Know Me no matter what, because the Abbott Kool-Aid is one of my favorite blends, but Dan gets the official shout-out for getting my rear on both the ARC request list and the library waiting list.
If you read a lot of mystery/thrillers there’s a good chance you may know where the story is going pretty much immediately - but boy is the getting there fun.
Reading this book is like watching a great gymnastics performance -- it's powerful, it goes by super fast, and you can't take your eyes from it.In You Will Know Me we meet the Knox family: Parents Katie and Eric, daughter Devon, and son Drew.
In the tradition of modern thrillers, she isn't a reliable narrator and her memory and perspective can't always be trusted.I said this book goes by super fast, and I read it in two sittings.
How many thousands of things do we avoid telling each other?This was my first Megan Abbott thriller, and based on fellow Goodreads reviews, I need to look up her other books.
Oh my god a thriller with gymnastics?? Was this book written with me in mind?Update 10/23/16: probably a 2.5/5 In general just predictable with super dull characters. For a book so tailored to my interests, this failed on a lot of levels.
In short, You Will Know Me is the story of a family whose lives center around one daughter's success in gymnastics.
What stands out to me about this book though is not the thriller or mystery aspects, but instead how it portrays the many differing aspects of humans and family lives.
Anything negative that I feel about this book is because I felt like it went above and beyond in areas where it didn't matter while skimping on details in the areas where I wanted to know more.
She hadn't learned, no one had taught her—Katie and Eric hadn't taught her—that the things you want, you never get them. And if you do they're not what you thought they'd be. But you'd still do anything to keep them. Because you wanted them for so long. Megan Abbott's perfect writing style and fantastic characters blend with a creepy storyline to form a near-perfect suspense book. You Will Know Me has an interesting, if somewhat overdone, premise. Katie and Eric's daughter, Devon, a talented gy
She hadn't learned, no one had taught her—Katie and Eric hadn't taught her—that the things you want, you never get them.
Megan Abbott's perfect writing style and fantastic characters blend with a creepy storyline to form a near-perfect suspense book.
Katie and Eric's daughter, Devon, a talented gymnastics star.
Their gymnastics studio is in perfect balance...
You Will Know Me blends together several interesting concepts at once into a tightly plotted murder mystery.
The plotting is very slow-burn.
At times the book might be too slow for some readers.
As always, Abbott's writing style and atmosphere is perfect for the story.
And yet we cling to them, don’t we, we clasp them until the blood flows.”  ----Joanne HarrisMegan Abbott, the Edgar®-winning author, pens yet another heart-stopping thriller, You Will Know Me, which is yet to publish in the month of July of year 2016, that unfolds the story of a mother with a child prodigy, and this is a mother's tale of how and at what extent she can go to protect her daughter and her husband thereby rescuing her whole family all just in the name of fame and celibacy and Olympic dreams of her daughter that will not only take her whole family under spot light but the whole town, especially the coaching center which came to fame under her daughter's name.Synopsis: Katie and Eric Knox have dedicated their lives to their fifteen-year-old daughter Devon, a gymnastics prodigy and Olympic hopeful.
A Megan Abbott novel is more than just a book.
Or that perhaps something awful has happened already and you don't know about it yet.I've read almost every Megan Abbott book and I have yet to read one I didn't like.
You can feel it, that something is a little bit wrong.
I don't know how she does it, and I wish she would tell me.You Will Know Me continues Abbott's incredible streak of books about the darkness within families, and specifically within teenage girls.
It's that kind of family that makes you wonder how they work and what it must be like.
You Will Know Me by Megan Abbott was a thriller about trying to succeed in the competitive sport of Gymnastics. I found this book hard to read as the characters were so unlikeable. I was amazed at the pressure put on these children to get to the top of their field. I would like to thank NetGalley and Pan Macmillan for my e-copy in exchange for an honest review.
As the novel progresses, Katie learns more and more about the devastating price of ambition, how it can twist and distort almost anyone, even her own daughter.I loved the intensity of Abbott's writing in You Will Know Me. Every word felt so precise, so lethal, like she designed every sentence to showcase the desperation in the Knox family and the several rude awakenings Katie encounters.
When I closed this book, I felt satisfied by the thrill of it, but I expected a more in-depth, layered exploration of ambition and how it can ruin young girls, how it can scar both their bodies and minds if enforced in unhealthful ways.Overall, I would recommend You Will Know Me to anyone who wants a well-written thriller featuring a mother-daughter relationship that goes awry.
Although Katie is not the same at first, she realizes that her family is united simply by Devon and that without her and the gymnastics they would not have anything.✨✨✨Cualquiera pensaría que este libro solo se trata de todo lo que la familia Knox tiene que hacer para lograr que su hija gimnasta prodigio Devon califique elite, sin embargo, también trata de una muerte que podría ser un asesinato y todo gira a su alrededor.
Por el contrario, esto es lo mejor que tiene el libro y quieres llegar hasta el final.El libro está narrado mayormente por Katie, la madre de Devon, quien trabaja desde la casa para poder cuidar a Drew y transportar a Devon a sus prácticas.
Oh the Masterful Tangled Web She Weaved!In this mystery thriller, Megan Abbott describes the life of a gymnastics family of four, who will do whatever it takes to help their daughter Devon achieve greatness, and hopefully, a spot in the Olympics.
Coach Teddy will do whatever he can for his niece Hailey, as will Katie and Eric Knox, for Devon.
If you’re looking to read a great thriller, that contains fascinating characters, this book is for you.
I can't say that I loved it, but I did enjoy reading it.I felt like the proverbial fly on the wall, getting a chance to be a voyeur into the inner workings of the life of a young gymnast being groomed to be the next gold medalist.I think the clever piece that made this more appealing to me was that the story was told from the Mother's point of view.
Gossip and speculations abound...I didn't find too many surprises with this part of the story line, but I did like the extra dimension it added to the plot.While nothing close to a 5 star read, I will certainly keep a look out for additional works from this author.My thanks to NetGalley for the ARC in exchange for an honest review.
Katie and Eric live a middle class existence, but they are in deep debt, paying for all of Devon’s training, and gymnastic needs, while their son Drew lives in his sister’s dark, lonely, and cold shadow, practically ignored by his family, but seeing far more than the adults give him credit for.
Because the Knox family has no friends outside the world of elite gymnast, their parents, and coaches, and because their life is all about Devon, they spend every waking hour they aren’t working or sleeping, at meets and raising money for Devon’s needs.
I do not know you, but you will know me." ~Nadia Comaneci, Letters to a Young GymnastIf, like me, you've lived a life of inexplicable obsession fascination with the world of competitive gymnastics, this latest by the Mighty Megan Abbott is going to rock your world.
You Will Know Me is more focused on the family unit this time, though its teen protagonist -- 15 year old Devon Knox -- certainly plays a major role.
Recently, Abbott wrote an article for Elle in which she attempts to answer: "Why Are We So Obsessed With Gymnasts?" As a companion piece to this book, it's worth checking out.
I am so fortunate to have gotten my hands on an advanced copy of YOU WILL KNOW ME.
Every character in this book is so well realized, and every character in this book is suspect.
THAT is probably the most compelling and frightening aspect of this story—there are no cliché mustache twirling villains here.
You come to understand how and why good people, exceptional people even, can commit horrific acts, because sometimes the ends do justify the means.I wish I could have slowed my roll with this.
I finished it in 24 hours and now I have a wretched book hangover :-(
