https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/424270.The_Hermetic_Tradition
A fascinating and comprehensive primer on Hermetecism, perhaps the Western/Aryan 'Zen' (or better perhaps, Zen is a less dynamic, Oriental 'Hermeticism'). Evola, as always, writes with precision and erudition. Recommended for all interested in the esoteric, and especially those who think the east has a monopoly on detached spirituality and enlightenment.This should probably be read multiple times.
Short of it: the first half was quite good, but the second half was either incoherent or just plain wrong.
It was about developing the soul (or ascending to higher realms).
Using alchemical language, he offers a manual for purifying the soul.In the first half of the book he decodes numerous symbols.
For example, "chaos" simply means the realm of undifferentiated potentiality--prime matter.
"The Tomb," infamous in Plato, notes the body By itself and apart from the animating spirit, it is dead matter, the flux of chaos.
And then comes the second half.
A complex and fascinating masterpiece from a master of the western tradition. If you're hoping to find a detailed manual for self initiation you will be disappointed, a crystal clear exposition and a philological approach to an immense body of sources sheds no light on the processes of western hermetic tradition, yet it's by far one of the best books about it. To be read at least twice.
Tradition and symbolism, Jung and lot of links with past..Interesting and provoking..
The best introduction to alchemy available in English. Don't expect to understand it for a while.
Maybe the best of Evola. Few entirely unfounded historical aberrations, but a wealth of symbols, presented in an interesting, thought-provoking manner based on surprinsingly rich sourcematerial. The "practical" (although quite theoretical) second half is weaker, more rambling. You can see traces of his later "absolute individual" already, so tread carefully (since this is not the goal of alchemy, at least not in the sense he means it), but the exposition throughout the first part is priceless.
It's terse, it's dense, perhaps the translation could have been a bit simpler, but wow, what a unique perspective on the Royal Art and Western Esoterica. While most of the material on Alchemy and Hermetism is filtered through the eyes of Anglo-Britain, Evola gives the Southern European. Latinized perspective if I may be so bold. Be aware this is not a book on laboratory praxis, although it can inspire the lab alchemist, Evola instead encompasses the 'bigger picture' for the gentle reader, and indeed all roads lead to the Soul.
A fascinating, although still obscure and infinitely unpackable look at Hermetico-Alchemical thought as a metaphysical system. The book invites multiple readings as the early crash course in Alchemical symbolism only really begins to do work later, and so a lot of revisiting is required to fully appreciate the explanations given earlier in the book as well as the usage of the symbols later in the work.
Creo que es el libro más complicado que he leído hasta ahora. Estoy seguro de que volveré a él más de una vez en mi vida.
Fairly dense, but fascinating and worth studying.
I was looking for something Hermetic, while this was fully Alchemical.
As usual in Julius Evola books, an excellent treatise on alchemy and hermeticism, a book which I strongly advise anyone interested in the subject
