https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8801.The_Burgess_Bird_Book_for_Children
I read my copy of it so many times I wore out the spine.I dearly loved Jenny Wren, Sweet Voice the Vesper Sparrow, and Longbill the Woodcock, and looked for them everywhere as a child.
But it is nice to be able to make the story more real for The Four-Year-Old by reminding her of the time we spotted Downy the Woodpecker at Moose Hill.My one complaint about this book is that it doesn’t include illustrations of every bird it mentions.
Lovely. A read aloud full of adventure and birding details. We always looked forward to reading.
It was a very nice way to learn about birds.
Love Thorton W. Burgess books. A great living book for natural science studies. We would read the chapter, view images and videos at www.allaboutbirds.org or on YouTube, then color as life like as possible images from Fifty Favorite Birds Dover Coloring Book. The kids and I learned so much which fostered a joy for bird watching.
We really enjoyed this book and learned many amazing things about birds and their habits. We were as curious as Peter was about each and every new bird in the book. We paired this with a color in field guide for visuals of each bird and then listened to each bird's call after each chapter. This was a wonderful read aloud that was enjoyed by all.
So is it wrong to rate this book after reading only 2 chapters?
I leave this on the coffee table and every so often my daughter picks it up, lays it in my lap, and cuddles next to me for the next story in this book.
It is a living book.
You get so caught up in the story you don't even realize your learning so much about birds.
We love this book...krb 2/9/17Haven't read this book in quite a while.
Looking forward to picking it back up again in term 1 of Ambleside when we study birds...krb 8/7/17
Guess I'm revisiting the literature of my childhood this week.This book is NOT the reason I became a bird watcher, although I did read it (or had it read to me) growing up.
Then I saw him a couple of years later after he had for some reason picked up the book, and he apologized and admitted it really is quite accurate.
It would be a good read-aloud bedtime book (that's probably how I was exposed to it, although it was long enough ago that I don't really remember) - the chapters are fairly short and stand-alone.
Thornton W.
Burgess is amazing.
This is the first book I've read and will not be our last.
He has done an excellent job exposing the bird kingdom to us in a way that we will forever be part of us.
He has captured our interest, our imagination, and our desire to appreciate and observe Nature.
He also helped us to understand not only habitat of each bird but behaviors.
Both my children thoroughly enjoyed this book.
Now when we are gazing out our windows, out for a hike, or hear the singing of a bird, we are constantly trying to remember what Peter Rabbit said or what bird we are hearing or seeing.
Well, first of all Thornton W. Burgess has been my all-time favorite author since I was about 7. My Great Aunt gave my dad a copy of Old Mother West Wind and Sammy Jay and I read those 2 over and over. I have slowly been collecting these and now you can actually read the Kindle versions for free on most of the books. Love, love, love this book! Not only does it describe all of these wonderful birds, but you learn which birds migrate and which birds actually prefer snow and cold weather.
This was our first foray into Charlotte Mason-style/living books science, and it was a success. I didn't know before we read this that it does not need to be read straight through as a story, so just an FYI. We read each chapter stopping to look up the birds and listen to their calls, watch YouTube videos, etc. and really enjoyed the experience.
This is a really cute and educational book. Rebecca and I learned so much together and we're both so much more excited about birds. It makes me want to landscape my yard in a more bird friendly way and make bird feeders so we can observe our bird friends more often.
A book that is best read aloud to your children! My great grandma read it to my mother, and my mother read it to me. How could you not love Saucy Jenny Wren?? A beautiful book combining imaginative play for children all the while, instilling a special appreciation for nature.
this is both fiction and nonfiction. the birds speak but the information given is all true. great tool for teaching the kids about these birds.
After reading this book, I look at birds if a whole new way.
OK, I loved this book. It was a little boring for my kids but we read it out on the deck in the sunny springtime and watched for birds we learned about in the book. It is a great memory.
The lives of birds put into story form. It is so much fun and a great way for kids to learn birds.I own a 1919 copy.
A delightful little read that my kids very much enjoyed.
They loved the interactions between Peter Rabbit and the birds that he met during his spring, summer, fall, and winter in the Dear Old Briar Patch.
After meeting each bird, the kids were interested in looking at actual pictures of the birds.
It also sparked an interest in bird watching, an activity that we all enjoy doing together now.
It's amazing how much of nature you fail to see by simply not looking up into the tree tops!A solid four stars for me.
An edition with colored illustrations of every bird (is there one?) would easily bump this up to a five star.
I almost wish the book had gone into less birds with more detail and a bit of repetition, in order to better memorize the information. But, perhaps that's trying to use the book for a purpose it was never meant for. The kids didn't complain, and even my bird-haters are looking up with a bit more interest. So overall a success.
This is a fun book for children to learn about many different types of birds. Peter Rabbit wanders around his neighborhood and talks to the birds and describes them in detail. I just rated this down one star for this edition. It only has black and white photos. The description says they are in full color. I'm assuming that they are in color in the original edition.
I was privileged to have this book given to me as a child. It is very well-written and entirely encompassing. First, it was read to me. Later, I re-read it many times. Must have the experience of and pleasure in, this book!
Beautifully writtenFun, colorful vocabulary painted beautiful pictures of Peter rabbit's world. We grew to know peter rabbit in an even deeper way as he asks questions about so many different bird families.
If children want to learn about birds in a cute and delightful way, this is the book for them. I learned a lot about the different birds and bird groups and I am a bird watcher. I will always enjoy the Mother West Wind series.
Family favorite!
A delightful way to learn about birds and their habits. This book is written in story form and Peter Rabbit goes around visiting all the birds.
Great for young children!
First read to me by my mother before I could read for myself
Peter Rabbit*, with his insatiable curiosity, learns about birds, first as they arrive in the spring, then more as he notices that some do not leave in the fall, then still more as some who summer further north stop by on their way south.
58 birds are illustrated with paintings on 32 full-color plates (B&W in later editions).This book is written from the perspective of the author's home in Massachusetts.
Potter's publisher didn't copyright her book in America, so there were a lot of Peter Rabbits in America in those days, including shameless copies of Potter's book.
First of all, I love how the average rating for this book is 5.81.
This is a book that I read aloud to my kids.
It about different kinds of birds through a story format so the kids don't even know that they are learning different info about how different kinds of birds act, look, eat, etc.
I learned a lot and I've never really been much of a bird watcher, but now I find myself paying more attention to them.
We only read part of the book, but will read more when we get it back from the library.
This is an enjoyable book about Peter Rabbit finding out about the birds around him in the garden. Besides Peter Rabbit, Jenny Wren is an active narrator of facts for Peter. The chapters can sometimes be long but the addition of the book on audio has helped with those chapters. We enjoy looking up the pictures and calls of the birds as we read about them. I see my son making connections from the book to the birds in our yard.
My grandmother gave me this book as a child. She loved to sit in the backyard watching the birds and identifying them - and my sister and I would join her. This book is a great introduction for children to the various birds found in North America. It is done in a story format - and each bird has its own unique personality. The information, however, about their nesting habits, colorations, etc. are on target. Lovely.
