https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4917442-brand-of-the-werewolf
Doc and his five friends must rescue his niece Patricia and her Indian servant Tiny after his brother Alex Savage was killed in the Canadian wilderness.
There is a carved ivory cube that has a hidden map of the galleon inside that Mr. Radish and his people are trying to locate as they want the gold too.
WE discover that Boat Face is not so stupid as portrayed in the story in that he figures out the riddle of the ivory cube, relocates the treasure, all before being killed by Mr. Radish's men.
Patricia Savage looks like Doc, and foreshadows her role in future novels.
Doc Savage vs a werewolf!Yeah, don't get too excited about that part. Good setting, a decent mystery and the first appearance of Doc's cousin, Pat Savage!
Doc Savage and his crew head for Canada for, of all things, a vacation. But on the train ride there, to his uncle's place, strange things happen and, you guessed it -- it's not so much a vacation as another adventure, as they find themselves at odds with a gang of criminals who are in search of a mysterious white cube that they expect will lead them to a lost pirate treasure. This book introduces a new character -- Doc's cousin Patricia.
Doc goes on vacation to foggy western Canada. Lots of Renny's big hands; not much Pat though it's her first appearance. Doc runs atop a train and does a tightrope thing across waterfall. Oh, and there's no werewolf, darn it. I really do prefer the Shadow and Fu-Manchu to these.
I like reading the Doc Savage series, however this was not one of the better stories. The werewolf was not a real part of the story from my point of view. However the story over all was good and made sense. If you like older serial books this a nice read.
This was a pretty good story, among the better ones in the early days.
The adventures of the heroic Doc Savage continue. A little more blood and killing in this one, but the mystery gets solved......did it.....
Another good Doc adventure that I read back in the 70s.
The first Doc Savage story appeared in 1933 and the series ran in pulp and later digest format into 1949.
The characterizations were far richer than was common for the pulps; his five associates and their sometimes-auxiliary, Doc's cousin Pat, and the pets Chemistry and Habeas Corpus, all had very distinctive characteristics and their byplay was frequently more entertaining that the current adventure-of-the-month.
The settings were also fascinating: Doc's Fortress of Solitude, the Hidalgo Trading Company (which served as a front for his armada of vehicles), and especially the mysterious 86th floor headquarters all became familiar haunts to the reader, and the far-flung adventures took the intrepid band to exotic and richly-described locations all over the world.
The Doc Savage books have always been my favorite entertainments...
Pulp lore has it that when Bantam Books reprinted this Doc Savage story in 1965 (fifth in their weird reprint order), it proved to be the best-selling title in the series.
This can only be because of the exciting cover art, because that's the only worthwhile thing about Brand of the Werewolf.This story, first published in January 1934, was the eleventh Doc adventure.
And those drawn in by the cover will be doubly disappointed: there's no actual werewolf in the story, but the Bantam reprint does put a huge (but predictable) spoiler right in the blurb.
January, 1934 found Doc and his pals traveling to Canada on vacation.
Naturally, no one ever lets them get any peace and quiet and they are soon embroiled with two sets of villains playing against each other and Doc to discover hidden treasure.
This story marked the first appearance of Doc's cousin, Patricia, who will be showing up again.
Pat has bronze hair (though more luxurious than Doc's) and striking good looks.
She immediately creates a new rivalry for Monk and Ham, who vie for her attentions throughout the story.
Nicely plotted, great villains and a wide variety of gadgets make for a fun tale to start the year 1934.
A (*ahem!*) deceptive cover on this Bantam reprint, to say the least, but nice Canadian adventure that has the distinction of introducing Doc Savage's beautiful cousin Patricia to the series. The Bantam was, ultimately, the publisher's best-selling Doc book, I understand. Here we have Doc and crew in the Canadian wilderness trying to solve the mystery of an ivory cube, werewolf howls and a Spanish father and his stunning and hot-for-Doc daughter. Quite solidly good but not quite up to its reputation.
This Doc Savage is notable for the introduction of his cousin Pat Savage. The action begins on a train journey and progresses to the Canadian wilderness. Ham and Monk begin a soon to become familiar pattern of mooning over the same girl and telling her lies about each other. Monk's pig Habeas Corpus adds a touch of humor with his antics. Not as good as some others--the mystery is fairly simple--but the train portion is very thrilling.
Of all the pulp era heroes few stand out above the crowd, Doc Savage is one of these. With his 5 aides and cousin he adventures across the world. Fighting weird menaces, master criminals and evil scientists Doc and the Fab 5 never let you down for a great read. These stories have all you need; fast paced action, weird mystery, and some humor as the aides spat with each other. My highest recommendation.
Doc Savage #5 . Spoiler - there is no werewolf. Doc and his men decide to take a vacation and visit his uncle in Canada. Things start going strangely on the train, the authors racial prejudices are visited, escape is made, further travel takes place on foot. We never meet Doc's Uncle, but we meet his Cousin and more racial prejudice from the author. Many ejaculations are made (No!) and in the end there is a treasure found.
By the time I was 25 pages in, I'd made it through a black character written in the stereotypically racist dialect of the time ("Yassuh! Dat's true!"), only to find an American Indian character written the same way ("Him heap big coward."). While I realize it was common at the time, it's a little too out-of-step with today for me to bother continuing reading.
Another fine pulp adventure from the early 30s. This one has always appealed to me in no small part because it introduces one of my favorite characters in the Doc Savage mythos, his cousin Patrica "Pat" Savage.
Other than the debut of Doc's cousin Pat, this is a so-so series entry. It's mostly the kind of Canadian wilderness adventure that was common at the time, but way too mundane to be entertaining. And there's not even a werewolf in the book, or even a fake werewolf!
Good Lord Sean! Where do you find this stuff!!
I read this in ebook. Not terribly good. Shows most of the weaknesses of the Doc Savage series.
In which we meet Doc Savage's niece, Patricia Savage. Great, if misleading, cover art by James Bama.
The very first appearance of PATRICIA SAVAGE, in a somewhat disappointing adventure.Spoiler alert: don't be fooled by covers when it comes to Doc Savage. No werewolves were harmed in this book.
read SOMETIME in 2011
This was a fun book to read... I think I'll read another!!
