https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26603.Tulips_Chimneys
I've had this for ten years and this is the first time I've read it. If only I read this earlier in life . . . The first twenty pages or so are gorgeous, but spent too much time in my head and didn't make it into my guts, while the end, the sonnets, especially those last few, are breathtaking. Literally, I couldn't breathe. Whenever I think I'm pushing the boundaries of the way I use language, I need only to flip open this book for a wallop in the jaws, that says, "nice try, back to the drawing board."
The old cliché "less is more" rings especially true with regards to his experimentation (at least from the approach of reading the collection as a continuous whole, the experiments are without a doubt more palatable when doing individual readings of poems).This is a dense collection and I will continue to visit both the poems I enjoy and the ones that I fail to understand.
After I finished I felt exhausted though satisfied, but I think it's unfair to expect anything else reading a dense collection like this one.
The bottom line is that cummings' poems are extremely enjoyable to re-read since there is always something new to discover.
Reading the poems individually and spending time with them outside of a collective swarm elevates the reading experience entirely.
Whether it is art, philosophy, theology, political theory, or a position on parenting, the easiest response is a critique—objections to an argument’s premises in order to render the entire idea void.And Put It Back TogetherWhile I appreciate critical thinking and its ability to sharpen thought, I am inspired by the people who put a stake in the ground and provide concrete definition for a way of life.The Aims of PoetryAs I have ventured into some poetry recently, I’ve become interested in the ways deconstruction relates to poetry.
Rhyme—the ways in which words relate to each other.Classic poetry, therefore, feels incredibly formal and expected, no matter the quality of the content.Deconstructing PoetryBut does poetry need this structure?
To find an answer to that question, I read Tulips & Chimneys by the father of post-modern poetry, E.
Cummings deconstructs poetry in this work.
your little voice Over the wires came leapingand i felt suddenlydizzy With the jostling and shouting of merry flowerswee skipping high-heeled flamescourtesied before my eyes or twinkling over to my sideLooked upwith impertinently exquisite facesfloating hands were laid upon meI was whirled and tossed into delicious dancingupUpwith the pale important stars and the Humorous moondear girlHow i was crazy how i cried when i heard over timeand tide and deathleapingSweetly your voice
It's like gorging on bright blue pastels, and then gargling vanilla vodka and Pop Rocks, while listening to rhythms of an unintelligible reading of the Iliad. Oh, and he likes to objectify women :(
Cummings's original title was ignored by the publisher, who changed the ampersand to the word "and".
So, my next piece of Cummings will be '& [And]' which collected other of his poems that weren't originally included in Tulips and Chimneys, but later added to Tulips & Chimneys.
I loved this! Cummings has a great sense of ironic humor and a mastery of cadence. Here's my favorite stanza:Humanity i love you because you are perpetually putting the secret oflife in your pants and forgettingit's there and sitting downon it
As a life-long (or middle-school on) e.e. cummings fan, I am always surprised by how much of his poetry I don't really like.
For example, "Epithalamion" is filled with classical references I can't get myself to care about.
BUT, of course, there are the poems filled with poignancy and sheer loveliness.
Cummings' early poetry has themes of love, sex, and death--which, in my opinion, are three of the four main topics of poetry.
There's a little about God, the fourth main topic, but not much.
Both view words (and for cummings, punctuation) as something like paint or clay.
ee cummings is one of my favourite poets.
i love the style of his poems, the games he plays with words and the fact that every time i pick him up the poems are fresh and tripping off the tongue.this book moves from his early poems through the development of his later style, the subtle sexuality blooming and the breaking down of language to recreate it in a whole new pattern.
The poems sit awkward and unbalanced as the words delicately float above some common expectation of alignment.it is a beautiful book.
if you are a big cummings fan, this is a must-have.
"... and you will be the poem i do not write"
"keď človek zachcel s vervou ešte väčšouseba zničiť s celým svetomz bude vzal bolo najdúc však len prečorozmlátil ho hneď na preto" (str85)
Cummings me mostró lo que de verdad se puede hacer con la lengua inglesa.A caballo entre las vanguardias y el modernismo, "Tulips & Chimneys" recoge las primeras incursiones líricas publicadas del enorme poeta norteamericano.
La diferencia entre, por ejemplo, "Epithalamion" y "Chansons Innocentes" (la del extraordinario dominio de la forma y la experimentación más exacerbada) nos dan una muestra del enorme rango que Cummings dominaba incluso al principio de su carrera.
Me hizo recordar ese dicho de Picasso, "cuando tenía siente pintaba como Miguel Ángel"...Cummings ha sido uno de mis más gratos descubrimientos, y espero que en algún momento le sea otorgado su muy merecido lugar en los estanteros de los lectores hispanoparlantes junto con Pound, Williams, Eliot y Yeats (todos justamente traducidos).
There is something brilliant about these poems. They are challenging but simple, simple but require a particular reading. We have been accustomed to read through the codes imposed by grammar whereas language is fluid. Cumming challenges how we read and how we think. Is it that how we learn to read the volatile changes in the yearly seasons?
Although many of his poems are about this he also is buzzing with stories of mischief, discreet observation of people, life and death.
It’s when poems are read aloud their full sounds will come to life.
When art is created with passion in the moment people are probably at their most authentic.
His escapades with women, neighbours reaction to events and life.
Whether you care about form and language doesn't matter, his oddity and authenticity is what makes him so distinct.
I'm a huge fan of EE Cummings and was really excited to finally have the chance to go through a considerable number of his poems in a collection.
His style varied greatly from subcollection to subcollection but there was still a sort of signature rhythm that ran through each poem.
Although I loved most of his work, I found reading his sonnets rather tedious and put the book down multiple times for varying lengths of boredom during these sections.
The rest of the sections made up for it though; I found Chansons Innocentes, La Guerre, Impressions, Portraits, & Post Impressions very interesting.
Favorites:in Just- spring when the world is mudlittle tree little silent Christmas treebut the other day i was passing a certaingoodbye Betty,don't remember meand what were roses. Perfume?for i dothis is the garden:colours come and go,it is at moments after i have dreamedit may not always be so;and i sayif i learned darkness from our searched worldwho's most afraid of death?thoua wind has blown the rain away and blownwhen my love comes to see me it'sthe mind is its own beautiful prisoner.my love is building a building
in the rain-darkness, the sunsetbeing sheathed i sit andthink of you *my mind isa big hunk of irrevocable nothing *a wind has blown the rain away and blownthe sky away and all the leaves away,and the trees stand. I think i too have knownautumn too long(and what have you to say,wind wind wind—did you love somebodyand have you the petal of somewhere in your heartpinched from dumb summer?*the mind is its own beautiful prisoner.
This is not my favorite of his collections, but has some of my favorite poems. In just spring- , Buffalo Bill. I'm reading Cummings' work start to finish again, and it's nice to remember where he began, how it looked at the very front. Also, interesting note from this particular reading: the word 'handorgan' appears twice and the word 'annihilation' three times.
Easily my favorite collection of e.e. cummings poetry (it's also the largest. A correlation? possibly)It contains many poems that lean to a more romantic or sensual nature. There are some a-hemthat are better avoided.Includes favorite of mine:when god lets my body beyour little voice over the wires came leapingSNOit may not always be so;and i say
My roommate suggested this, and had me start with "La Guerre." I feel so alive when I read it, and question why I don't read more poetry. cummings placement of words on the page, their relationship to one another, only heightens the effect of his imagery. These poems hold a beautiful and tangible sense of longing. Perfect for spring, or anyone who's coping with lost love.
It's not easy to get through but I do not mean that in a negative way. For me it was a challenge, being that his language can be tough to decipher. The first section is very intersting and the book does have a flow, at times it seems to be loose. From what I remember, there was a lot about women, heartbreak, relationships of some sort, and some dark themes.
Cummings does not disappoint in his usual subject areas. I have always loved his Seasons, and he hits love and passion in this collection with a dose of grit and crudeness that brought humor into his writing.
Cinder blocks & Poptarts.
Kirk and I both love ee cummings and this book in particular has some lovely lovely poems.
this one is good too, treasures lurking around every corner.
«if i believein death be sureof thisit isbecause you have loved me»
i think i figured out poetry has as much of a backbeat as music does from this man.viva e.e. !
Oh dear...
Damn good, just not as good as "100 Selected Poems."
This is my favorite book of poetry by my favorite poet.
