https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/136206.Helen_Keller
Ann: puts her arm gently round me and spelled into my hand, “I love Helen.”Helen : I spelled back “What is love?” ( Her words puzzled me very much because I did not then understand anything unless I touched it.) I smelled the violets in her hand and asked a question which meant, “Is love the sweetness of flowers?”Ann : “No,” Helen : The warm sun was shining pointing in the direction from which the heat came.I spelled ,“Is this not love?” Ann: puts Helen hands on her cheeks and shakes her head, Helen: I was greatly puzzled and disappointed.
It’s really an interesting story that will hook you to read more and more about this lady.
This lady faced a lot of problems in her life but she succeeded to pass these difficulties.
If you read her story you will see how she succeeded who helped her to face her problems.
Her teacher Annie Sullivan helped her until she became a very famous lady.
She met a lot of famous persons.
We can learn a lot about her life and Helen can teach us that.
It’s a good book to learn new vocabulary.
So we can learn a lot from her life.
Annie took Helen outside to the water pump to let water run on Helen’s hand then spell W-A-T-E-R out on her hand from then on Helen learned many, many words.
Helen was the best educated deaf-blind person in the world at her time and she is an inspiration to all until this day,I really liked this book because it taught me a lot about Helen Keller’s life that I did not know.
I knew she was a blind and deaf person, who lived along time ago and had a teacher named Annie Sullivan but that was it.
Title:Helen KellerAuthor:Margaret DavidsonGenre:BiographyLength:95 pagesDate Finished:October 12, 2012 This book is about Helen Keller, a blind and deaf person who brought hope to many people like her.
Helen got along with Annie and started to learn more.
When Helen came out of college, she and Annie traveled across the country and gave lectures.
I rated this book as four stars because I thinks that it was interesting reading about Helen Keller.
I thought that I knew many things about Helen Keller, but I actually learned many knew things about Helen.
But most of all, this book made me think that Helen Keller was indeed a very amazing person.
It was ok but I thought it should have more to the story about her life. When I was reading it I found myself feeling very inspired by her because of how much perseverance she had. I would look up to her any day as a hero to our world. She found out that she had to keep on trying and never give up. I recommend this book to all people who would like to feel inspired by a hero. It was really good so you should give it a chance and read it.
One of the few short novels I've read. It shows me how different life can be when you're blind or deaf. Loved it.The realism of how life could take us into dramatic stages were shown in this book. It showed how Helen survived in our world with only her touch and smell. The books showed me that the world isn't a perfect place for everyone but that certain group of people could use that disadvantage and help themselves succeed through life's great obstacles.
Helen Keller is a really sad, old book. Is a biography on Helen Keller's tragic life in not been able to speak, see, or hear. In the book illustrates you how, with the commitment and lifelong friendship of Anne Sullivan, she learned to talk, read, and eventually graduate from college with honors. She encourage herself to talk and to do great in life and she actually put all her effort and made it there.
This is a short simplified version of Helen Keller's story. L. is very fascinated by Helen and never gets tired of rereading this, asks questions. The first couple of times through, I edited a little bit, for example there is a section that discusses WWII and Helen visiting soldiers, but in later readings I went ahead and read it as it is.
The book Helen Keller was amazing.She had some disabilities, but that didn't stop her from doing a lot of things.The boom talked about how Helen had many disabilities and about her childhood, but this book really inspires people.It's like if, the book has a special message that it's trying to tell you.I would recommend this book to anyone who likes Helen Keller, or who likes inspiring books.
This book was amazing. Helen Keller is an inspiration. She has disabilities but it didn't stop her. she kept fighting to do what she wanted to. If you like strong persevering girls this is the book for you. I also recommend this book to people who like learning about people who make a diffrence.
She is nothing short of heroic.
A pretty basic book. It was a favorite of mi Eva’s a child and I enjoyed reading it aloud to my daughter.
Perkins Institute finally answered the letter by sending Mrs. Ann Sullivan.
Helen Keller learned at a rapid pace and Mrs. Sullivan was running out of things to teach her.
About that time, Mrs. Sullivan received a letter from her alma mater asking Ann and Helen to make a trip to the school.
Helen Keller was able to do many things that people with their sense of sight and sound could do.
Helen learned many of these things because of the time and work that her teacher put into her.
The story of Helen Keller always intrigued me. My mother was the one who bought me this book when I was young, and I was pleased. The illustrations really helped Young-Me understand further what Ms. Keller was going through.
This book was the first of many books I was exposed to as a child that I would classify as my "sheroic development" biographies.
I read them all between third and sixth grade.These women with special abilities were my childtime heros.
I never considered Helen Keller "disabled" as I didn't consider my own father disabled.
To me, that was a special ability, not a disability.
Helen, to me, was similar.
She was a woman with a special ability to communicate brilliantly and succeed fantastically as a speaker and intellectual.
Wonderful SHEro to have as a child!
I really enjoyed the book Helen Keller by Margaret Davidson.It is a brief overview of Helen Keller's life from the time she was born to the time she died.
Helen was born a normal baby.
Then one day Helen got a very bad fever.
Which later left Helen ill, blind, and death at only 9 months old.
The story later speaks about how Helen's mom got her help from a teacher named Annie Sullivan.
Annie never gave up on Helen and taught her how to read, write, and communicate with others through sign language.
Helen eventually graduated from college with all honors.

Helen Keller is a nonfiction book written by Margaret Davidson.
It's a nonfiction because it's based on a true life story about a girl who is in a quiet dark world.
She's been deaf and blind or whole life and no one understood her until a woman named Anne Sullivan who was almost blind but not quite.
I rated this book 5 stars because it's really interesting if how Helen's life had been a huge success.
I would recommend this book who is interesting in history and how famous people's life came to be.
This book was, obviously, all about Helen Keller.
It talked about how her parents first discovered she was blind and deaf, and when Annie Sullivan came to help teach her, and how she began to travel around the country seeing people and giving lectures.
This was different from a normal biography because it had Helen's thoughts being expressed.
Helen was thinking throughout the whole book, and you could read her thoughts.
It was a very interesting way to include her into the story - many times Helen's voice is forgotten.
It was good, and a great way for kids to learn about the deaf and the blind.
Helen keller was born on june 27 1880 in Alabama,USA. She was blind and deaf because of her illness, and then helen met Anna(teacher), she taught her how to write words, how to speak and how to understand what someone is saying by touching her lips and throat, Helen keller was a major importance and role model for many people and an sinsational person who graduated from college knowing that she was blind and deaf. so no matter what you are you can do anything you put your mind up to even if you have to fight for yourself. Book#9
1. Title, Level Helen Keller, Level 32. Reading Time 180 min3. 7-word summary Child, fever, blind, deaf, teacher, education, trainings4. Discussion & Question Q. If you see blind or deaf people, what do you want to do? A. I want to help them walk. I think they need our help. 5. What I thought about the book I am happy that I can see and hear anything. If I could not see or hear anything, I would feel sad. I think that Anne was one of the best teachers! I would like to be a teacher like her.
The book was girl how to first learned to speak and read by feeling and raised letters with her finger tips. Lester she learned the special raised do it alphabet called braille. I read is book and I feeling was very interesting story because I connect Our learned about English programmer (speck of English). How Helen Keller, teacher how she thought her student. My attention graved thing that kind of teach rally hard . Then I gave a five stars.
A must-read biography for all of us. No excuse for waiting until I turned 40 to discover this gem.My 8-yr old son is reading the last chapter silently as I type. My wife read it in 15 minutes today over lunch. She cried. I cried. My son asked me so many questions about being blind and deaf. Helen is an inspiration to our family and next we will have a family movie night an watch the 1962 film.I discovered this book on Goodreads and read several amazing reviews -- thank you.
This book is a brief overview of Helen Kellers life. It starts with how Helen fell ill which eventually leads to her blindness and deafness. It goes on to tell us about a special person in her life who helps her learn how to live being deaf and blind. It is a great book to teach children courage, strength, and differences.Some activities you could do is to teach sign language to students. Character traits on Helen Keller would be great and then they could compare her to themselves.
Helen Keller is blind and can't talk or hear so her parents call in a special teacher, Annie Sullivan, to see if she can teacher her how to communicate. Annie never gives up and eventually, Helen understands and can now communicate through sign language. I loved Annie in this book because even through the hard times she never gave up. I would recommend this book to anyone who needs an inspirational story.
The book, Helen Keller, talks about the life of a blind and deaf girl. She was born a normal baby, but after suffering an illness, she became deaf and blind. Throughout her life, she overcomes her struggles and eventually learns to spell and read. I would recommend this book to someone else because I think this book was pretty interesting, because it was viewing the world from a blind girl. The way how she senses and interacts with the world is different from other people.
So this book encouragement a lot of to this time and to my future life because, even though she was not an healthy person such as blind, deaf and dumb girl, she continued her life such a normal person and she did different things like a other healthy people, for example she could to read a book, ride a horse, go to the university, and encouraged another persons who come from the with some deficiency, such as miss a leg or an arm.
In my opinion this book is one of the best books I had ever read. When I first started reading it I thought that it was kind of boring, although when I kept reading it I couldn't stop.Also, this book gaves you a lesson for life because is about a girl that couldn't see, hear and talk. After years, she started learning by herself and with her mother's help.Finally I recommended this book to for all the people who will liked to start reading something different and reflective.
You know, thinking back, I think this was the first biography I'd read. I still remember the cover and the section of the school library I found it in. My brother also loved it. And what do you know, years later, I'm interested in academically looking at auto/biographical writings of women. Helen Keller was just amazing. I'm not sure any biography of her could fail. But this one was great because it got a very young child to be fascinated by her story.
Helen Keller books are always tough for me to read. Not because of the vocabulary words, but because of the content of these books and all the struggles Helen endured. I can't even imagine what life would be like if I were blind and deaf. I don't know how I would make it. Helen Keller was a strong woman because she never quit. I would definitely recommend this book to grades 5-8. It has great potential for teaching them to be grateful for the things they so easily take for granted.
