https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/862002.The_Haunted_Showboat
Published in 1957 and stamp-marked 2.95 (no dollar sign) on the back cover, I gladly paid my $10.Anyway, in this case, our young sleuth is summoned to travel to New Orleans to solve the mystery of why someone is sabotaging the rehab of an old storm damaged showboat.
(hide spoiler)]I can sure understand why this young adult mystery series was so popular in its time with the wonderful old stamps within the front and back covers, and the lovely illustrations throughout the book, but one fact is blatantly obvious from start to finish and that is Nancy's well-mannered attitude and respect for everyone.
Not that great.
Yet another great novel in the Nancy Drew mystery book series.
I remember the first time I read Nancy Drew.
It blew my mind that there were girls presented with a brain.
Most of the stuff I'd read up to that time, was that girls were sugar and spice - fluffy.
No brains.
To also learn about George who is a tomboy was a nice validation.
Carolyn Keene wrote just for me!
That is how I felt.
When I did more research, I was shocked to find out, Ms. Keene was actually a man ...
I also loved the Hardy Boys.
No wonder I loved these series.Great for girls aged 8 and up.
I had read a ND book the previous year before...but I really didn't know what I was "doing." The Haunted Showboat is the first ND novel that I specifically picked up to read, knowing full well what I was "getting myself into." I'll go more into detail about this story in a moment, but let's go ahead and get the......General Housekeeping out of the way.Nancy Drew is the perpetually youthful, 18 year-old who lives in River Heights, USA (my guess is upstate New York).
Nancy and her chums travel by car to New Orleans to solve the mystery of an old haunted showboat.
I just sure wish that my daddy could have afforded to go out and buy me a new convertible if my (hypothetical for me) old convertible was stolen.
Mr. Drew tells his savvy daughter, "I was going to buy you a new one for your next birthday anyway." It's just as well because Nancy Drew has not had a birthday in the 20 years before this book nor in the 59 years since!
The eternal 18 year-old.
well now I have read a classic nancy drew. I do not have to read any more.
In this book “The Haunted Showboat” from the Nancy Drew series ,and authored by Carolyn Keene, Nancy is invited to go with her cousins, George and Bess, to New Orleans to solve a mystery and also have some fun at the “ Mardi Gras Parade.” Nancy learns new and exciting things that lead up to her solving the mystery.
“But along came Alex Upgrove from New York and Donna Mae lost her to him completely.” (page 2) Another thing that is important is this story is the “River Princess,” the River Princess is a boat that legend has said that there was a treasure on.
The Haunted Showboat (1957) finds Nancy invited to New Orleans at Mardi Gras time.
The uncle specifically requests Nancy to come to the rescue (I'm guessing Bess & George have been bragging to their family about all of Nancy's detecting skills--'cause how would he know otherwise?
There's a lot to appeal to the young reader--a car race of sorts as Nancy, Bess & George try to out-distance their pursuer on the way to New Orleans; a spooky old showboat with a ghost in the middle of the swamp; and a hidden treasure!
They were on their way to New Orleans when they saw the car that had got stolen, so the friends decided to chase after it and call the cops.
But then they go to the store and they see the car drive by so they call the cops to have them to a roadblock and catch the suspect, but he got away.
And they lost him but they got to New Orleans and went to this mysterious place with a boat that they had been told about.
And my other favorite part is when the friends scare the man by chasing him.
My favorite independent bookstore, Octavia Books, mentioned "The Haunted Showboat" during Mardi Gras in an Instagram post.
And how did I not know that Nancy Drew went to the Mardi Gras??
I loved Nancy Drew then and still do today, though some of my mild criticisms of it as an adult were things I found mesmerizing or delightful as a suburban pre-teen.The language is a bit dated, which is to be expected, and amusing at times.
It's a clear and common hallmark of gender stereotypes at the time.
Nancy is no damsel in distress!
Nancy's car is stolen right out of her garage, her dad buys her a brand new one (because of course he does), and then a bomb is planted in the new car - and all this within the first two chapters!This was much more action-packed than usual, which made it a lot of fun to read.
Uncle Rufus' "dialect" was uncomfortable to read, however, but I have to keep reminding myself that these were published such a long time ago in a different world.
I always laugh when the criminals immediately confess everything to Nancy as soon as they are caught.
No hard feelings?" I'm assuming the Miranda rights weren't around back then....
The book was a fun action packed Nancy Drew adventure! Nancy, Bess, and George encounter trouble before even leaving for the mystery in New Orleans. The description of African Americans in this book is something that might be needed to explain to a younger audience. However, the book depicts how pleasant relationships would have taken place in the South during the 50s. Nancy's teamwork, friendship, smarts, and determination is shown throughout the story.
I'm feeling a bit generous in giving this book 4 stars as it is the book I usually recognize as the beginning of "perfect Nancy." I was pleasantly surprised that I like the book as an adult more than I thought I would, though I tired of the stolen car parts of the book.
I like it and was so engrossed in it I could hardly put it down! But then, I can hardly put down any Nancy Drew book! :D
not as good as i remember, unfortunately. Still kind of enjoyable in a reminiscent way
This one was vaguely familiar to me, another enjoyable tale.
2.75
And even I, a the whitest of white people who grew up on snowwhite heroines like Nancy Drew, just kept thinking "white privilege!!" through the whole thing.
Good people have curiously absent high-flying lawyer dads who buy you convertibles, or have $$ lying around to restore an old steamboat for their daughter's engagement party.And what is WITH Nancy's relationship with Ned Nikkerson?!
I think the whole dating scene is/was a bit different in the US but it just screamed TEEN SWINGERS to me.I'm not sure in all honesty I could recommend my niece read (vintage) Nancy Drew anymore, even though she'd be oblivious to much of its oddness.
The Haunted Showboat  is a children's story by Carolyn Keene (pseudonym) and the 35th book in the  Nancy Drew  series. Nancy Drew and her friends travel to New Orleans where they are asked to solve a mystery on the "River Princess." Is there really hidden pirate gold on the boat and how does it affect Donna Mae's engagement? I’ve always been a voracious reader. So, as a child, one of my favorite things about summer was the frequent trips to our local library, which was less than a mile from our
Nancy Drew and her friends travel to New Orleans where they are asked to solve a mystery on the "River Princess." Is there really hidden pirate gold on the boat and how does it affect Donna Mae's engagement?
Even though I haven’t re-read any of these books since I was a child, I still think that Nancy is a great character—her courage, confidence and fierce independence, makes her an iconic source of inspiration for young girls everywhere.
A must-read children's book, 
is another wonderful Nancy Drew mystery.
Nancy takes another trip to New Orleans (like in Blackwood Hall, maybe?) to stay with another cousin of Bess n George.
They are a retired colonel and his wife and 20-year-old daughter, and they have house slaves named Mammy and Pappy.
The daughter's fiance is besotted by Nancy and he's totally a dubious character from the outset.Nancy's car is stolen in the first chapter, and her father immediately buys a replacement which is sabotaged before she even leaves town.
So three cars before we even hear about the mystery.
Book reads like a travelogue of New Orleans.
The series has definitely taken a turn for the more sinister.
Nancy and her friends are on their way to New Orleans for Mardi Gras and a mystery.
Once again, Nancy and her BFF go after a bad guy who is engaged to Bess and George's cousin.
This is the girl's second fiance.
She broke her first engagement to hook up with this guy.
Nancy and the girls have been out with some local boys - all in the name of solving the mystery - but they do stay out all night.
In the book, Nancy Drew by Carolyn Keene The Haunted Shadow boat talks about teenager loves mysteries, sleuthing, and solving mysteries.
She and her two cousins, Bess and George all three take a road trip to New Orleans, but no all for fun, there has been funky and creepy stuff going on, a shadow boat Nancy drew and her two cousins are here to solve it.
I like how in this book people will expect for Nancy, Bess, and George get an easy ride down to New Orleans but, this is a false statement.
Nancy, Bess and George go to New Orleans for Mardi Gras.
they meet a woman named Donna Mae. The woman had been engaged to a man named Charles, but she dropped him for another man named Alex.There's an old riverboat involved, along with two greedy and nasty thugs who are after hidden treasure.
There's a good bit in the book about Mardi Gras and the swamp and the people who live there, and some about voodoo.
They are trying to stop Nancy from getting to New Orleans.Once there, of course, Nancy is immediately involved in trying to find out what is going on about the old boat.
I'm enjoying walking down memory lane by re-reading Nancy Drew.
She seems surprisingly mature and self-sufficient compared to young people today.
I have to laugh when she alerts the police wherever she goes and they immediately pull out all the stops to help her--not that the police don't help, but that they are so trusting and go out of their way to keep her informed.
but that, of course, allows us to enjoy the mystery without hindrance.
The mystery this time was fun...pretty obvious, but well done and the solution was believable.
I'll keep reading these from time to time, for some very light enjoyment.
I wanted to see if the old Nancy Drew books were worth keeping in my library- or recommending to kids.
The Haunted Showboat is from 1957 and includes 'colored' help named Pappy Cole and Mammy Matilda, Nancy and friends dressing for dinner (they are changing clothes all the time), and other dated details.If this book were a classic, confusing vocabulary, etc.
But the book is far from a classic- and there are so many great mysteries written today for girls.
I thought this book was good.
If you like mysterys then you should read this book.
Nancy, Bess, and Goerge go to New Orleans to investigate a "haunted" showboat.
But right before the trip her car is stolen, and there is a snow storm and they even almost fall off a cliff.
Nancy and her friends also save a marriage because the girl thats supposed to get married her fiance is the one thats behing everything.
Since that happened she marries someone else and they live happily ever after.
If you like mysteries and the Nancy Drew series then you should read this book.
Nancy Drew, along with her best friends Bess Marvin and George Fayne, travels to New Orleans to solve the mystery surrounding a haunted and long deserted showboat, The River Princess. Colonel and Mrs. Haver, Bess and George's uncle and aunt, want to have the old boat restored for their daughter, Donna Mae, who is having a Marti Gras gala to celebrate her engagement to Alex Uprove. Following various clues, Nancy discovers that he is a phony, posing as the real Alex Upgrove, and in league with Spike, a thief who stole Nancy's car.
As a girl I had never read a Nancy Drew book so this was my first one.
It was about Nancy and her two friends trying to figure out the case of the showboat and why people were haunting it.
They encounter many obsticles of stolen cars and rocks being thrown.
I did enjoy it at the begining but as it went on it was too predictable and I got bored.
It was interesting and there were parts where I was excited to keep reading but I wouldn't recomend this mystery to anyone specifically unless they were alot younger than I am.
Nancy, George and Bess are headed to New Orleans for Mardi Gras! But it won't be all fun and games, because of course there is a mystery involved. It starts before the girls even leave River Heights: Nancy's car is stolen and then someone continues to attempt to delay their journey. Once in New Orleans, the girls learn about the mysterious river showboat that appears to be hauntes. It's up to Nancy and her chums to figure it all out before Mardi Gras!Another good Nancy Drew mystery. Not the best I've read, but very inventive like the others!
