https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/696692.The_Child_s_Story_Bible
From several years of experience presenting children's storytimes at the public library, I developed a keen awareness of when my audience was engaged and when I was "losing them." So, when I read Bible story books to my own kids these days, I love it when I find one that tells the story exactly the way I would put it.
And I love finding resources that tell the story in a way that's true to the source (what really happened in the Bible), but also in a way that's detailed, instructive and engaging.I have found all of these qualities in The Child's Story Bible by author Catherine Vos. Originally written in 1934, this story Bible has gone through several reprintings, showing it to be a classic that is withstanding the test of time.
The kids are so happy we are starting to read this again during our school time. 1/5/15Started reading more consistently during our summer break. Our goal is to finish this bible before September. 6/4/15New goal was to finish before the end of the year and we did it! Kids have already said this is a bible they would like to read again..krb 12/23/15
I LOVE THE BIBLE! I WILL READ IT A THOUSAND TIMES! the old testament was about israel, but l prefer the new testament when jesus comes in to the world. this book really change my life.
hmm... Not as good as I was expecting, based on the reviews. I feel like some liberties have been taken, and things have been added to the stories to make them more interesting. I like the Golden Children's Bible much better.
This is an excellent child's Bible, with a more comprehensive storyline. I appreciate the inclusion of a more broader spectrum of biblical accounts. Excellent for older children as a segway between children's bible storybooks and the Bible itself.
Rich theology, well-told stories. This was such a big part of my older kids’ biblical education in their early homeschool years. Now I’m slowly going through it with my littles.
And I think one of the best ways to do it is to buy Vos’s Bible Story Book.
Catherine Vos. Her husband was a professor at Princeton, and she wrote an excellent bible story book.
You can read a chapter at night, after dinner, and this I think is excellent.
For younger children this is ideal, many a parent has learned more about the Bible through reading Vos than anything else."The older children start reading a chapter a night at the table.
A chapter isn’t long, and you can read it, a verse each, around the table in a matter of minutes.
This is a perfect book when your child is ready to advance past the simple Bible stories told in most collections.
The Child's Story Bible includes the battles, the struggles, the victories, and the failures of God's people told with enough detail to keep the reader interested, but not so much information that it confuses a young mind.
I think this book works best as a read aloud so that as new topics arise, you are there to discuss them with your children.This is a great transition book from little story book to preparing your child to read and understand Scripture on his own.

When you read the Bible, the stories are all there, but hidden in the words of wisdom and other words that just make it sound confusing (!!!) that make it hard to see the stories behind it all.
This book makes it easy to see all the stories, that, even if you read the Bible all the way through, you don't get all the details.
You get the details and the connections (how people are related, etc.).
This book has taught our family so much about the people in the Bible that we learn something new every time we read it through!!!
Totally recommend for family read aloud's!!!
This is the best children's story Bible I've read. It is more mature than some, but our three-year-old enjoys it. It includes many stories, necessary details of the stories, and includes a redemptive-historical element in many of the stories.The only downside for younger children is that there aren't many pictures, but that can be overlooked.
Very thorough coverage of the Bible in more of a story form. It came in handy to avoid the repeated "so and so son of so and so" and some of the other details that should be skipped over when reading the Bible out loud to children. (for example rape)
There are so many different Bible storybooks out there, and as parents we have to be selective in what version we are presenting to our children. We have found this storybook to be accurate, readable and true to God's purpose in Scripture: to reveal Himself to us.
My favorite story Bible of all time! Wonderful retelling of some of the most important events of scripture. Even though I prefer sola scriptura, this is a beautiful paraphrasing for formative minds.
Love this as a tool. We use it to give big picture and to get through parts of the bible in a way that is more engaging than I can make it on my own. This and "the big picture story bible" are great. Wish James Jordan would write a kids story bible. Or Peter leithart maybe
Hands down THE BEST children's "story bible". Just disappointed I didn't find this much, much sooner. Written in a way a grandmother would read stories to her grandchildren about the Bible. We have included this as part of our homeschooling cirriculum! It really is that good ;)
I still have the copy from when I was a child and re-read it once in awhile.
Notes:super detailed, excellently told storiesa little wordy for ages 6-8my 9yo is interested in it nowlove that it doesn't depend on pictures like most
This is by far the best book for children's devotionals. It is even a great read for adults who want to understand the Bible better.
The Princess's daily Bible reading. Absolutely wonderful.
A favorite read-aloud story Bible
This has been our read-aloud Bible for the last two years. The kids have enjoyed and I believe benefited from it quite a bit.
My children want me to read it to them. Well done!
Read to my kids over a looooong time.
My children want to read this. Well done!
Superb, lovely for children about 5 and up. Really covers most of the Bible, not just the usual handful of "child-appropriate" Bible stories.
A wonderful read-aloud; does a great job of showing the "big picture". A favorite!
