https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13538873-mr-penumbra-s-24-hour-bookstore
It didn't take me long to realise that this was because the narrative voice reminded me so much of Ready Player One, a great adventure book which I read about a year ago.
If it wasn't for the fact that Ready Player One is set in the future, I could easily have believed that this story was being told by a slightly older version of the same guy.
Ready Player One is more involving and more fun, and there are countless versions of the secret-society-intrigue-and-mystery story that have more power, atmosphere and punch.
Meh - 1.5 stars because the plot was interesting enough that I finished the book and there were some funny moments.
The book is just bad first person narrative.
This would be an acceptable as a Syfy Saturday movie but not for a novel.For example "It's early in the morning.
Neel narrows his eyes." The entire narrative is just so damn obvious its annoying - here is what I see, here is what we are doing etc.
Also, the book is a novel long ad for Google and Amazon.
I like my Kindle but not as its own character in my book.
I'd like my $12 back.
this book is going to sell like gangbusters when it comes out in october.
you like books, right?
this is one of those books it is better if you discover and experience on your own, so i am not going to say anything else about it, suckers!but this is wild, page-turning fun, and i urge you all to get your hands on a copy if you like books about books.
It felt like I was picking up interesting knowledge and it kept me excited to read.- There were so many great uses of setting in this book.
I love the National Treasure movies, they are just a good ol’ time, and so was this book!- The characters were so complex!
We had so many different secondary characters constantly being introduced but the writing never made them feel unnecessary… in real life we have people that we need for certain things but only interact with very little.
But everything used in this book was real, and it made me feel like this adventure actually happened.- Finally, the main character.
We know that the world of books, publishings, and reading have changed in the recent years, thanks to the wonderful world of Internet.
We start looking for definitions from Google (instead of those huge print dictionaries).
I feel like I'm right there with Clay, and his eccletic friends: there's Kat, the smart girl working at Google, there's Neel, his millionaire best-friends who is making money by creating the best BOOBS visual in the world (yes, people, BOOBS!), Mat who is an extraordinaire with props, and of course, Mr. Penumbra, the owner of the store who is also involved in a secret literary group.
A suspension of belief at the right parts, or at least belief enough in the presentation to accept and enjoy it, is crucial to a good read.Penumbra is charming, and it was easy to be interested in Clay's search for a job, intrigued by the mystery of the bookstore, and captivated by the charisma of Clay's friends.
I thought the quest metaphor was clever, and appreciated the connection with a fantasy trilogy and friend that was instrumental in Clay's formative years but it didn't quite stretch far enough.
It's the kind of book that makes me wish that there were more books like it in existence.
Maybe I'll re-read this book and write more of a review when it gets closer to the October 2nd pub date, but for now take my word on this and put it on your to-read shelf so you don't forget about it!Oh and this book really makes me wish I had been smarter and younger and been the type of person that google would hire.
This is a totally hipster book that rings all my bells, I feel like it sort of summarizes the zeitgeist of our internet generation, the gap between old and new.Basically the main character, Clay, is unemployed tech guy, gets a job in a run-down bookstore that has a mysterious agenda that he can't help but get roped into.
I mean, Google comes into it, it's so almost a cliche for me this book!If I were to quibble, it's that the ending isn't quite dramatic enough, but the journey was so fun I can forget that.
Mr. Penumbra's 24-Hour Bookstore is the debut novel by Robin Sloan, and a publishing sensation - it was Amazon's Best Book of the Month in October 2012, and received a lot of attention and praise from reviewers, authors and readers.
No wonder - who wouldn't want a 24-hour book store?The novel aspires to be classified as a "literary mystery", or an "intelligent thriller" - both labels are somewhat insulting by suggesting that mysteries and thrillers are by default a lower tier of literature, and that the classic whodunnit does not require the use of the reader's brain other than to remember what the detective is called, hence the need to emphasize that this particular one is in fact intelligent and should not be grouped together with the common paperback, featuring the latest case of inspector Z in the series Y.
I hate the 21st Century sometimes'Your life must be an open city, with all sorts of ways to wander in''All the secrets in the world worth knowing are hiding in plain sight'.'There is no immortality that is not built on friendship'.For me these three quotations sum up this madcap book.
This is the sign of an excellent imagination and a first rate writer .There is one small little scene in the warehouse involving Clay and a portrait...when you read the book you will know exactly the scene I mean and it made me smile, broadly.
I feel kind of pretentious saying that, which makes me sad, because there's nothing I hate more than pretentious book reviews.
And he killed any potential for intrigue and adventure in the book by making his main character (oh-so-coincidentally) friends with experts on everything with access to every resource one could possibly need.
And I appreciate that Sloan didn't ignore it--too many books nowadays build elaborate plot points around things that could be solved with a simple Google (yes, Google again!) search.
It's probably a bad sign when the best thing about your book is that it glows in the dark.Sigh.
The story starts with Clay Jannon, who has lost his job at a bagel place where he is doing tech work and then goes to work at Mr. Penumbra's 24 hour book store.
After awhile, I though he was this geeky tech guy who wrote a book about all his favorite stuff - coding, different programming languages, a friend whose company creates boobs for computer games, food, GOOGLE (DRINK!), and his favorite book.
It was almost like he had this idea to create a video game but out of that instead came a book.
A brilliant Google programmer who is genius and quirky and of course MAJOR YOWZA HOT WE MUST POINT OUT REPEATEDLY WITH BOOBS AND EVERYTHING and for some indiscernible reason is interested in spending time with Mr. No Personality Main Character and faithfully helping him in his quest.
Without spoiling anything, I can tell you that apparently the moral of the story is we get by with a little help from our friends (wow, such deep, so learning, wow) except the author undermines his own point by actually having the main character go lone wolf in the last third of his quest.
Rating: 3.9* of five The Book Description: A gleeful and exhilarating tale of global conspiracy, complex code-breaking, high-tech data visualization, young love, rollicking adventure, and the secret to eternal life—mostly set in a hole-in-the-wall San Francisco bookstoreThe Great Recession has shuffled Clay Jannon out of his life as a San Francisco Web-design drone—and serendipity, sheer curiosity, and the ability to climb a ladder like a monkey has landed him a new gig working the night shift at Mr. Penumbra’s 24-Hour Bookstore.
I considered stopping reading several times, but it was such a quick read that I just sped on through.The novel made a dramatization of numerous topics that I do feel like I have a bit of expertise around - San Francisco, Googlers, data visualization, encryption - and the book's representation came off as a shallow, borderline painful overt dramatization.
Normally, I like the reference to something I know - it creates a personal attachment to the narrative...that was not the effect of this book.The prose wasn't particularly laudable.
I liked the mix of old and new knowledge/media/books, and the bookstore setting was fantastic (especially such a strange bookstore!) but once we got into the mystery, my interest evaporated. I also felt like the characters were all a bit too ~convenient~ in that they all had special skills that ended up somehow becoming necessary throughout the novel to help the main character with his quest.Overall, a fun book, but nothing mind blowing!
Hell, even the characters have interesting names such as Kat Potente, Corvina, and Ajax Penumbra.There's even a bit about google and coding which reminded me of one of my recent new favorite books, The Circle, and made this book seem both classic and contemporary at the same time.The writing is really witty and I was caught off guard quite a few times by the unexpectedly funny twists in storytelling.BUT...
The whole reveal of the code was a major letdown, which I thought did not suit the rest of the book at all.
This is not a review, it's a love letter.I adored this book.
The theme of Old Knowledge (books) vs.
But I will restrain myself and wait until it is published in October.
This book is  fun .
It's the kind of book that made a reader of me, the kind of book that keeps me reading, the kind of book I can't wait to tell people about.
The first third of it was promising, then everything about it petered out. The Harry Potter meets techie vibe began ok, but got tedious. A romance started off interestingly, then quickly wallowed. The same for the author's philosophical ruminations on book love in all its forms: print, ebook, audio. Be it characters, settings, or situations, all started interesting, then turned into duds. I skimmed through the last third, finished it only because I'd started it.The audio book reader, however, was great.
Initial thoughts:1.
Loved Clay.
He is wonderfully funny, and geeky.
His journey throughout the story was fantastic.2.
Loved the combination of new and traditional, young and old.
Seeing ideas, and characters that are different and opposite come together.3.
Lot's of wonderfully geeky elements.
Design, typography, technology, books, and other very nerdy things.
I really liked and appreciated how the characters and the story was grounded in reality.
There are a lot of elements that had the potential to shoot off in the fantasy/sci-fi realm, but I was glad that it didn't.
Really grounded the story and made it more realistic.5.
DNF @ 48%Just...
so very boring.
But instead it wastes time on:- a protagonist so boring I've forgotten his name- a manic-pixie-nerd-girl who's soooo down-to-earth guys (she seriously only owns 10 replicas of the same shirt because she just DOESNT care about fashion and she works for Google, she's just super chill, okay??) - random my-roommates-are-making-out-drama- a bunch of technobabble about how because of Kindle and Nook books will die out and we will live in a sad, desolate future.
There's a somewhat interesting mystery that kept me going for a little while, but the story forgot to make me care?
Over a year ago, before I was on Goodreads, I tried to read this book and gave up on it early on thinking it was for a much younger group of readers.
I also had too much going on and sometimes when you have a lot going on in your life it can impact everything, including what you're reading!
After reading so many other people's glowing reviews I finally decided to give it another go.
This time I read the whole book and by the 1/2 way mark I was hooked!
If you like quirky stories I highly recommend this book!
So glad I gave it another try!
And then we begin the main plot, finding ourselves in the midst of a hundreds of years old cult of book-worshippers, secret puzzles and codes and a ragtag group of characters that stretches from your expected conservative cult leaders to modern-day tech CEOs and programmers, all thrown together by the draw of solving a puzzle.It sounds like a premise that should work- it really is a new twist on the literary cult mystery, trying to see what it might mean for a generation with new ideas and new technology.
Soon he's trying to solve the bookish mystery with the help of a friend who works at Google, and they get entangled in a secret society that goes back hundreds of years.Besides the secret society, the novel also features a book-within-a-book plot involving a beloved fantasy series, a mythical font designer, Clay's flirtation with a quirky girl named Kat, and some colorful friends, including guys who create props and special effects for movie studios.
Readers who like bookish mysteries will probably enjoy Mr. Penumbra's.Sidenote: I took this book on a recent trip to San Francisco, and because I had a hardcover copy, I had removed the jacket to protect it from wear and tear.
Now that I've finished the book, I'll read the story.)The book -- AMAZING.
Clay finds himself unemployed (like many these days) and one day stumbles into a quirky bookstore looking for a late-night clerk.
The bookstore is full of books Clay's never heard of before (in fact, no one's heard of them).
One night, he gets curious (and bored) and creates a basic computer replica of the bookstore WITH data from the customer logbooks.
Mr. Penumbra is full of Google goodness and San Francisco love.
(Also, both books are awesome.)June 2012: Is this the story that started it: http://www.robinsloan.com/mr-penumbra/ ?
She basically represents everything about my generation that is awful, and is the reason why so many of us are struggling to find jobs (NOT at Google where, quite honestly, I had been desperate to work until I read this book).
Our generation has a terrible reputation, and Sloan does a great job showcasing why, frankly, I wouldn't want to work with us either.The vast majority of the characters in this book feel entitled to knowledge that they haven't earned.
I thought Mr Penumbra's 24-Hour Bookstore would be a charming, quaint and lovely tale about an old bookshop that's open all night and visited by bookworms, lonely night-owls and other oddball characters.
I thought a jobless-down-on-their-luck-underdog type character would start working at Penumbra's and thus their life would change, lessons would be learnt, friends would be made, and people from different walks of life would come together and share their passion for books and a special little bookstore.
There were parts of the book I did enjoy: Its always fun to read about areas you know well.
I know about all the 'fun' perks at 'Google'.....(lots to love),but I wouldn't call myself a "Googler" (Goo-gull-urz), by any means!
---The TRUE *Goo-gull-urz's* might get a kick out of this book.I feel like I just had a crash course in:"Google Forever Life Extension"!
(heck, any guy that does not tire of his girlfriend wearing the same read t-shirt every day ---is a guy I'd like)....And....I figure the 'author' is THE GUY in the book (wrote about himself a little???/!!!!) Heck yeah, its 'Sloan's' first book!

[I was sent an arc by FSG.]I love this book.
And while this is happening, you realise: damn, I look good.Why do I love it?
Well, it's a good-hearted, optimistic book about friendship and being alive and the lure of the mysterious.
It's a book which shows you Google the way Google sees itself, and bookshops the way bookshops ought to be.
It's a tonal roadmap to a positive relationship between the old world and the new.
This book is in my emotional heartland.I want to live in Robin Sloan's world.
