https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/201009.Meet_Molly
Felicity was my particular favorite, though, with Molly ranking somewhere behind Samantha and Addy, and possibly also behind Kirsten.
Sorry, Molly.
But at any rate, I think I can safely point to the American Girls series as being the catalyst for my lifelong love of historical fiction, and this is book especially stands out in my mind.
And it's a quick, light read too, with just enough history woven in where it's needed to make things flow smoothly, which should be a plus if you're struggling with a reluctant reader.
(It's worth a quick read for grown-up girls, too, if only for the nostalgia.)
We didn't even talk about this one on the podcast and I re-read it just cuz. OH MOLLY your life is very chill compared to Addy's but I still love you.http://www.frowl.org/worstbestsellers...
So I starting this book once upon a time because I thought the girl had my name, I was maybe 7 at the time so you'll have to forgive me.
Molly is a normal girl growing up in the middle of WWII, her father is away and there is a mentioning of food rations.
She doesn't like her brother and her older sister is acting like she's a grown up now (basic sibling stuff) while she can't figure out what she and her friends should be for Halloween.There really isn't much else to say since it was so short but I liked it.
It was really good! I liked the part when they went trick or treating!:)
But Molly treats her like she acts better than everyone when she doesn't much, Molly actually acts like she's better than everyone else at times.
Oops I mean stepsisters" When Ricky and Molly started this whole prank war I thought the punishment was pretty fair that the mother gave him.
It actually kind of shocked me to see Molly's friend say "You were right Molly, She was way too easy on him" and then take matters into their own hands causing trouble for everyone, even her sister and sisters friend.
Who had no part in the whole prank war.
Yes in some ways major differences, but still Molly was the girl I identified with the most, living during a period of history that fascinated me the most.It is because of my love for this character growing up and even to this day that I decided to read back through some of her books to give Molly a fitting farewell.
He books will always live on according to the American Girl website but still it is not the same because when another little girl falls in love with Molly and wants to be just like her and have the doll just like her it won’t be available.
I was a big American Girl fan when I was a little kid.
I never owned any of the dolls, but enjoyed every series of chapter books and give them partial credit for my love of historical fiction.
I can honestly say that I got part of my healthy mindset about what it means to be a woman from these series about little girls.Molly was always my favorite.
Those books combined developed my long-lasting love for that time period and interest in the war's history.Last year, I learned that Molly was retired and bought the doll for myself while I still could.
As a child, I used to read the American Girl book series and I really enjoyed doing so.I believe that 4th/5th grade students will enjoy reading these types of books.
As I reread this book, I noticed how Molly's story can be used as a connection to what American families went through during WWII.
In Molly's story, we learn how her father is serving the country by being a doctor somewhere in Europe.
We also learn what families used to do back home to help support their troops.
I feel that this book can give young girls a perspective of what it was to live during WWII.
Reading this series now with my daughter. Her grandmother, who was born in the late 1940s and is fascinated with all things WWII, gave her the set. It's a great way to introduce concepts of recent, global history and social science because Molly and her story are engaging and relatable to a 21st century girl. Looking forward to the other books!
I LOVE this book. I'm not even gonna write a proper review. All I'm going to say is that, if not for this book, I wouldn't be a voracious reader.  This was the first novel I've read and I wanted to keep it so badly that I stole it from our school's library. Luckily, our librarian wasn't too keen on checking out missing books from the shelves...so there. I know. I know. That was bad of me.
This book was written so well. It's the first of the American Girl books that I have read and I was pretty impressed. It was meaningful and not superficial at all, as I somewhat expected (to be honest.) I look forward to reading more and hopefully sharing these with my daughter someday!
I'm revisiting my favorite American Girl stories.
I enjoyed reading the first three books in Kirsten's collection and wanted to explore the other decades.
I read this book while waiting for dinner to cook and I didn't enjoy it as much as I remember.
Molly is a nine-year-old living in 1945 while her father serves as a doctor in WWII.
Although it was via very sly propaganda, it was a nice feature that I haven't read many books set during this era.
I think she was acting out because she missed her father and the strict regulations her household followed.
Molly McIntire is living in America during World War 2.
It is autumn and Molly is very excited about Halloween.
Mollys father is away at war.
This was a common theme throughout the story.
Molly and her friends decide to be hula dancers for Halloween.
Because of the context of the Molly series, it teaches very important historical lessons.
My favorite part of this story was probably how when Mollys mom got home late she heated up Mollys turnips and added a little bit of sugar and butter from their rations so that it would taste better and Molly ended up liking them.
Our book club was challenged to read books from our middle grade years. I remember obsessively reading The American Girl stories, especially Molly, Samantha, Felicity, Kirstin, and Addy. I am going to revisit my favorites, Molly and Samantha. Side note, it takes no time at all to read them as an adult. I love Molly's spirit. The antics with her brother were humorous. I also remember loving the full page illustrations and wondering how they chose which scenes to depict.
When I was growing up my parents bought me all of the Samantha books. The ones that I really wanted were the Molly books. I'd borrow them from my friends or the library so I could read them. I remember them more than the Samantha books, even though I owned those. Anyways, I love them. And they really hold up better than I thought.
I loved reading American Girl books when I was younger, and I still read them sometimes now since I love historical fiction. This one was my favorite because it was set during WWII, and it's a great way for kids to learn about what the homefront was like during the war, and the different sacrifices each family had to make, no matter how small.
I read this book 12 years ago and found it again tonight! Sweet little book. The "Looking Back" section has a lot of good information as an introduction to World War II. Any young kid interested in history should definitely check these out!
It's a very simple story and book overall, but that's what makes it great. The events are realistic, and the history isn't forced. It's a very feel-good story.
a childhood favorite <3
It's just so sweet and my childhood! It's good they add the history of the story at the end as well! I don't care how old I am I still love these ❤
Re-read this book and fully enjoyed it again! It's wonderful to see how this set seed in my 5th-grade self a love for the WWII era.
This book and series are books good for a preteen reader. Puts a twist on history while addressing feelings.
Molly was always one of my favorites alongside Felicity, Kirsten, Addy, and Samantha.
I think it is sad for her dad to go to the world war 2 and she will get revenge on her brother because he muss up her hallowen time yeah I did not read a lot of this book I want to read it.
Teaches about the war
Nightly read with my 6 year old. Cute story set in a time just before her Grandmother was born so she finds it fascinating learning about how things have changed.
Audio version.
cool book but not my fav
A dull and cringy introduction. Molly begins as a very unlikeable character with little personality. Hoping the books improve.
