https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/653711.Crystal_Singer
I see a woman that is hell-bent on remaining without attachments.
She is very bright and talented, but remains aloof emotionally (the come-and-go sexual relationships), socially, psychologically (huge ego), physically (her choice of profession).
Originally the high achievement in a difficult occupation was fascinating, a work that required all sacrifice--something I dreamed of myself.
Now, however, I have found the importance of relationships and a social life unlike at any other time in my life, and know that the career and high achievement may need to be sacrificed for these things I deem more important.
I may not even finish it this time around.
Meanwhile, they (and the reader) all learn about various aspects of Ballybran, crystal, weather, and transport, and Killashandra and a bloke named Rimbol have a lot of sex.Then it turns out that Killashandra is brilliantly well-suited to the planet, as she gets through the infection bit with practically no side-effects, unlike everyone else in her group, all of whom get very sick.
Dis cover.Old-school sci-fi (1982). Only $2.99. I need to try it.... plus, I lurve the musics and singing.
Even so, it should be noted that McCaffrey has a general formula which simplified would be something like this:1 - Girl has exceptional ability2 - Girl is repressed unfairly by those close to her3 - Someone recognizes girl's unique abilities4 - Girl becomes successful5 - Along the way girl finds romance with man who appreciates her strength and he is primarily there to support her in her role of being wonderfulI actually take my hat off to McCaffrey that she can rework this general theme and that I continue to read most of everything she has written, even when I know what will happen.Also there are generally sexual relationships within McCaffrey's books though not very graphic.
That was just as enjoyable to reread as the other 15 times or so I've read it. On to book 2. Love me some Anne McCaffrey!
I have read this book at least 6 times over time.
The story is about a young woman in the distant future from a far away planet who is dissillusioned after finding out she can never be a solo singer due to a latent burr in her voice.
She travels to another planet and becomes a part of an unusual ecosystem by singing to and with Crystal rock formations.
This crystals are used in communication and spaceship drive systems.
Well written and filled with imagery and drama.I am reading this book again for the 7th time...summer of 2009.
Like a lot of Anne McCaffrey books, I'd read this before.
Very quick to judge.
Judged others for being parochial and naive when she'd hardly traveled or done anything exceptional.
In fact, before becoming a crystal singer, she'd never left her home planet before.
I seemed to remember lots more crystal singing when I'd read it earlier.
I would've loved to read more about that.
In terms of characters, apart from the Guild Master, all the others were one dimensional.
In fact, the Guild Master wasn't very likeable either.Jeeze - I sound harsh and I really admire and respect McCaffrey too.
This was a good story but also a lot of world building.
I've read it before, a number of years ago.
Killashandra has been rejected from her dream career in music as a soloist.
We learn a lot about the world and the items that make this world unique in the Federation.
Because of the world building, the plot is a bit disjointed and rushed.
I'm interested in rereading the second one and just discovered there is a third that I'm fairly certain I have never read.
I own the third one and I'm not sure if I've read the second one.
My husband has a habit of leaving his books lying around and when a cover intrigues me, I'll pick it up. This is actually a re-read from many years ago. I liked it just as much the second time as I did the first. I've never liked any of McCaffrey's other books (yes, Hub has many of them). There's something about Killashandra Ree's character that makes me happy. A strong woman, doing what she wants, when she wants. It's all good.
Crystal Singer is a really exceptional sci-fi/fantasy that any musician or music lover would immediately fall in love with. McCaffrey's characters have distinctive personalities and their futuristic world is written out very vividly.
This book sucks you in with a compelling protagonist, who is given an unfair hardship in life and strives to overcome it.
It then introduces a new job for her that she is warned against, as it is incredibly dangerous and life -altering.
I also thought it was wierd that one of the characters was mean, because she thought the spore wouldn't take, and she'd just die anyway, so everyone hated her.
Not a bad book- I'd give it more of a 2.5 if i could-, but the main character just isn't compelling after a while.
Otherwise it's a fun book to speed through, visit another world for a while, go on a little adventure.
I consider it one of Anne McCaffrey's best.The main character, Killashandra Ree, has been studying music intently for ten grueling years, only to learn that she's judged not to have the vocal ability (because of an unfortunate, barely audible burr in her voice) to be an operatic diva, one who will sing lead roles or solos.
I pick it up every few years when I want something light and fast to read.As far as pondering goes, I can see Killashandra's character appeal as an exploration of my shadow, since I'm the complete opposite, not wanting the limelight at all.
This book generally felt like an earlier work from McCaffrey. I would have given it more of a 2  star rating if Goodreads would allow—somewhere between okay and likeable. I did appreciate the entire concept of the Crystal Singers. The planet, the profession, the resulting sub-culture... It was beautifully depicted. And the author got to flex her extensive personal knowledge of the musical arts, which gave the whole thing a more cohesive and authentic feel. But to me the main character, Killa, wa

Rereading a book is always an interesting proposition, especially when there's a significant chunk of time (at least 20 years for this one, I think) between reads. Fortunately, The Crystal Singer remains a good book. There were elements of the story that I recalled, others that I'd forgotten, so there was both a familiarity and unfamiliarity to it. Anne McCaffrey writes space fantasy, I think, merging science and mysticism in her worlds. I am as enthralled by her words as Killashandra is by crystal.I hope that you will be too.
First published in 1982.Good to know. In this case, I'm going to be milder and only say: this book didn't age well. The Con: I absoltely have no sympathy for authors who can't keep the physical traits of their (secondary) characters straight throughout a book.Neither do I have any sympathy for authors who spoil their own books, not once, but twice during the first story (view spoiler)[first we - at the very beginning of the story - are informed that she see's Cellerik's name on the member list s
I absoltely have no sympathy for authors who can't keep the physical traits of their (secondary) characters straight throughout a book.Neither do I have any sympathy for authors who spoil their own books, not once, but twice during the first story (view spoiler)[first we - at the very beginning of the story - are informed that she see's Cellerik's name on the member list several years later, which practically tells us, yes, she's going to be a singer in the guild, otherwise...
Due to a symbiotic spore which infects everyone on Ballybran, they live long but lose their memories, making their ties to other humans rather tenuous, and they obsess about crystal, to the point where jumping one's claim triggers homicidal attacks.
And Killashandra wants to become one, after a failed musical career and a serendipitous encounter with a crystal singer on vacation.Of course, not everyone makes it.
A lot of the book covers her training and how the Heptite Guild structures society on Ballybran around crystal singers, which I personally find fascinating (and brings me back to this book), even when the actual plot itself isn't particularly compelling.
I'm working my way slowly through Anne McCaffrey's sci-fi books.
This one was better than I thought - I just want to say both covers with this one and the other one with Killashandra bending backwards are pretty bad.
I showed this to my husband and said, "This is supposed to be a beautiful woman." (With constipation and sucking on a sour lemon!) There's a lot of free and easy loving going on, no details but whoever strikes your fancy.
I'm planning on reading the rest of this triology.
An old favouriteI've lost count of the number of times I've read this book and it has been a few years since the last time. It holds my attention as much now as it did the first time, when I was a teenager. Into my 40's now, maturity has brought greater understanding of some of the themes but not lost any of the compelling story. The character of Killashandra delights me in many ways but also brings recognition of her flaws. McCaffrey was always a genius at creating human characters that you could empathise with.
I just can't do it. I can't finish this.Every so often I try again and only manage to skim another page or two before being defeated. It's dull, thick prose and I can't remember what I ever liked about it.I'm giving up and moving on to my next McCaffrey book.
review to come :)
I read this first back when it was originally published, in 1985.
Reading it again, 32 years later, I see her more sympathetically.
She starts off devastated by failure at her chosen profession in music-- not just music, but as a concert singer and operatic star, possibly for the first time.
They are fascinated with each other, spend some time together while he's on vacation, and she learns about the cutting of crystals that much of galactic technology is based on.
And most of the rest of the story is about how she becomes what she wants, and what the crystal does to her.
It's good stuff.
Good Read.
Old favoriteI've read this book a few times - once fairly recently, I feel like (within a few years) but strangely, never reviewed.This book is the first one in a three book series written by fantasy power-house author, Anne McCaffee.
Not a lot happens in this book other than character and world building, but there's just so much to learn about Ballybran & Killa that you never feel like the story isn't moving right along.My copy of the book did have rather a few grammatical errors - or perhaps the English language has just changed that much in 40 years, but I was surprised at some of the wonky sentence structures.
reread this in ths hospital
This books makes even less sense than I remembered, and I didn't think that was possible.
Tight narrative, well-developed characters and plot with twists and turns to keep your interest. I couldn't put it down.
Many people tell her not to go down that path, as crystal singers are a select group that can never truly leave their planet, not to mention the personality problems they all seemed to have, but she recklessly throws herself forward anyway.The book details her life as she goes about becoming a crystal singer--the training, the background of the world she's on, her relationships with others.
To become a crystal singer, one of the requisites is adapting to a symbiote, which happens when people touch down on the planet.
This book was only 300 pages, but it seemed to go on foreeeever.Alas, by the end, I did not care at all about what happened to our dear, over-dramatic heroine, Killashandra Ree (you can tell McCaffrey really loved writing that name, because her full name is used way more often than necessary).Which was fine, because it's not like there was any tension anyway.
let's be honest, most of the book is just Killashandra eating, sleeping/resting/taking a bath, having sex, or staring at crystal.
As she is about to leave she is recruited by a crystal singer of the Heptite Guild of Ballybran who musically harvest the crystals on which galactic civilization is built.
The guild is not for those who want a safe life but if one is successful one will have resources and power that few in the galaxy will ever even see.
In many ways this book spoke to me as I have a tendency to take the safe path rather than really taking any true risk in life.
I really enjoyed this one!
It is dated in some ways (an amusing amount of space casseroles!), but it's a pleasure to read a science fiction book where the stakes are one woman's satisfaction with her career instead of the fate of planets or the entire universe.
Every time I reread the Crystal books, I find myself relating more to Killashandra.
That's not to say that there was ever a lack of enjoyment on my part, I've been reading these books regularly for over 15 years, but instead of wanting to be her, I find myself relating directly to so many of the things she says and feels and does, even if our situations couldn't be more different.Except for a few unfortunate and outdated word choices and some ableism of a type that's still more subtle than a lot of what gets published today, this book holds up remarkably well to the social movements between its publishing and, at least as of this writing, 2018.
Killa is a flawed but headstrong protagonist who isn't punished for her existence in her universe, nor for her desire to hold (monogamous) sexual or romantic relationships with multiple partners throughout the story.
