https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7332.The_Silmarillion
I had tried to read this book multiple times in the past and had basically given up, but I finally realised that I was attempting to read it the wrong way; I was trying to read The Silmarillion like I have read and reread LOTR, as a story, an epic story of course, but still a story.
So this time, I read The Silmarillion the way I used to read my Bible and how I approached Hesiod's Theogony and other books on Greek and Roman mythology (reading small bits and pieces, following along via audiobook at the same time if possible).
The book was no where to be found on his dumb little island… but that wasn’t going to stop our little afro hero… he looked and looked, he went to used bookstores, he ordered 5 times in the expensive ones, he looked online, on the streets, even on the flea markets… but they were not to be found… one day after wating for 2 hours for his translator to finish translating and E-copy of The Lord of The Ring: The Fellowship of The Ring.
It’s a huge piece of world building, and there really is nothing else quite like it.
In here he relays a huge amount of history, a truly staggering amount for a fictional world to possess.
I often talk about the need for world building in fantasy, and here it is in full force.
He wasn’t the first, and he certainly won't be the last to write such fiction, but he was the best writer to ever attempt it.
(جان رونالد روئل) تالکین؛ ویرایش: کریستوفر تالکین؛ مترجم: مریم واثقی پناه؛ تهران، سبزان، 1385؛ در 455 ص؛ شابک: 9648249407؛مترجم: رضا علیزاده؛ تهران، روزنه، 1386؛ در 624 ص، نقشه؛ شابک: 9643342662؛ مترجم: حسین ترکمن نژاد؛ تهران، غنچه، 1393؛ در دو جلد، شابک دوره: 9786007721070؛این کتاب، نخستین و آخرین کتاب تالکین بزرگوار است، داستان دوران نخست از جهان خیال تالکین، «درام کهنی» که شخصیتهای «ارباب حلقه ها» نیز، رگ و ریشه ی خود را در آن میتوانند بیابند.
The Silmarillion is a must read for any Tolkien fan. It's filled with legendary characters, great history and amazing places. Also- Beren and Lúthien. *stares dreamily into space*
So began their great labours in wastes unmeasured and unexplored, and in ages uncounted and forgotten, until in the Deeps of Time and in the midst of the vast halls of Eä there came to be that hour and that place where was made the habitation of the Children of Ilúvatar.___________________________________________Dark now fell the shadow on Beleriand, as is told hereafter, but in Angband Morgoth forged for himself a great crown of iron, and he called himself King of the World.
How To Build A Truly Convincing Fantasy World1. It's all about the language. Make sure your world's language is convincing, and you're pretty much there. Conversely, if your language sucks then everything else will.2. Your book can't include more than a few sentences in your invented language without losing your audience. But it can include plenty of names. So what people will really judge you on is the quality of the names.The rest of this review is available elsewhere (the location cannot be given for Goodreads policy reasons)
Though I love the Lord of the Rings and the Middle Earth Universe with all of my heart, tackling a large part of its history in this manner was tough going.
The world Tolkien created is absolutely extraordinary, without a doubt.
Unfortunately The Silmarillion is written as a long history or mythology of biblical proportions.
I can respect how wonderfully intricate and detailed the world is - but with that many characters and no straight story to follow through....
I'm pleased to be able to say I've done it, but I don't think it's one I'll be able to come back to time and again.
Sauron was become now a sorceror of dreadful power, master of shadows and of phantoms, foul in wisdom, cruel in strength, misshaping what he touched, twisting what he ruled, lord of werewolves; his dominion was torment. Ah, Sauron, Maia of Aulë—beyond doubt the singularly most enthralling antagonist whom I encountered as a young reader, possessing all of the malevolence and dark charisma and naked power of Satan, but unhobbled by the multi-aspectual morphology of Christian theology and popular

However, I have just finished re-watching The Lord of the Rings trilogy extended editions and reading the Three Great Tales of Middle-Earth that’s edited by Christopher Tolkien.
Like many of the stories contained in this book, I genuinely think that if the right author re-wrote these stories with multi-characters POV to follow instead of an omniscient biblical style of writing, War of Wrath would definitely be one of the most epic fantasy war to be written.
Though I had many near-misses with The Silmarillion throughout the years (having been introduced to Tolkien's universe by discovering The Hobbit in my school's library in 5th grade), I finally slogged my way through it during the summer after my sophomore year of college.
After making my way through The Complete Sherlock Holmes, I decided to revisit Tolkien.I had read The Hobbit twice before and the Lord of the Rings once (and a half).
I followed up by reading The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings in succession, immediately after finishing The Silmarillion.
Silmarillion tells the tale of the making of the world by Eru, the God of Middle-Earth and all that followed through the first two ages of creation, up until the events described in The Hobbit and LOTR.
But it is not a novel exactly, for it covers countless years.Eru and his Valar, spirits of great power, create Arda, which is the Earth that is seen and there they make the world ready for the coming of the First Born, the Elves.
The fact that a single man was able to create a fictional world with so much detail absolutely blows my mind.
I think it would be too confusing and just a bit too much as a starter to this world.2.
You also probably shouldn't read this if you didn't like either of the aforementioned books.
You need to care for Middle-earth and its history to properly enjoy and appreciate this one.3.
If you did enjoy the aforementioned books, do NOT go into this one thinking that you're going to get a similar adventurous story.
The description it probably fits the best is "bible of a fictitious world".
Buddy read with the lovely Karishma Karishma, you are the Tolkien queen!
The Silmarillion is difficult to read and I don't think it is even meant to be read straight through like a novel. Another reviewer put it best when he said "The Silmarillion is like the Bible, it's the Bible of Middle Earth". It's the magical setting of The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings and it tells the history of the place, the inhabitants, the languages, and the legends that came before Bilbo and Frodo. For you Ring fanatics, you haven't finished the story until you've read the history.
This is not Lord of the Rings Plus; it's quite literally the Old Testament for Middle Earth, beginning with the creation of the world and ending just before the War of the Ring, which forms little more than a footnote in the more-than-epic sweep of time portrayed.If you're excited rather than put off by the above, then what a ride you're in for.
There are some slow parts: the beginning in particular features an overlong description of Middle-Earth's imaginary pantheon that almost made me put down the book the first time, and the ending seems tacked-on, a half-hearted attempt to extend the Silmarillion's timeline to that of the Rings trilogy.
This books was not written to make readers like an specific plot twist or character.
This book is solely the recompilation of various tales that happened in the world where The Lord of the Rings was settled in, from the beautifully written Ainülindale and the creation of Eä, to the end of the Third Age and the Fading Years.That being said, you'll understand that it's not odd at all to find chapters entirely dedicated to geography or genealogy.Am I making it sound like a boring book?
Beautiful stories about Arda's astrology
Elves being awesome
Breath taking love stories
It is by far more difficult to read than The Lord of the Rings (which I already expressed my love for earlier in the year after completing my re-read) or The Hobbit but its greatness is found in the way it mixes together epic fantasy, mythology and linguistics to create a grand tale of creation and destruction.Part of what I love so much about Tolkien's entire Middle Earth story is that there is a cycle as to how events take place.
This creation tale features around the idea of the one true god Eru Ilúvatar creating minor gods (or angels) responsible for the development of Middle Earth.
Ποιητικά υπέροχες αλλά και καταθλιπτικά λυπητερές.Το Ακάλλαμπεθ είναι κεφάλαιο που καταπιάνεται με τη Δεύτερη Εποχή και συγκεκριμένα την πτώση του βασιλείου του Νούμενορ.Τέλος Τα Δακτυλίδια της Δύναμης είναι ουσιαστικά η Τρίτη Εποχή που είναι η πιο γνωστή στους περισσότερους όπως: Σάουρον, Γκάνταλφ, Χόμπιτς, Άραγκορν, Μόρντορ, κλπ.Ο Τόλκιν είναι ο αγαπημένος μου συγγραφέας και έτσι λογικό είναι να δώσω αυτού του βιβλίου άριστα με τόνο.Είναι ένα βιβλίο που δεν κατάφερε να ολοκληρώσει, μιας και ήταν απίστευτα τελειομανής και συνέχεια άλλαζε τη μορφή των ιστοριών τα ονόματα, συνέχεια έκανε αλλάγες.
Ne znam iz kog razloga do sada nisam čitala Tolkina...Kako god, moja prva knjiga ovog pisca, svakako ne i poslednja.Na početku beše konfuzija...Mali milion imena božanstava (duhova) i vilenjaka na jednom mestu.Bilo je ono: " Ko beše ovaj?
:D Međutim, kako knjiga odmiče, sve se vraća na svoje mesto zbog toga što se imena likovai opisi istih više puta pojavljuju (ponavljaju) u knjizi pa je gotovo nemoguće da ostanu neupamćeni.
This tale is so epic in the original sense of the word, so full of glory, pride, hubris, tragedy, pathos, rise and downfall that it left me no less in awe than my favourite “real” mythologies.
Every line of “The Lord of the Rings” and every event in Middle-earth.
For with everything that it is, “The Silmarillion” is also primarily an account of the decline of a people sprouted out of their world, yet not essentially belonging to it: the Elves.
But I also knew I wanted a dignified closure after pouring so many emotions into this and after everything essential had already been said.
After binge watching the extended editions of Lord of the Rings with one of my best friends, I have decided now's the time to return to Middle Earth in novel form. Very excited, very intimidated. Let's do this.
I love messy elf drama.Super excited to kick off my Tolkien re-reads with this one! I think I actually enjoyed this more the second time around! It can be, admittedly, a little bit dry at times and I definitely enjoy certain chapters/stories more than others, but... I adore the world, so it's always a fairly enjoyable read tbh. I picked up on things that I missed the last time I read it - it's just a little bit lore heavy, so that's understandable. Also just about everyone has at least 2-3 name
I love messy elf drama.Super excited to kick off my Tolkien re-reads with this one!
It can be, admittedly, a little bit dry at times and I definitely enjoy certain chapters/stories more than others, but...
I picked up on things that I missed the last time I read it - it's just a little bit lore heavy, so that's understandable.
Also just about everyone has at least 2-3 names each, so trying to get my head around all of those is always an Experience.Next stop: The Hobbit and then I'm finally gonna be re-reading The Lord of the Rings for the first time in yeaaaaaars.
NOTE: This book is the prequel to the Hobbit-LOTR books, and if you haven't yet read those two, the ending of this book has spoilers for both.The book (first parts being written down in 1917) is divided in five parts; the first two books deal with creation and prehistory, then comes the main part which deals with the quest to get the Silmarils, plus various stories about people and persons, often tragic.
The fourth part tells the story of Numenorean people, and the fifth is post-Silmarils and into post Numenorean time, with things familiar to those who have watched/read the Hobbit/LOTR stuff, including the story of the rings and the coming of the wizards.
Warning, this book is for Tolkien junkies only. It is not for casual readers of Tolkien... not--the Hobbit was kinda fun, wasn't Bilbo cute--sort of readers. In fact I believe it might be prerequisite that in order to enjoy The Silmarillion, one must have read The Lord of the Rings a minimum of three times. I am one such dedicated dweeb so I love it.
واو بالآخره تموم شد! واقعاً توصیه میکنم هیچوخ تو امتحاناتون کتابای قطور و سنگین نخونین! هم عذاب وجدان ِ امتحان هس، هم اینکتاب ِ طفل ِ معصوم.خب از قبل هم میدونستم با چیز پیچیدهای طرفم. و بهخصوص که یهبار سوم راهنمایی شروعش کردم و بعد پونزده تا بیسصفحه بهفوبیای تالکین و الخصوص سیلماریلیون دچار شدم، گذاشتمش کنار تــــــــــــــا حالا که بهخاطر توصیه و علاقه یکی از دوستام رفتم سراغش. الحق خیلی عظیمه؛ ینی بخش آخرش که در مورد حلقههای قدرت و ایناس، شما نیگا کنین چطوری شده حاصل ِ ارباب ِ حلقهها؛ در حالیک
و به‌خصوص که یه‌بار سوم راهنمایی شروعش کردم و بعد پونزده تا بیس‌صفحه به‌فوبیای تالکین و الخصوص سیلماریلیون دچار شدم، گذاشتمش کنار تــــــــــــــا حالا که به‌خاطر توصیه و علاقه یکی از دوستام رفتم سراغش.
الحق خیلی عظیمه؛ ینی بخش آخرش که در مورد حلقه‌های قدرت و ایناس، شما نیگا کنین چطوری شده حاصل ِ ارباب ِ حلقه‌ها؛ در حالی‌که اونم خودش خدا صفحه‌س.
که خب، گفتم یه‌بار جهت انس‌گرفتن با این‌کتاب، یه‌جور الله‌بختکی‌واری بخونمش و بعد برم اونا رو بخونم و بعد باز برگردم سراغش که دیگه حسابی تو ذهنم جفت و جور شده باشه.بگذریم از استادی و هنر تالکین، سایه بسیاری از افسانه‌های کشورهای مختلف رو این‌کتاب سنگینی می‌کرد.
Non sanno gli Elfi che cosa ne sia dei loro spiriti dopo il decesso.
V'è chi dice che vadano nelle aule di Mandos; ma il loro luogo di attesa quivi non è lo stesso degli Elfi e, sotto Ilùvatar, Mandos solo, e con lui Manwë, conoscono dove vanno dopo il tempo della radunanza in quelle silenziose aule presso il Mare Esterno.
Può essere che, dopo il decesso, il fato degli Uomini non sia nelle mani dei Valar, né tutto è stato predetto, nella Musica degli Ainur”.
This book was probably not the way to be introduced to the LotR world.
I'd never seen any of the animated movies.
The new movies hadn't come out yet.
I'd never even picked up any of the books.
Then this book was assigned as part of the course I was taking.
And it fooled me into think the rest of the book would be just as good.
Maybe if I had read the other novels first I might have enjoyed this one.
Maybe I'll pick it back up one day and change my mind about it.
It's not really a review, more of an extra long recap (way spoiler heavy) links to each post are here.Heavy Spoilers below.Look.  Here's the deal with The Silmarillion. If you're not a huge Tolkien nerd, you're probably going to throw your hands up in disgust, swearing and tearing your hair out after the first two pages.  Even if you are a huge Tolkien nerd, if you generally skip past the songs in LotR and the Hobbit or can't handle creation myths - you will probably end up like the people in th
Maiar - names and descriptions  Bad Guys - Melkor (also now going by Morgoth) and his minions (former Maiar, some of whom come to be known as Balrogs [SEE IMPORTANT!]) and his first lieutenant, Sauron (also important, I told you to pay attention!).
Aulë created the 7 FATHERS, so I'm not sure what's up with the girly dwarves.)Also, my awesome friend Em made this for me, which shows WHAT COULD HAVE HAPPENED and it makes me laugh SO HARD I had to share it with you guys:THENNNNNNNNN, Melkor runs off to hide in his fortress in Middle-Earth and all of the Valar hang out in Valinor, only occasionally heading over to M-E to spy on his nefarious doings.
"En el principio Eru, que en la lengua élfica es llamado Ilúvatar, hizo a los Ainur de su pensamiento; y ellos hicieron una Gran Música delante de él. En esta música empezó el mundo Continuándo con la aventura de leer completo el Legendarium de Tolkien llega "El Simarillion", la clase de libro sobre el que no tengo idea de como hablar ¿Cómo juzgas la obra de una vida? ¿Cómo hablas de la manera que tiene Tolkien de explotar y dar tantos matices a su tema recurrente (a.k.a. la obsesión)? ¿De que
Continuándo con la aventura de leer completo el Legendarium de Tolkien llega "El Simarillion", la clase de libro sobre el que no tengo idea de como hablar ¿Cómo juzgas la obra de una vida?
¿Cómo hablas de la manera que tiene Tolkien de explotar y dar tantos matices a su tema recurrente (a.k.a. la obsesión)?
¿De que manera hablas de los personajes cuando son tantos y tan bien definidos?
