https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6419.Plum_Lovin_
Book Review  3 out of 5 stars to Plum Lovin', an "in-between" novella in the "Stephanie Plum" cozy mystery series, written in 2007 by Janet Evanovich. There are 4 of these "in-between" cross-over novels, where Stephanie works with Diesel (from another one of Evanovich's book series) to solve a case and/or fall in love -- you can't always tell for certain! In this one, the focus is around love and Valentine's Day, as a matchmaker has gone missing after supposedly committing some crimes. Stephan
Book Review
There are 4 of these "in-between" cross-over novels, where Stephanie works with Diesel (from another one of Evanovich's book series) to solve a case and/or fall in love -- you can't always tell for certain!
Stephanie avoids falling for Diesel, ignoring Ranger and Morelli, and searches for some answers.
It's a cute mini-book that crosses the two series and hopefully brings new fans and/or a needed respite from the formula in either series.
It's fun and cute, little substance, but will make you laugh enough that it's worth the read.
For those new to me or my reviews...
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
Short. Cute. And, Diesel always shows up for these half-books. He's totally delicious and willing to whip out his dimples when necessary.
I have a hard time with the 'Between the Numbers' books.
(I am pushing 40 and I have never really blown a car up - I'm just saying.)That aside, I think this was still worth reading if you are a Plum fan.
It kills me to pay full price for a book, so I have a hard time wrapping my head around it.
Anyway - If you have never read an Evanovich I think you would be better of hitting "One for the Money" and the other number books before juming on the 'Between' books.
Love this book! A little in-between the numbers with the gorgeous Diesel. Much better gift for Valentine's Day than chocolate and flowers..well maybe with them. May 2016-- Still lovin' it!May 2018—Diesel shows up and convinces Steph to become a ‘relationship expert.’  Yes. You heard that right. The girl who can’t decide between Ranger and Morelli is given the job to help others find love. 🤷🏼♀
Love this book! A little in-between the numbers with the gorgeous Diesel. Much better gift for Valentine's Day than chocolate and flowers..well maybe with them. May 2016-- Still lovin' it!May 2018—Diesel shows up and convinces Steph to become a ‘relationship expert.’  Yes. You heard that right. The girl who can’t decide between Ranger and Morelli is given the job to help others find love. 🤷🏼‍♀️
I would go to Stephanie Plum for advice on making my hair bigger than Mt Rushmore or what boots might make my husband sweat behind his knees.
Relationship advice from the largest commit-phobe in all of Trenton probably would not get me very far.This is one of the only books where Stephanie doesn't destroy a car and Grandma Mazur manages to not cause hairy-kairy at a funeral, but the laughs abound none the less.Shorter than the number books, grab this between the numbers book for a good laugh as Stephanie runs around trying to do Cupid's dirty work.
I love Janet Evanovich, I love the Stephanie Plum series.
It is the sole series of books that every single time I read them, they cause me to laugh out loud.
Every one of them has been clever and well written and absolutely hilarious.This is a "between the numbers" book, meaning she just wrote a small Plum book to keep us entertained after releasing #13 recently.
In it, Stephanie agrees to help out a match maker with her most difficult clients, one of whom is her sister Valerie's fiance, who faints at the idea of getting married.Very short book, not overly taxing, but a whole lot of fun!!!
If you love Plum, you'll enjoy this.
This was a quick read...cover to cover took only about 2 1/2 hours.
There wasn't much to it...not a lot of suspense or intrigue or really much interesting.
I've been looking forward to reading this author for a long time, not only because she lives in NH but because everyone seems to be reading her stuff.
I hope the rest of her books are more interesting than this one!
I guess this would be a good beach/pool read...you know, when you're a little bit too distracted to pay attention to elaborate plots & you don't really care if you get sand in the pages.
Fun having another story with Diesel in it, definitely makes me want to pick up his series and start it as well.This was very classic Stephanie with all the gang which was a lot of fun and always good for a laugh or ten.
Despite being much shorter than the full-length novels, the Between-the-Numbers stories have just as many laughs (maybe even more) than the full-length books.
In Plum Lovin', Diesel once again appears in Stephanie's kitchen with a strange request: she must play matchmaker.
The Between-the-Numbers novels, while being loads of fun, suffer from continuity problems.
In this story, Stephanie is back to driving her yellow Escape.
She also talks about her apprehension in the sex store, Pleasure Treasure, which happened in book 12 when she acquired the "Herbert Horsecock model", so the sequence of events is a little off if she's driving the Escape vs the Mini.

I love all the regular Stephanie Plum novels but I'm not sure I like these between the numbers novellas. I was very disappointed by this one. Nothing much happened in it and it was extremely dull and boring. It wasn't anywhere near as funny as the regular novels do be and I really hate the supernatural element in these novellas. Janet Evanovich you can do better than this! To fans of the series, just jump to the next number in the series – don't bother with this one!
#12.5 in the Stephanie Plum seriesAs with all the novellas in this series, this one was very silly and light and quite entertaining.
I love when Diesel is part of the story, and he was as sexy and funny as always.
But Diesel has Annie protected until he can capture the person who's out to get her.
So Stephanie is left to handle Annie's job of Cupid, just before Valentine's Day. She has to find true love for one woman, teach some sexy moves to another, and help a shy man ask out the woman of his dreams, among other things.
Very entertaining.
This one takes place between Twelve Sharp and the forthcoming Lean Mean Thirteen.There are some negative reviews of this little novella, but I don’t think the negative Nancy’s and I were reading the same book; Plum Lovin’ was an absolute riot!Diesel, who last appeared in Visions of Sugar Plums (the Christmas novella that goes between Hard Eight and To the Nines) and he needs her help again: Annie Hart, a bond jumper, is being tracked by an Unmentionable.
#12.5 in the Stephanie Plum Trenton, New Jersey bounty hunter series. Light in tone, long on humor with great characters. In order to obtain a bail jumper, Stephanie agrees to help Diesel, person with "unmentionable skills" who keeps popping into her life, catch another person with "unmentionable skills" who is spreading bad cases of hives all over the place. Valentine's Day is coming and Stephanie has to help several people find love or whatever romance they are seeking by that day as part of the deal.Really an enjoyable quick read.
This book was okay. It was a quick read. I read it today and didn't start reading until 2 this afternoon. And that's with a napping break AND a break to watch the sobfest that is Extreme Makeover Home Edition.I wouldn't recommend this book to someone who hasn't read any of the books in the series. It just barely explains events and characters from past books. It also wasn't as funny as previous books in the series. I think that may be because the grandma wasn't featured a lot.
In this 'Between-the-Numbers' novel, Stephanie takes over matchmaking duties. Don't expect much in the way of danger and chases, but do expect a lot of laughs as she also copes with the presence of Diesel and Bob (the dog).
Funny, Emotional, Fun & Fast Read!!! Loved It!!!
Love Diesel!!
This was much the same as the first Between the Numbers, but seemed to have more contact with the cannon. Was the (view spoiler)[sister's wedding (hide spoiler)] cannon like this, or is this some alteration from what was put in the main series? I also disliked (as I disliked these not being more removed from the main series due to the paranormal addition) that in this book Diesel becomes romantic non-interest #3 (and not mentioned in any of the main series books!) - the Stephanie Plum books do not need any more of that.
I needed a break with some mindless silliness. Stephanie Plum to the rescue. I have all 3 "Plum" groups ready to go...Nothing like reading a book in 24 hours. Thank you Stephanie....certainly not fine literature, but just what I was looking for. Although, there was not nearly enough Ranger or Morelli in this "between the numbers" episode.
I love the Stephanie Plum series. I guess this is an “in between series” with the Diesel character. This is the 2nd book in that series. I liked it but it left me wanting the original series plots and characters. Still a good read.
Not as bad as I thought it was going to be based on other reviews. Funny in many parts, this is an entertaining & quick read. Not sure I'd read more of this series, as I'm not overly compelled by Stephanie Plum's character. Only reason I read it is because I'm missing book club & a local library is hosting one around this book.
Really good book, really looking forward to reading the series by Janet Evanovich.
Home sick today, and this was an excellent audio book to curl up with as I coughed and blew my nose. Much better than Visions of Sugar Plums which was the first between the numbers I had read.
I also can't help but laugh at how nonchalant Stephanie has become over the many books in this series, about all the men that just seem to come and go in her apartment.
This FTA is a big bond and Stephanie has to find her, but only Diesel seems to know how to do that, and he isn't telling Stephanie a darn thing until she helps him solve his mystery too.
However, this is a great book with a great mystery and many laugh out loud parts to it.
It was nice to have a break in this book from the constant love triagle that is "Joe-Ste-Ranger" (hehe..
I just adore him, in some ways maybe more than the other two guys.
He's the best of both her worlds.These last few Plum books have had me wondering though if Stephanie's life would be nearly as interesting if she had a two bedroom apartment instead of just the one bed.
Somehow all these hot guys just have to crash with her since they're all to big for the only couch...Dang it!
Frankly, for this Between-the-Numbers book Evanovich is just “phonin’ it in.” The usual cast of zany supporting characters is here – Lula, Grandma Mazur, etc – and the mysterious Diesel makes a return appearance.
While I’m still mildly entertained by the wackiness, Stephanie’s basic ineptness has lost its charm for me.
On the plus side, Stephanie’s ongoing indecision between Morelli and Ranger barely gets a mention, and the book is mercifully short.
The audio is only 3 discs long; the paperback text version has printing so large, I double checked to see if I’d gotten a large-print edition.
(I’ve seen children’s books with tinier print.) King’s performance on the audio is great, however.
Meh. The between the numbers series seem to exist to explain little things like Valerie's next pregnancy and marriage.
Other than that, these books aren't good.
But these novellas are just not good.
Main characters make cameo appearances and their behavior is totally out of character (Ranger apologizes for startling Stephanie after breaking into her apartment?
Stephanie's Dad threatens Diesel?
So not the characters evonavich has us reading about in her other books.)Bottom line, these books are good for a Stephanie fix if you had to wait for the next one to be published...
They detract from a fun series and really serve no point n advancing the story line.
I'm not sure that I liked this book.
It was like eating a chocolate chip cookie when you really want chocolate cake.
but it's not really what you want.
I wanted Ranger, but instead got handed some dude named Diesel, who doesn't show up in any books besides these little novellas.I like the storyline just fine, but I didn't like the supernatural side to it.
Regardless, I didn't love it like the other ones.It's also that I might be all Plumed out right now.
I didn't feel like 14 was as good as the previous ones, so maybe I just need a good change of pace for a while.
I have heard so many women rave about the books by Janet Evanovich, but I was never driven to read one.
Since my book group is currently reading mysteries, I thought I would give one a try; my local library did not have One for the Money on the shelf, so I thought I would go for a "between-the-numbers" book.
It was good for an audiobook - you didn't have to pay too close of attention, the characters were fun, and the plot wasn't intricate.
I have been told I must try the numbers series, which I will do, eventually.
Overall, a good listen.
