https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/426077.Dream_Psychology
Reading books for tarot and divination, authors will always refer to his works and almost of his concept were used in numerology.Jung's adviser, Sigmund Freud published a book that simply explains his own theory of meaning of dream, a part of psychoanalysis in which we understand ones people characteristic by giving meaning to their dreams.
For example dreams, I thought, dream interpretation are for those people who deeply desired of understanding its divine meaning and not for scientific basis.
But reading the book, it clearly shows that dreams were studied well by Freud and his people.
We feel urge to do something and our active foreconscious refuses the idea, dismisses it which now goes and holds its place in unconscious mind.
The guard, though resting, is still active enough to censor the apparatus of unconscious and might wake us up if the dream content sounds harmful to it.
The phobia is thrown before the anxiety like a fortress on the frontier.”However, its purpose is to make sure our body gets sound sleep and hence the harmful dream continues sometimes mixing itself with real life happening, distorting its contents by 'condensation' and 'displacement'.
4.5 STARS.Extremely beginner's one.As I'm keen reader of psychology and read a lot about Psychology behind dreams always making my curiosity enhanced as well as enlighten my own perceptions about it.Classic book for beginner of Psychology, it also improvise Facts and old theories about Dream.Learning with simpler definition and examples.Good lines-*"Firstly come those which exhibit a non-repressed, non-concealed desire; these aredreams of the infantile type, becoming ever rarer among adults.
Secondly, dreams whichexpress in veiledform some repressed desire; these constitute by far the larger number ofour dreams, and they require analysis for their understanding.
2018 book for all seasons challenge: controversial or banned bookSo I picked this because Freud right? What about him wasn't controversial? But it's all true he really does see sec in everything or it's not worth looking at. It's all blah, blah, blah then something ridiculous. I will admit I am analyzing my dreams a bit more objectively now. What did I do yesterday? What was I reading? Did I fall asleep to music? Who have I not spoken to in awhile? Etc this is bro going more focus to my mornings.
:|سه منبع مهم براي رويا:نخست ممكن است يك آرزو در روز به ذهن خطور كرده باشد اما محقق نشود و بماند براي شب.
سوم اين كه ممكن است آنها هيچ ارتباطي با زندگي روزانه نداشته باشند اما به آرزو و تمايلاتي مرتبط هستند كه سركوب شده و در شب پديدار مي شود.طبق تعريف ارسطو، رويا توالي فكري ايجاد شده در ذهن است كه در طول خواب رخ مي دهد...اين بروزها و جلوه هاي قوه تفكر را به هنگام خواب مي توان به شيوه زير طبقه بندي كرد:١.
افكاري كه در طول روز سركوب شده اند.٤.
Seeing certain objects in the dreamscape and actions related to those objects that originate from the day before or past experiences aren't so easily attached to wish fulfillment as much as they can be a brain's analysis of past events and a survey of possible results from a hypothetical change in a real event, this allows the brain to explore what could have happened.
Freud talked as though the wish fulfillment was the finite answer in such a situation but I felt that this conclusion was far from foregone for some of the reasons stated above.
I haven't touched on Freud's ideas of sex being a factor in most dreams because all I can do is state opinion here.
Although I read this book on a long stretch, due to the fact that I was reading it on my mobile during transitive times (waiting times at banks, restaurants, traffic signals, etc.), I enjoyed it, because I was interested in the concept it proposed - in regards of the kind of dreams it dealt with of course, because in Islam, dreams are of several categories, and the category of Ru'yah (vision), for instance, is not valid in Freud's belief.
Moreover, the concept of conscience, fore-conscience, and unconscious is merely a theoretical attempt to explain how the psyche works.
It remains just interesting but will always lack evidence.
Freud has often bee accused of being overly obsessed with sex and after reading Dream Psychology I can definitely see why this is the case.
While he does raise and discuss several interesting theories about dreams in general, eventually for Freud, they almost all come down to sex.
He actually discussed a dream he himself had as a seven year old boy in which his "beloved mother" dies and states that this dream was a "repression to an obscure obviously sexual desire".
Well, I do admire Freud and what he did for the field of psychology, but that example really does seem to be stretching the sex card a bit to far.
بالاخره تمام شد با این کتاب یا بهتر است بگویم با ترجمه کتاب اصلا راحت نبودم اگرچه که یک اثر ممکن است به خودی خود پیچیده و چندلایه باشد اما خواننده انتظار دارد متنی شیوا و فصیح را البته با حفظ امانت در محتوای اصلی مطالعه کندباید اضافه کنم که پیش از این کتابی در خصوص فروید یا از آثار وی نخوانده بودم شاید کلا قلم و سبک فروید چنین استبه هر حال برای فردی که میخواهد با اسرار خواب یا حتی شیوه تفکر فروید آشنا شود به عنوان اولین کتاب شاید پیشنهاد ایده آلی نباشد.
This book starts off rather interesting in deconstructing the idea that a dream is meant to fulfill a desire but as I read this the points seemed to hammer on and on in the same fashion until I was bored to tears. Good start, could have been a bit more I interesting.
He looked at facts a thousand times "until they began to tell him something."His attitude toward dream study was, in other words, that of a statistician who does not know, and has no means of foreseeing, what conclusions will be forced on him by the information he is gathering, but who is fully prepared to accept those unavoidable conclusions.Available at:http://librivox.org/dream-psychology-...Original Text at:http://www.gutenberg.org/files/15489/...
I crashed through the audiobook version of this in a weekend to prepare for an assignment.
Here's my take away: ...Holy jumpin jephoosaphat God DAMN!!!
Had no idea.
(And this is the edited later updated one, not the original turn of the century version.) He does have quite the fixation at one point in the text on sexual imagery in dreams which i personally believe is simply a product of growing up in a nigh Victorian level of emotional sexual repression.
But many of the things he has to say about how the mind manipulates subconscious imagery is potentially spot on.
So a part of the assignment consisted of researching and reading about Freud's achievements and breakthroughs.
What might shock you, as it did shock my teacher and my classmates at that time , is that reading about Freud and his acclaimed breakthroughs only resulted in me despising him v.v Hence.
I know I'm not the only who is not a fan of his after reading how heavily he is criticised by some psychiatrists and psychologists.
P.S. if I have read it before I would've quoted it in the dissertation though :3
This book is funny and strange.
At that time, to read about dreams and psychoanalysis was an amazing experience.
Ok, maybe all of the thing that Freud talked in this book is wrong now.
But at the time I read it, it is reasonable, articulated and funny.
I always wonder whether my dreams has any meaning and this book give so many reasonable explanation.
I hope that nobody will find it!And I remember that I read some case studies of Freud (not sure in what book) and they are amazing.
It is more fearsome than any scary book that I have read.
This title is, in essence, a comprehensive analysis of Freud's psychoanalytical studies, research and empirical observations.Freud begins by explaining the meaning of dreams through presentations of varied real examples. He then proceeds to explain the causes of dreams and their relation to past and on-going events in our lives, he analyses dream elements, and then explores specified topics such as sexual thoughts in dreams and humans desires and wishes...
After using some of Freud's techniques on my own dreams it is hard to deny that there is some truth behind some of his theories, even as strange as some of them might be. However, I can never be a full believer of psychoanalysis simply because there will always be a piece of my heart that wants to believe some of the messages in my dreams come from a source beyond me, but I will say that I enjoyed the read. It was fun and definitely informative.
Good introduction to understand the psychology behind dreams.
While aged, it is applicable and strong in its practice. Freud has unsurprisingly provided an informational read that doesn't take your brain through the wringer just to make a point.
I am not a fan of Freud (overly sexualizing everything, general pseudoscience), but dreams are interesting on their own. There was a bit of insanity here, and some common sense (which might just be widely accepted forms of Freud's ideas, since it's been a century...), and a few things I hadn't thought of which seemed interesting. Overall, still not worth reading, but not horribly unentertaining.
Turns out most everything in my dreams really just represents a penis....
On dreamsIt's Freud's "On Dreams" rebaptized. Essentially, according to this book, dreams manifest from either recent impressions, repressed emotions or wishes.
Favourite passages:First of all, Freud pointed out a constant connection between some part of every dream and some detail of the dreamer's life during the previous waking state.Secondly, Freud, after studying the dreamer's life and modes of thought, after noting down all his mannerisms and the apparently insignificant details of his conduct which reveal his secret thoughts, came to the conclusion that there was in every dream the attempted or successful gratification of some wish, conscious or unconscious.The dream gave him what the day had withheld.Age is no protection against folly.I believe, however, that at all events the Roman Emperor was in the wrong who ordered one of his subjects executed because the latter dreamt that he had killed the Emperor.
Although I do believe Freud is correct in his assertion of the repressed state of sexuality resulting primarily from our religious heritage, I do not believe he is correct in trying to deduce a sexual explanation of everything revealed in our dreams.A proof realized in quantum physics research is that the observer influences the outcome of that which is being observed IE scientific experiment can be proved one way or the other by the intentions and predispositions of the one making the experiment or observing.
There are a great many things I believe Freud understands and deduces correctly but a sexual root to every mental or psychological issue is in error.
:)This book delved deep into the analysis of dreams, what they mean, where from they originate, and how their source ideas receive the portrayal as we experience them in dreams.
Very insightful.I would definitely recommend the book to people interested in dream psychology, understanding the relationship between our concious and our subconscious or unconscious mind.
And one line quoted in the book (from Plato) "The virtuous man contents himself with dreaming that which the wicked man does in actual life."
I finally read a Freud book from cover to cover. My thought after reading the book is amazement. Not amazement at Freud's intellect, but confusion regarding why he's heralded as such an authority.I assume his enduring impact is due to his pioneer status, not the substantive quality of his writing. This book consisted of unprovable statements with no successful argumentation. Nowhere throughout the book did I find a compelling rationale or evidence-backed claim. Instead, he layered supposition upon random supposition, upon random guesswork, upon whatever caught his fancy.
I found that I very much enjoyed reading Sigmund Freud's Dream Psychology, through out the novel Freud used his own experiences and dreams in order to explain his ideas on dream psychology. I found this very amusing as it very much provided me with evidence as to what Sigmund Freud was like, just like what my psychology teacher explained.
This was my first actual reading of Freud's primary works, but there were hardly any surprises. This text is concerned mostly with examples from his personal Psychotherapy practice, and left me seeking a more detailed and supported explanation of his underlying theory. Certainly not bad for an introduction to Freud, though.
An interesting read. I've read into dream psychology before, so I did know quite a bit of this. However, it did bring a great amount of structure toward that knowledge.
I am reading it first time but i have heard lot about it.
This was surprisingly interesting. I read it because one of my sisters had an unusual dream she was really curious about. She said this analysis was right on! Lol
