https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1456411.Portrait_of_a_Marriage
On a whim I started reading it, and realised to my surprise that it was much more than the story of an "unsuitable" marriage.The marriage of William, an artist and the son of a rich businessman to village belle Ruth is unsuitable, no doubt - at least from the point of view of his family.
Pearl Buck masterfully creates the portrait of a world in turmoil (as it goes through two world wars and their attendant deaths and heartbreak), reflected in the humdrum daily life of a rural couple.
As the family proceeds through generations, we understand that this is not the portrait of one particular marriage, but marriage (and life) in general.
Most books go into detail about a certain few years in a characters life… this went from before William even met his wife until his death as an old man, and how his widow coped thereafter.
She was a Proverbs 31 woman to me, living to better his life and keeping up the house and farm just the way he wanted, etc.
It makes you wonder who has lived before you, even several generations prior, to help make you who you are now, even if you never met them.
A very good book.
Buck konečně něco přečíst a tak jsem sáhla po této úzké novele, 2.vydání z roku 1970, v překladu Jarmily Urbánkové.
Byl to docela zážitek, číst si v těch ohmataných, mírně zažloutlých a zapáchajících stránkách (moje rodiče si ji kdysi dávno koupili v antivariátu za 14 Kčs).
Je to mistrně napsané, na 170 stránkách autorka podrobně popsala příběh jednoho manželství od seznámení se až po smrt jednoho z partnerů.
Nevěřím, že by to tak opravdu bylo, ale četlo se mi o tom dobře.
Reading this book gave me some insight.Buck's Portrait of a Marriage is the unbelievable tale of how a high-born New York artist as a young man falls in love with a simple farmer's daughter from rural Pennsylvania, and they get married.
In other words, this novel is essentially the daydream of someone who wants to believe that love can overcome class differences.
We are made to understand that the couple has a healthy sex life though, and this, fed by the artist's patronizing admiration for his wife's simple-mindedness and stout healthy body, is what keeps them together.
Good read although some of the language was a little stilted since it was written in 1941. Story of the courtship and almost 50 years of marriage of William (from a wealthy family, educated, and a promising painter) and Ruth (a simple, uneducated farm girl). Ruth did everything for William while raising 3 children and running their farm to allow William to lead a life of leisurely painting. They were totally devoted to each other to the exclusion of their children. I enjoyed this book. A good and steady story.
Several reviewers have expressed the opinion that it was the couple’s deep and enduring love for one another that kept this marriage together against all odds.
In my opinion, most of the credit for the long duration of this unconventional marriage belongs to Ruth, whose display of strength and maturity through multiple marital crises, including the reappearance of an old lover, far surpasses that of her husband, who seems to play a more passive role in the marriage.The writing is flawless.
This was the first Pearl Buck I have read. I enjoyed her writing style. It was definitely a slow paced, laid back type of novel that was exactly what the title said it would be. -- a portrait of a marriage. The characters were complex individuals despite their simple lifestyle. I will definitely try another one of her books.
I loved this book! The tenderness expressed in the relationship between the main characters is heart-warming. Compared to modern novels where relationships seem shallow and artificial, this novel explores the inner workings of marriage complete with the insecurities and doubts of loving ones' spouse deeply and completely.
Great insight!I loved this book as I do so many of Pearl Bucks books.S he had great insight into a long marriage ,having been in one her self.I liked the way she showedthe natural changes that happen in a long union. The story was sweet and comforting .
An old-fashioned love story.
Omg one of the best books ever for me. Really delves into characters
A very intimate look at what really counts in marriage, and a good story.
Not her best.
A bit different from Pearl Buck's other novels, not in style, but in setting. This is the first book I've read of her novels set in the United States and about marriage of two different social classes. At first I wasn't sure if it was up to her usual high standards, but by the end, I was convinced she had another great book. How did she write so many and so well?
The book unfolds their tale.Pearl Buck captures the reality of such a relationship, formed out of the communion of two people from entirely different worlds.
Pearl Buck very sensitively brings out the internal conflicts of the couple, each of whom struggle so ardently to fit into the other person's way of life and expectations and find themselves failing, and slipping away to their roots.
What amazingly beautiful and romantic prose.
It was that lovely.
The way the couple communicates their need, the way they bless each other, the way the loath and despise each other all brings them to joyous oneness.
They live and love to the time when they no longer need passion--they are simply one.
Again, she captures perfectly the man's insecurity about children, as well as the way children tear the woman's heart, rending it in such a way she must ignore the man even though it cripples him.This is simply the most amazing story of human connection.
I am in awe of the raw honesty of imperfections of the characters.I am in awe of the author's ability to make life so poetic.After I read this book , it stayed with me a long time in my mind.
I did not like some of the characteristics of William.
It made me consider the fact that some people just do not have the ability to care about their own children.
This lack of capability is almost expressed asnot liking a certain taste in food...or just not his cup of tea.
Something of this book made me reread it .
Worth the quick read but not as good as Buck's other work, and even not as good as her other book about an artist's life, This Proud Heart.
It's an interesting comparison, having read them back-to-back, and I wonder how much of the difference is due to the male protagonist vs.
As far as I can tell (being an American woman) she seems to handle Chinese male protagonists well, but I'd have to go back and read with that in mind.Anyway, a good book with themes of city vs.
A co-worker loves this book and she kindly lent me one of her copies.
While reading this book I had to remind myself that I couldn't interpret the relationship by my current standards.
This is a very loving relationship, but I can't imagine how it could function in today's society.Pearl S.
Buck is a beautiful writer and I captured quite a few quotes that I will read when I need an inspiration fix.
I now plan on reading The Good Earth (I'm one of the few people that wasn't required to read in high school or college) and maybe pick-up some of her other works.
Intense character studies highlight the vast differences between two people, bound together in love, who share their entire lifetimes, each suffering the loss of what could have been. A fascinating insight into the intricacies of a unique relationship and how the attributes and aspirations of both individuals filter down in unexpected combinations in their children and grandchildren, who somehow continue what is left incomplete. This novel leaves you pondering about life and what is really important.
I had mixed feelings about this book. I love Pearl S. Buck's writing, loved seeing the characters through their long lives, loved Buck's commentary on the process of life and living in a marriage, but the main characters were so strange and selfish. A husband who loved his wife so much that he had little love for his children, his parents, etc. A wife who could only live in her own little world.
I hadn't ever ready anything by Pearl Buck and always wanted to, and this one looked interesting. Even though it's very dated I enjoyed reading about the couple as they evolved and changed. I am very glad I found it.
This is the first Pearl S. Buck story that I have read. As the title goes, it was a story that makes you feel good about marriage. I was in high school when I read this book, and that early I know then what I want in life, aside from a good career.
This was a great short novel that was an easy read but nice and literary. I have to admit that I started out very much not liking one of the main characters, but over time was able to appreciate the complexity Buck gave him.
I'm male, but I thoroughly enjoyed Buck's use of marriage from a woman's point of view to demonstrate human foible, the sensitivities of ego, and the maturation of a life. The story is plainly told, and an easy read, though I would classify it a literary work for its astute writing.
Beautiful!!What a work of art! So well defined, the characters held true throughout a 50 year marriage with all life threw at them. Truly a portrait of how marriage could be when the canvas is undying love and commitment.
Beautifully written novel look at the marriage of two people from very different lives. The author develops the characters so they have difficulty with their separate backgrounds and experiences, but true love and care are the center of the book.
Wonderful!This Authors talent lies in her ability to properly portray feelings and emotions in a myriad settings. I simply love all of her books!
Enjoyed reading this story by this renown author Pearl S. Buck.
Exactly what you would expect from Pearl S Buck. A lovely view into a slice of everyday life. Realistically portrays the ups and downs of life and the strength of family.
