https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/55990.Walden_Two
I have to say that I find it funny how often the user reviews call Walden Two "boring." I get as bored reading a philosophical treatise as the next person, but Walden Two is actually easy and engaging to read.
I mean, ok, it's not exactly a rollicking romp of a book - it's a conversational back -and-forth that celebrates living in a way that uses pragmatic and scientifically-grounded solutions to the problems of living in a society instead of adhering to a set of principles that are unlikely to result in a life that produces maximum happiness and satisfaction.
Yes, a woman may feel empowered and independent when she puts on makeup, but until she can walk into a job interview without makeup and have an equal shot at the position as a man would, is it truly free will?
Walden Two may not address all of these issues related to our society today, but the intellectual rigor of its contents calls on readers to connect its ideas to how we function in the contemporary world, unruly and awful president-elects and all.Overall, a decent read unless you want plot or character development.
Most characters, while having distinct viewpoints and personalities, are one-dimensional.
There is no discernible plot whatsoever.
The plot is the same as a virtual tour on an apartment website.
I was bored, despite the brisk pace.As a behavior analyst, this novel is almost pornographic.
This novel is Skinner's dreamworld, a perfect application of successful behavior analysis to a voluntary community of a variety of educated persons.
If you are a behavior analyst, you've probably read this already.If you are someone with a passing interest in aba and an open mind, give it a whirl.For anyone else, please, stay away.
Compared to them, Skinner was a breeze, his book a pleasure.Behaviorism began in Germany as a movement in psychology which eschewed occult inner states for testable, objective factors.
Everything we experience, whether or not primarily referred to public phenomena under ideal observational conditions, is public in the sense that its meaning and signification is accessible by reference to our shared languages, broadly defined to include all forms of semiotic and symbolic expression.
This is not to say that there is nothing more or less private, just that even our most private experiences gain whatever meaning they have by reference to the public phenomena of language.
Walden Two by B.F. Skinner is one of those books that you, at the same time, love and hate.
I have to say, I think I liked the book but the story telling was extremely formulaic, bland and just outright boring most of the time.
I still want to finish it but don't know if I can bring myself to do it.The story, which was written shortly after World War II, follows a college professor, and a group of unlikely companions, in modern (1950’s) America who end up touring a small rural commune for two weeks.
2.0 to 2.5 stars. Better as a review of Skinner's scientific theories than as an actual novel, this "utopian" novel deals with an experimental community based on solving problems via application of the scientific method. It has been a while since I read this and I may re-read this at some point to see if my opinion has changed.
I started out wondering why the professor (not going back to look up his name) was so hostile and testy towards Frazier, the architect behind the meant-to-be utopia, Walden Two. Some pages later, I wanted to punch him in the face myself.
You realise pretty early on that this is not a novel at all, but merely a framework for an odd philosophy, delivered as dialogue, and in the most patronising and self-righteous way.
When I started having more than one objection, reservation or question per sentence, I knew this work and I had to go separate ways.
It was required reading for a class, and I fully acknowledge that this "review" is basically just venting the resentment and bafflement that still lingers.Part of my ire is that Walden Two is presented as a novel (albeit blandly written with no care for depth of characters, emotions, or plot), and man, do I as a reader detest poorly-written fiction that's ultimately trying to argue something.
Being that I was a woman of color reading this in the year 2003, so much about this book felt irrelevant to the world I live in.
Walden Two depicts a society governed by these behaviourist principles — not a brave new world imagined by the likes of Orwell, Huxley and Bradbury — but a utopia encompassing the 'Good Life' sought after by philosophers as far back as Seneca.
This is but one of the myriad interesting ideas included in this account of what I can only take to be Skinner's dreams of a new, more functional take on Thoreau's social experiment, the original Walden.We are all accustomed to dystopia, but over to you, discover for yourself a utopia that will leave you immersed in reflection long into the early hours of the morning.
Frazier represents Skinner's behaviorist model-''And perhaps Skinner himself.' I added.'Yes, perhaps.' Jim said 'Anyway, Castle represents more conventional philosophical thought and he's constantly searching for holes in the Walden Two model, or ethical issues, or potential future problems and whatnot.
Castle's criticisms come of as petty and blind in the book.''Well, Skinner clearly believes in these ideas...' I said uncertainly, more to inject a little conversation than as a counterpoint.'Sure.
Ghandi was big on that idea.''Carl Sagan too.' Kara replied.'Oh yes.' Jim said.
Walden Two is a readable novel and Skinner makes several insightful points.''Just keep him away from the tea!' I said.
My psychology professor informed us that Skinner at first intended to be a writer.
I think the world is blessed in many ways that he changed his mind.
My review of the novel (one star) is due to judging it as a work of literature, which is how he wrote it.
Lots of very interesting, progressive, creative, and - best of all - feasible ideas.
He thought he could make a demonstration of the feasibility through literary exposition, and failed miserably.
There's actually a decent amount we could learn from his ideas, if only they weren't trapped inside atrocious writing.
Visgi, po grupinio kūdikių auginimo atskirose patalpėlėse, siekiant, kad jie neprisirištų prie vieno suaugusiojo, aprašymo knyga visai nebeatrodė utopiška.
Šiais laikais tiesiog neįtikėtina (atrodo, kad visi bent kiek psichologiškai apsišvietę suprantame, kaip svarbu kūdikiui prisirišti prie saugaus suaugusiojo), o ir tais laikais, kai knyga buvo rašyta, turbūt buvo keista.
Iš viso Voldeno gyvenimo aprašymo man labiausiai patiko darbų pasiskirstymas ir pastangos nepersidirbti.
"Bet, po galais, juk aišku, kad žmonės gali būti laimingi ir, "neturėdami, ko veikti" (citata).Nepaisant to, kad knygoje gyvenimą Antrojo Voldeno bendruomenėje bandoma pateikti kaip utopiją, skaitant į galvą ateina mintis iš kito nemirštančiai taiklaus kūrinio - "visgi vieni buvo lygesni už kitus".
boring, sexist and dated
I didn't inject a spoiler into my first paragraph mind you… the point -- and fun -- of this book is solely the exposition of "Walden Two's" outre social system.This book has three major shortcomings: first, as a shill rather than foil for a proposed social system, Skinner's antagonists throw only straw arguments (or no arguments) at the feet of his fictional utopian hosts.
Tough luck for them.Finally, no one can lay claim to mastery of all subject matter, and Skinner's utopian schemes suffer where he proposes reforms to practices about which he appears ignorant.
Walden Two earns four stars not for its literary value (it's not terribly well written or compelling only as a story), but for the thought provoking social science concepts it raises.
Intellectual stimulation earns it a place on my great books list.The concept of behavioral engineering is both repulsive and intriguing to me.
What I find interesting (and relieving) is that a community, Twin Oaks, exists that was founded on the principals of Walden Two. Twin Oaks, has however, abandoned the Skinner's behavioral engineering and instituted a form of democratic governance.
I remember liking this book in college and had to read it for a class I took. After reading it we had to write a term paper on what we considered a utopian society. Back in the early 70s I was interested in communes, but I doubt if any lasted due to problems within the commune. All I remember about this book is that the people changed their jobs from one day to the next so they wouldn't become bored.
Una novela que disfrutarás ya que se lee fácilmente pero que en contraste querrás volver a leer con mayor detenimiento.La recomiendo muchísimo.
Yo la leí por que uno de mis géneros literarios favoritos son las distopías y por ello pensé ¿por qué jamás he leído una utopía?
Y como llevaba tiempo pensando en lo extraño que era que se escribiera tan fácil sobre destrucción, maldad y egoísmo...
pues que contraste que te da.También en tema de utopía contra distopía recomiendo la película "Tomorrowland", aunque es una recomendación muy personal pero me gustó, aparte de que entra en el contexto de ¿por qué es tan fácil escribir sobre destrucción, maldad, etc.?
That means, of course that some men will have to take charge of others, which is a good reason to hop on the band wagon as soon as possible." (see That Hideous Strength.) Another person Frazier reminds me of is Elsworth Toohey.
That thesis, of course, is that choice, free will, and individualism are the necessary and related sources of all human progress, all human joy, all betterment of human life, all human life, and all humanity.
"We are only just beginning to understand the power of love because we are just beginning to understand the weakness of force and aggression."B.F. Skinner asks if you knew how to manipulate people into living in an ideal society, wouldn't you do it?
They are the backbone of a community—solid, trust-worthy, essential." Skinner argues hard for his scientific approach and claims that his invented society is egalitarian about race and gender.
. "Skinner's utopian vision, then, was not about any of Walden Two's practices, except one: experimentation.
Other things we like--we want them to happen, and we take stepts to make them happen again.
Still other things we don't like__we don't want them to happen and we take steps to get rid of them or keep them from happening again.
if it's in our power to create any of the situtions which a person likes or to remove any situation he doesn't like, we can control his behavior.
When he behaves as we want him to behave, we simply create a situation he likes, or remove one he doesn't like.
. It is a conceptual (do you think Skinner would cringe at that word?) experiment, inspired by its authors concerns regarding his Zeitgeist, attempting to apply the principles of behavioral analysis in order to make the world a better place.
Different ambition to that most writers bear, but equally grand regardless.A Skinner’s child to the bone, I enjoyed Walden II and the quirks of its author.
I think it is a thought-provoking text, in spite its clumsiness that will surely offer a better understanding to the science’s students, especially if you have a vague understanding of behaviorism.You won’t find yourself mesmerized by the prose -at times it will be boring- and sometimes you’ll even disagree.
Walden Two was assigned to me by a professor who apparently thought Skinner's extremely half-baked notions of what would be a great society to live in had some value to us.
I guess they did, because I had a great time writing as furiously sarcastic a review as I could (which I unfortunately can't find), but throughout the book I was astonished that a guy who clearly must have some brains, and who had devoted his life to the study of how people behave, could be so clueless about how they actually act.
A fictional outline of Skinner's ideal utopian society.
The characters are all very flat, and it is obvious that Skinner is using the story only as a vehicle to present his theories of social reform.
Nonetheless, those ideas in themselves were interesting enough to hold my attention despite the mediocre writing.
It is considered controversial because it espouses 'behavioral engineering' in a non-democratic societal arrangement.
However, Skinner's arguments and examples are convincing and thought-provoking; anyone who has read it cannot seriously contend that Skinner is arguing for mind-control under a dictatorship.
A major theme focuses on evaluating current cultural habits/practices on their effectiveness and efficiency and presenting a more effective and efficient substitute.
As a novel, this is not a wonderfully written book. But as a fictional expansion on B. F. Skinner's idea of a utopian society, it is extremely interesting and extremely important. Skinner lays out his idea of a world in which all behavior is guided by clearly stated reinforcement. Skinner makes the point in his writings, that we are all completely controlled by our world of reinforcement and punishment, but that we like to imagine that we have free will. This books lays out that thinking in a novel format.I very much enjoyed it.
This book was amazing. I was completely seduced by the idea of behavioral engineering and I was ready to move into Walden Two after finishing it! The discussion of free will at the end was fun. I learned lots afterwards reading critiques of skinner's ideas by chomsky and others.While I doubt the ideas would work in practice, the way of life presented in this story is what techonology SHOULD be used for: giving us more free time to pursue the things we want!
Es increíblemente aburrido, está horriblemente mal escrito y su filosofía subyacente es una porquería. Pero hay algo a favor de Skinner y es que es muy listo. En unos párrafos del libro le hace guiños al marxismo y al progresismo en general, y los aludidos caen como panchitos. La prueba es que el libro es más querido en foros progresistas que en psicológicos.
B. F. Skinner? More like B.F. Skin me alive because this thinly veiled "novel" is a rambling waste of time. By the end I decided I would have rather read anthem by ayn Rand six times over instead, and that is by no means a compliment.
Galvojau, kad daug kas šioje knygoje ideologiškai nepatiks. Ir skaičiau labiau iš smalsumo. Ir vis gi - patiko! Knyga įtraukianti nuo pirmo puslapio. Kai kas buvo naujo, kai kas buvo tai ką jaučiau, tik niekada nedrįsau sau to pripažinti. :)
The book is a little slow, and is purely dialog between the characters, which, to someone not a student of Psychology, could be entirely boring.
For me, it was an interesting, almost allegorical read on behavioral psychology of which Skinner was a pioneer.
In terms of being "dystopian", I would not label it as such, but could easily see it being the origin story of a dystopian sequel.
It's worth a quick read if it crosses your path, but wouldn't recommend going out of your way unless you're particularly geeky about psychology or dystopian lit.
In this book are some of the most startling thoughts I've ever encountered. It's truly a book which gets you wondering. I finished reading it a week ago but its ideas are still linger in my head.
