https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/818372.Night_Probe_
Seriously, Clive, where have you been all my life?“Night Probe!” is the third Cussler novel I have ever read, and it’s the sixth to feature his beloved action hero, Dirk Pitt.
The U.S. is already facing a major oil shortage and skyrocketing oil prices, so Quebec’s secession could result in an economic disaster.When the President of the United States discovers that the North American Treaty was, essentially, a bill of sale negotiated between President Woodrow Wilson and King George of England to sell Canada in its entirety to the U.S. for one billion dollars of 1914 money, Pitt and his team at the National Underwater and Marine Agency (NUMA) are immediately called in to retrieve the North American Treaty from one or both wrecks, if possible.Hot on Pitt’s trail, of course, is Shaw and a psychotic Canadian mountie improbably and sadly named Floss Gly. The clock is ticking...As ridiculous as the plot sounds, Cussler makes it seem believable.
(view spoiler)[I liked the author's referencing James Bond throughout the book (including having his name changed to 'Brian Shaw' and referencing the 'one time' when he was actually married but his wife died shortly thereafter).
I am not sure how much Heidi develops as a character; she seems to play more of a 'second fiddle' to keep the story moving (view spoiler)[as she "habitually" inadvertently passes information to the British via her liaisons with Brian Shaw despite his regularly betraying her trust and confidence (hide spoiler)].
Povero treno!
In May 1914 two couriers disappear in twin disasters taking the only two copies of the North American Treaty with them.
The race is on to rescue one copy of the treaty from the bottom of the ocean.
I have a soft spot for Dirk Pitt even though these books can get really over the top sometimes.
This book is my favorite of the series because part of it is set in the village where I was living at the time.
We wrote to Clive Cussler and he replied "Don't believe everything you read" saying that he had made up every single bit of historical background in the book.
I've read all of the Dirk Pitt books (except perhaps some of the newest ones) and this definitely ranks as one of my favorites.In my opinion, Night Probe (pub.
1981) is the best of Dirk Pitt's earlier novel and byy earlier, I mean before books set before Treasure...
for no particular reason except I feel that by Treasure, the tone and style of the novels has shifted more to his contemporary style.I re-read Night Probe!
It is definitely one of the best Dirk Pitt novels out there.The only reason I started reading Dirk Pitt was because my Dad has been a fan of the Clive Cussler series since the publication of "Raise the Titanic!" These are comfortable, entertaining and exciting reads.
Dirk does it again, folks. The superhuman stamina and luck Cussler gives this guy always overwhelms me. I would never have accused either of them of having romantic tendencies, but the wonderful ending of Night Probe! (why does he end every title with an exclamation point?) proved me wrong. This is the best novel in the series so far.
(hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[ We discover in this novel that the British sold Canada to the United States for the sum of one billion dollars, but the treaties were lost due to horrible accidents.
One would think after having been burnt by Shaw Heidi would be on her guard around this guy, but he seduces her a second time and AGAIN gets top-secret information out of her through the seduction.
This is one of the few times where Dirk does not get the girl [or have the girl in his arms] at the end of the book.
Excellent adventure tale as Pitt tries to salvage a missing train and a passenger liner to find a treaty ceding Canada to the USA. British agents battle against him and there are lots of good action sequences. All in all a good engaging thriller.
I have read all but the last two Pitt books—and am rereading them now—so while the details aren’t remembered, I at least know what I’m going to get: a fast read, a great adventure with beautiful women and fast cars, extremely unlikely escapes, coincidences that strain credibility, but I get to the end exhilarated and having enjoyed myself.This time, the story starts in 1914, before World War I begins.
Meanwhile, an American envoy with another important piece of paper is on the Manhattan Limited, a train headed back down the Hudson towards Washington during a storm when a bridge spanning the river collapses and the train disappears.In future times (for the book anyway—1989), the United States is having a financial crisis and the President is considering defaulting on all of the nation’s debts.

This is a superb example of Cussler's oeuvre. It has action, great scenes, suspense and even a homage to James Bond.Although Raise the Titanic broke Cussler into superstardom, this book was, to this reader, his best.Nowadays with his co-written books on the best seller list monthly, its a good idea to go back and read the books that got him there.
In 1914 the United States, Canada, and Britain sign a secret treaty selling Canada to the United States. When two couriers carrying copies of the treaty disappear a cover up takes place. Decades later when world energy supplies dwindle, the American president renews efforts to find and enforce the treaty despite the efforts of both the British and a radical French-Canadian group.
It had a lot of action. I thought that it was very good. Clive Cussler does a very good job at writing the Dirk Pitt collection. In this book Dirk has to find a treaty that has been buried in the sea for a long time, but the British don't want him to.
This Dirk Pitt adventure was a dangerous one for our hero. With a high body count, corrupt politician's (imagine that?), and a retired British spy called back in to service. This had the feel of a spy novel, with the action of a Pitt novel. Fun read.
James Bond meets Dirk Pitt. No seriously there is James bond in this novel by Clive Cussler.
I just love these books. Dirk Pitt is one of my favorite characters. These books just keep getting better
Before the Treaty comes into force the two copies of the document were lost to time, after Harvey Shields traveling in Empress of Ireland collided with a coal collier sinks and subsequently another copy of the document with Richard Essex, traveling in Manhattan Limited train falls from the Deauville-Hudson bridge killing everyone.
In the final pages Pitt mentions to Brain, that James Bond will be proud of Shaw and they were quite close.Like other novel I noticed some one liners of Pitt which I want to quote:Dirk Pitt conversing about North American Treaty with the President of United States, before they part the President asks Pitt.And you, Mr.Pitt, would you agree?Pitt closed his briefcase and stood up.
The sequence of events were too unbelievable to be enjoyable. Results way to convenient.
A real page turner. My first Cussler novel. I picked it off the shelf at our old cabin and ended up ignoring my kids all weekend (they weren't too happy with me :) It must take some special talents to write books like these that you simply can't put down.
Planes, trains, and automobiles may have been a favorite of Cussler's having read through many of his books. I'm reading through several of his series (Pitt, Fargo, Oregon, and Bell) and have begun to notice the great love he has for the aforementioned vehicles.This book is again another exciting book in the Dirk Pitt series. Has some of the typical plot lines but also some twists that are not easily predicted.
So although Night Probe came out eight years after Pitt debuted, it's only the fifth Pitt adventure and we can see Cussler still working on his storytelling groove.Set in 1989, seven years after the publication date, we find a United States on the verge of economic collapse because of the depletion of Middle Eastern oil supplies and the lack of native-generated alternatives.
Almost a quarter of the nation depends on power generated by a massive Canadian hydroelectric plant, but Canada faces the possibility of Quebec seceding from the nation and causing the kind of chaos a precariously-balanced situation doesn't need.Into the mix comes US Navy officer and researcher Heidi Milligan, who has found evidence of a mysterious U.S.- Great Britain "North American Treaty" from 1914 that seems to have disappeared from all public record.
My Rating Scale:1 Star - Horrible book, It was so bad I stopped reading it.
I have not read the whole book and wont2 Star - Bad book, I forced myself to finish it and do NOT recommend.
I can't believe I read it once3 Star - Average book, Was entertaining but nothing special.
No plans to ever re-read4 Star - Good Book, Was a really good book and I would recommend.
I am Likely to re-read this book5 Star - GREAT book, A great story and well written.
I have to say Dirk Pitt is one of my favorite characters in a book series.
Published in 1981, this series entry takes place in the near future of 1989 after a 1914 prologue."Dirk Pitt series - May, 1914.
Two undercover couriers plummet to watery deaths in twin disasters, taking with them the only two copies of the North American Treaty, a precedent-shattering secret pact between the United States and Great Britain.
For the United States, possession of this document is suddenly worth billions.
But to Great Britain, it’s worth a war.
The only American for such a mission is Dirk Pitt, who proved invincible in Raise the Titanic (1976)!"
Okay...I'm Vegas at the Hard Rock Hotel.
(Actually, I was going to visit a friend, but he was at a meeting...and in case you don't know, pool areas in Vegas that have swim-up gambling are open to the public.
Seriously.) And I start giggling uncontrollably.
The tackiness of the pool area and people there?
It's a Dirk Pitt novel I've somehow missed, and it's one of the most over the top and silly ones of all.
Dirk Pitt ends up handing off his old flame to an aging--but still quite randy, apparently--James Bond at the end of the novel.
I found this book by Clive Cussler a little difficult to follow. I do appreciate that the story took place in my home province of Quebec, Canada so I looked forward to reading it. At the time it was written, the issue of separation was on many peoples mind and it was made an important part of the story. If the outcome was Clive Cussler’s forecast of the future, he was very wrong. I think this book could have been classified in the alternate history genre.
This was the very first Clive Cussler book I ever read cover-to-cover, back in 1986 at the tender age of 10. Read it a second time at the age of 28, and now for the third time at the age of 38. The book, classic old-school Cussler, hasn't lost its magic; both the regular characters like Dirt Pitt and Al Giordino, and the guest characters like the lovely Commander Heidi Milligan, the diabolical Foss Gly, and the suave British MI6 agent James Bo--er, Brian Shaw, are among the most memorable of any Cussler novel.
This one was a little too cloak and dagger for my tastes. And Dirk Pitt didn't even enter the story (except for a brief one night stand) until 100 pages in. I did love the conspiracy and how Dirk figured it all out. A thrilling read once Numa and Pitt entered the story. I did have issues with the "heroines" sleeping habits but that's on me and not the story itself (without it things wouldn't have gone as planned). I think later books in the series are better written and more enjoyable.
Superb suspense! This is one of the best in the Dirk Pitt series, and I really think you should stop reading this rubbish review and get this book.I've read nearly all of the Pitt books now (missing a few later ones), and I think this and Vixen 03 are the best. I love the ending here, and the suspense around the train.Cussler really starts to hit you with his surprise endings around this book, a great formula he'd follow for some time to come.Pick this up...now!
The best Cussler novel I've read to date. A novel of "alternate" and "secret" history, that encompasses numerous story lines that intermingle with each other throughout. Pitt, Cussler's main character, does not appear meaningfully until well into the story, a change from Cussler's normal style from what I've read so far from him. I would recommend this to any Cussler fan and would recommend this as the one to read for a non-Cussler fan.
Clive Cussler is a great writer! Although I’ve only read three of his books (all of which were about Dirk Pitt) his writing style is great he provides enough information when needed and always seem to find a way to bring pleasure to readers through expected and unexpected plot twists. His characters and their different personalities can bring variety to the mix. I love the suspense of how no matter how much Dirk finds out his antagonist is not far behind.
