https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/82798.Daddy
OK so when I was in high school my girlfriend was very into Danielle Steel, to the same extent that I was into Stephen King. And my girlfriend also read a few Stephen King books, so somehow she convinced me that it was "only fair" that I read a Danielle Steel novel. She recommended "Daddy" because it had a male protagonist.What I learned from this book was that one Danielle Steel novel is enough.
I've read this. I didn't bring another DS with me, so I'll read another short Rosamunde Pilcher. My new holiday fave <3But how will I get through my 100+ pile of DS novels if I don't read them in summer?!
وكيف سيتأقلم الاب والاولاد مع هذا التغيير الكبير في حياتهم.في بداية فصول الكتاب شعرت بتعاطف كبير جدا" مع الأم واحسست بما كانت تفكر لأنه تفكير أغلب الموظفات خصوصا" من كان يحب عمله واضطر لتركه بسبب انجاب الاطفال لكن طريقة تركها للأطفال والتنصل من كل عاطفة بين ليلة وضحاها وكذلك اقامتها علاقات عاطفية فور تركها لهم جعلتني اشكك في هدفها للسعي وراء طموحها وبالتالي احتقارها.شخصية الأب واخلاصه لزوجته مدة طويلة حتى بعد ان تركته وطريقة معاملته لأولادة اعجبتني واكاد اجزم انها افضل شخصية ابوية قرأت عنها في القصص لحد الان بالنسبة ليصراحة لا اعرف كيف أصف شعوري تجاه هذا الكتاب , ففي اوقات احسست بأن الموضوع المطروح دسم والشخصيات مدروسة وفي اماكن لم تكن هناك حبكة على الاطلاق مجرد احداث عابرة لا اهمية لها.لكن النهاية السعيدة كانت كفيلة بأسعادي والا لكان تقييمي اقل.بالنهاية قد اعود لقراءة كتب دانيال ستيل لاحقا" ولكني لست على عجل لانها لم تبهرني كثيرا"هذا الكتاب انصح به محبي الروايات الاجتماعية العائلية
This is the worst book I've ever read in my entire life. I had to finish it to see how it would end and MAN, it did not disappoint. Just the worst.
روايات دانيال ستيل أفلام خفيفه جداً تقرأ في إستراحة مستشفى في الطائرة شيء خفيف عن الحياة اليومية لشخ
This book was good but very predictable. I didn't like how the mom Sarah was a major character in the beginning and the first few chapters were from her point of view and then when she leaves the family, her character is basically gone form the book. It then picks up and has to rebuld characters again with the other family members. It was good, a great pool read but too predictable.
Loved it when I read it....have grown over such books but the story is very heart breaking...i remember having tears in my eyes
Another awesome book by an awesome Author!!!
This is the book that got me hooked on reading. I had never been a reader until a friend introduced me to this book. LOVED LOVED IT.
Loved this book! Don't really know how to explain it. Lets just say it starts off with Ollie's wife Sarah going back to school. They both start to drift apart. Recommended to anyone who likes a lot of drama.
The characters helped keep things afloat; the protagonist, "Daddy", "Oliver" was a man easy to understand.
We start right at the beginning with the thoughts of abandonment brewing in Sarah's unhappy head, and by the third chapter everyone's life has been effectively turned upside down and gone topsy turvy.The back cover blurb mentions three lives hanging in the wind here, but they doesn't grow confusing, as it mainly still leaned on Oliver's handling of their situations.
This is the painfully long story of a man who talked his wife out of three abortions and then got stuck with the kids.
An indictment both of daddies, who work until 9:00 p.m. and have live-in maids and have big paychecks but no knowledge of their kids having sex lives or hopes and dreams or bedwetting issues, and of mommies, who, gasp, sometimes put themselves first, although those who do have to go to funerals.
The mom, trapped in a rich and sexy but male-dominated marriage, seemed to try to get a life but blamed Dad for her not ever pursuing her dreams.
I didn't want to read this book.
In any case, I just wasn't interested.
But this was our book club pick for this month, so I jumped in and started reading.
There are real life issues in this story - real life sorrows and pain and drama.
I wasn't too impressed with the ending, as I felt it lacked the reality that had been present up to then, but endings often disappoint me.
But this was a gripping, moving story and I highly recommend it.
[BTW -- those who read this book may fall into 1 of 2 camps: Team Oliver or Team Sarah.
This is one of Steel's better books.
Their are characters you love and hate.
And by hate, I mean Sarah who was nothing but a selfish biatchhh.
I loved Oliver as the main character, even if at times I didn't agree with how he handled some situations, like with his son and his baby.
His kids were cute and likeable and the romances in the book were handled well, even if the last one happened super fast but I will let that slide as it is a chick-lit book.
If you're looking for somewhere to start with Steel, you wouldn't go wrong picking this one.
Daddy by Danielle SteelThis book is about George, Oliver and Benjamin, 3 generations of one family, are all learning to cope with their struggles in life.Their spouses: one is dying, another is heading off to college and one is expecting a baby.Moments of joy and some tragedies as the twists and turns in this book leave you wondering what will happen next to each of them.Lots of travel and much more loving.I received this book from National Library Service for my BARD (Braille Audio Reading Device).
ع قد ما كنت أحب روايات دانييل ستيل ل فترة على قد ما أكرهها الحينتحس قلبك يتفتت مع آخر الرواية وليه الحب ما ينتصر بالأخير ما أعرف بس دايماً تخلي الوحدة تتخلى عن زوجها وأولادها وما أعرف إذا هذا له علاقة ب حياتهاالشخصية انه ما غير تتزوج وتطلق :)؟ المهم إنه خلاص ما بقرا رواياتها الا اذا انا يائسة ما عندي شي اقراه هيت يو داننيل :(
this is the only book by the author i've read,and that doesnt make feel like worshipping her.lol. its one emotional piece about dads(hey,u guys rock!!!:D) and oh,bdw,that mom is a bitch. simply put,a great piece!
التضحية أمر رائع و أكثر من ذلك ..، ان تتخلى عن احلامك لأجل الأشخاص الذي يحبونك .., و لكن من رأي ان من السهل تحقيق الاثنين ، لم تعجبني النهاية على الرغم من انها سعيدة.، و بالمناسبة شخصية أوليفر أنانية و ليست زوجته أو حبيبته .
Really loved this story....it's not all the time you find the roles of teenage parenting reversed but I think this story was written to just perfection. I remember watching the movie on Lifetime and thinking that it was just outstanding.
- سوْفَ تواجهك الحياه بالعديد من المشاكل بنىّ ، و الواقع أنّ ما تفعله بهذه المشاكل ، هوَ ما يجعلك رجلاً أو يحطّمك !
Relationship between a daughter and her father
Absolutely love this book. Brought tears to my eyes reading it.
This is another book that I've always loved and read many times.
Esta decisión trastocará la vida de una familia que parecía ser perfecta, porque afectará de distintas maneras a Oliver y sus tres hijos: Benjamin, Melisa, y Sam Watson.esto provoca que cada uno tenga que enfrentar sus propios problemas: ben, que era el mayor, con 17 años y a punto de ser aceptado en alguna universidad importante, empieza a descuidar sus estudios y a salir con una chica; Mel, encerrada en su mundo hablando con sus amistades y tratando de evadirse en los ensayos de teatro, y sam, que busca afecto y protección, queriendo siempre dormir con Olli.Danielle steel nos aborda en Querido papá justamente eso, el valor de la familia y de cómo un padre de familia tiene que ser madre y padre a partir de ese momento, mientras cumple su labor como proveedor del hogar, y al mismo tiempo buscar la manera de educar y pasar tiempo con sus hijos.
I forced my self to read it because I told myself that I would open my reading selection.
Danielle Steel is a well-known author and this was one of her top books, therefore it was logical it would be a bearable read.
Sadly, this book had my brain utterly confused, I had to read some sections over and over because I could not tell who was narrating the story.
The story was told by a character then went to another character without transitions.
I would have to put the book down and return to it.
Why did I force myself to read it?
Second try at Danielle Steel and no, just no.
No, it should be WAY trashier and be 100% less moralizing about good vs.
bad women--good women stay home and take care of the kids, eschew their career dreams for a house and home, put their man first.
Bad women are shot, die of cancer, have their new boyfriends die in horrific car crashes (clearly I'm drawing from Safe Harbor, the other book by her I read, too).
There is like no sex and lots of children being scarred forever by women with a smidgen of self.
Worst novel I have read in a while.
I picked it up as a quick read while on a trip.
It was a quick read and a very boring one.
Very uninteresting story that woke up the feminism in me, I did not even know exist.
And make me so angry against the male protagonist which I do not think was the intention of the novel.
in the novel I felt any empathy towards him.
Basically it’s a story of 3 “daddies” who at some pt.
are in a difficult state in their respective lives, because you know things do not always go as planned.(Shocking !) and that’s pretty much it.
really like Oliver and his children.
Sarah is such a selfish cow and Oliver is better off without her.
Charlotte and Oliver really suit each other and I am glad they got together in the end.
such a lovely story and Patrick Duffy and Lynda Carter who play Oliver and Charlotte in te film go well together and I watch this film all the time Danielle Steel writes very well and I have read a few of her books I mean to read every one which will take a bit of time but she is a good writer and I suspect a bit of a romantic herself
I can't find the right words to describe this novel...There's something different about man's tears that it touch the heart, especially dads.
At first, the book wasn't anything special, maybe because I wasn't fond of Sarah's points.
But as I go on, I can hardly put the book down as Oliver (daddy) takes the spot.
I admit, matters about family touch me but not trying to be bias in a sense, this book is really a count.
I don't know how fond Steel is tingling our emotions with her stories of life, which she always does - with this book being one of her best.
I picked this book from hotel book shelf to kill time during holidays.
This initial plot twist made me angry.
What is so wrong about the woman who wants to go back to school (that is like 2-3h away??) after being a good mother for so many years?
I understand the worry about 7year old kid, but teenagers?
I do not understand why her supposingly loving husband even do not try to support her.
The rest of the story is more twisted, but this initial sequence made me not like this book at all.
I wonder if it has anything to do with times when it was written?
