https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/979284.The_Morning_of_the_Magicians
An all time favorite.
Great reading for those interested in the connections between filosofie, religion, spirituality and the past and future of humankind.
Well researched, documented and written by men who know their field.
This book got me interested in mysticism and thought me to think outside the box and to feel free to switch from science to pseudo-science and that that was ok.
These writers thought me that real intelligence lies in being able to think further than is allowed.
Not to be afraid to "believe", not to fear intellectual rejection and snobisme and that real insight is a reward for intellectual flexibility.
And I can guarantee you, since if you've even heard of this book at this point in time you, too, are probably a fan of Nazi Zombie movies, the quote above is the only part of the book you need to read.After a relatively brief introduction that acquaints us with some of the foundations of Pauwels and Bergier's thinking (and an intro, of course, to the work of Charles Fort), the book is divided into two sections, which had the authors been a bit less flowery could have been entitled “The Past” and “The Future”.
The book is able to cover virtually every topic from atomic energy, to secret societies of alchemists, to the influence of the occult upon Hitler, to parapsychology and consciousness, and finally to the upcoming superman - a mutant capable of astounding intellectual feats.
Bizarre theories are considered: Horbiger's theory of "eternal ice" (and it's influence on Hitler), Teed's theory that we live on the concave inner surface of a hollow earth, theories to explain the origins of civilization, the work of the alchemists and their possible knowledge of atomic physics, theories regarding mutation of the human species, and theories propounding alternative origins for life on this planet.
The Morning of the Magicians (as well as the piece of fantastic pseudo-history garbage The Spear of Destiny) played a major role in promoting the myths in regards to National Socialism being drive by dark Occult forces.
The difference between The Morning of the Magicians and The Spear of Destiny is the first book is actually believably readable.
One can only assume that Mr. Bergier was a little biased when writing The Morning of the Magicians, his butt-love for Albert Einstein is more than obvious.
The book also has a strong strain of mysticism and spiritual impulse that I can say I often share with the author as well.
The author writing only a decade and a half from the Cratering ruins of the second world war like many Europeans was attempting to make sense of a world after the camps and the bomb and human destiny and our place in the cosmic picture.
This book was one of the inspirations of the counterculture of the sixties but is deeply informed by the cataclysms of the first half of the century.
A classic of conspiracist lunacy. Influencing everything from Robert Anton Wilson's Illuminatus! to The X-Files, this book has left its distinctive mark on just about everything that followed it. Bizarre occult Nazi activities, Blavatsky's Ascended Masters and the secret masonic symbolism of Gothic cathedrals are just a few of the threads tied together in this book's attempt at a unified field theory of hidden trends in Western history. Take it with a grain of salt-- but as an exercise in creating an alternate worldview, this book can be highly entertaining.
Spero che in futuro qualcuno riesca a scrivere di nuovo un libro come questo, ovvero un libro che candidamente - barbaramente, direbbero gli autori - propugni un nuovo modo di pensare e quindi di agire, perché un'idea che non diventa parola non è una buona idea e una parola che non diventa azione non è una buona parola. E perché nonostante siano passati più di cinquant'anni, la tenaglia di una logica binaria e tutti i pregiudizi figli di visioni dualistiche fossilizzate (razionalismo vs. spiritu
Spero che in futuro qualcuno riesca a scrivere di nuovo un libro come questo, ovvero un libro che candidamente ­- barbaramente, direbbero gli autori - propugni un nuovo modo di pensare e quindi di agire, perché un'idea che non diventa parola non è una buona idea e una parola che non diventa azione non è una buona parola.
E perché nonostante siano passati più di cinquant'anni, la tenaglia di una logica binaria e tutti i pregiudizi figli di visioni dualistiche fossilizzate (razionalismo vs.
Riusciamo ancora a dare un senso a una frase come questa: "Più capisco, più amo, perché tutto ciò che è capito è bene"?

Weird book. Completely bogus, vaguely or maybe pre-New Age story-telling about supposedly true events in the paranormal/mystical world we live in. Incas encountering UFOs bearing nuclear weapons... basically a reflection on marginal science that was surely influenced by the psychedelic era. All the same, it's kind of an interesting, "creative" read even if you you have to take it with a heaping pile of salt.I found this book in my mom's library. For her, I'm told, books like this were more than enough to satisfy the "mind-bending" experiences her peers were finding through drugs.Books are my family's anti-drug.
I first read this book in its first American paperback English translation. It introduced me to many things that have since become "mainstream," the connections of Nazi Germany to occultism, the writings of the American collector of unexplained events, Charles Fort, the deeper concepts behind Alchemy, and the precepts of Fantastic Realism in general..."Only the Fantastic is real." It was an eye-opener of a book, and rereading it now, it still is. If you have any interest in the fantastic or the hidden history of the world, give it a try. I think you'll enjoy it.
God knows how to classify this popular melange of rumor, history and invention about the weird, the sinister and the occult. I read it as a teenager and was immensely entertained by its tales of Nazi pseudoscience, secret societies and age-old conspiracies. Now, having read so much of this stuff, I'd be more likely to recognize the sources and, so, be less impressed.
This was just not my cup of tea.
Perhaps it is that I am not destined to become an 'Awakened man'.
Or is it that this poor review is really camouflage to ensure that I am not identified as a superior 'mutant'There was some nice illustrations, anecdotes providing a form of validation of men having super consciousness (Ramanujan, Cayce, Boscovitch).
I will probably look into these guys further, so this was a positive.
The book also touched on a few of the ancient civilisations.
'Tiahuanaco' in Bolivian sounds out of this world (pretty much what the writer was intending) and is now on my ever growing bucket list of places to visit.
This book is a mind blower!
Mi dispiace dare due stelle data la mole documentale e lo sforzo degli autori di raccogliere tutti i dati letterari, storici, scientifici, etc etc ma il libro è oggi oggettivamente un reperto fuori tempo massimo, verosimile nei dubbi che poneva (o meglio nel lasciare aperta la porta alla possibilità di una realtà diversa) nella prima metà del secolo ma non oggi.
peccato che dopo pochi anni sia arrivata la relatività, la fisica quantistica e altro a rivoluzionare il pensiero e la consapevolezza di quello che c'era ancora da capire.
The writers combined knowledge and information from various fields as of science as of other religious and spiritual traditions.
The balance of writers in strange fields of knowledge drove them to make known unknown at that time authors as were Arthur Machen and Charles Fort.
Essentially they created a movement and not only a way of thinking, which found huge impact on people who were seeking outlets in a time of great questioning of the possibility for proper social use of the scientific achievements.
Il n’est pas dit enfin que la constitution de cet êtrecollectif soit le terme ultime de l’évolution.
L’esprit de laTerre, l’âme du vivant n’ont pas fini d’émerger.
Lespessimistes, devant les grands bouleversements visiblesque produit cette secrète émergence, disent qu’il faut aumoins tenter de « sauver l’homme ».
Mais cet homme n’estpas à sauver, il est à changer.
L’homme de la psychologieclassique et des philosophies en cours est déjà dépassé,condamné à l’inadaptation.
Mutation ou non, c’est un autrehomme que celui-ci qu’il convient d’entrevoir pour ajuster lephénomène humain au destin en marche.
Dès lors, il n’estquestion ni de pessimisme, ni d’optimisme : il est questiond’amour.
Los trenes, las industrias, la electricidad y los cigarrillos: celulares e internet, el ipod y los concejos para dejar el cigarrillo cancerígeno; dos guerras mundiales, y una guerra fría, indómita y paranoica.Corrían entonces los años 60, la gran cortina dividía el mundo entre unos y otros, pero la ciencia seguía siendo la herramienta preferida de todos.
El libro había surgido de aquellas charlas, de los documentos recolectados por Bergier a lo largo de una vida relacionada al misterio, las ciencias y el espionaje (trabajó para la Resistencia Francesa durante la Segunda Guerra Mundial) y de la redacción incansable de Pauwels.
When I was a kid, this was THE book to read. So many unexplained mysteries and Pauwels seemed to touch on them all. I recently reread the book, and even after all this time it's still fascinating. Nice to see the book spanning generations.
One of my all-time favorites. One of the deepest, most intelligent books ever written on ancient mysteries and paranormal phenomena. I've read it some three times I guess and I'm sure I'll read it again in the future
700 pages de blabla de recherches pour définir l'état d'éveil. Trop d'infos sans fondements et totalement inutiles. A remettre dans le contexte des années 60 cependant.
this is the big illuminati picture behind the nazis - and I think if we read this in the context of 21st century e.g. david icke or matt delooze we would stop watching phoney war films.
Oggi, a meno di non essere particolarmente ingenui o disinformati, è chiaro che gli eventuali benefici del progresso andranno a vantaggio di una minoranza danarosa e che il resto dell'umanità conoscerà tempi durissimi, quand'anche non si estinguesse a causa dei disastri ambientali provocati dal "progresso" stesso.Nonostante questi limiti, resta comunque un libro ricco di spunti, soprattutto nelle parti sull'alchimia e sugli antichi testi che sembrano testimoniare nei nostri avi conoscenze scientifiche assai più avanzate di quanto oggi si pensi.
In sostanza, se prendete questa lettura come una piacevole conversazione sul tema del fantastico nel reale o realismo fantastico, preparandovi a saltare da un argomento all'altro, tra storia, letteratura, scienza e fantascienza, vi divertirete di sicuro.
I had mostly just thought to give The Morning of the Magicians a one-star rating and move on.
Stuff like that.) However, inside the brutal stupidity that is most of the book are two interesting parts.First, Pauwels suggests that a being of superhuman intelligence wouldn't need to hide.
Combined with a long section on alchemy, it's very much like the Marvel Universe - where magicians, psychics, and mutants fight Nazi evildoers and dark powers.
Plus, when not talking about Nazi mysticism, Pauwels repeats himself ad nauseum.On the other hand, damn, that part about Hitler and Himmler is smoking hot horror goodness.
They detest astrology, for instance, but pretty much the rest of the field of esoteric thought is their playground, along with the exciting world of sub-atomic physics and an impressive range of fantastic literature.
I read this book because of its influence on popular culture in the 60s and 70s and I can certainly see the appeal it must have had.
They are also concerned with the networks of human mutants that may be living among us with goals not necessarily compatible with those of Homo sapiens.The book has, of course, been debunked many times and, when it's referenced today, it is usually to cite its numerous errors in fact and its fanciful interpretations of those misstated facts.
Found in my parents' library (none of them ever read it) it intrigued me for being the book that started all that (mostly wannabe) scientific hunt for "ancient aliens" (Däniken) and similar stuff back in the 60's.
Authors themselves admit "they may have included a lot of nonsense" but it just seems to me like an insufficient excuse for adding sensational unverified information to this kind of book.In conclusion it's an interesting and thought-provoking book that has a lot to say even now.
One just have to retain a critical approach to the facts and theories included.
A pretty decent look into occultist history with the Nazi's and their alternative take on science, however reading this book 60 years after it is published, there are a lot of French references that flew right over my head and historical events from the 19th century that needed subtext/footnotes for a common reader to jump right into. Lot's of references to the scientific elite and old studies that seemed out of place, as if the book were a bunch of little essays with little cohesion. Picked it up for 10 cents, it was worth it.
Hay que entender un poco de filosofía, historia, procesos sociales y darle sentido global a este libro para poder comprenderlo mejor. En resumen es una exposicion filosofica espacio tiempo donde aprenderas de los diferentes procesos de la historia. El entender que todo en esta vida es un proceso cyclico nos debe llenar de orgullo y satisfación, porque atraves de lecturas como esta creces a puntos exponenciales y retas a tu mentes.
While it really offers no answers or conclusions to the questions it poses, this is a great book. Born of the horrible tragedies of World War II, it attempts to look at where humanity has been and where it is headed, using the undercurrents of forbidden thought and secret societies as guideposts. Just as intriguing on my second reading.
Tremenda lectura. Una verdadera apología al misterio y referencias inéditas sobre sujetos increíbles que pocos conocen.
This felt like the book version of that meme where there's a guy saying "I'm not saying it was aliens... But it definitely was aliens".
