https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10831949-eskimo-folk-tales
Despite the occasionally clunky translation, a fascinating look into the minds of a hardy people living in conditions few of us can imagine.
PARTIAL READING/STORY RATINGS (2.5 * total)The Coming of Men (GOOD)A Long, Long While Ago (DONT REMEMBER)Nukúnguasik, who Escaped from the Tupilak(CONFUSING)The Woman Who Had a Bear as a Foster-Son (GOOD)Qalagánguasê, Who Passed to the Land of Ghosts (GOOD)Isigâligârssik (GOOD)The Insects that Wooed a Wifeless Man (CONFUSING)Makíte (BAD)Atungait, Who Went A-Wandering (CONFUSING)The Giant Dog (GOOD)Papik, Who Killed His Wife's Brother (BORING)Pâtussorssuaq, Who Killed His Uncle (OKAY)The Wife Who Lied (GOOD)The Eagle and the Whale (BORING, but got BETTER)Atdlarneq, The Great Glutton (GOOD)Ángángŭjuk (OKAY)Âtârssuaq (OKAY)Tungujuluk and Saunikoq (BORING/SKIMMED)Kánagssuaq (GOOD)--I think the biggest problem with these stories are the fact they are just really horribly written.
حكايات جيدة متنوعة بعض الشيئ ولو أن الغالب فيها أصطياد الفقمات ولا عجب في ذلك خصوصا وأن القصص من الأسكيمو والذين يتمازون بذلك ,, في بعضها الطرافة والغرابة وفي البعض الآخر يتغلب الخيال والقصص الغير مألوفة ,, جيد لمعرفة أحوال الشعوب الآخرى ~
Interesting collection of Eskimo Folktales from Greenland.
2.5 stars (ok)The glimpse into what constitutes Eskimo folk tales and into Eskimo life was more interesting than the stories themselves.
تبين مجموعة القصص هذه مايؤمن به شعب الاسكيمو من السحر والتحول إلى نجوم او النزول إلى عالم سفلي فيه أموات او إعادة الأموات بالسحر وغيرها من الامور الغريبة

Eskimo Folk-Tales is an interesting volume of stories from an oft-overlooked cultural group.
According to the introduction, the tales are meant to be a 'popular collection', rather than a historical (or anthropological) one.
Thus some of the tales have been altered for the common reader, but the introduction also refers the scholar back the original works (which are not published, but at least used to be available for the asking).This is definitely a volume of tales for adults.
It contains lots of wife-switching and random violence that would not be appropriate for younger audiences.
Strange pointless talesAlthough I enjoyed reading these tales, they were often very strange and didn't have any purpose. It was as though two drunken Eskimo were sitting around a for trying to out do each other with stories, and it was recorded for people to read. Some of the stories went down so many random trails that went nowhere that I wondered why they included the details. My teen daughter and I shuttle two young twins home often. we make up stories with each person adding details. These stories remind me of the ones they share.
I enjoyed this book, as I am always curious to hear more about other cultures' traditional tales. However, there is so much here that I cannot identify with. The lifestyle of the Eskimo is so foreign to me, and I abhor the cold, so I found that I didn't enjoy it as much as I have other folk tales. Just personal preference, I believe.
رغم أنني أحب أن اقرأ كتب ثقافات الشعوب إلا أن طريقة سردها وقصصها مملة هذا ما لاحظته على أغلب الكتب التي قرأتها.. كنت أتطلّع لقراءة تعرّفني بالشعوب والبلاد لأسافر إليها بروحي وأنا اقرأ لكنني لم أجدها هنا.
I read this collection of folk tales as I had been trying to find out about Knud Rasmussen, who collected them. However this English edition is a collection in need of an editor and a bit of a re-write to make it readable, as sentences and stories all run into each other.
ينفع أن نرويها على أحفادنا أو أولادنا رغم أن الوقت مبكر جداً في أن أفكر في هذا. قصص ممتعة، كنت أقرأها أوقات خروجي من البيت ككتاب مرافق لي و قبل النوم.
قصص صالحة فقط لان تسردها الجدات لأحفادها في العصور القديمة لافي هذا العصر. قصص عافا عليها الزمن ولا اظن انها قد تستهوي احد ...بعد قراؤة قصتين شعرت بالملل الشديد...لكنها تبقى تراث تعب عليه من جمعه
