https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/481335.The_Vision
Into my twenties and beyond these are the same reasons why I now call King my favourite - not so much a rambler as a master story builder who can bring any scene to life, and Koontz is down the list - fast-moving storylines can be confused for vanilla characters and loose plot lines.So The Vision falls into my Teenage LOVE era and post forties NOT BAD era.

Description: Mary Bergen is a clairvoyant, able to forsee murders that will happen in the near future, but unable to prevent them from taking place.
And now she is up against a power that is stronger than her own, a power that is taking her over, a power that is trying to kill her before she can identify it...Opening: 'GLOVES OF BLOOD.'The woman raised her hands and stared at them, stared through them.Her voice was soft but tense.
Every move you make, every breath you take, he'll be watching you...Jesus christ this book was creepy! I have yet to read a book that has scared me, but The Vision was certainly eerie enough and disturbing enough to make me wonder about it days after finishing it. Koontz' work is well-written, full of vibrant characters and a gripping plot. Excellent book, I highly recommend it.
Reading Koontz is like Russian Roulette..This time, the gun was pointed at me.
"Gloves of Blood" - opening line of The Vision A blue giraffe standing in the center of a giant custard pie  - The Vision, Chapter 5Bloody little footprints of a cat all across the light tan carpet. - The Vision, Chapter 17"I wrote The Vision while living in Las Vegas, when I was young and stupid." - Dean Koontz, AfterwordThere are a few good parts throughout the book, but the best payoff is in the ending. The Vision is worth reading as one of Dean's early novels, but not among his best - not by a long shot.
Mary did struggle with wanting to be stronger than she felt, and she depended on her husband for strength in many ways, even though by the end of it, she knew she needed to depend on herself.
NO woman, actually, I don't think any PERSON wants to be told to calm down.
She does take care of herself in the end when she has to, but I was hoping for a bit more of a stronger character.The plot itself is interesting and fast-paced.
The explanation for the ending was a bit ridiculous.
The plot is good, with 3 major characters: Mary Bergen, Max(husband) & Alan Turner (brother).Mary(6) was a tortured child recovering in a hospital, had a nightmare of being tied & abused on the floor by a boy.
Mary is haunted by him, throughout her life, seeing people he's attacked in her life & he vowed to kill her one day if she ever let out their secret.
Being psychopathic, Mary works with Police Chief Harley Barnes, Max & Alan to track a murderer & next person to be killed.
During their research, Max & Alan never get along.The psychopathic killer that has haunted her is over 30 years old now.
I always like stories by Dean Koontz and this was no exception. It was cleverly psychological and kept me guessing 'whodunit' although I did suspect the killer and I was right.Well written, great characters, descriptions, suspense and plot.Recommended read.
Freakishly sick and disturbing supernatural serial killer murder mystery. Yet interesting and well written as always - with good characters. But I don't recommend that anyone should ever read this. I'm gonna try and forget that I did.Shame on dean koontz for even thinking these thoughts and writing them down as entertainment. Koontz isn't usually sexually repulsive. This isn't something we should be amused by. Basic storyline: A lady with a dark repressed past (who is now a Clairvoyant crime-solver?) has to deal with a supernatural serial killer who's ruining her new marriage.
When you trip and fall again, and reopen the two day old wound and it ruins your shirt and jacket from even more blood, and then you get stabbed three or four times and shot, you're likely going to bleed out extremely quickly from these massive, gaping wounds you've sustained, rather than being able to walk across a 60 yard room, down a corridor, force open a heavy oak and glass window, climb out of the window, fall six feet, and then climb to your feet to greet police officers...unless, of course, you're batman, which this character most certainly is not.I also failed to get an emotional connection to the characters, something I've grown accustomed to in other works by Koontz.
Mary Bergman is a clairvoyant.
There is a serial killer on the loose.
Mary is getting visions on who he was going to kill next.
Along with having to face the serial killer, Mary will also have to face her past.
I didn't like Koontz writing in this all that well.
The heroine was way to dependent on her husband Max and acted like a spoiled brat.
I think another reason why I didn't like this was because Koontz didn't do well to hid the killer.
It was to obvious to who the killer was.
A book that I would recommend is The Vision by Dean Koontz.
The Vision is suspenseful and also quite slow in spots and quite predictable, but for the reader who wants a thriller without too much gore this could be a perfect choice.
Her psychic ability and haunting visions to aide the police in solving both past and future crimes, but who must also deal with the stress of not having the power to stop the perpetrator from carrying out his evil intentions.
Read The Vision to find out if Mary’s powers can save these people from getting killed by the murderer.
I think this could have been a 4 if I hadn't read such a fast paced novel right before this.
Maybe.
Going to this book after a fast pace book made it seem very slow at times and I was thinking 'get on with it'.
I predicted who the killer was going to be really early on as well, but hoped all the way through that I was going to be wrong and that would make it great for fooling me.
The premise was interesting, and it would still make a good read for anyone looking for something easy and slow.
But, now she is up against a power stronger than her own, a power that is taking over her and trying to kill her before she can identify it."D.KEver since Mary was assaulted as a child she's been able to see things and uses her psychic ability to help the police catch killers.
He was also Mary's childhood tormentor, a fact she suppressed and an innocent hired man went to prison.
In the end her brother Allen is killed, but Mary and hubby Max are OK.
Do you even use fact-checkers?
The story embraces and promotes the paranormal, psychics, Ouija etc and dismisses all of Christianity as a myth.
A thriller that wants to be a horror book. This one was a bit different for Koontz, with more focus on dialogue and frenetic pacing than what came before this. Looking at when it was written and then released, it seems to be a bridge between his older and newer work, and it is a fun read.
Ik registreerde een boek op BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/14671200
Wow does this book date me-I remember reading early Dean Koontz in middle and high school. I probably loved this then. Now?? Ugh. I’m glad Dean and I both matured😂
Blond lead/love interest - Nope2.
Granted, this made the book that much better because it took me to another time, another place, and I was able to live in the moment.
I want the books I read to mean something.
I wanted to read about people who got in trouble and then got out of it, so I devoured Dean Koontz books by the truck load and was none the wiser that life didn't always have a happy ending and better literature, meaningful literature, existed.
Final Judgment: Like I said, "Not bad."
"Soy un demonio y un vampiro. Me gusta el sabor de la sangre" ¿Se puede ser tan sádico y despiadado a tan corta edad? La visión es una novela negra que presenta elementos paranormales, psicológicos y abre las puertas al enigmático mundo de la clarividencia. La narración se centra en la vida de una pareja (Mary y Max), que dedican su tiempo a resolver casos de asesinatos mediante las visiones y habilidades psíquicas de Mary. Pero, ¿qué pasa cuando el cazador se convierte en la presa? ¿Se puede e
¿Se puede escapar de los demonios del pasado?
Las escenas de asesinatos son "crudas y sin censura" (directo al grano), lo cual demuestra que, sin necesidad de agregar adjetivos calificativos por demás, se puede lograr un efecto sanguinario y crudo propio del policial negro.
También destaco el uso de elementos de la psicología, como por ejemplo el subconsciente humano, el cual juega un papel decisivo e importante en el desenlace del relato.
El asesino es uno de los personajes más enfermos que leí en mi vida.
Definitivamente un lugar de mi biblioteca será ocupado por más títulos de este autor.
Worst Koontz book I've yet read.I was having a bad day. It is the worst Koontz book I've yet read, but it wasn't a waste of time.
Somewhat better than the previous book by Koontz that I had finished reading immediately before commencing this one (Voice Of The Night).The story is about a psychic woman who has "visions" of soon-to-be committed murders and helps the police to catch the perpetrators.
She can never prevent the murders in her visions, she can only hope to prevent future homicides by the same person.She is at the apex of an uncomfortable triangle with her adored and charming brother on one side and her husband of four months on the other.
Much more satisfying than the last book I read and has restored my faith in him.
When we meet Mary at the start of this story, she`s tracking down a killer, & although she`s done this on many occasions in the past, this time something is different, something that triggers memories of her past, which she has buried since her childhood.
I bought this novel in a local bookshop because I had recently read `Life Expectancy`which I loved, but it wasn`t till recently that I got round to reading it.
It`s a fast paced novel that keeps you wanting to read, & has some nice twists.
If you haven`t read any of his books, then this might be a good place to start.
It was my 4th book by Dean Koontz.
Earlier beings 'The Bad Place', 'Winter Moon' and 'Velocity'.
A few readers mentioned here that it was a bit slow in spots, but i tend to disagree.
I hadn't had many expectations from the book to begin with for his previous book that i read (winter moon ) was a bit letdown.
That was slow, not this.
One of the things that i'd like to mention is that 'describing sex scenes is not Dean Koontz' suit.
I mean, in this book, these sex scenes give vent to dark human emotions rather than love.

three-and-a-half stars.This was an okay read about Mary Bergen, a psychic who suffered a catastrophic assault during her childhood. Now, with help from her brother Alan, and husband Max, Mary uses her gifts to help the police solve serious crimes. The activities of a serial killer threaten to drag up the events of Mary's childhood.Like I said, a decent read, but the twist ending was sooooo(!) predictable.
I love all of Dean Koontz's books, they never fail to entertain and thrill and shock me. But The Vision, even though the plot is good and the imagery is incomparable, seriously disturbed me.I don't think I would be able to read it again. And it's books like this that really make me wonder how Dean Koontz thinks of these things (the sick, twisted plots that make the novels so hard to put down).
Pretty good book with a surprise twist at the end. I guessed it as a possibility just because it was unexpected but it was still a good storyline. Sometimes the protagonist got on my nerves and the couple banter bordered on realistic much of the time. Not the best, fairly mediocre, but still attention-grabbing and worth a read if you have it laying around.
This was one of Koontz's more disturbing. The woman is a psychic who has some issues with her mentally sick brother. Some of the sexual scenes were a bit distasteful, causing the four star rating despite the adrenaline pumping excitement and horror. A quick read too.
I think I blocked out this book. I can't even imagine Koontz coming up with some of the things the villain did. Poor Mary. No wonder she had emotional issues. Pretty good, but too disgusting for me in some parts.
