https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32416.Hannibal_Rising
I have nothing against making money.
Money is important and I don't begrudge anyone their coin.
That said....
Did Thomas Harris write this lifeless drivel?
I respect a money grab, the studio wanted a Hannibal prequel so Thomas Harris decided to write it.But is this the best he could do?
I have a better back story for Hannibal in my head right now and its better than this.
I didn't even recognize the Hannibal Lecter I've come to know and love over 3 novels, 2 movies(I still haven't watched the movie Hannibal) and a deeply underated tv show.
The young Hannibal in this book is pedestrian.
Ok, this is another book I had to read before I saw the movie.
There is no reason to read this book, or see the movie!
But if you are a fan, like I am, don't feel guilty, do what you want.This is my least favorite of Harris's "Hannibal Saga." His reasoning for Lecter's particular "taste" is, get this, REVENGE.
Everything about Harris's "young" Lecter seemed too far fetched, from his "medical studies" and re-illustrations for anatomy texts, to his Japanese geisha-like aunt/love-interest who lives in Paris.
I read somewhere that Harris had "gone gay" for Lecter after turning out the "disappointing" last installment called merely, Hannibal.
I knew that there couuld be no book like Silence of the Lambs, that Hannibal would probably be a quieter, subtler book.I was half right.There is beauty in the blood here; the harrowing images of death are subdued and gorgesouly written but most shocking is that you feel empathy towards Hannibal Lecter.
You come away wondering if you have a monster waiting to rise up.Even mosnters have feelings, no matter how inhuman they may seem.HANNIBAL RISING is probably one of the most beautiful books I have ever read.
Hannibal Lecter will stay with me for a long time and I can’t wait to read the tale of his beginning all over again.
Every word reads like an exercise in how to bilk the public out of a couple of more dollars with a character that accidentally became famous.
Hannibal Lechter is one of the great evil characters of modern American writing and cinema and the book “Hannibal Rising” does it’s very best to destroy all of his appeal.
I’m going to do my best to forget that both the book and the movie “Hannibal Rising” ever existed so I can go back to loving Hannibal Lechter.
In the first three books in the Lecter series - Red Dragon, The Silence of the Lambs and Hannibal - he is as powerful and unknowable as nature, a force of primal evil.Hannibal Rising mucks it all up by trying - and failing miserably - to humanize him; it reduces one of literature's great monsters to a run-of-the-mill victim of a lousy childhood.
In the other Lecter books, I couldn't stop reading about him; in this one, I couldn't wait to be done with him.
It wasn't anything that I thought it was going to be, which was surprising.
This was a true prequel to the character of Hannibal, and I was rather wishing we could have a continuation of him as an adult, post-Clarise, but it just wasn't to be.That being said, it was fine as a novel and psychological thriller, but not so much as a continuation of a franchise.
It might have been more enjoyable had it been a character of a different name.You know how us readers can get.
I know I am, but fundamentally I found it enjoyable.
There's not much head hopping, yet it still feels a bit disconnected, especially when the author tells too much, explaining in lines to the reader what should be shown instead.With the nightmarish events, I can see how someone like Hannibal could die inside as a child to emerge as an intellectual shell later on.
We all have capacity for evil, but I doubt we all have the capacity to have this level of apathy and emptiness.Overall the author filled in the past of Hannibal that he'd sketched in later events.
Από τη στιγμή που άρχισα να πηδάω κεφάλαια και σελίδες δεν έχω να πω πολλά. Πιστεύω ότι απλά δεν ήταν για μένα. Ελπίζω σε άλλους να αρέσει περισσότερο.
For all the finesse displayed by Anthony Hopkins in the movie version, the novel reads like a half hearted attempt to probe into the past of this amazing character.To state it bluntly, this reads like a screenplay disguised as a novel.
There is very little exertion you need to put in to visualize what happens for all is described as good as on film.
Dr.Lecter was an enigma in the previous novels and movies with his acts as random and unpredictable as they come.
Thomas Harris tries to put a past behind the character and cooks up a concoction which is quite mind boggling.
A must-read for the fans of Hannibal Lecter.I almost felt ready to give up on this one until I was about a quarter of the way through.
Harris is telling the story of Hannibal's childhood/formative years through the veil of Hannibal's actual memories.
Overall, I found Hannibal Rising to be a very engaging book that enlightens the reader to a large part of how Hannibal Lecter became one of the most fearsome villains in all of literature.I also found the historical aspect of the novel to be very interesting.
He pulled a remarkable con on Dino, and the public, by destroying Dr. Hannibal Lecter as effectively as possible.
By introducing a nonsensical, ham-fisted backstory, rife with deliberate continuity errors and an implausible denouement at odds with the previous Lecter tales, Harris demythologized his best-known creation and demolished the not-so-good doctor's mystique and (once) frightfully vague past.
Harris had assured us before that Lecter couldn't be reduced to psychoanalytical influences; the doctor himself mocked anyone who attempted to quantify or pigeonhole him, sometimes with grisly results.
"Do you think God intended to eat Isaac, and that's why he told Abraham to kill him?""No, Hannibal, of course not.
The angel intervenes in time.""Not always," Hannibal said.In this book, we follow the infamous Hannibal Lecter through his childhood and adolescence.
Despite the fact that at times, it was very brutal and sad, it continuously carried that sense of human nature, and that hope exists in every situation, no matter how bleak.
It was fantastic to see that Hannibal was not always the monster he ended up becoming.
Yet through it all, Hannibal was a survivor.
I just re-read this novel and ended up adding a star.
The best way to approach this novel is as a stand-alone.
Hannibal Lecter is no longer an overworked, over-the-top villain that fans love to hate.
Even in the face of his first true love, he keeps his resolve.
I enjoyed getting to know this young Hannibal Lecter, seeing him in a rare moment of looking "scruffy." I am sure to re-read Thomas Harris' other Hannibal Lecter books and value the opportunity to peer beneath the doctor's seasoned veneer to the youth who guards his secrets.
I don't know why you'd go through all that effort to write an excellent origin story for Cobra Commander and then Find and Replace the name to Hannibal Lecter.
Too many details that never pay off.
Interesting structural use of withholding.
Harris is a gifted writer, but this didn't work for me.
On the one hand, the choice of details makes it feel like it was written for the author and not the audience.
On the other, it feels like a tired revenge plot stolen from a Hollywood sock drawer, "Hello, I'm the Sympathetic Bad Guy Sock Puppet.

Hannibal Rising book 4 of the Hannibal Lecter series or the story of Hannibal as a child and what made him the way he is "today".
It got to a point that his father Count Robert Lecter had to bring in a tutor, Mr. Jacov, for Hannibal since he was so advanced in reading and mathematics.
I found this part of the book to be hard to read.
Of course we know Hannibal lived through this ordeal because there are three books that have come before this one.
This book is about the aftermath of the war.Hannibal remembers the faces of his enemies.
Все още изпитвам известни чуденки по въпроса как да оценя тази книга.Преди всичко това е история за отмъщение за нечовешка жестокост.
Отмъщение, равно по сила на причинената болка.Само че...Отчасти - да - виждаме Ханибал Лектър такъв, какъвто е бил някога, преди да стане онова тайнствено и гениално чудовище зад стъклената преграда.
От там и проблемът ми - не мога да се "включа" в това отмъщение, ако не мога да съчувствам/да симпатизирам на героя, дори и да е най-големия злодей на света (а все пак той е главното действащо лице).
Plus, there were parts in this book where the action took place in Lithuania, my native country, and that happens so rarely when your country is so small and foreigners barely know it, that this is basically a miracle!
Many facts about history, military weapons, historical figures...
I'm really dumb.Secondly, this book wasn't as frightening as the others.
And maybe it was because the movie seemed even more scary than the book.
maybe it's because I have seen the movie before reading the book.So I could say that Hannibal rising dissapointed me a little bit.
1.0 to 1.5 stars. Okay, after not liking Hannibal, it was an example of pure, unadulterated optimism that I picked up thus book hoping to return to the magic of the first two books of this series. I was wrong, the book was horrible and I learned my lesson.
Може би този ужасяващ канибал и напрежението между него и инспекторката прави филмите успешни, но не такъв образ създава Томас Харис в книгите си.Който ги е чел знае, че в тях много по-голямо внимание се обръща на произхода на Ханибал Лектър, на това защо и как той е станал това, което е.
Освен това, голяма част от книгите са посветени на изкуството, пред което канибалът се прекланя, на изискания вкус и култура.В четвъртата книга от поредицата най-после е подробно описано какво точно се случва по време на Втората световна война, което кара малкият Ханибал, от благородническия род Лектър, да изгуби всичко човешко в себе си още на осем години.И точно в опитите да покаже защо и как Ханибал става канибал, Томас Харис пресолява манджата, включвайки военопрестъпници и нацисти, които са първите жертви на Ханибал, изкарвайки го едва ли не добър, а деянията му - оправдани.
Now don’t get me wrong there is a lot to like about this book and Thomas Harris’s writing style is one I really enjoy.
There were some slow times but the flow of the writing made it seem to not drag too much.
These extra serial killer stories made those so intense, and how Hannibal played into those investigations was one that held my attention.
Even in Hannibal, we followed the troubles of Clarice Starling with one story line, and Hannibal’s life in Florence.
Here is what I liked about the book.
Not a great book by any means, but good enough to get rid of the awful aftertaste that Harris' previous novel, "Hannibal," left me with.
Lecter was more interesting in the early Harris books, before he became the principal character of Harris' novels and somewhat wore out his welcome.
Still, it's more effective than I would have thought, and does far less to diminish the appeal of Lecter as a character than "Hannibal" did.
Let's hope that Harris finds a way to recapture the magic of his early novels and stop milking the Lecter character for every last possible dollar.
He has shown us how Hannibal came to be in this book, and I'm so proud that I sort of figured that I had Hannibal pegged all along.
Because if you think about it, Hannibal kills those that need to be killed.
Whether that's right or wrong, that's not for me to decide, but as a fictional character, I love the way Hannibal thinks, and this book gives you intricate details into the life and background of how Hannibal came to be.He's not so bad afterall!
YOU really need to read this to understand Hannibal!
I'm a fan of Thomas Harris for Life!
I don't think he can ever write a bad novel!
Poorly written, completely uninteresting, lacking severely in character development, Hannibal Rising seems to want to be fan service rather than a seriously written novel.
Sometimes it’s better not to know the background of a villain, allowing the insanity to simply be part of the character itself, no explanation necessary.
In this case, it’s difficult to feel any empathy for Hannibal as we know what he’s to become.
By the end of the book, there’s no clear picture as to how we meet the good doctor in Red Dragon.
Un satisfying to say the least, Hannibal Rising fails to live up to the lofty expectations set by Harris’ earlier books.
I know now why nearly nobody likes this book, the last one in Hannibal Lecter series.
and yet I sympathized with him far less than when he was an established, monstrous villain in his older years.
I didn't mind reading Hannibal's flashbacks to his childhood experiences in "Hannibal", the third book in series, yet here everything felt..
It's true what most of the critics say - we don't need to know what happened to Hannibal Lecter that resulted in him becoming the monster we see.
The unknown is far more intriguing and mesmerizing.
I love all the Hannibal books and all the movies.
This was a prelude to the Hannibal Lecter books that we tend to know and found that I sort of empathised with Hannibal growing up and how he turned out.
It is best to read this before you read any of the other Thomas Harris "Hannibal" books but it can still be read after and I would recommend this to anyone who has either read or watched any of the movies and enjoyed them.
I intend reading this again one day, not something I do with many books.
You know that Simpsons scene where Mr. Burns has the monkeys typing in a room, playing the odds that one must eventually write the next Great American Novel?
This is the leftovers Mojo the monkey left.
Hannibal Lecter is the ultimate Mary Sue, behind Wesley Crusher.
This book reads like screenplay rather than a novel.
I hope Thomas Harris took a glee from being forced to write his most beloved character into the ground.
More than likely, he sobbed all the way to the bank.
Good for you!
I'm never going to get those 335 pages back.
Magari la trama thriller non è tra le più originali della saga (anche se io ho trovato molto interessante lo sviluppo della vendetta di Hannibal e le sue sottotrame), ma c'è una grandissima attenzione alla musica, all'arte, e naturalmente sempre quel pizzico di horror e scene inquietanti tipiche dei romanzi di Harris.
Per contro ci sono infatti tante altre recensioni entusiaste, ed io sono con loro.Inoltre la crescita interiore di Hannibal come bambino-ragazzo-uomo viene seguita passo a passo in maniera esemplare, ed anche la sua evoluzione come serial killer per il lettore è molto facile da seguire.
prasčiausia iš visos Hanibalo Lekterio knygų serijos.
Probably, had I read it before knowing who Hannibal Lecter was, I would've enjoyed it more, but his personality (unexpected, mysterious, but we did know a few traits of his) was established, only for this sorry excuse for a prequel to destroy all we knew about him, mess him up and offer no plausible explanation to why he turned out like this.
Even in his first kill, what drove him was saving the honor of lady Murasaki, which made him this twisted hero.
