https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16241186-cocktail-time
Wodehouse defies superlatives and is, for my money, the best comedic writer to ever put pen to paper.
According to Wikipedia the Uncle Fred stories comprise one short story and four novels, two of which are set at Blandings Castle:"Uncle Fred Flits By" (1935) - included in the collection Young Men in Spats, (1936)Uncle Fred in the Springtime (1939) - a Blandings story Uncle Dynamite (1948)Cocktail Time (1958)Service with a Smile (1961) - a Blandings storySo, back to 'Cocktail Time', I can confirm that I smiled, I chuckled, and I laughed.
Not quite as much as the very best books by P.G. Wodehouse, but a still a more than satisfactory return.
I already eagerly await my next foray into the wonderful world of Wodehouse.4/5
Beefy, a prominent barrister with political aspirations, writes a scathing novel about the youth of today after Uncle Fred tells him he can't.
Once completed, Beefy realizes that a man in his position can't be responsible for such a thing and convinces his shiftless nephew, Cosmo Wisdom, to take credit for it.
Enter Oily Carlisle and his wife, who convince Cosmo that blackmail is the best course of action.
Throw in the usual Wodehouse plot elements like impersonation, unrequited love, people short on money, and Uncle Fred weaving a tapestry of lies and you have a hilarious tale on your hands.
Uncle Fred continues to spread sweetness and light, but this for me, it didn't measure up to the previous books.
It has all the trademark Wodehouse wit, Uncle Fred meddles in everybody's business (which this time includes finding a way to get his friend and future MP out of the trouble he created when he wrote a scandalous novel, helping his godson, and promoting a match between the butler of an acquaintance and the widowed lady of the house), and continues to be a delight.
P.G. Wodehouse not at his best is still enjoyable and a good deal better than most authors, so reading one of his books is never a waste of time, and you're guaranteed to be thoroughly entertained!
The real culprit, of course, is Ickenham, who at the time had no idea it would turn Beefy into the secret author of a bestseller.Events continue to spiral out of control as more of Ickenham’s social circle becomes involved—and that’s just how he likes it.
But as circumstances shift, the characters have to change too—Cosimo goes from wanting to reveal the real author to wanting to keep the charade of his authorship alive after Cocktail Time lands a multi-hundred-thousand-dollar movie deal.
This was my first encounter with Uncle Fred. I found it quite amusing but not a patch on Jeeves and Wooster.
My first PG Wodehouse book! The back of the book, which calls it a "hilarious jab at the publishing industry," drew me in, and while it wasn't as publishing-centric as I'd hoped, it lived up to the hilarious part. I was charmed by the characters, the humor, and the twisting plot. This book, to quote the first page, left me feeling "as bumps-a-daisy as billy-o." I look forward to reading more Wodehouse books!
His nephew Pongo Twisleton having been married in the previous book, Lady Ickenham (Uncle Fred's wife) has no choice but to deposit him with his godson Johnny while she is elsewhere (she doesn't trust him on his own, for good reason!).
Sir Raymond 'Beefy' Bastable, a neighbor of Johnny's, is prompted to "write his exposé of the younger generation, a novel so shocking that it caused endless repercussions for its hapless author, sparked off a whole series of outrageous misunderstandings, and required the inventive talents of Lord Ickenham himself to resolve." as the blurb puts it.
What ho, what ho! Now this is more like it. After the bloated and overly-convoluted Uncle Dynamite (to my taste, anyway), this is a return to form for Wodehouse: Just the right level of everything, and not too much of anything. A comedy masterpiece. Read it.Collected in the Utterly Uncle Fred omnibus.
What a delightful story!
Standard Wodehouse fare - a light, funny, entertaining read.
Cocktail Time is quite funny, but it doesn’t necessarily compare favourably to Carry On, Jeeves, the only other Wodehouse book I’ve read.
This isn’t to say that the humour is spread too thin, merely that the laughs are less punchy and relentless, leaving sufficient time for building of the story, where I was beside myself constantly and consistently with Carry On, Jeeves.
I still found myself laughing out loud frequently at Cocktail Time; I just suspect that my next journey into his world will be another Jeeves collection.
The author of Cocktail Time, hoping to jump-start his political career, writes the book under a pseudonym desiring to keep his authorship a secret.
This situation leads to some hilarious scenarios between Sir Raymond Bastable (author), his nephew Cosmo, and an American con artist named Oily Carlisle (the book was worth reading for no other reason than having a main character with such a name!).In addition, as usual, the most fun comes simply from Wodehouse's language and similes.
I can't review a Wodehouse book without at least a few of my favorites:"He was feeling like a character in a Greek tragedy pursued by the Furies.
That's a little extreme, in my opinion, but it true that later Wodehouse seldom reaches the heights of Plum's best work from the 1920s through the 1940s.The first few chapters here, which set up the premise, are vintage Wodehouse.
Beefy, stung by the laughter coming from the window of the Drones, writes a scathing novel, Cocktail Time, which exposes the dissolution and wickedness of London's younger generation.
Complications ensue.Unfortunately, after Wodehouse's masterful setup, he serves us pretty thin soup for the rest of the book.
Much of time, it just seems as if Wodehouse was out of ideas.I'm giving Cocktail Time three stars, because I love Wodehouse, and because the premise was a good one.
This "Uncle Fred" story was nearly as good as the best of the Wooster & Jeeves books, but not quite.
There were some elements that made this a notch above many of Wodehouse's other non-Jeeves stories.
It is also fun to see some of the characters from the Jeeves & Wooster as well as the Blandings stories from another angle (such as Pongo Twistleton and Sir Rodderick Glossop).
To me the story didn't quite seem even in its quality all the way through, but the many times when it reached its height, it was all the way up.

Uncle Fred is his usual irrepressible self, always up for an adventure in his quest to spread ‘sweetness and light’ all around him, and there is a rich cast of minor characters: Peasemarch the butler (and ex-Home Guard colleague of Uncle Fred’s), the snooty barrister Sir Raymond Bastable whose hat Uncle Fred dislodges with a well-aimed Brazil nut from the Drones Club window in the first chapter and Howard Saxby senior, the slightly bonkers literary agent, and many more.
All in all, perfect entertainment for a dull winter day.
I give five stars to any book that can do that!“Except that her ears did not stick up and that she went about on two legs instead of four, Phoebe Wisdom was extraordinarily like a white rabbit, a resemblance which was heightened at the moment by the white dressing jacket she was wearing and the fact that much weeping had made her nose and eyes pink...”“It was at this moment that the door opened again and Mrs. Phoebe Wisdom pottered in, looking so like a white rabbit that the first impulse of any lover of animals would have been to offer her a lettuce ...”“Phoebe was still fluttering.
Wodehouse wrote almost 100 novels and collections of short stories.
He is perhaps the greatest comic writer of the 20th Century best known for his stories featuring young British dilettante Bertram "Bertie" Wooster and his wry valet Jeeves.
"Cocktail Time" is a novel featuring another of Wodehouse's unique characters, Frederick Altamont Cornwallis Twistleton, fifth Earl of Ickenham, commonly called Lord Ickenham or Uncle Fred.
The story begins in the smoking-room of the Drones Club.
Johnny Pearce can't get married because his fiancee refuses to live with Johnny's old nursemaid, Nanny Bruce.
Nanny won't leave until Johnny gives her 500 pounds, which he doesn't have.
Respected barrister Beefy hates the younger generation, but they love his risque novel, Cocktail Time.
Once Beefy's mooching nephew finds out who wrote it, he turns to blackmail.
And setting up most of these complications is Uncle Fred.Most of my Wodehouse reads have been of Wooster and Jeeves, but I'm glad I finally got one of Uncle Fred.
This is so funny and clever.
Wodehouse at his best with quick put-downs.
If you've never read Wodehouse you should, regardless of whether you find this halcyon England of the leisure classes desirable or not, because Wodehouse is one of the most original, entertaining virtuosos of language. Many rightly love Jeeves and Wooster, but I think the intrepid, jovial Lord Ickenham gives more bang for the buck. He is Wodehouse's best creation. Escape to an England that never really existed for more than fluttering moments, and don't be troubled by the social underpinnings such a society would require; let that slumber for reality.
When I'm in need of rollicking humor and clever plot twists, there is no author finer than Wodehouse, in my opinion. In this, a chain of events start with a Brazil nut and catapult in the hands of none other than dear Uncle Fred. That this innocent Brazil nut could lead to a chase among con artists, a reluctant author, his oft-broke nephew and a doddering senile publisher is a farce that Wodehouse pulls of triumphantly.
I have read over 25 Wodehouse books including the entire Jeeves series, all Psmith, and several stand alone novels.
Cocktail Time is sorely missing something and now at 2/3 the way through, I realize what it is.
The previous two Fred novels and short story I read had the wonderful interactions between Fred and his unwitting accomplice, Pongo.
Uncle Fred without Pongo to antagonize, is just not the same and has thus far made for an extremely tedious read.For me, an important element in any book, film, play, etc.
Cocktail Time has neither.
A+ for humor. It's not primarily Wodehouse's characters or farcical situations, but the playful language that makes his writing so funny. One of my favorite bits was batty old Mr. Saxby railing against breakfast cereal:'When I was a young man,' he said severely, 'there were no cereals. We ate good wholesome porridge for breakfast and throve on it. Then along came these Americans with their Cute Crispies and Crunchy Whoopsies and so forth, and what's the result? Dyspepsia is rife. England riddled with it.'And so very British!
I was torn between giving this 4 and 5 stars. Really I think I'd give it 4.75. This is a classic Wodehouse whirlwind: bracing, cheerful, hilarious. The only thing I'd change - and what held it back from being a clear 5 in my view - was a rather abrupt ending.
Another gem from PGW. He never fails to amuse. Again, Uncle Fred spreads sweetness and light. I feel terribly sorry for any who don't find Wodehouse hilarious. Perhaps you take yourself too seriously?This one starts with a Brazil nut knocking off a top hat.
If you don't enjoy PG Wodehouse, there's something wrong with your comedy muscle. This was my first foray into Uncle Fred after several titles in the Jeeves series. I prefer the latter, but it's more like a bourbon/scotch debate than whiskey/tequilla.
If you enjoy reading about the wacky exploits of some of the British upper classes between 1925 and 1960, then P.G. Wodehouse is for you. Things, whether they be pigs, diamond necklaces, incriminating letters, or identities, get stolen. People pretend to be other people. And so it goes.
New life goal: turn out like Lord Ickenham.
One of my favourite Wodehouse books.
:-)
