https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28250.The_Novice
The second book in this series and not quite as good as the first.
I felt there was not enough content for the length of the book so it dragged a bit in places.
As in the first one I enjoyed the characters although I did get a bit tired of waiting for Sonea to use her powers and turn Regin into the rat that he was.
(Sadly she never does).
Having said all that I read the whole book in record time so it must have had something going for it.
And I still want to read the next one!
How PATHETIC did Sonea turn out to be in this book?Again, the author drags part of the story, aka wh
This read was okay.
I'm literally on a fence as to what I'm actually feeling about it.
I like the characters in the book but found that the author drag out the storyline unnecessarily.
I found myself getting bored frequently and that is a big No No when I read a book.
The heroine in this read also played the victim role way to long.
I seriously reached a point that I didn't even care what happen to her as it was pointless.
My official rating is 3 Stars and I'll eventually finished the trilogy ( if only to see how it all ends )
A surprisingly good fantasy title. The plot reminds me quite of Harry Potter (i.e. protagonist in school of wizardry, unusual circumstances of birth, befriended by the school headmaster), but the plot is much more suspenseful and interesting. And none of that ANGST-CRAWLING-IN-MY-SKIN rubbish that one usually sees in this genre of stories.Mature plot, snappy writing, interesting characters. What more could one ask for?
After reading this book, I'm really starting to love the series.
The first book didn't really get interesting until Sonea got to the Guild.
With this book, though, it remained interesting from beginning to end.
I can relate to Sonea's goal to be a Healer.
And I really approved of Trudi Canavan's view of homosexuality that she portrayed through two of her characters.
I won't mention the names here to prevent spoilers.
Seeing the progress of one of those characters, both in the journey and realization of his feelings, he quickly became one of my favorite characters.
I can't wait to read the next book.
Do you know that feeling, when you backpacks weights 10 kg after going to a library?
And you forget that it weighted tone, that you had something else to do, that it's already morning --- you're fascinated, charmed and totally out of this world.Oh, you do know that feeling?
Well, if you want to feel it again - take this book.The story itself is not complicated and I could say that it's even a little bit predictable.
The magic world in the book is very real, so are main characters.
As I said, fascinating story.
It's entirely possible that I was just in the wrong mood to read this book.
I thought I saw where the author was going and was willing to follow her to the next book, should the opertunity land in my path.
Of course, I see by Goodreads that there are already several books in ther series after this, so the chances of the main character continuing to reveal that she's the Greatest.
So, this book has less of the charming character interaction that saved the first one, and a great deal of repetitive story-telling intersperced with the "shocking" insertion of a homosexual character.
"There's always a bit of truth in each rumour, the trouble is finding out which bit."The worldbuilding in this series really is exquisite.On the other hand, I found more editing errors in the book, and they continue through book three, too (which I finished half of before remembering I was supposed to mark this one as read).
Think of this book as what a Harry Potter novel would look like if it was only about Harry vs.
Except here it's Sonea vs Entire School all-out war with the protagonist being 1) a total victim, 2) accepting everything they throw at her, 3) not fighting back, 4) barely protecting herself, 5) barely accepting help from third parties.
I was extremely curious as to how m/m slash looks in young-adult version, but was sorely disappointed.
That part of the book was insanely, mind-numbingly boring and consisted of rambling and preaching about tolerance etc.
Primary school stuff.Ah, the mage...
Olaylar olaylar demek isterdim ama bir iki şey hariç çok durağan gidiyor yahu kitap. Akkarin çok hızlı öğrendi mesela.Yada bütün bir kitap Regin'in Sonea ile uğraşmasını okuduk durduk.Artık son kitapta biraz hız kazanmalı konu.Son olarak bana Akkarin'in kötü bir niyeti yokmuş da yaptığı bütün kötülükler Loca'nın selameti açısındanmış gibi geliyor.
I loved her character and my heart just broke for her throughout this book; there were a couple of times I just wanted to scream “Enough, give the girl a break and some happiness!”Much of the story is also told from Dannyl’s perspective.
Both Sonea and Dannyl develope love interests in this book; much of that is in the background but it was nice for these characters to have some happiness in midst of all of their trials.The only thing that really irked me throughout this book was everyone’s fear and assumption that The High Lord Akkarin was evil.
Each day becomes a battle for survival as Sonea is stalked in the corridors after lessons and repeatedly attacked with magic by larger and larger groups organised by this malicious novice.Alongside this, a subplot deals with the discovery at the end of book 1, that the leader of the magicians, the High Lord Akkarin, appears to be (illegally) using black magic.
As Dannyl spends more time with his new friend (view spoiler)[he eventually undergoes an experience where he realises that he is actually gay and has been using his magic to suppress it (hide spoiler)].A minor subplot is that strange murders are happening in the city which point to a rogue magician.
And why ffs are the adults not doing a damn thing about all of this!?!" For a strong character, in this story she does the most illogical things, but then, how dare logical progression interfere with the plot the author wanted.
The adults know what's going on for the majority of the book.
Except, isn't Sonea something special, someone the teachers would want to shield from bullies?
Even if his family felt slighted by Sonea's presence at the school, that doesn't explain the extent this character goes through to ruin her life.
ERMAGERD I'm so intrigued by all that's happening. Going to start book 3 immediately because I NEED MORE
But Sonea is strong and she could give Regin a run for his money.
The story was right where I found it the most interesting – right in the school during and in between classes, and right with Lord Dannyl during his ambassadorial journeys.
The story is set in a time where this is absolutely unacceptable and so he was able to suppress all the rumours, but you still wonder – is he or isn’t he?
(hide spoiler)]Regin.
He’s only been active since the beginning of the book and I am getting pretty damn sick of this guy.
Wow. Judging by the general rating (4,01!) and after over 500 pages-long intro that The Magicians' Guild was, I expected a bit of an action and a bit of a story.
The protagonist is a weak girl, constantly bullied, refuses help and when she finally stands up for herself, she's sure to fail the duel.
This kind of a story could be put in less than 600 pages.
To be honest, I'm not quite sure what exactly was the main plot.
Dannyl's voyages added nothing to the book and his sexuality issues weren't interesting to read about.
Finally I felt toward the end of the second book that things were picking up. The story has been very good, but too drawn out for my liking. Now, things are starting to get real. Am looking forward to book 3.
Wirklich sehr gut und einfach nur einnehmend dieses Buch. Man muss einfach mit fiebern und steckt mitten drin. Ich liebe es, hoffentlich wird der dritte Teil ebenso großartig!
This was a brilliant! I thought it was even better then the first book (The Magicianbs Guild). Can't wait to read The High Lord.
No tengo más que buenas palabras y halagos para este libro, porque contra todo pronóstico me ha ENCANTADO❤Siendo que el ritmo narrativo de su primera entrega, El gremio de los magos,  me pareció un poco lento, este libro me ha encantado de principio a fin.Creo que no ha habido ni un solo párrafo que no me haya gustado, y además de la historia maravillosa, el estilo literario está tan inmensamente cuidado, que da gusto leer y recrearse en las maravillosas descripciones que Trudi Canavan utiliza para sumirnos en la ciudad de Imardin y el Gremio de los magos.Los personajes me han ENAMORADO en sumo grado: Sonea y su increíble fuerza y poder, Rothen el incansable y noble tutor de Sonea, Dannyl y sus viajes como segundo embajador del Gremio, Akkarin, el imponente y misterioso Gran Lord del Gremio y el malvado Regin, incansable en su empresa de torturar a Sonea día tras día.
“Believe me. There was nothing good in always being second place."I liked the second book even better than the first one! Mainly because this one was set in the magical school, which is the best setting ever imo. I loved how Sonea was learning all the magical stuff and attended classes. And there was a couple of great antagonists! Overall, very satisfying read. Cant wait to see where the story goes next!5*
“Believe me. There was nothing good in always being second place."I liked the second book even better than the first one! Mainly because this one was set in the magical school, which is the best setting ever imo. I loved how Sonea was learning all the magical stuff and attended classes. And there was a couple of great antagonists! Overall, very satisfying read. Can´t wait to see where the story goes next!5*
3.75 So much better than the first one
Akkarın <3 <3 Sibel
We see some character development here for Sonea and Dannyl and are left to continue wondering what exactly is going on with the High Lord, although by the end of the book there are some clues.
He isn't a very well developed character at this point at all, and as the third book is titled The High Lord I am pretty sure we will get a lot more of him there.I have to say that the two separate themes of bullying and sexual identity almost completely took over the whole book and overshadowed the plot, but despite that this book still kept me reading and wanting to know what would happen next.
As a rule, I try not to give any book a rating below 3, but even with the added allure of procrastination, I had to force myself to finish the second and third part of this unbearable badly written series that I started reading 4 years ago. Only the nagging thoughts in the back of my mind of having left a series halfway compelled me to read till the end of this trilogy.Trudi Canavan has the unique honor of being the person to make me rethink my read-all-series-till-the-end dogma.
The plot was not fast, there wasn’t really too much going on in this novel.
There was little action as well throughout the novel, but right at the end there is a climax, and it was SO MUCH FUN!!!
Even though the action and plot was slow there was still a lot going on with Sonea’s lessons and her exams and her growing relationships with certain characters, so it was far from a dull read.I really liked this book.
I do wish there was a little more going on throughout the novel but overall it was great fun!
Because of the whole bully business that goes for the ENTIRE book.
I almost stopped reading when Sonea moves to the next class just to escape him and he does the SAME!
Who DOES that?!That reminded me of the bad Hollywood cliche: when our hero punches the villain, cuts him with a sword, shoots him in the face and runs him over with the car and the villain STILL stands up and continues to fight.
His story was a little bit more interesting than Sonea's but in the end it falls flat as it goes nowhere.
It's definitely a book that I won't be reading again.I will however, continue with the trilogy just to see how this all wraps up.
Peor, soy la stalkeada.De comienzo a fin te encuentras a Sonea, la ahora aprendiz del Gremio, siendo víctima de acoso e intimidación escolar por parte de sus compañeros, para los entendidos bullying, que como el anterior malo-malvado no les parece que alguien de sus orígenes reciba y comparta la educación y entrenamiento mágico que dignos herederos de las más altas y antiguas castas han requerido y merecido por generaciones.
Y, en fin, maltrato escolar aparte no es mucho lo que se pueda decir de esta segunda entrega, se mantienen las mismas deficiencias de la anterior en cuanto a ritmo, narrativa, trama, personajes, etc., y al igual que el anterior es Lord Dannyl quién lleva la voz cantante (y salvadora) para tan pobre desarrollo.
I think it's the same problem as the last book.
The thing is I usually don't mind the slow pacing as long as it can keep my interest, but these books are cutting it close.
(view spoiler)[I don't know if this might be because I simply have never thought the High Lord to be the evil villain everyone keeps thinking he is, so I just don't see the danger.
After, what like 800 pages between both books, we are actually getting to the meet of the problem.
I just think it was 400 pages too long at this point.
At the same time Sonea, Rothen and Administrator Lorlen have to find a way of dealing with and stopping the High Lord Akkarin from using his black magic.As I said in my review of The Magicians Guild, I am a big fan of the Black Magician Trilogy, so this might not be an unbiased review.
Sonea grows as a character in this book but at the same time is more vulnerable as she is out of her element and does not fit in at the Guild as much as the slums.
