https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8685612-the-iron-queen
'The Iron Queen' really is Meghan's "coming of age" book.
In earlier books, Meghan was always cast as the damsel in distress, waiting for Ash or Puck to come to her rescue.
As much as I loved Ash and Meghan as a couple, I couldn't help but feel bad for poor Puck.King Oberon and Queen Mab take on unexpected roles, as the false Iron King continues to gain power.
She is faced with many difficult choices and adversity along the way.More so than other books in the series, 'The Iron Queen' ended with a huge upset.
*Sob*In the last book, Meghan and Ash were exhiled <--- I spelled that wrong, from the Faery world.
But they were only in the human world for like 5 minutes when the freaking Iron Fae come looking for Meghan.
It's this whole thing, you need to read the books.
But they hold off the best they can so Meghan, Ash, Puck, Grimalkin and a little ragtag go and try to defeat this false king.
And this whole time the real Iron King that Meghan defeated before is still with her.
This was an epic story about bravery, loyalty, friendship, true love as well as despair, loss and sacrifices.All my beloved characters were back in this book.
But the best character of this entire series is Ash. He really gets to shine in this book.
Both Ash and Puck made my eyes well up several times with their declarations of love and dedication to Meghan.There has rarely been a book that managed to suck me into the story as thoroughly as the books of the Iron Fey series have.
He’s cold and distant, got lots of nice, long, glossy hair, wields a sword with skills like no one’s business, and well, supposedly, he’s hot beyond the extremes!Case in point:Does that look a wee bit familiar?
At least this time in this book she doesn’t stand around like a loser.
Ima teach him how a REAL bad ass fairy is supposed to look like.Oh, hellz yeah.Sephiroth would beat the shit out of him (Ash) with his HAIR.
Watch I bet it’s all gonna be about omg, Puck that evil bastard killed my ex-girlfriend, then omg, Meghan I love and misses you so much and we needs to have more hot loving time, but NO YOU REJECTED ME.
2.5This is way better than the previous installment, but since some chapters, though not too many, just three or four, were so boring as to practically compel me to skim through more than actually read them, I can't honestly bring myself to rate this 3 stars.“I wished that, for once, faery tales –real faery tales, not Disney fairy tales– would have a happy ending.”I wished that too, but Meghan didn't die, so, adios happy ending.
I'll surely read the next installment eagerly, not only because of this ending but also because it's told from Ash's perspective, and we all know what that means: no more Meghan's thoughts around to kill my surviving neurons.
Everyone, this book BLEW MY MIND.0_0Amazing.BRILLIANT.OVERALL, IF I DIED WHILE READING THIS, THEN IT MUST BE A GOOD THING.There was action... adventure....... ...I had a heart failure at the ending...............yah.But this had action, (meaning Ash and Meghan being badass) There was romance, (meaning they kissed and made me die multiple times)There was STUPID Oberon(meaning WHO'S GONNA F*CKING KICK HIS ASS FOR ME?!)And there was laughter, peace and (view spoiler)[ poor Puck ending up with nobody...*sob* (hide spoiler)]Haha, YOU'LL LOVE IT.Thank you, everybody, and good night. ;)["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Final rating: 4/5 starsSo... how the hell do i start this review???? Lemme see: A long, long, time ago, in a fae land not so far away, nevernever was under an attack...  Nope, sounds like "Weird Al" Yankovic's song .... So um ...... lemme see.... i know! With an interview!!The guest of this interview today is the book "The Iron Queen", for short IQ.  IQ: So let's start from the beginning, shall we?ME: Sure :DIQ: So, for starters, how do you feel about me?ME: You were amusing, fun and lovely book
IQ: So let's start from the beginning, shall we?ME: Sure :DIQ: So, for starters, how do you feel about me?ME: You were amusing, fun and lovely book, but i hated one thing about you, and your sisters The Iron Daughter and The Iron King.
"So, either you say, 'Sure, I'd love to have you along,' or you have a big bird dropping things on your head the whole trip.”  And he deserves his own happy ending too :DIQ: I feel the same.
There was this particular scene in the book where Meghan and Ash had (view spoiler)[ Sex  (hide spoiler)].
If you have not read this series...
This installment was probably my favorite of the three.I think one of my favorite parts of reading a series is watching the characters develop.
And The Iron Fey series was an excellent example of that.
Within the first few pages, I was swept up, into this stunning world that Julie has created and I didn't want to leave.
Julie's writing is so easy to read, and her imagery, the creatures in this world....
And the love story reaches it's pinnacle....
It was everything I could have wanted and more.(I'm DYING to read Ash's story...
Ok, off we go!The Iron Fey series is about a girl named Meghan Chase.
Along the way, she meets a Cait Sith named Grimilkin and the Winter Prince, Ash. She also finds out she is a half fey and her father is non other than Lord Oberon, King of the Summer Court.
I did think that in the Iron daughter, Meghan got a bit obsessive, reminding me of Bella swan, but it can be over looked because this series is just that amazing.
And for that, I believe there was no other way to end this series with changing the book cannon.
Only kinda reading. This is my go to book while waiting to read another one. Love me some Ash 💕💕
Beware of spoilers!This book completely flipped my views on the characters, the plot, the concepts, etc.
I cannot believe how much I Pucking love this book.
In this book, he completely won my heart when he becomes Meghan's knight.
In this book, his love for Meghan grows more.
Though it did shatter my heart to see him like that for Meghan, he did make me want to love him even more, if that's even possible.
Ash deserved to be happy and Puck let his feud with him go to hell for the sake of his friendship with Meghan and Ash. I love Puck so much.
Meghan and Ash have been exiled to the mortal world.
It's heart-warming that it is Meghan who touches his heart and brings out the real Ash. He hit all the right buttons for me.
Ash was fiercely protective of Meghan, yet tough on her too...
And regarding the ending, THANK GOD I knew ahead of time that there will be a fourth book in this series, The Iron Knight!!!
Knowing there will be more story got me through the ending of this one, even though the plot of this book had its conclusion.I tell you honestly...
Meghan and Ash are travelling to Louisiana, back to her family when they are attacked by iron fey intent on delivering her to the false King.
Meghan and Ash are soon joined by some old friends and set out on a quest to defeat the false iron king.
They know if the false king were to capture Meghan his strength will only grow thus allowing his tyranny to continue.
For the Fey Meghan's capture could put NeverNever at risk of becoming NeverAgain as the iron destroys more and more of Faery.
OH MY FEELS..... THAT ENDING! I am dead, seriously cannot cope 3 *Review to come*
Meghan Chase, Ash and Puck are still banished from their homes, but that will soon chance once Oberon and Mab realize they need their help to take down the false king.
I’ve grown to love these characters; their personalities, their wit, the strong bond they share… This feeling is the strongest with the ones we are most familiar with, but even the ones we only met briefly, or the ones who are already gone played a very specific part in this story, each being an ingredient for a very potent formula.Fast-paced, never a dull moment and action packed: this is the shortest way to describe this book.
★Mini review: This book was epic; read it.★(!Minor Spoilers!)Well, well, well, Ashallyn'darkmyr Tallyn, we finally know your True Name.
Who needs a knight when you're awesome Meghan Chase, who can fight like Rose Hathaway and is as brave as Tris Prior?As much as I liked the scenes with Meghan and Ash....
...I loved the parts with Meghan, Ash AND PUCK even more.
Maybe I actually thought I had a chance.
I admit that I was a bit taken aback by Ash's confession about having seduced and pretty much killed a human girl.
But I forgive you, Ash. You love Meghan now, so I guess you've changed.
Oh, Meghan-Ash-Puck.
Now,I don't know if I'm in love or if I'm pissed.
Oh well, I guess I can be both, right?
RIGHT?I don't know if I should rate it 4, 4.5, 5 stars.
No. Idea.
Truth to be told, that was amazing.
I love you all.This book is far from flawless, and contrary to many, that's not my favorite (nah, that's the first, I know, I'm a weirdo, blabla).
Review to come, somehow, when I'll finish all the freakin books of this series, finally finish my work, and sleep.
Oh, yes, sleep.
What a stranger concept right now.
It's the way things should be and I'm pleased that Julie remained faithful to her characters and the world they live in.But, dammme what an ending!?!?!Basically, I just loved the hell out of this book and this entire series.
It's always so much fun getting lost in this universe and swooning over these characters and I'm thrilled that the adventure doesn't stop here but continues on with Ash, in THE IRON KNIGHT!!If your ever going to pick up a Fey series, even if you don't care for this particular paranormal lore, then this is the series your going to want to read.
I knew it was coming but still was not prepared for the ending of this book. I love how it's all coming together. Puck just leaps off the page. The gremlins are so cute! This one is my favorite of the series so far. I adore Ash.
As can be told from my waxing on an on about Ash (see below if you don’t mind spoilers,) I am a big fan of his: Initially, I was all for Puck, but events in Iron Princess and Iron Queen have turned me into a card carrying member of team Ash. Though he is a big reason for my loving the series, he is not the only reason.
Realizing that as the half breed princess with an affinity for both summer and iron magic, everyone, and I mean everyone, will come after her and Ash, she seeks refuge with the Queen of the Exiles.
4.5 starsThis was just as good as the first time I read it years back. It's so much fun following the characters (especially Ash, who's amazing) and watching Meghan grow into someone stronger (finally). Plus, the world-building is original and intriguing - I never felt bored while reading this.Well, it's onto re-reading the final book!
xD Things I loved in this book:Meghan is now such a mature character, I couldn't possibly believe she was that selfish, annoying and irritating character in the beginning of the series.
Team Ash when hes with Meghan :D Win#2 Puck.
The ending was huge and marvelous and it just made me want to grab Iron Knight right now.
Win#5If theres anyone I love along with Puck and Ash, I would definitely say Grimalkin.
Win#6I love how the author also focuses on Meghan's family issues because most of the YA authors would have forgotten about them after the first book.
4.5 OH SHIT StarsOh nooooo....what the hell is that ending??Finally, as soon as Ash and Meghan find an ounce of happiness...only sadness results.UGH.Loving this and can't wait to see how this plays out in the next one!
“I guess I should’ve warned you that I have a slight possessive streak.” The Iron Fey series is one of my all time favourites.
Kagawa makes you wish that you were character in this book exploring Nevernever.
Ash, Razor, Meghan, Grim, Puck, they are all amazing.Meghan in the beginning is a little insecure (not in a bad and whiny way) but as the story goes on she becomes strong, confident and courageous.
I have especially taken a liking to Razor, a gremlin, he is both cute and crazy and I want one.The romance is beautiful.
But no - I got to be surprised (although I sometimes feel so unsurprisable): In most parts I liked The Iron Queen almost as much as The Iron King and in some parts (i.e. the number of Grimalkin dialogues, the multiple, fantastic steampunk elements, the Puck-and-Ash-banter and Meghan's personal growth) I think it even surpassed it in my eyes.Before reading The Iron Queen my guess about The Iron Knight/Ash's story was that we would be told some ancient story about his former self wooing Ariella or losing his soul or growing a heart or battling his brothers, but now I am pretty positive that Julie Kagawa is going to treat us with a narration of what happens after The Iron Queen - in Ash's point of view.
So one problem I've had with this series is that it's failed to leave me gobsmacked.
Don't get me wrong, it is really good, and I like everything that happens more or less, but after I put the books down after a reading session it isn't leaving me sat holding my head together to keep my mind from blowing.
This one was gonna be another 4 star book until the ending.
The end battle scene was just so great and I could imagine it vividly - it was really the highlight of the whole book so far.
Julia Kagawa wrote an incredible third book in the Iron Fey series.
Iron Queen starts with Ash and Meghan being cast out of Nevernever and talking about what to do next.
We don't have to wait long for Meghan being attacked - again from Iren Fey. This is when she realized that her journey has not ended yet and that she has to face the Iron Fey once more.
Puck and Grim are the ones that makes you laugh when everything seems darker and darker, they are the light source in every Iron Book so far.
4/5 🌟Dieser Teil hat mir bislang aus der Reihe am besten gefallen!Die Charaktere haben sich in eine tolle Richtung weiter entwickelt und die Beziehungen zwischen Ash, Meghan und Puck haben mir auch echt gut gefallen. Ich bin schon auf den 4. Teil gespannt!
It’s strange how a journey can change you, what you can learn from it. ~Meghan, The Iron Queen~Meghan, wow... you grew up. I still wanted to smack you sometimes, but I loved you. You showed me how important it is to fight for what's yours. No matter what's the cost. I adored your courage and hope. You're not a 16 years old teenage girl anymore. You're 17 now, and you're a warrior.  This was my story, our story. I would find a way for us both to live, to be happy. Ash, I'd thought I couldn’t love
You showed me how to love completely and unselfishly.
There are thousand ways of loving a woman, you did some of the best.
You made it clear that actions is always the best way to prove love, not words.
“You don’t know what real battle is like.
Goodfellow and I will protect you as best we can, but you will have to fight, and you will have to kill.
The Iron Queen was about love, friendship, family, and war.
I’m not afraid to die, but I don’t intend to give up, either.” His lips touched my hair, very lightly.
4.5 stars  How I enjoyed this book! I’d say it’s my favourite so far, but I have my hopes up for the fourth book, because so far my big problem with these books is one single person. Meghan. God. How she annoys the crap out of me. In this book she was slightly better I have to give her that. At least she wasn’t crying every five pages as usual. That’s an improvement. But she still is one of the most annoying characters I read about so far. Even though all that, this book was super awesome. My f
All the fighting and promises and vows and sacrifices, good Lord, it kept hooked till I had that feeling I needed to finish the book before I could move on with my life.So I already complained about Meghan, so I’ll say that I love both boys, my favourite is Puck for sure.
Not that I’d be all heartbroken if she ended up with Puck, but still, Team Ash. But I hope that Puck ends up with someone and not in a grave, like a certain book I read quite recently.
