https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51931.Jungle
Best true adventure jungle story I have ever read.Next, they killed two monkeys and a sloth for food, and I was feeling bad again, that being another time I wanted to quit the book, but then I settled down into the book.
Survival.Then their party got split up, the rains came, then the fire ants, flesh eating termites, jaguars, boars, bot fly larvae deposited under Yossi's skin by a mosquito, painful, peeling fungus on their feet and legs that made it hard for some of them to walk, and then Yossi, and his friend took a very dangerous raft trip.
The book opens with Yossi Ghinsberg's 'Acknowledgements': a page and a half of flowery, gushing, quasi-mystical thank yous.
I wonder if this is a translation - which might explain his style.I have read a few accounts of what could be labelled Travel Misadventures, Personal Disasters, or Idiots Taking Silly Risks & Living To Tell The Tale.
These include, Touching the Void: The True Story of One Man's Miraculous Survival, Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mount Everest Disaster, The Climb: Tragic Ambitions on Everest, and Into the Wild.
It's worth reading and I feel Yossi's tale will stay with me.
As far as the storyline goes, it is incredible, amazing, and a total 5 star entertainment keeping you on the edge of your seat until you finish the book.
Then, if you think that it is actually a true story, and that these people get into all that trouble because of their absolute stupidity and unawareness of what might be happening to them, you ask yourself "why should i give this book 5 stars"?
And so just about all that could go wrong goes wrong...
Three of the four men that this book is about are very unlikable; they are arrogant, brash and had zero respect for the jungle or its inhabitants.
They mistreat every animal they come across, kill things that they didn't need to and it was the scenes of animal cruelty that caused me to skip over pages entirely, and then put the book down.Then for some reason I started reading the reviews on Amazon.
Some reviewers agreed and said pretty much exactly what I was thinking, but one of them mentioned some deliberate lying that happened by the book's author, that got one of the men killed.
The main story (a jungle trek gone bad) is slow to get started, and the character interactions are not very believable, despite this being nonfiction. Much of the book is taken up with petty bickering between the characters. The story reads more like the diary of a junior high school girl than the survival story of a grown man. It only gets 2 stars because the adventure manages to shine through in parts. Overall not worth the time.
He meets up with a few other guys, including the middle-aged Karl, who dazzles him with stories of the jungle.
Some sections of the beginning bored me, and vegetarians are certain to be disgusted by it because these four guys kill animals right and left.
With all the hardships he faced, it's nothing short of a miracle that Yossi survived.And that brings me to the "religious" aspect of this book.
At the beginning of the book, he eats pig and even monkey right along with his friends.
But in the course of the book, he tells a story that I think most religious Jews will love.
I can easily picture him, backpack and guide book in hand, striking up conversations with people at hostels and in bars as many travelers are wont to do.
There they meet two other people, a new travel companion Kevin and a more odd, strange man, Karl, who offers them a chance of a lifetime; a hike into the jungle.
Now for people who travel, you man be amazed that Yossi and his friends would travel into the Amazon without first wondering about their guide, maybe do a little research to see if he has, I dunno, killed someone or if he's even who he claims to be.
Had to quit reading it...I normally love books like this, but Ghinsberg and his buddies were imperialistic idiots. I've read Amazonian accounts by men in the early 20th Century that sounded less bourgeois, arrogant and racist (he refers to indigenous tribes as "savages" on more than one occasion). If you're looking to read a better book on Amazonian adventures by white guys, read The Lost City of Z or The River of Doubt.
I like the non-fiction, lost in the jungle, adventures. Yossi’s story captivated me from page one. I actually shed a few tears, despite knowing that he (obviously) survived.
picked up this book in search of a nail biting adventure, instead I received a mind blowing, badly written, boring journal. I would rather read an account of someone who ventured into Walmart Asda to buy a pickled egg. I am shocked in regards to the authors lack of descriptive writing and to why he needs to literate boring details, such as eating a cucumber. it's as if a seven year old has written it...
What an adventure. Four young men from very diverse backgrounds meet in South America nd decide to "explore" the jungle. They had no idea what they were in for and were even less prepared for the trip. This book is about the essence of stupidity. A thrilling page turner with a surprise ending.
Seemed like a work of fiction. No one to back up the story and just seemed made up.
This is an account of actual events, narrated by Yossi Ghinsberg, making them a personal account of his survival during the two weeks he was lost in the Amazon rainforest.I will just start with a couple things I did not like.
It's worse when you realize it's the last interactions anyone will have with Marcus - he never does make it out of the jungle.The actual description of being swept away down the river, losing his friends, losing almost all of his gear, and struggling to figure out how to get to a village - all of that is harrowing.
That no one has seen Marcus since they parted ways with him and Karl.
As the story starts, we are introduced to a young Israeli named Yossi who then joins up with three other men to go deep into the Amazon Jungle.
With Yossi left with basically nothing to fend for himself deep within the Jungle, it takes a miracle for him to be found and it's then that he discovers that not everyone in the group is who they say they are in a stunning conclusion to this heart-racing adventure.
Just reading this book alone will make your heart race for what is happening within the pages!
Being a "mochilero" myself, a lot of feelings in the book are very relatable. Backpackers experience such a diverse palette of emotions while setting themselves in the unknown, be it the Amazon jungle or the concrete jungle. As for the book itself, it felt very much like I was being told a story by one of my elders, complete with words of wisdom at the conclusion of the book. A couple parts did drag on a bit, hence the 4 stars. All in all, I highly recommend the book. It is a fairly quick and easy read, full of adventure.
A remarkable adventure with themes of bravery, hope and human nature stripped bare by the wilds of the jungle. If your interest was piqued by the movie, you'll enjoy the book. Lots more detail about the jungle experience, and a long juicy epilogue.
I saw there was a movie based on this (I know, a lot of my posts start like that - just leave me alone) and I LOVE survival stories, so I gave this one a whirl.
Though I definitely agree that it was harrowing and that guy should not be alive, the book just didn't grip me as much as I thought it would.
The real survival story started about halfway through, and it was all narrated in first person, of course, but just not the greatest writing, though it did communicate his feelings (fear, excitement, hope, despair) very well.
This was tougher to get through than I thought it would be. :( FRTC.
The beginning didn't grab me, as I'm not much of an outdoorsman. However, whenever Yossi begins his adventures as a lost soul, I couldn't put this book down.
Good solid survival story, just like I like them!
Could’ve used a ghost writer.
Another reviewer placed this book in the category “Idiots Taking Silly Risks & Living To Tell The Tale". I agree. lolllIdiotic decisions:1. Went in the jungle on a whim during the rainy season (so it rained a lot almost every day) and the ground is constantly wet if not soggy (we don’t call it the rainforest for nothing)2. They walked so much in water that their boots fell apart3. Their guide wasn't a professional hiking guide; just a guy who pretended to know what he was doing (the guy in c
They didn’t know that the rain in this part of the world can be so abundant and the current so strong that it can completely disfigure the landscape, destroy shores, change the course rivers, and even remove islands from the map; their ignorance made them believe that they could locate themselves from landmarks such as beaches or islets8.
So they split up and 2 backpackers (Yossi, the author, and Kevin, his friend) went on without a guide11.
Yossi suffered from a serious inflammation of his feet (because they were constantly wet), but he decided to went on hiking anyway12.
Sincerely, I believe that the author deserved his bad luck.(view spoiler)[Note that finally they never retrieved Marcus, the guy who went with their guide after splitting in 2 groups.
I like stories based on real life events, from three reasons:1.
The fact the story is real helps me understand that the characters are true and alive (or might be alive, sadly).
Sometimes, in adventure books I feel like some characters are so magnificent or lionhearted that they just can't be real and Intelligible.
In the true story, I can point out characteristics of the character, and know that they were absolutely real: if someone is very brave and risk-taker, I will not doubt whatever she/he is brave or not because I know for sure it has all happened.2.
So, I find it easier to read about real places.
Wow. Any desire that I had of ever traveling through a jungle has just vaporized.Don't give up on this book half way because, like me, you thought this is the story of some ignorant young hippies who decide to brave mother nature without any preparation.
If you like the show Survivor, with all its soap opera drama, then you'll love the beginning part of this trip.
Four semi-acquainted non-Bolivian men decide to go out on the Bolivian jungle on their own.
I have no idea how Yossi Ghinsberg survived this trip, or how he remained hopeful most of the time that he'd be rescued.
It narrows Yossi Ghinsberg, Kevin Gale, Karl Ruchprecter, and Marcus Stamm excursion through the “Jungle” in attempts of survival.
In the “Jungle” Yossi, Kevin, Karl, and Marcus make no exception, through their compelling experiences and actions the authors gives the readers vivid representations of their harrowing encounters and survival.
The author uses imagery throughout the memoir to emphasize many of the alarming situations the characters encountered, making readers want to read more and more!
We imagine being stranded in a jungle and wonder if ourselves can survive, through his characters the readers can get a taste of who they are and what they felt during this excursion, transforming the memoir into a must read book!
As a survival story, it is pretty amazing as Ghinsberg survives starvation, jaguars, torrential rains and bugs before he is rescued.
However, it was difficult to like the book because I so disliked Yossi -- who created a good portion of his own troubles and fell in with someone who was very obviously at best a con man.
He appears to feel little remorse about one of his comrades, who was likely murdered (an idea that Ghinsberg doesn't even seem to entertain...) My dislike for the narrator definitely lessened my enjoyment of this book.
"La vida es bonita - Life is Beautiful"সতযিই জীবন অনেক সুনদর। এই খুটি বিহীন বিশাল আকাস, শানত সনিগধ হিমেল বাতাস, বয়ে চলা সরোতসবিনীর ছলাৎছলাৎ কাবয, ডানায় সবপনের রঙ নিয়ে ছুটে চলা পরজাপতি, পাখির কলতান। পরকৃতি খাবার দেয় আশরয়ও দেয়। পরকৃতির একেকটা উপাদান মিলিয়েই জীবন অনেক সুনদর হয়ে উঠে। কিনতু সতযিই কি পরকৃতি এত দয়ালু...? সবসময় ই কি পরকৃতি এত শানত থাকে...? নাকি পরকৃতিও মাঝে মাঝে খুব বিরুপ আচরণ করে যা ইতিহাসের পাতায় লিপিবদধ হয়ে উঠে...? "If someone above is watching over me, I thought, he'll surely provid

My mother lent me this book because she thought I would enjoy.
It's quite the adventure story!
I actually sat down and read the entire book in a single day, because I couldn't stop reading.
At first, it takes a chapter or two to adjust to Yossi's writing style, but once you have arrived in the Amazon rainforest, it's impossible to stop reading because you to know what happens next.
For me, having been in South America recently, in Peru and even in the rainforest, it was very easy to imagine the settings.
I'm glad I stayed in a rainforest lodge!
This is an amazing book. This book reads similarly to Touching the Void by Joe Simpson which I read earlier this year. Both are amazing stories about survival in the harshest of circumstances. I got extremely engrossed in Ghinsberg's story, really feeling the highs and lows of the journey as he related it. It seems easy to look back and pinpoint the mistakes the group made, but I guess when you are in that situation then things can seem very different.An excellent read.
An extremely interesting story of survival and the horrors of the psychological impact as well. I didn't care for his writing style, and he came across quite arrogant in the beginning of the book, which was a bit of turn off.Regardless, still a worthy read and am amazed he did survive, it was definitely close to hell he pulled through.
