https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52479.God_s_Trombones
The preface is equally strong, making a case that black preaching is a folk art worthy of preservation.See if you can read "Go Down Death - A Funeral Sermon" without getting a lump in your throat, no matter what your theology.
Here's an excerpt:And God sat back on his throne,And he commanded the tall, bright angel standing at his right hand:Call me Death!And that tall, bright angel called in a voiceThat broke like a clap of thunder:Call Death!
These wonderful poems have long been favorites of mine. James Weldon Johnson was a true scholar and artist.
His celebration of the African-American preacher in God's Trombones, published in 1927, is a masterpiece of American poetry.Johnson was inspired to write "God's Trombones: Seven Negro Sermons in Verse " after hearing a stirring African-American preacher in Kansas City in 1918.
Johnson wrote seven free-verse poems on biblical themes to capture the rhythm, content, language and religious commitment of the African-American preacher.
Johnson also wrote a celebrated prose introduction to the book in which he described the place of the preacher in African-American life and explained his decision not to use dialect in writing the poems.
[T]he emotional effect upon me was irresistible."The poetry opens with a short preliminary call to prayer, "Listen, Lord" followed by the seven sermons.
"When I start down the steep and slippery steps of death—When this old world begins to rock beneath my feet—Lower me to my dusty grave in peaceTo wait for that great gittin' up morning—Amen."
"Young man--Young man--Your arm's too short to box with God."I think you should read these poems. Other than that they give me chills and I want to hear them performed on stage, I don't really have much else to say about the whole situation. Read the poems, is what I'm saying.
Really enjoyed reading these. Truly poetic in every sense of the word.I remember hearing "Go Down, Death" from a film from the 1940s that used this poem as inspiration for the movie from this book, so it was interesting to read it.
Because of it's perfect thickness.Yesterday I decided that it was time to read the book.
Unfortunately our tortoiseshell noticed immediately that the door was not secure (or she noticed which book I was reading which led to her successful investigation).
I think it's time I go by Home Depot and pick up a proper door stop to protect my daddy's book and to keep peace in the home.I'll add a proper review when I've completed it.
It presents seven inspiring Negro sermons in verse.A thought-provoking statement comes from the Forward: “African Americans are the only people in the whole world and history who really practice Christianity.” No one else has ever found in their hearts the gift of forgiveness, the Forward claims.
African Americans forgave the slave owners who worked them without payment for 240 years.
This ability to forgive made many former slave owners uneasy, so incomprehensible was their forgiveness.These transplanted Africans accepted Jesus as their savior and laid all their worries on him.
God’s trombones—the old time Negro preachers—were powerful, eloquent figures in their community.
Originally published in 1927, God’s Trombones features seven popular African-American sermons structured as poems.
As Mr. Johnson writes in his introduction, his decision to write them as verse is to capture the lyrical, rhythmic style frequently used by African-American preachers.
The result is a lovely collection with a cadence and energy that jumps off the page.
My one complaint is that I wish there were more.
For those interested in either the historic or religious, this book is worth a read.
A note that I read an older edition of this book, which included both an introduction by Mr. Weldon and drawings by Aaron Douglas.
contains one of the most beautiful poems i've ever read..."Go Down Death (A Funeral Sermon)." i can only believe that Mr. Johnson *had* to have been overcome with Spirit when creating this phenomenal work. the clarity and strength of the images that spring up from his words is unbelievable. i've recited "Go Down Death" at the funerals for both of my grandmothers. even now, just reading it casually, i still get emotional just before the end of the poem.
Here in poetic form, James Weldon Johnson has captured the rhythms and cadence of the black preacher. "The Creation" was once memorized and recited at the graduations at segregated "colored" schools. This is the same man who wrote "Lift Every Voice and Sing", the Black National Anthem. This is a real African American classic.
What an incredible book of sermons! The imagery is incredible! loved this book, have read it twice so far
This is a marvelous little book. The sermons were some I had heard as a child, and they were such an inspiration to me. This book is a treasure.
It was like being in church (and suddenly made me wish to go).
Read my suggestions for a No-Bible Bible Study http://bit.ly/11YxPDS
Interesting filtering of Bible stories, through the voices of pre-civil rights black preachers, through Johnson's elegant but forceful poetry.I find it interesting that these are mostly Old Testament tales -- an angry, vengeful God. These preachers and their congregations were so profoundly sinned against; perhaps that made the idea of salvation for the good and hellfire for the evil particularly attractive.
My favorite short book of poetry ... Truly it's the sort of book that begs to be read aloud ... It's been a while since I first read these sermons in verse, but I plan to add to my list of books to be re-read on a regular basis this marvelous, slender volume ...
I recall reading some of these poems in high school, and not really grasping their power. This time I listened to these amazing poems "preached" in audio book format, where the real power of the poetry reveals itself.
Enjoyed this. The poems really gave you a sense of the sermons and the beats to hit and all that. The Prodigal Son was the most interesting, I thought, as it was a different sermon than I'd heard on that story.
"Young man --Young man --Your arm's too short to box with God."(21)
This book took me back to the church of my childhood. Powerful, soul stirring sermons. I loved it.
A classic worth re-reading anytime.
fast food
Read for Book Riot Read Harder 2018 Challenge - #15 A one-sitting book.
Full text with illustrations from an early edition: http://docsouth.unc.edu/southlit/john...
A masterpiece of rhythm and voice. In his preface, Johnson laments the passing of the African American revivalist preacher; he needn't have worried, for he has captured the eloquence and power of such sermons with the fervency of a true devotee. More than sermons, though, these poems are a moving testament to the electric artistry of the Harlem Renaissance. God's Trombones reveals something new about itself every time I read it. It is a must-read for any student of religious literature, jazz-age poetry, or African American history.
This little collection of sermons is amazing. And Johnson's 1927 preface is a must read - it offers an an insightful and enjoyable explanation for his choice of the book's title. These sermons are placed in verse and read with the shear power, severity, eloquence, and emotion that is so inherent to the black folk tradition of early 20th century.
Wonderful. Ðe auþor was not really a Christian, so he only set in verse sermons he remembered from his youþ from folk preachers; ðe result does contain a few heresies, such as God feeling lonely and creating by acts (not speech), but yet is deeply moving.To read aloud.
God's Trombones: Seven Negro Sermons in Verse by James Weldon Johnson (Viking Press 1969)(811). This is a transcription in verse form of seven famous and fabulous sermon topics in the Black church tradition. This is beautiful poetry. My rating: 7/10, finished 1975.
A beautiful dedication to the Black Southern preacher. James Weldon Johnson poetic verses are quite inspirational.
