https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/619916.Children_of_the_Flames

The style of chronicling the lives of many people in this way might work for a newspaper series that is broken into stages over many days, but for a book, it doesn’t quite work.
My father, Zvi’s twin, was never interviewed for his account.
Lucette Lagnado very kindly replied to me within 24 hours (during a book tour on New Year’s Eve, no less) when I asked her why she never interviewed my father.
If you read the book, Zvi the Sailor claims he sent his twin brother, my father, money from Israel to America.
Either way, she made the deliberate choice not to interview a living twin.
Which is not to say that that's a bad thing, but don't expect it to read like a novel, because it's more like a history book/documentary type than anything else.
Although his life story was told in counterpoint to the lives of the surviving twins, they were not the focal point of the book.
While their accounts were emotional, the twins did not have a major role in the book, and were undeveloped as characters - presented only as victims and survivors, not as people - and I would have liked to hear more about them and their experiences rather than Mengele's life.
Not for the faint of heart. This book is a really interesting story of Dr Mengele. History like this should never be forgotten or overlooked.
(He is not a doctor as the authors mentioned in this book, so why call him a doctor in the title I do not understand by the way) This book was most about Mengele life after the war.
It got confusing to me reading about the twins because of the way the book was written.Every time at least one twins story will be there but then you have to go back to see which twin was this again?)As someone else said.
it is sad and there are so many of these sad stories tons of books could be written about it.
Alternating passages between recollections of the twins and biographical details of Mengele's life worked well and kept the book interesting to the end.
A disturbing yet truly interesting account of Dr. Josef Mengele and the twins who were personally selected subjects for his heinous medical experiments at Auschwitz.
In the end, though Mengele was never captured or convicted by a court of law, he did lose his family and his fortune, and his medical degrees were stripped while his mentor and many other former Nazis went on to lead successful and fulfilling lives after the war.
Those who are interested in hearing more about the twins and their lives in the camps as well as the difficulties they had after returning home from Auschwitz should view the documentary, "Forgiving Dr. Mengele".
Since I spent the summer reading about the history of the second World War, and have done a lot of thinking about the topic, I that I was finally capable of truly putting the holocaust in its proper context.
This book is laid out in an unusual fashion: it alternates between memories of the twin survivors and a chronology of the life of Josef Mengele, a.k.a.
That is a perfect description of the damned doctor.
Let me start out by saying, if you have any interest in this subject at all, give this book a read.
It focuses on the people involved, instead of on the particulars of what took place, so I was able to absorb a lot of information and still come away from it actually thinking instead of just having nightmares.
Their personal tales of overcoming adversity and continuing to live after their suffering contrast sharply with the description of Mengele's decades-long downward spiral following the end of the war.Usually, after I've read a non-fiction book, that's the end of it.
This is a Good book to read simply because of the notes from the 'Twins of Auschwitz.' I think there is way too much info on Josef Mengele, a ruthless killer, and not enough info on the Twins story. The Twins story begins as they entered Auschwitz and ends on what their current circumstances were at the publishing date of 1991. I could easily have rated this book as a 3 but the letters/interviews were well worth the reading of this book.
This was an odd little book.The premise is quite interesting: it follows the Mengele twins' (the ones the author could find) lives before, during, and after Auschwitz, and follows Mengele's life as well.
The author creates what another viewer called a "documentary style" book, where as Mengele's life unfolds, so do the twins...so for example, as Mengele flees Germany to go to Argentina, we also "cut to" several of the twins' accounts of their own flight from Germany to Israel/Western Europe/the US, as Mengele remarries, we "cut to" several twins' accounts of their romances and marriages, etc.And in a visual style, this would have been brilliant.
And as such they were spared the random selections and march to the gas chambers that threatened every other Auschwitz inmate'.The testimony of a handful of survivors illustrates the horror of Mengele and Auschwitz, and the scars of the experiences suffered by his victims, and how they experienced them through their lives.In the testimony of Moshe Offer, who was twelve years old at the time: 'When they opened the doors to our cattle cars, there were lots of dead children.
Before I read this book just reading the title “Children of The Flames” sounded very terrifying, because it sounds like it’s going to be about burning children!This book set up in a way such as memories of the twin survivors and the life of Josef Mengele, or know as "The Angel of Death!" The twins' memories are very sad and painful to hear sometimes.
This was very heartbreaking and cruel in many ways.People got away and survived, but way too many children were lost and never found again!I cannot believe that Mengele never got caught and I am pretty sure he would have been killed for the things he has done.
He had a relatively normal life before WWII.
The book draws light on part of the Holocaust that isn't as well known.
Also, it shows how inept some of the prosecution of the Nazis was, as Mengele was able to live out the rest of his life in relative comfort.
Sometimes books aren't fun to read, but necessary to understand just how evil humans are capable of being.
And its good to read about something different than what we usually discuss because it makes the Holocaust more vivid, and keeps us from growing accustomed or even accepting of thoughts of it.
This book has staggered and stunned me, leaving my emotions like damp washrags in a heap.
This non-fiction book was written by an author who tracked down some of the remaining twins from Josef Mengele's infamous twin experiences at Aschwitz-Birkenau which was no easy task as out of 3,000 twins, only around 88 had survived and only because the Russians liberated the camp.
They went through many interviews and this book tells their stories in their own words, intertwined with Mengele's own life story.
It is incredible to discover that despite the torment he put them through, even now many twins are convinced Mengele loved them.
Oh boy. This is a truly sobering read. Twins were Mengele's favorite subject, and his experiments were truly horrific. What's interesting about this book is through the words of the surviving twins, we learn how some of them grew to trust Mengele, in large part because he kept them from the crematoriums. It's also an interesting insight into Mengele himself, how he grew up, and how he handled himself at the camps. The point of a finger, and he rules lives.Lori AndersonBlog Shop Facebook

A must read. So different to a lot of the holocaust books I've read, this book gives you an insight to what happened to twins during this period as well as through the years after the war as well as 'the angel of death' dr Josef mengele. Think it is very well written and didn't find it hard to keep up with the author as she switched between the dr and the different twins like some others have mentioned. Definately one to read.
For more go to http://marwez.blogg.se/?tmp=723733
Of course, very seldom do we find a satisfactory answer, and that is the case here.How is it possible that so many educated, cultured human beings could perpetrate mass murder?
I found it rather ironic that the book reported that Mengele suffered from sleeplessness and paranoia, very similar to that experienced by his victims.
It's natural to want to punish a perpetrator for his crimes - to obtain a measure of justice for the victims.
However, who is to say that perhaps Mengele suffered more by living in "freedom" than if he had been caught?
Did he deserve to suffer more?
It took me years to get up the nerve to read this book.
I don't even know for sure why I wanted to read it.
Towards the end, however, it seemed far more like a book on Mengele than on the twins.
In fact, it started reading like a book on Mengele's "retirement years"!
I think they should have just concentrated on the twins' stories and their memories of the doctor, and left Mengele's life story to those with keener knowledge and deeper insight about the nature of his evilness.
they should have left Josef Mengele's story to the big boys.
Most people have a story to tell about their past, but the people from Auschwitz have a more unique story than you think.
In the book Children of Flames by Lucette Matalon Lagnado it talks about some of the untold stories of the twins in Aushwitz and stories about Dr. Josef Mengele.
After the war, the author was able to write in great detail what the twins unique personalities were like.
Some of the twins, after the war, were very scared and were not able to stop thinking about what had happened to them.
An excellent biography of Mengele that is framed around interview excerpts from the twins he experimented on and tortured in Auschwitz.
The juxtaposition of what the twins went through--first at the camps, and then in the many years after--and Mengele's own life is a study in sharp contrasts.
Where the twins struggle after the war, Mengele thrives courtesy of Pro-Nazi sentiment in South America.
But, as the twins keep living and keep existing, Mengele's own fortune starts to turn against him.
This was a very insightful read into the events that created the "Angel of Death" of the concentration camps.I was initially worried if it would hold my interest, the way it was formatted took a moment to get used to. Definitely worth the read, once you get hooked in it just flows on, and on, until you realize you just got done with the last page!
I had higher hopes for this book.
It was horrific, this moment in time, and reading about what these kids went through is gut-wrenching.
Still, I think we need to keep reading about it, keep learning.
That said, I think I need to read the book about the nurse.
Perhaps because I know more about that part of the story?
I don't know.
I didn't mind it at first, but once he was in South America, I felt like the book became too much about him.
It's not that the book was bad, it was either just boring or that I didn't like the way the book was set up. Switching back and forth between "positive" descriptions of Mengele to the actual henious mengele. Or the fact that the book took forever to get to the part you really want to know about: the "untold" part of the twins stories. That's what I wanted to hear, not personality studies on the doctor himself. I did not finish the book, maybe I'll pick it up again when the interest strikes me.
The first few chapters are about the twins and their time in Auschwitz and Bergen-Belsen. But much of the book I ended up skimming, as it is more about their lives now (or in the 80s or whenever it was that this book came out) and that didn't interest me as much. However, it was certainly worth reading. Recommended if you have an interest in Mengele and the concentration camps of World War II. Sad book, heart-touching, but we need to know!
Just when I thought I knew all that happened in the Holocaust I read this book and learn other horrors. It was heartbreaking to see what these young children were put through at the hands of a terror, Josef Mengele. I did like that they most were able to go on and lead their lives, but these horrors will live with forever. What a horrible man he was, and that he was never brought to justice makes it so much worse.
The subject matter is very interesting, and it is what compelled me to continue reading even when the style of writing was frustrating. The author seems to stick to a timeline, but the intermingling of Mengele's biography with the twins' stories is disjointed and serves to do an injustice to the power of the twins' memories. I would have been interested in reading a more thorough story about the twins' experiences.
I wanted to rate this higher, but seeing how it is called "Children of the Flames," I really imagined it would speak more to those children. I found the interrupting stories distracting, rather than helpful. I feel like it was a biography of Mengele with bits of the twins thrown in here and there. The style wasn't my favorite, so I took it down a star (I'm too picky to give 5 stars to very many anyway).
