https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/116494.Anastasia_Krupnik
And I guess I should also perhaps admit that when I first read Anastasia Krupnik, my initial reaction (especially towards the scene where Anastasia shares her supposedly failed poem with her father and the fact that he is not only accepting of her, but offers praise while also allowing himself to be openly critical of her teacher) was both intensely positive and congratulatory, but also one of serious and almost tearful envy (as my own parents would NEVER have acted this way, would ALWAYS have taken the part of the teacher in no uncertain terms, and were generally only interested in my endeavours and issues when there were issues, and potential problems, as parental praise was seen as promoting possible boastfulness).Sadly, Anastasia Krupnik and actually the entire series, is a continuous resident on the list for frequently banned and challenged books in the USA, often because of the fact that curse words are used and presented.
Anastasia reminds me a lot of myself at that age, so I probably just thought it seemed normal.But now!
I was reading this at lunch and I had to stop because I kept laughing and my co-workers were staring at me.For example:"Anastasia had a small pink wart in the middle of her left thumb.
She found her wart very pleasing.
they come and go without any reason at all, rather like elves."I love her parents (and how terrifying is it that her mother and I are now the same age?).
I reread the book a few years ago, for the first time since middle school, probably, and listening to it on audio brought back that same feeling.
C.J. Critt does a great job of inhabiting the world of a ten-year-old, but she inserts these long pauses into the narrative as if waiting for a slow reader to follow along the page with her.
It doesn't look like the rest of the series is available on audio through my library (or maybe at all), but I'm eager to reread the whole series and discover more bits I'd forgotten (I know there's a character named Lloyd later in the series because I distinctly remember someone insisting it be pronounced "Yoyd").
Even ones I read as a kid have held up when I reread them in recent years.However, I did not care for this book.Why?
Add to that a usage of the s-word and a sexual description of the Catholic sign of the cross--seriously!--and this was a dud.The only reason I gave it two stars was because I liked the ending; however, I won't be reading any of the sequels.(Why do these "classic" kids' books often end up being such garbage?
We need a sleuth like Sherlock Holmes or Jessica Fletcher to investigate!)
I enjoyed this book when I was ten years old myself. Now, not so much, but it's still a great coming-of-age novel that inspires young readers to get to know their elders before it's too late and to accept changes in the familiar family dynamics.
My 7-year-old just read this, so I had to pick it up and and reread parts. It is even MORE awesome than I remembered. How I wish I were as cool a parent as Anastasia's parents.Also, it inspired my daughter to write poetry. Terrible poetry, but still.
Just reread this. Such a delightful book, and even though it's copyrighted 1979, it barely feels dated. The only things that do feel dated is that there are things in it that would not fly in childrens books today (like Anastasia's parents letting her have a sip of their wine or beer, or the wonderful name that she comes up with for her unborn brother, which I will not spoil because I forgot it and it made me laugh out loud when I got there).
I haven't re-read this book since I was a child. Some thoughts:1) As far as final lines go, "With mushrooms!" is a pretty great one.2) I totally forgot how this book made me want to answer the phone by saying "For whom does this bell toll?" Ambition resumed.3) I am feeling somewhat miffed that the sequels are not available on my library's streaming audio services. Were they even ever recorded? This is a truly unfortunate situation.
I read this for my book club where we reread books we read when we were younger, but this was the first time I'd ever read it. I wish I'd read it when I was 10 because of great lines like this: "I need to start worrying about making myself some memories" or this: "These are the most important things that happened the year that I was ten: I began to have a mercurial temperament." Or all of her wart references. This is such a smart, insightful book for kids, but I thoroughly enjoyed it, too.
When I was around this age, I wanted to be Anastasia so much! She was cool. She wore glasses like me. She didn't understand boys, just like me. As the series continued, I loved how quirky and interesting she was. My favorite was Anastasia, Ask Your Analyst, in which she got a bust of Sigmund Freud and used him as an actual therapist. Completely genious. As someone who was often misunderstood, I could relate to Anastasia on a completely different level!
Um, a precocious girl who writes in a notebook all the time, likes lists and poetry, and uses words like jocund and indefatigable after looking them up in the dictionary, keeping a list of her favorite words in said notebook? No wonder I loved this as a child. Also, the parents cuss and are blase about it. I'm sure that delighted me as well.
So I read this book aloud to my daughter and I had to gloss over some areas.
Despite being dated, letting her drink the foam from her fathers beer, the mentioning of her dad drinking beer is something you don't see in many books today aimed at that age group, being home alone at 10.
But there are other issues that no matter when the book was wrote it still hit home.
Both me and my daughter really enjoyed this book and this character, we hope the library has the next in the series.
The rare re-read of a childhood favorite that TOTALLY lives up to my memories of reading it originally. I read this aloud to Sofie and she loved it too. Anastasia's family remains the coolest. And there is no way any middle grade book today would get away with that One Ball Reilly punchline. Or a poetry professor dad who smokes and swears in class and lets his 10-yr-old sip the foam off his beer.
My oldest daughter adored the Anastasia series when she was in late elementary school, but strangely enough, I've just read the first novel in its entirety.
I love the character of Anastasia: she is wholly original, an independent thinker, but also a girl who realistically captures the emotionally "mercurial" state of being 10 years old.
So many fictional girls of this age are precocious in the bratty, smart-aleck sense of the word, but Anastasia is pert in a more loveable and unique way.
A good read-aloud between mother and daughter, with a nice sprinkling of mother-only-will-appreciate-it moments.
She has a green notebook where she keeps her most important thoughts, her loves and hates, and cool new words.
This is a story about what happens to Anastasia the year she is 10.I loved this book, Anastasia was hilarious!
I kind of wish I'd read this as a kid, because I loved the themes and thoughts of this precocious ten-year-old.
I also loved how Anastasia's feelings and dynamics changed throughout the story, especially in regards to her parents and her grandmother.
Such a great story, I will likely pick up the second book in the series to see where it goes.
This book has a copyright date of 1979, and it 's the first in a series, but I had never heard of it until I picked it up at my library today.
How did I miss these books when I was an avid reader kid?
Strange!In this book, Anastasia is 10 years old.
She is smart and feisty and clever, spunky and a bit sassy, but not a pain in the neck like that Junie B.
I like Anastasia, I wish she had been my friend when I was ten.I have a bunch of the other books in the series, just waiting for me to read them.
Can't wait!
I LOVED this book as a kid - to the point that I even named my goldfish Frank so that I could be more like Anastasia - and I think it held up to an adult re-read.I wonder if this book contributed to my love of making lists.
This is the sweetest of the Anastasia books, but it's still funny. I'm rereading this series and I've realized they're total comfort reading for me.
I barely remembered any of this one. Though Anastasia is just 10 in it, it was a slightly awkward read-aloud for my six-year-old here and there (sex jokes she probably didn't get), but still had some lovely parts. The one I really remember is the sequel, where they move to the house with the tower.
Lois Lowryn "Minä Anastasia" (Otava, 1986) kertoo kymmenvuotiaasta Anastasia Krupnikista, joka pohtii maailman menoa persoonallisen syvälliseen tapaansa ja laatii listoja niistä asioista, joista hän pitää ja joista hän ei pidä.
Listan jälkimmäiselle puolelle päätyy - maksan, opettajan ja poikien lisäksi - myös perheen uusi vauva, josta vanhemmat eivät ole neuvotelleet lainkaan Anastasian kanssa, ja joka sen vuoksi tulee saamaan kamalan nimen.Lowryn romaanissa hieman pikkuvanha mutta siitä huolimatta raikkaan realistisesti kuvattu Anastasia tulee mietiskelleeksi niin syntymää kuin kuolemaa, niin rakkautta kuin runoutta ja ties mitä muuta.
Painavista teemoista huolimatta romaanin yleissävy ei ole mitenkään raskas, vaan pikemminkin lempeän humoristinen.
I was pretty committed to the Ramona books when I was a kid, but I think I read at least one of these?
As an adult, I have read a lot of Lowry's work and I think she is fantastic.
Her work is a lot deeper than the Ramona books, so I have shared it with my 13 year old daughter, but I also wanted to introduce her to my 7 year old daughter.
I decided on Anastasia.
We both really liked this book.
We laughed out loud when she revealed the name she was going to choose for her baby brother.
This was the first book in the Anastasia series that was read for the Goodreads children's fiction book club.
I don't know why I hadn't read it before.
Lowry's ability to describe in depth the life of a ten year old child made the story perfect.
I loved all the characters and how the parents allowed Anastasia to make her own choices in her life.
As they explained to her, these would be her memories for later in life.
There are many books in the series and I hope to read more of them.
Anastasia Krupnik is stupidly charming and these books are charmingly written.
I loved them when I was a kid and went through a phase this summer where I reread the ones I had loved and a few I had missed growing up.
The later ones are hit and miss, but never bad.
I don't know if it is that Anastasia's family is so realistic or if her family is just similar in ways to mine was when I was a young girl, but there is something so homey and comforting about her world.
(Really, I want to know!)
Anastasia books were some of my favorite as a child so I decided to reread this to see how it held up over time.
I loved it again!
She's funny, smart, and I love her family.
TWICE the book describes Anastasia as having blonde/yellow hair so why would they put a brunette on the cover?
If the book makes a point to describe something then the cover should reflect that.
It looks like the earlier covers from the 1970's both had a blondes--but after that they messed it all up.
Her brother is a blonde too!
Re-read after seeing it for sale on Kindle. Still just as good as when I was 11. Remember "One-Ball Reilly" ? How did Lois Lowry get away with THAT?
Sometimes reading childhood favorites as an adult is a disappointment (like realizing how sexist Caddie Woodlawn is), but I was completely charmed by this book.
I’ve always been obsessed with notebooks (even if I never actually write in them, haha) and I think I can trace that affinity back to this book.
But somehow, I always find the motivation to keep going -- I think I don’t want to let down that ten-year-old version of myself who always fancied herself a writer.Thanks, Anastasia, for planting the seed that I could actually do it.
I had my kids each pick out a couple of books for me to read, and I started with Anastasia Krupnik. I am still not sure if I read this as a kid or not, but I found the story quite enjoyable. I loved how Anastasia's lists of things she loves and things she hates kept changing with every chapter.
Needed something familiar to read 💜
I read this countless times as a child and it feels very weird to be reading it at HER MOM'S AGE. But it made me laugh out loud many times and now I want to reread the rest of the series.
i think this book is really good. I recommend this book to girls who really are girly. Even though I am not super girly I still really like this book
