https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17378508-blue-lily-lily-blue
He's my favorite Raven Boy, like I mentioned a hundred times already.
He's also spending more time with Ronan, if you know what I mean.
Blue's trying to find her missing mother and is dealing with her feelings towards Gansey at the same time.
If you're expecting kisses in this book, like me, you'll just going to have to wait for the 4th installment.
Even though the book was focused towards the character development, romance was pushed even further out back.
I can't wait for the next book because I feel that's when Pynch is going to happen.
How Maggie does this every time, I don't know.
I had no idea going into this world that I would be so addicted to the writing style and the perfectly build up sequences—yet here I am writing this review in the middle of night because I can’t stop thinking about everything that went down in this book.This book is set shortly after the events of The Dream Thieves, Blue and the raven boys continue on with their quest to find Glendower, the Raven King.Maura is still underground in hopes to find Artemus and other mysterious things.
More heartbreaking kisses, please. Though I don't know if my heart can take it.
Faith in humanity Young Adult Lit restored  “Blue,” he warned, but his voice was chaotic. This close, his throat was scented with mint and wool sweater and vinyl car seat, and Gansey, just Gansey.She said, “I just want to pretend. I want to pretend that I could.”   I would normally poke fun at YA for the  drama and the weird boy-smells but I honestly can't. Maggie Stiefvater has done such a wonderful job building this story that there's no room to be a sarcastic little snit about it. It would
This close, his throat was scented with mint and wool sweater and vinyl car seat, and Gansey, just Gansey.She said, “I just want to pretend.
I want to pretend that I could.” 
Maggie Stiefvater has done such a wonderful job building this story that there's no room to be a sarcastic little snit about it.
Blue, Gansey, Ronan, Adam and Noah are about to go on one hellofa journey.
Maggie Stiefvater creates such well-fleshed out characters that I sometimes forget they aren't real.
I just want them all to be real.
Adam was beginning to realize that he hadn't known Ronan at all.
I don’t really know how she does it, but she’s soo damn good at what she does that it’s almost impossible not to love her books!!!
XDThis book was so marvellous!!I loved “The Raven Boys”,I adored “The Dream Thieves” BUT I was a complete sucker for “Blue Lily, Lily Blue”!!!If it wasn’t already official, it definitely is now!
And he was right: Gansey didn’t want to know.”As always, Adam was reminded of how Ronan belonged in this place.
Adam had always thought that was what he wanted – for Gansey to know.
I know, I know. Please don't judge me, I'm sick.But it's the sweetest kind of addiction. The one that doesn't let you sleep at nights because your thoughts wander into faraway lands and your heart beats fast for the people you came to love deeply even though they're the products of someone else's brilliant mind and beautiful soul. And I'm not alone, because I'll see you all in therapy, right? Right?  “Queens and kingsKings and QueensBlue lily, lily blueCrowns and birdsSwords and thingsBlue lily,
One missing mother.Two arrivals that will endanger everyone in little Henrietta.Three sleepers, one to wake up, one to not wake up, and one in between.Four boys, a magician, a ghost, a dreamer, a king.And a promise of death as the result of true love's kiss.
Blue Lily, Lily Blue's atmosphere is heavy and ominous as time passes by, as Gansey's death seems more probable and Blue's love for him intensifies, as more and more people search for the Welsh king and the evil sleeper uses all his mighty force to make someone awaken him.
*4.5*It's been a while since I've marathoned an unfinished series and I'm really upset that I have to wait like 5 months for the next book. Dang. Ronan still on point. Always and forever. 4/25/15 UpdateSCRATCH THAT. I HAVE TO WAIT UNTIL FEBRUARY NOOOOOOO
HOW DO YOU WRITE A REVIEW OF A BOOK THAT YOU LOVED SO MUCH IT MAKES YOUR HEART WARM AND IT RESTORED YOUR FAITH IN YA AND EVERYTHING IS GOOD IN THE WORLD WHEN YOU THINK ABOUT IT AND FLOWERS BLOOM AND BIRDS FLOAT AROUND YOUR HEAD AND SING OR TWEET OR WHATEVER IT IS THEY DO.https://emmareadstoomuch.wordpress.co...No, seriously, please tell me how.
That horribly boring and blah relationship is...sigh...Blue and Gansey.
(I do not know why this is true, because his literal defining characteristic is that he is gray, but I love him anyway.) AND PLUS, NEW PEOPLE COME.
“Mornings like this one were made for memories.”  Isn't it the most obscure and abnormal concept that a book filled with random sequences of the alphabet put together to make some sense, can act as a catalyst to generate a chemistry lab full of emotions? Essentially, you could have an infinite amount of books with the same character count as an airline flight safety manual, but those random string of words put together in just a handful of books can make you feel so intensely. This is what The
300 Fox Way and it's residents will forever be a love of mine, and although the plot of the story (personally) is very character driven - we get so many 'paranormal' facets that makes the whole story fly off the pages.
We got the boys being boys, we saw how each of the gang is slowly growing up and on, we get to witness them falling in love etc.
I loved the chemistry we got with Adam and Ronan in this edition, not to mention Blue and Gansey have been a ship from day one - so the progress with them makes my heart happy.
“I think it's crazy how you're in love with all those raven boys.”
Blue Lily, Lily Blue (BLLB) will probably be an easy 5 stars read for those of you who have no qualm with the genre in general.One of the problems I had with 'The Dream Thieves' was that I feel like that there’s a lack of satisfaction in the sense of plot progression to the main plot in exchange for full characterization.
However, in the end, there’s no doubt that this series main strength still lies in the characterization and Maggie’s prose.Remember what I said in my previous review that Ronan Lynch is one of the most well-written character in the entire YA genre?
Somehow, despite how abstract and engrossing the plot points are, it doesn’t feel like the focus of the story.
I don’t understand people who claim this book is a ‘filler.’ The sheer amount of development here was phenomenal.
I don’t know what I’ll be if I’m not looking for him.
What is the deal with the singing?-	Henry Cheng seems to exist here primarily to set him up for the next book, and I’m not sure what to think.
Self-proclaimed feminist Blue addresses characters who feel her ‘story’ didn’t start until she met the boys.
I've been with him for 3 books and I just love him more and more and he and Blue are adorable.
I really love books about friendship, okay?But let's talk a little about all the characters, shall we?!
"I think it's crazy how you're in love with all those raven boys."*It was true that Blue was just shy of five feet and it was also true that she hadn't eaten her greens, but she'd done the research and she didn't think the two were related.*As they moved through the old barn, Adam felt Ronan's eyes glance off him and away, his disinterest practised but incomplete.
SPOILER FREE REVIEW: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DT3ya...So glad my order of The Raven King came in today so I don't have to wait to finish the series!
*finishes The Dream Thieves**deep breath**dying whale noises*I NEED THIS BOOK NOWI CAN'T BELIEVE I HAVE TO WAIT ANOTHER YEARTHE FEELS
If Gansey dies, I too, will die.
×××May contain minor spoilers×××   "Queens and kingsKings and queensBlue lily, lily blueCrowns and birdsSwords and thingsBlue lily, lily blue"  This book is nothing like I expected. This book was everything I wanted it to be. The book gave me chills, it broke my heart. It made me laugh, it made me mad. It made me crazy. It made me cry - not a lot, not as much as The Raven Boys or The Dream Thieves but little silent tears pooling up in my eyes.This book, at parts, made me forget that Richard Cam
It made me cry - not a lot, not as much as The Raven Boys or The Dream Thieves but little silent tears pooling up in my eyes.This book, at parts, made me forget that Richard Campbell Gansey was going to die.
This book had more Gansey x Blue moments in it.
Adam who is doing school, after school jobs, realizing that Blue might not be for him after all, letting go of his stupidity a little at a time by realizing that letting Gansey be his friend is not necessarily being beholden to Gansey.
She stood on the ledge of his smile and looked over the edge.”Even though I always feel like I don't understand a thing that is going on in those books, they are just beautiful.
Maybe exactly because I don't understand a thing: They always surprise me, I never know what to expect next but I am never let down.I think this third installment was the best so far.
I really hope that Ronan and Adam are going to be a thing!
Though I still think that Ronan is an asshole, he just makes me angry...And wow what this book made to my heart!
Omaiga.
▒ My ten favorite things about Blue Lily, Lily Blue ▒ "Ronan kept going, his voice louder. "No. Do you hear me, Cabeswater? You promised to keep me safe. Who are we to you? Nothing? If you let him die, that is not keeping me safe. Do you understand? If they die, I die, too."  To the surprise of absolutely nobody, Ronan takes the first place hands down even without having any chapter from his point of view. Actually, after the intensity of The Dream Thieves, getting to observe him through other's
➋ Blue Lily, Lily Blue will be forever remembered as The Book Where I Finally Love Adam.
As they hurtled towards the BMW, Adam realised that Ronan, as usual, had no intention of stopping before something bad happened.
meanwhile, Ronan and Adam kept disappearing together.*Almost* every favorite scene stars them : the BARN.
➓ It's official : there's nothing like a Raven Boys reread to make yourself feel a special kind of stupid; so many hidden details that came to light, I can't even.
"Queens and KingsKings and QueensBlue lily, lily blueCrowns and birds Swords and thingsBlue lily, lily blue"  I just bought about 16 books last week but they all can wait. I'm going to re-read this baby first! You know why? Because Ronan freaking Lynch, and Adam Parrish live in this. <3“Behind him, he heard Ronan say, "I like the way you losers thought Instagram before first aid. Fuck off.” I love this quote! It's just so... Ronan!Ronan:“I know when I'm awake and when I'm asleep,"Adam:"Do y
Because Ronan freaking Lynch, and Adam Parrish live in this.
Adam Parrish and Ronan Lynch are my new obsession!
I loved them individually in previous books but together they are incomparable.
but then that is the beauty of their relationship, it's nobody else's business but theirs.“Ronan Lynch lived with every sort of secret."“Ronan was angry,every one of his emotions that wasn't happiness was anger.”[image error]“Ronan's second secret was Adam Parrish.”“Sometimes Ronan thought Adam was so used to the right way being painful that he doubted any path that didn’t come with agony.”“Adam felt Ronan’s eyes glance off him and away.
One of the reasons I fell in love with this series it's that the plot is so strange and different from every book I've ever read.
There was more balance in a way and I really liked that this time the plot was moving forward as much as the characters.
I loved it because it wasn't too much, but it was in the small details, in the way Gansey was always looking forward to her calls, late at night, in the way they touched their hands, in their subtle glances.
(Also, chapter 26 is...read it and come back because I need to talk about it.)"Blue called Gansey.He picked up at once.
#1 The Raven Boys ★★★★★#2 The Dream Thieves ★★★★★#3 Blue Lily, Lily Blue ★★★★★#4 The Raven King ★★★★★#4.5 Opal ★★★★★ Blue was perfectly aware that it was possible to have a friendship that wasn’t all-encompassing, that wasn’t blinding, deafening, maddening, quickening. It was just that now that she’d had this kind, she didn’t want the other. Where do I even begin? This review took me six weeks to write, and it's literally only because I loved it so much that I don't know how to describe it. I we
He puts his foot in his mouth constantly, but this book has the best examples so far of how much he loves his friends and the lengths he would happily go to for them, whether it's terror-filled drives in the countryside, looking for Blue, or going against Adam's wishes to protect him one more time from his father.
On the one hand, you have Ronan and Adam, who have every opportunity in the world to be together, but don't know how to put their feelings into words; on the other hand, you have Gansey and Blue, baring their souls to each other in late night phone calls and car drives, desperately trying not to reach for the forbidden fruit.
I’ve been reading good books so far this year then this comes and ruins my streak.
And yes, I will be reading the last book because I own a copy.20/03/2018: lmao the time has come for me to try this book again.
2018 IS THE YEAR I READ ALL BOOKS ON MY ON-HOLD SHELF.
It's been two days since I've started this and I've only read 30 pages.
Besides, I'm thinking of other books to read at the moment.
Hands down my favorite one in the series so far <3
“Blue,” he warned, but his voice was chaotic. This close, his throat was scented with mint and wool sweater and vinyl car seat, and Gansey, just Gansey.She said, “I just want to pretend. I want to pretend that I could.” This is my favorite so far, I'm in love!  “Queens and kings, Kings and queens. Blue lily, lily blue, Crowns and birds. Swords and things, Blue lily, lily blue”  I feel like a lot of things right now, I just finished the book and making a mental review of what has been, I can say
Speaking of the book in general was very interesting, with a lot of mystery, as always, and especially full of love, friendship and revelations!I liked the addition of new characters, especially a special mention for Jessie Dentley, who seemed to me the best !, is a character for which I am very fond of and the dialogue with Blue were the best!
.And I can't not overemphasize the relationship in this book between Ronan and Adam, I'm surprised about this, but they catch me with its mysterious and private moments, die of love !.
“Queens and kings, Kings and queensBlue lily, lily blue, Crowns and birds Swords and things, Blue lily, lily blue” This series has reduced me to a barely functioning mess, making fan art and listening to fan mixes in my spare time. Which isn't anything wrong, except responsibilities. Responsibilities I have grossly neglected that really need to stop being grossly neglected. These books just suck you in and take you prisoner. I feel like Maggie Stiefvater is a mad genius or something. The way sh
The way she makes me feel for these characters, it's like a physical ache.
I feel like my review of this story give off a semi depressing perspective of this series, which isn't a really accurate description because as hopeless and things may be, Maggie Stiefvater finds ways to break the bleak ice.
ALIVE.“And then we never speak of it again,” Gansey said, mocking himself softly, and Blue was so glad of it, because she had played the words from that night over and over in her mind and wanted to know he had, too.All in all, book 3 is just another reason why I love this series so much and why it will always be my favorite.
In other words, the characters in Maggie Stiefvater’s Raven Cycle series better stock up on smarts and endurance because all of them have a shit-ton of monkeys to catchee.
I actually hate this part.” ~ Noah Czerny.If The Dream Thieves (Raven Cycle 02) is about secrets and fears, then Blue Lily, Lily Blue is about endings and beginnings.
In fact, the whole Raven Cycle series not only looks like a barrel of monkeys, it is a barrel of monkeys, pun intended!
im so, so sad to admit this but… i think im slowly losing interest in this series.
this book wasnt bad by any means, but i think the novelty and uniqueness is just wearing off for me.
i found myself not really invested in the search for glyndŵr, which is a shame because the plot finally advances in this book!
and again, ive wanted more on blues curse since ‘the raven boys,’ but shes hardly a focal point - shes only around when the boys do something.
im going to finish the series because its only one more book, so heres hoping its worth it!
The character I love the most that is new is named Jesse Dittley, he's like a million feet tall and he yells when he talks.
The reason the gang comes to see Jess is that he has another part to the cave they have been investigating and they are going to try to get him to let them in to see it.
I still don't understand a lot of things that go on in this book and I can't really pin point them, but I still love them.....how strange is that!
I really like these books even though i'm like wtf did I just read?Around the Year in 52 Books Challenge Notes:- 4. A book by an author you discovered in 2015
