https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/112756.To_Tame_a_Highland_Warrior
I loved this book.
Really, I don't get why people say that you could skip the first two books in the series and it wouldn't matter.
This first 2 books may not be as good as the rest but IMHO they are still worth of being read.
The first one was good, but this one was awesome.
I'm not adding this book to that list, but if the rest of the books in the series are even better than this one they'll end up there because this one almost did.I really liked the "Berserker" thing.
How could someone not love this book?I can't wait to read the next book.
Awesome series.
With the exception of the mention of a few characters from the first book in the series,  To Tame a Highland Warrior can easily be read as a standalone novel.Why did this one work for me?
He didn’t trust himself, couldn’t control when the Berserker in him would appear, and worried that one day he’d hurt the woman he’d come to love, Jillian St. Clair.Jillian had been in love with Grimm since she was a young woman of only twelve and had no intention of ever wedding anyone except him.
READ AT YOUR OWN RISK!I can't tell you how much it pains me to give this a one.There was so many things,I found irritating in this book and well the main lead characters were a huge part of that.I get that this book is a second-chance-at-romance kind of book and I also went in KNOWING that it will take a bit of time before the two main characters,let go of their resentment and pride and got back together.But DAMNMIT !
(Review = https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...)#5 The Dark Highlander - 4 Stars :) (Review = https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
This love story is about Grimm the strong warrior that had made wishes upon the stars for his best friend Hawk to find his true love in the first book of the series. Grimm already has a true love and for his own reasons he is trying to avoid her until her father decides to play the matchmaker.My favourite scene was the stealing of the bride from the church. I seriously pray to find such scenes in the romantic books I am reading.This book made my day when I finish it and I highly recommend it.
I loved the fact that she was a headstrong female and was aware of her feelings for Grimm from the very beginning.
Despite the fact that she gets easily infuriated by Grimm’s less-than-romantic ways, she is so endearing as a character that she easily became one of my favourite heroines.
But to me, it only makes me love her more.
Nevertheless, it’s worth the wait.I’ve been chatting with few friends about cheesy romance covers and I think this one had a very good one before!
It makes me laugh each time I see it.
2 1/2 to 3 starsI'm glad I read this series out of order (these books can be read out of order).
Personally, I don't think the series was particularly engrossing until after the third book.
Books four, five, and six are my favorite, with book six, The Immortal Highlander, my favorite of the series.
You must, however, read books four, five, six, and seven in order.
I recommend reading the series in this order: Kiss of the Highlander (#4),The Dark Highlander (#5),The Immortal Highlander (#6), Spell of the Highlander (#7), The Highlander Touch (#3), Beyond the Highland Mist (#1), To Tame a Highland Warrior (#2)
How the hot bad guy managed to get in the impenetrable fortress and out with a kicking and screaming heroine right under the noses of three berserkers is beyond me.
~sigh~ (I told you it was painful.) The scene tying everything up into a big happy bow included a visit from some characters obviously from a previous book about a time traveling wench and her hot, kilt wearing stud.
I enjoyed this book very much. The narrator of the book did excellent accents and voices.I did this as a buddy read with my friend Vicki Goodwin.Enjoy and Be Blessed.Diamond
including people he's met and assumes the identity of Grimm.Jillian has always loved Grimm- when he walked into her life as kid-and also when he walked out breaking her heart as an adult.
Years later at 21, she's unwed and her father asks three strong suitors to come for Jillian- Quinn, Ramsey and Grimm.Grimm has always been it for Jillian, her first love, her first kiss.
There's a lot of pent up lust between the h and H and the plot is basically "I've loved you forever" kind.Extra stars for the sweet epilogue!Not safe by definition (view spoiler)[ they've know each other when she was a kid and he was a teen/ adult.
Ben yine hani bana, hani bana modundayım.Şaşırdık mı?Acımıyor ki bu kahpe yazarlar bana.Sonra da hiçbir şey yokmuş gibi yaşamaya çalışıyorum.YOK YANİ YOK! BİR İSKOÇUM YOK NE YAPAYIM BEN?ölüyorum her okuyuşta ulanBu aralar çok diyorum ama vallahi yazacağım yorum
Tortured heroes are always great, but I think the veil needed to be lifted a little sooner in this one.So what didn’t I like about the book?
I hated that Grimm just assumed that Jillian wouldn’t love him if she knew what he really was.
I was pissed thru a lot of the book thinking he needed to just get of his pedal stool and ask some questions.Oh and this one is the only one in the series so far that I have read that didn’t involve time travel.Otherwise a well written story, with only better books to come.
★Book Basics★  Genre : - Historical Paranormal Romance Series : - 2nd in the series Love triangle?  - (view spoiler)[No, there are other "suitors" but no love triangle (hide spoiler)] Cheating?  - (view spoiler)[No (hide spoiler)] HEA? -  (view spoiler)[Yes (hide spoiler)] Would I read more by this author/or in this series?  - Yes Rating  - 2.5 rounded up to 3★Review★As with book 1 Review Here I struggled with liking the heroine. Nothing I can really put my finger on, just something about them I
- (view spoiler)[No, there are other "suitors" but no love triangle (hide spoiler)]
- 2.5 rounded up to 3★Review★As with book 1 Review Here I struggled with liking the heroine.
And there were other things that just made no sense to have happened that way.Again with the first book the dialogue did not feel all that authentic to an historical setting.I started enjoying it more toward the last quarter, as with book 1.And I was pleased for the HEA.But I have been reliably informed book 1-3 in this series are by far the weakest, and book 4 is when it gets great, so shall continue on.
The sex scenes are written without explicit detail giving it a more romantic feel and aren’t a big part of the story – concentrating more on the emotional love instead of the physical.Karen also seems to have a profound confidence in her knowledge of the books era.
She makes it sound completely realistic that its hard not to feel a part of the story and any writer that can use the word ‘infinitesimally’ and not sound like a tool gets a big two thumbs up from me.This is the second time I have been left with a pounding heart and I can’t wait for the third.Favourite quote...and who’s heart wouldn’t pound at the sound of this:“I wake up wanting you.
But, the idea that we are all aflutter when some guy treats us like dirt might possibly give guys the wrong idea (not to mention girls who read these things).
She follows him around, even after he tells her to go away (continually), and throws herself at this man who treats her like crap.Sorry, I had to DNF this book.
I had heard that Puck, from the last story in this series, was going to be in all of these books, but he wasn't around.
And, there was nothing riveting about this story of a stupid, desperate girl to keep me reading.
A re-read (listened to audiobook). A fun installment in the series, and I remember absolutely loving it the first time I read it a few years ago, but after re-reading books 4-7 last month (Kiss, Dark, Immortal and Spell), this one just didn't seam to be able to compare. Still, a really fun and sexy highlander story.
[Audiobook: "To Tame A Highland Warrior" by Karen Marie Moning; Phil Gigante/Reader = 5*]The first time I did the "skim" on this book and wasn't too interested in reading it completely, and now I realize I was probably just taking a nose-dive on the series as a whole after starting it at "The Kiss of the Highlander," an absolute favorite.
These two can’t stop “hating to love each other.” I’m not sure how much was KMM’s writing (always good for me) or Phil’s reading (again, more than “yummy”), but I’m so glad I gave this last book in one of my favorite series another shot.
But her father devises a scheme to force her to wed...he invites 3 young men (Grimm is one of them) to help her out while he's away, and she is to pick one by the time her parents return.
And finally one night, they have crazy hot sex and Grimm panics and leaves her to marry one of the other men.Idiot male.So she plans to wed Quinn and Grimm does actually show up in time to stop the wedding, but that's only the middle of the book!
There is so much more before he finally gives his heart fully to Jillian-he finds his clan is thriving, and his father was innocent of the charges Grimm threw at him.
This book doesn't work for me because...The characters are paper-thinned.The story is just a run-of-the-mill romance.
Nothing special.Some of the scenes are comical and light-hearted enough, but the story as a whole does nothing to me.
Sexy Dangerous Mysterious Bad Boy With a Dark Past?
No, I don't find this sexy, it's so overused, it isn't even interesting.There's a sweet and good-nature Boy Next Door type male character, but of course he isn't going to get the girl.Also, I don't find kilt sexy.Call me narrow minded, but I just don't understand the appeal.Still, I give this book 2.5 stars because unlike Darkfever, I don't hate the characters in this book.
Okuduğum en iyi İskoçyalı.
dejaré algunas frases para que entiendan mi calificación y, seguramente, cuando esté un poco mejor de salud les cuente por que este libro es pretencioso (quiere ser una novela histórica fantástica con un desaprovechado montón de research motológico por parte de la autora) un cliché con patas, maqueteado, con diálogos falsos, cursi, sin romance (las escenas de cama no tienen más que calentoneo y mordidas en las nalgas, pero cero intimidad), con una mitología viciada (la leyenda es mmmm) y un problema padre hijo bien estúpido.
So let's see, the book prologue opened in year 1499, when Grimm was in a battle and at the time he was only 14 years old.
So again, simple math tells me that Grimm and Jillian should be AT LEAST 8 years apart in age, right?
But no, wait, in the middle of the book, Jillian recalled a kiss that she shared with Grimm when she was 16 years old and he was supposed to be 22 years old at the time...
Grimm met Jillian when he was 15 or 16 years old.
Then Grimm became a berserker for the first time and killed most of the McCanes.
They fell in love but Grimm left her because he didn’t want to hurt her.Fifteen years later Jillian’s father sends a letter to three men asking them to come to his home “for Jillian.” The three men were Ramsey, Quinn, and Grimm.
It’s overused in this book.I hated the way Grimm made false assumptions about other people and then rejected those people.
He tells Jillian she should marry Quinn.
After he has sex with Jillian for the first time, he says you must marry Quinn.
SEVGİLİ LADIESHistorical Romance okuduğumuz tarihten bu yana İskoçlara hayran olduk, ( ki sizi bilmem ama ben hala daha hayranım, )ve itiraf edelim onları İSTEDİK ama kitaplarda olsa bile o kadar savaşa dayanamayıp elbet ölüm haberlerini almaktan korktukDERKENNNN....İSKOÇ ERKEKLERİNİN PASLANMAYAN,LEKE TUTMAYAN, EKRANI ÇİZİLMEYEN ÖMÜRLÜK-FULL(?!) GARANTİLİ VERSİYONUNU YAPMIŞLAR. --->  BERSERKER Efendim kendileri bizzat Kelt Efsaneleri tarından %100 garantilenmiş olup bu "efsanevi" meziyetleri
SEVGİLİ LADIESHistorical Romance okuduğumuz tarihten bu yana İskoçlara hayran olduk, ( ki sizi bilmem ama ben hala daha hayranım, )ve itiraf edelim onları İSTEDİK ama kitaplarda olsa bile o kadar savaşa dayanamayıp elbet ölüm haberlerini almaktan korktukDERKENNNN....İSKOÇ ERKEKLERİNİN PASLANMAYAN,LEKE TUTMAYAN, EKRANI ÇİZİLMEYEN ÖMÜRLÜK-FULL(?!) GARANTİLİ VERSİYONUNU YAPMIŞLAR.
BERSERKER
Efendim kendileri bizzat Kelt Efsaneleri tarından %100 garantilenmiş olup bu "efsanevi" meziyetleri de sadece savaş meydanlarıyla sınırlı kalmamaktadır.
Yeniyılla paket olark gelen finallerim yüzünden 2014e mental olarak girememiştim.
Ve bu durumu dileyemediğim 2014'ten yeni yıl dileğim için fırsat olarak görüyorum VEee...Can I take one Berserker for my own please?ONU İSTİYORUMMM!!!
I am so far behind on writing my reviews right now that I am having a hard time justifying the time it will take me to write a full review for this book when I didn't even like it.
But on the other hand I also feel like I should justify why this was only a two star book for me...I'm going to make this short and to the point.It wasn't as bad as the first book in the series, but not significantly better either.
Previous Reviews (also the order I read them in, YOU DON'T OWN ME)Beyond the Highland Mist (#1)Spell of the Highlander (#7)Kiss of the Highlander (#4)The Dark Highlander (#5)The Immortal Highlander (#6)Into the Dreaming (#8)Up Next: The Highlanders Touch (#3)I had no intentions of reading this book, I clumped this into "no thank you" after reading the first installment.
It picks up in Hawk and Adrianne's castle, where Grimm gets a summons from someone in his past with a rather cryptic message to come get Jillian.
It's quickly alluded to the fact that this woman is someone he deeply cares for and rushes out.When Grimm arrives at the St. Claire home (castle) Jillian is enraged by his very presence and tries to have him removed.
Turned berserker at a young age- Grimm Roderick managed to avoid any firm emotional attachment for years for fear of him hurting the ones he loves while in a rage.
He also gave the heroine a whiny voice- and considering Moning already wrote her as such- I wanted to pull my hair out at the overload.Anyway, it ends quite Happily Ever After of course, babies and all- unfortunately it took far to long to get there and by then I actually was wishing for a NON h.e.a just to alleviate some boredom.There's nothing in this that connects to Moning's Fever series so if you're reading it for hopes of that- you can save yourself the torture.
[image error]I think it is safe to say that I am developing a fetish for kilts because of this series.
Currently I have about 10 tabs open of hot men wearing kilts Grimm with a sad past...
Gets saved by a beautiful girl when he is 14 years old - Jillian St Claire.
But his past haunts him and he must leave her behind as he thinks that is the best way to keep her safe.
I never wanted to throttle a man more than Grimm.
At some point I kept waiting for Jillian to say "eeeh...
Still 5 stars too!***********************************************My first pleasant surprise, or maybe delight is a better word, was that this story is about Grimm.
Grimm was an instant hit to my heart during the first book so to see his history before me was sheer delight!I was moving along the pages at a nice pace, all along thinking that this book was a worthy 4 stars!
whatever the reason, this book acquired the 5th star and a night of not being able to put the story down!!!I loved this book, a truly gripping tale with twists and turns right up to the final battle...
You know, even this (in general)loather of Historical Romance...
I think it's because as P.A. Lupton put it (I'm paraphrasing here) it's not about the timeperiod as the focus - the romance and the characters are the focus.
The audio is totally worth it!Comparing it to the Fever series- I still prefer Fever, I think because it is an 'urban' more modern day fantasy.
But, I will most definitely be working my way down this series until I can finish off to see if it's wearing it's kilt in true Scottish fashion.
Again, I would have given this book a 3.5.
I adored the characters and once again the female lead has a helluva choice.
Loved ALL the characters as is usual in a KMM book.
She created great angst with this tale that began when both characters were young.
There had always been an attraction there, but Grimm held fast to a personal vow he had made for all the wrong reasons to never wed, let alone fall in love, even tho he already was...Would Jillian be able to break thru that hard headed man and get him to release the locks on his heart?
