https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3412815-fireproof
Couldn't put it down. One of my favorites. 5 stars from beginning to end.
I loved this book. A super easy read that made me realize how good my relationship with my fiance already is. Possibly, because of us meeting later in life, or because we appreciate and respect each other so much. Either way, this is a good one to keep on the shelf for reference and to share with your significant other.
I loved this book. It was simple, and even a little predictable, but the message was profound. I had a hard time putting it down.
When Caleb talks to his father about what’s going on he asks his son to wait forty days, because he’s got something to try.The Love Dare enters the picture.
A point in the win column for Catherine’s character is certainly in order for the devotion she shows to her parents.There’s some good firefighter action in the book as well as lots of family problems and dealing with said problems.
All and all, an enjoyable book and certainly something I see myself going back to for a rainy day read.
My excuse for reading this book is that the Verizon store is right next to a Christian bookstore, and it took Scott two hours to decide which Blackberry he wanted to purchase.
There is a lot of proselytizing in the second half as the main character finds God, but he seriously needed to find God. The main character, Caleb, is this firefighter who is a complete bastard to his wife until she wants a divorce.
The ending was touching because he realized how to find real meaning and value in his relationship, instead of being miserable all the time and expecting his wife to do all the work.
Everybody, including those who aren't in a marriage relationship, can relate to the lessons it brings...This will kinda be a spoiler but at least you may have a glimpse of the contents..."You never leave your partner!
Especially in a fire!""Caleb Holt: Marriage isn't fireproof.
It means when the fire comes that you will be able to withstand it."Well those are for marriage...
take this:"Caleb Holt: I care about people.
But have you loved God?
Caleb Holt: Dad, what about all the good I've done?
John Holt: Son, saving someone from a fire doesn't make you right with God. You've broken His commandments.
This book teaches you the importance of holding on and doing what is right although it may be extremely hard. If you need ispiration or help with any problem in your life you should definitely pick up a copy of this book and get reading....
His dadsays that there is a book that he wants Caleb to read -- and followwhat it tells him to do.
Caleb starts to read this book "Man, can dad be serious?
The book helped answer the questions I had in my mind while watching the movie.
It kind of eludes to why their marriage was very strained in the movie, but what did Caleb really think about what he was doing on the internet?
Eric Wilson does a great job of telling therest of the story that the movie didn't have time to tell.
I watched and enjoyed the movie Fireproof at some point in the last year or two.
My sister-in-law loaned me the novelization of the movie.
Caleb’s father challenges him to try a 40-day Love Dare project.
Caleb is skeptical at first, but finds himself changing and truly understanding the meaning of love.I actually enjoyed Fireproof the novel even more then the movie.
The book was a very quick read and was highly enjoyable.
It is a great book about relationships and what it takes to keep them going.
This book is a Christian Romance novel, though it's not typical of the category.
I think men would find the book as interesting as women would.The book isn't terribly preachy and is more a "this character happens to become a Christian" than a "listen up, readers--if you aren't Christian, you ought to be and here's how!" Unless you are vehemently anti-Christian, the Christian content probably won't annoy you.Because the novel is based on a movie, the novel isn't as deep as it could be.
The world-building (of the fire house and hospital) was good.
The main characters were interesting.
I gave it three stars because the story is awesome but it is a "novelization" of a movie.
That being said the story is awesome.
It is a story about a marriage in which the couple had become strangers in the same house.
Like the couple in the book I was married seven years and things got tough.
Caleb listens to his Dad and accepts the "Love Dare" in which he does various things to give sacrifical love to his wife for 40 days.
There are a couple of twists in the story that bring tears to your eyes.Either see the movie or read the book.
It was well-written, the characters were relatable, and it really made you feel a part of the book.
I felt angry, sad, frustrated, happy throughout this whole book with the characters.
Being Christian, I especially loved the touch of faith brought into the story.
It wasn't overwhelming, yet at the same time, it was the foundation of the entire story.
It's hard for a book to make me tear up, but this one did it!
Highly recommend, especially for serious relationships/marriages...whether it be you want to remind yourself of how blessed you are to be with your partner or need to mend some wounds in your relationship.
Several people recommended the movie to me but the book was at the library so I picked it up. It was ok - nothing hard to read. It was thought provoking as the husband began to take the love dare and do things for his wife to demonstrate his committment to their marriage and her friends at work caused her to question his motives. A reminder that sometimes our friends don't give us godly advice and to always compare the advice people give us to what the Bible says.Fireproof
While the "Love Dare" is based in Christian theology, the message it sends, about how to really take care of and treat your partner well, is universal.
Edit the theology to suit as needed.At the end of the day, Fireproof is very much a love story - and a tale of hope for those who are in troubled relationships, complete with a blueprint for how to sort out your issues together, even if only one party is willing to actually do anything.
I was so moved by the whole thing that I actually bought The Love Dare itself.
I didn't think it was well written, and the background of the characters wasn't developed at all in my opinion, and I know from others who have seen the movie (I haven't) that the emotion from the characters was much more evident in the movie than the book.
"The Love Dare" is available as a separate book, and one of the members of our bible study got it and shared it with us, and I thought that was actually really worthwhile.
I found out after I started reading this book that it was written after the screenplay for the movie, rather than before.
The book does kind of read like a movie.
It doesn't have the deepest dialogue and the characters are not as fleshed out as they normally are in books I read.
Normally I don't even enjoy Christian fiction that much because they just seem a little light and don't ring quite true for me.
The reason I didn't and why I did enjoy this book so much?
I don't think the book was overly "preachy" either.
A love story with some comedy, that also has a religious message that does not over power the book.
It is possible that this book will change the way we look at marraige these days.
It is not a gender bias through all of Caleb and Catherine's problems it shows how each is eqaully responsible for what is happening in their lives together.
It shows us what we have, and that we need to realize the truly special and wonderful things in our lives before we have to lose( or almost lose ) them to find out.
I have a personal etiquette that I go by: I won't read a book if I've already seen the movie.
I opted to go agianst this since this book was written after the movie was released.
I had forced myself to read a little more that 100 pages when decided I couldn't read it anymore.
I feel the author could have done MORE with the book (gone further into the beginning of their relationship of Caleb and Catherine, and as the marriage started to fail).
The book may have been okay if I hadn't already seen the movie.
I just couldn't get into it.
Though there are some great extra details, including how Caleb and Catherine ended up married in the first place, one plot thread not seen in the film messed things up.
(SPOILER WARNING!) Catherine's mom goes on a special version of Wheel of Fortune and wins a boat for Caleb, which didn't sit well with me.
I don't like that, because that's not how real life works.
Caleb not getting the boat, yet still being happy, shows a true sacrifice.
(END SPOILERS!) If that doesn't bother you, then you should read this, unless you didn't like the film.Score: 3.75/5
I absolutely LOVED Fireproof!
I have watched the movie Fireproof a half dozen times.
It was a treat to read the book and delve deeper into the story behind Caleb and Catherine.
The creation of The Love Dare, and reading about how these two characters lived it out, was fantastic.
I mourned the breakdown of their marriage, and then cheered as Caleb made the commitment to do the Love Dare.
Even though I knew the outcome from watching the movie, I was completely drawn into the story as I read about their struggles, Catherine's resistance and her temptation with a fellow worker.
Caleb and Catherine are having serious marriage problems.
Catherine wants out and Caleb isn't sure he wants to fight for it.
A conversation with his father puts "The Love Dare" into Caleb's hands.
It isn't easy for him but he wants to give it a try.
He struggles to figure out what he wants and whether giving his life to Christ is really the answer to save his marriage.I loved this story.
The book of course has more than the movie but both are great and have a wonderful message.
I wonder what the world would be like if everyone that is married would take on this dare.
When rating this book I’m not comparing it to other novels I’ve read.
I found other novels to have much better stories and yet I gave them lower scores.
Usually Christian novels are extremely phony and lack any semblance to our current culture.
This book does a fantastic job illustrating marriage – albeit a nasty side of marriage.
I appreciated how real the book felt.
It wasn’t a “become Christian and all is well” kind of book.
So for a Christian novel the book is great, and for a secular novel the book is just ok.
Fireproof is a story that I believe every person can relate to. It touches on relationships (good/bad, romantic/friendship) as well as just being a better YOU. A quick read but part of that was the flow of the story as well as wanting to know the outcome.
This book was a very fast read. It was so hard to put down. I love the drama packed within it. This fire fighter and public relations manager showed what true dedication, love and commitment, along with Christ can do.
Very touching story. Quick read for me because I couldn't seem to put the novel down. Very enjoyable. One that I will save and read again.
Good wholesome Christian book. Liked the concepts of this book. Reminds me that how I need to be in my marriage. I would recommend this book
Going through many struggles, in the end they forgive each other and come back together.I really liked this book because I think it did a great job showing realistic problems of marriage and "love", while it also portrayed a different kind of love- love between parents, and love between God. I also saw the movie, which was great too.
I've seen a couple of Christian movies, but I thought this one was especially good because the protagonist (Caleb), who always ends up being christian (its a Christian movie it has to end that way) had so many REAL struggles- in the beginning he was clearly not interested in religion, and we saw him come to God and grow as a person through his experiences and not just like..
The book gives a better insight into the lives of the characters than the movie ever will! Great read!
I haven’t really read a book like this before but I found that I loved it. I was so emotional through the whole read and now I want to do the love dare!!
I wish this had been around when things were starting to go south for me but I have to say this is definitely something I think everyone in a relationship should read and heck if you’re brave like me take the Dare and see what happens in your life.THINGS I LIKED: - I loved watching these two people who were ready to throw in the towel fight for each other.
THINGS I DIDN'T LIKE: - I admit I stopped reading and skipped over the parts at the firehouse.
Keeping as a nice reminderWould you recommend this book?
