https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/636193.Limbo
Full and immediate disclosure: I do not have a high opinion of the theories of Freud, and Bergler's theories, as interpreted in this book, seem like they might be even further off-the-mark concerning sexuality.When undergoing Freudian analysis, the subject is encouraged to focus in on himself at length to try to obtain better self-understanding, in what might seem to an outside observer to be a rather navel-gazing, self-absorbed endeavor.
This book reads like Wolfe's attempt to make sense of himself and the philosophies he absorbed (and wholeheartedly embraced) from Bergler.
Definitely left out the rapey stuff, especially the bit about women enjoying rape, and.
Quite possibly Wolfe was trying to make a point about gender relations, as ‘Limbo’ includes a great deal of philosophical and psychological musing on violence and war more generally.
The narrator of ‘Limbo’ is an army doctor who deserted towards the end of the war and hid on an unmapped island for 18 years, performing lobotomies on its native inhabitants.
He describes a sense of being unique, a world saviour, etc and rather than condemning his hubris, the narrative seems to validate it.Despite all this critique, ‘Limbo’ is a novel I can definitely imagine recommending, albeit with careful caveats.
A post-apocalyptic book that examines the propensity of humans to war and the ideal of pacifism, Bernard Wolfe takes the notion of "disarmament" to an unprecedented level. Although Limbo is an excellent book for exploring how violence and pacifism can escalate to extremes, both on a personal and a national level, it unfortunately fails to acknowledge any kind of alternative viewpoints such as the principle of non-aggression. Thought-provoking and quotable, this book rates favorably against similar books of its era, including 1984 by George Orwell and Brave New World by Aldous Huxley.
Apart from its other serious and manifest flaws (preachiness and tiresomely repetitive philosophizing being the most obvious) this book has serious issues in its portrayal of women and sexual relationships. This vision of the future is mired in rape fantasies and misogyny. Very uncomfortable reading.
I read this dystopian novel because its author, Bernard Wolfe, had been one of Leon Trotsky's secretaries during his Mexican exile and had written The Great Prince Died (1959) about him.
LIMBO is a post-WWIII novel of one Idea (the post nuclear war desire for extreme pascifism/disarmament that manifests itself literally in a new society) that is repeated, philosophized upon, lectured about and punned endlessly.
Wolfe himself is the main problem, getting in the way of the plot to insert philosophical treatises and long lectures.
There are about 300 pages of outright lecturing/philosophizing and about 130 pages of plot.Wolfe seems to have loved puns, and a fine punster he is.
Wolfe seems to be unable to edit himself inserting puns everywhere even in serious, emotional moments in the novel which deflate those serious scenes.I probably would have loved this quirky novel if it had been 250 pages or less.
Parts of it seem a little bit drawn out, the psychology-based sections really lost me, and the misogyny didn't really age well. But the book's other aspects, from its examination of the cyborg figure to its discussion on the role of the machine in modern culture are all amazingly prescient for its time. It's classic, somewhat psychedelic 50s sci-fi.
A madcap post-apocalyptic cybernetic thriller, an early depiction of the perils of nuclear apocalypse, an exploration of the dualities of humankind, the only problem with this text is that is absolute awful dogshit. This is an (admittedly early) example of that brand of science fiction in which the world and the characters serve exclusively to advocate for or against various philosophical/political points, and while Wolfe has an appreciably broad range of knowledge the text is unreadably pedantic and incredibly repetitive, and at bottom I simply did not feel he had much to impart, let alone anything requiring 500 pages.
Wow, what a great read. I almost hesitate to place this on my sci-fi shelf because it hardly seems a fitting label for it. Still, it's a much different view on the cyborg notion than I'm used to, and it's valuable to have perspective. Really it was just fascinating all of the way through. Yes, some parts did drag a bit, and Wolfe can be a bit talkative at times, but it was all worth it.
I più radicali arrivano alla castrazione e vivono, senza alcun arto, dentro a ceste di vimini, inevitabilmente accuditi in tutto e per tutto.Quella che per noi è una distopia, risulta essere una condizione di vita a cui la maggior parte delle persone aspira e che è raggiungibile nel corso degli anni acquisendo sempre maggior abilità nel controllo delle protesi, che rendono di fatto i possessori dei super-uomini dalle capacità irraggiungibili sia nella vita quotidiana, sia in guerra.Il processo che ha portato all'evoluzione (?) della razza umana è spiegato in una maniera tale da parere quasi credibile poiché fondato su basi filosofiche ben costruite, nonostante siano assurde per i nostri canoni.
He runs from the war and lives 18 years peacefully in one the African islands.
He achieves good results and now many people in island are talking like a Pope)) But Martine achieved another unfavourable thing.
At the same time, those amputees with nuclear limbs reached the African island.
They found that metal in that African island.
And the new war range with nukes has begun.
Martine manages to save his island...The book is full of the role of machines, in our life, the good sides of them and bad ones are told about broadly.
But to my amazement, Mr. Wolfe did actually make the world seem plausible.The so called premise was; after an all-out 3rd world war and the major use of nuclear weapons, the few remaing habitable areas (The U.S. was a strip of land from about Montana down to New Mexico with some areas of the south that were still useable to a much lessened degree, and Russia was similarly cut down.
Wolfe's one foray into science fiction, "Limbo" concerns an irreverent and disillusioned doctor in a cataclysmic world war (at the time in the far future of 1990) who disappears but leaves behind a sarcastic journal.
It would seem he is the last person with a sense of humor left in the world: his diary is found, taken quite seriously, and is used as the basis for a totally mad world ideology.
The novel is a hilariously jaundiced look at the pitfalls of ideological obsession.
My one bone with the book is that Wolfe tended to go off on tedious stream-of-consciousness tangents for too many pages.
"- Que pourraient-ils en faire de mal ?- Ce genre de connaissance peut prêter aux abus, ce ne serait pas la première fois.- Tu as quelque chose à proposer ?- Si tu me l'avais demandé plus tôt, je t'aurais fait une proposition tout ce qu'il y a de plus concrète, répondit gravement Martine.
Pourquoi avait-il soudain la sensation pénible que, derrière son masque de conférencier olympien, c'était de soi qu'il parlait ?
Au cours de ces dix-huit années dans la caverne avait-il fait autre chose que dormir ?
le sommeil aussi était un rouleau compresseur.

A real curio of 50s dystopian writing, antiwar and skeptical of pacifism at the same time. The prose is uneven–elegant and ponderous by turn–and Wolfe is a little too fond of long streches of Freud and Weiner. Nevertheless, there are some indelible images and a good bit of solid literary thinking. If Wolfe had engaged a better editor, the book would not only be a classic of speculative fiction (JG Ballard cited it as the main inspiration for his own career), it would also be a classic of Western canon as well.
Un libro sesudo, lleno de referencias y explicaciones sociológicas y freudianas, que es un alegato en contra de la guerra, pero también contra el pacifismo. En sus páginas hay críticas a todo el sistema social basado en las mentes enfermas de sus componentes, y al tiempo un alegato a favor del desviarse de la norma.Es un libro complejo, a veces se hace lento, pero sin duda es algo interesantísimo.
This is an interesting satirical novel focussing on what life would be like if we were to chop off our limbs to prevent us from going to war. Clearly Wolfe thinks it wouldn’t work, but what he presents is an interesting concept. The idea that the actions of one man, albeit misinterpreted actions, could lead to such a movement is both funny and worrying, with a conclusion that really proves that mankind will go to war no matter how much they try not to.
The author sets up a ridiculous straw man, and attacks that rather than address any real issues. This is done through terrible prose, and horrible misogynistic views. While it is one of the first science fiction books to deal with cybernetics, it does so in such a ham-fisted way, that the book is best left forgotten.
I have vague, yet paradoxically clear memories of this book - about a society that has evolved believing in the value of amputation because then they can develop the strength of their upper bodies... a society at war.
Probably a turning point in my life as 15 y.o. avid Sci-Fi reader. The moment I went from glamourous adventures and space-operas to serious, adult story-telling.
An above average sci-fi novel. Inventive and at least not formulaic. Good, although somewhat obvious use of "dis-arm-ament" as a social metaphor.
um. you just have to read this one.
I read this book many years ago. I want to see if it's as good as I thought it was when I was in college. Yep, still enjoyed this book. Wonder why they never made a movie out of it.
Radical equalitification leads to total disarmament.
One of the great forgotten classics of dystopian literature. He managed to predict the modern primitive movement in 1953.
Lessi questo libro nel periodo in cui frequentavo ancora le medie, da allora ho sempre rimandato una
No le he puesto las cinco estrellas pues me ha resultado un poco pesada con el rollo freudiano y cosas de ese tipo. Es una relectura y la primera vez, hace muchos años me encantó, pero tal vez se note que fue escrita en el año 1951 y muchos de los temas que entonces eran candentes ya nos quedan muy atrás. No obstante está bien escrita, un poco larga para mi gusto, recomendable.
I did not manage to finish this book. Maybe one day, I'll try again.
A bit of a slog, but fun for its window into the 1950's nuclear Freudianism cultural moment.
