https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46170.For_Whom_the_Bell_Tolls
Ok, before I commit the sacrilege of dismissing this "classic," permit me to establish my Hemingway bona fides: I have read and loved just about everything else he wrote, and have taught Sun Also Rises, Farewell to Arms, and many short stories, and had a blast doing it.
I found the prose so incredibly flat and dull as to be soporific (and, yes, I fully understand and appreciate H's famous "Iceberg Principle" of writing -- "the thing left unsaid" etc).
I have a dear friend who's read more great literature than I can remember, and he loves this book, and expresses great shock when I tell him how much I hate it.
'Robert Jordan sits on the pine needle floor of the pine forest, the scent of pine drifting through the pine trees which surround him.
Then Robert would truly be happy.'For Whom the Bell Tolls is allegedly a novel by Ernest Hemingway.
Robert spends most of his time sitting on the forest floor and thinking about breasts.
If For Whom the Bell Tolls was actually written at a literacy level higher than that of a kindergartener then it would genuinely be unreadable.
So there are genuinely moments in this novel where characters say 'what the obscenity are you doing?' and 'go obscenity yourself'.
”No man is an Iland, intire of it selfe; every man is a peece of the Continent, a part of the maine; if a Clod bee washed away by the Sea, Europe is the lesse, as well as if a Promontorie were, as well as if a Mannor of thy friends or of thine owne were; any mans death diminishes me, because I am involved in Mankinde; And therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls; It tolls for thee.”----------John Donne Robert Capa’s iconic 1936 photo of a falling soldier.Between 1936-1939 a war happe
Ernest Hemingway went to Spain as a war correspondent for the North American Newspaper Alliance and was hoping to find some great material for a book.
If Hemingway felt the way Jordan did (I believe he did.) I do wonder if he finally forgave his own father when he became the mechanism of his own death or did he maybe blame his father for cursing the family with suicidal thoughts?
Later he used it to end his life.I read this book as a teenager and was suitably impressed with Hemingway at the time.
I obscenity your transmission. I obscenity in the milk of your ancestors. I, and always and forever I; wandering I, mucking I, obscene obscenity forever and always and milking and transmissing and mucking wandering amongst the forever and the always I; obscenity obscene, mucking milking milk ancestral forever and ever to have and to hold and to be and now and always and forever; this now, wandering now, transmissing now, mucking now, milking now, obscene obscenity now, ancestral now, forever to be and to hold and to have always.
587. For Whom The Bell Tolls, Ernest HemingwayFor Whom the Bell Tolls is a novel by Ernest Hemingway published in 1940. It tells the story of Robert Jordan, a young American in the International Brigades attached to a republican guerrilla unit during the Spanish Civil War. As a dynamiter, he is assigned to blow up a bridge during an attack on the city of Segovia. The novel is regarded as one of Hemingway's best works, along with The Sun Also Rises, The Old Man and the Sea, and A Farewell to Arms
جفری مایر، نویسنده ی زندگی‌نامهٔ همینگوی، باور دارد که این اثر یکی از بهترین آثار همینگوی، در کنار: پیرمرد و دریا، وداع با اسلحه، و خورشید هم طلوع می‌کند، است.
At some point in high school, I decided that I hated Ernest Hemingway.
Something made me decide that Hemingway was a prick, and after that I dismissed him entirely.This book was beautiful.
I don't even like books about war.
(Case in point: I scanned half of War and Peace.
YES.But mostly: I love how Hemingway writes his dialogue as though it were being directly translated.
And I love that Robert Jordan is referred to as Robert Jordan throughout the entire book -- the way you refer to famous people, historical figures, the names you must commit to memory.
In 1937, Hemingway agreed to report on the Spanish Civil War for the North American Newspaper Alliance (NANA), arriving in Spain in March with Dutch filmmaker Joris Ivens.
He wanted Hemingway to replace John Dos Passos as screenwriter, since Dos Passos had left the project when his friend José Robles was arrested and later executed.Hemingway (center) with Dutch filmmaker Joris Ivens and German writer Ludwig Renn (serving as an International Brigades officer) in Spain during Spanish Civil War, 1937
Not my favourite Hemingway, a little bit too slow.
But the topic of the Spanish Civil War makes it a good read, and the John Donne poem that gave the novel its title should be yelled, shouted, sung, recited, hummed and whispered by heart over and over again, especially in these times of outlandishly islandish people destroying the world again:No man is an island entire of itself; every man is a piece of the continent, a part of the main; if a clod be washed away by the sea, Europe is the less, as well as if a promontory were, as well as any manner of thy friends or of thine own were; any man's death diminishes me, because I am involved in mankind.
Suffice it to say, I am not a Hemingway fan.
In The Things They Carried, Tim O'Brien writes that, "If at the end of a war story you feel uplifted, or if you feel that some small bit of rectitude has been salvaged from the larger waste, then you have been made the victim of a very old and terrible lie." I kept coming back to that quote as I read this book, because it proves that Robbins was absolutely right.
Instead, the biggest enemy that the protagonist (I won't use the word "hero") Robert Jordan faces is within the rebel group itself - a lot of strong personalities are drawn together by this war, and throwing them all together and making them live in a cave maybe wasn't the best way to go about things.
The lengthy novel tells the story of Robert Jordan, a young American in the International Brigades attached to a republican guerrilla unit during the Spanish Civil War. As a dynamiter, he is assigned to blow up a bridge during an attack on the city of Segovia.By the half-way point, he still hadn't blown up the bridge but was instead engaging in seemingly never-ending debate about why it needed blowing up, how to do it, whether or not everyone in his group was in favour of the destruction .....the list could go on but I will spare you.
Here are a few more things I didn't like about the book:*Did he really have to write "rope-soled shoes" every time he mentioned their footwear or even their feet?*The dialogue was the standard stiff Hemingway dialogue, but somehow it seemed even more wooden.*Every Spanish character goes by a first name or a nickname.
or She felt herself falling in love with the Hemingway-like main character.
"You are falling in love with me."I liked a few things about this one: the power struggles, the descriptions of war strategies at various levels of command...
The characters were perfectly wrought, and achingly human, with each life being so significant and yet miniscule in the face of war.It's true that Hemingway can't write a real woman to save his life (Pilar is fantastic, but really he writes her as a man), and Maria's adoration of Robert gets tiresome, but really that's the only false note in this entire epic.
Yes, it sounds unnatural, but that's because Hemingway is perfectly capturing how people who don't speak the same native language communicate -- the dialogue is in actually in Spanish between the American Robert and the Spanish guerillas.
I think it suited Hemingway to write stories, and perhaps short novels - I also remember enjoying The Old Man and the Sea and images from that book stayed with me for years.
Such a 'truth' is not easy task to convey, especially when the author is working with events which took place more then 60 years previously.Hemingway wrote his novel much closer to the time of the events described yet I couldn't manage to make that leap into believing in the fiction he was presenting.
Lo bueno que me dejó este libro fue la curiosidad que me dio por leer más acerca de la guerra civil española.
Por otro lado, Hemingway demuestra lo que sabe: escribir buenas novelas.Lo que me gusta, es que siendo sólo cinco días de guerra, logra hacer un libro completo, lleno de recuerdos e historias emocionantes.
Me toca un poco el hecho de saber que podrían ser la últimas horas de mi vida, me pongo en ese lugar y como que reflexiono.
Sí, los personajes son muy cercanos y "vivos", y de pasada, da a conocer un poco sobre la guerra civil española.
He drank hard and worked harder, penning stories filled with drinkers, bullfighters, soldiers and simple words.He sometimes wrote in short sentences.
The book still takes all challengers, holding court in its sun-baked piazza, its old haunches disguising a muscular story that is a match for any young pretender.This is a story of life and love and death.
In the book a young American fights.
A nation at a crossroads, a place so clearly dear to the writer’s heart.There is beauty here, in this novel.
But it is a harsh beauty.For Whom The Bell Tolls, is one of the greatest novels of the twentieth century, but this no feel-good story.
He says a farewell to María and her partners, and dies when shooting against a sudden attack of the enemy.The last section of the novel is the main character lying with a machine gun, covering the retirement of the guerrilla men.This novel, first published in 1940, is the longest and most ambitious of the author, and is considered as a masterpiece.Its reading is essential to get to know Hemingway during the spanish conflict, the republic's fall was a hard blow for him.Robert Jordan is everything the writer would have liked to be, a man prepared to sacrifice his life for the cause in which he strongly believes.
A personal favorite of mine.It is a macho-version of the archtypal journey-story: it starts with a man, or more usually, a bunch of men (and maybe a woman, to spice things up), and they have a mission.
The man, in this case, is Robert Jordan, an American fighting against Franco in the Spanish Civil War. At the start of the novel, in true Hemingway style, he is lying on his stomach, listening to the wind in the pine trees, studying the Spanish countryside.
Robert joins a group of partisans, meeting three central characters: Pablo, Pilar, and Maria, the woman with whom he will fall in love.
Hemingway’s stylistic choice of words, the density and intelligent distribution of his sentences, his judicious use of figures of speech made every part of the book graspable – the scenes, vivid… the sounds, almost audible.His use of simple Shakespearean language and Spanish profanity, I found really amusing.
But what I really loved about this book was the genuine emotionalism it evoked.
I can give this book a multitude of 5 stars.
And if you will ask me how much I love this book, I’ll say, “A bushel and a peck and some in a gourd” :)
The Spanish Civil War is a very interesting historical event, but this story is full of bad dialogue, glorifies the brave American, and largely ignores the plight of the Spaniards themselves - not to mention that the love interest is as one-dimensional as a blowup sex doll, which is pretty much all that her character serves as in this book.
I recommend Orwell's Homage to Catalonia if you want to know what the Spanish Civil War was like - unlike Hemingway who was just a reporter in Spain, Orwell was really a soldier.
این ناقوس مرگ کیست یا زنگها برای که به صدا در میآیند نام رمانی است از ارنست همینگوی که در سال ۱۹۴۰ منتشر شد. این رمان روایت داستان رابرت جوردن سرباز آمریکایی است که در میانه جنگهای داخلی اسپانیا به بریگاد بینالمللی پیوستهاست. وی به عنوان متخصص مواد منفجره وظیفه یافتهاست پلی را که بر سر راه دشمن قرار دارد منفجر کند.
این ناقوس مرگ کیست یا زنگ‌ها برای که به صدا در می‌آیند نام رمانی است از ارنست همینگوی که در سال ۱۹۴۰ منتشر شد. این رمان روایت داستان رابرت جوردن سرباز آمریکایی است که در میانه جنگ‌های داخلی اسپانیا به بریگاد بین‌المللی پیوسته‌است. وی به عنوان متخصص مواد منفجره وظیفه یافته‌است پلی را که بر سر راه دشمن قرار دارد منفجر کند.
A little better than Hemingway's other books, but that does not say much.
For Whom the Bell Tolls has all the Hemingway staples: an obsession with war and violence, an over-idealization of romantic love, and lackluster writing.
Hemingway also makes Robert Jordan, our protagonist, a little more thoughtful, as he questions the ethics of killing people and whether the act should bring pleasure.
He also tries to curtail his anger, thus deepening his relationship with masculinity in a much needed way in comparison to Hemingway's other stolid male characters.Overall, I would not recommend For Whom the Bell Tolls unless you like reading about people fighting each other and/or about insta-love.
I won't deny my youthful bloody-lust to travel afar and get the girl and die in valor "fighting the good fight"- before those words were emptied by experience and observation-; and to read the messages-in-bottles (all polished sea-glass smooth by now) my teenage self is tossing into a flood tide from far, far away in some distant dimension (where he hardly resembles myself, and I am ashamed of him) this book is "written-well".
Hemingway wants people to believe this is life, but it's fiction and that's enough.
This is a "great book".
Arka fonda İspanya iç savaşı varken insan ruhunun derinliklerine doğru katmanlı bir yolculuğa çıktım bu kitapla.
Okuma süreci ve sonrasında pek çok soruya yanıt aradım.
Madem bir savaş kitabı oradan başlayalım.
İnsanlar var, kendi canından vazgeçmişken başkasını öldürmeye hakkı olmadığını düşünen.
Hemingway bu soruyu öyle bir şiddetle sorduruyor ki okuyucuya kolay kolay etkisinden çıkamıyorsunuz.
Sonra geçiyoruz bireysel anlamda insana.
Savaş var, dağın ortasındalar ama insan varsa duygu da var.
Ya insana dair diğer duygular.
Bir de “şimdinin gücü” var.
Son zamanlarda pek popüler olan bu cümleye Hemingway yıllar öncesinden göz kırpıyor.
Temas ettiği pek çok konu var kitabın.
Pek çok sorusu var.
I felt kind of guilty, though, because I grew up a couple miles away from Oak Park, Illinois, which styles itself as an integral part of Hemingway’s youth, and some people I respected liked his work.
Still, you know how it goes, twenty years can pass with other books besides Hemingway.After reading Ben’s comments I stopped at the local library and the only Hemingway title on the shelves was For Whom The Bell Tolls.
Come and see.Come, come.Come and see.Come and see Spot.Look, Spot.Oh, look.Look and see.Oh, see.And I thought, holy hell, Hemingway writes like a Dick and Jane book!
I’ve also heard people describe Hemingway’s books as over-masculine guy-lit.


Sweeney was a career military man and Hemingway's personal advisor on military issues such as in "For Whom The Bell Tolls." Interestingly, Fidel Castro was said to have used Hemingway's novel as a reference on guerrilla warfare even though Castro had only met Hemingway but one time at a fishing tournament in Havana in 1960.Hemingway spent a relatively lengthy period of time at the Hotel Ambos Mundos in Havana.
Room number 511 of the Hotel Ambos Mundos, the only room where Hemingway stayed, is said to be where Hemingway wrote some chapters of "For Whom the Bell Tolls." Seeing the places in Cuba associated with Hemingway intrigued me more about this novel and made my reading of this book more enjoyable.
i might attempt to pick this up again some day but at the moment it's marked as dnf. it was just so dull and lacklustre i couldn't make it past the first 100 pages
Πολύ δυνατό βιβλίο. Το θέμα άλλωστε, προδιαθέτει για κάτι τέτοιο. Ένας εμφύλιος πόλεμος. Ισπανία 1937.Δεν έχω διαβάσει ποτέ για τον ισπανικό εμφύλιο, που νομίζω παρουσιάζει ιδιαίτερο ενδιαφέρον. Ωστόσο η ιστορία που εκτυλίσσεται λέει πολλά, για την κατάσταση. Ένα βιβλίο με πολιτικές και κοινωνικές διαστάσεις. Εσωτερικοί μονόλογοι των ηρώων, την ώρα της μάχης ζωντανεύουν την ιστορία. Χαρακτηριστικός διάλογος δύο ηρώων στο ίδιο στρατόπεδο, που μου έμεινε:- Είσαι και συ κομμουνιστής;- Όχι. Αντιφασίστας.Δεν έχω πολλά να πω. Από τα καλύτερα που διάβασα φέτος.
sadece 4 günde olanları okuyarak iliklerime kadar savaşa battım. müthiş bir deneyim.
