https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9600.Canary_in_a_Cat_House
Vonnegut's first attempt at a collection of short fiction was superseded some year later by "Welcome to the Monkey House," which contains all of the stories found here, save one, and adds many more besides.
But only nearly so.Vonnegut completists may want to track this volume down because, although the aforementioned "Hal Irwin's Magic Lamp" was eventually collected in 1999's "Bagombo Snuff Box," the version found there was a later re-write.
For those who are less fanatical, both "Welcome to the Monkey House" and "Bagombo Snuff Box" are highly recommended and should suffice.
Typical Vonnegut "ideas" (that's good!) Written early in life, while still learning to use his wit and pith as a chisel (that's not great, but it's acceptable.) Ultimately, shows many glimpses of the eerie prescience in his later, stronger, works but lacks the wow factor. Could use sprinkles (Mmm... sprinkles.)
I somehow found a first edition of this, don't have it now, god I wish that I still had it.
Written over 50 years ago, some of his short stories really depict the current age. I chuckled when reading about the 5 ft tv or the 2000 world,s fair. Kurt Vonnegut is a master writer.I also chuckled when I paid $30 for this book after a long search. It originally cost 35 cents
Loved it!
I’ve never thought of Vonnegut as a short story writer.
I suppose that’s why I’ve never particularly enjoyed rereading Canary in a Cat House.
Yet, when I began rereading his work after his death, I discovered I actually liked what he did with the format.
They’re certainly not groundbreaking by today’s standards, but each contain themes that are grounded in Vonnegut’s time, and still carry enough universality to read well today.
While I still feel that Vonnegut’s talent rested in the novel, I’ll certainly go back to Canary more willingly in the future.
For my first Vonnegut short story collection, I decided to read the first collection he released.
Truth be told, it's hard to get ahold of, so I actually read the same stories in Welcome To The Monkey House, where all but one of the tales were included.
But I originally planned on reading that extra story via the library, and still might someday.I any event, this was classic Vonnegut (again).
I was really impressed by the depth he was able to pack into each of these shorts.
I could have definitely enjoyed any of them in an expanded form, but never felt like they needed to be longer.
An excellent collection of Vonnegut's short works. Each is a critique on humanity and war in its own way while each still carries the full weight of Vonnegut's trademark saying, "And so it goes." Great read.
A very dear friend gifted me this limited edition book for my birthday, which I carefully read at home so as not to damage it. Like all other Vonnegut creations, I loved this. I hope I see him on Tralfamadore some day soon.
Fantastic short story collection that questions war and life all with a humerous edge. Vintage Vonnegut.
Amazing. Thought provoking.
