https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/699645.Sitka
L’Amour describes him from a young orphan making his own way in the swamps of eastern Pennsylvania in the early parts of the 1800s to his journeyman years in the west, hunting and trapping, to time as a Shanghaied sailor to his comeuppance in San Francisco and then Alaska as a ship-owner and entrepreneur.While most all of L’Amour’s prolific work could classify as historical fiction, there is a distinction between those that are clearly “westerns” from the 1850s to the 1890s involving cowboys and Indians, gunslingers and lawmen, and the “others” those set in and about western themes without necessarily having the Gene Autry / Roy Rogers look and feel.
An orphan lives in a swamp, near the Susquehanna River, making a meager living selling herbs in the local village.His mother has died and the father becomes a mountain man, in the wilds of the Rockies.Jean LaBarge, has only one friend Rob Walker, a shy little boy from a good family.Who of course, don't want their son hanging around with a worthless kid ,who's mother is rumored to have been a gypsy!A group of thieves return to the area.Planning to rob and kill Captain Hutchins, a wealthy merchant, leaving soon for the West.
I launched into Sitka mere hours after finishing The Walking Drum, as I couldn't accept the idea that the adventure was over and immediately craved more of Louis L'Amour's unique blend of action, intrigue, and history.
Little does he know, however, when he sets out with the intention of making a fortune by sneaking fur pelts past Russian patrol ships, that his actions and knowledge will help to shape the futures of two nations.Once again, L'Amour's exceptional story-telling ability and stream-of-consciousness writing kept me turning the pages long after I intended to stop, and many an hour of sleep was lost to the desire to reach the end of the journey.
Mark Sitka down as another novel I would recommend to anyone, especially those who are fans of action / adventure, political intrigue, and historical fiction.
Talk about adventure!I feel fortunate to have visited the unique and interesting town of Sitka, Alaska, and therefore looked forward to reading this novel with great anticipation.
While most of the plot takes place in Alaska or in the surrounding seas, there are also lengthy sections in the American south as well as Siberia, and all the way to St. Petersburg.The book itself is about fifty percent longer than the average L’Amour novel and while there were, indeed, more “events” occurring, it seemed the overall novel dragged a bit in places.
This book could have been aptly titled "Shades of Anthony Hope".
I'm not saying Louis stole the story from Hope's The Prisoner of Zenda because all stories that we tell have been told by someone before us.
But I think Hope told it better.This book wasn't boring, hard to read, or a rip off.
More than likely, I'll be checking out some more L'Amour soon enough.But Sitka's characters didn't pop off the page, the story didn't drag me to the paper, and the plot always seemed like it was one page away from really getting started.All that said, the courthouse scene on the last couple of pages was fantastic.Three of five stars for good but not really good.Thanks for the read, L'Amour.
L'Amour is such a great storyteller, and several of his books are "go-to" books that I have read several times apiece. This is one I hadn't read before, and I really enjoyed it. It's not a cowboy tale - much of the action take place at sea. Very good.
And Mr. L'Amour shines again!
Best writer of all time of frontier stories. Who wouldn't dream of a man such as Labarge. An honest man who helped bring in Alaska to the States. Louis Lamore writes as if he lived these stories. Loved it!
I'm trying to keep an open mind, but my expectations are quite low for an adventure novel written by the King of Pulp in 1957, when men were men and women were, well, mostly props.UPDATEI'm embarrassed about how grumpy I was when faced with reading this book.
This first half is more of a standard adventure story - not bad, but not really my cup of tea.
Aside: I must admit, I thought of my father the whole time I was reading - he was a huge fan of L'Amour and probably read everything he wrote.
Jean LaBarge raised himself, in the outback of Pennsylvania in the mid 1800s, until good luck and a merchant he happened to help changed his life.
Decades later he is an expert in the wilds of the West, and in the ballrooms of San Francisco.
Then Alaska puts its stamp on him, and he will risk everything for its people, including a lovely woman.While not a sailor by any means, I found some of the events in the Alaskan channels have imprinted themselves on my memory.I recently read the beginning of SOLDIERS OF THE NORTH, a non-fiction covering this period in Alaska's history when Russia was losing its grip and the US was sharpening its focus.
My first L'Amour book--he is a master storyteller, weaving compelling narrative with interesting characters that seem to have multiple dimensions.
L'Amour even moves away from some stereotypes when describing the Tlingits of southeast Alaska (where I lived for several years), but he doesn't move far enough away.
First Nations people are described as naturally warlike and easily persuaded by simple gifts.
I loved the descriptions of the southeast, and thrilled when I recognized areas he described, and I do appreciate L'Amour's skill, but I'm hesitant to read other books since I assume his generation's understanding of "cowboys and Indians" will simply anger/disappoint me.
I've never much cared for L'Amour's work, but having grown up in Alaska, and having found this book for 25 pennies, I was curious about this story of back home. It was a pretty good yarn, steeped in historic events, and his descriptions of the coasts and woodlands brought back memories. My only real complaint about this story was that it felt rushed. Entire passages that spanned months, and contained vital information for the plots, were given little more than a half page treatment.
This one is about a man who was a hunter, trader, businessman, sailor, fighter, and adventurer who was instrumental in helping the U.S. purchase Alaska in 1867.Jean LaBarge grew up as an orphan living near the Great Swamp along the Susquehanna River in Pennsylvania.
Captain Hutchins is so grateful that he takes Jean along with him to the west.Jean settles down in San Francisco and he and Hutchins become partners buying furs and selling supplies to the Alaska traders and other seagoers.
Near the end Helena and Jean must travel to St. Petersburg to meet the Czar and suggest and entice him into selling Alaska to the United States.
After a too long preamble that literally plays no part until the very last pages of the book, we next find Jean on the west coast as a young man in San Francisco after a throw away paragraph or two of a bunch of stuff happening to him all over the Pacific.
Then a trip to Washington DC to convince his now political friend from his youth to buy Alaska, back to San Francisco, capture by the Russians after another illegal trade run to Sitka, exile to Siberia(!) and trial in Sitka.
This was an attempt for me to get more into Westerns and my first L'Amour book, so I was not too sure what to expect.
I had read some Western-like books in Spanish classes of 19th century Spanish authors Emilia Pardo Bazán and Vicente Blasco Ibáñez, and I've long wanted to get into nature/frontier-themed books.I liked the book a lot for its well-explained and dramatic choreography of action and fight scenes.
It's expected, but just got silly, and I hope L'Amour's other, later works, if I read them, aren't as cringeworthy in that respect.
I first read this when it first came out in the mid 80’s and read it a few times over the years.
Unfortunately, it got lost in a move over ten years ago and as I am trekking back through all of my Louis L’Amour titles, I was disappointed to know this one was not on Kindle.
Now that it was released in the Kindle version this summer, I promptly pre-ordered it and waited…it was well worth the wait.This is not your typical Louis L’Amour western, and it is more of a historical fiction novel that teaches you a bit about history and early frontier times in California and Alaska.
This is not so much a "western" as typically defined by stores and libraries, but L'Amour insisted he wasn't writing westerns, he was just writing historical stories set in the west.In this book, we follow a young man from his early years in Texas to San Francisco where he earns his way to buying a ship and trading with Alaska, which is at the time owned by Russia.
In the process he earns the enmity of a Russian noble, and the support of another (and his wife's affection).The story focuses on the process by which America ended up buying Alaska, as well as the people, politics, landscape, trade, and more of frontier Alaska and San Francisco.
The More I Read the More I Want to ReadL'Amour novels are always interesting, well written, and worth the time it takes to read them. Someone recently told me that of all the L'Amour novels, he thought that Sitka was "the best." Now I've read it too! And it was great! Indeed, the more I read the more L'Amour novels I plan to read until I've no more to read.
Another wonderful book by Louis L'Amour. This time set in the 1800's on the frontier near the Susquehanna valley and working westward to San Francisco and Sitka (before statehood). Spent time every night reading this saga of Jean Labarge and his boyhood friend Rob Walker. I thoroughly enjoyed this book and wish it had a sequel.
Excellent read and a wonderful look at history.
Silly little story. Had to read it because of the name.
Strong dashing hero, beautiful adoring princess. Classic fairy tale stuff.
My first L’Amour, probably not his best. My favorite scene was the crew portaging the Susquehanna.
Great characters, sailing, adventure, fighting.. Alaska!
Read this book before we toured Alaska. Entertaining with historical insights of the Alaska frontier. Easy to read.
An exciting story of Jean LaBarge from childhood through his adventures in CA, Alaska, and Siberia. A bit of adventure, romance, history.
Took this on as a challenge to read a Louis L'Amour book after finishing the biographical book the Education of a Wandering Man. Dipped into several before settling on this one. So far so good. This is an excellent story -- a little bit of everything: adventure, romance, war and peace, sailing, trapping and selling -- something for everyone.
Entertaining, easy and quick to read, just like the average Louis Lamour novel.
A first rate adventure yarn. I've read some of his stuff I liked more but you really cant go wrong with LL.
meh
