https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26475.Letters_from_Africa_1914_1931
I don't think I would recommend to start with these letters and the short stories like I did, and as I have still to read "Out Of Africa", I am not the right person to recommend it either, but I can say from the bottom of my heart that Karen Blixen is a fascinating personality who lived through one of the most exciting eras in world history with a brilliant intelligence and a mission!That is reason enough to start getting to know her from any one of the many possible angles.
Bogen består af 530 sider (Del 1 280 sider, del 2 250 sider).
The letters give great insight into the relentless financial pressures and strains she was under, her isolation from the arts which she loved so much and her conflicted feelings/views of the "natives" as she liked to call the black people of the different tribal groups in Kenya.
The Dinesen letters were of great interest to me because I too am very much interested in Kenya and have a lot for it's people.
The letters give me a glimpse into an outsiders view of life and people in the former colony and of what life was like for the people at that time.
I've actually read this twice before years ago, and on the third time around this time I was looking for something specific in it (so still have it marked as to-read mainly to remind me) - but I seem to keep getting waylaid with other books..
Although I expected and would have greatly appreciated more details of the author's life in Africa(à la Out of Africa), it was nonetheless wonderful to read her personal philosophies of life and to better understand her as a person.
For a collection of letters, this was really entertaining.
I bought it as a gift for my grandmother -- one of her favorite authors -- and ended up guilty of reading-before-wrapping.
The story behind Karen Blixen's stories was actually very inspiring, and kept me moving from one segment to the next when I thought I should have lost interest, wrapped the book up, and sent it away.
The thing that struck me most was her descriptions and emotional responses to lion hunting.
Definitely worth reading, but especially if you already have an interest in the author.
This is a reread for me. It's one I keep by the bed and read parts from time to time. Her letters cover much more than her life in Africa (which is my favorite part to read!) -- her philosophies of many aspects of life, some more interesting to me than others.
if you want to know some of the back story behind "out of africa" this is a really enlightening read. some of her philosophizing gets irritating, but that's one of the dangers of reading the letters of a writer.
These are the letters that Out of Africa was based upon. A bit dense at times, but also surprisingly engaging if you're in the right mood.
I gave up less than half way through. The narrative on life in Africa was interesting to a point, then repetitive.
i like this book iwant to learn things about inside
