https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36967019-the-favorite-sister
One of my goals this year was not to push through books I'm not enjoying (as it never seems to result in a productive review for the author or publisher), so I'd rather stop here and state that it just wasn't for me.
I would, however, encourage you to check out the positive reviews on Goodreads, as these readers have highlighted aspects that you may find interesting and will help you decide if this book is right for YOU.
I wish the author, publisher, and all those promoting the book much success and connections with the right readers.
I did not enjoy reading The Favorite Sister, but I respect its message.  The Favorite Sister is about 5 women who continuously tear each other down on a reality TV show (a la The Real Housewives) that “espouses” feminism. These women do whatever it takes to stay relevant and remain in the spotlight. Filled with hideous characters who only care about themselves, this was not an easy book for me to read. Stephanie, Brett, Kelly, Lauren, and Jen are the stars of Goal Diggers--a reality show that s
I did not enjoy reading The Favorite Sister, but I respect its message.
The Favorite Sister is about 5 women who continuously tear each other down on a reality TV show (a la The Real Housewives) that “espouses” feminism.
Filled with hideous characters who only care about themselves, this was not an easy book for me to read.
Stephanie, Brett, Kelly, Lauren, and Jen are the stars of Goal Diggers--a reality show that showcases millennial women in their attempts to build successful careers, while at the same time give back through philanthropic causes.
This book was in the same vein as the Real Housewives franchise (Carol and I did a buddy read together, and she made this astute observation).
There are many other characters in the book, other women in the reality show, however it is mainly Brett and Stephanie's story.In the beginning of this book, I really didn't like it at all.
Eventually, I had a firm grasp on who all the major players were in the story.I did not like this book as much as Jessica Knoll's debut novel, Luckiest Girl Alive, but I enjoyed it, nevertheless.
The story revolves around five successful women that star in a reality TV show that showcases their businesses and lives.
It is revealed in the first chapters that one of the stars, Brett, has been murdered and the novel describes the events leading up to that point.
The story is told in different points of view and alternates between the present and the past.
The dynamic between the characters reminded me of the women in the Housewives reality TV shows, I generally don't watch them but still enjoyed this novel very much.
If you're a fan of the Housewives series then you will likely enjoy this novel.
My reviews can also be found at: https://deesradreadsandreviews.wordpr...2.5 StarsI was really intrigued after reading the description for this novel. “a thriller starring competitive sisters whose dark secrets and lies result in murder when they sign onto a reality TV show.” In the novel, five successful women are starring in Season 4 of Goal Diggers, a popular reality show. Goal Diggers purports that it’s different than other reality TV. This show is supposed to be about women who are doing so
In the novel, five successful women are starring in Season 4 of Goal Diggers, a popular reality show.
She had some personal issues in previous seasons but this is supposed to be her comeback season.Lastly, we have Jen Greenberg who became successful through her very popular vegan food line.
She’s also known to be the most ruthless of all the ladies.Stephanie, Lauren, and Jen have secrets too…The producers hope that the season will be drama filled and shocking.
However, they have no idea just how shocking things will get.…When I first saw the title I actually thought it said GOLD Diggers and wondered how that was supposed to empower women?
One of my guilty pleasures is watching reality T.V. Shocking right!?!😳 I’d like to think I’m a level-headed educated woman.
Well here is your sneak peek...and let me warn you, it’s not pretty!There are so many characters in this book that I just couldn’t keep up nor could I keep them apart.
Don’t let me sway you!
If you enjoy your dose of reality TV, (our secret🤫) then you may really enjoy this one!A fantastic Traveling Sister read!🤗💞Thank you to NetGalley, Simon & Schuster and Jessica Knoll for an ARC to read in exchange for an honest review.
There are definitely things that I enjoyed in Jessica Knoll’s second novel, “The Favorite Sister”....
I was interested enough to find out what happened of course....and there ‘are’ a couple of those famous twists..........but I found Jessica’s writing entertaining- just for the sake of tidbit-funny - or tidbit powerful.....
Jessica Knoll has some great quotes.....’throughout’.
She has a great third eye into contemporary life.
Healthy people are people who feel connected to their communities, who are loved, and are supported by those around them, and who have a sense of purpose in their lives.
Healthy people do not waste their precious energy trying to make themselves smaller”.
Thank You Simon and Schuster, Netgalley, and Jessica Knoll 3.5
I tried so many times to read THE FAVORITE SISTER.
I think I may have aged out of the targeted demographic for Jessica Knoll books.
We both loved it so much.This book, however, is more chick-lit, with countless characters and POV's.
Hey, I love my reality TV, and I'm sure this book gets better if you stick with it--I just gotta throw in the towel early on this one.I really think Knoll is an extremely talented writer and I will deff try any future books.
But, THE FAVORITE SISTER is going to be passed down to my daughter- it might be perfect for her!
The thinking that women of all shapes and sizes can be beautiful is still hugely problematic, because it is predicated on the idea that the most important thing a woman has to offer the world is her appearance.” Because at the heart of it, they are all mean girl nasty; snarky egotists.
So, it took me awhile to realize that Knoll has perfectly nailed the whole concept of reality show contestant.
I think the traits for a good screenplay have been taken to heart, because this book reads like it’s been written totally with the idea of translating it into a movie or mini-series.
Once I thought I had the dynamics and characters figured out, the narrator would change and everything I thought I knew was turned over.I have followed Jessica Knoll’s work since her days at Cosmopolitan Magazine, when she wrote her Josie stories.
Brett, Lauren, Jen, and Stephanie are the only remaining cast members from the original cast of a reality show called Goal Diggers—a show about women in their late 20s/early 30s who own their own businesses and are doing incredible things.
We see this play out in the novel, both between biological sisters Brett and Kelly, and between the four original sisters of the show.I also enjoyed the setting being in this reality television world.
4 WTH Stars 🌟🌟🌟🌟If you like to keep up with the Kardashians or can’t wait to see who gets voted off the island next, then you will enjoy this book...
a cast of women who appear perfect on the outside and yet are all hot messes....
Seriously the last 20% of this book was quite the ride on the crazy train!Quite a few of my book friends had a hard time getting into this and thought the start was very slow...
yet still very entertaining🙃Strongly recommend if you enjoy reality TV, hot messes, and the crazy train...*** thank you to the publisher and Net Galley for a copy of this book***PS: I am currently watching The Voice😉
3.5 Stars* (rounded up) Campy and purely entertaining A book about a reality TV show involving women?
Five successful women are about to star in another season of “Goal Diggers.”  Let the games begin!
Stephanie is Brett’s former best friend, an author of several fiction novels and now, a fictional memoir.
Kelly, Brett’s sister has been vying for a spot on the show for years.
For Brett, Kelly, Stephanie and cast members Lauren and Jen, the cuffs come off.
Picture drama like: “Puck” in the “Real World: San Francisco.” If you like reality tv, then this is a novel you will find entertaining.
in fact, this book has quite a lot going for it - it’s a fast, twisty read, it’s very au courant with its intersectional feminism angle, and it makes some smart, and probably unpopular, points about oorah sisterhood and the state of modern feminism.but it’s also a reality show murrrrderrr plot, featuring the cast of Goal Diggers - Season 4, a show where successful young female entrepreneurs middle-finger the expectations of the patriarchy, support each other in their endeavors and inspire their female viewers with their accomplishments achieved in the show’s empowering, pro-woman environment.
So, I feel like this book will be on a spectrum....
I have seen many positive reviews for this one on goodreads but I'm on the other side of the spectrum.
We can't all love the same books and unfortunately this one didn't work for me at all.
This had potential to be a a diamond in the rough...
but man this diamond had issues with shining.
I had to put this book down 3-4 times over the week to see if I could get into it.
Each time, I felt the book kept dragging and dragging.
What was best about this story of five successful women on a reality TV show was the ending, which provided lots of fun unexpected twists and turns.Getting to that ending was a little challenging because the story is told from the points of view of the five different women on the show.
All of the characters are necessarily cut-throat and looking out for their own business and success, hiding lots of secrets that are revealed over the course of the story.I’m not a “reality” TV fan, but the way the true secrets versus the made-for-TV rivalries made for some enjoyable reading.
4 questioning reality stars to The Favorite Sister! ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ Five successful women are appearing on a reality show called Goal Diggers, and the season ends with the murder of one of the stars. The book covers the events leading up to the murder. I don’t watch tv often, but when I do, my flavor of choice is reality tv. I think it’s partially because I’m part of the reality tv generation. Just as soon as I hit adulthood, Survivor, Big Brother, and The Bachelor, were on everyone’s watch list. I also
4 questioning reality stars to The Favorite Sister!
⭐️ ⭐️ ⭐️ ⭐️ Five successful women are appearing on a reality show called Goal Diggers, and the season ends with the murder of one of the stars.
I don’t watch tv often, but when I do, my flavor of choice is reality tv.
I also watch because it’s a true escape from my own reality.
I would expect nothing less from Jessica Knoll.
I enjoyed reading and discussing this book with my Traveling Sisters!
Thank you to Jessica Knoll, Simon Schuster, and Netgalley for the ARC.
The Favorite Sister is available now!
Chalked full of drama the story takes readers through the layers to find out just what happened.After seeing reviews all over the spectrum for The Favorite Sister I wasn't sure what to expect going into this book and after finishing I feel I can see both sides.
The setting felt spot on though giving a glimpse into the behind the scenes of "reality" television and of course it was intriguing to find out just what happened to Brett.
The premise of this book sounded very interesting and I read a lot of positive reviews, so I thought this book must be better than Luckiest Girl Alive, also by this Author.
I just could not get into that book but decided to throw caution to the wind and attempt to read this Author's work again due to the high reviews of The Favorite sister.Well, we all can't like the same book.
The premise sounded as if this book would be high drama full of secrets, lies betrayal, jealously, and backstabbing with some mystery thrown in.
⭐⭐⭐⭐ / 5Calling all fans of reality TV!! The Favorite Sister by Jessica Knoll is going to be for you if your guilty pleasure is binge watching reality TV because that's exactly what this book read like. Honestly, I wasn't a huge fan of this author's first novel, Luckiest Girl Alive, but after reading this book Knoll has a believer in me! This book also had a little bit of a Fitness Junkie vibe, but dealing with reality TV AND fitness, and not just fitness. The Favorite Sister is about a cast of
The Favorite Sister by Jessica Knoll is going to be for you if your guilty pleasure is binge watching reality TV because that's exactly what this book read like.
Honestly, I wasn't a huge fan of this author's first novel, Luckiest Girl Alive, but after reading this book Knoll has a believer in me!
The Favorite Sister is about a cast of women on a New York City reality show called Goal Diggers.
You are basically reading this book for the delicious drama of a reality television show.
If you love reality TV and drama I am almost certain you will love this book too!
It took me about a week after finishing this book to get around to writing this review - partially because life is busy, but also because I wanted to give myself time to process what I had read.
Everything I've read by her (this + her previous book) has been crafted in such a way that leaves me impressed and wishing for more.
Should you buy it?: Usually my 3-star reviews end up in the 'no' category here, but I'm actually going to recommend that you do give this one a go.
Some ladies love reality television and some do not, and it seemed to have some effect on how they felt about this book.
The concept of the show the book features is basically supposed to be women doing it for themselves (I approve) but they constantly tear each other down.
Each of them is desperate to stay on the show that tends to boot people who aren't interesting enough...
I'm going to give this one a 2.5 but that doesn't mean I think it's a bad book.
If you're a reality TV fan, I think it may suit you better.
DNF.
Eek. This is no heartwarming Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants, that's for darn sure.
This book finds itself as a contender for  most difficult to enjoy The backdrop of the story swirls around the world of reality television and is narrated by three of the characters-Brett, her bestie Stephanie, and Brett's sister, Kelly.
But a small part of me really enjoyed it( even book loving me has dabbled in the past with reality t.v.) Plain and simple, I feel like a yo-yo.
I like that it pokes at the dark and twisty part of "sisterhood." Ouch, I didn't like it because it was just too raw.
We think we are getting a peephole view of the lives of strangers, but what happens when the cameras stop rolling for five successful, competitive women is nothing short of deadly.
You think the players on those reality shows can be brutal?THE FAVORITE SISTER by Jessica Knoll is a look at the rest of the story when egos, pride, jealousy and insecurity erupt and family rivalries boil over.
Too much vitriol, too many insecure egos and game-playing made this a difficult read to enjoy for me, perhaps because I am not a fan of the nastiness of reality shows and being part of the lives of these characters off screen was like an exercise in drowning in acid.
Reality TV is like driving drunk. You know it might kill you, but there is something rakishly sexy about participating in what may be your own demise. 2.5 stars. Oh, how I wanted to love this book. A murder mystery woven into the lives of five hyper-successful women, layered with all the drama and scandal typical of reality TV? Sign me up. The blurb just sounds so juicy and fun, the cast of characters is wonderfully diverse, and if that isn't enough, that final tagline promises the exploration
this novel will be the starting point for a lot of book club discussions.
Having multiple narrators means each woman is able to cast herself as the victim and tear down the other characters, when the next chapter just spins it back the other way.It was only the last 10% or so of the book that truly picked up for me, but wow, that ending is a wild ride.
I don't think anyone else should discount this book off-the-bat because there's still plenty about it to enjoy, but at the end of the day, it just didn't live up to my expectations.
If your reading experience is like mine, you're going to need to take a lot of notes in the first half.
They support the themes of this book which make them pretty crucial to the reading experience in my opinion.
The first half was a scrambled puzzle of character development overkill that in my opinion was totally unnecessary (and was a chore for me to read if I’m being honest), but it ended strong with dark but fully woke themes related to sisterhood feminism in all its undercutting sabotage and publicly supportive glory.
When the Real Housewives and Big Little Lies collide—Jessica Knoll's The Favorite Sister is a perfect concoction of both reality television and female dynamics.When I heard Jessica Knoll was coming out with a second novel that exploited the reality television genre in the same vein of the Real Housewives, I was immediately sold.
Goal Diggers is set to begin filming, but nobody would have guessed that it would end in murder.I don't want to get any further into the plot than just introducing you to the cast and providing the main theme of the story.
One of the main characters dies, and we find that out very early on (we also know who, but not how or why), so while the majority of the book doesn't read like a thriller or mystery novel, the death was always in the back of my mind.
The Favorite Sister is full of unlikable characters who do horrid things and treat each other terribly, which I think a lot of people struggled with while reading the book, because it's hard to root for anyone (and honestly, I wasn't rooting for anyone - they all sucked!) but as I mentioned before, it reminded me of an extra dramatic episode of Real Housewives, so I enjoyed it!
(And yes, I happen to be a huge Housewives fan) I ended this book with an even higher level of respect for this author than I did before.Knoll held me captive with her first book, Luckiest Girl Alive: A Novel, and her ability to create a character full of snarkiness, delusion, insecurities and craziness, yet still get me to feel empathy for her.Here, she was able to do the same thing again, but times 5.
As for me:-I think the chapters where too long, and I learned to read to the end of the chapter before quitting for the day, as it took way too much time to figure out what was going on, who's POV I was reading, etc.
DNF at 16%
