https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/173526.The_Ragamuffin_Gospel
The best way I can describe this book is to quote from it: ---------------------------------------------------------------"When I get honest, I admit I am a bundle of paradoxes.
In admitting my shadow side, I learn who I am and what God's grace means."---------------------------------------------------------------"The gentleness of Jesus with sinners flowed from his ability to read their hearts.
Behind people's grumpiest poses and most puzzling defense mechanisms, behind their arrogance and airs, behind their silence, sneers and causes, Jesus saw little children who hadn't been loved enough and who had ceased growing because someone had ceased believing in them.
Some people may have trouble getting through it because it really challenged a lot of things that you may have held onto tightly for so long.
Upon reading this wonderful book, my eyes were open to a whole new world that I wasn't even aware that they were previously closed to.
Now, I find myself less judgmental of others and more open to compassion to those that might be struggling with whatever trials they are facing."We see a lot of people and we make assumptions.
Most people think they know what that means, but it really doesn't show in their lives.
I went into this book (written in 1990) thinking, "Okay, author, what are you going to tell me that I haven't read in the authors pumping out books after you?" I had planned to zip through it as quick as possible to check it off the list and put it on the shelf.It didn't take too many pages for me to realize that this was not that kind of book.
This is the kind of book you put on your "I need to reread this every few years so I don't forget how important the message is" shelf.Brennan Manning's message could be summed up in three words: God is gracious.
If you are interested in the Christian faith but find it self-righteous and restricting, this book might be a refreshing change of pace. This writer definitely refrains from judgement, and makes the case for self-acceptance of your own frailty and affirms that God eagerly takes on "special cases", and he proves we all somehow fall in that category. It is a humble book that gently puts it arms around those who have failed miserably in their faith and yet still want to try to find their way toward their Truth.
Thank God. It was time for that old life to disappear!And it was time for me to read this lovely book.
It was time to fully accept my ragamuffinness and let God love me anyway.
Though I have known this to be true, I had forgotten that the gospel was for me even after salvation was assured.Through the book, the picture of the Prodigal Son story spoke to me again in a new way.
Come into the house."This book will be a gift I give to those I love and those who need my love.
I will come back to The Ragamuffin Gospel again and again when I need that living water to wash over me.
Well, all the recommendations I received for this over the years were correct with a bullet. What a magnificent book. Some books teach. Some books inspire. Some books reveal. This did all that, but what it really did was help me love Jesus more and know the love of Jesus more. I loved Manning's bluntness and ability to incisively get to the heart of grace and God's love.
Such a good book! I really cannot believe it’s taken me this long to get around to it.
I was first introduced to Brennan Manning when I read his  Above All: He Took the Fall and Thought of Me  which is basically an exposition on Michael W. Smith's song "Above All." In that book, I saw some serious problems in his thought, but people assured me that I was simply misunderstanding what he had to say and that Brennan Manning really is a good guy who is faithful to what the Bible teaches. I was told that reading The Ragamuffin Gospel would accurately represent Manning's teaching. If th
This immediately disregards the 500-year-old doctrine of Penal Substitutionary Atonement which says that Jesus' death quantifiably paid for the sin of everyone who would be saved and holds that God's justice is satisfied because his wrath is poured out and that his mercy is displayed in pouring his wrath out on himself in the Son.The sacred-secular split is another thing which Manning is clear to address.
Reading books and sermons by various puritans, anyone can see that these people had profound understanding of Scripture and of the Christian life, but Manning's understanding of them seems to be shaped more by 
The gospel of grace calls us to forgive and not to judge, for I cannot reject the one that Jesus has accepted.
Thus we all commit idolatry countless times each day." In essence, he knows that he sins, but instead of guiltily avoiding it, he accepts it.
When I remain guilty and refuse to accept God's forgiveness, when I judge others, or when I read the Bible and pray to make God like me more, I reject grace.
He tells us, "Repent, trust in me, and I will teach you to accept my grace."In future days, I will turn away from God again and again.
There is a lot to love here amidst some of the shaky theology, and though critics jump in through those cracks with plenty of complaints, there is no denying the wonderful power of the cross in Manning's work.
Manning's work is also largely reactionary to the stifling legalism of modern churches.
Manning makes a razor sharp focus on God's grace because he assumes you have been exhausted by legalities.
I loved how Manning spoke to people with real struggles.
When we hear of God's grace, do you feel compassion or contempt?
And aside from that, everything there is to say of this nature about grace has already been said better and more eloquently and with more humbleness by Martin Luther or one of his disciples.Manning, on the other hand, set to work right away on alienating me and creeping me out.
I was already starting to get a nasty "Oprah Book Club" vibe off of him, and then on page 48 (in my edition) he dropped in a massive, massive overshare that may have made me throw up in my mouth just a little.
The Ragamuffin Gospel has given me a lot to think about and work on in my spiritual life.
What I’m focusing on now is what Manning pointed out as, ‘the greatest sin: to do the right thing for the wrong reason.’* We are all sinners and ‘many of us even pretend to believe we are sinners.
As a result, our whole spiritual life is pseudo-repentance and pseudo-bliss.’Brennan Manning, the author of The Ragamuffin Gospel was an ordained Catholic priest for many years.
It was apparent to me that Manning is a really good speaker, and that most likely this book is a conglomeration of stories he would tell as he traveled around to various speaking engagements.However, the way the personal stories and anecdotes were woven together with observations and exhortations was slightly inartful.
Particularly kludgy was the way Manning referenced passages and quotes from other authors - sometimes they were credited within the text and sometimes not; sometimes the may have been genuine, and sometimes probably not.
It is Good News for the Bedraggled, Beat-Up and Burnt Out. And, I don't care what anyone says, ALL OF US are ONE of those at one point or another in our lives. If you are shaking your head "not me" then please read this book to have the rose washed off your frames. :)I was reading this book when I read The Shack and there are element and themes that are similar in both books, but this one is not listed as a work of fiction (be cause it is not).
Sometimes this was all within the span of a single page.Upon reflection, I've come to this conclusion:FOR BELIEVERS (for sons and daughters of God), the essence of this book should strike a beautiful chord in our hearts and minds.
Through no merit of ours, but by his mercy we have been restored to a right relationship with God through the life, death, and resurrection of His beloved Son."Wow. Beautiful chord.That said, I have discovered the source of my uneasiness: context.Manning shares a part of his background in chapter two: "Growing up Catholic in the late 1930s and 1940s and 1950s, my central preoccupation was sin.
Manning says he wrote the book “for the bedraggled, beat-up, and burnt-out,” the marginalized folks to whom Jesus ministered: the children, the ill, the tax collectors, the adulterers and extortionists.
Manning understands better than most that behind our facades of order and self-assurance are inadequacies that can find healing only in Jesus.
Brennan challenges the reader to move past regret and shame, and move forward to seeking God's love again, eschewing sin in the process.
This book highlights a mistake we often make in our understanding of God...and corrects it.
I suspect I have significant differences with him on significant issues - but I can't be sure, because he's not concerned about those issues!However, his core message is powerful and refreshing -- that Jesus accepts broken sinners, and that we all inevitably fall into the trap of thinking we need to be/become good enough to deserve God's love.
Despite my reservations, I am understanding the gospel better as I read his book.
It speaks directly to my biggest blindspots, which I drift into repeatedly, through the refreshment of the simple gospel of the grace of Jesus.
FIRST TIME READING: I absolutely loved this book.
For a long time I felt like I didn't measure up to God's expectations and I was constantly frustrated because I never felt like I was good enough.
This time, I just don't know.
I had a hard time getting through it, and found myself getting more and more frustrated and confused.
If I had to sum up the message of this book, I think it would pretty much be, "You are a piece of crap, but luckily for you, God loves you anyway." I also think he puts some statements in there just for shock value, like saying that prostitutes are more welcome in Heaven than Christians are because prostitutes are more aware of their sins, or something to that effect.
I don't think the "average Christian" is open to or even capable of truly understanding its message.This book "gave a body" to this abstract, difficult-to-grasp concept of grace and the part it should play in our daily lives and how we relate to God. For me, it helped to read it more than once, though.
The first time may mostly acclimate the reader to the concepts being presented; the second time through drives it home a little more clearly I think.Manning's understanding of and perspective on grace has played a significant role in changing my own, and it has been a wonderful change that has not stopped at one particular point.
A feel-good gospel. Many of the points put forth in the book are unbiblical and contribute little towards the discipleship of God's people. Beyond these things, the book gets incredibly redundant after the first couple of chapters. I read this as a part of a small group bible study. While it did provoke discussion, it was generally to refute something Manning had said.
4.5 starsA solid book with a much needed, grace-filled message. I highly recommend it. At the same time, the pithy stories got on my nerves a little bit. I think my expectations might have been a little too high. See Kris's review.
It tries to help Christians to understand what they mean when they use the oft-quoted phrase about 'saved by grace'.
As Philip Yancey says in his book on the same subject: there's nothing we can do that will make God love us more, and nothing we can do that will make God love us less.Does that mean we can do whatever we like, that our lifestyle doesn't matter?
There weren't any brand new insights, to be sure, but for those struggling with the concept of works vs grace, or caught up in legalistic forms of Christianity, I recommend it most highly.Re-read 2012; I found it inspiring and encouraging all over again.
Consequently, all we can do is pretend to believe we have been forgiven." pg136 "If we weren't sinners and didn't need pardon more than bread, we'd have no way of knowing how deep God's love is." pg 188Also, there are sooo many stories that do not seem to tie into what he is saying and he only tells a small portion of each one so that I don't really know what he is talking about.
"If he had been preoccupied with the rock below (the future) or the tiger above (the past), he would have missed the strawberry God was giving him." After multiple readings, I cannot tell you how this fit into what was written before or after this.
This is the book he's probably most well known for, possibly in part due to the fact that it inspired Rich Mullins later in his life and he spoke candidly about how much Manning and this book influenced the way he lived as a Christian.
Perhaps the single most unique aspect of this - that Manning manages to hit home on pretty much every single page - is the focus on the pervasive sin that all people willingly and happily commit and how, even if we don't change our ways and become saints before we're called Home, that doesn't change the fact that God still wants us HOME.
Who doesn't love a good writer who weaves the work of others -- Dostoevsky, Dillard, Kung, Flannery O'Connor, Burghardt, et al -- into his personal story presenting a joyful, really good news, approach to faith?
Best of all, here is a Christina writer who doesn't eschew the faith journey of other traditions.
...the way of gentleness brings healing to ourselves and gentleness toward ourselves brings gentleness to others...Solidarity...frees the one who receives compassion and liberates the one who gives it in the conscious awareness "I am the other."""Christianity is not primarily a moral code but a grace laden mystery; it is not essentially a philosophy of love but a love affair; it is not keeping rules with clenched fists but receiving a gift with open hands."Happily, I snagged this copy at a library book sale so felt no qualms wielding my pencil as I read.
Brennan Manning wrote The Ragamuffin Gospel "for the bedraggled, beat-up, and burnt-out," the marginalized folks to whom Jesus ministered: the children, the ill, the tax collectors, the women.
Grace is defined as "the freely given and unmerited favor and love of God." But, as Manning points out, we have "twisted the gospel of grace into religious bondage and distorted the image of God into an eternal, small-minded bookkeeper." In reality, God offers us grace immeasurable.
Brennan Manning gently encourages us to embrace that grace in the face of our greatest needs.
Manning came face to face with his need, finally abandoning himself to grace.

Heartfelt encouragement to rest contentedly in the love, hope, and peace that is the gospel of grace.Frankly, this book didn't meet my rather high expectations, but I'm not too surprised that it fell short of the mark. Simplistic and unorganized at times, that still doesn't diminish its power to portray grace in beautiful ways.
This muddiness allows him to make it seem like life plays out exactly like he says it does, even if the stories are of his own invention.He also frequently — and I mean very frequently — uses block quotes from other authors and from his own writing with no attribution other than an endnote, so that it starts to feel not that he's supporting his arguments with well-turned phrases from others but that he's actually building the bulk of the book out of pasted-together passages from other places.What most frustrated me, though, was Manning's sloppy exegesis and theology.
When he proclaimed the gospel of grace, he preached from his weakness the power of God. That is what converted the Roman world and what will convert us, and the people around us, if they see the love of Christ has touched us.The confessing church of American ragamuffins needs to join Magdalene and Peter in witnessing that Christianity is not primarily a moral code but a grace-laden mystery; it is not essentially a philosophy of love but a love affair; it is not keeping rules with clenched fists but receiving a gift with open hands.Several years ago, the renowned evangelical theologian Francis Schaeffer wrote, "True spirituality consists in living moment to moment by the grace of Jesus Christ." This book lays no claim to originality; it is simply a commentary on Schaeffer's statement.
