https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13147.Honeymoon
The characters have a good deal of depth for a quick beach read.
The mystery wasn’t huge in this one but it had enough to leave you reading in one sitting if you are a Patterson fan.
It’s the characters in this book that make it because there is so much going on between them all!
Nora was an awful human being but very fascinating to read!
🤣My quick and simple overall: great quick read to enjoy on a hot day in the sun (in which by I mean I spent it in my recliner with air conditioning going).
I picked this book up in the resort library because I had forgotten to pack a quality book. Yes, I finished it, but that was because I didn't have a lot more options. A quick, easy read, it left nothing to talk about. If you like sex scenes, there are some. But it was lacking in mystery, suspense...well, really anything. The upside: This book will make me remember to pack a book next time!
Didn't think I was going to like this much, considering it is for adults and is a crime-thriller type thing. But I did enjoy it! I've been trying to get out and read a wider range of material and this book was the beginning of that. I'm excited to see what other wonders I will discover along the way.
This stands out as one of the worst books I have ever read. Just a taste of the cheesiness within:"Connor vs. Jeffrey. They were both so much fun. They made her laugh, made her feel special. And there was certainly no denying that they were wonderful in bed -- or wherever else they chose to have sex. They were tall, in wonderful shape, handsome as film stars. No, actually, they were more handsome than the film stars she knew. The fact was, Nora loved being with Connor and Jeffrey equally. Which made her decision that much harder."
Cardboard characters, lots of unnecessary chit-chat which, I guess, served as a filler for those half-empty pages and unlikely ending, combined with stupid behavior of those cardboard characters (surprise, surprise!) leaves me unimpressed and in the future I will definitely have doubts about reading anything Patterson wrote.
Don't get me wrong, this book is not bad, it's just that it is so typical, full of cliches and unoriginal, that it's only good to read if you wish to waste some time.
I liked Nora Sinclair.
Like any James Patterson book, it was fast-paced and read quickly.
Instead, Patterson treats every single event in the book as a soap opera style twist before the commercial.
Instead, I found myself confused about some of the twists and their significance.
In fact, I'm still confused about the point of the subplot about a briefcase and large amount of money that has little to no relevance to the main plot at all.
In short, this might be the book that gets me to sweat off James Patterson completely.
Don't bother unless you are a James Patterson completionist (and I don't know how you can do that to yourself and be a serious reader).
How can Nora Sinclair pull it off with her marriage with one man and continue her affair of the other man, or how can she so easily transfer the money of her fiancé’s account to hers’ in Cayman Island.
How can she free from all the 3 murder charges and one attempt to poison the FBI agent O’Hara with all had happened, the story never mentions how she gets away from those charges which I don’t know any lawyer can defend her that well.
The story also never lets us know what is in Nora’s mom Olivia’s letter which left in Nora’s purse; what really makes Olivia wants to kill her husband besides she is a lunatic?
Ooops. Deleted the review.Audiobook - Narrated by Campbell Scott and Hope Davis - Good narration, although I don't particularly enjoy female narrators.This book is totally unbelievable and cheesy...LOTS cheesy. But I enjoyed it anyway, for the second time.
Very enjoyable and fast-paced, but the ending was disappointing.
What I liked.I like Patterson's short chapters and easy introduction to his characters. What I didn't like.It lacked realism in some parts of the story. Yes, I would recommend it to those who like an easy read with some suspense.
Not a great book!! You can expect everything before hand. This is the first books of Patterson, I have read. When it comes to thriller, Sidney sheldon is the first man who comes in my mind. At many times, while reading the book, I felt that the author tried to use the formula of sheldon but failed at the result. Some parts of the story were stopped without a proper conclusion. Some were given hype but ended very boring. The writer failed to create an interest for the readers to proceede further.
Ok, there are some really cheesy moments in this book, but it's a quick, easy read that is also entertaining. No, there are no themes or plot points to discuss, no great book club questions, but it never promises to be that. James Patterson is really the master at formulaic writing, and I mean that in the nicest possible way. The structure is so clear, the characterizations so crisp, that this is an incredibly easy book to read. With soap opera-esque twists, this is a good beach read with lots of interesting (sometimes laughable) entertainment.
Another James Patterson book that's quite enthralling and can't put down as easily.
Nora Sinclair a successful interior decorator, spends her time between New York and Boston.
Because she is engaged to one of her clients in New York and married to one of her previous clients, a book author, in Boston.
As her current fiance dies unexpectedly while Nora is serving him dinner, Craig Reynolds, aka John O'Hara, begins to suspect something.
But he doesn't want Nora to know that he is an FBI agent so he disguises himself as Craig Reynolds.
I normally read James P books out of loyalty. He had me hooked with the first one I read London Bridges. I know he has written many books. This book didn't feature my lovable character Alex Cross. The main characer, the woman just had too many issues for me. I easily got tired of trailing her around the world as she lived out her imposter of a life.
Não sei que feitiço é este que me faz ler os livros do James num ápice mas não tenho interesse em saber pois isto só comprova o excelente escritor que é!
Se quiser ler palavras caras vou aos clássicos e não aos best-sellers dos dias de hoje.Sobre o livro: adorei o O'Hara e gostava de ler mais alguma coisa sobre ele mas com as colecções do Cross e da Private, o James já tem muito trabalho no que toca à escrita.A Nora é uma personagem fantástica mas ao mesmo tempo horrível: a estratégia dela é muito esperta, é preciso muita perícia para manter a identidade o mais misteriosa possível.
ada yang hilang dan tidak sesuai dengan kasus tersebut.karena kebingungan Castle minta saran dari teman2 penulisnya yang kebetulan waktu itu adalah Patterson sendiri dan Michael Connely (masing2 bermain sebagai diri sendiri lho).abis dengar cerita Castle mereka komen "That's it?
where's the twist?"nah, sewaktu baca buku ini saya teringat dengan adegan tersebut.
tidak tanggung-tanggung, si suami adalah penulis novel best seller yang digandrungi para wanita dan memiliki simpanan dana darurat mencapai 6juta dollar!dan ketika kemudian tunangan dan suaminya ini meninggal karena serangan jantung, saya hanya bisa geleng2 kepala...Patterson, you really really hooked me!tapi walaupun begitu, ada beberapa hal yang menurut saya kurang dijelaskan oleh Patterson.
I believe that if the FBI came across a person removing 4.3 million dollars from a recently suddenly deceased person’s account, the person suspected of removing said money would be dragged into FBI offices, and the computer suspected of making said transfer would be confiscated and taken apart to see if the transaction was made from it.
No-one has 4.3 million sitting in a bank account.
One person having such a large amount of money in a bank account is bad enough – but two wealthy men acting this way?
The sex scenes – oh my God, the sex in the book is straight out of a bad porn film.
In reality, Nora killed him for his money and she's not done yet, a literal "black widow." John O'Hara is the FBI agent assigned to investigate when Nora's fiance also dies in the same manner as her late husband.
They become engaged in a riveting game of cat and mouse as he tries to prove she killed her fiance and she tries to figure out why she feels there's more to the "insurance agent" (his cover) than he's letting on.Meanwhile, The Tourist has intercepted a suitcase and though not asked to has taken a peek at the contents finding a flash drive with the names and offshore account numbers of several people with account balances totaling over a billion dollars.
Satu lagi cerita tentang perempuan sakit jiwa, kali ini membunuh suami2nya (iya, bukan cuma satu suami) yang kaya raya demi uangnya.
Tapi bisa dibilang penyebab si Nora ini jadi tukang bunuh kurang ditegaskan disini.
Ok, karena masa lalunya, tapi apakah karena dia benci pada ayahnya?
atau karena orangtua2 angkatnya?
Lalu apa sih sebenarnya isi surat Ibu Nora, Olivia kepada Nora?
Alasan ibunya membunuh ayahnya?
atau ngasih tau kalo dia sebetulnya tidak sinting?
(yang udah bisa ketebak dari awal sebenernya).
Tapi lumayan ok lah, banyak twist nya juga.
Btw, kenapa sih James Patterson ini demen banget duet?
udah kek Anang aja -_-
Awful, awful, awful!
One of the worst books I've ever read.
John O'Hara could be funny at times, but otherwise this book was an utter waste of time.
I would have spent my time better watching paint dry.
I kept reading it because this book actually won awards and I kept thinking...this HAS to get better.Nope.
Truly sad that this book 1- could have won any awards and 2- that it actually got good reviews.The only reason to read this book is to see how truly awful it is.
I feel bad even donating this to the homeless shelter...yep, that bad.
Read this when it was first released but now I'm listening to the audiobook ... So far so goodFinished with the audio and if you like Patterson's stand alones you'll like this one. The only negative is while the readers had very pleasant voices the female reader had the same voice with no difference when changing female characters.
This book started out great with a black widow killer and a semi-smart investigator. The ending was a disapointment. Gaping hole in the logic. I think Patterson needs to screen his co-authored books a little more carefully or his reputation will suffer.
I would not have read it otherwise because it would have sounded to me like a fairly stock black widow thriller.
I like spy stories, or noir, or serial killers trying to catch other serial killers.This was not your standard black widow thriller.
I see why Patterson uses this book as his example for how to build plot and how to create an outline.Some really don't like his trickery.
I find Nora Sinclair particularly insidious that way because she's a black widow stereotype and that kind of image of women is often used to justify misogyny.

I loved this book. The writing was so amazing that for the first time I actually liked and understood the villain, while I had an irrational hatred for what could be considered the hero in this book. The tales of drama and mystery drew me in immediately and had me confused at the negative feelings I had for O'Hara which in turn led me rooting for Nora. If a writer can do that they have written an excellent book!
Light mystery read, although there were several huge things that bothered me. First, how did Nora escape suspicion once she killed the writer, especially if she had murdered Connor Brown seemingly a month before? And why did she fall in love with the insurance agent? That felt very off for her. And no one in the FBI would have thought to do a background research check on her, which would have led to discovering that her mother was in a psychiatric hospital? All in all, fun enough, but silly.
Undercover FBI John O'Hara is investigating Nora Sinclair, a possible black widow serial killer. It's been ages since I read a Patterson book and this was a lot of fun from start to finish. Fast paced, short chapters and a story it was easy to get lost in. Grade: 4/5
Super easy read. It was pretty predictable but it did surprise me in places. Overall, it was a pretty good book.
Very fun thriller that I thoroughly enjoyed! Best read on a beach, IMO.
