https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/232268.The_Locket
This book made me think about how God is at work in my life and how God uses all of my experiences to shape me into who I am, to help me become a better person, and to prepare me for what's ahead.
Esther was a part of that divine tutelage, and it was as if she had come to my life for this one moment--this one vital step of my own spiritual evolution.
Michael Keddington took care of his ill mother for most of his life.
While Faye does not question the love she has for Michael, she does wonder if her Father will ever accept Michael as a man that can take care of her like he can.
In the midst of all the drama and chaos, love is the only thing that will keep Michael sane from all the cares in his life.This is by far the best novel I have read all year.
Loved the message that sometimes relationships are best forged through hard times together instead of once your life is in order.
"I see couples who have built their lives together, struggling through the hard times.
I don't want some by-the-book life with neatly penned entrances like it were a Broadway production.
I want to live it.
It's in the hard times that the greater virtues of love reveal themselves, like tolerance and patience and kindness." (pg.
Loved the discussion on forgiveness.
We are chained to that which we do not forgive...Imagine a ship trying to set sail while towing an anchor.
I found another compelling well written story. I felt very invested in the characters with a layered plot. My emotional response to elements of this book was very ontense. I fully endorse Richard Paul Evans. This ismy 7th book and he has really moved me with every one.
When Michael is falsely accused of abusing one of the Arcadia's residents, he learns important lessons about faith and forgiveness from Ester -- and her gift to him of a locket, once symbolic of one person's missed opportuninites, becomes another's second chance.
Esther, Michael and Faye each touched my heart in a different way.
Michael had an inbred strength that developed from all the roughness of his childhood and youth yet was still a gentle, caring young man who realized the value of the most important thing he had - his name.
An excellent book.
This is the 15th book by Richard Paul Evans that I have read in the past year.
He did an excellent job of portraying Michael Keddington's character and personality.
Esther lost her second chance in life but helped Michael get his.
There are allusions that maybe even Esther got another chance after this life.
Faye is a real darling.
Faye's father is a beast.
This was another good novel by Mr. Evans.
The part on forgiveness that it is for the one forgiving not the person being forgiven.
Good book. I like reading his stuff.
READ IT READ IT EVERYBODY READ IT
There is an alcoholic dead father in his past and he is now travelling on the road to begin the rest of his life.Saddled with a pile of debt from his mother’s medical bills and the fact that he had not been able to work for six months, he takes a job at the Arcadia Nursing Home.
She ultimately shares the story of her past and a love she lost and regretted the rest of her life.When he was working as a stock boy in a grocery store, Michael met Faye, a girl from an affluent background, very different from his own.
This book has been on my bookshelf since I lived in Des Moines (I must have purchased it between 1998-2000), but I have no recollection buying it.
I thought it would be an overly sentimental sappy chick lit book and have avoided reading it.
Michael finds employment at the local nursing home where he befriends Esther, a reclusive but beautiful elderly woman.
When Michael is falsely accused of abusing one of the nursing home residents, he learns important lessons about faith and forgiveness from Esther.
I thought the story about the locket and second chances was very poignant.
Richard Paul Evans never fails to disappoint!
He says all of his books are love stories, but I found the most heart-warming parts of this book to be the love story between Michael and Esther, an elderly resident of the nursing home where Michael works.
If this book doesn't convince one to respect the elderly for the wisdom they can offer, I think nothing will.Another aspect I enjoyed were the little blurbs from "Esther's diary".
I am amazed that Evans could come up with so many little pieces of wisdom to open each chapter.
I typically pick more uplifting books than this.
Evans is a discriptive author and does a nice job of pulling one into the story and making the emotions of the characters come alive.
There is mention of God, which is always refreshing in a novel not marketed as Christian fiction (I assume Evans is Mormon because of where he lives, but it was not apparent by his writings).
I noticed that his best known work is the Christmas Box, which I believe I will have to pick up after finishing this moving story.
The Locket is about a young man, Michael, who has spent the last several years caring for his mother until her death.
His girlfriend's father thinks he is white trash, so we see an event that shows what Michael is made of.Evans has a very readable formula for writing.
You immediately get engrossed in his characters and he writes with a strong emotional edge.
I like the detailed descriptions and the way he explains an important backstory without bogging down.When I want something quick and engrossing to read it's nice to be able to curl up with a Richard Paul Evans book.
I loved this story.
First of all, I found myself stopping almost every other page to jot down quotes I want to share, which is a great sign of a beautiful story.
Secondly, in addition to being a well thought out set of parallel love stories, there is still an unexpected conflict halfway through.
This review will state I finished the book over the course of three days, but I read the first 25% slowly and finished off the remaining 75% in one night.
I cried for the final two chapters and finished this story saying "But, I want more..." and then pleasantry remembered that there is more to this story!
After the death of his mother, Michael finds work at a senior home. He did not have the best upbringing but has fallen in love with a rich guy's daughter. Michael is accused of beating one of the residents at the home where he works but has also where he befriended an old lady named Esther. Really enjoyed this easy read.
Richard Paul Evans might seem sentimental to some, I view his novels as optimistic, faithful to the good in humankind. This one featured a young man who is falsely accused of a crime against an elderly man he was taking care of in a nursing home. Bittersweet, what the accuser did to hurt a guy who rejected her was just plain sad.
This was an interesting book, and I enjoyed the story up until the end. The last third of the book just didn't seem as well written as the beginning, and the trial was like reading a bad Law & Order transcript.
A bit slow at the beginning as some of his book are..but once I got into it, it was a page turner. Even had me crying which is RARE when reading a book. Really good book!! :)
Why do I always cry when I read his books. Loved this one.
His books always make me cry and this is no acception.
This is a wonderful book, it's a sad, lovely story about second chances and especially forgiveness. This is the first book I've ever read by this author and I will be looking for other books by him.
Read this book in literally two days. Was sobbing at the end. Great book.. very touching and certainly worth the read! If you read Notebook and like it.. give this one a chance.
Oh did I cry....
His books are all page turnovers. They all will keep you up at night not wanting to stop.
Excellent book! I read this in one day.
I loved this book. Made me cry. Very touching.
An easy read. The author can suck you into his story with his eloquent way of writing.
I cried even though I saw the movie!
And I smile through happy tears.
I really liked it alot. It is the type of book that makes you smile and cry all in one. It is really good. i enjoyed it alot.
