https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/484110.Phantom_Lady
”Time he thought, is a greater murderer than any man or woman. Time is the murderer that never gets punished.” Cover of the Centipede Press edition painted by Matt MahurinThe first chapter is titled: The Hundred and Fiftieth Day Before the Execution. These words usher in a black cloud of impending doom. Color fades and is replaced by the shadowy gray scale of the 1940s noir movies. I can feel my nerve endings start to tingle and the piano wire that holds my skeleton together stretches tight. Cor
”Time he thought, is a greater murderer than any man or woman.
Alan Curtis, who died tragically young, played Scott Henderson in the movie.The evening with his wife never happens.
As Lombard and Richman track down each of the witnesses and begin to break down their stories the plot starts to feel like script pages from the movie Angel Heart.
Many of Woolrich’s novels and short stories were turned into films.
Murder, My SweetPhantom LadyLauraChristmas HolidayGaslightMinistry of FearThe LodgerThe Woman in the WIndowExperiment PerilousI read the Centipede Press edition of this book.
Book has the following inscription: "To Barry from Cornell"The book is : Black cloth, green/silver letters/stamp to spine. Book has the following dedication: To Apartment 605, Hotel M- in unmitigated thankfulness (at not being in it any more)
Favorite scenes include a silent confrontation on an elevated train platform and a slightly over-the-top performance by the Latino singer in her boudoir.Since I mentioned the classic noir movie, I should also mention that I actually liked the screen version better than the book for eliminating some of the most difficult to accept premises of the novel (view spoiler)[ like the inexplicable memory lapse of Henderson or the two very convenient suicides of key witnesses; the speed the witnesses were bribed on the very same night; the poor police work that allowed a killer to strike twice more after he was first identified as a suspect.
Entertaining but implausible.
As the days fly by, Henderson reaches out to what few friends he has left to enlist their aid in finding the invisible companion that nobody remembers seeing.
3 starsFYI: On a 5-point scale I assign stars based on my assessment of what the book needs in the way of improvements:*5 Stars – Nothing at all.
A good start would be to change the plot, the character development, the writing style and the ending.
*1 Star - The only thing that would improve this book is a good bonfire.
By chapter five and the Ninety-First day before the execution (and we're still not too far into the novel), it becomes very obvious that what we are looking at here is a virtual race against time -- only some few pages earlier, we were still reading about the "One Hundred and Forty-ninth Day Before the Execution." The tension is set -- time moves faster as the story moves forward, although for the players, things are moving excruciatingly slowly.
Phantom Lady is an interesting and very good read from start to finish.
Ακόμα ένα εξαίρετο Noir, από έναν μεγάλο συγγραφέα του είδους.
Και εξηγούμαι: Η πλοκή -ως είθισται στα περισσότερα Noir- δεν είναι το μεγάλο πλεονέκτημα του βιβλίου.
Προφανώς αυτό αποτελεί μειονέκτημα για το κοινό που αναζητά αστυνομικά αναγνώσματα με στιβαρή και "αεροστεγή" πλοκή, όπου ο ήρωας (μέσω του συγγραφέα) κινεί στρατηγικά τις ψηφίδες με μέτρο και περίσσεια λογικής.
Συγγνωστό το… αδίκημα, διότι αυτό δεν είναι το Noir.
Εν προκειμένω τώρα, το "Φάντομ Λέιντι" είναι ένα εξαίρετο στυλιστικά κείμενο, με λεπτοδουλεμένη γλώσσα, η οποία είναι απολαυστική.
Και τέλος, τι να πω για το 1ο κεφάλαιο… ένα από τα πιο καλογραμμένα που έχω διαβάσει εσχάτως!
Well-written, fast-paced mystery about a man falsely accused of killing his wife.
Sentenced to be executed, he gets help from a police detective (who thinks he's innocent) to find his only alibi that'll save his life.
And that is the "phantom lady" he met at a bar at the time his wife was murdered.
That's easier said than done, however, and requires the additional assistance of a friend and a would-be girlfriend to search for this mystery woman.
Many obstacles are encountered, as the day of his execution gets closer and closer.
Will they find her in time?
Above all things, I think Phantom Lady is an effective mystery in that it excels in holding us in suspense for the majority of the plot.
As we get further into the case, and as Henderson awaits the days until his execution, Woolrich pushes us closer with hints and clues, careful not to reveal too much.
Phantom Lady is my first read from Cornell Woolrich, and it won’t be my last.
If there is one knock on Phantom Lady, it is the meticulously detail by detail explanation in the conclusion (after the final big reveal).
Other than that, I was very impressed with Phantom Lady, and looking forwards to more reads from Woolrich.
Ίσως, το κλασικότερο αστυνομικό μυθιστόρημα με στοιχεία ψυχολογικού θρίλερ του Γούλριτς, το οποίο έγινε καί κινηματογραφική ταινία. Η υπόθεση παρουσιάζει αρκετό ενδιαφέρον, ωστόσο, τα περιττα σχόλια και οι επαναλαμβανόμενες περιγραφές αποπροσανατολίζουν τον αναγνώστη, ενώ η πλοκή δεν έχει σταθερή ροή και ιδιαίτερη ουσία. Η αξία του μυθιστορήματος εντοπίζεται στις τελευταίες 20 σελίδες, όπου διαλευκάνεται το μυστήριο. Ένα μυθιστόρημα που, ενδεχομένως, διχάζει!Βαθμολογία: 3,4/5 ή 6,8/10.
My copy of this is in an old book I found called The Best of William Irish - this was a pen name he had in the 40s, maybe because he produced so much (like Richard Bachman?).
Phantom Lady was pretty good.
Amazing suspense, of course, with a strong plot twist at the end.
I love Woolrich like no other, but actually I often find him boring about half the time.
Only, when he is good - isolated lines even - he is phenomenally astounding.
They call him the father of noir, and I can see this, but it's not why I love him.
Such is the life of Scott Henderson, condemned to die for a crime he didn’t commit, a man without hope save for his best friend, one curious detective, and the woman who’d do anything to save him.
All that’s left to find is this phantom lady, a wisp in Henderson’s memory: a woman nobody knows and nobody saw, whose only defining feature Henderson can remember is her striking orange hat…In the pantheon of noir authors, Woolrich stands as another underrated master.
(I set the book down at that point and it languished and gathered much dust on the nightstand as I read any number of other novels, tried twice(!) to jump-start myself into it's story again, failing to keep momentum/interest either time, until finally gathering my fed-up-looking-at-your-cover-and-feeling-incompleteness into a tightly wound ball this afternoon, I unraveled it's energy on the last 100 pages.
Instead of running over the events and characters of a single evening three times at various speeds, each losing the reader's interest more and more, bit-by-bit, annoyance by annoyance, repetition by repetition, somehow, through the magic of narrative form (and perhaps some heavy cutting--300 pages, really?), someone needs to save this story and these characters from this botched novel.
Not as good as some of Cornell Woolrich's other novels but still well above the herd. Typically outrageous plot that we actually don't care much about as long as it carries the suspense. Woolrich supplies the usual twist and doesn't telegraph it too early. Full of metaphor and simile like all good noir books are (that's one of the reasons we like them).A good read.
Πραγματική ατμόσφαιρα νουάρ όπως στις ασπρόμαυρες ταινίες που έβαζαν παλιά τα κανάλια. Επίσης το φινάλε είναι ενδιαφέρον.
This was my first Woolrich read, so I don't know if this is one of his best or average works. But, with noir more or less meaning, black, dark or gloomy...this one definitely fits in the noir genre. With an anxiety level, and the feeling of being in the dark or in a shadow, even when you know it's midday, really gives the reader that gloomy feeling. Great noir prose and the characters of despair, no wonder he can be mentioned in the same breath as - Cain, Chandler, Goodis, Thompson and others. 4.5 stars
The kind of suspenser Cornell Woolrich excelled at, a woman's race against the electric chair to clear her boss' name for a murder he didn't commit. Many of his books used the format of the black widow drawing up a list of men she has to confront, just like in "The Bride Wore Black" and "Rendezvous In Black".Woolrich had excellent touch of suspense in his novels (he wrote "Rear Window" among others). If you can catch the movie starring Ella Raines on TCM don't miss it!
Nifty little puzzle mystery from the 40s that fairly drips with noir-pulp prose. The puzzle, when it is finally solved at (literally) the last minute, is blatantly ludicrous, and thus not entirely satisfying from a logic perspective, but fun nonetheless.
What a frustrating author! I love Woolrich's descriptions. The plotting and snappy dialogue were...painful.I still feel like this author could write something I would truly love, but the two books of his I've read are the only two available through my library system, and neither convinced me that a third would be worth the money. Oh well. If it's meant to be, it will turn up in a thrift store.
幻影女子-康乃爾．伍立奇。她的模樣令人吃驚，是驚艷，不是驚嚇。她的衣著則低調不搶色，靜默的黑，在那如發光燈塔的帽子下顯得黯淡。或許這帶有一種解放的意味。或許她要傳達的訊息是:「當我戴上這頂帽子，你們就給我注意了! 我沒有極限! 」 -<刑前第150天 傍晚六點>幻影女子並非本格派的作品。它的寫作手法就算以現在的眼光來看，還是相當新穎的。隨著一頁一頁的翻閱，主角史考特．韓德森的死刑也一天一天逼近，讓讀者不自覺地緊張了起來。不過每當看到這種電子世代之前的作品，總有種惆悵的感覺XD 這精妙絕倫的劇情，就這樣被淹沒在充斥手機、監視器和電腦系統的時代裡了。然而，懷舊一下也無妨，畢竟經典作品必有它的妙趣之處。這也是為什麼福爾摩斯和白羅永不殞落的原因吧。
Al principio es muy atrapante. Sin embargo, un poco predecible el asesino.
A man goes out frustrated not succeeding in getting a divorce from his wife and meets a mysterious woman in a bar.
They have dinner,watch a movie and the guy returns home without knowing any information about the woman he spent some time with.
After he returns home,he finds his wife strangled to death with his own tie and the blame's put on him.
He's sentenced to death and his lover and his best friend decide to help him solve the mystery.
What's the secret of the mysterious woman in the hat?To know that,you have to read the book.The plot was great.
Decent suspense race-against-the-clock story in which the chapter headings clue the reader in from the start that someone is going to face execution - they all start with titles such as 'Day One Hundred and Fifty Before the Execution' and countdown as each goes by.Henderson, a man who has fallen in love with Carol, is being denied a divorce by his manipulative wife and leaves their apartment after a blazing row, vowing he would invite the first stranger he meets to share the dinner reservation and theatre tickets bought for himself and his wife (Carol had suggested he try having a nice evening out with his wife and talk to her calmly in an adult manner to persuade her, as she has already refused him a divorce previously).
So, I see. The guy. The trick with the. But didn't he. How come she.
One of my favorite Woolrich mysteries.
Love this classic story. Great suspense. Well done characters. Plenty of twists to keep you guessing.
Autor se sice provinil proti známému Desateru pátera Knoxe, ale možná právě proto byla kniha tak napínavá. Budiž mu prominuto :-)
Not sure why is it called 'black novel'?
I had great difficulty visualizing the descriptions until the final two chapters. One of the few times when I would enjoy the movie more than the book
Marvelous, with a great twist.
Ο Χέντερσον δεν σκότωσε την γυναίκα του, μιας και την ώρα του θανάτου της βρισκόταν έξω με μια άγνωστη κοπέλα που γνώρισε τυχαία.
Το θέμα είναι ότι δεν έμαθε ποτέ το όνομά της κοπέλα αυτής, δεν θυμάται και πολλά από την φυσιογνωμία της και όσοι τον είδαν εκείνο το βράδυ (σε εστιατόριο, θέατρο και μπαρ) θυμούνται τον ίδιο αλλά όχι την συνοδό του!
Οι χαρακτήρες βέβαια μου φάνηκαν κάπως επίπεδοι και κάποια γεγονότα ήταν κάπως τραβηγμένα, αλλά δεν έχει και τόση σημασία, η ιστορία είχε σασπένς και αγωνία μέχρι το τέλος οπότε χαλάλι οι όποιες ατέλειες.
