https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/258945.Gigi
I'd like him to give me some sugar, if you know what I mean.No, shut up, I have the best worst news ever.
So apparently the mom and the aunt have been training this girl to be a courtesan for Gaston--How sweet.
Huh. That is like the opposite of "why buy the cow when you can get the milk for free."So now Gaston Lachaille is marrying the girl who was supposed to be his mistress.
Me and the other girls have a betting pool going - I've given them six months.Is that the best part?No, this is: guess how old she is?Oh Jesus.
"Colette é de cair de cu." António Lobo Antunes Lobo Antunes como romancista tem um estilo tão enredado que me parte a cabeça; como homem "comum" é de uma simplicidade que me encanta e subjuga. Aquela frase, tão expressiva embora pouco literária, foi como um rastilho que me atirou para os montes de livros à procura da minha Gigi, o qual comprei por achar curioso ter tradução de José Saramago, mas que arrumei e esqueci.Os três contos (diria pequenos romances) incluídos nesta edição são um primor
Aquela frase, tão expressiva embora pouco literária, foi como um rastilho que me atirou para os montes de livros à procura da minha Gigi, o qual comprei por achar curioso ter tradução de José Saramago, mas que arrumei e esqueci.Os três contos (diria pequenos romances) incluídos nesta edição são um primor; pela beleza da escrita; pelas histórias representativas da sociedade parisiense da época; pelos temas universais (o amor e a morte); pela estrutura da narrativa que evolui, em crescendo, até um final inesperado.
I hate to call this “cute”, but it is a rather charming story. And ah the lovely writing. Such a delight, dear Colette.
A lovely novella written by Colette.The book tells the funny story of a teenager who lives with her Grandmamma and Aunt Alicia.
And then Gaston comes up: is she going to marry him or not?A movie Gigi (1958) was made based on this book.
Directed by Vincent Minelli.According to Wiki Colette is directly credited with the discovery of a young, unknown Audrey Hepburn, whom the elder chose on sight to play the eponymous Broadway lead in Gigi.There will be a new production of the play Gigi on Broadway 2015.3* The Innocent Libertine4* GigiTR The CatTR Claudine's HouseTR The Last CheriTR The Vagabond
Adorable ingénue meets eligible sugar millionaire...This story has been told so many times before, in different times, and in different registers from Pride and Prejudice and Jane Eyre to Georgette Heyer and, er, 50 Shades of Grey - but this has to be one of my favourites.Set in 1899 in the Parisian démi-monde, Gilberte (Gigi) is almost 16: all unwitting charm and raw beauty, she is totally unselfconscious as she romps with Gaston Lachaille, 33 year old friend of the family - and the most eligible, rich and sought-after bachelor in town...This is perhaps one of Colette's most perfect stories.
Short and sweet, Gigi offers a glimpse into the decadence of fin-de-siecle Paris, the scandals, the life and morals of women who lived their lives as celebrated, high-class courtesans - mistresses to important men, celebrities of gossip magazines, recipients of fabulous jewels. Gigi, a young innocent girl is groomed for such life - but she recoils from it. But all is well when it ends well.
Kind of a like Proust, if Proust had been into satisfying men..., oh wait, that might not do.
Kind of like Proust if you were finding out how Albertine was being groomed to be the way she was, well not all the ways she is, but the ways she is when she's around Marcel.
I really liked this, there is something nice about turn of the century-ish era French society things.
She comes from generations of courtesans, with their own moral system and rules, of which Gigi must learn in her lessons with her Aunt Alicia.
The hypocricy and silliness of these lessons is not lost on Gigi, and her greatest joy is childishly teasing Gaston, a family friend who often pays a call on her grandmother.
She becomes wiser when she realizes that the artifices taught by her Aunt Alicia repulse Gaston, and resolves to love him as she is.
Gigi is his anchor in a duplicitous world, and he learns he cannot turn her into just another one of his lovers.
Although I recognize this is beautifully written and a great depiction of an odd society from a (not so) ancient time, I was very surprised to discover the general acknowledgement of this novel as a "love story". A 15 yo girl is to marry her 33 yo "uncle"...and the back cover says "Colettes happiest novel", leading to both a romantic movie and musical. I hope the true meaning of the story is a bit more sarcastic...
I loved the following passage, where her tante Alicia, a great courtesan herself in her day, is evaluating Gigi's chances with her usual objectivity:- Fais attention à ce que je te dis : tu peux plaire.
mais tu as de quoi t'en tirer avec les yeux, les cils, les dents et les cheveux, si tu n'es pas complètement idiote.
Et pour le corps...Elle coiffa de ses paumes en conque la gorge de Gigi et sourit :- Projet...
Mais joli projet, bien attaché.
Ne mange pas trop d'amandes, ça alourdit les seins.I've never read anywhere else that eating almonds can have this effect.
However, 15 year old Gigi was perfectly charming in her ways and I think it's kind of wonderful how Colette could inculcate such humour while still trying to create a vital story with a character individualistically independent of all that was conventional and prudish at that time.
The only problem I have with this book and the author is that it was so particularly short that it couldn't spare time for the story to grow or rather, develop smoothly.
I of course won't call it cute as it won't be fair, but it was surely an endearing read.
It's amazing that they made such a fabulous musical from this book! It was a quick read and a nice collector's item. I would read it again.
O conto que dá o título ao livro, Gigi, é verdadeiramente delicioso, cativante, com uma bela descriç
Being very familiar with the musical based on this short story, I was curious to see what the original was like.
I was surprised by how closely the film followed the text, at times down to the very dialogue.
I liked the written version very much.
The overall message of the story is so beautiful and I appreciated the complex relationships it manages to present in so few pages, but I slightly prefer the musical version, as it draws out the themes a bit more fully and, of course, complements those themes with some great songs!
What a lovely story, but not for the reason so many people seem to latch onto. I don't agree that this one has a happy ending, particularly (SPOILER) given Colette's own views on marriage. Honestly, I'd be disappointed if the ending were cut and dried and cute (like the musical adaptation) and not a tad bit ambiguous. The characters are so delicately observed, and the details take you directly to a bygone Paris, where the last of the courtesans try to make sense of the changing world. Sweet and sad, and of course wonderful writing.
Pour moi Colette, c'était la femme canaille du début du siècle, une gouailleuse romanesque qui ne s'en laissait pas compter, une femme multi talents, célèbre pour avoir piétiné beaucoup de conventions de son époque sans s'excuser d'être ce qu'elle est.La Colette femme de lettres m'intriguait, elle devait être rigolote et pittoresque, un peu frivole et attachante.
Un petit tour plus tard sur wikipédia m'a fait réaliser que j'avais une image très lacunaire de cette grande femme, qu'elle a été reconnue à la hauteur de son talent, en devenant membre puis présidente de l'Académie Goncourt.Gigi n'est pas un roman, à mon grand désarroi.
Una novela corta y entretenida que describe perfectamente una época, en 1889 en Paris.Agradable de leer, muestran como preparan a Gigi, para “ubicarla” socialmente.Corto y dulce, Gigi ofrece una visión de la decadencia del fin de siglo en París, los escándalos, la vida y la moral de las mujeres que vivieron como cortesanas de primera clase: amantes de hombres importantes, celebridades de revistas de chismes, Destinatarios de fabulosas joyas.
Gigi, una niña inocente, y la tía y abuela la están preparando para tal vida, ¿Qué hará Gigi?
Había visto ya la película que es de género musical, también bueno para ver.
Je n'ai pas beaucoup aimé ce texte...je n'ai trouvé ni Gigi ni les autres personnages d'être les personnages sympas. L'oncle me perturbe. Le cadre de ce romain, c'est ce que j'ai adoré! Si vous aimez la culture française, et particulièrement celle de cette époque, ce petit romain mérite une lecture, mais féministes: attention! Ne lisez pas cette histoire en tenant l'espoir qu'elle engendrera une catharsis qui réchauffe le coeur...
This is an intimate study of the training of a young woman to be a mistress in 1899 Paris. The movie Gigi captures nearly all of the dialogue, and adds some scenes from Gaston's perspective, as well as that of his uncle. I really enjoyed the story, but was glad that I have seen the movie because it made it much easier to picture the scenes described, as it was truly a different world.
Timeless. That is this book. I recently told my younger sister to read this book to understand the who, and whys in life. Did she want to be the courtesan or the wifey. I think young ladies should read this book so they can identify what role they want to play in their long term relationships. I know it is a stretch but when applied to modern living this book is timeless.
Ho comprato questo libricino perché conosco a memoria lo spettacolo teatrale, che adoro. Alla fine non mi ha dato molto di più di quanto viene raccontato nello spettacolo. Comunque la scrittura risulta piacevole.
This is such a short tale—barely long enough to be called a novella—that Alan Jay Lerner and Frederick Loewe obviously called on a lot of their considerable creativity to flesh it out into a full-length musical play.
All are determined to groom Gigi not for a simple, suitable marriage, but, rather into becoming what they were years earlier, an exceptional femme entretenue (a kept woman).
Gaston Lachaille, about age 33, is a longtime family friend and a well-known playboy whose love exploits are regularly chronicled in the gossipy newspapers of the day.
Again, this is a very short work.
Nice introduction to the work of Colette. There's a big budget film coming out later this year (2018) which looks good and I realized I'd never read anything by her. The 1958 film Gigi is one of the most beautiful ever made - it elaborates on what is on the page. I think I'll attempt Chéri next....well, after another Miss. Marple mystery.
This story is not really original, but I enjoyed it for the quick peak at life and social constructs of Paris at the turn of the century. Loved the way Gigi held her ground at the age of 16, and thought out what marriage to a 36 year old millionaire playboy really meant for her happiness. The ending was a little abrupt, but I’m glad she decided things on her own terms. “In fact, I’d rather be miserable with you than without you.” That’s pretty smart for a “scatter brained, backwards girl.”
Precioso. Inolvidable.Inolvidable la frase de Gigi: "Prefiero ser desgraciada contigo, que desgraciada sin ti". Taaan bonito.Ojalá pudiera encontrarlo, me encantaría releerlo otra vez (lo habré hecho unas 5 veces).
A brief novella, I read this after having been disappointed by the musical with Leslie Caron. The story is so much better. I wish I had seen the stage play, too. Audrey Hepburn must have been enchanting in the titular role.
Frivolous short story but probably better in French
great short story
Gigi is one of my favorite musicals and the short story is very much like the movie. Minus the singing, of course. 3 1/2 stars
3.5 ☆
