https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8252.Farmer_Boy
Are you hungry yet?Much of Laura's childhood was spent in near-starvation. While they always had something to eat, it was never enough for the family to be satisfied.Thus when Laura wrote about Almanzo (her future husband)'s childhood, she focused on the most idyllic parts and what she wanted for her own childhood and her child - which was a full stomach and stable home.  Almanzo simply ate. He ate ham and chicken and turkey, and dressing and cranberry jelly; he ate potatoes and gravy, succotas
While they always had something to eat, it was never enough for the family to be satisfied.Thus when Laura wrote about Almanzo (her future husband)'s childhood, she focused on the most idyllic parts and what she wanted for her own childhood and her child - which was a full stomach and stable home.
I swear, my stomach rumbled every ten minutes!After a book of this, I began searching for a cookbook (and luckily, there are books aplenty based on this series: The Little House Cookbook, My Little House Cookbook - which I cannot wait to try)Now, the entire plot of Farmer Boy did not solely revolve around food - we also get a look into farm life from the perspective of a wealthy farmer.
My annual re-read, this time with Heidi! :)My favorite of the Little House books from start to finish, but especially the chapter where Ma and Pa go away for a week and the house falls into disarray as the children eat cake, slice watermelon, blacken the parlor wall, and most importantly, use up all the sugar making ice cream. Still no other author has ever captured the life of pioneers in quite this way, and the good eats will make your mouth water!
I loved all the Laura Ingalls Wilder books, in particular "Little House in the Big Woods", "Little Town on the Prairie" and "These Happy Golden Years".
There are several reasons why I love this book more than the others:1) Almanzo and his family are loaded.
They run a much bigger farm than she does and the father is something of a gentleman farmer, not like the wild Charles who is all over the place and doesn't know what he's doing (let's be honest a lot of the books are based around the fact that Charles is a moron--first they leave the big woods, where the rest of their family is.
SO MUCH WORK! And they all seem to enjoy it, even create MORE work for themselves instead of looking for opportunities to have some leisure time (or a nap at least). I would have never made it in those olden days. I am just too lazy.
Listened to  of this in January, and now, two months later, finished it today, also in the car. And pretty much loved it. This is not about Laura's family, though it’s technically listed #3 IN the Little House on the Prairie series. It functions as a kind of contrast in that it is a wealthier farm life experience in New England vs. the Midwestern farm life Laura lived, seemingly near starvation. This book is about her future' husband Almanzo Wilder's family. As with Laura’s family, she describes
the Midwestern farm life Laura lived, seemingly near starvation.
As with Laura’s family, she describes with practically ethnographic detail what nineteenth-century American farm life was like: Gathering potatoes, cutting up ice, making and selling butter.
Kids work on these farms, they learn how to do things, they develop humane relationships with animals (and each other).
But Laura one year gets a PENNY for Christmas; Almanzo gets, in addition to a lot of other things, a KNIFE!?The food they grow and eat is also a contrast to Laura’s farm life, with sumptuous and meticulously described meals, like a certain ham dinner.
Much wailing and gnashing of teeth this morning as we finished Farmer Boy. My student could not believe it was over! Going to be hard to top this one in the coming months. Not sure how many times I have read this but I am thinking five. I believe after Little House in the Big Woods, it is the best book in the Little House series. Goodbye, Almanzo. Not sure when we will meet again.
Upon finishing Little House on the Prairie the kids and I were dying to know where the Ingalls' adventures would take them next but discovered that the next in the series focuses on Almanzo Wilder, Laura's future husband.
We were immediately taken in by the descriptions of late 1800's farm life in upper New York State.
We were struck in particular by the richness Almanzo's family enjoyed in comparison with the Ingalls who seemed to be moving all the time.
One of my favorite features of this book is the lengthy descriptions of Almanzo's mother's cooking.
Hold on:Me: Eleanor, what does it mean to "speak when spoken to?"E: It means, "BE QUIET UNTIL YOU ARE SPOKEN TO!!!"Me: Do you think we should make that a rule in our house?E: What if I need dessert?Me: Well, you couldn't ask for it.
I've got one more story to tell about her before I let her write her part of the review.Here's what I wrote down when it happened:It is shocking, SHOCKING how much Eleanor remembers.
She asked how many chapters Eleanor remembered, and I said, "I don't know." So I asked her.
This one and Little House on the Prairie will forever be some of my favorite childhood stories. It tells of such a realistic story, but with such a beautifully innocent touch that I think really complemented the setting and made the story unforgettable.
All unique personalities, not repeats of previous characters, and I especially enjoyed the family dynamic.Content:Swearing: On rare occasion it's said someone swore, but the word is not written out.Violence: The older boys at the schoolhouse are said to have beaten up and run off every teacher that tried to punish them for their misbehavior.
However, the teacher gets creative and (view spoiler)[ uses a borrowed bullwhip  (hide spoiler)] to defend himself and run the bad boys off when they try to attack him.Other: When Almanzo's parents go away from home for a week, the kids get into a little mischief, mainly eating too much sugar and not doing their chores.
I still didn't love it as well the first few books about Laura's childhood, perhaps because I know and love the Little House stories so well from my own childhood (I know my mom read me "Farmer Boy" but I don't really remember it).
That said, I did quite enjoy and appreciate Almanzo's story this time and feel Laura deftly articulated his conundrums being on the cusp of boyhood and young-manhood, both his eagerness to do the more adult work on the farm with his father and older brother as well as the angst of having independent thoughts and wishes but not being able to express them most of the time.
Lovely. I don’t remember reading this one as a kid. I think I skipped it because it was about a boy. Silly young Kate. It was wonderful, because of course it was...
I liked this way more than I thought I would.
3. Almanzo's family is way richer than Laura's, but they also seem to work more.
And when Almanzo asks for a dime, he gets a half dollar, then is made to feel guilty about it by his dad.
The things said about Natives in this book are cringeworthy, as are the depictions and the fact that Almanzo and his friends "play Indian." And on the sexism angle, boys are allowed to talk quietly on Sundays but girls are not allowed to talk.
This one makes me think my kids don't do enough chores around the house!My review:  Farmer Boy by Laura Ingalls Wilder .And another review: Farmer Boy by Laura Ingalls Wilder.
This was book 6 in the box set I got as a kid (I only made it through five) but was published second and then ordered third with a new edition.This one was enjoyable because there were more stories than the first couple Little House books: going to school, parents leaving on vacation for a week, county fair.
It follows Almanzo Wilder for a little over a year, when he’s 9, living in upstate New York on his family’s rather prosperous farm.I can’t imagine trying to navigate a farm wearing a hoop skirt (the girls, not Almanzo).
I loved these farm stories told from 9-year-old Almanzo's point of view.
I don't think I read this book when I was young, but it was delightful to read it as an adult.My father grew up on a farm, and I inherited his pride in what farmers have accomplished.
I liked this quote, spoken by Almanzo's father:"A farmer depends on himself, and the land and the weather.
If you're a farmer, you raise what you eat, you raise what you wear, and you keep warm with wood out of your own timber.
I don't think I ever read Farmer Boy when I was young, only the books starring Laura.
I am grateful for the grocery store, but these books make me wish for the skills (and time) to grow and raise more of my own food and cook such delicious meals.
I love how every chapter reads like a complete story.
As usual, as I finish a Laura Ingalls Wilder book, I'm wishing for some of the simple things (manners, respect, work ethic, independence, gratitude) that have been lost in our day.
You know, I think I enjoyed this book even more than the first two.
Almanzo’s life is far different from Laura’s.
Almanzo loves life on the farm more than anything; he goes about his chores as if they’re his passion, because he hopes that they’re paving the way for him to follow in his Father’s footsteps.As with the two preceding novels, this book contained more description of life on the farm than it did plot or characterization.
I don’t think these books would’ve been nearly as successful without this level of description.
When someone picks up a book in the Little House series, they want to be transported back in time and experience life on the prairie or in the Big Woods or on a farm.
Continuing my re-read of the Little House books, I was shocked to discover that my copy of this one is also sans cover, as I really didn't have a memory of much that happened. I remembered Star and Bright, and Manley's siblings, but that was about it. It makes an interesting contrast between his upbringing and Laura's much poorer and much more Puritan background.It's also a good reminder of how much hard farm work will allow you to eat :) I also appreciated that he wasn't good, good, good, and had a mischievous streak that his parents appreciated.
Wow....they ate so much! I'm pretty sure that there was pie at every meal. Really this book centers on food - growing it, raising it, harvesting it, preparing it, and eating it. Boy do I take a lot for granted! I loved the look at a prosperous farm - from the filling the ice house to eating the pie :)
Its been a stressful week in my real life. It has been impossible to actually concentrate on books. So this afternoon I picked up a childhood favorite and escaped into the past. This book is sweet, funny and well-written. I enjoyed the temporary escape from reality.
#lerlauraingallswilder #projetoumacasanapradaria ❤️
This is my favorite of the Little House series so far.
Reread aloud to kids for the umpteenth time in 34 years. Still good.
I really enjoyed this one, especially all of the descriptions of the food!
এটা ওর খেলা। অনযের খেলায় কখনও নিজের টাকা বাজি ধরতে নেই।ভীষণ মিষটি, ভীষণ সুসবাদু--বই, অনুবাদ দুটোই। দবিতীয় পাঠেও পরথম পাঠের আবেদন একটুও মলিন হয়নি।
এটা ওর খেলা। অন্যের খেলায় কখনও নিজের টাকা বাজি ধরতে নেই।ভীষণ মিষ্টি, ভীষণ সুস্বাদু--বই, অনুবাদ দুটোই। দ্বিতীয় পাঠেও প্রথম পাঠের আবেদন একটুও মলিন হয়নি।
In Farmer Boy, he is 9/10 years old and works on his family farm in upstate New York.
He raises and sells colts ($200 each which was a fortune in that time.) Mrs. Wilder sells her butter, they bale their surplus hay for a profit, etc.
The entire family works hard from morning to night - running a farm isn't easy.
As a parent, you've worked hard your entire life to build a successful farm and then you may have to face the reality that none of your children want to walk in your footsteps.) Fortunately for everyone, Almanzo is a farmer boy at heart.
Full review at Smoke & Mirrors: http://books-n-music.blogspot.com/201....
And I was rather happy for his parents when he informed them he wished to keep on farming.
Although I believe that we, as parents, have no right to try to decide upon a career, etc., for our children, nonetheless, it was obviously a relief for them to know that at least for now, they had one child who intended to remain in farming.
Though it is tough for ANY small business endeavor to be successful in this day and age.
Tough to clear enough profit to support a family.
Can't wait to post a review on my blog!
I did not expect to love this book as much as, if not more then (because I have a boy at the right age to enjoy it), Laura's stories.
Laura's family was more soft and close (I don't know how to explain it).
Alamanzo's family had more money and enjoyed being some of the wealthiest and most skilled people among those in their community.
I'm sad to leave the stories of their childhood soon, but excited to see how their story continues as they create a family of their own.Oh, and I'm totally growing a milk pumpkin this year.

