https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23398965-the-secret-place
and now tana french proves that she also has the chops to pull it off.the action of the story takes place in a single day, with alternating chapters coming in-between detailing pertinent events from the past, counting down the time chris harper has left to live, tightening the circle of events as relationships evolve and the girls navigate the new world opening up to them.
it's all secrets and trust and "us against them." and the half-heard song, maddeningly elusive.the best thing about this book is the way the relationship between detectives conway and moran slooooowly grows.
"If I've learned one thing today, it's that teenage girls make Moriarty look like a babe in the woods." Tana French takes on the world of teenage girls. This book was 100% worth waiting for and, though I've loved all of French's mysteries, I think this could actually be my favourite. It was just so wonderful to get back into a book full of great characterisation, intricate relationships, clever red herrings and a writing style that so wholly fits my tastes. French writes the only kind of length
"If I've learned one thing today, it's that teenage girls make Moriarty look like a babe in the woods."
With French's trademark well-developed characterisation that delves deep into the minds of nearly everyone the novel introduces us to, the insane world of teenage girls becomes an intense bubble of hormones and insecurities mixed in with a spot of murder.
Teaming up with Detective Antoinette Conway over in Murder, Moran heads into the world of private school girls and attempts to uncover the truth about what really happened to Chris Harper.
Tana French ALWAYS writes those kind of books, IMO.
It may be that the main character, Detective Stephen Moran, is particularly dull.
Typically, a character like that should be written to evoke some sympathy within me, but I had no emotions towards her except distaste.The portrayal of the teenaged characters in the books were over the top.
Unlike the previous books, the narrative within this one jumped so much, from character to character, from past to present.
It got to the point where I felt like a detective myself just trying to figure out when the narrative was taking place.Oh, well.
“This has nothing to do with what anyone else in all the world would approve or forbid. This is all their own.” Reducing Tana French's books to a simple concept of "murder mysteries" would be like describing Anna Karenina as "that story about the train". I called them "intense psychological f*ckeries" before, and that also is not enough. I just don't know how to express my admiration for her skills in weaving bright and intricate and yet subtle relationship webs based in brilliant clever charac
In The Secret Place - the fifth book of Dublin Murder Squad pseudo-series ('pseudo' because the connections between the books are quite slight, with a supporting character in one of them taking the lead role in the next, allowing you to be able to read them out of order and still understand everything), Tana French brings to focus the world of teenage girls in a Dublin boarding school, St. Kelda's.
Because the world they inhabit is anything but sweet and innocent; it's full of beautiful and fragile and evil things that bubble so close to the surface that they will one day inevitably explode.
And, I wanted to know who the killer was, so I HAD to keep reading.However, "The Secret Place" is NOT as good as 'ALL' other Tana French books.
I managed to enjoy this book *enough* --(in spite of so much tedious teen -adolescent- 'lingo').'Sometimes I felt, Tana French was pretty good giving a voice to the TEEN GIRLS: (their drama-attitudes-and shallow concerns), but right when I thought the author was doing better than MOST adult-writers giving a voice to a teenager--I'd find a line that would just make me cringe!
For example: One of the teen girls says to her friends: "I liked you better before you grew a pair".
Damn, 2014 seems so far away… :( I am pretty excited to hear that we will be seeing Frank again, I love him. Now all I really need is that Tana finally decides to bring back Rob and Cassie (preferably together) so they can make up :).
But I was captivated by the way The Secret Place integrated the turbulent days of youth at a girls’ boarding school with a murder investigation by Dublin’s finest, proving again that French has talent in spades.
This time she’s also nailed the police procedural aspects of the case.The story begins with Holly and her three friends hanging at a playground, musing on the end of summer and their upcoming year together at boarding school.
Moran seizes the opportunity to wedge his foot in the door of the Murder Squad, and personally takes the note to the case’s lead detective, Antoinette Conway.
Perhaps the most challenging Squad case yet presented to readers, French does a brilliant job in drawing out the story and then showing how the murderer came to slay young Chris Harper.
The 'secret' place has many meanings throughout the story, from the literal place that is used by the girls to air their private sentiments to the as yet unattainable Murder Squad job that Moran seeks.
If it has not been clear up to this point of the review, or my sentiments in all books of the series, this is a must-read for anyone who has patience and interest in superior thriller novels.Kudos, Madam French for proving how versatile you are and how the ideas seem never-ending.
She is just that good even when she is writing out a logically fallacious scenario.The teenage girls of 'The Secret Place' are much more than what C-grade teenybopper flicks and stereotype-riddled YA books make them out to be.
In a way, the narrative of friendship and loyalty in the aftermath of a terrible crime is reminiscent of an earlier book in the series - The Likeness - which in turn was inspired by Donna Tartt's The Secret History.
Will this be Moran's big chance at getting on the Murder Squad or will the case tear him apart?The Secret Place is Tana French's fifth entry in the Dublin Murder Squad books and the last to date.
I felt for Conway, too, gunning for her chance to finally prove herself to the guys on the Murder Squad.While Tana French was at the top of her game in a technical sense in this outing, I did not like The Secret Place as much as its fore-bearers.
Somehow, her writing just keeps getting better.Detective Stephan Moran, from Faithful Place, and Holly Mackey, Frank Mackey’s daughter and also from Faithful Place, make this hypnotic and leaves the reader unwilling to put it down.The relentless action begins when the picture of a murdered teenage boy is left on a bulletin board with a writing that declares “I KNOW WHO KILLED HIM”.
The murder the previous year, in an exclusive boarding school environment brimming over with rich kids and mean girls, had been unsolved, so Moran in the cold case division teams up with badass Murder Squad detective Antoinette Conway, for a ONE DAY murder investigation nail biter.French spins this web a little different than the earlier four.
Plot summary In a break from the format of her previous novels, The Secret Place follows the point of view of at least 6 characters with a focus on two major players, Detective Stephan Moran and Holly Mackey, a student a St. Kilda's boarding school and the daughter of Tana's most popular character, Frank Mackey.The story opens with Holly approaching Stephen with a card that indicates that an unknown person knows who killed a young male student on the grounds of the girls boarding school over a year before.
The pair have a good chemistry and it was fun to see them adjust to working together.My minor complaint about the dialogue in this book noted, in the whole genre of murder mysteries, I would rate Tana French as among the best at writing compelling literary thrillers.
I would still highly recommend her Dublin Murder Squad series, but I wouldn't have you start with "The Secret Place." Instead, start with book one, "In the Woods," to see how the series begins.
which I really liked...but sadly no......The Secret Place, 5th in her Dublin Murder Squad Series...was a total not hit but a total MISS...This was a cold case....the Murder Square had not been able to solve the murder of a boy, whose body had been found in the grounds of an all girl's private school.A year later, new evidence comes up in the form of a card with the boy's foto and message "I know who killed him."Detective Stephen Moran from Cold Cases teams up with Dublin Murder Squad's Detective Antoinette Conway to open up the investigation again.Despite me liking Tana French's writing and the two main characters, I just could not get into this book.Slow, tedious and far too many flashbacks....and far too much information and descriptions that felt had no added value to the story.I mentioned before that I liked Detective Stephen Moran and Detective Antoinette Conway...but the rest of the sooooooooo toooooooooo many characters were beyond boring and irritating...
Well, I guessed pretty early on whodunnit (though it wasn't blindingly obvious) there WERE plenty of distractions to divert us along the way, although I got the motive wrong, so not that smart after all eh?
HIM being a teenage boy found dead in the grounds of St Kilda's boarding school for girls, situated in a leafy suburb of Dublin.
There are eight teenage girls in the frame, and any one of the little monsters ( sorry, teens ) could have been responsible for his death.
You've got that right here.
I received a copy of this book from Goodreads-giveaways and I wish I could have given it a better rating alas I was very disappointed.Sadly I only managed to read 160 of the 518 pages in 12 days as I had got to the point that I couldn't bear to pick the book up to continue.I previously read Broken Harbour and really liked it awarding it four stars.In my opinion this novel is tedious, the characters easily forgettable, empty and shallow, hence I do not know who killed him and I don't want to know!
But Holly had a photo to give to Stephen Moran – a photo of Chris Harper who had been murdered at St Kilda, Holly’s school, a year ago – on it was stuck letters which appeared to be cut out from a magazine saying “I KNOW WHO KILLED HIM”; it was a case which hadn’t been solved.
After Holly’s explanation about “The Secret Place”, where students of the girls’ school could post various secrets in an anonymous fashion, Moran headed over to the Murder Squad to find Detective Antoinette Conway who had been in charge of the case twelve months previously.
Worst of all, I keep thinking about all the other books I'd prefer to be reading.
Ok, I think my rant is over.Another case, another murder for the Dublin Murder Squad- this one brings back a few familiar faces with Det. Stephen Moran and Holly Mackey- the spry teenager whose father Frank Mackey was the lead detective in a previous book.
I'm thinking that this author is just not for me.
I honestly stopped caring about who did it halfway through, unfortunately I have a pet peeve about finishing every book I start, so found myself slugging through the end.
[4.5 Stars]
They question several students and we begin to see the differences in high school teenagers: we have the “in crowd” and the “weirdoes.” After a couple hundred pages of questioning these girls and plucking at flimsy evidence, I found myself answering the authors question as to who killed him with: I really don’t care!For a book that is supposed to be full of suspense, seems to have a complete lack of suspense.
I understand that the author has managed to capture the essence of stereotypical teenagers but they're just not worth reading about.
Another enjoyable read from Tana French! The abundance of teenage girl talk was somewhat annoying but overall it was well written story that kept me guessing until the end. Chapters alternate between past (1 year ago) and present, so be aware of that as you're reading as it can be confusing.
“I know who killed him” Tana French is one of those rare writers who transcends genre, and I would hesitate to call The Secret Place simply a “crime novel”. Though much of the plot does center on the solving of a crime, this is more a character study, an exploration of connections and motivations and the fleeting essence of youth. There are hints of magical-realism woven throughout, almost hallucinogenic, and we are never quite certain what is real and what is imagined - or if there is a differ
This is not because The Secret Place is much like those books (though I can imagine a few of French’s teenage characters reading them) but simply because the writing calls out to be shared – I already have my favourite lines scribbled down in a notebook, to be used as extra persuasion for people to read this book as soon as possible.I waited for this book for months – looks like I’ll be waiting just as eagerly for the next book!
In Tana French’s The Secret Place, a year-old unsolved murder on the grounds of a Dublin area girls’ school lands in the lap of a Cold Case detective, Stephen Moran.
Holly Mackey, daughter of Frank Mackey (whom we met in The Likeness and then later in Faithful Place when Moran briefly worked for him) has come to Moran’s office with a card that she says she found on her school’s secret bulletin board that shows a caption: “I KNOW WHO KILLED HIM.” This got Stephen’s attention, and he jumped right over to the Murder Squad, hoping he could tag along and get in on the action.
I love Tana French's writing and upon finishing this one I am a little disappointed that there is a wait for the next book in the series to come out.The Secret Place follows Stephen Moran (someone we have seen before) as he joins forces with the original detective on a case involving a murdered teenager on a Catholic boarding school's grounds.
ahhhhh Frank is back? YES! Love that grouchy detective.
It was with relief that I found that both of her next two novels were strong, and (please excuse my not having the titles memorized, I believe it was Broken Harbor?) the one with the young couple in the subdivision was probably my second favorite after In the Woods (parts of which I still go back and reread at times).Part of French's strength is that she can capture the subtle psychological complexities of the interactions between her characters, and she often tends to focus on crimes that occur to youth, committed by youth, etc, and is able to channel that intensity.
Description: The photo on the card shows a boy who was found murdered, a year ago, on the grounds of a girls’ boarding school in the leafy suburbs of Dublin.
The caption says, I KNOW WHO KILLED HIM.Detective Stephen Moran has been waiting for his chance to get a foot in the door of Dublin’s Murder Squad—and one morning, sixteen-year-old Holly Mackey brings him this photo.
Stephen joins forces with the abrasive Detective Antoinette Conway to find out who and why.But everything they discover leads them back to Holly’s close-knit group of friends and their fierce enemies, a rival clique—and to the tangled web of relationships that bound all the girls to Chris Harper.
I am waiting (very impatiently) for Ms. French's 5th book to come out -- I am dying - waiting for 2014 to come!!
Ms. French, I implore you, can't you please write faster and get this book to be available sometime this year - and while you're at it, could you please begin another book?
My husband, friends, and I have literally devoured your first four wonderful books.
You simply need to clone yourself and get at least a couple of your wonderful books published every year.
PS I have just learned that Ms. French's latest book will not be released until September of this year, 2014.
This was a dry read mostly and didn’t get juicy until Detective Mackey made an appearance.I sort of liked Moran’s flowery thoughts and Conway's edginess.
Moran walked on a tightrope of suspense throughout this entire novel and his ultimate goal of making it onto the Murder squad kept him balancing away for dear life.
I kept bracing for potential pitfalls in each conversation he had with Conway and the author did not disappoint with the final outcome of this story!
Ultimately, it was the last thirty percent of this book that was most enjoyable for me.
One of the detectives on the case, Antoinette Conway, questioned Holly and the rest of the students at St. Kilda's; no one saw anything, no one heard anything and no explanation for Chris Harper being on the girls' campus was ever determined.
And if she'll talk to me, she'll get her mates talking to me." Hearing something in his accent or maybe what he has to say, Conway agrees to let Moran tag along as she returns to St. Kilda's to ask some questions.The novel forks away from Moran & Conway to move back in time to the months and weeks leading up to Chris Harper's murder.
