https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/186749.Innumeracy
Most of the book is a collection of examples commonly seen in other pop math books: how a particular gambling game or con trick lets the house win most of the time; tricky things about Bayes' Theorem and Simpson's Paradox; how raising the price by 40% and then lowering the new price by 40% does not give you back the original price; the difference between statistical correlation and causation; etc.I hoped the book would be an in-depth look at where innumeracy stems from and how to prevent it.
On page 94, Paulos bemoans the fact that people attribute combination to causation: "...when people reason that if X cures Y, then lack of X must cause Y." But just a few pages later, on 108, he states: "In short, there is an obvious connection between innumeracy and the poor mathematical education received by so many people.
He is trying to segue into other reasons for innumeracy, but fumbles, because to make the strongest logical statement, he should have said, "Still, it's not the whole story, since there are many quite numerate people who have had such poor mathematical education."I'm a linguist, not a mathematician, but there is a need for good logic in both fields.
As Mr. Paulos probably would have warned me (>95% chance), I should have trusted the percentage and skipped the book.It's a breezy enough introduction to the problem of innumeracy, but ultimately it has less to do with its subtitle -- Mathematical Illiteracy and its Consequences -- and more to do with Mr. Paulos flaunting his intellectual superiority via a litany of schizoid statistical and probabilistic scenarios.
As is it felt like little more than a talent show.Paulos actually admits that mathematicians have a deserved reputation for arrogance, and also that he was attracted to math mainly because it gave him a way of feeling superior to others (p.
Easy book to read that addresses mathematical illiteracy or "Inumeracy." Paulos offers persuasive arguments for increasing math literacy with fun anecdotes & fascinating statistics.
For instance, I think we can all agree that math education has been biased towards the rote memorization of formulas and terms at the expense of fluency and "playful" exploration of numerical and geometrical concepts.
A little discrete math is all it takes to have a toolset for evaluating all kinds of claims, and the author's analysis of the popular pseudoscientific fads of his day are applicable to all sorts of poppycock that happens now.In the end though, it's hard to say just who this book is for.
The author purports to explain numerical illiteracy ("innumeracy") and the consequences of it.
However, he skates from there to explaining formal logic, probability theory, estimations, critiques of psuedo-science, and then to the reasons why so many people just don't like math.
I wanted to like this book but the opening pages nearly made me quit reading.
The author engaged in dry parlor tricks like estimating the number of grains of sand on earth.
If you, like me, were looking for a book describing how experts manipulate numbers to advance specious public policy, this book isn't for you.
I already believe that numbers are beautiful and just make sense but it's always nice to read a book that agrees with you.
I had never thought of it quite like that.) He also does a great job pointing out the negative impact of innumeracy on society in general - how misunderstandings about things like coincidence and cause and effect can lead to harmful beliefs and behaviors about things like the pseudosciences, gambling, and healthcare.
Overall a very readable book that could have a big impact if only the right people would read it.
Quick, essential reading.While it hasn't completely killed my interest in coincidences, it tried valiantly to do so.
The author's anger at the popularity of pseudosciences (astrology, mediums, fortune-telling, etc.) comes across pretty clearly, and it's hard not to agree with him.
In fact...
it's impossible to disagree with him in certain sections, since he's using cold, hard mathematics.
(He'd hate that I used the adjective 'cold,' there...)I don't have much more to say beyond the fact that this would make worthwhile reading for just about everyone.
Моя 2 книжка на англійській яку прочитав повністю.Вердикт - непогано. Деякі глави були дуже цікавими і змусили здивувати і згадати те, що знав. Інші - не такі цікаві, бо я факти з них знаю, проте написані відмінно. Читається легко. Рекомендується до прочитання всім, особливо тим, хто все життя жаліється на математику.
This book speaks for itself. I mean, people should understand mathematics beyond, like, knowing how many shoes they need for how many feet they have.
Dati statistici sono la base su cui dovremmo compiere molte scelte relative alla nostra salute, l'analisi del rischio ci dovrebbe guidare in piccole decisioni quotidiane e in grandi scelte politiche, la capacità di valutare a occhio gli ordini di grandezza di alcune misure ci permetterebbe di capire al volo perchè alcune idee che sembrano ragionevoli sono gran bischerate.Il cervello umano, se non allenato, fatica a comprendere tutti i fenomeni che riguardano "grandi numeri", cresciuto com'è per inferire informazioni dai pochi casi che può afferrare, e proprio questo, frequentemente, ci porta a ragionamenti pseudologici fallaci.
If part of the book's purpose is to raise the comfort level of the reader with certain concepts, then there are probably too many places where it throws in a formula too quickly, causing less numerate minds to glance away.I do appreciate the author's clear love of math, and there are several good examples.
For example, one of the sections focuses on normal fluctuations, like how one shooter in a basketball game may have a good streak and then a bad streak without either having a lot of significance.
That's true to a point, but there are many factors that can affect that besides normal ups and downs - amount of practice, sore muscles, more aggressive guarding.
Paulos betont, wie wichtig es ist, ein Gefühl für Wahrscheinlichkeiten zu entwickeln, was natürlich nur funktioniert, wenn man sich mit dem Instrumentarium einigermaßen auskennt.
Wenn man davon ausgeht, dass nicht alle Fächer beliebig ausgedehnt werden können und man die Unterrichtszeit für Mathematik beibehielte, könnte man nach meinem Gefühl zum Beispiel bei der Trigonometrie abspecken, die im Grunde nur noch für Designer und Ingenieure relevant ist.
Der Umgang mit Wahrscheinlichkeiten hingegen müsste so früh wie möglich in den Unterricht eingebaut werden, da er dermaßen alltagsrelevant ist und letztlich auch persönlichkeitsprägend.
No está mal para leer si no se tiene mucho que hacer, nada más.Durante todo el libro persiste la sensación de que el autor no pretende llegar a ningún punto en especial.
La exposición es clara, eso sí; pero el hecho de que el libro sea tan generalista y no se profundice en ningún tema, teniendo todo el rato la sensación de que el autor no hace más que divagar, le quita bastante atractivo.
El libro, además, está bastante centrado en la estadística y la probabilidad (y la forma en que nos afectan), lo cual quizás sea porque esa es la especialidad del autor.En resumen, los que busquéis una lectura especializada, tirad por otros lados.
Paulos expounds on mathematical concepts as they relate to everyday life - the true nature of particular risks, gambling chances, and understanding extremely large and small numbers.
There are a lot of mathematical puzzles (always fun) and real-world examples of the (mis)application of seemingly abstract concepts.
There's also some overlap with Thinking, Fast and Slow regarding cognitive blocks to thinking mathematically.But Paulos comes off as a bit disparaging of "innumerates" - this is definitely not a book for them, but more for those in the know to tsk-tsk at the state of mathematical literacy.
That's all well and good, but it can lead to being condescending and dismissive, to grumpy ranting instead of a full and detailed argument.
(In extreme cases it can even lead to intellectual bullying: "I know better than you, you're an idiot, convincing you is not worth my trouble, so I'm just going to bellow a bit".
Thankfully Paulos doesn't go this far, but he does hint in that direction from time to time.)Much of the same territory is covered better, and without the ranting, by Nate Silver in "The Signal and the Noise", and Leonard Mlodinow in "The Drunkards Walk".
Reading Innumeracy is probably most fun for people who already understand 95% of the math Paulos uses. Plus a lot of the examples aren't from current events despite what the back cover says.I bet a lot of his stated intended audience--innumerates--aren't making it past the first chapter, let alone getting all the way to the end. And the book is only 135 pages. But if the reader will stick with it, or maybe skip over sections not understood, it's worth the time spent reading. Hey, it's only 135 pages.
I take his point, as a largely innumerate person, but the book reads as very dated (it is almost 30 years old now) and his arrogant indignation at everyone who isn't a mathematician is off-putting. There are better, kinder math books. Surely.
An accessible, interesting read about the difficulty many people have truly understanding the difference between very large numbers. We have a handle on what a thousand really means, but what is the difference between a billion and a trillion? Do they feel kind of the same to you? If so, this book could potentially blow your mind.
[Update on 9/20/15 Reread: upgrading to five stars and changing "Good" to "Excellent"] Excellent, brief intro to probability, common fallacies of statistical correlation, absurdities of astrology, numerology, and other pseudosciences.
A good refresher.
Math graduates are immediately scooped up by financial institutions, engineering, accounting and other such careers and rarely ever education.Paulos does give the interesting idea of having those retired from those professions possibly providing some classes but in turn, it would require them to return to college for a teaching certificate which most are unwilling to do.There are misconceptions regarding numbers and Mr. Paulos seems to take quite a lot of joy finding the most quirky situations to provide an example.
Enthusiastic people could go into various careers where they may make a difference if only they had that solid mathematical base needed for a few college credits.Look at newspapers and magazines and on-line games where sudoku are offered.
Non stiamo parlando di malattie come la discalculia (l'equivalente della dislessia, se ve lo steste chiedendo) ma proprio dell'incapacità di riuscire a stimare anche solo grossolanamente dei valori; quello che è peggio è che mentre magari qualcuno si vergogna di non essere bravo con le parole e non conoscere i classici della letteratura, è molto più semplice trovare gente che si vanta di essere uno snumerato.
e forse è per questo che non è mai stata messa in pratica.Il libro è scritto bene e la lettura è piacevole, con la parte matematica ridotta al minimo; sarebbe proprio una lettura utile per molti...
La parte mala es que no vale acusar de desinterés por los números a la población mundial y pasarse el libro poniendo de ejemplos de anumérismo el que mucha gente no memorice números que aparecen en noticias/hechos o de problemas que sólo pueden ser resueltos usando métodos de probabilidad avanzada que es parte de las matemáticas avanzadas que sólo estudiamos los que tenemos un nivel de estudios universitario.
se aprovechan de que la teoría y práctica de la probabilidad es desconocida para la gran mayoría de las personas que no son universitarias o que lo son y la han olvidado porque no la usan en su día a día.Aún así, como he escrito al inicio, es un buen libro para recordar temas de probabilidad avanzada.
I have a few relatively minor complaints, which keep it from being 5 stars, but don't keep it from being an amazing, must read book.
My other complaint is that some of his arguments are poorly structured, but I am willing to forgive it because he is not really making any arguments that any reasonable person who would be reading the book would need to be air tight.
They are just examples to carry fairly obvious, unarguable points, so their relevance is more important than their quality.
I read Jordan Ellenberg's How Not to be Wrong: The Power of Mathematical Thinking immediately before reading Innumeracy and there's a fair amount of overlap between the two.
The big difference is that while Innumeracy may have gotten there first, How Not to be Wrong goes into more detail, explains the math much more clearly, and has a writing style that is leaps and bounds better than the one found here.
Plus, How Not to be Wrong also goes into other interesting topics, like the real-world applications of non-Euclidean geometry.
My recommendation: skip this and read Jordan Ellenberg's book instead.
Innumeracy is a book about how to not be ignorant of numbers and math. It focuses on statistics, as they are more prominent in our world than other types of math. The book starts off by explaining what it means to be innumerate. It then goes on to give examples of “innumerates.” Afterwards, it develops the idea of mathematical ignorance, and how it pervades the everyday life of most people. It talks about how people wrongly wear it as a badge of honor. It then goes on to explain how to not be i
Innumeracy is a book about how to not be ignorant of numbers and math.
The book starts off by explaining what it means to be innumerate.
It then goes on to give examples of “innumerates.” Afterwards, it develops the idea of mathematical ignorance, and how it pervades the everyday life of most people.
It then goes on to explain how to not be innumerate, and gives several suggestions.
The word that this book can be described by is innumeracy, and all variations of it.
It explained the math that I needed to understand the concepts in the book.
There are simple examples to explain mathematical concepts (such as the difference between combination and permutation).
There are insightful illustrations of how mathematics can save money (how many tests would you need to run on a room of 50 people to discover the one person with a disease?
How many tests to find out if *anyone* in the room had the disease?
How much weight should you put into getting back a positive reading on a test at the doctor's office?
(it depends on the base rate of that disease in the population).
For that matter, how mathematically literate is your doctor?
One of countless books written for those who struggle dealing with numbers in any form.
What distinguishes this from other such literature is that Paulos attempts top diagnose the root cause.
His assessments are reasonable (taught as an abstract not applicable subject, the teachers don't understand it, kids don't learn it as puzzles), and I've made similar observations over my lifetime.Despite an occasional dose of dated references (gotta do something about that Strategic Defense Initiative) and mild sexism (suggests women avoid chem and econ classes because of math), this is a helpful look into why and how people understand numbers.My takeaway is to return to the fun parts of math that attracted me to the subject in the first place (puzzles and games), and an incentive to explain concepts to newcomers.A fast read, recommended to people who fear numbers but shouldn't.
Innumeracy is the norm rather than the exception, especially so in countries with a crappy educational system, the average person (even the highly educated ones) is literally scared of mathematics.
This book is one my favorites for addressing this subject and simply demonstrating very useful math ideas that are perceived usually as rather complex.
It also analyses several pseudoscientific claims not in a debunking fashion but rather to show the underlying mathematics behind these tricks and how they appear to work.
the book is well written especially considering the relative fortitude of the topics it discusses.
