https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32051912-the-alice-network
“Facing a pistol-wielding murderer does tend to put parents further down the list of things to be intimidated by.” The Alice Network, to put it plainly, is too long a book for one of its two perspectives to not work for me. Most of my three star ratings are "I liked it, but...", though in this case it's more that I liked roughly half of the book and had to force myself not to skim through the other chapters.Many historical books use the perspectives of two characters more successfully than this
The first that springs to mind is Orphan Train, a book that also uses two female characters to tell stories in two very different time periods.
In this book, Eve's tale during World War I is so gripping and dangerous that the story noticeably slows down and becomes dull when we are forced to return to Charlie's perspective in 1947.In 1915, Eve Gardiner is recruited as a spy in the Alice Network, based on the very real story of Alice Dubois who led an espionage team in Lille during the First World War. Eve is a fiery character who refuses to be held back by conventional gender roles and the speech impediment she has struggled with her whole life.
"The Alice Network" was a nice escape for me.
I enjoyed one part of the book but not the other.
There are two storylines going on.
I absolutely loved the story in 1915 but the story in 1947 was just OK for me.
I didn't like the character of Charley nor that storyline.
I'm not a huge fan of historical fiction so maybe it's just me.
A lot of people loved this book.I listened to the audio version.
No problems there.WWI storyline - 5 StarsWWII storyline- 2.5 StarsIf you enjoy historical fiction you might really like this book.
In the last several years women from many different walks of life and ethnicities, and their integral contributions to the arts and science are being uncovered, recognized and brought to mainstream attention in books and movies.
The Alice network, operating in France, is another such contribution, taking place during the first world war and was a spy network consisting of women.
Eve's story takes us back to the first world war, when she was part of the Network and her horrific experiences at the hand of a profiteer.
Charley's story takes place in 1947, when she is looking for her cousin Rose who went missing in France.
I love a good historical novel and this one ranks right up there.
Telling two parallel tales, one of several female spies in Lille during WWI, the other of a pregnant college student looking for her cousin who went missing after the end of WWII.
Eve Gardiner, one of the spies, is the link between the two stories.
Both stories held my interest, which is a feat.
I loved reading about what the spies were able to accomplish and the risks they were willing to take to achieve their information.
This is a sad but ultimately redeeming tale of strength and courage.
I was introduced to an aspect of war that I haven't read much about - espionage, and even less so to an aspect reflecting the courage and intelligence and iron will of women serving as spies during WWl. Two time frames are connected even though there are two different wars, through the character of Eve Gardiner .
While Eve plays a major role in the more current time frame, at first reluctantly helping Charlie, it is the story of her past that is the most gripping.
While the main characters in this novel are fictitious, there are some real people in the story and one of them is the spy known as Alice Dubois, for whom the network of brave women is named (https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Louis...).
The Author's Note at the end of the book was wonderful in explaining a lot of historical detail and once I read that, I decided to round up to 3 stars instead of down to 2 stars.While I enjoyed the educational piece of this novel, I had a very hard time connecting with the storyline and characters.
She really took away from my overall enjoyment of this novel.I know I am in the minority with my feelings toward this book, so please read the numerous other raving reviews before making a decision and please visit the Traveling Sisters link listed below to see how our group had varying reactions and opinions of this book.
“Facing a pistol-wielding murderer does tend to put parents further down the list of things to be intimidated by.”― Kate Quinn, The Alice Network This is a very short review, but I couldn't stay completely silent on this book.
The Alice Network is excellent, and I might go so far as to say it is among my favorite this year, or even among my favorite historical fiction novels ever.
It had everything I wanted - mystery, history, adventure, drama, romance, wit - and though it is quite long, I was never bored.
Highly recommended, Kate Quinn has a new fan!Find more reviews and bookish fun at http://www.princessandpen.com
Steel blades such as you and I do not measure against standards for ordinary women. Louise de BettigniesIf this book was an anime, Charlie St. Claire would be what we call ‘filler’: A character or episode that is non-canon and was just there to make the anime longer, hence, filler. This is, of course, absolutely a personal experience but Charlie’s chapters more often than not were always always in the way of the bigger, more important action. I felt like I spent half the book trying to get her
Steel blades such as you and I do not measure against standards for ordinary women.
Louise de BettigniesIf this book was an anime, Charlie St. Claire would be what we call ‘filler’: A character or episode that is non-canon and was just there to make the anime longer, hence, filler.
I felt like I spent half the book trying to get her out of the way.
If the book was told from Eve’s and Lili’s perspective then it would have been so much more.
Speechless.War is the real beast: so ugly and leaves no one untouched, one way or another.
Owed to these inspiring women (and men).
3 Stars.The Alice Network was a Traveling Sister Group Read with Norma, Brenda, Lindsay and JanB.
The sisters were split on this one, which was quite interesting!The Premise of The Alice Network is a fascinating one: a historical novel based on the true story of a female spy network which took place during World War I.
In 1915: Eve Gardiner and Lilli are spies: Eve is a seemingly innocent, yet brilliant woman who becomes a spy for the Alice Network at the height of World War I.
And Lilli is the best and the brightest female spy ever.The war, however was tough.
THIS AUTHOR HAS A NEW BOOK COMING OUT IN FEBRUARY, "THE HUNTRESS", I HIGHLY RECOMMEND READING THIS NOVEL WHICH IS NOW IN PAPERBACK".
I hadn't read anything about women spies during WWI, lots about WWII, so this was unique.
The book alternates chapters between Charlie and Eve, both stories were enticing to read and I did find myself reading quickly to get back to the other character, but I liked them equally well.
They were both courageous and intelligent women and their stories are unique.I would highly recommend this historical fiction novel even based on the characters alone, but I know you will enjoy the plot!
This book, however, really wasn’t about the history, it was all about 2 woman’s silly behavior.
Pregnant and single, drunk, sleeping around - these should not be the highlights of a book written on a very serious matter - heroism.
However, I can’t imagine the real Louise de Bettignes treating what she did every day so lightly.
1947’s Eve wasn’t written much better.
I think back to one of my favorite books on war, A Constellation of Vital Phenomena, where women are treated with dignity and have fierce loyalty.1 out of 5 stars
Though she avoids deep diving into the political side of things, Quinn treats the two wars as continuing chapters in the lives and experiences of her cast and while I’m not sure every reader will appreciate the subtle nuance, I was personally very impressed with the thematic parallel.
In terms of tension, Quinn’s work can’t be compared to spy novels like Code Name Verity, but the personal journeys and conflicts faced by each character offer a different sort of intrigue.
4 stars for Norma and I 3 Stars for our Traveling SistersTraveling Sister Group read with Norma, Susanne, Lindsay and JanBWe read this book along with three of our Traveling Sisters and Norma & I ended up having different feelings about this novel than our other sisters did leaving us lost in the coulee without our sisters as we enjoyed this a little bit more than they did.The Alice Network is an interesting, fascinating, and an extraordinary historical fiction novel that is centered around a spy network of women lead by the remarkable Louise de Bettignies or Alice Dubois as she was known within this network of spies.The story is told in two separate timelines from our two main characters perspectives, Eve and Charlie bringing the two stories together in the end.
Oh dear!
I slogged through about 150 pages of this 500 page book before giving up.
It purports to be historical fiction, set partly in 1915 and partly in 1947.
I say purports, because just telling us the date won't really convince the reader, when a young woman in 1947 says "nice wheels" in reference to a car.
And then back in 1915, writing about Folkestone and the refugees there, we are told that "more French and Belgian (was) heard on the docks than English".
Belgian is a language?
A lot of people seem to have enjoyed this book.
i could not put this down! From the first chapter I was hooked. Memorable characters and an engrossing story. Glad that the bulk of the story focused on WWI rather than WWII... also, loved that it was based on actual people & events. 4.5 stars.
I love books set in WWI and WWII and The Alice Network takes places during the former and shortly after the latter.
After they have docked in Southampton, England, awaiting the second leg of their journey, Charlie sneaks away from her mother and takes a train to London because she has a secret mission: to find her French cousin, Rose, who disappeared during WWII while living in Nazi-occupied France.
Joining them on their journey to France to find Rose is Finn, a young Scotsman who works for and looks out for Eve. They pile into his Lagonda and their entertaining road trip begins but will Charlie and Eve find what they are looking for?The chapters alternate between Charlie’s story in 1947 and Eve’s story in 1915.
Traveling Sister Group read with Brenda, Susanne, Lindsay and JanBI found this book to be a very interesting and fascinating read that was quite enjoyable although there was some issues that I had with the authors portrayal of one of the characters. I so enjoyed learning about the remarkable women of the Alice Network and really appreciated that there was some truth to this story. Would recommend!The full Traveling Sisters Review can be found on our sister blog:http://www.twogirlslostinacouleereadi...
Welcome to the Alice Network.” Based on real characters and events, The Alice Network is a historical novel about two women who meet in 1947.
Eve had been a spy in World War I.
Everyone assumes Rose died during WWII, but Charlie wants proof, which leads her to Eve.The story weaves back and forth between 1915 and 1947.
Eve was a talented spy because she kept her ability to speak German a secret.
It’s an admirable, fast-paced novel about two women facing challenges and discrimination because of their gender.
Books set during WW2 are my favourite type of books to read and I thoroughly enjoyed this one. Not once was there a time when I felt the book to be slow. I felt for these characters and what they went through and when I read the Author's Note and found that it was based on true events, I loved the book that much more!
The chapters alternate between Charlie’s story in 1947 and Eve’s story in 1915 and I really enjoyed Eve's story the most.The Alice Network was new to me and I was really interested in reading a historical fiction book about this time in history and how women became spy's and put themselves out there in the midst of danger in order to help win the war.I always think the women are the unsung heros of war as they put up with and give up so much in wartime.
4.5So many readers have loved this book, and I couldn't wait to get my hands on it.
For most of the book, Charlie (short for Charlotte) got on my nerves and I didn't think her voice really fit the time period of 1940's.
I was much more interested in Eve's story from 1915- WWI where she was ensconced into a network of female spies working to derail the Germans during the war.
Great book with such a powerful message on living your fullest life with no regrets and standing up for something you believe in, even if it happens to be against the grain.
Title: The Alice NetworkSeries: StandaloneAuthor: Kate QuinnRelease date:  June 6, 2017Cliffhanger: NoHEA(view spoiler)[Yes (hide spoiler)]The Alice Network is one of the most brilliant and inspired books I have ever read. Yes, those are some tall words, but I say that with no hesitation or second thought. I feel like it's an impossible feat to sit here and adequately explain all of the reasons why you should  NEED TO READ THIS.  Let's get this straight right from the start. This is not for the
Title: The Alice NetworkSeries: StandaloneAuthor: Kate QuinnRelease date:  June 6, 2017Cliffhanger: NoHEA(view spoiler)[Yes (hide spoiler)]The Alice Network is one of the most brilliant and inspired books I have ever read.
“And it lacks an ending.”“So write the ending now.”In 1915, during a time when every woman was overlooked, underestimated, and stuffed into a tiny box of limitations, Eve wanted more out of life than societal precepts allowed.
Lili in particular as the head of the Alice Network was a central character, and based on the real life French spy Louise de Bettignies.
Dealing with female espionage, war and role of women, this novel was very well crafted and has a beautifully written prose.
Told in tandem by Charlie and Eve, from 1947 and 1915 respectively, this novel is foremost about one of the most successful ring of spies out of France called the Alice Network.
The connections are not obvious and the build-up was done masterfully.The best aspect of the novel are the true heroines that inspired it: Louise de Bettignies (aka Alice Dubois) and Leonie Van Houtte (aka Violette).
A great novel inspired by even greater women.
I'm a fan of all of Kate Quinn's books, but I'm downright gobsmacked by the genius that is The Alice Network.
I ended up truly loving both women, but it was Eve, the stuttering secretary-turned-spy who really stole the show.
Eve's life--and that of her World War I compatriots--sheds light on the terrors and tragedies that befell female spies during the Great War. I loved learning about The Alice Network through Eve's eyes, and am in awe of their sacrifices, which Quinn has painstakingly brought to life in this novel.
This is such an amazing book, bringing life to a segment of WWII history with brilliant characters and evocative vocabulary. I've seen it marketed mainly towards women but anybody can definitely enjoy this book, especially if you're a history buff.
Eve was trained at Folkestone to be a spy – to join the Alice Network in France and deliver the many German secrets which would help to win the war.
What followed was a search to find answers, both for Charlie and for Eve. And heartbreak, courage and retribution kept them company along the way…The Alice Network blends fact with fiction – the Author’s Note is a fascinating one, and covers little known facts about the courage and resourcefulness of those women who bettered the brutal Germans every day.
They were truly brave and inspiring women who saved the lives of many with the information they obtained and passed along.And therein lies the problem I have with much of historical fiction: I find the true story much more interesting and inspiring than the fictional one.In this book, there are two timelines, one set in WWI featuring Eve, a spy in the Alice Network, and the other is set in 1947, where Charlie (Charlotte), a foolish, vapid young woman, pregnant and unwed, goes on a search for her cousin Rose, who went missing during WWII.
"Evelyn Gardiner, would you be interested in entering the Crown's service as a spy?" For some reason I really enjoy historical novels based on real life events. Prior to reading this I knew little about female spy networks in WW1. There were some famous female spies in WW2 and the 'Alice Network' this book is based on deserves to be just as well known . Louise deBettignies (aka Alice Dubois), well educated and multilingual was head of the Alice Network of around 100 spies and later nicknamed th
Kate Quinn has created a fictional member of her network in Eve (Evelyn) Gardiner, an independent, feisty but innocent looking young woman living in London who wants to contribute to the war effort when she is recruited by Captain Cecil Aylmer Cameron (also a real life character) in 1915.
After two weeks of training, Eve is sent to Lille where she quickly finds a job in a restaurant called Le Lethe frequented by the German military.Eve's story of her WW1 experience is interwoven with that of Charlie St Clair's in 1947.
Charlie is no less stubborn and resourceful and her road trip with Eve and Finn forces her to grow up and decide what she wants to do with her life.
This novel is the reason why I love history!
The story then alternates back in time to when Eve was a spy in France during World War I and back to Charlie's time.
It is very well done and keeps the reader on edge wanting to know what will happen next.
This was an incredible novel that was based in real history.
I love when an author can truly bring history to life and make me care so deeply about the characters.
So many times when a book is laid out in this manner, I find myself enjoying one timeline more than the other.
I was really very equally interested in both times and I thought that the way they worked together was flawless.The characters in this book were amazing.
She is the focus of the 1915 time period and her character plays a very important role in 1947.
This story is set during two very rough periods of time historically.
The dual timelines worked together perfectly and each period told a very interesting story.
