https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33830437-far-from-the-tree
What an absolutely amazing contemporary novel.
I would recommend it to absolutely everyone.CW: teen pregnancy, adoption, foster care system, alcoholismI don't feel I even have the words to express how fantastic this book is.
It is touching, emotional, heart-warming and heart-wrenching at the exact same time.
Far From The Tree  is one of those books that causes you to have a weight on your chest the entire time you are reading.
I cried from sadness and happiness all throughout the novel.
This novel is absolutely at the top of my recommendations list to anyone interested in serious contemporaries.
4.5* This was so well done! The writing was great and I truly felt for the characters and their struggles. I will admit I did struggle a bit with a suspension of disbelief just in regards to the fact that the mother had 3 kids in a very short period of time when she was extremely young. But, that was a very minor thing. Overall I thought this book was really good!
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend. Do yourself a favor and read this book.
I’ve seen it on TV many times before, and I’ve read different stories with characters in the foster care system (try One for the Murphys right now!) but I thought I should give this a chance nonetheless.And it’s fine.
The story didn’t impress me, and I found the writing dry, and the characters two-dimensional, but I guess I could have finished it if I had had the time, but I knew that by the end of it I wouldn’t be able to give it higher than three stars, and that’s just sad.The author’s choice to write it in the third person point of view befuddles me.
I have read books from her written in the first person point of view and I enjoyed them much more.
But this was so lovely.This book revolves around three siblings, each with their own conflicts.
I don’t want to give away much about this book, because it’s one best experienced.
But if I were to sum this book up, it feels so 
And I adore the way Maya is represented as a gay girl.
It turns out she wasn't the only gay kid at school, and she was never harassed or teased - but she found she didn't know how to be affectionate with friends.
This book feels so personal, and so emotional, but also so hopeful.
4.5 stars for this one.Robin Benway's  Far from the Tree  recently won the National Book Award. It's a beautiful, thought-provoking tearjerker of a book, a meditation about family and its different forms, as well as the fears we don't share with those we love, and how what we don't say is often more of a roadblock than the things we do.At times this book had me like: While at other times it had me like: Grace is an only child, although she's always known that she was adopted. But shortly after s
But little by little, they let their walls down with one another and try to help each other face those fears—which is far easier said than done."Maya wondered if it would ever be like this with Grace and Joaquin, the ability to just sit quietly side by side, content in the knowledge that no matter what happened with your parents, or your girlfriend, that your siblings will still be there, like a bookend that keeps you upright when you feel like toppling over."There is a lot of emotional upheaval in this book, as the siblings deal with their own issues as well as search for their biological mother.
It was a very real reminder about the fears and anxieties adopted children and children in the foster care system face, and it also demonstrated how feeling like you belong for the first time can truly make a difference.This is a really well-written book.
Sap Warning I come from a big family and even though at times they can be annoying as heck and other times make me want to jump out of a window, theyre literally my life and I would die without themokay im done my sap – grossAND THIS BOOK IS ALL ABOUT FAMILY AND ITS AMAZING AND PERFECT AND SO SPECIAL kermit gets me- BEAUTIFUL BEAUTIFUL BEAUTIFUL and honest sibling rep. this was done so sosososooso well- Theyre annoying and irritating and you want to punch them sometimes but like they got your b
That’s what family is.”Excuse me while I go cry again5 stars!!

“Perfect for fans of NBC’s “THIS IS US”, ( I am a fan), Robin Benway’s beautiful interweaving story of three very different teenagers connected by blood explores the meaning of family in all its forms - how to find it, keep it, and how to love it.”I can’t stress enough how WONDERFUL THIS AUDIOBOOK WAS.
......I enjoyed them all.....So, I want to simply add I loved LISTENING to this story.
I REALLY THINK MOST OF MY GIRLFRIENDS WOULD *LOVE* THESE CHARACTERS - guys too- AND THE AUDIOBOOK IS TERRIFICALLY ENGROSSING!!!Maya kept me laughing.
Not much else to add - other than this is a BEAUTIFUL BOOK!
RATING: 5/5"Seventeen years is a long time to wait for a family''This book is an example of why I need the Goodreads Rating Scale to be bigger.
I loved how supportive they were of each other through all the lows and how they celebrated the highs.I’m not sure how much thought went into writing this book but it seems like a lot.
Oh how I wish I knew…*Side note: I was shocked to realize I haven’t read many books involving teen pregnancy.
Not sure if YA authors don’t know how to handle the topic or I haven’t looked enough*Overall, an excellent book that I think EVERYONE should read.
Damn, that was beautiful.
I’m way too materialistic for this BS.Now we can talk about the actual contents.I first heard about this book because it won the National Book Award for Young Adult Literature, and I was doing a very grown-up blog post for the very grown up college-affiliated blog I’m part of on the best books of the year.
Let alone write the National Book Award about!
It’s a contemporary and it has a pretty cover and it won a Big Award, so I figured may as well.And that’s pretty much what I got.
I didn’t aaaaaactualllyyyy feel nothing while I read this!
and it’s saving my reading challenge so yeet  5 stars ✨  "Seventeen years is a long time to wait for a family." I can't express in words how much I loved this book.
but yay?).When I say I love contemporary, or whenever I get the need to read contemporary books  this  is what I'm talking about.
Let me just insert the quote that confirmed my love for him; "It has pockets," Grace said.
let's just count the number of times I've used the word "love" in this review like damn my heart I though this book was not going to end well.
Omg. So touching. I cry 😭
Some of their baggage is shared and some is very specific to the character.The Story – There’s a lot going on here but it all blends seamlessly.
Yet throughout there’s an underlying sense of hope and healing.The Feels – As you might guess from reading the above, this is a very emotional read.
Be prepared for teary eyes.The Writing/Narration – I can’t speak to how it would be to read this in print but the language was very easy to listen to.
The narrator, Julia Whelan did a fantastic job giving each character a very specific voice.The Takeaway – Far From the Tree is a beautiful story.
OH FUCK THIS WAS SO GOOD.this was emotional and put my heart through the wringer.this won the national book award for a reason and it's an all time favorite.family stories are always a favorite of mine and this was just incredible.i really wanted to read this originally because it was compared to This Is Us and that is one of my all time favorite shows and JESUS IT IS SUCH A GOOD COMPARISON in terms of family and feels and just UGH OMG I HAVE TOO MANY FEELINGS RIGHT NOW.
It's one of those books that makes you feel so many things and it takes serious willpower for me not to recommend this to everyone I come across.
Once I finished this book, I realised it actually dealt with so many issues and it was done so eloquently.
I really liked how the book was split into three different POV's because we got to see just how distinctive each character was.
They were all dealing with different things and it was just great to see how each of them dealt with everything.
WHY AREN'T THERE MORE BOOKS LIKE YOU IN THE WORLD!!This thing had be sobbing, and laughing, and sobbing while laughing, and tearing my hair out, and more sobbing, and yelling "How did you know?!?!" I swear there's not a box of tissues or a roll of toilet paper left in the house.I am emotionally done.
It's bringing a whole lotta feelings I thought I had under control to the surface.I was a teen mum.
My son is now a teen himself and I pat us both on the back and say 'we did it kid'.
I just finished reading this book, and I honest to goodness cannot stop crying thinking about it. What a beautiful, raw, honest portrayal of families in a way I've never really encountered before. What an amazing sibling story. The relationships, the characters, the story - all just so wonderful, and this is def my fave Robin Benway book as of right now.
Like “this scene is here to make you sad!” “This character is here to give XYZ a love interest!” I’m no creative writing major and I can’t tell you what exactly contributed to that, as much as I like being specific in my reviews.
What I can say is that I wanted more complexity in places, but can’t say how exactly that could have been fixed.
So beautiful! I loved this book so much. This is a story about three siblings who have been fostered and adopted by separate families very early in their lives, and shows readers the many definitions family can have. I adored every minute of reading this book! Overall, love the characters, the story, and the meaning behind this entire book!
It’s a perfectly fine feel-good novel about adoption and sibling love, with abundance of compassionate people and HEA for all. A bit too sentimental, simplistic and tear-jerky for my taste.Reminded me of Sara Zarr’s novels, but less nuanced.
I applaud anyone who was able to review this book coherently. Basically all I can think to say is : be prepared to cry. A lot.
I haven’t cried so much reading a book in a long time. Beautiful.
reread 7/11/18i loved it even more than the first time i read it if that’s possible.
can’t wait to reread it again next year, one of my favourite books ever 😭💛————————————— Rating  - 5 stars.
This story follows three siblings who have been separated - adopted & fostered - when they were younger into different families.
It also had a good representation of LGBT, families, foster care, adoption etc etc.
This is a story that will most definitely stick with me.I would recommend this to everybody to read.**I am planning to do a reread sometime this year so I can do a full review**
Grace is being bullied in school because she had a child and thus, to the tormentors, is a "slut." Maya is the requisite (for YA these days) LGBT character with a rapier wit and a mouth that won't quit.
Joaquin is the angry young man (cue Billy Joel).All told, it gets a bit old as it heads for the high 300s.
And it suffers two peculiar YA problems -- coincidences and "perfect" characters (often boyfriends--in this case, Grace's understanding and oh-so-sensitive bf Rafe whose humor looks too similar to Maya's, truth be told).Enjoyable in its way.
He has lived almost his entire life in foster care, and while there's a couple who wants to adopt him now, he doesn't feel like he deserves that.🍂 Grace, white and straight, got pregnant as a teen.
But nothing felt underdeveloped or just there to make you sad, and if by the end a few spoiler-y things felt a little contrived, I didn't even care that much.If you liked this book and/or want to read something that deals with similar themes, I recommend the underrated This Is What It Feels Like by Rebecca Barrow, which is another emotional, well-written diverse contemporary.The main reason I'm not giving this book a full five stars is that I often had no sense of setting.
BookTubeAThon Day 6: Book #4 📚I heard that this book is a tear-jerker so hit me with all of the emotions, I'm readyish
There was only one major thing that I did not like about this book and that was Joaquin. I did not like him as a character. I disagreed with a lot of the things he did and just personally did not connect with him. Other than that I did really enjoy this book. I loved how it was written from 3 different perspectives but none of the narrative was repeated. Highly recommend the read.
A heartwarming story of family, identity and discovering your place in the world.
This the second of Robin Benway’s books I’ve read and it didn’t disappoint.
Her writing is so comfortable to read, her stories easy to follow and her characters are undeniably quick to warm to.
I throughly enjoyed the multitude of topics this book covered, whilst simultaneously keeping them intertwined but not overwhelming the plot with ‘too much’.
I thought the various relationships explored throughout were wonderful and the diverse cast of characters and their individual narratives were brilliant to read.
Overall this was a lovely and unique YA read and one I’d definitely recommend.
