https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7667.Airframe
I'm not scared of it, I just dislike being herded into inky-dinky seats meant for short people by ill-tempered sky-waiters who charge for pillows and booze, and then I have to pay more than I used to make a week for the privilege of being searched, patted by men I'm not attracted to in places I don't want to be patted unless I am, etc etc etc.Fifteen years ago, all that was more or less to come, and storymonger Crichton used planes for a very different kind of tale.
What happens to cause a huge section of a plane to go *flooey*, killing a few people and making the entire world nervous about flying?
I read this book aloud to my husband during the past week or so, and parts of it were very dramatic, but other parts (all those charts!) were a bit dull even though we knew they were important.
Typical Chrichton fast moving story, but it does tend to porpoise a bit just like the plane itself did.
I learned a great new expression, shouted in disgust by one of the airplane manufacturer's engineers when he is examining the engine and discovers something that is not the way it should be, even though he insists it could not have contributed to the 'incident'.
Mike gave me this book when we visited him, Anna, and Kaley at their Woodbridge apt--jesus it must be 3 or 4 (or 5?) years ago.
Anna tried it.
But the fuckin author uses every acronym under the sun.
The FBI, the CIA, the PIC, SIC, OR--I'm like Grrrr FUCK THIS BOOK.
Can't do it.me: (probably spitting my wine all over the balcony and choking on my laughter)MS: Dude take it.
I honestly don't remember every detail, but I enjoyed it.
We were also visiting Mike n Anna at that apt when my dad called and told me my Nanny died.
I will be putting up my review of Stoner tomorrow, I promise; I need to fine tune it some.But more to the point, Airframe was a book that I enjoyed quite some time back.
Crichton seamlessly blends the science fiction element into his thrillers, and I think that;s why his books are as good as they are.
Despite all these elements though, Airframe doesn't stray far from what it really is, a thriller at its heart.
Even though Crichton died before I got my hands on this book, I must say I do miss him.
It has a marvelous blend of science, information and a good plot that keeps the pages turning.It’s interesting that many of the reviews I read focused on the aircraft industry.
I think the book is more about the media and it’s relentless pursuit of the visual and the sound bite at the expense of truth and the whole picture more than about airplanes.Enroute from Hong Kong to Denver, a brand new Norton-22, a plane clearly modeled on the Boeing 747, pitches and dives like a porpoise before being brought under control.
The media image is the reality, and by comparison day-to-day life seems to lack excitement.
Read this a while ago. Back then I probably would have given it four or five stars, but tastes change. I remember starting to read this, while sitting in a plane, about to hurl itself down a runway to take-off and thinking "How stupid can I be?" If you want some well written, fast paced entertainment, without having to engage too much brain power, this is a good choice. Unless you are afraid of flying... ;)
As someone who worked most of my life in Aerospace, on the supersonic B-1 bomber, and then on several Titan missile and launch vehicle programs, I found the book well researched.
However, never having worked for an airline or been familiar with their maintenance programs, I can't say that with certainty.I liked the female aerospace manager, having been one myself, and while others on Goodreads have written here that Crichton tends to populate his books with stereotypical characters, I say hooray for acknowledging that there are now women in aerospace who (a) have engineering degrees and well-honed critical thinking skills, and (b) have drilled through the difficult-to-penetrate glass ceiling.
I don't think I missed anything doing it that way.The characters are stereotyped beyond belief: the hard working but put upon single mother, the brusque and impatient boss, the techy nerds, the debonair test pilot, the slimy industrial spy, the good-hearted mentor, the young, overly ambitious news producer, and on and on.The plot involves an incident on a Norton Aircraft passenger liner that is complicated by a pending sale of the same model to China, a union action to stall manufacturing offsets going to China as a condition of the sale, internal company politics, and a pending "Newsline" story about unsafe Norton aircraft.
Like most of his other books, this one is well researched by Crichton but I guess not enough to hold my full attention.
Still, I am giving it at least 3 stars just because I like Crichton and his style.
This one is on a "mehh" scale for me but that is not to say that it was a bad book or a bad read.
In fact, I could have read this book in a day or two if I did not have work.
Chapters were few pages each and they read very fast.
It was a fast paced techno mystery from the first to the last.
I feel like I learned a lot about the design, manufacturing and flying of commercial aircraft.
I also learned how lax the quality control is for airlines (seriously, I might never fly again).
Casey is a quality investigator for an airplane manufacturer who is sent to investigate an incident that occurred involving one of her company's planes.
If you are looking for a good mystery or even just a page turner, don't miss this one.
Read this one a while back before I joined GR. Learned a lot about how planes are built. Good book for airplane geeks.
Enlightening, enjoyed it. Thrilled me, really. I think it was the first time I consciously became aware of scent of women, it wasn't warning enough. So beware a la Little Red Lung. And, I learned how the planes take off and more importantly stay in the air. Very interesting. See, this is what I love about Crichton, he taught me so many things without being smug about it.I can only hope he is with Odin right now.
Airframe is - for better or for worse, depending on your point of view - exactly what we've come to expect from a Michael Crichton novel.
There's a big-budget action sequence to get us going, a myriad of technological details, a mystery to be solved, a conspiracy driving things in the background, one well-developed protagonist, and a cast of supporting players that really don't exist beyond their role in the plot.Having said all that, it's also a novel I finished over the course of a weekend.The technology is, as always, intriguing without being overwhelming.
The conspiracy may be a little too obvious for readers of his other works, but it still works.Overall, Airframe is certainly no Jurrasic Park or Disclosure, but it's much better than weaker efforts such as Sphere or Congo.
Warning: Do not read this if you're going to board a plane in the next two weeks. Stunner of a book. Typical Crichton. Supremely complex subject, turned into a very digestible thriller. Airplane technology merged with the greed and machinations of the media industry. Wonderfully written and a satisfying ending. If you like thrillers and don't mind learning a thing or two about aviaton, you'll love this.
Michael Crichton is a master of taking complicated subjects and easing the reader into them while at the same time making the characters seem well immersed in the details.
Though all the characters know more about airplanes than you ever will, Crichton has presented a spectacular mixture of in-depth research and understandable explanations.
Not only by the end of the novel did I understand way more about airplanes, including not only the machines themselves but also the complex politics behind the manufacturing industry, but I quickly found myself following along with the technical details of the investigation.
I chose this book for my August reading challenge (criterion: must be a book I've never read) only to discover after reading it that I have read this book, and it was utterly forgettable. Though at least now I know why the central mystery seemed so obvious a solution.
Fuselage, Auto pilot, Slat deployment, Stall alarm, JAA, FAA, Autopilot, Avionics,Nose up & down,Cycle electrical test, whatelse??A very good investigative thriller pack. But climax is childish.
Among the Crichton books I've read,this is the one I enjoyed most.Fast paced entertainment interspersed with technical details which do not become boring.
As someone with an interest in aviation (I’m a fan of trashy TV programmes like Air Crash Investigation, and also the excellent Flaps podcast), I thought Airframe was the perfect option to fill the gap.Airframe is advertised as “a fast-paced, adrenaline-fuelled thriller from the master of high-concept storytelling”.
I have some objections to this description: I don’t think it’s fast-paced, adrenaline fuelled, a thriller, or high-concept storytelling.
But it’s certainly true that pages of technical description does little to heighten the jeopardy of the plot, considering that this is marketed as a thriller.All of which is not to say that the book is bad, per sé: It’s just exceptionally bland.
Crichton has a true best seller here that holds the attention all the way through the 400+ pages.
I like the fact that his protagonist is a gutsy lady who is working with a bunch of engineers in an aircraft plant.
She knows how to hold her own and that takes a lot when you know how engineers manage their interpersonal relations and staff.
We'll miss tha fact that Crichton is no longer with us and able to continue to stimulate our imaginations to such a high degree.
That’s what this book is – easy.
It’s about an airplane crash, the media’s desire to sensationalize instead of report the news, and the politics of the airplane business.
I suppose if airplanes interest you, you might find some aspects to this book interesting.
I still found the book intriguing even though I don’t really know much about airplanes, nor do I especially care to.
I wasn’t as glued to the story as I was to some other Crichton novels, but it’s still a decent book if that’s the kind of book you like.
If you want a page-turner with a lot of techno-speak about airplanes thrown in for good measure, then this one's for you.
The pace of this book is fantastic, and I probably would have read it in 2-3 days had I not had other things going on.
This one starts off with the problem and then takes another 400 pages to get to the bottom of what happened to Flight 545.
I enjoyed the book but not so much as to where I would read it again.
I enjoyed this book, but for me, it does follow what I find to be the usual Michael Crichton formula: really entertaining and suspenseful story with a lot of energy put into detail (in this case, he put in a lot of infomation about airplanes, which I found to be very interesting), but the end is weak and unbelievable. I have found this to be the case with several of his other novels - almost like he just didn't know how to end a book.But, his stories are interesting enough that despite the weak endings, I will keep reading.
I first read it when I was in 11th, I guess. I didn't understand a bit - thought it to be too dense. I promised myself that I would read it again, as and when I sit in an airplane so that I could slightly visualize what was happening.Given the fact that I have now become more adept at reading denser stuff, and now that I have already seen the inside of a plane - the ride was less bumpy. This book has always been an acquired taste. Efforts have to be made, but the rewards are satisfying.
IMO, Crichton's best novel. The technicality of it is really astounding, as though an aircraft engineer wrote the story and not him. A very interesting mystery that goes deep into all the incredible work done by aviation investigators after a crash.
For someone scared of flying, I was recommended this book. Well written, gripping and full of facts about planes and the level of testing involved before they are used commercially. It has alleviated some of my terror and I hope the next time in fly (May), I remember this feeling.
Learnt a few things1. Disasters are often caused by a sequence of unfortunate incidents.2. Record keeping is a good thing.3. Humans ARE the weakest link.4. Don't let your kid fly your plane. 5. Wear seatbelts, just in case.
Too much technicalities.:(
E proprio come in un giallo ben congegnato, gli elementi per scoprire la verità sono disseminati ovunque nella trama, ragione in più per cui consiglio di leggerlo in ogni sua parte con estrema attenzione.Who’s afraid of flying?I remember having postponed the reading of this book, as a result of a comment by a passenger on a flight from Cagliari to London, which advised me against it before flying.At the moment I thought it would be really disturbing, but now, after reading it, I realise that it did exactly the opposite effect to me.We are undoubtedly facing a great thriller, which narrates about a strange plane crash and follows all investigations into its causes, with a lot of interference by the media, which tend to place greater emphasis as always to the sensational appearance of the matter, rather than the truth, in an absolutely ruthless way, enough to bring down a large company.
4* At first, I had a little difficulty becoming engaged.
I liked the idea and felt there was a good story coming.
But I have become used to the seamless writing of many great authors and am spoiled.
When I am not quickly engaged and hauled along flawlessly, I feel like I get tripped up, though it’s not always that strong.
Things just didn’t seem as solid as they might have and I was a bit wary.
I really enjoyed the story and all the action, and it gave me a number of things to think about.
Good one!
