https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18242.A_Savage_War_of_Peace
The French had been there since 1830, and generations of European families – the so-called pieds noirs – had grown up there who had never set foot in mainland France.
In Paris it was politically unthinkable to imagine giving up an integral part of France itself; the pieds noirs were fighting for the survival of their whole world; and the French military were desperate not to lose again after humiliation in 1940 and later in Indochina.
The French army, meanwhile, often resorted to the worst of methods to try and extract information from their prisoners: Algeria was where the whole business of institutionalised military torture first came under the spotlight in a serious way.
But despite some major similarities in the wars, Algeria is not like Iraq.
There are not one million American civilians settled in Iraq before the war, Iraq is not five hundred miles off the coast of the United States, and the Kurds are better friends to us than the Kabylians were to the French.
He writes about lists of terrorist organizations and underground fighters, miniature biographies of courageous Algerians, soldiers both honorable and foul, and the whirligig politics of the French metropole, with de Gaulle swooping in from retirement, generals' putsches, and far-right terrorism, all of which seem like an opera buffa but with bombs.
It caused the fall of six French governments, led to the collapse of the Fourth Republic, brought de Gaulle back to power, and came close to provoking a civil war on French soil.
Even without knowing that A Savage War of Peace found an unlikely niche market in the Bush White House or that Ariel Sharon kept a copy on his bedside table, you can’t help but draw parallels between the French experience in Algeria and the West’s current imbroglios in the Islamic world.
By the middle years of the war, they were engaging in tit-for-tat terrorism and inveigling the French army into open rebellion, thereby undermining their own cause.
When I read The Rape of Nanking, about the atrocities committed by the Japanese in 1937-1938, I found it a very important book and a book I wanted to support because the Japanese still today evade the truth.
The atrocities committed during this war hit home because they are committed by people of European culture, albeit not only bu them.
The atrocities related in this book had to be detailed.
The book starts not in 1954, but in the 1830s, when the French settled in Algeria.
Similarly, in an unconventional war like Northern Ireland or Algeria, there are the brutalities, the roughing-up, the passage à tabac that may be inflicted immediately following the arrest of a suspected terrorist; and there is the prolonged and systematic application of physical or psychological pain expressly aimed at making a suspect “talk”, which constitutes torture as opposed to brutality.
Against all odds and expectations this revolt would totally put an end to Algerie Francaise, creating a new nation and sending over a million French pied noir back across the Mediterranean.Horne's book is a very captivating grand history of the Algerian revolution.
In its war to suppress the Algerians, French military officers leaders really embraced the chilling doctrine of “any means necessary.”The FLN on the other hand are a case study in how brutal, even totalitarian, an armed insurgency usually must become to be to succeed.
Well if they had they took the wrong lessons away with them.The lessons are: torture does not work, a political war is not won on the battlefield, a determined enemy can not be easily negotiated with as they are not a sovereign power, an army that becomes politicized encountering insurgency is not easily depoliticized.Oh lets dispel any lingering myths about the prowess of French arms.
This conflict was almost 'won' by the French on the battlefield but they were defeated on the international stage and politically on the ground.
The author makes clear that he was unable to access decent sources from the Algerian side, but anyone buying this book should be aware that this is French history more than anything else.
The author makes some efforts to understand the Algerians, but it often comes back to the same comments about their "inscrutable" nature.
The fact that France was constantly at risk of military take-over during the eight year period this book covers was a revelation to me.
The French military's transition from world-spanning force, to a strictly continental one was much more traumatic than that of the British.
I have to admit that this is one of the if not the best historical book I have read and that includes Roy Jenkin’s bio of Churchill.
:) Not even going to try to summarize this one bit more than saying that it’s a book about the 8 year war of independence that Algeria fought with France and with themselves.
Google / Wikipedia any of the following in the context of Algeria (in no particular order) and you get a jist of the shizzle: barricades week, battle of Algiers, harkis, Brazzaville, sakiet, morice line, Constantine, evian agreements, FLN, L’Algerie Francais, OAS, Kabylia, neuf historiques, Ramadan war, and setif.
They were called “pieds noirs” (explained in the book) – and many had been in Algeria for several generations.> The almost 10 million native Muslim inhabitants had their land stolen by the pieds noirs.
This was a direct threat to those in France and the pieds noirs in Algeria who wanted Algerie Francaise.
The pieds noirs in Algeria criticized the French Army for not doing enough to protect them.
The FLN was also killing more and more moderate Muslims who were sympathetic to France.
Over one million pieds noirs left and abandoned their possessions and land; most went to France.
As well, the fate of Algerian Muslims who emigrated after independence echoes to this day in France - every time you hear about riots by "unemployed youths" in French urban areas, they are usually talking about the descendants of those refugees.Alistair Horne's book, A Savage War of Peace, is considered pretty much the definitive book on the subject.
Some Muslims were loyal to France; many French were sympathetic or even outright supportive of the FLN, and the Pied-Noirs themselves were divided over the great question of Algerian independence.
Horne offers a very balanced review, never favoring the Algerian French population, nor the indigenous Muslims, and likewise does not shy away from detailing the horrors perpetuated by either side.
After reading this book, it will be interesting to see how Camus weaves his support for the Algerian French population though the vestiges of French colonialism and paternalism.
If anything, Camus is proven here to be just a man after all, as flawed as any of us.The only criticism I have of this book is that the author uses many French phrases and quotes without giving their English translation.
For example, I say "a war," even though I was informed by a French colleague yesterday that many French historians prefer to avoid that word, choosing instead to refer to "the events" in Algeria.
Still, where it succeeds, it does so brilliantly; it painstakingly states and restates what can only be described as fundamental misunderstandings by the French about the realities of their colonial government of Algeria, not to mention the motives of the various peoples who opposed them.
Ricks, The Washington Post"[This] universally acclaimed history...should have been mandatory reading for the civilian and military leaders who opted to invade Iraq."—The Washington TimesBoth statements feel ominous on what might be the eve of air strikes against Libya.
I am reading now the journal of the author Mouloud Feraoun, which has broken my heart in two and left me far more critical of Horne's account because it exemplifies what is missing -- the understanding of a colonised people finally standing up, along with the day to day fear, violence, death, descriptions of torture, hunger, loss, conflicted feelings about the FLN even while fully supporting their struggle.Three things primarily struck me in reflecting back on it.
(354)He worked in Indo-China and Algeria, and was put in charge of the Cinquième Bureau, with its 'potent functions of propaganda and psychological warfare'...It is not just that they were heroes of the resistance, these men appropriated symbols of uprising from their history, drawing parallels from the French Revolition and the Paris Commune.
Free France had very little military power and therefore lost her Great Power status and her ability to direct any allied war efforts.
The army wanted Algeria for France and nothing else.
In a stunning move, the French military in Algeria staged a coup that overthrew the government in France and led to the ascendance of De Gaulle.
This led to French Algerian forces and citizens becoming terrorists (the OAS) and attacking the French forces in France and Algeria.
France did not learn her colonial lessons in Indochina and she repeated them in Algeria.

Absorbing, complex narrative covering a fascinating subject - the war/terror campaign by Algerians to liberate their country from French rule and French Army 's revolt that threatened to overthrow the French government - that I knew very little about before picking up this book.
If you don't either, make sure you read the book in the vicinity of a French speaker or have an English-French dictionary handy - Horne has an unfortunate habit at times of providing a quote in the original French and not providing the English translation - you can usually infer the meaning, but still, I am too old and lazy for that type of challenge in my entertainment reading.
This book is exactly why he wears this crown on his august head -- it's an extraordinary story of a brutal war that much of the world ignored while France fought viciously and ultimately to a bitter defeat.
Many pointed to this book as a case study of everything the US was doing in Iraq.
But to confine this book as simply a precurser of Iraq is one dimensional.
Rather, it is a story of how the world has changed and the West has failed to understand exactly how to deal with those changes.
Very detailed history about a war and colonialism that does not get as much acknowledgement as it should in the West.
The implication was that France's experiences in Algeria might hold some lessons for the United States as it fought the Iraqi insurgency (at the time a greater concern than the war in Afghanistan).I find this quite ironic, for the one great lesson of Horne's book is how history can enslave strategy, at enormous cost.
(The only comparable event in the Iraq War is when the US temporarily ordered civilian Iraqis out of Fallujah.) Does the French experience in Algeria hold operational lessons about counterinsurgency?
He was a great man who seized an opportunity to arrest his nation's decline and reoriented France towards a different future/ He is a transformational figure in French history.
The is a fantastic piece of world history, of a war of independence fought by Algerian Muslims against their French occupiers who treated Algeria as its very own province.
It’s a book about how the Algerian Muslims caught their occupiers who were 3rd generation French settlers and staked a huge claim on Algeria, Algeri Frances.
But when it became clear that holding onto Algeria was no longer sustainable as the France began to loose its stature as a world leader, the French turned to Charles De Gaulle.
The book is fantastically detailed but super captivating, capturing the French passion and flair.
Not long ago, I wrote of "Mao's Last Revolution" that I "could not see the forest for the trees." Yet, Horne's book on Algeria was highly detailed and yet still gave me a sense of the forest.
I didn't only because it is so very long!
Visiting Algeria after the war, Horne speaks to an Algerian official who, explaining the building of a complex and marina where the French landed in 1830, "We thought this was the most appropriate kind of monument so the French can land here again--but this time with their travellers' cheques!" That sentence said so much.
The Algerian War of Independence against France was, in many ways, the archetype of the "wars of liberation" of the 20th century as imperialism passed out of favor.
The French army almost destroyed itself by mutinying against the French government to prevent France's withdrawal, and it is unlikely that anyone other than De Gaulle could have faced down the mutinous troops and generals (and their terrorist allies, the OAS) and ended the war.
Alistair Horne is perhaps the outstanding historian of modern France writing in English, and this work is his finest in many ways.
D.E.N.S.E. But, I felt remarkably smart reading it on the Google shuttle, in the face of the Jr. engineer, plowing through his highlighted copy of "You: The Owners Manual". The feeling lasted, too. I.e. Anyone down to get arcane viz. Algeria and France and the US and Iraq(Iran)? Because baby, I'm equipped.
Gruelling tough minded, balanced account of the war that is the classic on counter insurgency. Read by everyone from Petraeus, the Pentagon, the Israeli cabinet, Hamas, Bin Laden. In middle east peace talks, everyone has it in their briefcase. But not for the faint hearted and not good for your faith in human goodness: the atrocities on both sides are truly awful.
So dense and drowning in details that it loses sight of the story and becomes difficult to follow.
Secret negotiations between de Gaulle and Abbas failed to reach a solution, while new terrorist campaigns alienated the FLN’s potential French allies, even though they were now more careful about not targeting civilians.None of this, however, could prevent the militarization of the pieds noirs, who engaged increasing violence that culminated in the “Barricades Week”, where they occupied government buildings and held a standoff against the French military.
Like most Americans, the more history I read the fewer kind words I hand off to Charles de Gaulle.
The negotiations between de Gaulle's delegates and the Algerian revolutionaries at Evian are every bit as frustrating as reports on the Paris Peace Talks a decade later; considering the U.S. was also trying to painfully extricate itself from a former French colony in 1968, this is an appropriate comparison.
I do plan, however, to read some more Camus after digesting this good book, likely with a glass of merlot in my hand.
And so after WWII and the disaster in Vietnam, many of the Berbers felt the pinch of poverty as weather and economic conditions were poor, a small group of disaffected individuals discussed and set in motion a revolutionary plan to create a separate nation.
One of the attacks (there were so many and only a tiny handful of the whole are detailed in this history) was in a small mining town.
The Arab populace carried out a planned attack as the men came home from the mine and killed most of the European people in the town.
One of the best history books I've ever read.
Not the first fight to free a nation and not the last, but Algeria -- if not Algerians -- were part of France, not a distant patch of land.
Only too late, after the war began, did they begin to take action to liberalize policies.
By not doing so, they lost the many Algerians who wanted some accommodation with France.
When that middle was lost, everything was lost in what ultimately became a blood bath.
It is also a book to read so history does not repeat itself.
It's message is that, ultimately, the insurgents will win.
