https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11572.Quitters_Inc
First published in 1978, QUITTER'S, INC. will make you think twice about seeking help for a tobacco addiction.Very Short.......Very Dark.......Very Stephen King! Enjoyed the audio! NOTE: DO NOT READ BOOK SUMMARY....GIVES TOO MUCH AWAY!!!
It was pretty good,( I didn't even feel that I wanted to try the newer version) but I felt it missed out on the perfect ending the story had.
Though the movie's ending was good, I think they could have added another 30 seconds to include the one from the book.
Always good with Stephen King. I wish it was a little longer of a story though.
I'm glad I was able to quit on my own...
This is one of the four stories in Night Shift I was looking forward to the most (the others being "The Mangler," "Trucks," and "Children of the Corn"). This one delivered.The "Quitters, Inc." segment of Cat's Eye was always my favorite because it's so ridiculous. Basically a guy unwittingly hires the mob to help him quit smoking, and their tactics fall into the category of "strong arming." "After the tenth transgression, you become one of the unregenerate two percent, but even they never smoke
We guarantee it."One thing missing from the story is the party scene where Dick is jonesing for a fix so bad that he starts seeing all kinds of psychedelic shit related to cigarettes.
80 pounds is way over the limit Quitters, Inc. finds acceptable, so I'm sure I would've become one of the unregenerate obese had I commissioned their assistance.And here's Mark Twain with some thoughts on smoking in general.
It took a few years, but I guess they wore me down, though I don't think I would've quit had cigarettes still been more affordable.
Mine was smoking related according to these experts.
What happens when the stakes are upped so much that there is no other alternative but to quit?Are you ready to face the consequences of your lack of dedication to a cause?Initially, I wasn't a big fan of the kind of horror Stephen King writes.
A short story but the impact created is no less terrifying than any of the standard Stephen King novels.
And the horror bit aside, it gives out a very strong message on addiction, the significance of quitting and having the strength to choose what's good for you.
'Cause if you don't quit, Lord help you!
A story that inspired the 2007 Anurag Kashyap directed Hindi film "No Smoking", is one hell of a tale that I had been wanting to re-read since the last few years; and at long last it came. This one's one of my ultimate favourites, amongst the lovely bizarre ideas that King ever put forth within his books! :D
Gosh! This was creepy as hell, but somehow made a lot of sense. Rather than asking how far one can go to quit smoking this book asks how much you love your loved ones to quit it. Amazing concept!
This is a short story by Stephen King, which was recently been released in audio format.
It is a typical King story -- dark and twisted with a bit of dark humour – about a man who is a chain-smoker who runs into an old college friend who gives him the business card of a firm called “Quitters, Inc.” who he says helped him to kick the habit.
I found the jazz music playing at the beginning of the book to be a little distracting, making it difficult to hear Eric’s narration until the music faded into the background and then finally ceased.
Chilling but so well done!!! I couldn't stop this story, I had to finish it from the moment I started ^^ I didn't know if I wanted to know where the story was going but at the same time it could have been worse for me if I hadn't finished due to imagination! I recommend it very much!
One of my favourite books by Stephen king. Recommended.
Glad I don't smoke...
القصة دي فعليا جمدت الدم في عروقي .. A real blood freezing Short story
Wow, if this is true in real life... No one would smoke. hah!
My Favorite Stephen King StoryRead by Eric RobertsDuration: 45 minutes.It is true that with all of Stephen King's lengthy tales, my favorites are usually the shorter ones and  Quitters, Inc.  is probably Stephen King's shortest story. It was originally part of his book of short stories called  Night Shift  and was one of three stories in the 1985 movie Cat's Eye.The premise of the story is really cleverly simple. What if you went to a non-smoking clinic that was run by the mafia? Dick Morrison m
Dick Morrison meets an old friend who has kicked the smoking habit who tells him that if he visits Quitters, Inc. they will get him off cigarettes and change his life for the better.
Morrison laughs off the suggestion but eventually does go for an initial consultation out of curiosity about their methods.I cannot divulge any more about this very short story without introducing spoilers except to say that their methods are anything but AMA approved, but they do work.The story is read by Academy award nominated actor Eric Roberts.
Roberts gives an understated performance, like a man telling a story at the end of a bar after a long night.
It was... disturbing. I felt really uncomfortable reading it, mostly because for some reason I could totally visuals it in my head, like I was there, just stood and watched. I really didn't like what I saw.But the fact that I could see it so clearly... wow. Just wow. 4/5 (minus one point for the rabbit)
Good one! This creepy suspense short story about a sure fire method to quit smoking was first published in King's collection, 'Night Shift' [1978]. I found it in the 'Masterpieces of Mystery and Suspense' anthology compiled by Martin H. Greenberg (1988).
Chilling. I don't smoke - Thank GOD! I would have stopped after this story. I read this 20 years ago and I still remember this and how it made my spine tingle. Sinister. Very sinister and also, I think this would work.
Short story. What a great way to quit smoking and to keep weight off while doing it. King sure has a great imagination.
Unlike its short adaptation, I quite enjoyed Quitters, Inc. It was fun and sick.
That was crazy! Talk about a story that will only make me paranoid. At yet this everywhere organization is trying to make people better. It made my whole body shiver.
What a crazy story! Fun to listen to and thrilling at the same time! I was pleasantly surprised since I am not a Stephen King fan.
Mijn eerste (kort)verhaal van Stephen King. Eigenlijk best goed! Een tikkeltje luguber, ik ben niet van plan deze therapie te volgen om van mijn kleine vetjes af te raken. No, nay, never!
This might be the most grusome method of giving up smoking. And yet...the most efficient. 5* from me, audiobook is great.
Прочитать всем кто хочет бросить курить. Ну или вообще, держать свои обещания.
A short story from Night Shift.I really liked this short story!In my opinion, it was an interesting and funny idea. The ending was really nice too and the concept made me think.
Ever tried to quit smoking?
He comes across an old friend who was a smoker as well.
As they are chatting, Dick finds out that his friend has quit smoking, lost weight and feels better than ever by going to this place called Quitters, Inc. After much contiplating, Dick finally decides to go.
He finds out that he has to quit smoking cold turkey and if he doesn't the consequences could be horrific.
Not only does he have to quit smoking but he has to keep his weight down and keep in good shape.
In my opinion, Stephen King's best horror stories are the one's that could actually happen. This story is about going to the extremes to "kick the habit". Without giving too much away, how much is TOO much to risk for the chance to use just one more time.
Entertaining but slight. Thankfully not as horrific as it could have been.
Listened to the audio book during my run today. Great anxiety inducing story.
