https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1052649.The_Berets
I began here at #5 in the series because I was in the military in this period.
After that I plan to read The Generals...then drop back and get The Captains and so on.That's the plan anyway....who knows?Okay that aside this is a good book.
The Green Berets are still in their formative period.
The story revolves around the forming of the Berets, what their job is and what the job will be.A good book, seems like it will be a good series.Annndddd...here I go again, still the idea of a lot of books already published and waiting is nice.
I read a few other types of books between book 3 & 4 and discovered within the first few minutes of Book 4 that there are very few authors like Griffin out there who grab your interest and write so elegantly about the victories and failures of events and people.This is at least the third book of this series that left me with tears of gladness with a pinch of sadness at the end of the book.
I wholeheartedly recommend this series as well as any other writings of W.E.B Griffin.
enjoying the series immensely. Gives a different perspective on the military and the type of people involved with it. Also incredibly well-written and humorous.
The author is an excellent story teller, so the fact that these books are a tad “soap opera-ish” don’t bother me.
There’s plenty of “military” here, just not a lot on the actual battlefield.Without keeping a tally, there are about fifteen or so recurring characters in these books, but we do meet plenty of new ones as well.
It doesn’t take a literary genius to conclude that every time Lowell meets a woman in one of these stories, they end up having sex after a few pages.
The saga continues as the men who have made careers and lives in the United States Army from the 1940s through the 1960s rise through the ranks.
We also see a new generation begin to enter the ranks, including Craig Lowell's young relation, Jeff Craig.
Jeff is drafted and comes to the Army reluctantly, albeit determined to get through his required years of service without drawing attention to himself.
We come to care deeply about these men and their families, making their entrances all the more welcome and their departures that much more painful.
I've read this series several times over the last 20 years or so, and just started it again after a 5+ year layoff.
Reading it again I've forgotten how good of a storyteller Griffin was before writing with his son in his last few books.
While this one sets the stage for each of his other series (i.e., Corps, Vigilantes, Philadelphia police series) with a rich guy who always bucks the system to beat up the bad guy, with this one you have good character developmet and dialogue, and get a history of the Army from WWII through Vietnam - Korea, tank development, army aviation, Green Berets, you name it.This one continues the Lowell saga with a little more development of Craig's cousin, as well as Lowell being offically granted membership as a Green beret.
A good read. I had issues, not with the book or content but with the Audiobook format. It didn’t play reliably in my 2002 Dodge stereo. It’s the first book (of well over 100) that simply didn’t want to play. But I’ve read a few others since that played fine. Another W. E. B. Griffin book in this same series - The Aviators - likewise was extremely difficult to get to play. I would have enjoyed a bit longer story. The series really lends to itself well.
Unfortunately this is book 5 in the series (I only have 5 & 6) and I like to begin from the beginning when reading a series. Well I'm hooked and will now be on a mission to get the rest of the series and dive into them. The characters are down to earth and easy to relate to in certain ways. I can't wait to read more!
VERY GOOD
another terrific book by Griffin. I cannot wait to read the next in this series.
While you can dip in anywhere, the only good way to experience the characters is by starting at book 1, and going forward.
One thing I particularly like about Griffin, which Clancy had, is that his dialogue and terminology rings true to my experience in the US Army.
No, not always: in book 3 or 4, he got a lot of helicopter stuff just wrong, and evidently didn't know it (I'm a former Army aviator).
But it's minor and forgivable.Like someone else said, just read them.
This may be my favorite book in the Brotherhood of War series so far (of which this is book 6).
This was the first book in which there was some real action (sustained real action, anyway) and it turns out that Griffin is actually very good at writing action scenes.
Why he seems to avoid all action in his other books in the series mystifies me.
This is not to say that the book is boring - far from it.
Despite the lack of action, these books are still gripping.
Ah, the saga continues.
Craig Lowell seems to be back in good graces, standing in the wings throughout this novel, waiting for the command that we all hope he earns.
His relationships with women continue their roller coaster evolution.
This book shows Special Forces as a real bastard stepchild within the Army as a whole, respected for their skills but not quite accepted as part of the rank and file organization.
Griffin continues his masterful storytelling, and introduces a couple of new characters.
Craig's nephew plays a big role here, becoming another rich boy soldier in the family.
There is an interesting story around the young lieutenant Ellis, introduced in 'The Colonels'.Excellent book.
The Kennedy Years and Early Vietnam.
Jack Kennedy gives a huge surge to the Green Berets when he personally promotes Paul Hanrahan to BGEN and declares the beret their headgear.
Lowell makes armor proud in his logistical solutions in getting Ft Hood's armor rolling, only to have the Cuban invasion obviated when the Russians pull the missles out of Cuba.
Many foresee the lack of hatred of the enemy as portending doom in Vietnam as the US is pulled into the vortex of large scale military commitment.
Geoff Craig marries Ursula Wagner to cap off his Green Beret training.
I first fell in love with Griffin's series beginning with the Corps Series. Then along came Brotherhood of War. Like The Corps, his characters are engaging and richly colorful. But, the Brotherhood of War, while still very dynamic, seems to focus a little less on the world of war and fighting and more on the culture of the US Army, especially the officer's corps. Reading this series, I was intrigued by the almost country-club like atmosphere Griffin sees in play among the US Army officers and the history behind the Army's culture.
I found this book in a dusty pile of books at an old train station in Al Qaim province. The Marine Corps had a base I would fly into from time to time. After the daily patrols and location visits, I would hit the gym and eventually wind up upstairs of the command building reading this book. I finished the copy one week while I was up there. I would love to find that old book someday. It was only fitting that I read a boo on the Brotherhood of War while I was with my brotherhood at war.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm a knuckle-dragging chauvinistic male who's angry about our modern sensibilities. While I don't think that's true, I do miss a simpler age when we shared a common understanding about words like "honour" and "sacrifice" even though I know those are the dreams of gray beards since the world was flat. Even so, Griffin tells a good tale and I enjoy them.
The Berets (Brotherhood of War #5) by W.E.B. Griffin (Jove 1986) (Fiction - Military). These men were chosen to be the best, and they had been through the most punishing preparation ever given to any group of soldiers. Now they were off to fight a type of war never before undertaken and in a country most westerners had never heard of: Vietnam. My rating: 7/10, finished 1986.
The entire Brotherhood of War series is excellent. Once I read The Lieutenants I couldn't stop until I reached the end of the series. The 9 book series follows a group of characters through their careers in the military from WWII to the Vietnam era.
Nice read for military genre. Though the story starts with a good resounding plot, its looses it steam in the middle and ends sloppily. The characters in the series need deserving justifications. The author have carried the images of the armed forces in a lucid and dramatical manner.
I just can't put these books down. They just keep coming up on my ipod. I like the Lowell character best: he's filthy rich but is engaged by "work" in the Army. Confined to staff puke work, he continues to amaze, then punches the pooch. On to book #6, The Generals
Possibly my favorite book...period.
This series gets better with each book.
Love it
Super. Read the entire series.
Read these years ago, but I read the Whole Series. Great look inside the Army and Army life.
Great
One of the better of the Brotherhood series. I recommend them all!
A reread which shows you the caliber of the book.
They just keep getting better!
