https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7882.On_the_Banks_of_Plum_Creek
With little research and no family to rely on, this new way of life you're trying out, riding high on the hog after that wheat crop comes through, can do to you?
"And by the way, Caroline, Pa doesn't always know what's best, so seriously do not let him leave when it might blizzard.
And be outside for FOUR DAYS with nothing to eat but the children's Christmas candy."All that yelling aside, this is the reason (not Tolkien) that I want to live in a hill.
Sorry, I'm yelling again.Moments I loved: Christmas.
Her descriptions of scenery are gorgeous, of course; but I love the tiny sentences that tell so much, like this one when eight-year-old Mary and seven-year-old Laura are confronted by a wild herd of cattle:Mary was too scared to move.
Ma was so quiet and gentle that she never made any noise, but now the whole house was listening for her.Wilder understood that the impersonal forces of nature are far more frightening than any imagined monsters, because nature doesn't care and so it can't be pleaded with or placated.
As Laura learns when she thinks she can play safely in the creek after a strong rain:The coldness soaked into her.
It would not care.Later, safe at home, Laura reflects:The creek would go down.
This place should be called "Hell Hole", not "Plum Creek". Grasshoppers and blizzards. Another crappy decision by Pa.
If you were a fan of the TV show "Little House on the Prairie," several of the town characters are first introduced in the "Plum Creek" book, including mean Nellie Oleson.
What a brat.)These stories have held up well over time and are still excellent children's books, with one caveat about the blatant racism toward Indians in book 2, the one named "Little House on the Prairie." In that book, the family had moved to Kansas and knowingly settled in what was still Indian Territory (a foolish move, but there's no point arguing about it nearly 150 years later).
The Ingalls Family versus the WorldLaura and her family drove their covered wagon all the way to Minnesota to begin life anew.Their new house?
Ma is not pleased (especially when a cow manages to go through the roof!) but the girls found little ways to be delighted.
There's school - full of new people and learning.
And there's family - all together and happy.Except, the crops are ruined .
And will stay ruined.
Will he be home in time for Christmas?
Will he come home at all?As always, the book is beautifully written and stunningly heartfelt.
The descriptions of the grasshopper swarms are absolutely CHILLING.
No offense, Andrew Smith, but I found these three trillion (an actual estimate) grasshoppers, in a swarm 1800 miles long and 110 miles wide, about three trillion times creepier and more horrific than the maneaters in Grasshopper Jungle, which made me go "ha" and "ew" a lot but didn't give me CHILLS.
Truth is, actually, a LOT stranger than fiction.As phenomenal as the story of the swarm is, what's even more chilling is that 25 years later the Rocky Mountain Locust was extinct.
Scientists are still baffled as to what actually killed them.
This series was a staple of my childhood! It was a pure delight revisiting Plum Creek for a reading challenge this spring (2018). Truly, I now want to revisit each book in the series, from beginning to end. Such grand adventures Laura had! I hope my future children (if God so blesses me) will adore this book (and the rest) as much as I.I was not compensated for my honest review.
There was one change I’m incredibly glad that the show made, and that was the substitution of hail for the plague of grasshoppers that hits the Ingalls farm in the book.
Those grasshoppers were disturbing and stomach-turning to read about, and I’m incredibly grateful that I didn’t have to see them on the show.
However, that plague was morbidly interested to read about, and I couldn’t put the book down because I needed to know what happened and how the family bounced back.
While I’ve enjoyed reading about Laura’s life, I’m becoming more and more thankful with every book read that I don’t live during the pioneer age.
And of course, in the midst of it all, the Ingalls family continued to learn, grow, and be their lovable selves.
Makes RV camping as a way of engaging with the wilderness look a little tame, let's say.Some great and memorable scenes: the leeches dance, the terrifying swarm of grasshoppers, the incredibly intense blizzard, followed by one of those sweet Wilder Christmases with almost nothing to share but oyster stew and no presents but Pa's guitar music and his blizzard survival story.
This is great autobiographical fiction, memoir, really, and a history of 1870's plains life for one (white!) family, a family facing nature as frightening as any Chthulu monster with some grace and music and game-playing and storytelling.
A great family story for a family to read or listen to.
If we disregard racist parts (but they do paint a picture of the time the book was written.
with proper explanation of the context to the children, this could be a great lesson book about prejudice), this was a really fun read.
I feel that, as more the family goes west, the harder their life is and the nature is more dangerous and unpredictable.
The book made me appreciate all the amenities we take for granted.
Not sure if I'll read the next book in the series, but I'm glad I met this family.
Eleanor and I are here to review the latest installment of the Little House series, so Eleanor, I'm going to move it to the "Read" shelf.E: What color shelf is Gwen's?Dad: Oh. It's not the color red.
I'm starting to think about reading a new one.D: Well go ahead.E: They found a house in the dug-out.D: What was that like?E: That had a Hooooole at the end.
I guess we'll find out.E: Like we find out about how(view spoiler)[ MARY GOES BLIND?!?!?!
I want my breakfast."We read "Grasshoppers Walking" when I had a tummy-ache.D: What does that have to do with anything?E: Cause Carrie's like...
This isn't my favorite Laura book but it contains two of the most impressive, and perhaps famous, scenes: Nellie Olson dancing about with leeches on her legs (the absolute best example of "what goes around, comes around" I've ever seen) and the coming of the grasshoppers (nightmare material, that.) This is also the book where the doll Charlotte goes and comes back--in two favorite, love-hate scenes--and the book where Laura gets a fur muff.
It seems fitting, then, that as an adult I moved to Missouri, where Laura lived when she wrote the set.My favorite book was probably always Little Town on the Prairie and my least favorite was definitely The Long Winter.
I loved reading this book while camping.
I loved following Laura and Mary around their underground house, picking up plums and playing in the creek.
I loved feeling happy for them when they made a button garland for Carrie's Christmas, or when they got a new cow.
It was such an easy, lovely book to follow and I put it down with a happy sigh of contentment when I finished.
Classics like that are not to be missed; there is a special feel to the Little House books that is unique to them, and everyone should experience it.
The bit where Ma makes Laura give the baby visiting her doll to take home and the other mother allows her kid to take it, considering how few and far between any toys are - that bit killed me. How fucking mean. Also, this family has horrible luck with farming. I mean, it feels a bit like maybe they aren’t very good at it either, but still. Grasshoppers the first year is rough.
this is maria i am lisas daughter.i think the book was graet.my favrit part is when laura allmost drowns on the footbrige.the end was very exsiting whith the blizerds.i want to read the next book about this family.
(hide spoiler)]The girls are growing up in this, and Laura especially tests her boundaries a bit more than in the previous books.
Sometimes Mary and Laura are downright naughty, but I think that makes the stories more realistic...and of course they usually come to see the consequences of their actions.
(hide spoiler)]I loved the attention to detail (everything from Ma opening a letter with a hairpin to the joy accompanying a long-anticipated rain), the description, and emotion that just sweeps you into this family's life in such a personal way.
He dragged the family away from their relatives in Wisconsin where they had a home, to Indian country.
When, finally, Papa builds a home on credit, their wheat gets eaten up by the locusts for 2 seasons and he has to walk 200-300 miles away each year to get work laboring on other farms in order to keep the family alive.
If I had read just the Ingalls' story, I would think that was just how everyone lived at that time.
But, Alamonzo's family didn't live like that.
I think it had a lot to do with crazy Papa and his wild ways.
I couldn't even tell you what the cover illustration was on this one (although I'm sure it was the above) as it has been gone for so very long.
A few years ago, my Book Club read The Children's Blizzard, which talked about the settling of the Midwest by the mostly Scandinavian immigrants and how harsh the land was, and really unsuitable for homesteading.
While at the time, I thought of The Long Winterthis book illustrates the point as well.
When they first arrive, Mr. Nelson is heading west and trades his dugout and land for their ponies and in a moment of shocking hubris, Pa wonders why he planted so few crops.
A wonderful re-read.
This one has some of the most memorable moments in the Little House series: the little dugout house, the cow putting his foot through the roof, leeches in the creek, locusts, doing chores by following a rope between the house and barn in a blizzard.....
all those moments of life in a pioneering era of hardship and pure heart.
Despite knowing how these stories turn out, I still get anxious for Pa coming home in the storm, or when trying to put out a prairie fire, and get grossed out by the leeches, cheer for Laura in her troubles with Nellie Oleson, and long to see the beautiful sunsets and sunrises described.
Aside from Pa's failures to produce the promised wheat crops (he sure talks a helluva game about this in this book) and his need to "walk 300 miles" to find a job, this book features the Ingalls family staying in one place the entire book. No worries, though. We know how irritating the Norwegians are, how the church folks can't sing in tune, and how the grasshoppers are the root of all evil. Also, Laura is a vindictive little bitch toward one of her classmates and it was kind of fantastic to read.
This is one of my favorites in the series--it's just so exciting! The grasshoppers, Pa in the storm, Nellie Oleson (boooo!), Christmas at church, leeches in the creek...so many fun and interesting and sad and scary and happy things happen in this one.
I'll never be too old for reading one of Laura Ingalls' books. The utter simplicity which characterizes them, the mouth watering description of their sumptuous repasts with interludes of wise thoughts and mischiefs makes it one of my favorite books to go to. The best part is that you can read it at any age and anytime you read it again, it gives you fresh perspectives to ponder over.
This was the first book I read of the series because we lived in Plum Borough (by Pittsburgh, PA) and yes, there was a Plum Creek. My aunt gave it to my sister for her birthday way back when.
My gosh, what didn't I learn about real history from these books.
back then you could cite me a line and I knew which book it came from, who said it and in what circumstance!
Snow so deep Pa had to run a rope from the cabin door to the barn door, so not to get lost in the blizzards in winter, when he went to see to the animals!
Wasn't I amazed when "Women's Music" finally came along, and women were singing those songs, ditties women sang back then!
it grew in me a lifetime love of history, people's history, not just names and dates and wars.
I love these books!
I simply cannot fathom doing the things that they did, nor weathering the storms that they did - quite literally.
You would think that their awareness of the fragility of life would be even more pronounced than ours since we live in a bubble of perceived safety.After reading about the grasshopper plagues that they lived through (a miracle when you think of the impact not just on their crops, but their livestock and every other means of sustenance) I decided to look up some info on what happened and when and why it doesn't happen anymore.
Read until they were dog-eared, this series has to be one of my childhood favorites.
A story about a young girl growing up on the frontier, it was so popular they made it into a T.V. series even though the series didn't do it justice.
When you're there in Laura's life so much that you can feel her fear when in trouble, or you can taste the penny candy on Christmas, that's a story.
Note: Reading again with my son, what a joy to see him loving these too!
We've even started watching the tv series along with the reading!ClassicsDefined.com
This one is all about making the prairie into a home, being swamped with grasshoppers and surviving the winter.I am finding that the re-reading of these as an adult reveals such a different picture.
Charles and Caroline leave their hard won cabin on the prairie to move to a sod house cut into the banks of a creek.
Not only that but they leave millions of eggs so that the following year literally millions of grasshoppers hatch out again and so there is no point in planting a crop.
Charles has to leave his home to find work to feed the family - but so do all the other farmers in the area.
The chapter length was perfect for reading out loud to my kids and most chapters read like its own little adventure.
Parts of the book made us laugh out loud.
We all enjoyed the stories from a simpler time, a time when people didn't have so much stuff and a pair of shoes where cherished.
This had fun stories about living at the creek, going to school for the first time, grasshoppers destroying crops, dangerous fires, blizzards and, yes, we get to meet Nellie Oleson for the first time in this book:DIf you are interested in reading a Laura Ingalls Wilder book and only want to read one.....
The whole time I was reading this book, I kept feeling like I had read it before.
I kept reading, and I kept telling myself what was going to happen next, and it finally dawned on me, I had recently re-read the book - I just didn't update goodreads with the info, or bother to write a review!
I love the imagery that Ingalls uses throughout the book to describe the scenes, and I love how Pa does everything he can to take care of the family, even leave them for months.
