https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40067.Thunderstruck
First off, while this is an interesting and engaging story, it is not the top-notch book that Devil in the White City was.
Here, Larson tells parallel tales of Guglielmo Marconi, inventor of the wireless, and Hawley Crippen, a relative nobody who gained infamy by doing away with his wife.
But, while Crippen and his pursuit by Scotland Yard may have represented the 1910 predecessor to helicopters trailing the white Bronco, Crippen seems such a minor presence as to stand out purely as literary device by which Larson can tell us about the time.
(I'm sure more scientific minded people would enjoy the aspects that I didn't.) In the end, I ended up quite disliking Marconi.
Marconi, as is sometimes the case, has the brilliant mind, but lacks the social astuteness necessary for having a happy and truly successful life, no matter what invention/discovery he has made for society: He took credit for many things which others had truly done and delved himself completely in his work without regard for his family or others around him.As far as Crippen, Elmore, and Le Neve are concerned, the half of the book dedicated to their story fascinated me.
In classic Erik Larson style,  Thunderstruck  is told through parallel lives and events. In this case, more so than in The Devil in the White City, it's not immediately evident how the elements will come to intertwine.Guglielmo Marconi (below) was smart, contributed to society in the end, blah, blah, blah, but he was also kind of a jerk (that's my opinion, not expressly stated in the book). Larson chalks it up to a lack of social skills, which may be true, but it doesn't mean I have to forgive h
Marconi (an entrepreneur, more so than he was a scientist, which he, ironically, noted in his acceptance speech for the Nobel Prize in Physics) was not on board with key components of this like communality and letting skeptics in on the experiments.On the other side of town (or the ocean, depending on the day), our second story line involves a homeopath, an aspiring actress/singer (lacking in the skill department - think American Idol outtakes), and, of course, a mistress.
The Author's Note says that the murder case in this book so captivated Alfred Hitchcock that he worked elements of it into Rear Window (and The Rope).
In the same Author's Note mentioned above, he also says, "I ask readers to forgive my passion for digression.
l as a reader of his books know by now that you take the good with the bad and you inevitably come out of the experience so much more the wiser and more knowledgeable.
And I'm sure there are readers who prefer the Marconi chapters over the murder investigation, so something for everyone.
There's a certain style of storytelling which I have an affinity for, both in terms of telling stories myself and listening to them (or reading them).
(This fact was hard to miss - Larson acknowledges it and half-apologizes for it in the introduction to the book.) But, the digressions were interesting.
In keeping with my suddenly burgeoning interest in historical non-fiction, I picked this book up because I thought a story about the invention and spread of wireless telegraphy would be interesting.
But it's a thin one, too, so Larson fleshes things out with numerous asides, digressions, tangents and trivia.
Thunderstruck, by Erik Larson is a non fiction account of the infamous murder of Belle Elmore by her husband, Hawley Crippen, and the story of Guglielmo Marconi,the inventor of wireless telegraphy.
But, man, this guy was one cool customer all the way to the bitter end.I am not a big fan of non-fiction history, because while it can be interesting, it is usually very dry.
Larson's style is to write a few chapters about the invention and those involved with that, then he switched to the Crippen and what was happening with him.
Larson's books read like a novel making history seem very interesting and anything but dry.
Unfortunately, I was so weighed down in details of Marconi and his electrical engineering project, I could barely keep my head above water.
There was simply too much detail when describing Marconi's work towards engineering wireless.
Although an electrical engineer or any person interested in early communication methods might find this one engaging, it was too much for me.I will not let this book deter me from reading other Erik Larson books.
I have heard good thing about In the Garden of Beasts: Love, Terror, and an American Family in Hitler's Berlin and am looking forward to reading that one.
Larson is rapidly becoming one of my favorite writers. The Devil in the White City, Dead Wake, and now Thunderstruck, serve as prime examples of compelling narrative nonfiction.
So yeah, the experience of listening to this audio book was, for me, both familiar and comfortable.And the story of the demure, unassuming patent medicine salesman Crippen and his voluptuous, volatile wife is a fascinating one, more than enough to keep the engine humming.
Larson is a great storyteller and is particularly good at sniffing out historical events that would make for accessible, addictive reading.
I especially recommend The Devil in the White City: Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America--so good!More book recommendations by me at www.readingwithhippos.com
In this case, it's the (at the time) notorious case of Dr. Crippen, who murdered his wife, embraced by the larger story of the development of the wireless telegraph.
It's a story of the worm that turns, and you can take your pick whether his mild exterior hid the soul of a psychopath or whether he just--snapped.Larson is a darn good storyteller, and although I felt my attention flagging just a little in the middle of the book, on the whole I found both tales entertaining.
I'd recommend Thunderstruck to readers who like a good true-life yarn.*If you ever get the chance to hear Larson speak, take it.
Onvan : Thunderstruck - Nevisande : Erik Larson - ISBN : 1400080665 - ISBN13 : 9781400080663 - Dar 463 Safhe - Saal e Chap : 2006
Rot in peace.Then, at the precise opposite end of the emotional spectrum, lies the once-infamous, now largely forgotten, Dr. Hawley Crippen, who murdered his termagant of a wife (who *richly* deserved killing, being a female Marconi sans genius), so he could be with his little light-o-love.
I know how the book ends before I pick it up, but I find myself wanting Crippen to get away with it and pulling for him and Ethel to make it to Canada *this time*.They don't.
It's too big to swallow whole, and half the fun is setting the book down and savoring the images of this vanished world.
Although it isn't as compelling as either his The Devil in the White City: Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America or Dead Wake: The Last Crossing of the Lusitania, this is an interesting story.
From the beginning, we understand why Larson chose to tell these stories in the same volume.
B. Priestley, himself a scion of the Edwardian age, “something was happening for the first time in world history.”I found the story of Marconi developing wireless telegraphy fascinating.
The murder story was far less interesting to me.
Still, it was an interesting read and I'll always be open to others by Erik Larson.
At times this book was creepy and long in the tooth, by the end however, Larson wrapped up all the threads into a tidy tale. The last third quarter was exceptionally entertaining, bringing up the overall score to a solid four stars. History is sparkling with untold stories, and Larson has quite the knack for illuminating them. [Still, this book is not quite as good as Devil in the White City and Dead Wake.]
The second is the story of Dr. Hawley Harvey Crippen, homeopathic doctor and one of the most notorious murderers in British history.
The story of Marconi and the development of wireless telegraphy was interesting.
Certainly not as interesting as the story of Dr. Crippen.Hawley Harvey Crippen was a doctor in homeopathic medicine.
Crippen and Le Neve were the subject of people on both sides of the Atlantic and they were oblivious.
It wasn't until the end of the book that I read that he indeed used this event as a basis for several of his movies and television series.I have found Erik Larson's books to be very enjoyable.
I suppose that we needed to know that Crippen had a younger, estranged son, that lived in California, because it came into play later, but the early years really didn’t need to take up a quarter of the book.Then, at about the half way mark, after not listening to the audiobook for a month or two, I got interested.
Marconi himself was too dedicated and immersed in his work, and too headstrong, to be really interesting on his own.The Crippen story, on the other hand, was fascinating too me.
Another brilliant, engrossing true-life novel, completely with two independent yet seamlessly interwoven story lines that he manages to treat equitably through and through.This book is a compelling journey of one man into the annals of scientific history (Marconi) and another into the depths of criminality (Crippen).
It's an excellent read for any student of human nature, and the complicated relationships that are affected by it.The only minor quibble I have is the subplot about the supernatural.
It does help somewhat to explain the rivalry between the two, but the elaboration seemed unecessary when maybe a paragraph would have done.Other than that, an excellent, evenly-paced read that I managed to down in about 36 hours, all told.
After reading Devil in the White City (one of my favorite books of all time), I was very excited to read this book.
I really had to force my way through this book.
Devil in the White City was much more balanced.
Although maybe it just felt that way because the world's fair chapters were just as interesting as the serial killer chapters.
I enjoy how he ties a famous event to a tale of murder that was going on at the same time.
I n Thunderstruck, I just didn't enjoy the chapters about Marconi.
I've read three of Larson's books now, enjoying each of them but most particularly this one and Devil in the White City, both of which interweave tales told in short, often cliff-hanging, chapters--an effective means of capturing the reader's attention. Part murder mystery, part early history of radio, it's a real page turner.
This book takes a similar tack, juxtaposing Guglielmo Marconi's obsession to master wireless communication with the gentle, quiet Hawley Crippen's murder of his wife.
. .the intersection of two wildly disparate stories, whose collision on [Kendall's:] ship in this time, the end of the Edwardian era, would exert influence on the world for the century to come." For some, the wandering back and forth between the stories of Marconi's quest to master wireless communication and the up and down marriage of Hawley Crippen with Belle Elmore (as she eventually became known) might be confusing and a "turn off." But if the reader stick with the narrative, it will be well worthwhile.

With incredible deftness, Larson weaves together the stories of an Italian scientist and inventor and a British hack physician and hapless lover.
The setting is Europe in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, a time that saw Edwardian indulgences and a fascination with mysticism and magic dissolving before the advances in science, technology, and the inevitable march toward the first World War. This book is a lesson in history, an examination of the business and politics of technology and invention, a murder mystery, and an immensely satisfying thriller.
An outstanding read.
Erick Larson is great at making true stories read like fiction. This book weaves two stories, one of a socialite murdered and the other of the invention of the wireless telegraph. Both stories are rich with period details. I loved each story on it's own but it was fascinating how they came together.
It's basically two stories that eventually come together in an interesting way.
His wife, Belle is a failed aspiring opera singer, failed variety performer and spender of much of Crippen's money, has made his life miserable.
He is "the kindest of men" who eventually finds a new love.
Belle suddenly disappears, and Crippen and his new love eventually leave town, with the police looking for them.
The book alternates between Marconi's story and Crippen's story.
Marconi's story is filled with a lot of technical information that can be a bit overwhelming.
Crippen's story is more interesting, and in some ways sadder, even though he is a murderer.
We are manipulated into sympathizing with Crippen and perhaps even condoning his actions in the name of forbidden Love.I suspect bullshit.After listening to pro-life Republicans argue against both the credulity and seriousness of accusations that Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh tried to rape a 15 year old girl in his youth, I and many other women are painfully aware of how masterfully many men are at weaving narratives to justify acts of violence against women.
Maybe Larson is like so many other men who don’t see women as fully human (especially older, fatter, less submissive women) and viewed Belle through that lens of WANTING her to be the villain.
The book covers a lot of Marconi building bigger more powerful towers, he was having trouble staying ahead of the push by other inventors who were also trying to unveil the magic of going wireless.
Having read a few books on Nikola Tesla who was also pushing for wireless it was interesting to see the two different approaches of the men.
Being a mild man his wife Belle was the one who ran the show.
As Marconi pushed for transatlantic wireless communication, Crippen and Ethel (the typist) also set out across the Atlantic.
Thunderstruck, written by Erik Larson, tells the story of two men--Hawley Crippen, a hopeless romantic who falls in love with a woman that craves the thrill of trouble; and Guglielmo Marconi, a scientist researching means of communication who strays away from normality and attempts methods pertaining to the supernatural.
In Thunderstruck, Erik Larson tells the story of Hawley Crippen, a very unlikely murder.
Crippen hopelessly falls in love with Cora Turner, a young, vivacious woman who comes from a past of eternal sin.
This story of a true love and murder is full of surprises and misadventures that will almost always succeed to satisfy your historical book fetishes.
3.5*** Larson brings his talent for writing a page-turning non-fiction work to bear on the case of Dr H H Crippen, who was fleeing England with his mistress, after being questioned in the disappearance of his wife.
Here he is trying to tell two very different stories – the murderer’s tale (a suspenseful, gruesome story), and the story of how Marconi came to be credited with inventing wireless communication (including the political, financial and personal difficulties).
I liked the same level of detail in Isaac's Storm … but that book was telling just one story.
It tries to tell two stories -- the one of Guglielmo Marconi, who invented long-distance radiotelegraphy, and that of "Doctor" Hawley Crippen, patent-medicine developer and (spoilers): husband to a wife who disappeared, leaving him with only patchwork and unbelievable stories about what happened to her.
(Spoilers): The "plot" as such culminates when Marconi's invention was used by Scotland Yard to track Crippen some years later on a Transatlantic voyage, leading to his arrest.
Author Erik Larson tries to imply a linkage between these two stories, and relates them in alternating chapters, but for much of the book they are separated by eight or nine years in time (1901-2 and 1910).
3.75 starsThere are two "stories" (though this is nonfiction) happening in this book.
In one story, Guglielmo Marconi is working on inventing wireless communication and wants to make it work across the Atlantic Ocean.
It read more like a novel than nonfiction.
I did find Crippen's story slightly more interesting than Marconi's, but I expected that, and Marconi was still more interesting than I expected (it may have helped that I've been to Signal Hill in St. John's, Nfld, where Marconi received the first wireless signal).
