https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44170.The_Looking_Glass_Wars
So I'm a little late coming to this, as it's been out for a while, but I enjoyed his alternate take on the Alice in Wonderland story. The problem with doing a new treatment of such a classic tale is that you will have the purists up in arms, but I thought the story had a lot to recommend it. I found Alyss a believable character and who wouldn't like Hatter Madigan? I want his backpack.
(Remember, this book takes place in (the equivalent of) the 1850s-1860s.) Are we supposed to think he's witty in quoting a kind of played out line of dialogue he has no way of knowing?
(I also have the sense he may be supposed to be a little something for the ladies, but once again, this is my reading of a book that makes no damn sense, and hell if I can figure out why or how, unless we're just supposed to remember that quiet, tough guys generally = James Dean or Dirty Harry.)Dayenu.The worst thing Mr. Beddor could think of about Jack of Diamonds was to give him a big butt?
If I shut off the critical parts of my brain and just enjoyed the book as pure entertainment I probably would have given this book four stars and if it were a movie I probably would have sat through it and had no complaints, but then most of the movies I see these days are not ones that people would say are, um what's the word?
This book is terrible.In theory, I like it. The idea behind it intrigues me, but the reality is that it is just so badly written. Good idea, very poor execution! Cliche characters! Stupid names! A writing style so awful it was almost physically painful to read!Yet I'll probably read the sequel (sequels?) when it comes out. Clearly, I've learned nothing from reading this book.
I read Alice (Wonderland and Looking Glass) this past semester for a children's lit class so it was cool to approach this book with those stories so recently re-impressed on my mind.
The other main plot is one that remains strangely true to the original Alice...the heart of that plot being Alyss' struggle for personal identity.
However, the reactions of Redd and her group made it feel like it was a quick trip...couple that with the way Alyss and company actually approach, and it gets even shorter.So time was off-putting to me.DIALOGThe dialog was generally really very, very good.
Let me count the ways...First before I start, I don't want to hear any of your crap about this book.
just wanted to make that clear ok?Reasons why I'm reading this book again:-The way Beddor handles the story is creative.I don't want to hear that "Alice is the WHOLE WORLD HOW CAN HE DESTROY A SUPERB CLASSIC!!!" Now, I do love Alice in Wonderland dearly.
(By the way Dodge haters,if I was in Dodge's place, I would go and battle the Cat.)Frank Beddor gives these fairy tale characters a life.
That's all a character asks for.-The writing is really goodAgain, no crap.
In this book, writing helps the characters and plot move.
In a nutshell: Fantastic idea, horribly executed.The writing did nothing for it.
I almost never start on an author's writing style but in this case, it was a significant factor in how I viewed the book.
When you can't even cast an opinion on a character...oooh, well, that just goes to show that you weren't shown much.
It was mostly in the dialog that I lost the characters.
Even with the sometimes skimpy writing, dialog can pick up the slack.
But for readers who have a preference for more complex, lyrical writing that must be read inwardly, I don't recommend this book to you.I gave it a B- because I respect the idea so much.
I was a little bit disappointed by this book, not gonna lie. The idea was SO interesting and had so much potential! It’s definitely one of the most original Alice retellings I’ve read, it was unique and I loved it! But what left me feeling disappointed was how juvenile the writing was. I know it’s classified as a YA novel but at times it felt like I was reading a children’s book, that’s how juvenile the writing felt to me.
Oh, by gosh by golly I loved this book. It's Alice in Wonderland on crack! Fabulous!
Audiobook #186
1 April 2015 Buddy Read with Figgy!4-4.5 starsAgain, got distracted by loads of good books over the course of the month of April and have only just now gotten to finish this, but I did enjoy it very much. The story itself was detailed and engaging, the characters all very interesting in their reimaginings (The Cat in particular), and the whole thing just came across as so utterly creative. This is another book to add to my list of books that will always remind me of the infinite potential and strength of imagination, and for that it's beautiful.
She's more interested in getting out of the palace with her friend from the royal guard, Dodge Andrews, and getting into a bit of trouble.But when her ostricized aunt Redd storms the castle and engages her mother, Genevieve, in a battle of imaginations, Alyss must run for her life.
Along with Hatter Madigan, the dark, silent captain of the Queen's bodyguards, Alyss jumps into the Pool of Tears and is carried to a land far away, where she meets a young and uninspired writer who thinks that her stories of Wonderland are quite extraordinary.I feel like I should expound on Hatter Madigan, as he totally made this book for me.Hatter Madigan wears a long black trenchcoat, with a rucksack on his back, silver wristbands, and a high top hat that he never takes off, unless absolutely necessary.
This is sort of strange, since the subject matter and characters basically hold their own, without the sometimes ridiculous embellisments of the author.Some of the dialogue in the story is also sort of grating, especially most of the stuff Redd says, though this may be because the dialogue in Alice in Wonderland is somewhat over the top.
I am sort of obsessed with dystopian societies, so I am probably judging this too harshly.Overall, I would reccommend this book, if only because it is a good story that introduces an interesting take on Alice in Wonderland.
It doesn't get in too deep with character development but there's still enough depth that I grew attached to everyone and I was soon on the edge of my seat:).I loved the concept/mythology of Mr Beddor's Wonderland and White/Black Imagination, the Looking Glass Maze.
Redd's army and inventions were pretty cool too, my favorite of them was the Glass Eyes.
My new book crush haha.He reminded me of Black Widow in regards to his fighting prowess, that Hat weapon and wrist blades of his *thumbs up * :-D It is slow in a couple spots but it picked back up again before too long.
A neat spin of "Alice in Wonderland." Yet unique in its own right.
This story revolves around Alys (princess of Wonderland) who escapes to Earth to avoid being murdered by her Aunt Redd and the Cat assassin.
Back in Wonderland there is also Dodge, who was the son of a royal guardsmen and is now a mercenary fighting the evil Redd.
There are several other characters that are based off the original story but Beddor has added his own twists to them.
The story is easy to read, and moves at a good pace (mostly at least).
I really enjoyed this alternative story of Alice in Wonderland or may I say Alyss.
It was lovely spending time reading this book.
This is my second time reading it.
The first time I was still in high school and I couldn't remember all the details so, I embarked on the Alyss journey once again.
To me this was the book that I enjoyed on these cold, winter nights and it was a great company that awakened my imagination.
I lived through Alyss's narration the adventure and the tiny bit love story, and overall I had a wonderful time.
Imagination is power...There are so many Alice retellings that i didnt expect much but I throughly enjoy it! The characters were all unique and new yet had the same Alice vibes that we all know and love. I also really liked the Alyss isnt like Alice but the princess of wonderland. It was very unique and an excellent read! I really enjoyed the details, not only the writing but the visuals. All the little details on the pages and the colored pictures in the middle made the story come to life even more!
There is a website where you can play games related to the book, or buy a CD of atmospheric music to listen to while you read.
There are lots of talking and fighting chessmen in the book, but we're never told exactly what that means.
They wield it like some type of gun, and I would imagine that it generates orbs, but apparently it just shoots orb generators.
Great job, you wacky author you.And let's talk about Redd and Alyss' imagination powers.
For example one character has a fat butt, and the book just goes on and on about this like I'm supposed to be giggling ever time it is mentioned.
Πολύ αγαπημένο μου βιβλίο!Έχω μία ιδιαίτερη αδυναμία στην "Αλίκη στη Χώρα των Θαυμάτων",νιώθω ένα πε
I'm not exactly a picky reader or rater, but to be added to my favorites shelf, a book has to be pretty damn special.
To help you decide if this book is for you, ask yourself the following:Do you love Alice in Wonderland?
(Yes)Do you love a good, clean, real romance between childhood friends?
(Of course you do!)Do you love the Victorian era?
(Naturally)Do you like it when a book makes you want to curl up in the fetal position and bawl your eyes out?
(Absolutely)If you answered yes to any of the above, then go forth and get this book!
While the premise may have been intriguing, the execution was not handled well.The author tried to create something completely new, while also trying to keep the main characters that were so beloved in Alice in Wonderland.
I couldn't understand the author's decision to change the spelling of her name, other than it being a "clever ploy" to get the reader's attention.
Although intriguing, it wasn't explained enough, and it also seemed like a means for the main characters to do whatever they wanted with little to no challenge.
When the evil Red Queen, Queen Genevieve's sister, attacks the palace with her army of card soldiers, Alice - or Alyss - is sent via the Pool of Tears tunnel to a parallel world - ours, but during the life-time of Lewis Carroll, by the Queen's faithful bodyguard Hatter Madigan (you know him), to keep her safe until things have calmed down.
Heads-off-screaming Queen Redd is fun and the Diamond Prince's deflated bottom a nice thing to visualize.Tina, please assign another book to me.
I didn't know I'd squeal with excitment when Hatter Madigan or any other characters supporting White Imagination were mentioned.In short, I didn't know how amazing this book would be.Alyss Heart is seven years old when the fantastic story begins, and separated from her parents when her murderous aunt Redd attacks the Heart Palace, wanting the crown for herself.
Hatter spends 13 years searching the world for her, detirmined to find her so they can return to Wonderland and battle Redd for her rightful place as the Queen of Hearts.Alyss, meanwhile, is told her stories of Wonderland are rubbish, but she knows better...Right?Will Hatter and Alyss find each other, and can she succed in battling her evil aunt Redd?
Another victim of the great concept, crummy execution flop.Beddor gives us flimsy, uninteresting characters on a backdrop he's obviously fleshed out in his own mind to the point of an obsessive teenaged boy writing Epic Fantasy (*cough*), and he's so concerned that you envision his world exactly as he does that he spends sentence after dull, plodding sentence describing battles and contraptions in minute detail.
Or else he really just isn't that great a writer.
What if being queen endowed the ruler with unfathomable powers of imagination that can be used for good or bad?
That's the plot of this book.I liked how Alice in Wonderland is treated as a real story that was wrongly interpreted.
Alyss is taken by her bodyguard (when Wonderland falls to Queen Redd's assault) to Victorian England through a magical fountain to save her life.
She makes a lot of people miserable, even when she doesn't kill them.I liked how Beddor takes the story of Alice and Wonderland and creates his own series around it.
Full review on my blog, the Snark Theater.The book is pretty lackluster in terms of character development, but it's really the only flaw I can give it. The story does otherwise an excellent job of establishing the world, and connecting it to our own.And the world of Wonderland is absolutely amazing. The book makes it a world of imagination, which even inspires the imaginary of all other worlds—and it just…fits. It fits with the story, and it fits with the mythos of Wonderland in general, and I love it. This is how you do adaptation.Great book, definitely do recommend.
It's an imaginative retelling of Alice In Wonderland, it's somewhere between 3 stars to 3.5 stars. I love the world building, the action scenes are nice and the plots keep me entertaining for the whole time. But I found almost all of the characters have no development and it's quite boring for the good guys to be always good and the villains to have no other purpose nor personality outside of being power-crazed, sadistic and well, just plain evil. Plus the Good vs. Evil theme is a bit too simple-minded to my liking.
it's dark but good.
Beddor reimagines the children’s classic as non-fiction: Alyss Hart, a Wonderlander, comes to Earth in a time of crisis (her evil aunt Redd has attacked Wonderland in her quest to become the Queen of Hearts), and she finds herself in a far different reality.
But all is not right in Wonderland, and the two worlds Alyss knows are about to collide.For much of this book, I was fairly indifferent.
Perhaps the biggest was his choice of the starting age for Alyss, combined with the love interest in Dodge.
And it manages to keep that pace throughout the entire book.This might be an Alice in wonderland re-imagining but it’s wholly unique.
but at its heart, it’s a story about the triumph of good over evil and loyalty and a coming of age story and a story about lost love and how people who change never really become the same ever again.Alyss Heart is the future queen of wonderland.
Only finding comfort when a man approaches her to tell her story in a book.
a book that he changes, twists and defiles so much that is a gross bastardization of the true story that Alyss told.
