https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15746.One_Door_Away_from_Heaven
DNF @ page 159.I normally do not give ratings and in-depth reviews to titles I do not wish to finish, but this one is remarkable in so many ways that I could not ignore placing a detailed warning up on Goodreads.If you're not well-versed in Dean Koontz, you might actually finish this book.
This is the most overwritten Koontz book I've read.
Which brings me to my next issue.The book jumps back and forth between past tense and present tense.
Holy shit on a bed of fuckery, Batman, this book is filled with every overused Koontz character known to science.
This one author has used the same tired tropes and characters to write a bajillion books about the same old shit.
I like this book it's one of my favorite Koontz books.
As I said a favorite among Koontz's work for me...I've read it several times.What else can I say?
Not much without spoilers.
I mean what other book offers shape changing aliens, a dangerous young mutant, a psychopathic serial killer, an insane drug addict, someone who can't tell the difference in their own memories and the old movies they've seen, a P.I., alien bounty hunters, a hoarder,....and Amazons?
The book has laughter, pathos, action, and storytelling, not to mention an actual plot and the above mentioned fully formed characters.
One Door Away From Heaven (2001) - spoilers...but do you really want to read it ?This is basically a 700 page long borefest - formulaic characters, formulaic stories, formulaic preaching (The goodness of dogs and the evil of bioethics)To kick off this brillian review, I'll start with the characters - they are of course scripted, which makes them unrealistic and idiotic and renders the reader unable to feel anything for them - do you care for a bunch of dolls running around ?There's a girl, Leilani Klonk(yes, yes).
I have the phrase "One Door Away from Heaven" tattooed on my left arm.
One Door Away From Heaven is in my TOP FIVE of favorite books by Dean Koontz.
Changing the way you live means changing how you think.
Changing how you think means changing what you believe about life."Nevertheless, for reasons that she could not understand, every aspect of this day - the spangled sunshine, the heat, the rumble of the distant freeway traffic, the fragrances of cut grass and sweat-soured coconut oil, three yellow butterflies as bright as gift-box bows - suddenly seemed full of meaning, mystery, and moment.
This increasingly influential and strongly Darwinian school of thought defines everyone in terms of either their usefulness or their "quality of life" and taken to its logical extreme is perfectly fine with killing off anyone who doesn't fit the criteria - beginning, end, or even middle of life - so as to increase the "net level of happieness" in the world.
Anyway, the bad guy is a disciple of this school.As I neared the end of the book I started to wonder anew whether Koontz himself is a follower of any orthodox branch of Christianity.
That's a bit long to read and realize nothing much has happened and that you stopped wishing that something would...So, quite close to half of this rather long book, we are told three different stories with no converging in sight.
The character who ruined my last attempt (and made this book stay untouched on a second row in my bookshelf for years); the extremely good-and-not-afraid-to-come-out-and-say-so hero (I met him in Seize the Night) had mercifully enough not showed his sincere and somber face up until this page count, though.
They only have two carts of books for about 150 inmates.
On top of that, most prisoners—myself included—keep books from these two carts in their rooms so they're available when we finish the book we're currently reading.
One day during breakfast, I glanced at the cart and saw a Koontz book on there that looked brand new.
Well, I picked it up and moved it to my collection at my cell, then got back in the breakfast line.
The other inmates thought I was anti-social because I just read all the time.
I read this when I was in my early teens and loved anything vaguely horror/thriller-like.
And I LOVED Dean Koontz.
Until I read this book.
If a character is ever cruel to one you can be sure that they won't be around long before some kind of terrible justice befalls them.
I like dogs but he seriously takes it too far.
That is the only thing I can say of interest about this book as it is long-winded, badly written and has one dimensional characters you couldn't care about even if you tried really hard.
Koontz does that weird thing he did for a while where he had people with disabilities either physical or mental into super special people which felt wrong in a way.
"One Door Away from Heaven" is about Michelina (Micky) Bellsong a woman with a mysterious past who does what she can to save a young girl she meets.
I think I have said this before, Koontz cannot write children.
I don't think that Koontz gets how preachy his books come across and how off-putting it is to read some of his works.
The bad people probably watch exploitation movies, listen to heavy metal and love cats, and they go to or teach at liberal universities.
I must confess to having not really enjoyed my university bio-ethics class and that I probably spent most of it talking to girls or reading novels, but I feel that he's indirectly doing my poor professor an injustice and that this really wasn't the gist at all.
He has no excuse though; now a million shrill housewives and bored truck drivers will be going around yelling about bio-ethics, thinking that's really what it's all about and Mr. Koontz has got it pegged!These mainstream "genre" books are funny.
In the end, though, neither criticism matters, because what Koontz has written succeeds on its own terms as a story of unexpected psychological depth.
Other writers would have fumbled a novel ambitious enough to draw on a cast that diverse, but Koontz wrote "One Door Away From Heaven" knowing exactly what he wanted to say about what it means to be human.
As a life-affirming broadside against utilitarian ethics and a suspense novel with extra-terrestrial overtones, "One Door Away from Heaven" wins loud huzzahs from this reader.
Keep reading and (taken from page 133 of this amazing tale) you learn the town is suffering a major power failure, and the chapter is closed with words of stunning beauty and a feeling of impending doom: "A butterfly flutter of light, a sibilant sputter, a serpent of smoke rising lazily from the black stump of a dead wick: One of the three candles burned out, and darkness eagerly pulled its chair a little closer to the table." Needless to say, i like this book.
Second of three phrase-titled books, it’s also a transitional story, taking themes and styles from older Koontz novels, adding a religious undertone and introducing some techniques he’ll continue to apply for his high concept stories.When recently arrived in the neighborhood Leilani Klonk tells her life story to Micky Bellsong, the latter at first shrugs it all off as an elaborate joke, but soon the seriousness of the situation hits her.
While creating an urgency in the story which he’ll later apply to his high concept stories, Koontz still takes the time to develop the characters and elaborate on the situations in order to really make you think about everything you read.
He tells way too much, while at the same time withholding information from the reader to make himself look clever.
The worst thing about this book, however, was that he felt he needed to browbeat the reader with his hatred of utilitarianism throughout.
He can't seem to let his reader decide anything for himself.
He tells the reader who is "evil" and who is "radiant" in just those terms, he goes on for PAGES about his little hobbyhorses, and honestly?
Koontz just seems to look at his page count, mutter, "I better wrap this up!" and slam bang it to the finish.
Made me finally realize how much I hate Dean Koontz as a writer.
I've bought so many of his books at second hand stores, because I used to think he was good.
If only the (CHOOSE THE APPROPRIATE VILLAIN FROM THE DEAN KOONTZ WRITING TOOLS) government, crazy cult, carnival, aliens, bad scientists, trained killer, guy with a bad mom, dog catchers, would leave them alone.
Last time I went to the second hand store, I kept reaching for all the koontz books, and had to remind myself.
Throwing away all my Dean Koontz books.
I curse my inability to stop reading a book no matter how bad.
While I DO enjoy Koontz's scene setting and character depictions, the story itself, hmm, not so much.
Koontz CONSTANTLY interrupts the forward flow of the story to lecture his viewpoint and to TELL readers how his characters "feel." Constantly and continuously...right to the very end.
When the story is reaching the height of action, the culmination of all prior events, (and you're certain, CERTAIN, he must be done intruding by now) the action is stopped and another lecture is delivered...about feelings, his and his characters.
I bought the book to hear a story; if I wanted a lecture, I'd call my mom.Wendy Joyce
In terms of some good action sequences and character development, I enjoyed many parts of this.As a polemic for utilitarian bioethics, while he does cause you to think about the issues, I think the characters and some of the horrible things they did were overdrawn.
Most utilitarians are not nearly this extreme, but the story does show where these things could go under the worst of circumstances.Some parts are gross and disgusting and go on too long being gross and disgusting.I did enjoy the author's portrayal of Curtis and Leilani who really were interesting young characters.This author definitely loves dogs!
I've come to the conclusion that Dean Koontz is a good writer with everything except for endings.
This book is no exception.
The ending wasn't "bad" but it wasn't great and was a little lackluster considering the rest of the story.The main story had me completely enthralled and kept me up a few nights.
I really liked the characters and felt that the ever so tidy ending wasn't completely suited to the rest of the atmosphere.All in all- the story I give 4 stars and the ending I give 2 stars and since it was a long one I balance it out with and average of 3.5 stars.If you enjoy Koontz this is worth a read but be prepared for his little happy bow-tie endings.
Many stories within this story-exciting and thoughtful suspense with very unusual characters. All characters became real to me-one of the enemies especially real, in fact as real as the visiting extra-terrestrial! At first this book seemed a bit scattered but if you continue reading you begin to know that Mr. Koontz will as usual pull it all together. He again champions the weak, disabled, feeble minded persons and recognizes the worth of all that strive to be kind and good. Simplistic review but this is one of my favorites from Koontz.
I liked the characters in this book a lot, but it felt like the book was in slow motion for the first three quarters and then rushed for the last section. When things all came together it was so much, so fast, that you wondered if the characters would be able to remember each other's names, let alone know or trust each other. Also, it was pretty dark in parts for the emotional/literary payoff. Read if you are a fan, otherwise, I'd find something else.
The most slow moving, dull book I have ever read. Bogged down in boring description at times, the last Dean Koontz book I am likely to read.
Hope is another part, and courage, and charity, and laughter, and really seeing things like how green pine trees look after a rain and how the setting sun can turn a prairie into molten gold glass.”And what will you find behind the door that is one door away from Heaven?Leilani gives us the answer, which is according to Aunt Geneva –“If your heart is closed, then you will find behind that door nothing to light your way.
None of us can ever save himself: we are the instruments of one another’s salvation, and only by the hope that we give to others do we lift ourselves out of the darkness into light.”The characters – that’s what made this book special to me.
How to review a book by such a superb writer?
Dean Koontz has taken three story lines of such divergent subjects to parallel lengths where they diverge at an ending that tells us that only through the goodness of everyone working together can life be worth living.
Koontz is probably the best writer than I know.
I would say that this is my favorite Koontz book but then I read another one and that becomes my favorite.
Just read this book.
He makes very important points is convincingly beautiful stories.
Really more like a 4.5Koontz has always had a knack for making the most unlikely and eccentric characters seem as realistic as the people you see every day, but he outdoes himself here.
Koontz also incorporates a strong moral and ethical message in way that fits well with his plot.The only drawback: Koontz has a tendency to be verbose with his description, and again, he outdoes himself here.
While it does not detract from the plot or characterization, he probably could have streamlined enough to get the page count somewhere below 600 pages without removing anything essential.
Really fantastic book, it follows a journey unlike any other with originality, fast-paced excitement and friendship.
There is always a woman in distress who is incapable of fixing her life without a man to help her.
There is always a man looking to help a woman in distress.
Koontz tries to be mysterious about Curtis, but those of us who've read his stuff before will see him for what he is right off the bat.
As soon as I read Curtis' first chapter I predicted it, and the reveal halfway through the book came as absolutely no surprise.
yawnThis book clocks in at 740 pages, and I've wasted too much time reading half this stinking thing already.
This story is part of a box set by this author but I wanted to review separately.There are several threads to this story, each poignant in its own way, where characters bring forth a meaningful and insightful response to the meaning of life.This has to be one of my favourite stories from this author because of its deep meaning and heartfelt inspiration.My favourite character is Leilani due to her beautiful spirit, intelligence and grit.
Wow - those parents...shudder.This story also brings to light the dark side of humans, especially those who think only they and those (despicable) like them deserve to live.
A scary fact of reality.A cross between fantasy, science-fiction and philosophy, this tale is fantastic and highly recommended to those who like to question and think.
The three main characters had such interesting backgrounds, but instead of incorporating them into the book in an interesting, gripping way, like flashback chapters, Koontz reduced them to mere hints and allusions.
But Koontz, for some reason, keeps the full horror of this scenario at bay by narrating that the girl knows from experience how to avoid such episodes.
Same thing with the other characters.
One would think it impossible to write a horror story without the horror, but Koontz managed it somehow.
There was a time, when I was a college student, that I used to love Dean Koontz's books.
All of his more recent books became more and more simialr and seemed to lack the originality and life that his earlier works had.When I came across 'One Door Away From Heaven' I decided to give it another shot and maybe capture some of that lost interest.Boy, was I wrong!
I got tired after about 100 pages and just had enough of wasting any more time...Maybe someone else has other ideas but for me this is almost certainly the last Koontz book that I'll ever pick up.

