https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/708481.Babi_Yar
If I could change one thing about this book, I would wish it to be fiction.I read D.
M. Thomas's The White Hotel in college, in which an execution is described based on the true tale of Babi Yar. When I saw a tattered paperback of Babi Yar at a secondhand shop, I picked it up and it sat on my shelf for years.It tells the story of the Nazi occupation of Kiev from the point of view of the author, who does his best to recapture his 12-year-old innocence (hiding with his cat in the bomb shelter, the joy he takes in joining in the looting, or collecting spent artillery shells with his friends) and how that innocence is lost over the following 778 days.
We know the wife had killed herself.We can picture the sky painted in bands of red.We don't know if he ever ceased to do,ever paused, ever thought about it all.Today Žižek likes talking about his style,his habit of taking both sides of a catechism:'What does this country need, comrades?'Comrades this country needs ______'Also his pleasure in forcing credulity in the incredible,like the story of the dozen partridgeswho wouldn't move till the dictator could return after picking his forgotten bullets.3.Kuznetsov talked of a cauldron with a ten year old hand.
Kuznetsov talked of a cauldron with a ten year old hand in his book 'Babi Yar.' Babi Yar is a ravine near the city of Kiev.
Който след 26 ти октомври все още има при себе си гълъби, ще бъде разстрелян като саботьор"...
Даже терминологията при немците била същата: Враг на народа!" Тази книга не може да се разказва, тя трябва да се чете, и да се съпреживява..
Я сказал: — Ладно, когда-нибудь у нас опять будет много книг.
Тебе, Толя, жить, и ты запомни этот первый признак: если книги запрещаются, значит, дело плохо.
Если банды дикарей кидают книги в костер на площади — это страшно, но все же это полбеды.
Это надо уметь.
" Дано някой ден, тази книга излезе и у нас.
Kuznetsov's writing encompasses far more than that, and you really get a feel of what life must be like in a war-ravaged city.
When Kuznetsov defected to England, he took the original manuscript with him on microfilm, and added parts to it before publishing it in full in the West.
It's interesting to see what was taken out and what was allowed -- they made some surprising choices.I really cannot recommend this book highly enough, for Holocaust scholars and World War II scholars alike.
I am surprised it hasn't been reprinted since the 1970s.
It's about the Nazi invasion into Kiev and their 2 year takeover of the city.
It was first published in the Soviet union in 1966 but they censored half of the book, when Kuznetsov came to the US the book was reprinted in 1969 with the things the Soviets took out in bold and adding his additions to the book in brackets.
I think this is a little distracting and it would be nice to reprint the book now, especially since it is out of print.
Це унікальна книга, одна з найкращих серед тих, що я читала.
Ця унікальна книга написана на основі спостережень, які зробив автор, будучи 13-річним хлопчиком в окупованому німцями Києві.
Книга також повна цікавих та страшних історії, що їх автор пізніше зібрав серед виживших Киян.
Ця книга одна з тих, після останньої сторінки якої продовжуєш деякий час сидіти в шоці і зажурі і нічого не можеш зробити.
Для тих, то буде качати цю книгу в інтернеті, будь ласка, шукайте видання після 1969 року, бо до еміграції автор не зміг опублікувати цей роман без цензури.
Отличная историческая книга, описывающая все ужасы войны, глазами обыкновенного 12-ти летнего мальчика и его семье, оставшихся в оккупированном Киеве в течении двух лет.
Очень подробно описаны настроения жителей Киева перед войной как к наступающим немцам так и к отступающим советским властям, описано отношения немцев к разным национальностям киевлян.
Очень подробно описаны события в Бабьем Яру, взрывы на Крещатике и в Печерской лавре.
В общем всем советую, особенно интересно читать будет людям, хорошо знающим Киев, потому как в книге постоянно идет привязка событий к улицам, площадям и зданиям города, многие из которых стоят на тех же местах что и 70 лет назад.
He escaped death many times - sometimes, as he points out, through sheer luck.
One of the most incredible things about "Babi Yar" that makes it so significant in the genre of historical writing is that Kuznetsov, escaping the Soviet Union in the 60s, indicates which sections of his formerly published text had been previously redacted.
The site where hundreds of thousands of people were murdered was later paved over - literally.There are many remarkable moments in the book, but one in particularly which struck me was one point where Kuznetsov breaks the barrier and speaks to the reader: "A reminder.
I always liked reading about things that could only happen in a dream or in my imagination.
I chose to read this book for some insight on my research project on Babi Yar. I didn't have time to read the whole thing so I read thoroughly the first half and then skimmed the second half in one day.
I have never abused a reading of a book like "Babi Yar" before.
I'll go back and read it thoroughly when I have time and re-evaluate it as I see fit.The writing is exceptional.
"Suddenly we realized we were walking on human ashes." Always a good sentence to read. The book gets very dark, very quickly. Definitely a page turner. I'd recommend it highly, just...make yourself a cup of tea or something afterwards.
Found this while snooping around in my dad's closet when I was about thirteen. Could have come upon something worse, I guess. Something less appropriate for a girl of my age. I read it and returned it and my dad was none the wiser. I, on the other hand, was a changed person.
"No monument stands over Babi Yar/a drop sheer as a crude gravestone, I am afraid." These lines were written by the great Russian poet Yevgeny Yevteshenko in 1961, 40 years after the Nazis -- over a period of two days in September 29-30, 1941 -- murdered 30,000 Jews in Kiev.
From huge, unimaginable horrors, Kuznetsov also describes his day-to-day life -- his irascible grandfather, fights and boyhood adventures with his friends, stealing potatoes and chestnuts, searching for his cat after a bombing raid.I recently learned that I had a great-uncle who was killed at Babi Yar and so sought out this book (published in the U.S. in 1967).
the sections of the book that cover that topic are as hard a thing to read as you could find.
There are two small sections of the book that specifically deal with these mass killings- the first is the re-telling of the only known survivor of the mass executions, and no summary can do it justice.
What happened in Kiev between 1941 and 1943 is unimaginable and a must read.On a side note, the author uses three different forms of text in this book.
The second is bold text, which is what was originally written but was censored by the Russian government and thus not included in the original publication.
Not much in his tale does anything to improve one's faith in humanity...The book is presented somewhat awkwardly, with bolding for the bits that the censors originally cut out (usually gory details, and sometimes, but not always, bits that made the Stalin regime look bad).
I think Kuznetsov should have just put together the book he wanted and allowed an editor to clean up some of the bits that were simply not great writing, and not be so hung up about the past versions.
I read this book after we visited Kiev and went to Babi Yar, where there are several monuments to the people massacred there, starting with 30,771 Jews over two days in September.The author, who was 12 (and not Jewish) when the Germans entered Kiev, is adamant that people need to know what it was like to live in Ukraine during the German occupation.
He was eye witness to many of the events which took place.
He also includes eye witness reports of others who survived the atrocities.
I first read Babi Yar as a teenager, maybe for school?
I recently got a box of books about the Holocaust & have been slowly going through them, separating the ones I wanted to read or reread from the rest.
I decided to reread Babi Yar. It's a very honest & blunt look at the horror of the event.
I don't remember it being so slow-going when I read it the first time, but as an adult I did notice the pace seemed slow.
It is of course one of those classic Holocaust books that every amateur historian needs to read at least once.
A picture is worth a thousand words.
One of the best books I have ever read. I have always been very interested in books dealing with the Holocaust - I think it is the demonstration of the lengths to which the human spirit can be pushed - both the very best and the very worst. Though this book has stayed with me for years and I can see the passages on the pages, I've never been able to bring myself to read it again. The warmth the author gives as he weaves his story of wonder, chance, love and darkness is haunting.
This book is very well written by a man who as a boy witnessed the slaughter of Jews, gypsies, communists and whoever else the Germans wanted dead in Kiev. It also showed the horror of German occupation. The author was unable to write this book while he was behind the Iron Curtain because he was very critical of the communist government. The book tells it as it was and is often difficult t5o read without tearing up.
In this edition, all the original material has been restored and is indicated in bold, so the reader can clearly see what the Soviets censors thought unsuitable.
The author also added occasional observations from his present (1970); those are in [square brackets].So, for example, when the Germans first arrived, the populace welcomed them warmly, because they anticipated freedom from the hated Soviet rule.
Needless to say, all passages indicating that were censored out.
Here's an example (I've indicated censored material in all caps):" ...there stood our neighbour, Yelena Pavlovna, looking strange and quite beside herself.
IT'S THE END OF SOVIET RULE!' "
По словам автора, при редактуре рукописи в редакции советские цензоры накинулись на фразу о брошенном, подбитом танке "Прекрасной игрушкой для этих детей был этот танк"".
В издании курсивом выделено всё, что вырезала советская цензура при издании книги в журнале "Юность".
"Смотрю я и вижу, как, пока одни любят и спят, другие деятельно штампуют для них наручники.
Для этого нужно немного: мир должен уложиться в схему, которая Бог весть как формируется в их малосильных, измученных комплексами мозгах".И в то же время, на фоне описания трагедии Бабиного Яра, есть место иронии - описания деда Фёдора, его характера и привычек просто потрясающе смешное, сколько таких дедов и сейчас на свете?
Книга очень тяжелая, но стиль хороший, поэтому несмотря на описываемые ужасы -читается хорошо. Очень познавательно узнать от лица очевидца как происходили разные события. Понравилось, что автор пытается рассказать и о причинах и о последствиях. Часто задавалась вопросом - "Неужели 12-14летний мальчик мог так осознанно об этом всем размышлять и так сознательно это все переживать?" ...Видимо мог...
My uncle gave me this book many years ago and I read it then - I think it was sometime in the late 1980's. Very moving and horrible and informative. I think the edition I have shows how the book was originally written as well as the highly censored version of the book that was first published in Russia.
This was a reread of a book I read years ago (one of my earliest Holocaust reads). The author is not Jewish but tells of the atrocities he witnessed to Jewish people as well as the political opponents of Stalin. It is sold as "a document in the form of a novel." There are several versions out there; this version was the uncensored version.
The author lived through two years in Nazi-ocupied, war-beseiged Kiev. Babi Yar is the ravine where 200,000 people were killed and buried, the first 50,000 of them Jews. What strikes me most about the Nazi approach was how completely the population was categorized. No one escaped being given an assigned fate. No one escaped punishment. Such dehumanization for everyone!
The value of this account is less in creating an accurate narrative than the personal experience and wisdom related by the author. Strange that in 2017 his warnings and message about fascism still seems relevant.
Not really able to rate as it is an historical text about a terrible real life event that was not five star. The content is clearly presented and in depth. One more reciting of horrors of pogroms and genocide.
Profoundly important book especially the section on the trouble killing a fish. But you need to know the context!
Bb
Так вот, существует куча свидетельств, что в Бабьем Яру не могло быть расстреляно столько людей.
Так же Кузнецов пишет заведомую ложь о том, что трупы заливали пульпой с кирпичных заводов, но ведь дамба-то находилась ниже, чем место расстрелов!
Она вообще там ни при чем, как и Куреневская трагедия 61-го года.
А знаете, 300 тысяч людей это не просто так пук в ванной.
Этот вопрос расстрела 5тыс человек изучался очень скрупулезно.
Вот пост целиком: https://www.facebook.com/permalink.ph...В общем, мой вердикт: не верю я, что расстреляно там было больше 5 тыс человек, и то за два года, и то не понятно еще кем.
