https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93485.Cross_Creek
Cross Creek is one of the finest memoirs ever written, filled with grace and beauty from one of America's greatest writers, Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings.
It is here all her beloved books would be written, including this memoir covering the years of hardships and beauty at Cross Creek.
Cross Creek will make you hungry for succulent fruits, cornbread and hot biscuits with wild plum jelly, and the living of life itself.Reading this lovingly written memoir will leave you with a wistful desire to walk away from society as Rawlings did, and live the life we crave in our very being, even if that life can only be lived in our hearts."Cross Creek belongs to the wind and the rain, to the sun and the seasons, to the cosmic secrecy of seed, and beyond all, to time."Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings(1896-1953)
I really enjoyed this memoir of Marjorie Rawlings years in Cross Creek, Florida.
She began her sojourn there in 1928, at a time in Florida's history before tourists and developers got ahold of it.
Rawlings best fiction came from this setting, including "The Yearling" which won a Pulitzer for it's portrayal of a family trying to make a go of a farm in backwoods Florida.
She prided herself on her culinary skills and also wrote a cookbook, "Cross Creek Cookery" which I'm going to have to buy.Highly recommended to anyone needing a passport to a simpler, earlier time.
One qualifier though: some language and opinions on race relations of the time may offend some readers.
This is one of those books that I've felt I "should" read, jsut because I've been hearing about it for so long.
Some of the writing was beautiful.
I always have mental battles when this occurs in books of the period when that was generally more accepted.
It's really come down (at least in my mind) to whether or not the racism effects the flavor of the whole book.
And in this case, it did.I also thought the organization of the book was difficult and I found myself wanting more about how she came to Cross Creek, the writing process (order, etc) and just more about her life.
I had seen the movie years ago, and was captivated by the time and place as well as Ms. Rawlings and her neighbors at "the creek".
The author was accused of being a racist, and while I can certainly understand due to language of the account of Cross Creek, I would have to defend Ms. Rawlings as a woman of her times, but enlightened for them.
How can this be said when the "N" word was used and references to blacks that are extremely offensive?
"We know that in our relations with one another, the disagreements are unimportant and the union vital." She speaks here of all the residents of the creek.
Rawlings is a lyrical writer who loves the earth and nature.
The book originally published in 1942 is a substantial "should read" and I refer you to Rawlings' background in the "reviews" section.
A memoir of Rawlings, the book describes her life as a young woman who takes on running a Florida farm in the 1930's.
Her city background and her resourceful determination to live in rural backwoods are delightful.
Some of her financial decisions were a little hard to believe.
With the benefit of hindsight many criticize her racist attitudes.
I find her attitude to be no better nor worse than might be expected.
She stayed on, writing about a community and life that are both unique to Cross Creek and characteristic of people everywhere.Cross Creek is an autobiographical account of the place.
I found the first two chapters slow going because they largely dealt with descriptions of the geography of the region and little about people or events.
This book was delightful reading and gives insight to a time and place that are unique and almost certainly gone.
but it was a delightful book that, while describing the diverse ways that people overcome adversity, was more about the wonder of living at this time in this beautiful Central Florida rural community.
Cross Creek is a beautifully written memoir by Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings, author of the much-loved children's book The Yearling.
Cross Creek tells how she came to live in a remote part of Central Florida.
Her descriptions of nature are vivid.There was one big problem that made it difficult for me to read the book: Her descriptions of African Americans are extremely patronizing.
She doesn't use the "N" word, but she sees African Americans as more primitive than white people.Her descriptions of her white neighbors, virtually all of whom are far less educated than she was, are more respectful.
I read this book because a friend of mine is an expert on Rawlings.
caught my eye because the cover was so pretty and, being from Florida, it seemed like something I should have read a long time ago.I started it this week and I'm a multi-book at a time reader, so I'll complete it in due time.
However, I'm already being carried away by Ms Rawlings deep love of the simplicity of her rural community, the people and the natural landscape.
I have had this very experience, witnessing a tree against sky and had the feeling of being full from the experience...Rawlings managed to capture rural Florida life in her time brilliantly.
A souvenir picked up while on vacation in St. Augustine, Florida.
I vaguely recall reading this when a young adult but clearly I was unprepared to appreciate the author's lyrical prose style which is laced with a wonderful sense of humor.
It is a clear look at life in back country Florida in 1942 and so sometimes is a bit cringe-worthy.
But at that time those things were not cringe worthy which is surely worth reflecting upon in terms of what we do not see as cringe worthy in our own society but which will be revealed as such in the future.
Far, far more so than can be excused 'for the times.' One old gentleman who picked oranges for her is compared to a chimpanzee.
All n*s are compared to children.
MKR wants a "Negro" maid because she doesn't want to have to be polite to a white maid.
Etc. etc.Also classist, for example, forgiving of a white drunkard layabout because he's descended from a richer family, for example.
And claiming, for example, that she can see in the flight of the eagle an aristocrat and in that of the buzzard a lazy scavenger.But in between all that some beautiful descriptions of life in wetlands of old rural Florida, and some interesting history of the attempts to bring public health, education, and proven farming techniques to the Crackers, the n*s, and the others.
This was a read of a classic for a reading challenge and for background information for another project of mine. I will say that Rawlings was pretty badass, but the treatment of black people and women in the book, which accurately represents their treatment during this time period in our history, was disgusting. It made this difficult to get through without breaks. Beautiful portrait of wild Florida, ugly portrait of people especially knowing its nonfiction.
My only consolation was that "it was just a story." I convinced myself that nothing like that would happen in "real life."I didn't know what to expect from Cross Creek.
Cross Creek gives insight to Rawling's 'soul,' but doesn't include much about significant events in her life.I see why people have commented on Rawling's racist attitude, but the writing fits the times and local behaviors.
Again, this is Rawling's story so I wouldn't want it written differently, but it did make me reflect on my own beliefs and attitudes.Her descriptions of the flora and animals of Florida amaze and intrigue me.
Visiting her home a couple of weeks ago for my birthday day trip was exhilarating--I recognized bits of her land and home from her autobiography, and the tour guide made her stories come alive again: the outhouse with the screen door, her fireplace, the hunting dogs, orange groves, pecan trees, the neighbors she adored and fought with, and the snakes.But Marjorie and I differ in our spiritual beliefs: She felt there were negative and positive cosmic forces at work in her community and in her life, and she even put some stock in the African-Americans' voodoo.
The first half was difficult to read.
I wanted very much to hold Rawlings as a bit of an idol: an independent woman of the 30s making her own way in Florida.
Although she seems to have had some strong personal relationships with black people, there seems to be always a veil of judgment between her and them -- an otherness that is hard to read.
The second half, when Rawlings moves from personal relationships to her relationships with the Florida land and weather, was lovely and lilting and delightful.
But as a healing elixir, the second half was polluted by the bitter taste of the first half.
There are not enough stars.
This is one of my favorite books of all time. I've read 3 times. Rawlings engagement with nature and people is so powerful and beautifully written - and she pulls you in to her world.
Her casually racist comments paint a sad picture of pre-Civil Rights life in rural Florida, and at times I actually covered my mouth with my hand in horror as I read.
Rawlings, who is white, is nice and kind, but she seems to see herself as a benevolent benefactor to black people who are not her equals, as much as she seems to like and respect them and consider some to be dearest friends.
The N-word is used casually throughout, jarring and ugly and sickening every time.High points of this Florida memoir for me: the chapter where Rawlings grabs her shotgun and shoots a neighbor's marauding pig, tired of it eating her petunias.
People did learn, right?
So parts of this book were confusing and the racial relations show a different time and were hard to read. However the writing is lyrical in many places especially as the author describes the rural world she lives in.
I really enjoyed this book.
Published in 1942, it is an authentic peek into Florida history and is chock full of autobiographical anecdotes as well as insights into Florida plants and animals, farming, hunting, small-town politics, and the local socioeconomics of the times.
And throughout it all, Pulitzer Prize winning author Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings breathes great character, humor and insight.
I specifically enjoy her approach to writing about all of the nature around her.
You can tell when you read just one paragraph where she's talking about a pair of redbirds in her front yard that she has spent considerable time watching, noting, and listening.
As much as I admired her narrative abilities, the one thing I found very disturbing was how she wrote of her poor black neighbors.
I believe that some of this was due to her faithfulness in reporting how the locals talked and believed, some of it was due to her own beliefs, and some of it was perhaps due to the era in which she wrote (the book was published in 1942).
If you absolutely cannot abide the use of the "n" word (which I detest), do not read this book.
The author, herself, was somewhat respectful in her use of "Negroes," but some of her musings definitely made me cringe.

I loved this book.
If you haven't read it, you've missed Rawlings' best story.Originally published in 1942, Cross Creek has become a classic in modern American literature.
For the millions of readers raised on The Yearling, here is the story of Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings's experiences in the remote Florida hamlet of Cross Creek, where she lived for thirteen years.
Her tireless determination to overcome the challenges of her adopted home in the Florida backcountry, her deep-rooted love of the earth, and her genius for character and description result in a most delightful and heartwarming memoir.
I first read this book when I was in my early twenties.
At the time I could not explain what I meant by that word, beautiful.
At that time, I did not value beauty.
It was while reading this book that I first thought to myself, Wow, this writing is beautiful!.Now, some forty or so years later, I have decided to revisit books that I had read earlier in my life as a young adult.
The words, the sentences, and the images described, are like a warm blanket on a rainy, cold day to my being.I am a reader; I read a lot of books.
But not many books touch my ‘feeling’ of beauty like this book.
Autobiographical stories by Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings, the author of The Yearling, about her life in Cross Creek, Florida.
She tells of characters like 'Geechee, who is named after the Ogeechee River.
'Geechee was a young black girl who was bought by the author for five dollars to do her housework.
Seems like the girl's family was too large to care for her themselves.
And there's Mr. Martin and his pigs.
No fences in Cross Creek to keep animals in.
Rawlings has to shoot one of Mr. Martin's pigs, so she becomes in debt to him.
Beautiful descriptions of 1930s Florida, when it crawled with wildlife and riotous communities of unimaginable flora.
Had a tough time with her blatant white superiority though.
If she were writing in today's world her words would have no doubt been "p.c.", but because she wrote nearly 70 years ago during an era when blacks were just two generations out of slavery, her constant use of "Negroes" and "colored" were tough to digest.
Made it hard to finish the book.
Disregarding that aspect (hard to do!) it allows us a mouse-on-the-wall view of a time and place which has nearly vanished from today's Florida.
Ugg! I really hated this book. I had great expectations for it because it's about an area less than 30 minutes from where I live. However, the plethora of detail bogged me down and made it difficult to wade through. Stereotypes about and it's obviously dated. It was interesting enough, but too long. At the end I regreted the time I invested.
Beautiful memoir of a lost way of life in the backwoods of Florida. Some course racial language but overall a touching tribute to a time and a place when people were connected to each other, the land, the ebb and flow of the seasons and the plants and animals that they loved so intimately amongst.
Due to the time and location of this biography, there were some racist statements and phrases that made me cringe, but on the whole the volume and poetic detail of informative and entertaining stories, this is definitely a worthwhile read! Really lovely.
She calls the people who live around her farm and who work for her "negroes," "darkies," "pickaninnies," and "n____rs" among other things.
It almost felt like the purchase and running of the orange grove and farm was a bit of a lark for her, and her real business was writing.
I visited the Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings estate many years ago; I would like to visit it again after having read this book so I can get a better feel for the old time Florida that she wrote about, and possibly see her persona in a different light.
If you live in Florida, you must put Cross Creek by Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings on your reading list!
Published in 1942, Cross Creek is a memoir about Rawlings's life in the backwoods of Florida during the 1930's.
In its 23 chapters, she beautifully depicts her experiences and observations.
For instance, in one chapter she tells the story of accompanying her friend Zelma on the census taking for the federal government; in another, she describes the native fruits and vegetables and the various dishes that can be concocted with food that is often ignored or even unheard of today.
