https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311802.Run_Silent_Run_Deep
It certainly should be.Captain Beach takes us through the inner workings of the older pre-war S-boat submarines.
By the time he takes command of his new construction sub, Walrus, the reader has a good working knowledge of what a submarine IS.
The tale he weaves is one that the reader can dive into and enjoy, from Cmdr Richardsons first encounter with Bungo Pete, his enforced shore duty, finally being given command of Eel. The reader is swept along through encounter after encounter, and can't help but feel the loss when Richardsons former exec, Jim Bledsoe, is given command of Walrus, enters the Bungo Straits, and is lost.
Beach, Jr. If Clancy had studied hard, he might have qualified to change the ink in Beach's pen.
Run Silent Run Deep is a classic novel of World War II Pacific theatre submarine warfare.
Beach was a WWII submarine veteran himself, and wrote a gripping, plausible thriller about life under the sea and the perils of making war there.It's a book of its time: women are nearly invisible, the Japanese are insulted when they're not feared, and the hero is such a 40s American White Man you can practically see the starch in his collar and the pants belted around his chest.
Beach Jr. served as executive officer and then captain of American submarines in the Pacific in World War II, at the time he wrote this book he was still a serving naval officer.
That makes it rare and special in this genre.I have read complaints that certain characters such as Laura, Commander Richardson's love interest, aren't well realized.
If anything about this is not realistic, it is that Richardson would fall in love so quickly with someone he had met so seldom.I first read this book a long time ago.
Fantastic book, ultimate suspense, very realistic,I cannot say anymore.
Great book! Read this in submarine school in 1972, and got my copy autographed by Ned Beach way back then. One more reason why I wanted to write someday too!
Wonderful classic of World War 2 submarine warfare in the Pacific. One of the best ever written, better than the movie, of course, although the movie is terrific, too. Since early childhood I've been fascinated by warships, especially those involved in WW2, with a particular love for submarines. This book makes you feel as if you were there, which is not surprising since it's based on the author's personal experiences and knowledge.
As it turned out it was pretty hard to find a copy.
I did buy a former library copy now withdrawn only to find myself disappointed as I read the first third to half, wishing I hadn't wasted the $14 on it.
The characterization becomes better (although that's certainly not the strength of the book), but what really captured my attention was the descriptions of submarine warfare.
So, if you're interested in the Pacific theater of WWII and particularly submarine warfare, and if you see it at some used book store, it makes a very engaging read.
I really loved this book, mostly because of the way he brought home the experience of a submariner in WWII.
The captain is not an overly heroic figure, makes mistakes, has weaknesses, and gets hurt several times.
But overall he is competent, makes good decisions, and makes his mark in a tough war.
So I found it fairly balanced.
The author was an actual WWII sub skipper and so the book is almost autobiographical.
This book really gives you a sense of how close WWII was at times as well, the Japanese really wreaked havoc on the US Navy.
The main charaters are Rich(the captian), Jim, and the other officers and crew of the submarine.
In this story they are sent to area seven on patrol off the Japanese coast and are told to sink all merchant ships.
Im not going to ruin this story so the last thing Ill say is that the main enemy besides Japan in the book is a Japanese destroyer captian who seems to know the names of all the subs he attacks and is an extremely good sub hunter.
His name is Bungo Pete and he patrols area seven hunting for subs.
One of the best submarine movies ever made is based on this book, yet the book is completely different, and, of course, much better than the movie. Detailed explanations of the methods of firing torpedoes in WWII combined with riveting action make this book equal or better than anything Tom Clancy ever wrote. As for the movie, pre Vietnam Hollywood wasn't ready for the shocking ending of this book.
Reading about the history of those who went before you is a great experience. To read about those battle while you yourself are cruising through those same waters as you are heading into harms way was an awesome encouragement. My Father served on submarines while he was in the Navy. To read Skipper Beach's stories is to understand more of what my Dad went through. Skipper Beach is an Outstanding Author and a great American Hero. To read his stories is in fact, an honor.
I learned more respect for the submarine warfare of World War II, even with radar, they were really exposed out there. A tense, drama about life onboard a submarine hunting for the enemy off the coast of Japan. Well written, and it kept my attention. A very unlikely book for me, but necessary to help understand the risks men had to take when technology and radr was fairly new. Brave souls.
I should recuse myself since Ned Beach was a great and close friend of my father, also a submarine officer who made five combat war patrols in the Pacific in WWII.But the hell with that -- this is a really good, dead-on realistic, gripping book.
This book was awesome, and a compliment to "UP Periscope", which I also just finished. Bravery in the sub force in WWII as well as some character development made a interesting read - just like the first time I read in in 1963 (or so).
I read this book in High school and found it interesting.The idea of living in a small space like sardines.The constant fear of Depth Charges.The failure of torpedoes to explode on contact.No news from home. Isolation, dirty, Little or no fresh air.
If you want to learn about life in a submarine and how they operated in the war this book is for you.
it's been a long time since i read this, but i came across it in the library the other day. it has really bad dialogue. overall you'd have a better time playing a game of "Battleship".
Although fiction, contained enough detail to have been extracted from actual events. Best sub book out there for wwII action in the Pacific.
Over the years I've watched the movie "Run Silent, Run Deep" and was impressed with the story of a U.S. submarine on combat patrol in the Pacific Ocean during World War II.
But I was also curious about the book that was the movie's basis.
The book has little in common with the movie (which is not surprising).
The book, though, is an engrossing look at life aboard a submarine during wartime, showing the routines of the officers and crew.
"Run Silent, Run Deep" is a true classic of naval warfare and is certainly worth seeking out.
Not the first book I read on WWII (that honor goes to a book on U.S. WWII aircraft that I read in 4th or 5th grade), but certainly the one that hooked me on WWII for good. A novelized story of service on a Pacific fleet submarine that I read in junior high, there is a line describing the mix of diesel fuel and every manner of bodily fluid during a depth charge attack that brought home the brutal truth and outright terror of combat that I still remember some forty-five years later.
Well written and realistic. A historical novel based on a compendium of actual incidents. It really pulls you into the action. You may not enjoy it as much as I did if you are not a military history buff, but certainly worth the read if you Are at interested in what like to be a submariner during WWII.
Fabulous submarine adventure from the WW II, prenuclear days. Well-written, suspenseful, and detailed. Tells a quite different story from the equally riveting film of the same name starring Clark Gable, Burt Lancaster, and Don Rickles, but both versions are fascinating and worth reading or watching.
I think that Run Silent Run Deep is a great book if you want something that has action and adventure in it.
The book is made by the submarine Commander Edward L.
In the book the characters and events are fake but they seem like they should be true.
The setting of the book changes from the Naval Submarine Base in New London to the middle of the Japanese homeland around the Bungo Straits.
Then the last battle between Richardson, the captain of the walrus, and the submarine hunter Bungo Pete is the best part of the book.
Wish I could give it 10 stars. Exciting from start to finish. You feel as if you are with them through all the action.
Exciting page burner.
Read first in high school, and recently reread it. A good and accurate story, although the author’s inexperience (his first book) and the culture at the time is noticeable.
Like Das Boot, or The Cruel Sea, this is fiction but written from first hand experience. This helps to give is a realism and a level of humanity often lacking in war stories.
Thrilling and exciting. It's certainly very much of the Hollywood dramatic kind, leaving it slightly predictable. But I hammed through this at a surprising rate of knots.Very well done, the best of its kind in terms of action packed books. 5 stars for something a little more rich in terms of literature and takeaway but would recommend.
Although I knew in theory what depth charging does to a submarine, it was first surprising and then fascinating to read what it was like underwater.
This is actually one of the things that really made this book so interesting to read - a lot of the descriptions of situations underwater (and, one would assume, amongst the crew on land as well) are taken from his personal experiences serving on a submarine in World War II.
Besides these issues that I had (perhaps the story dates itself in its construction and characters?), I enjoyed reading it.
Despite getting bogged down early, the second half of this really picked up. I felt like the ultimate redemption was a bit too easy. This is maybe more a 3 or 3.5 but the sudden emotional depth towards the end and strong sub parts bump it up. The book shines during the sub parts, but feels like it struggles during the rest.
