https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1004183.A_Dog_Called_Kitty
1st - the dad: the first scene sets him up as extremely cruel (moving away and taking the kids, leaving mom behind) but the rest of the time he only seemed to laugh.
The kid was scared of him, but except for one mention of not wanting him to remove his belt, there is no development of the potential abuse.
But it must be there because...2nd - the kid beats up a bully?
("I don't remember what happened") and3rd - he's actually very cruel to the puppy4th - horrid descriptions of a dog fight5th - when you expect the happy ending because they survived the fight, a load of pipes falls on the pup and kills him.
This book is of a boy who hates dogs ever since he was attacked by one.
Even though the puppy is tiny and skinny, with sad brown eyes and a friendly, wagging tail, Rick(the boy) doesn't want it hanging around the farm.The barn cats hate to share food with the puppy and it looks as if the puppy will starve to death unless someone comes to rescue.
Ricky may be afraid of dog, but he doesn't want to see one starve.He will feed the puppy and then run away when the puppy gets his strength back But this puppy has other ideas.
This book was so well-written I probably would have rated it four stars if not for two things.
One, the parents.
Moving your entire family out to another state with absolutely no warning or discussion with your wife is a jerk move, 'Dad,' and treating your son as if he's a useless coward because he's afraid of dogs, particularly when he had a traumatic experience with one, is just mean.
The other thing is the ending.
(view spoiler)[I can't stand 'kill the dog just to give the kid a replacement who's exactly like the original dog' stories.
(hide spoiler)] Otherwise, it was a good story I quite enjoyed.
A Dog Called Kitty is the first "novel" I ever read. I was in the second grade and I remember balling my head off over Kitty's death while sitting in the bathtub. It was definitely an eye-opening experience. To be completely honest, it's been far too long for me to give this book an accurate rating, but after 20+ years the fact that I still remember reading this book as well as several specific scenes is enough for me to give it 5 stars. This book helped to create in me a love for reading.
My daughter got this book from the library and I had to reread it. It was my favorite book when I was her age and it still made me laugh and cry like it did back then. Such a great book!
Oh wow, this was my most favorite book when I was a kid!
I must have read this book literally HUNDREDS of times growing up.
I remember I had an autographed copy of the hardcover edition.
Thinking about it, I am now sad that I don't know what happened to my autographed copy.I very highly recommend this book to anyone.
Parents, this is a safe book for your kids to read but I will warn you, it deals with some very tough and emotional issues (fear, loss etc.).
I remember crying near the end of it every single time I read it.
I remember this book!
In addition to its poor structure, I found the story extremely violent and was concerned by what these "children's books" are teaching the youth.
For example, the main character, Ricky, almost lets the dog, Kitty, starve to death in the beginning.
The main character is extremely violent and shows very little regard for the dog as a creature that is to be loved and respected.On the topic of dogs, I was also disturbed by the fact that this book fed into the mania and panic surrounding certain dog breeds, specifically German Shepherds and Dobermans.
This one was a tear jerker (I didn't know going into it) but a good, enjoyable read.
Ricky moves to a farm and gets settled in until he meets a innocent looking brown scruffy dog that nobody could resist!
Ricky is still scared of the small puppy and the dog causes no harm especially cause he is homeless.
There are many cats at Ricky`s farm that share water with the brown puppy and the sad thing is that the puppy doesnt get as much love and attention as the cats (but like I said they become BFFs!) and Ricky couldnt bare to see this little puppy starve.
A stray, starving puppy ended up on their property and Ricky started taking care of it, promising that he was going to get rid of it when it was better.
While out on their farm looking for a lost cow, five stray dogs came and started after the calf and Ricky.
Kitty and Ricky fought off the dogs together.
Ricky said he did not want another dog.
Another stray, starving puppy showed up on their property and Ricky said the same thing he did to Kitty, that he would only feed it until it got better and then he would be on his own.
I read this book to my 9 and 6 year olds.
My 6 year old wanted to read it because of the title.
She didn't end up liking it at all and stopped listening before we finished.
I didn't like it either.
Though I realize it is told by a child, the grammar is so awful that if I didn't edit it as I read, neither of my children could understand what Rickey was saying.
My older child did like this book.
He found some of it funny in the middle, and he liked the very end.
A dog called kitty is a great book!
The main character Rickey has hated dogs ever since he got attacked when he was just little.
Ricky DOES NOT want this dog just hanging around the farm though!
The cats wont share the food with this poor dog so he is going to have to starve to death until Ricky actually thinks to feed him!
So Ricky thought of a plan he will feed the dog get it back to normal then run it off!
Can Rickey overcome his fears will this dog so called Kitty?
This was a good book.
I could not get my eyes out of this book, because it was too good.
It reminded me of Bill's other books, because it was about a dog.
However, certain parts of it did not make sense (spoiler alert).
The fact that the puppy lived that long with very little food did not make sense, nor how he climbed the fence like a cat, or how he lived through the dog attack (I guess the last one makes a little more sense).
Overall it was a good book, but at times it did not make much sense.
This book would have been a lot better if it had been one of the few where the dog doesn't die. There are several really great scenes where Kitty helps Rick overcome his fear of dogs including really big, mean dogs. The story even circles back to the second encounter Rick has with a dog to prove that he isn't too scared to stand up for someone anymore. It's a good lesson, but it could have ended without Kitty dying in my opinion.
I believe I first read this book when I was in middle school. And, yes, I cried. I've re-read it a number of times since then because it's a fast read; one quiet afternoon is all it takes. And, yes, I still cry. I'm a sucker for stories like these. I still have the original book from middle school and hope that my son & daughter read it, too.
I think that this book is a good book because it talks about a relationship between two enemies who became best friends.
Sometimes it's good to go back to your childhood.
This book was so sad and kind of poignant...I felt like crying at some parts but all in all it was really good.
Such a good book, almost brought tears to my eyes!
This book was a favorite when I was young, read it a few times and each time made me cry.
Seriously I loved this book. I wore out my own as a kid and when a friend was getting ready to move (in high school) I saw that she had a copy and now have hers. I cried so hard.....
the first time i read this book i was in fourth grade.i cried so much because of this book but it was worth it because it was a wonderful book
my favorite part was when kitty was found.the worst part was when he died.my favorite character was kitty.the worst character was the bad dogs.auryn 9 years
this book was very disciptive the ending was very sad.
My 9 year old reading the graphic details as a child recalls being almost mauled to death by a dog and the stitches and shots afterward had in him in tears.
Maybe the idea of watching your dog get attacked by a pack of wild animals and the graphic description of the blood pouring out of the dog and the other animals grabbing at him and trying to tear him to pieces and his guts almost hanging out appeals to some but not most small kids.
This is NOT a book for small children.
This book was originally published in 1980, and even though it never mentions it, I think it was supposed to be set years before that.
The Dad announcing he was leaving and taking his kids with or without his wife alone would make most kids cringe.The story is pretty good if you can get past the way people used to behave.
The boy has a fear of dogs and he learns to love this stray pup.The scene where they find the cow and her calf is pretty amazing.
I have no understanding of why so many dog books have this happen.
This is a childhood favorite.
I don't usually read from this genera, and while it may carry some of its stereo typical plot lines, it's not nearly as attention grabbing books.
Because of that, whenever I read this book, it's a lot easier to take a step back, and view my own world, instead of world of the made up by the author.
However, I also have to read No More Dead Dogs by Gordon Korman, just to get me in a good mood.
If you're looking for a nice, homey, easy book to read, this is definitely it.
This is a short but touching story.
Ricky was attacked as a baby by a dog, and since then hasn't been able to overcome his fear of the lovable family pets.
Ricky must overcome his fears to keep the pup alive.
If he can do it, he may have a friend for life.This is a winner of the Texas Bluebonnet Award and for very good reason.
The author has captured and told a tremendous tale of the love that can grow between a boy and his pet despite the odds.
The book is a true winner.
Stuff like Kitty starving, the dad just up and moving them all, etc is just a few of the things that scream this book is old.
In this day and age most of the events would not happen because people feed and tend to strays, care for them, etc.
Kitty starving isn't appropriate for kids, nor is what comes later, best read to kids at bedtime if you want some harsh reality and questions that keep you up at night.Reads like it's all from the kid's POV/writing level.I don't recommend despite it being a semi-classic.
