https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4214.Life_of_Pi
Or the agnostic who , in trying to stay true to his reasonable self, explains the mysteries of life and death in only scientific terms, lacking imagination to the end, and, essentially, missing the better story?There is no use in trying to provide a brief synopsis for this ravishing tale of a young boy from India left adrift in the Pacific in a lifeboat with a tiger who used to reside in his father’s zoo in Pondicherry.
But to understand this piece to be something indescribable, something godlike, is by far the greater leap of faith.Oh, but worth the leap, if the reader is like that atheist, willing to see the better story.
LITTLE INDIAN BOY GOES ON WEIRD BOAT RIDE WITH MEAN CAT.
This takes so long and is so incidental to the story and written in such a cutesy way that I started to pray the boat would sink, the tiger would get him … I would even have accepted God smiting him at this point as a valid plotting point, even if (or particularly because) it would bring the story to an abrupt end.This is a book told as two possible stories of how a young man survives for 227 days floating across the Pacific Ocean told in 100 chapters.
It's not that it was bad, it's just that I wish the tiger had eaten him so the story wouldn't exist.I read half of it, and felt really impatient the whole time, skipping whole pages, and then I realized that I didn't have to keep going, which is as spiritual a moment as I could hope to get from this book.
what I read was not at all what I had expected (I thought it was a book about a boy in the Indian slums or something).
It actually wasn't until I looked up the book in English I realized the title wasn't "Piss Life".
I guess your romantic beliefs must die someday, and that was the day for me.See, it's easier to believe in the world and be optimistic about it, when you also believe that world capable of containing a boy and a tiger co-existing on a lifeboat for 7 months and surviving.
The truth is this book probably changed my life, not in any grand, extraordinary way.
I think I'll apply it as a general rule).I wanted to like this book more - I loved the cover and then there's that little golden seal that keeps going psst, psst, you don't get it - it's waaaay deep, you missed the whole point.
I love Pi in the first 3rd, I understand the merits of Pi in the raft (just not my thing), but pi in the last bit - ugh, ugh,ugh!
And then...you get to the tiger part!Pi Patel's life quickly shifts from one of religious philosophy and animal care (at his family's zoo) to one of great uncertainty.His family is closing their Indian zoo and they need to travel by boat to a new county.
Wrong.The ship is capsizing and it looks like neither human nor animal will make it out alive.
According to Pi, either we are to believe the tiger adventure happened or it was the alternate version: cannibalism and watching his family die in the boat.
(hide spoiler)]Four stars because I have a selective memory and overall enjoyed the book.Blog | Instagram | Twitter
Still, there are a number of clues throughout the book that give the reader at least some reason to believe Pi's story did have a tiger in it (for instance, the floating banana and the meerkat bones).As such, Pi's two stories could be seen as an acknowledgement that both atheism and belief in God require some faith, and therefore it's up to each of us to choose the way of life that makes us the happiest.
And maybe once you've read the story you'll want to come back and appreciate his analysis.I highly enjoyed this strange journey at sea and found it almost believable--until the castaways encounter the island at which point I wondered how much of his sanity wavered.
Either you see the meerkat remains as proof that the beauty of the first story is true or the island is the point at which you start questioning the credence of his tale and believe he threw in this unbelievable turn of events to ready you to accept his alternate ending.
The island serves to question your own religious devotion, but you have to pick what you think it represents, which story you care to believe.
Here's my Amazon.com review:It doesn't matter whether what you tell people is truth or fiction, because there's no such thing as truth, no real difference between fantasy and reality, so you might as well go with the more interesting story.
The story promises to make you believe in God. Yet with Martel's insistence that a well-crafted story is just as good as or even preferable to reality, he leaves us not believing in a god of any kind, but rather suggesting that we embrace the stories that religions have made up about their gods, regardless of those stories' relation to scientific knowledge, since the stories are so darn nice, comfy, warm, and fuzzy in comparison with real life.
On the surface Life of Pi is a funny little book, heart-warming and audacious, but dig a little deeper and you’ll see how complex the story actually is. The magically real elements make the story doubt itself; they call into question the probability of these events actually happening because they are so ridiculously unrealistic. As Pi says to those that disbelieve him: "I know what you want. You want a story that won't surprise you. That will confirm what you already know. That won't make you se
You want a story that won't surprise you.
It does not matter if he was trapped on the boat with a bunch of zoo animals or people that reflected the animals in his life, the story remains the same: the truth is not changed.
Life is hard to believe, ask any scientist.
To do so is somewhat naïve no matter the good intentions of Pi. I did not love Life of Pi, I never could, though it is a book that made me think about the purposes of fiction and the power of stories, true or untrue.
I loved this book! I watched the film before reading the book and I loved both of them. I enjoy short chapters so this was good for me. Best scene was the 3 religious men arguing about Pi's religion. Found it really smartly done and funny.


‘life is so beautiful that death has fallen in love with it - a jealous, possessive love that grabs at what it can.’ and sometimes stories are so beautiful that souls have fallen in a love with them - a tender, quiet love that nurtures what it can. this is one of those stories.its a story that will always have a special place in my heart. its one of the only books that has ever made me re-evaluate my beliefs on faith, it helped me further realise the impact and importance of the connection betw
and sometimes stories are so beautiful that souls have fallen in a love with them - a tender, quiet love that nurtures what it can.
its one of the only books that has ever made me re-evaluate my beliefs on faith, it helped me further realise the impact and importance of the connection between humans and animals, and it planted a seed of hope that life can be beautiful, even in the most harrowing of circumstances.
this is the kind of story that will always teach life lessons, no matter at which age you read it and regardless of the amount of re-reads.
you will always walk away from this book having learnt something new about life, the world, and about yourself.
That is all fine, and bravo to Mr. Martel for being able to leave his mark on the bestseller list, something I can only imagine in my wildest of wildest dreams, but sometimes when reaching for a large audience you have to elbow out a small percentage of readers.
After reading this book, you will know why you should never, ever try to hug a tiger or take a wild animal for granted.
However, Martel has a positive message that he wanted to reach a wide audience in hopes to spread peace to a world badly in need of it, so I cannot be too harsh on him.
During this segment, he tells us that his story will lead us to have faith in God, and that the next part of the story "has a happy ending." In the next section of the book, Pi is on a boat that sinks.
When the men are not satisfied about Pi's account, he changes his story so that it's easier for the interviewers to understand - saying that each animal actually represented a person.
Pi asks the interviewers which story they prefer - the cleaned up version with the animals, or the version with the people committing murders and atrocities against each other.
Once, while riding the bus, I told a friend I hated this book. A guy I'd never met turned around to tell me that he was shocked and this was a beautiful book. I can sum up my hatred of this book by saying this: At the end of the book a character asks "Do you prefer the story with animals or without?" I can say with conviction I prefer the story without the animals--the stupid, boring, symbolic animals.
He also loves animals, and much of the book examines animal psychology and its relationship to human psychology in a vibrant, interesting way.
She heard 'hairless Christians', and that is what they were to her for many years.
When I corrected her, I told her that in fact she was not so wrong; that Hindus, in their capacity for love, are indeed hairless Christians, just as Muslims, in the way they see God in everything, are bearded Hindus, and Christians, in their devotion to God, are hat-wearing Muslims.""Christianity is a religion in a rush.
This one could have been a winner for me if it had been less descriptive. When you strip away the unnecessary animal facts, you do find an incredibly unique survival story, but unfortunately this isn’t a book I’m ever going to want to re-read, or re-listen, rather. Honestly? The movie is much more enjoyable.
Or does it?Anyway, I did tell a few people I was reading Life of Pi and every singe one of them said, "Oh yeah, isn't that the book about the guy and a tiger on a raft?" Because that's what everyone thinks of when they think of Life of Pi. The book about some guy on a boat with a tiger.
I'm kidding, a little, kind of, but the beginning of the book is just fascinating to read.
It gets pretty violent and a little disgusting st times, but you're reading about wild animals and about a guy who is caught in a horrible tale of survival.
The things that distinguish this story from Robinson Crusoe or Tom Hanks in Cast Away, is that the main character (Pi, short for Piscine) is trapped in a lifeboat with a Bengal tiger.
I kept waiting for the multi-religious theme to play a real role in the story but it did so only peripherally, so the plot seems a bit disconnected.
In the end, we are offered two stories: one of murder and cannibalism and one of a journey in the lifeboat with animals.
A key theme comes at the end of the book in a throwaway line: Which story do you prefer?
He survives 227 days after a shipwreck while stranded on a lifeboat in the Pacific Ocean with a Bengal tiger named Richard Parker.Life of Pi, according to Yann Martel, can be summarized in three statements: "Life is a story...
پایان نقل؛داستان با پاراگراف بالا آغاز میشود، و «پی» برای پاسخ به سرگشتگی انسانی؛ راه تازه ای مییابد.
در میانه ی راه، کشتی غرق می‌شود و پی خودش را در قایق نجاتی به همراه یک کفتار، یک اورانگوتان، یک گورخر زخمی، و یک ببر بنگال دویست کیلوگرمی تنها می‌بیند.
در هفته ی نخست سفرِ پی، با قایق نجات، تنها چیزی که بر همه چیز چیره است؛ کشمکش برای زندگی ست.
This is not a story of a boy and his BFF tiger.This is nothing like Calvin and Hobbes.The tiger is nothing like Tigger or Lassie.This is not a YA book.That is worth pointing out I think, because the movie poster and trailer gave me this impression.This book has teeth.My initial thoughts on Life of Pi is that it is a book that demands to be read slowly due to a rambling nonlinear narrative in the first few chapters.
Quite a few people find the book pretentious and not as intelligent or profound as the author presents it to be.
I'm a huge fan of Yann Martel's allegorical story.I read Life of Pi shortly after it had won the Booker, heavily intrigued by the story's improbable premise (boy in lifeboat with Bengal tiger). I was keen to see how the author could pull this off.But pull it off he did, taking me back to a wondrous childhood of adventure tales and fables.And you are welcome to whack me over the head with a leather-bound copy of War and Peace, but I am such a sucker for exotic book covers!Please read the book, don't see the film: Ditto, Captain Corelli.
Don't go into the forest, ladies and gents, the trees will be lookin' for revenge after they read this book.There is no question that Martel can write lovely sentences: "Those first hours were associated in my memory with one sound, not one you'd guess, not the yipping of the hyena or the hissing of the sea: it was the buzzing of flies.
But, in all fairness, people I love and respect lived it, so it's a mitzvah to read it, right?Public notice: My spiritual debt to the opinions of others is, with the reading of this ghastly book, herewith Paid In Full For Good.
Besides being confused by this material, I was amazed that the author seemed to be claiming that the story he was about to relate would make me believe in God. But more on that later.(2) Skipping to the other end of the book, the last section, in which Pi is interviewed by the Japanese investigators, struck me first as a very lame attempt at humor (of a rather condescending nature, since it makes these investigators out as complete fools).
As a sort of parable on the value of storytelling, Yann Martel's fantastical adventure, Life of Pi, is astonishing. In the most desperate of circumstances, while Pi is on his lifeboat with a Bengal tiger named Richard Parker, imagination and storytelling are the keys to Pi's incredible story of survival. Issues about believability, what really happened on the boat, take a backseat to wonder, love, creativity and to a certain extent, madness. The novel is heavy on spirituality, but it is compelling and Pi's evolving relationship with Richard Parker keeps their 227 days at sea interesting.
It's about the collapse of communism.
As the ocean liner of communism sinks under the weight of its own massive incompetence (a good idea, but the captain was drunk and the crew were sticky-fingered rascals), you leap overboard, clamber on to the only available boat (capitalism) only to find that there's a giant tiger on board which will eat you unless you can keep feeding it your hapless fellow-creatures.When I thought this novel was about God I gave it 2 stars.
But now I realise - it's a perfect metaphor - three stars.
“The world isn't just the way it is. It is how we understand it, no? And in understanding something, we bring something to it, no?Doesn't that make life a story?” Life is a story and the story of Pi Patel is one of the most extraordinary stories that I have read in awhile. The story begins before the fateful shipwreck that makes up most of the novel. Pi is a little boy who lives in India on a zoo that his father owns. Pretty much the greatest place to live as a kid is on a zoo. After watching W
After watching We Bought a Zoo and reading this book I really want to live on a zoo, even though I would have a very hard time NOT petting the animals.
I decided to take a leap of faith and believe even when it seems impossible and I think that is truly what this book is about and what you take out of it is for you yourself to decide.
Love is hard to believe, ask any lover.
Life is hard to believe, ask any scientist.
