https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/293872.Manners_Can_Be_Fun
I thought this was a fun book that serves as a good way to remind children about manners.
Our girls didn't really like it for two reasons: they got bored about halfway through and I think they were a little irritated when they saw things they do (at least occasionally) be labeled as inappropriate.
Still, I think it was a good reinforcement of the things I teach them and it was coming from someone other than me.
Sometimes we all need reminders of our manners.
Such as..."We wash ourselves and brush our teeth without fussing and making faces.
Well... that was oddly passive-aggressive. I also feel as if I fall into the categories this book states as bad, but whatever. Mini RTC
I loved this book! I read it in my 2nd grade placement and the kids cracked up. It is made up of sections on manners, like meeting someone for the first time, yawning around others, eating correctly, hand-shaking, and others. Some of the drawings are really funny; a few characters are listed as "The Whiners" and "The Grouches" for being really whiny and really grouchy around other people. This is a humorous book to be read and enjoyed to children to give them a good idea of what manners can be like.
This is a cute, creatively written, classic book of how to behave around other people. My grandmother read it to my mother, and now that it's back in print, my mother got a copy for my children. My nearly three-year-old really enjoys having it read to her.
What a happy little book, the illustrations are hilarious! I picked up a 1937 copy and this was the eighth printing. It still is ever timely, good manners for children can be fun!!
Good message but the presentation is dated.
This would be a wonderful book to introduce the topic of having manners. I would read this book in my classroom at the beginning of the year, and discuss the importance of having manners. I would have the students make a list of ways we can be polite to others in school and outside of school. I would also read this story before having a substitute enter the classroom. We would talk about how everyone needs to treat guest and other teachers with the same respect that they would give me.
This is a funny older book that has plenty of good lessons for kids today, too. It turns bad manners into caricatures of nasty little children "See this child with the big nose? That is because he's nosy..." Noisy kids, rude kids, destructive kids -- all made into caricatures that we're led to dislike. I thought it was great. And Atticus has always had good manners, so maybe this helped!!
Manners Can Be Fun is definitely a cute book but I don't know if I would add it to my classroom collection. If I were to bring it into the classroom it would only be appropriate in prek. The book is adorable and is a very easy read for even young children. This book would be a great at home book for kids to browse through.
My mom read this and other Munro Leaf books to my brother and sister and me when we were little, and I later read those same old copies to my kids. These books are slightly dated but they're a lot of fun and the illustrations are terrific. The lessons are wise. The humor has held up all these years.
This is not about stuffy manners for the sake of appearances. This book teaches basic acts of courtesy and thoughtfulness and further explains (in terms kids can easily understand) why they are important.
Amusing children's book from the 1930s explaining what we do and do not do (we do not stuff our mouths full so that our cheeks stick out) in a conversational style and cute stick drawings. Utterly charming.
The children seem to rather enjoy it, the text is simple and the illustrations are child-like sketches. Great way to introduce manners and some civility - shame these simple habits are lacking in most people these days - too much sloppiness abounds!
my favorite childhood bedtime story ever. I remember the book being so vintage it was falling apart at the seams and I wasn't allowed to touch it because it was so fragile and old...this is probably why it stuck out so much in my mind.
This book was written in the 1930's. G loves it. She now enjoys shaking hands because "that is what you do when you meet people". It isn't too preachy, just stick figures trying to be the best versions of themselves that they can.
Not even half the book that How to Behave and Why was.
A classic that was fun to revisit--who says manners are out of style
Another oldie reprinted! This is a fun book, but it still doesn't beat Sesyle Joslin's What Do You Say, Dear? and What Do You Do, Dear?
Delightful! I'm a huge fan of Leaf's Ferdinand the Bull ~ happy to have stumbled upon this little gem.
oh yes this children's book is so much fun..........hope my kids enjoy as much as i did..........
. . .from the author of Ferdinand. A fun book about manners. My kids were engrossed.
Excellent, fun read about every day manners. Makes it fun for kids to learn without realizing they are learning.
This was a childhood favorite of mine. I used to collect the cartoon that Munro Leaf had in one of the Ladies magazines.
I use this book every year with my students to help teach them expectations and good manners. It's just wonderful!
Odd.
My wife read this to my kids at least 10 times. They still have bad manners. It must be the book!!
This is a great book to read with younger children to introduce them to basic manners. My 3 and 5 year old love it! We've seen a difference in their behavior since reading this book.
This one too belongs on everyone's bookshelf! Get it. Read it. Read it to your children everyday. Read it yourself everyday! Love it!
