https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9460487-miss-peregrine-s-home-for-peculiar-children
I will NOT be checking out any sequels in this series.UPDATE: Four years after reading this book and writing this review, I've had way too many comments questioning my character in regards to this stupid book.
If you want to talk about how awesome Miss Peregrine is, instead of wasting time here not changing my mind (and in fact causing me to hate this book even more than I used to dislike it), why don't you take to your space and say what you want?And if you are really worried about people reading, why don't you let potential readers look at the evidence of various reviews and choose for themselves?
Let me tell you a secret, Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children is actually:(I don't think what follows is a spoiler, but am marking it as such anyway as some people think it is.)(view spoiler)[for elementary school kids.Yes, the book tries to pretend it is something else, embellishing itself with creepy and weird vintage photographsbut the reality is, it is nothing more than a regurgitated version of X-Men.
You might expect Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children to be a mysterious, deranged, quirky, horror-filled tale, but it just isn't.
The premise: Jacob grew up on his grandfather’s stories about his own childhood during World War II.
Supposedly his grandfather escaped the Holocaust by taking refuge on a Welsh island, at an orphanage that catered to children with strange powers.
The grandfather even has photos to prove it.
As Jacob grows up, he loses faith in his grandfather, and assumes the stories were fantasies, the photos faked.
But when a horrible, inexplicable tragedy occurs, Jacob has to reevaluate.
Could those stories have been real?
Could this island refuge still exist so many years later?
Edit on January 9th, 2016: I haven't thought about this book since I read it in July and I really have no interest anymore in reading the rest of the series.
----------It definitely was a slow moving book, but the plot really held my attention and I loved the use of the pictures.
Sometimes I felt like he tried a little too hard to make the pictures perfectly fit into the story which made it a little awkward to read, but they still made the reading experience more interesting.
The book really read like a movie and I can't wait to see how Tim Burton's interpretation is going to turn out!
Really enjoyed this!! Here's my booktalk! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H9IEq... Can't wait to read Hollow City =D
It reads like you can imagine the author viewing each image and trying to find a way to fit it into the plot of the book.
Here's a creepy picture of some twins in clown outfits, how do I add that to the book?And if you're thinking of reading this as a creepy book for Halloween - it is not scary at all.
It's all a bit bland and never becomes anything more than a standard paranormal tale about teens/children with special powers.Additionally, the narrator - Jacob - is simply not a character I like to read about.
It just reads like a not very good book.Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube | Store
Consistency is important, and if he cared I felt he would have dug deeper into finding better photos for his characters instead of just saying "oh this might work." (And I'm not sure which ones were photoshopped and which ones weren't, but the perspective of Victor's bed in the mirror of that one picture is absolutely impossible, and it bothered me to no end looking at it)Aside from the fact that the entire book felt like it was created simply to show some 'cool vintage photos,' I felt that the author didn't have a full grip on his own ideas.
Upon my second reading of this book, my opinion remains unchanged.A few creepy pictures and some weird people do not a horror tale make, and honestly, that's all the story is.
It was too distracting, and it was nowhere as creepy or weird as it touts itself to be.There is a severe lack of character development.
In that sense, they really are no better than a circus freak, the way they are shown to us; there is little empathy within the reader for them, they are sidelined.Furthermore, it is slow.
It was slow and boring.
One thing I can say I enjoyed was the photographs- they're scattered throughout the book, all black and white and remarkably creepy.
They add a nice eery touch to the story and gives it a really unique flair.The plot is what I didn't like.
The characters, too, fell flat and as a few things went unexplained we were left with scattered holes in the plot.
This book is marketed for young adults but definitely feels more juvenile, like a child's fairy tale, which is not what I expected hence leaving me feeling a bit underwhelmed.

This is kinda like uh...a hipster Harry Potter. Not a bad thing! I liked it a lot. There are tons of cool vintage photographs that lend the air of a turn of the century freak show. I loved the world and the vibe though.
Miss Peregrine’s School for Peculiar Children is no horror story.This is precisely why I decided to give this book a go.
I’m sorry to say this, but Ransom Riggs should probably work on his skills for terrifying readers, if that’s what he wants to do to us.But I was a happy girl reading this and being completely unaffected by the peculiar children.
Jacob claims that there’s nothing peculiar about him, but what if there is?It all probably looks very intriguing and unlike any young adult book you’ve read before.
2.5 starsI wanted to like this way more, and I really tried to.
As a huge X-men fan, I kind of went into this book with such high hopes and expectations.
The book as a physical copy is done extremely well, the details, the creepy pictures, the way it is written is breathtaking.
Sadly the story disappointed me so much.
In the last few pages I didn't even care about any of the characters anymore.
I really wanted to like this.Was it worth reading ?
- I can't say for sure.Will I re-read it?
- Unlikely.Do I recommend it?
I loved the writing, the humorous way Riggs has with descriptions, and the old-fashion carny photos were a nice touch.
Fantastic.But then Jacob set off in search of these peculiar children and the story became weak explanations of these old, neglected photos.
What would these people and their lost relatives think of the way Riggs used snapshots that were never meant to be public?
Maybe if Riggs had told a fantastic story I couldn't help but believe and love I wouldn't have thought about the lost real lives associated with the pictures, but as it is, I didn't think his story justified them.
A peculiar reading indeed! This is the first book in the trilogy of the same name than the title of this very book. THE PECULIAR X-MENISH  We cling to our fairy tales until the price for believing them becomes too high. This was a book hard to rate, since it provoked some contradictory feelings.I enjoyed a lot the concept of creating a new “world to be discovered” in an era where it’s supposed that everywhere was already explored, along with such unique (for not saying “particulars”) characters

Isn't she fierce?Anystalker, after watching the movie – which I don’t even know why I loved so much, I just did – I really wanted to read the book.
Most people ALWAYS like the book better; and I usually do too – when I have read the book BEFORE seeing the movie.
If I read the book first, I typically always like the book more.
In those cases where I HAVE actually grabbed the book post-movie…I typically liked the movie better.
Examples of this are The Notebook and A Walk to Remember…so, apparently if it’s a Nicholas Sparks book, I will like the movie better.
He is very close to his secretive grandfather, who used to tell him fantastic tales of his youth, and the children's home where he grew up.
Jacob believed in the possibility of a magical life because of his grandfather and the tales he told.
But hoping the reality of his grandfather's childhood will allow Jacob to heal, his father permits Jacob to explore the island and the old Home.
Enthralling, magical, spooky and wonderful, "Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children" is one of the most original and captivating books I have read in a very long time.
I knew I had to read it some point in time to finally cross it off the list and when I heard about the Ransom's book signing, I knew it was the perfect timing.Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children centers on Jacob, a young boy who ever so loved his grandfather, the man who filled his head with endless mysterious yet wondrous and terrible tales of people with amazing power and monsters too.
I grew to understand his curiosity and restlessness, his peculiarity.
I did a fun thing last week! I was invited to the Tim Burton handprint ceremony in Hollywood and a screening of the MISS PEREGRINE movie.More photos and event recap on the blog. http://www.themidnightgarden.net/2016... Winona Ryder was there, and it was kind of strange to see her again after seeing STRANGER THINGS so recently, heh.I really enjoyed the film, btw! And now I must acquire a copy of the book to read.
Audiobook......and Physical Book!!!
The AUDIOBOOK made the difference for 'me'.
The print is small in the book - and jumping around looking at the pictures without having read the story didn't mean anything 'yet'.
So, I started with the AUDIOBOOK.
but I am enjoying this whimsical crazy nutty storytelling more NOW at age 65 than I ever remember as a child.
Then again, I don't remember anyone ever introducing or reading fantasy type stories to me as a child.
I have never read a HARRY POTTER BOOK or SEEN the movies - sure they were not for me....
ARE THEY on AUDIOBOOK?
If I was the MC in this story, it would have been a very short book that would have ended with me sulking in the airport while my dad yelled “And you couldn’t have realised you were a wimp before we travelled a million miles to an island in the middle of NOWHERE?”), he is funny and he has the right amount of “Um, OK this is bizarre” moments that a lot of YA heroes seem to forgo in order to be all macho.But, there were times that I didn’t really like him and didn’t agree with the decisions that he made throughout the novel.
People who love time travel in books.
It was written too modern and I felt like it was a mismatch to have such classic photography throughout.
I kept looking back to the cover while reading like:Second most of the characters are just plain boring.
He's a pretty flat character to begin with, despite having a backstory.
He falls in ~like~ with his grandpa's old gf who can conjure flames in her hands, but I think that's pretty squicky.
I've heard the second and third ones are better and since I already plunked down the cash for them, I'm going to go ahead and read them.
Probably the fact that someone else snatched this book away from me whenever I was at the library.Rigg's first novel was fascinating and had an intriguing dark twist to it.Many of the added photographs were haunting and unsettling, making me dread that I was reading this so late at night.On the other hand, this novel had its fair share of flaws.
(hide spoiler)]Miss Peregrines Home for Peculiar Children  also had a lot of predictability to it.
Nevertheless, it's the first in what seems to be a promising series and I'll make sure to read the sequels.Find more of my books on Instagram
It was...fine?I liked the inclusion of old, weird photographs throughout the book, especially the way they were placed - you would read an offhand description of something odd, turn the page, and there was the photo showing exactly that.
It was like Riggs started out thinking he was going to realistically depict the traumatic aftermath of violent, scary situations, but then got bored and decided to just ignore all of Jacob's previously-established mental issues.
Forget the precocious Harry Potter-lite teenage hero; I wanted to read an emotionally complex story of a man reconciling his relationship with his complicated father while also learning to hunt demons.
My grandfather had described it a hundred times, but in his stories the house was always a bright, happy place—big and rambling, yes, but full of light and laughter. What stood before me now was no refuge from monsters, but a monster itself, staring down from its perch on the hill with vacant hunger. Trees burst forth from broken windows and skins of scabrous vine gnawed at the walls like antibodies attacking a virus—as if nature itself had waged war against it—but the house seemed unkillable,
Jacob Porter (I leave out his middle name, which you can enjoy discovering on your own) had been enthralled by his grandfather Abe’s magical, if frightening, tales of his past, horrifying monsters in pursuit and a safe haven of a special school in Wales for those fortunate enough to escape.
I began to wonder who some of these strange-looking children had been—what their stories were—but the photos were old and anonymous and there was no way to know.
The author writes that this book, like the first Harry Potter, is meant to introduce his characters and his world to readers.
He goes to the library because although he lives in modern times he has no internet, and he says stuff like "unreasonably expensive Adirondack", & "Ricky, whose car cost less than my monthly allowance at age 12" (what a fucking jackass, this douche!).
It is super inconsistent, super lame, and what's up with the old children talking with modern lingo?Just bad.
Scan through those.Lastly, "Miss Peregrine's" has that uncomfortably modern attribute, an a-ha moment very early on when the reader realizes that he's been had: for he's treated not like a reader here, but as a book CONSUMER.
A CONSUMER of books.

Ένα παράξενα συγκινητικό βιβλίο που πραγματεύεται μια ιστορία φαντασίας με τόσο όμορφο τροπο που εύχεσαι να ειναι αληθινή.
Σε όλο το βιβλίο κυρίαρχο συναίσθημα η αγάπη που κινεί τα νήματα και κάνει τις αποφάσεις ζωής ή θανάτου να μοιάζουν απίστευτα εύκολες και αναπόδραστες.
Η αγωνία και η ένταση κυριαρχούν και επιβάλλουν τη δίκη τους τροπή στα γεγονότα που δεν ειναι σχεδόν ποτέ αναμενόμενα.
Μια σειρά αποκαλύψεων εντυπωσιάζει τον αναγνώστη και ως την τελευταία σελίδα υπάρχει προσμονή και ελπίδα σωτηρίας για τον κόσμο των ασυνήθιστων πνευμάτων - των ξεχωριστών παιδιών της μις Πέρεγκρινπου τόσο έξοχα κερδίζουν τις καρδιές των συνηθισμένων ανθρώπων!!Καλή ανάγνωση!Πολλούς ασπασμούς!
Young Jacob Portman was close to his grandfather, loving the stories his grandfather told of his childhood in Wales - the magically beautiful house, the other children ...
Unable to resolve his feelings of guilt and grief, Jacob and his father travel to Wales to try to find the children's home, in hopes that finding it and talking to people from his grandfather's past he will be able to finally resolve his feelings.However, once in the small town on a Welsh island, few people know what he is talking about - finally he finds someone who has heard of the house and gives him directions, but he finds only a run-down, bombed out house that was apparently destroyed in World War II.
While looking around, however, he finds a truck of pictures, which he shoves down the stairs in order to break into it.
Mystery begets mystery as the world of Miss Peregrine and her orphanage for peculiar children takes shadowy shape. I was immediately intrigued by how the story unfolds (through vintage photographs). The atmosphere works nicely with our protagonist's search for answers on a remote island off the coast of Wales where most of the action takes place. After a beginning (which quickly drew me in), it took some time for me to get caught up in the story again. It was a fun read. The ending left plenty of mystery (maybe a bit too much), but I enjoyed the story!
