https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/398337.In_Youth_Is_Pleasure
La grandezza di Welch si manifesta su ben altri registri: la sua scrittura fonde nostalgia e ricordo, fa venire in mente un ferro battuto barocco, ricca, ornata, dettagliata, mai eccentrica, e solida trasparente avvolgente.Denton Welch e l’amico Eric Oliver.Nato a Shangai, da famiglia più che abbiente, padre uomo d’affari, orfano di madre dall’età di undici anni, tre fratelli maschi, (fin qui sono tutti elementi che si ritrovano in questo romanzo, Orvil il protagonista sembra ricalcato su Maurice Denton Welch), studi in Inghilterra in Belle Arti, avrebbe voluto fare il pittore, ma a 20 anni fu investito mentre pedalava in bicicletta e riportò gravi danni alla colonna vertebrale, restando paralizzato per il resto della sua breve vita – la pittura diventò impossibile, e la scrittura sembrò l’unica giusta compensazione – ma i dolori erano così intensi che poteva scrivere per soli tre/quattro minuti alla volta – morì a 33 anni.Denton Welch: Autoritratto.
Which suggests what I like so much about Denton Welch in general – he is learned and literary, and writes with a spontaneity and natural ease, but he does not try to make his books into more than they can accommodate; there is an organizing intelligence at play, but there is absolutely no contrivance in the narrative, no forced overlay of meaning or larger purpose.
And as odd a stylist as Welch can be, and as particular a sensibility, there is still the feeling (at least in my mind) that to read him is to learn about one's self and one's apprehension of the things of the world, which attests to the ultimate naturalness of his expression.
Discussed this book here: https://youtu.be/oGZCoVeC50I

Set mainly in the environs of an upscale hotel in the British countryside at which Orvil is staying with his mildly effete wealthy father and two condescending older brothers, Denton Welch’s mid-20th-Century novel In Youth Is Pleasure chronicles the vibrant inner life of Orvil Pym, a sensitive and imaginative teenage boy who is just coming of age.
I was turned on to this book by John Waters via his "must-read" list in his book Role Models.
I am proud to say that I had already read two of the five and I have been slowly making my way through the remaining three.
I have to say that in reading this there is no question as to why JW would add it to his list.
There are multiple scenarios in the book that are so lushly described that I felt like I was there and when I woke from my literary daze I was left wondering, what the fuck?
In youth is pleasure - dass dem nicht so ist, zeigt Denton Welch in diesem Coming-of-Age-Roman. Was ist das besondere? Das Erwachsenwerden wird hier nicht in Emphase gekleidet, wir sehen das Erleben eines Jungen pur und ungeschönt, Gewalt und Eros sind dabei die bestimmenden Einflüsse. Dazu findet Denton Welch eine schöne, klar-nüchterne Sprache, ohne jede Wertung - seht her, so ist es. Und lest, denn Denton Welch (1915-1948) ist eine wunderbare Wiederentdeckung!
"It reminded him of his childhood when he and his friend used to play a curious precocious game in which they both pretended to be noble ladies at a ball. One would always begin by asking the other, 'And what, if I may ask, is that exquisite perfume you are wearing tonight, Duchess?' The other would then flutter an imaginary fan and simper before replying, 'It is Guerlain's new Pot-de-Chambre, my dear Countess.'"
I stumbled on this by accident and it turned out to be a complete delight. Totally unlooked-for, this is now one of my absolute favorites. Unfollow anyone who gives this lower than a 4. This book reminds you of what it was like before you were a person.
Wow it actually is Proustian
Welch writes in a staccato rhythm that seduces with its uniqueness and his honesty is so guileless its actually a little shocking.
Somehow he imbues tiny details and actions with great significance.
The first person narrator, a thinly disguised Denton Welch, is clearly a person of such sensitivity and passion that even his obscurity and insignificance cannot blunt his starlike quality.
Actually, he reminds me of Joan Crawford...
someone who commands attention by virtue of taking life more seriously than is pleasant or even usually possible.
Welch is not a writer of great social sweep, but he's so talented he could give navel-gazing a good name.
In Youth is Pleasure (1945) by Denton Welch is like picking peach that feels too much like your grandmother’s kisses. Delicate, and if you’re not careful, it will surprise you with cuts you didn’t know you had. Perverse and delightful, it’s a sensual read. Welch uses metaphors that put a taste in your mouth you’ve never tasted before, much like Japanese comparisons in fiction. p/s: Yes, I did read this because John Waters suggested it.
Second book I read based on influential books listed by John Waters in his wonderful Role Models. Sensual, hyper-detailed documentary-style narratives reminded me of Proust. Loved the unstable psychological undercurrents. My copy had an amazing introduction by Allen Ginsberg who also cites the book as an all-time favorite. Quick and interesting read.
Weird, tortured, twistedly erotic. Welch was some sort of genius, poor thing.
*** 1/2I’m amazed by the amount of details Denton Welch can squeeze in a book. There’s something morbid and disturbing about Orvil Pym, yet his story is told in the most delicate way. He’s indecisive, raw, inexperienced, lost in his mind and in a world of his own, struggling to fit in and ultimately trying to conform. In Youth is Pleasure is the account of a summer of discovery and it has never felt so urgent.
A Luca Guadagnino le gusta esto.
Melhor livro da vida <3
the geography in this book makes no sensevery fun read
"The sun filtered through (the trees) in round spots that trembled like jellyfish"Utterly lucid descriptions of things a young boy sees on his walks in the country, his walks that he goes on to escape a hotel that he should be spending time at with his father and brothers.A book seemingly about nothing and yet so gripping because of how beautiful the prose is."A book of pure poetry" says Michael Silverblatt- nail on the head.
If not for its homoeroticism, this book would be a great introductory text for students learning English as a second language. Why? Because this is some of the clearest, easily followed prose one can find, with a simple story full of everyday events set in real locations.As literature, it's a fantastic read, so sensitive, so unpretentious, so honest, and full of arresting images.
With little else to do, he explores the hotels vast grounds and spies upon people.Permanently wrapped in his teenage angst and dreading going back to school from the moment the holidays start, Orvil is in a perpetual state of unease.All he really wants is to be left alone.He meets various characters during his stay at the hotel but there's very few he feels at ease around.There's seems little Orvil can look forward to.This short novel is like nothing I've read before.
His psychological insights and apparent lack of any desire to write what a reader might want make this book seem chronologically ahead of its time to me.Orvil Pym, the 15-year-old protagonist, seems a bit young for his age, and while I end up viewing him sympathetically, it is a bit hard actually to like him or identify with him aside from the occasional odd moment.
I'm not sure if I like him or not, but I do feel for him, and wonder how life later on played out for him.So, this is a story which makes one think and feel, with writing is both elegant and communicative in a simple way at the same time.
1) I have been wanting to read this book for a long time, after reading about Denton Welch's life It got me intrigued.
Don't get me wrong for the time it was written in, it's a decent book.
Orvil likes to imagine things, he transcends to other places whilst being in the present.
To sum it up it's a short story of Orvil's summer holidays and encounters, and escapes.This passage caught my attention:"I want to die."The man looked disgusted."That sounds very silly and melodramatic." he said coldly."I don't understand how to live, what to do." said Orvil in a rising voice, taunted by these words.
This is a lovely book by Denton Welch.
It is probably mostly autobiographical, but is presented as fiction.
In the meanest terms, it's the story of a boy's summer holiday with his family, which consists of two older brothers and his father.
Orvil's mother passed away when he was twelve.
A record of this summer's events from another person's perspective would be quite dull, but Welch infuses Orvil with all of his sensitivity, peculiarity and introspection.
With these qualities, Orvil's minor misadventures and social gaffs take on a mythic quality.For those new to Denton Welch, this would be a good book with which to start.
It was due back at the VCU Library a few days ago and my golden sister went to renew it but the incompetent staff told her it could not be renewed because it was 15 minutes late.
As in, I [she] checked the book out 28 days earlier at 9:45 PM, and it was considered late because she went to renew it at ten o' fucking clock.
This novel reveals the Orvil's deliciously naïve perspective on the world, revealing his pondering on banal aspect of the quotidian including the darkness of the interior of a shoe, the good-tasting quality of un-toasted bread, etc.
I feel this is a good read for anyone who is caught up in daily malaise as it allows one to peer through the eyes of a troubled adolescent boy.
I understand the title as describing the youthful spirit for life -- the capability to appreciate beauty and pain before one is calloused and jaded and pissed off all of the time without knowing why.
I like many have come to this via John Waters.
I'd never even heard of him until this.This book is a classic, I never really 'got' The Catcher In The Rye, this short story of an adolescent boy's summer holiday in a genteel Country Hotel dreading the day he has to return to his Public School spoke to me so much more than Holden Caulfield's aimless wanderings.The burgeoning sexuality, the otherness, the refusal to encode his autobiographical homosexuality and s&m tendencies must have been shocking back then, even now, they are startling.
Of course, this isn't quite 50 Shades Of Gay, it's not written simply to shock or pander to silly fantasy.
Plus it's beautifully written.
This ironically-titled novel took me back to that horrible time in adolescence of hyper-sensitivity and depression. I remembered how horrible and trapped I was - forced to go to school, basketball practice, forced to go to camp, having no control over activities, and wanting to die to avoid it all. All the while dealing with being a gay boy, being teased about it and finding strange pleasure in life's daily helping of sadism and humiliation. I had no idea such a novel existed. Thanks to my friend Eva for this fantastic read and birthday present.
El texto crea interés para el lector ante la posibilidad de colocarse en la inocente, pero perspicaz, mirada del protagonista, como hiciese John Grisham en La granja (en el que también un joven cambiaba de aires para vivir la temporada de verano) re-descubrimos la felicidad de ausencia de obligaciones, como el menor detalle cobra importancia y cuanto odiamos que esos días de libertad se acaben. >> http://www.underbrain.com/literatura/...
"In spite of all his efforts, he could not stop thinking of school: the iron beds like black enamelled skeletons, the meat-red horse blankets in the Sanitorium, the maters with a snow of scurf on the shoulders of their ancient gowns, the rather grotesque beauty of the mid-Victorian stained glass in the great hall. Everything had a demonish quality of unreality, a sort of pasteboard attempt at horror."
