https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33396914-assassin-s-quest
This review won’t be pretty, I’m severely disappointed with this installment.I don’t know if this is considered an unpopular opinion or not but if it is, I’m warning anyone who’s a fan of this book to just skip reading this review.
Repeat this til braindead.The thing is, the more knowledgeable character said if he/she let him know, the results will be catastrophic but then when Fitz finally found out, NOTHING happened.
Let the readers know how painfool editing are.”Picture: Assassin’s Quest by Marc SimonettiI’m sorry Robin Hobb and I’m sorry for the fans for writing this review.
;-) I know many of my goodreads friends gave “Assassin’s Quest” a rather low rating and weren’t happy with the ending and even though I understand their reasoning I still feel the need to declare that I liked it!
*lol* I mean yes, he’s definitely in love with Fitz but I’m pretty sure he’s no woman, or at least not all of the time.
Fitz deserves so much better than that and I really hope that one of the other books will finally give him the happy life he longed for!
Un freaking popular opinion!
And no, I don't care.
Although, some of my friends feel the same 😊All the stars in the world for Night Eyes!
🐺The narrator did a wonderful job as usual but I just wasn't feeling this one.
Does this mean I will never read another Robin Hobb book?
No Does this mean Robin Hobb doesn't write great books?
No I will continue on with this world as I go along 😊I happy for all of you that loved this book!
There is nothing like loving a book 😊💕Now don't be talking smack on my review.
Fitz is in danger of losing himself completely if he doesn’t realise the importance of his part in the events to come."I thought we had lost you.
So, Fitz learns to live with his personal sacrifice and move on; he knows Molly is safe with Burrich: he is now left to follow the path of the lone wolf.
Fitz has come so far through this story and has developed into a true hero, as signified by his final actions towards his biggest foe and how he helps his king.
But in the end, I was disappointed, and I simply have no patience left.Assassin’s Quest has the exact same problems as the first two books in the trilogy, only much more so.
You can see each one coming long before it happens, rendering the book amazingly predictable, and every time Fitz managed a miraculous escape, mostly through sheer luck.
The entire trilogy was concluded and in the space of two short chapters at the very end of the book.
It pierced my heart to watch them allow their disagreements to fracture the group, but overall it felt like a realistic & necessary development for all involved.So now Fitz strikes off with only Nighteyes to assassinate Regal & we come to one of my biggest qualms with this final book.IT'S.
But when Fitz is captured twice more, the excitement of the moment is quite dampened by the fact that I'm certain he will find a way out of his situation.This renders Fitz's capture/escape scenes pointless & uninteresting for the most part.All the while, Fitz manages to meet three separate women (none of which are Molly) who all want to fuck him.
After the spine-tingling cliff-hanger at the close of the book two, I was fully expecting a cathartic close in this the third and final book in the Farseer trilogy.
However, I found myself getting bored with the tiresome -- and seemingly endless -- quest that took far too much of the last half of this 700-some-page finale.
(How convenient and stereotypical of the genre!) Or maybe it was just the deliciously unresolved endings at the close of books one and two that whet my appetite for more.
In any event, I have to say that I was a bit disappointed with the close of "Assassin's Quest".
The ending of the Royal Assassin was a game changer and it lifted my expectations for this book in such way that I couldn’t wait to find out what will happen next with Fitz and his companions and what fate will befall the Six Duchies.Writing this review wasn’t an easy task.
Long travels usually mean slow pace and I usually don’t mind slow pace in books when it has a purpose of introducing us with the characters and the plot but that is generally more common in the first or middle book of the series, not the last one where we expect things to pick up and all those plot threads to resolve.
But after the quality of the first two books in this trilogy, I was shocked and appalled by this one--and, what's worse, I was bored.
what happened to all the passion and intrigue of the first two books?
The ending itself is decidedly bittersweet, but after this slog I no longer cared about the characters I'd been so emotionally attached to for the first two books, so it didn't really bother me.
I've tried to find some redeeming quality here, but honestly thought the book was hideous, and it definitely brings down my opinion of the trilogy.
2.5⭐Well, that was... interesting. If there’s an author who knows how to crush a reader’s expectations with a hard blow it’s Robin Hobb. This was dramatically longer than both previous books yet... VERY LITTLE HAPPENED. Apologies, nothing happened. I seriously don’t know what to say here since this book was littered with nothing but over 800 pages of:Traveling. Repetitive recounts. Continual, petty, hormone-induced, why-won’t-you-fuck-me arguments that bring nothing to the narrative. Traveling.
2.5⭐️Well, that was...
interesting.
If there’s an author who knows how to crush a reader’s expectations with a hard blow it’s Robin Hobb.
This was dramatically longer than both previous books yet...
VERY LITTLE HAPPENED.
Apologies, nothing happened.
I seriously don’t know what to say here since this book was littered with nothing but over 800 pages of:Traveling.
Repetitive recounts.
Continual, petty, hormone-induced, why-won’t-you-fuck-me arguments that bring nothing to the narrative.
Seriously-Why-won’t-you-fuck-me arguments/fights whatever you want to call it.
Horribly written female characters(why does Hobb keep doing this!?).More recounts.
traveling.
traveling.
A messy review for a messy book.
The end.
I tend to like plot driven books, well developed villains, and I don't want a Gary Stu protagonist, but I do want my hero to be heroic.
It's the main character and I'm following his story, of course I'm going to root for him!Sadly this book followed a pattern I didn't like: 1.
Fitz would do something wrong, often because he didn't know better.
By the end I was completely tired of everything going wrong again, and again, and again.
Sadly, I can't say I liked this book and I don't think I'll be reading anything else in the series.
The plot sounds silly when I recount it but it actually is a damn fine story with oodles of plots, intrigue, excitement, characters and emo bits.Fitz looking more mature in this older edition's coverWhat I particularly like about this series is how the fantastical element is implemented (I dislike the term “magic system”, it sounds inappropriately techy for fantasy).
Ms. Hobb’s penchant for angst and melodrama also bogs the narrative down from time to time and made the book longer than it needs to be (757 pages).2016's expensive special edition, cover art by John Howe.Still, Assassin's Quest is a damn good read, mostly well paced and has a rousing climax.
The Catalyst shall hunger for a hearth and children in vain, for his children shall be another's and another's child his own.For approximately 60% of this book I was positive it was going to be 2-3 stars.
It begins very interesting, but soon began to drag as each day becomes seemingly mundane details of Fitz' travels, including the smells he encounters and the animals he hunts.However I feel like the last 40% completely changed how I viewed the book.
And books that capture my attention that completely are usually 5 stars.
I know Fitz is handsome and all but he admitted that after that ordeal in the previous book and him been just on a meat diet he looled like crap, sometimes people thought he was a begger, so how is it that they still want to have sex with him?After that annoying section of the book with just Fitz and his thoughts, he finally had company, The Fool changed things for the better and other fun characters too, but that again was ruined by Miss Hobb with that horrendous ending, I refuse to accept that as the ending to this series, things worked out for everyone except Fitz, would it have killed her to make him a tiny bit happy?To make matters worse, everyone was happy at his expense, his sacrifice made it worthwhile and it hurts that none of them even thought of him, Am sure none will do that for him, they just kept taking from him without thinking of what he was loosing.
This book has to drop one star because, although as beautifully written as ever, so much time is spent on the looooooooooong search for Verity.
Even I was starting to get exasperated with the lack of action and I am a devoted Hobb fan.
This trilogy was a re read and I was far more impressed this time than when I first read it.Having read the tawny man, liveship and rain wild series already, it amazes me that Hobb had such a full and detailed picture of the world she was building.
She lays the foundations for all the future books in this first trilogy.
Time progresses and once Fitz realises that death has released him from his bond to the late King Shrewd, Fitz decides that for once he is going to do something that he has longed to do – something that I have myself longed for him to do – and that is to play the part of the Royal Assassin and dial up regicide and reap bloody vengeance on the self proclaimed, King Regal.Now, knowing who we are dealing with here, Fitz botches the assignment (yes, I am harsh, his plans never seem to go as planned) but manages to escape with a little help from the real King, Verity, but in the process receives a new set of orders via the Skill to ‘Come to me’.
Book 1: 3.5*Book 2: 2*Book 3: 3.25*I'm really glad I didn't abandon this series after book two.
Book one was so good but then book two was a snorefest.
This book started and ended really good.
I do think it was drawn out in the middle a bit and a quarter of it could have been lopped off.
I also think Fitz is a hard main character to like.
I'm not big into invincible heroes but clueless ones are just as bad.
Fitz for me was the worst part of this series and when that's your main character it's a rough ride.
3,5 Sterne.Dieser letzte Band hat mich echt enttäuscht. War total langatmig und hat sich teilweise unnötig in die Länge gezogen. Und das Ende hat mich irgendwie unzufrieden gemacht ... Ich bin gespannt, wie es mit Fitz in den kommenden Reihen weitergehen wird, die natürlich auch in den 6 Provinzen spielen werden!! Alles in allem eine tolle Fantasyreihe
I must confess I fell in love - with a wolf and a fool, a queen and her dragon and a little boy who, stumbling through life, falling and blundering at every step, grew into a better, wiser man. I fell in love with the world Robin Hobb created in these pages. Assassin's Quest was for me even better than the previous 2 books of Farseer. And the trilogy as a whole took a place of honour on my "all time favourites" shelf.
Desde que la leí por primera vez guardo un lugar especial dentro de mí para ella, y por eso me daba algo de miedo volver a leerla, pero lo he hecho, y el recuerdo se ve incluso reforzado: una maravilla de principio a fin.
En fin, en esta segunda lectura he pasado de nuevo unos años con el pequeño Traspié en Torre del Alce, he querido muchísimo a Morrón y a Herrero, en cada momento libre que tuvimos nos escapamos con Molly Martillete a pasear por el puerto.
No full review, let me only say that I thought it was a fitting ending to the series. But in the beginning and the middle there were a few passages that could have been shortened or left out. In contrast to this there was information provided in the epilogue that I personally would have liked to have been shown us more over the course of the book, instead of being told at the end. In the end a 3,5 stars read for me that I rounded up to 4 on GR.
This book was a frustrating conclusion to a pretty good trilogy. To accompany FitzChivalry through so much suffering and labor only to have him end up in permanent solitude and dejection was almost too much. I really had to search deep for optimism enough to pick up another book. Arguably realistic, but ultimately disappointing.
Y repito, eso, aunque lento no me importó, pero luego en el momento de resolver todo el entuerto me supo a demasiado poco.El villano es otro de los puntos que encuentro flojísimos de esta historia.
En serio, creo que es el villano más pésimo con el que me he encontrado en mucho tiempo.Por no hablar de lo poco bien aprovechados que están algunas de las subtramas y de los personajes más interesantes de la saga (PACIENCIA :( )Aún así, voy a seguir leyendo esta saga sin duda.
Creo que vale la pena seguir la historia de Traspié y leer sobre todo lo relacionado con el mundo que crea esta escritora.
After throwing some really good surprises in the start of the book, Fitz embarks on a journey which took the whole book to complete and end was not as grand as I expected it to be considering it was the final installment of the series.
She started with Red Ships and Forged ones in book One but left that concept for Elderlings.
Then she wrote this whole book about how they can be found and Red Ships can be destroyed but she hardly spent a page in doing the latter.Whereas in the second book I hated Fitz, in this edition I simply pitied him for he suffers right from the start to the very end.
There are so many characters who I've been rooting for the entire series and the ending could not be more bittersweet than it has been.
And this book could have been a couple of hundred pages short while delivering the same story it had, it dragged on unnecessarily while delaying the essential things that I as a reader was craving for after all that has happened in the story since the beginning.
There are a lot of existentialism related thoughts well embedded into the story and characters that have humanized these fantastic characters and I personally appreciate and yearn for such depth in every book I read.
Beautiful, stirring, at once both intimate and epic, and infused with as much heart and soul as anything I’ve ever read. Nothing comes easily to the fully-imagined, deeply-felt characters Robin Hobb has created, which makes their triumphs and sorrows all the more earned and all the more moving. I remain humbled and awed by her skill, her compassion, her precision, and her generosity of spirit. I’m grateful that more stories of Fitz and the Fool (and perhaps others who have populated this remarkable trilogy) await me.
Almost everyone says that it doesn't live up to the first two books in the series, and on a personal note, my brother (who I often share book opinions with) went so far as to say he hated the book.
The world that Robin Hobb created was so vast and beleaguered with weighty problems (like the Red Ship Raiders) - the resolution of those problems should have been epic.
And I really did love the world and larger plot (there were some fantastic scenes and portions of the book that I thoroughly, whole-heartedly enjoyed) that Robin Hobb created - even if the final execution wasn't up to snuff.
They make Fitz's personal experiences extremely realistic, in contrast to the vagueness of the larger picture.The characters are too segregated as good or evil for my taste.
(I had my eye on one ambiguous character, hoping for hidden depths that never materialized.) The motivations of the external bad guys, the Red Ship Raiders, are explained (view spoiler)[in one paragraph at the end of the series (hide spoiler)].I thought the book was going to get sidetracked with this "Old Blood" business - when Fitz finds others with the same ability to bond with animals - but it didn't, and I'm glad.
It's a nicely contained trilogy that doesn't require the later books in the series for you to feel it was complete.
That said, I'm already on to the next trilogy that Fitz is in (skipping the Liveship Traders books for now even though I really enjoyed those the first time I read them.
I can't leave Fitz for that long.)First review:I didn't particularly enjoy the first third of this book but I loved the rest.
The last in a trilogy is usually my favourite since it contains the answers to those questions that have been building up throughout the series.
Lately I’ve been playing a lot of  Assassin’s Creed: Brotherhood . It’s a video game in which you assume the persona of an assassin in Renaissance Italy. (There’s a whole frame story involving modern-day Templars and a machine that lets you relive genetic memories, but let’s not get into that right now.) Although nowhere near as captivating as my gold standard, Mass Effect, Assassin’s Creed is a fun franchise that I’ve followed since its inception. It’s fun because the entire point of the game i
It’s fun because the entire point of the game is that you get to go around and live out the fantasy of assassinating people in a well-constructed historically-based setting, with parkour-like open-world mechanics that work well if you don’t have the hand-eye coordination and reaction time of a sloth.
(Alas, I do.) Indeed, I like reading stories where the protagonist is an assassin—but that’s nothing compared to playing one in an interactive medium.In my review of the previous book in this series, I commented on how boring Fitz’s story is compared to the one we don’t get to see, Verity’s quest for the Elderlings:Verity’s departure, and his quest, merely serve to highlight the lack of action happening at Buckkeep.
