https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/805023.My_Sweet_Audrina
If ever there was a "guilty pleasure" sort of book, V.C. Andrews is it. I read all her shit when I was little, and I am not ashamed.
This is the story of Audrina Adare a young girl with memories like "swiss cheese." A young girl haunted by the ever-present spectre of her deceased older sister, also named Audrina.
A girl so prevalent in literature and movies and television and you dear, dear Vera are the archetype.
And ya, every night her father rocks her, against her will, in her dead sister's old rocking chair, but VERA?!
She breaks her leg, like 4 times in this book!
Vera plotted and planned her revenge on the Adare's from day one.
Vera is a force of nature!
Vera saved this book.
Vera, I love you.
By the time Audrina sexed her husband on the grave of her dead sister after beating him for two whole pages, a tear in my eye began to form as I realized just how brilliant V.C. Andrews was.Mind control, dead babies, three deaths from falls on the same friggin' staircase, suicide, a retarded girl obsessed with prisms, gang rape, some seriously disturbing & pseudo-incestuous father/daughter loving, a former ice skater with no legs who happens to be a dead ringer for Liz Taylor, insider trading, a girl forced to clean up the miscarriage she just had on a beautiful Oriental rug, attempted murder, two sisters who hold teatime with a picture of their other (cannibalized!) sister perched high atop a grand piano as they mimic her voice, a random coma thrown in for good measure, and multiple uses of the word "golly" with an exclamation point to emphasize just how gosh darn golly all of this bizarre shit is.The "heroine," Audrina Adare, may be the dumbest creature ever conceived for a piece of fiction.
The only V.C. Andrews book that doesn't follow the five book series rule (Poor beautiful girl book, poor beautiful girl is rich book, rich beautiful lady book, beautiful offspring book, and evil dead grandmother prequel) is My Sweet Audrina.
It's the tale of a hauntingly beautiful girl (really, is there any other kind?) who has a dead sister who had her name and died on her birthday years before she was born(?), a skanky mom (per usual), and this time, it is the AUNT who is evil, not the grandmother.
This was so much better than I remembered. Spooky, strange and problematic. A perfect pick for the first read in my book club! My full review with spoilers will be up on my booktube channel http://Youtube.com/peterlikesbooks
A beautiful young girl who is named after her dead older sister, said girl also has memory disorder; a mean-spirited cousin, an abusive father, a beautiful but entrapped mother, a gloomy grand house with creepy dysfunctional clocks, locked rooms and antiques, a legless woman and her son, tea parties with a dead aunt every week, woman on woman hating, family secrets blah blah blah.
Although the casting is great (expects the actress who plays the adult-Vera, though her acting is great but her look just isn't as good as the rest of the crew), yet the pacing is way too fast, many creepy things/events (where is Arden's mother?) and the characters' questionable behaviors and attitude are simply crossed out from the movie and it is just down right lazy and cheesy.
LOL! I can hardly hold my head up from the shame of giving this one 4 stars, but everyone is entitled to a guilty pleasure, and when I was in high school, V.C. Andrews was mine. I love this one because it's so different from her other works, and I'm fairly certain it was one of the last novels she actually wrote herself (the latest series are written by a posthumous ghost writer). It's a great "lying on the beach," trashy summer read.
It seems this book is also the subject of a ‘Lifetime’ movie, so I was immensely curious and ready to dive into a Gothic Horror classic, which could, if I was ready to approach it with an open mind, turn me into a rabid fan, or it could remind me of why I refused to read this author for years on end.
The story is lurid, strange, dark, and oppressive, like many Gothic horror novels are, but the suspense comes more from a psychological approach, as the reader is drawn helplessly toward a truth we want to know, need to know, but dread the knowledge, all the same.
But with all the secrets and lies at every turn will Audrina ever learn the truth of what happened to the first Audrina and escape her shadow?My Sweet Audrina is actually a reread for me as I read this one years and years ago.
The story is typical VC Andrews in which this young girl is trapped in a family with secrets and different horrors awaiting her with each turn of the page.
Full of psychologically twisted turns all throughout it's hard not to get involved in reading and wanting the answers to what had really happened to this little girl we meet in this story.
The story was as crazy as I remembered it, even crazier. Rest in Peace Ms. Andrews. You are missed.
I finished My Sweet Audrina while I was in bed last night, and after I finished, I couldn't think of how I should rate this story.
Her entire family made me so angry at times for creating this life of lies around Audrina, and truly making her believe this life.
It's amazing how people or families can corrupt others, though...I couldn't believe he would do some of the things he did when he said he loved Audrina so much.
We all know that V.C. Andrews has quite a habit of messing with our minds, but this book has taken her "talent" to a whole other level.
Andrews gets us to create predictions about what's going to happen because we begin to have no clue on what was going on, but in the end,  I was completely wrong.
DON'T CLICK ON THAT BUTTON AS LONG AS YOU READ THE BOOK OR DON'T CARE  (view spoiler)[ How can you want your cute little sister to get raped?
Audrina was a great, kick-ass character who really came out of her shell by the end of the book.
I consider myself an easy to please reader so when a book makes me feel angry you know its really bad.....Honestly, I couldn't with this book...
Honestly!!!!
I feel bad for even purchasing this book thinking it was "Horrific and Creepy" but the only thing horrific about this book is the fact that it was published.The characters were not even flawed,they were just so tedious and stupid.
I was into the main character at first but she took a tumble really fast....
Named after her dead sister, the First and Best Audrina, the Second and Worst Audrina doesn't remember anything about her first eight years.
She falls in love with the boy next door and feels all the usual VC Andrews quickening of pulses and fires down below and like all VC Andrews heroines, succumbs to the sinful pleasures of premarital and unprotected sex.
Then she discovers that she never really had a dead sister in the first place, she was just raped and her parents, not wanting her to feel the shame, just pretended she was an entirely new person after that.
I loved every second of it.
"I was giving you freedom and not once did you thank me. Not once." Buddy read with the amazing Nenia!I'd read this before as a young teenager and carried it (along with all my other V.C. Andrews books) with me through several moves. Yet I somehow retained absolutely no memory of the story.Which is probably a good thing, as there are twists and turns galore in this book, and I delighted in just about every single one. This was seriously like a soap opera. Only quite bleak at times. "It's you I
Buddy read with the amazing Nenia!I'd read this before as a young teenager and carried it (along with all my other V.C. Andrews books) with me through several moves.
Yet I somehow retained absolutely no memory of the story.Which is probably a good thing, as there are twists and turns galore in this book, and I delighted in just about every single one.
This was seriously like a soap opera.
It was also creepier than your average soap opera.
Nenia's review lists all the tropes employed, and by god there are a lot of them.The writing was actually much better than I remember, although the story did drag at times.
I read this forever ago, after reading the Flowers In the Attic series and I just remember thinking like, "This is the most intense book I have ever read.
Or probably will ever read." And I think that may hold true.THIS is a review of it that I just saw last week on Jezebel and I like, started to blush I think when it recounted some of the sex scenes.
The review has some spoilers (meaning: all of the spoilers), but I don't think that would stop you from reading this masterpiece.
YIKES THOhttp://www.frowl.org/worstbestsellers...
Ok, so some people may see my 5 star review for "My Sweet Audrina" by V.C. Andrews and think: "really????
5 stars???" And well, this isn't a masterpiece classic that will go down in the ages, but I do think it is a page-turner and is full of plain ole' good entertainment.
This is why it earned 5 stars.The following may or may not contain spoilers:Audrina is a young girl who lives in a big, dark mansion in the middle of the woods with her handsome yet overbearing father Damian, her beautiful but submissive pianist mother Lucietta, her cranky aunt Ellsbeth, and her biatch cosuin: the evil and loveable/hateable Vera.
My Sweet Audrina uses disturbing, dark and twisted gothic content for shock value more than anything else. I found the majority of this book extremely boring.
Not much happens the first half of the book, other than the main character Audrina walking around aimlessly confused, not able to make sense of anything.This repetitive action does cause the direness of the situation to ram itself further in the readers head, but it's hard to keep patience.
It's strange that somehow, to a degree, Andrew's words had the power to put me under the same spell Damian wove over the other women.It's a given the book wouldn't be as exciting since I remember the end, but I ignored that fact.
It was great seeing Audrina grow up through the years and actually learn to stick up for herself, but at the end (view spoiler)[when she just morosely heads back to her awful husband and father after nearly freeing herself of them, (hide spoiler)] it undid all the character development that came before it.Don't get me wrong, though, you're not going to read this searching for great character development or feminist themes.
This is nothing but a soap opera set in a big, creepy house; Flowers in the Attic just used those parameters a lot better.
The only Virginia Andrews book that didn't spawn a bloated series of sequels.
I think My Sweet Audrina is the best of Andrews' vast (although of course these days none of it is written by her.
I believe the first three books of the Heaven series are the last she wrote before she died.
Every other book under her name since then -the early 90s- has been written by a team of ghostwriters employed by the Andrews estate) oeuvre simply because it stands alone.
There is much shame in giving this 5 stars - but please know that it's b/c I have fond nostalgia for the time in my life when I read this, not for the quality of writing or depth of story telling.
We were on vacation one summer & my mom was reading this book (amongst several others at the time).
(I can remember sitting in the backseat at they joked about it & my mom taunting my dad with cryptic comments about the ending after she'd finished the book.) As a very rule-abiding pre-teen, I was SHOCKED.
Rapey and awful and I couldn't stop because it was like watching a car crash. A terrible rapey weird car crash where the children are too young and the cops don't care how many people fall down the stairs.
I read several Andrews books years ago as a kid and found them very engaging. This book was awful. Completely predictable. I loathed the characters. Seriously, is there no other way to die than falling down the stairs? Ugh.
An extra star for nostalgic reasons.
Yeah, I read my sister's VC Andrews books. Jealous?This one was probably the creepiest VC Andrews I read. All I remember about this book is that there was an identity crisis and sex in mud.
Actual Rating: 3.5Well this is a confusing book to review and i’m not going to try to make it the best review but I do want to at least get my thoughts out about it a little bit.I was loving this book, it sucked me in and gave me all the feels!
So that is reflected in my rating, I was going to give it about a 4.5, I was loving this book, but have settled on a 3.5 as I don’t want to deny that there were many nuggets of awesome through-out this book too!
Todo cuanto pueda decir del libro se queda corto.Amé cada momento de intriga, tensión y misterio. Si es cierto que las dos primeras partes del libro me han embrujado más que la última, esta última no me ha gustado debido al dilema que tiene Audrina en las últimas páginas. Con una decisión que esperaba que no tomaría.Y quiero dejar dos puntos claros que me parecen totalmente importantes:1) Arden, lo he terminado aborreciendo, un personaje débil que necesita de la atención de los demás para sobrevivir.2) ¿Soy la única a la que le sigue pareciendo sospechosa Sylvia?
"Oh, the tales Papa could tell me about the wonders of his first daughter, and every one he told made me know I was not the Best Audrina, not the perfect and special one- only the second and inferior one." I have a confession to make you, dear readers: I made a fatal mistake. I broke the sacred rule of the reading community, a rule generally followed by most readers.I watched the adaptation before reading the book. And it totally killed the experience.This has happened to me once before (and yo
I broke the sacred rule of the reading community, a rule generally followed by most readers.I watched the adaptation before reading the book.
I was so excited to watch the miniseries adaptation that I didn't read the book beforehand.
And that adaptation was horrendously awful that when it came time for me to read the book, I couldn't bring myself to do it.
So even though I hadn't read this book beforehand, I decided to give their latest V.C. Andrews adaptation a whirl.And man, did I regret it, because it was worse than a pile of cow manure.I beg of you, if you've read this book, DON'T WATCH THE ADAPTATION.
