https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/517061.The_Country_Girls
Warning: Possible spoilers. Though I don't think they will spoil the reading experience, if you are one of those people who wants to dive into a book without knowing anything of the story, it might be better to avoid this review. Worse than the ordinary miserable childhood is the miserable Irish childhood, and worse yet is the miserable Irish Catholic childhood.This quote is taken from Frank McCourt’s memoir Angela's Ashes, but it is equally apt for this novel by Edna O’Brien.If we look at Irel
Worse than the ordinary miserable childhood is the miserable Irish childhood, and worse yet is the miserable Irish Catholic childhood.This quote is taken from Frank McCourt’s memoir Angela's Ashes, but it is equally apt for this novel by Edna O’Brien.If we look at Ireland in the first half of the Twentieth Century, three things immediately jump out at you: crippling poverty, intense religiosity and totally dysfunctional families.
For example, this is what Caithleen has to say about her mother:...In her brown dress she looked sad, the farther I went the sadder she looked.
If you want to be a moron you can post eggs to England but they'll turn into chickens on the way."The other main relationship in this novel is one which provides a curious and interesting comment on the great discussion we had here on Goodreads in Spring this year about Lolita.
I had been looking at primrose leaves for seventeen years and I had never noticed before that their leaves were hairy and old and wrinkled.
Always on the brink of trouble I look at something, like a tree or a flower or an old shoe, to keep me from palpitating.
It's sort of your standard coming of age story, the locus here being female and Irish and from a rural, rather down-at-hell background.O'Brien, who admittedly wrote under the inspiration of Dubliners, said herself that the novel came almost as if unbidden.
Baba I enjoyed reading about but would NOT like to meet in person- sex and the single girl is all fine with me, but the kind of spiteful jealousy and emotional taunting which goes on is not my ball of wax- much less Cait's).The lights of Dublin are bright, quicksilver, people going places in hurried, expensive groups...there are always a couple of middle aged swells ready to pick up where the pervy uncles and opportunistic neighbors left off.
It was an important book for its time—published in 1960 and showing an Ireland that doesn’t exist anymore.
Women weren’t admitted to be sexual beings and weren’t supposed to criticize how their society worked.Edna O’Brien writes beautifully about the naiveté of the two rural girls when they come to the big city.
The poverty, the alcohol problems, the repression of women--The Country Girls reveals them all.
It was hanging out the dirty linen for the world to look at.Ireland is a country that is definitely on my “to visit” list.
I love reading books which are set there and I will definitely read more of O’Brien’s work.
Good dialogs.
Not only do you need good writing you need an interesting story for a novel to work.
We follow two girls, Caithleen and Baba, 14 years of age when the book opens.
This is a coming of age story, about friendship and blossoming interest in the opposite sex.
Their friendship is conflicted; they both depend on each other and quarrel.The only part of the plot I enjoyed was the beginning.
I don’t even think the friendship between the girls was that well portrayed.The author narrates her own book.
No, the narration is not good.I will not be continuing the trilogy.
NOTA FINAL: 4'5/5Creo que si algo caracteriza a Las chicas de campo es su sencillez y singularidad.
Y casi diría que es una novela entrañable.
Es una novela que hay que leer poniéndose en todo momento (y sí o sí) en la piel de las protagonistas: Caithleen y Baba (demasiado fan soy yo de este personaje).
Pues digamos que hoy en día algunos detalles (muy conservadores) que nos presenta Edna O'Brien no causan ese "escándalo" que podrían haber causado (y causaron) por aquel entonces.
Creo que es una de esas historias que hay que ir descubriendo por uno mismo.
But I guess that was Ireland, a devout Catholic country in the 60's and I know that they have lovely gardens and probably they didn't think that a penis is similar to an orchid.Guess I should not read this book.
Things only shaped up when the characters are already in the convent and planning their expulsion.I think it was not the fault of O'Brien that I did not like this novel.
One thing that I appreciated though is the first-person narrator of a 14 to 18- y/o Irish girl and I think that O'Brien was so good she was able to capture what goes on inside that young character's head.
I have been listening to Edna O'Brien read the unabridged version of this novel.
There is a purity about it, which means you have to quieten your mind and let Edna's voice fill up your senses in order to appreciate it.
You will then realise that it is a life-changing experience to ride in a car with a well-groomed man of middle age who thinks you are lovely; and that lifelong friendship can begin with the gift of a cake placed on your pillow.
If you expect any more from life, or a book, than this, then you may well be disappointed.
For the longest time, I didn't get Edna O'Brien.
This time I had no trouble becoming interested in Kate and her childhood friend Baba or their lives in rural Ireland, in convent school and in Dublin.
Ireland in the 1950s was extremely repressed, which is one reason this book was banned.
I think of this novel as a fictional twin of John McGahern's memoir All Will Be Well, which covers the same time period from a man's perspective.
For Irish-Americans raised on sentimental songs and movies about the old sod, O'Brien's fiction is an important corrective.
O romance de estreia de Edna O'Brien, banido nos anos 60, conta a história de duas amigas de uma zona rural da Irlanda, Baba é tresloucada e Caithleen demasiado influenciável e inocente.
Acredito que este livro tenha muito de autobiográfico, li algures que a autora também foi educada num convento, onde se apaixonou por uma freira.
Mesmo tendo em conta a grande influência da Igreja Católica na altura na Irlanda, muito pouco no livro justifica a censura.
Gostei desta primeira parte, mas os restantes livros da trilogia não estão traduzidos e a vontade de os adquirir na língua original não é muita, por agora este final em aberto terá de servir.
Scenes of realistic eccentricity light up the novel, such as the mother of the Kaithleen’s adoptive family, a ‘fast’ but beautiful woman called Martha, sneaking a whole roast chicken up in to her rich boudoir of velvets and silk for the children and her to eat away from the father.
O’Brien’s writing brought me directly in to Kaithleen’s world: admittedly a possible chlichéd world, comprising a spell at a stern convent school, first kisses and cows in fields, but one so personally described, and with such individual undertones, that it felt sparkling and tantalising… as I suppose life does to a 14 –year old girl coming of age.
'Las chicas de campo' es una novelita de Edna O'Brien, que causó bastante revuelo en la Irlanda natal de la autora en el momento de su publicación, porque habla sin tapujos de cosas como el despertar de la sexualidad feminina o de relaciones de adolescentes con hombres mayores casados.
Kate y Baba han sido amigas des de la infancia, por más que su amistad esté llena de envidia, egoismo, pullas y puñaladas traperas.
A veces se me hacía difícil entender por qué Kate aguantaba a Baba, pero supongo que es porque no tienen a nadie más y se necesitan la una a la otra.
The Country Girls follows the story of Cait and Baba, from their childhood in rural County Clare and convent school to Dublin as they struggle to understand live and search for love.
Young girls today may know more about the biology then Cait and Baba, but they still struggle in their search for love.
However it was the portrayal of the relationship between the girls I enjoyed most.
Cait is the typical good girl, quiet and we’ll behaved.
She needs Baba, especially in Dublin to encourage her to go out and enjoy life in the big city.
Her first novel, The Country Girls, is often credited with breaking silence on sexual matters and social issues during a repressive period in Ireland following World War II.The book was banned, burned and denounced from the pulpit, and O'Brien left Ireland behind.” O'Brien's ability to write vividly doesn't only work with landscapes, but also for people or events: I love the picture she paints of that girl on her bicycle going through town, fearing that perhaps her father had returned, but day-dreaming about Mr. Gentleman in his white house on the hill at the same time.
I had to smile when I discovered that there was a help called 'Hickey' in this book as well, and there was a similar reaction when reading about the idea of 'going for tea with the Connor girls'.I don't often drink tea.
Each chooses their own path in life, with Cate vowing for love, while Baba seeks adventure as a loner.Just to keep in mind: We are 15-year-olds writing this review as a school project, but we have read the book and analyzed it’s pros and cons in school, with that in mind let’s get started!PlotAs mentioned above the book follows Cathleen and Baba as they grow up in Ireland together.
By all means, a book that does actually tell a realistic story is very inspiring, however, I’m sure you can imagine that for people in our age group it does end up getting dull after a while.(2/5) StyleWe actually liked the style of the book, because it’s simple yet intricate at the same time.
Friendship, enmity, sexism, complicated relationships and all the other experiences that belong to growing-up – all in one book.The Country Girls written by Edna O’Brien in the 1960s is probably the most hardcore realism we have ever read.
We read this book in school and discussed it and here is our review on the book.The main characters, Baba and Caithleen, have a hard time deciding if they are friends or enemies.
Overall, we didn’t quite enjoy reading the book itself, but the background and themes it addresses are interesting.
A scholarship allows Caithleen to leave to a convent, together with Bridget Brennan.
She blindly follows her dominating “frenemy”, Bridget, aka Baba, to quit her sanctimonious “education” (sorry, we’re atheists) by outrageously breaking social conventions at that time.
The novel addresses many horrific issues, which are still now on the change.We thought the book was interesting and intellectual, in terms of how hard a woman’s life was back then.
Lastly, it was hard to sympathize with Caithleen, because of her naiveté and always following Baba, as well as the circumstances she lives in.
Irish girl meets world Rating: 3 out of 5 starsI would recommend this book for children from the age of fourteen to fifteen since it contains certain sexual innuendos and may have some swearing.Country Girls, written by Edna O’Brien, is a coming of age story, which is a fiction book, full of drama and emotions and reflecting the oppression of women during the World War II in Ireland.
I would recommend this book to those people who love drama and can handle the unfortunate events which occur in this book.
I really enjoyed reading this book. It's an easy read from my point of view, without missing the depth of greatly described feelings and emotions. Cannot wait for the second part.
I don’t have much to say about this other than that it was a bit weird and I feel like it’s one of those books you need to analyse deeply to understand the full meaning of what the author was trying to convey. I’m aware that this is a trilogy though I don’t have much desire to continue with the series. Would recommend if you’re interested in reading books that focus on social issues, particularly in relation to Ireland.
Most likely because of what this trilogy had to say about the truly dismal lives of girls who grew into womanhood under the shadow of a darkly repressive church and a rural culture filled with narrow-minded ignorance, mistrust and helplessness.
The main characters are Kate and Baba two young girls from a small village in the West of Ireland and we watch them grow up and try to escape their extremely narrow and depressing rural Catholic upbringing by moving to Dublin, eventually ending up in London.
It's a story of nostalgia and loneliness and growing up, but it's undramatic and subdued, and even the meanness and carelessness people can display is handled as par for the course; that makes it all the more hurtful.At the same time, it's delightfully visual, which might be helped by the fact that I (sort of, during the summer) know the country environment O'Brien's talking about, I know how it looks and feels - suffocating yet liberating.And then the city, and freedom and lights and money and style.Cait and Baba are interesting protagonists, although the reader obviously gets to know the former, who narrates the story, much more in depth than the latter.They're somewhat stereotypical: sweet, weak Cait who later shows a surprising amount of backbone and balls and other body parts, and Baba, who's quite simply a bitch.
«El cielo quedaba allá arriba», diría una de 'Las chicas de campo' que Edna O'Brien sitúa en el albor de la vida adulta en una Irlanda profunda, ajena al horizonte dublinés, contenida en un «manto de nubes de plumas» y el rosa cálido que revelan los fogonazos de un sol que decae.
El transcurso de los días en esta atmósfera vehemente de O'Brien se distingue aquí «por el hecho de que tras los cristales lloviese o cayesen las hojas».
La escritora irlandesa compone la emoción de las pequeñas cosas, como cuando lo que ansiamos es simplemente una sombra o que llegue por fin ese día que parecía tan lejano.
Dopo circa 40 pagine avrei voluto abbandonarlo, e credo di averlo finito solo per forza di inerzia, oltre che per un antipaticissimo desiderio di scrivere che non mi era piaciuto. Arrivare al finale, per altro scontatissimo, è stata una liberazione.Non fraintendetemi: il romanzo è scritto bene, e se inquadrato all'interno del contesto socio-culturale entro il quale è germinato acquista un senso ben preciso, ma per me questo non è sufficiente. A me non è piaciuto per nulla, purtroppo.Continua a leggere qui:http://devoandarealeggere.blogspot.it...
La mia è una voce fuori dal coro perchè questo romanzo non mi è piaciuto. Mi è sembrato quasi inconsistente nella sua mancanza di trama, tanto da non riuscire ad affezionarmi alle due giovani protagoniste. La loro ricerca di emancipazione non mi ha convinto e il finale così troncato, praticamente tagliato con l'accetta mi sa troppo di espediente commerciale. Dubito che completerò la trilogia.
I was once an 18-year-old, and this tender story of strained friendship and romantic realization struck a deep chord. As an adult, you want to shake the characters by the shoulders and say life will get better. But, will it? There are two more books in this trilogy... :-)
Deseando leer las continuaciones :D

It's so similar to my reaction to Now in November, also a book I was hoping to really like, that comparing the two is the only way I can explain it.
Both are short but well-written literary books with a strong sense of place, grounded in the natural world--the Irish setting here is particularly vivid and beautifully described, both visually and culturally, and I enjoyed all the little household details.
There are things that happen, but there's no plot in the sense of having a throughline, a method.
The book really captures rural Ireland, even an Ireland I can remember and have seen despite being quite so old.
From the girls asking "What is he?" about the mysterious handsome blacksmith who's still single well past marriage age, right up to the dressmaker's potential destroying of Caithleen's pieces of fabric out of sheer badness.
From this to the expectations placed on the girls to carry everyone along all the time while still being shut behind doors, in convents, or locked into loveless marriages, the book really portrays the Ireland of the day stripped of romanticism.However, as much of a social commentary the book was, it also captured the beauty of Ireland.
