https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/979470.Stig_of_the_Dump
Another great book from my school days. Stig Of The Dump was adapted into a mini series on TV and I used to rush home from school to watch it. This was before even video recording was available to the public so, one had to watch it while is was airing. I had an evening paper round and at least once a week; blame Stig Of The Dump; I was very late. Shop keeper never understood. I lied and told him I had chess club which was half true but, on a different day. 👍🐯
I remember this fondly from when I was a little boy.RIP Clive King"Stig of the Dump has never been out of print and has sold more than 2 million copies since it was published in 1963."https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/entertainm...
Instead, I was wowed by the levels of humour and social commentary and astute observation and depth within this story.I love it when children's books show insights into how kids' minds work - so often they are so focused on the child being a strong person that the odd little quirks and vulnerabilities and irrationalities of childhood are overlooked.
And he realises too that Stig is actually a lot more 'rough' than these boys!I found the ending rather bizarre - but not in a bad way.
A delightfully little story about a eight year old boy, Barney.
He is a curious boy, with a desire to explore, and is told not to go too close to the edge of the quarry.
He does get too close though, and falls down to the bottom.
They raid the rubbish dump at the bottom, disturb a fox hunt, and capture an escaped animal from a circus amongst other scrapes.Part of a challenge where you had to read a book from your childhood, this was one that I had fond memories of, and amazingly I could still remember details of the story several decades on.
Stig of the dump is a fantastic read for children and adults alike, it is a brilliant book to read aloud to both KS1 and KS2 children and as an independent read for KS2 level.
For instance my Year 2 class, following the first chapter read aloud, began to design a multitude of inventions and equipment that could be made out of recycled materials, based on Stig's creations.
Although do not let this put you off as Stig of the Dump is a great read and a fantastic resource.
Unphased by who Stig might be or where he came from, Barney wants to help and support his friend with adapting his home in the dump, hunting and enjoying his time playing and learning with and from him.
I am aware that Stig of the Dump has been reprinted often and even adapted for television but, for me, the chemistry of Ardizzone and King is unbeatable and I won't bother looking anywhere else if I want to go off on an adventure with Barney again.
We enjoyed it but felt it lacked something, perhaps it was the style of writing, it lacked anything we found poetic or magical.
We felt it left lots unexplained.
We felt sorry for Stig and kept wondering why Barney didn't take him a coat or boots or a sleeping bag or some nice hot food !
The scene that stuck in my mind was Barney taking Stig jam jars, and the way they were made into a window.
We liked the caveman's observation that killing a fox was pointless as they taste bad, and the way he says this through mime !
Another fabulous wallow in childhood nostalgia! All the children's books I'm currently reading are ones I read aged 8 - 10 - and have never forgotten, the stories had such an impact on my youthful self.
Its was great fun when I was a kid, and it is still great fun now that I am a very big kid! The difference is that it takes less time to read now.
I chose to read and review it as it's one of the more challenging books that managed to entice me at primary school.The book tells the story of eight year old Barney who stumbles across a solitary caveman called Stig in the dump at the bottom of his Grandmother's garden.
This combined with the presence of the odd phonetically irregular word I would view Stig of the Dump as most suited to the later stages of Key Stage Two for the independent reader, however the story is certainly exciting enough that younger children would enjoy it being read to them.The central theme of the book is a wonderful story of friendship and trust between Barney and Stig, despite the vast differences that separate them.
Read in Primary 5 with Mrs McKie
This book is the story of a boy called Barney who finds a cave man living in a dump in the local chalk pits.
Another issue that Primary teachers will need to be aware of is the fact that the language in the book is not modern and may therefore present problems for younger readers.The ending of the novel describes a mysterious and magical event involving stone age cave men dragging stones into an upright position until they disappear with the dawning of Midsummer’s Day leaving only Stig behind with Barney and Lou who had also joined this expedition.
The book is a bit old fashioned by today's standards, and Barney is what people would regards as 'posh' - for example, his sister rides to hounds in one chapter, though the hunt is undermined by Stig's actions in saving the fox, because he only hunts animals that are good to eat.
Though the end is a bit odd - if Stig is not an outcast, and manages to go back to his own time, why does he then come back to Barney's?
Young Barney falls in touch with a Stone Age lad. They hit it off and keep company from time to time. The final 1/4 of the tale takes wing into magic wonder time.
The story ends with a magical experience where the children are transported to stone age Britain to witness the creation of Stone Henge by stone age peoples.It is a wonderful story that captures the joy of building and making and gives the reader a sense the possibilities available for making things for themselves out of the tools at hand.
It has a fantastic magical element as Stig the caveman's appearance in the dump is never really explained and the wonderful scene at the end of the story, where you learn how men transported huge rocks across the country using only ropes and poles, is vivid and exciting.There is a lot of wonderful risk taking in the story which will appeal to most adventurous children.
How?I was reminded of this book when thinking about stories with environmental themes in my childhood.
Rereading it I realize that there are other themes too.
Friendship, loyalty, appreciation for the other, connection of people to a place.Stig lives in a former quarry where people toss their trash.
As the book progresses Stig helps Barney in his modern world until the magnificent ending on midsummer's eve.
I wonder how this book has helped youngsters better appreciate prehistoric features like Stonehenge?
I love the ending which ties Stig to the modern population and made me think of a Stig in my life.
I found this book really easy to read and I was truly disappointed when I finished reading it. The characters are so believable and lovely and it will definitely be a book that I will be reading again.
As a child I remember reading Stig Of The Dump and I became completely obsessed with the concept of a cave man living in the nearby tips near to my house.
I’d look at the tall hill and smile thinking that one day I’d find a stig lurking in the overgrowth.
Stig is a character from my childhood that started my love of using my imagination to think that anything is possible.
Clive King is a genius in his way of telling the story of Barney and Stig.
Read this, love this and be influenced by the unique story of Stig and his new pal Barney.
Barney finds Stig by accidently falling into the quarry and through the roof of Stig’s den.
Barney enjoys his time with Stig as they do a number of interesting things together such as; improving ‘Stigs’ den, collecting firewood, scaring a young group of boys’, catching some burglars who were attempting to steal Barney’s grandmothers silverwares and by going hunting.
This makes it an ideal choice to use within the classroom, as a number of activities can be constructed with this book.
In summary this book is well suited for a Key Stage 2 class and offers many possible activities and opportunities for students to explore their thinking.
This book is pretty interesting and I laughed a few times early on, especially at the incongruity of Barney wondering whether Stig might have a clothes-brush for getting rid of chalk dust.
He is curious about Stig without judgment.
This disbelief compounded with plenty of spare time frees Barney up for various interludes with Stig.
I think a huge difference coming to this as an adult rather than a child, is that I was fearful for Stig all along.
My knowledge of the adult world meant that surely his time in the chalk pit was limited.
Additionally I was madly curious about Stig.
This book tells the tale of Barney, a young boy who begins a friendship with a caveman named Stig.
Barney falls over the edge of the chalk pit quarry and lands into the rubbish filled den that Stig calls home.
Barney is delighted to have made a friend like Stig because he isn’t like anyone he knows at all.
It is a charming read and the children will be fascinated by the mysteries and adventures.
After reading the book, it will make you want to be involved in their adventures.
I would recommend this exciting book for children aged between eight and ten.
Stig of the Dump is a classic piece of children's fiction, reminding me of the innocence of times gone by.
As a result, I don't think it would appeal to the "modern child," but I enjoyed the adventures and moments of drama that unfolded.
The basics of the story revolve around a young boy and his new friend he meets whilst out exploring - a caveman like creature whom he names Stig.
I also enjoyed the story where Barney and his sister Lou go to a fancy dress party, his sister as a leopard.
Whilst reading this book I kept noting the amount of cross-curricular links it has, with many areas that could be explored with KS1 and KS2.
This includes exploring language barriers through drama and junk modelling to recreate Stig's den, with a focus on the use of natural and man-made materials.
An area in the classroom could also be transformed into Stig's den itself with the use of the junk modelling, providing further opportunities for imaginative play.
I remember reading and enjoying it when I was younger but couldn't recall anything about it, so thought I'd give it a go.
Each chapter recounts another adventure from simple tool building, to dealing with bullies, fox hunting and fancy dress parties.
These read well and are very easy to relate to having once been a young boy with an active imagination.
The disbelief from his sister and Barney's simple acceptance of the situations he finds himself in are wonderful.The real surprise though is the final adventure on a moonlight Midsummer's Night.
I had forgotten this magical adventure and it forms a lovely ending to a great book.
Stig of the Dump was one of the more challenging books that managed to captivate my imagination at primary school.
The book is about 8 years old Barney who befriends a caveman called Stig living in the dump at the bottom of his Grandmother's garden.
The book takes the form of a novel with many illustrative sketches at the beginning of each chapter and throughout.
I would recommend Stig of the Dump to independent readers in year 5 or 6.
Stig of the Dump teaches that common ground and friendships can always be found, irrespective of where people come from.
I really like the way it's written.
This one of his books was about a boy called Barney who fell down a chalk pi into a dump and found a cave man called Stig.
It was funny, for Stig didn't understand what he was saying, and it was funny when Stig decorated his cave with the evidence Barney's house had been robbed!
But the police investigated it, and Barney got the stuff back, so it was okay.I think everyone should read this!
It's not written in a hard way, so eight year olds could read it as well as twelve year olds.
This is a lovely read. The story was very vivid and believable to me, I could imagine Stig's little house/den so much. Barney is an interesting character and I feel he would be such a great little boy to know. Overall, really nice read and not too difficult to read either. I remember watching the series on BBC but the book is much much better and I'm glad I have read it now.
I can not believe I had not read this book before! I loved the book and all the descriptive language enabled me to really picture the characters and setting. The only part that rather disappointed me was the ending as it changed the book for me - from a naive adventure story of overcoming hardship and building friendships to a fantasy story, which I did not enjoy at all.
I bought this book many years ago for my son who has autism.At that time he didn't have much interest in books but there was something about this one that he loved.I was so impressed that I bought extra copies of the book for other children to enjoy.Really loved this book. Recommended.
Delightful story. Just a bit disappointed it seemingly turned a corner with its story, and then stopped in a hurried way. nice characters. Love the innocence of the adventurous boy. lovely essence in this day of suspicion.
