https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15154.The_Collectors
The whole first half of The Collectors, I was thinking how are these two storylines going to connect? I was loving both of them on their own but wasn't sure where David Baldacci was going with it. When it finally happened I was like, wow I didn't see that coming. The book begins with the murder of the Speaker of the House and then Caleb Shaw's boss, Jonathan DeHaven is also found dead in the Library of Congress's Rare Books room. When Caleb sees his boss's body, Caleb passes out. His three frie
The whole first half of The Collectors, I was thinking how are these two storylines going to connect?
I was loving both of them on their own but wasn't sure where David Baldacci was going with it.
While the Camel Club is going in one direction, another plot emerges.
Jerry is well known for his lack of compassion and if it is up to him, anyone messing with his casino will pay with their own lives.When the two stories collided, I couldn't put the book down.
Annabelle was a fantastic asset to the story- and to the Camel Club.
I wasn't a fan of the first book but with the addition of Annabelle and I'm all in.
I just love David Baldacci.
I think he is my guilty pleasure when it comes to books.
The first part of this book, I was trying and trying to figure out how the two seemingly disconnected stories were going to tie together, and then BAM.
Never saw it coming.
This is the second installment of their adventures, and I just love every minute of it.
I also love Baldacci's pacing (although it has cost me many a late night).
After reading this, I want to go to the Library of Congress reading room and peruse a book!
This is the second installment to feature the Camel Club, a small group of Washington, D.C. civilian misfits led by "Oliver Stone", a former CIA trained assassin.
The Speaker has been killed by a sniper at a party while the head of the rare books collection dies from "unknown circumstances." Oliver Stone and the Camel Club become suspicious, although initially they indulge what they believe is his overactive imagination.
I got to page 117.
I realized it was time to quit when I found myself thinking, "Gee I really should read a few pages in that book I'm working on, but I'd rather clean the bathroom." With all due respect to Mr. Baldacci.
But apparently I'm not going to be one of them.So far, what we've got is a dead body in a locked room and two groups of people running around like gangs of middle school kids, playing at being grownups.
I really don't care who killed the librarian.My apologies to Baldacci fans.
Anytime I read a book from cover-to-cover in just a couple of days, I obviously enjoyed it.
I don't mean the plot--I will never understand how people come up with such a twisting, complex tale--but the characters just seemed so pedestrian to me.
Obviously a book like this is not going to contain charaters that are dynamic because it is all about the plot.
I just felt like all the banter between the characters was, well, weak.
I will probably read this author again (this one is already set up for a sequel), but I'm not running out and getting it right away.

This book started out well but then fizzled out.
A librarian is found dead in the rare books section of the Smithsonian.
The Camel Club begins to put some of the pieces together when they team up with a beautiful woman who's interested in finding out who killed the librarian.
As the Camel Club dig deeper in to the clues they discover there's no conspiracy going on, but find out there may be espionage involved...but how are the librarian and the congressman connected.
The book was well written, but the plot seemed a bit farfetched.
But I still enjoyed the book.
I do think it would be best if readers begin the series with book one, rather than plunge directly into this novel because there is not much time devoted to describing the various quirks of the main characters.
I would be afraid that without the background development from book one, readers might think these Camel Club guys are just plain weird versus understanding how their peculiar personalities and characteristics actually lead to progress in resolving the plot.I chose this book to read during a business trip because I always feel confident that Baldacci can hold my attention throughout the ordeal of crowded airports and cramped plane seats as I make my way across the country.
Review to come after completion of the series because this book is a cliff hanger to the next and I love the series.
Another tale of the slightly ramshackle group called the Camel Club, led by the long retired CIA operative, Oliver Stone. Investigating the murder in the Library of Congress of a senior work colleague of one of the group, they stumble into a spy ring and need the help of the ex-wife of the victim, herself in hiding after a successful con trick in Atlantic City. A little over-convoluted at times, Baldacci keeps the narrative moving at pace, as usual.
Before reading any of his books, I was all set to become a David Baldacci cheerleader.
But, far from the diamond-sharp dialogue and pacesetting plot I’d been expecting, the book turned out to be as thrilling as a damp dishcloth.The main story surrounds an investigation by a group of conspiracy theorists into a death at the Library of Congress in Washington.
But right from the start Baldacci’s clunky writing gets in the way of the story.
Other reviewers have claimed that this isn’t Baldacci at his best, and it could be this wasn't the right place to start on his books.
The Camel Club can really place themselves in harms way; the sights of a killer.A spy ring in Washington, D.
C. Has caught the attention of Oliver Stone and he never backs down from getting to the truth of the matter.
Along with Oliver is Reuben, Caleb, Milton and now Annabelle (read the book!) whose bringing her skills to the group.
Annabelle needs to inform them of her previous activities.
Jerry Bagget, her last con job, is right on her tail because of Tony's mistake.Starts off slow but brings you to the threshold of action, suspense and a better understanding as to why everything happened the way it did.
This novel is both a thriller and a mystery.
However, in this novel, Baldacci centers most of the attention on Caleb Shaw, who happens to be a Rare Books librarian at the Library of Congress.
And it is fascinating to watch Baldacci take this character through the physical stress and moral ambiguousness of the spy game in which he finds himself an unwilling and central figure.Throughout the novel, Baldacci’s writing is both tight and informative.
He blends the technical or historical background information that he deems necessary for the progression of the storyline into the conversations of the characters and into their internal monologues.
Anything about libraries and old books will guarantee you my interest, I'll admit that. When I started reading the book it seemed more like a typical thriller with assassinations and intrigues. I was hopeful there would be some more involvement of, well, libraries and books. But despite being set in the Library of Congress and (view spoiler)[ the actually minor plot point with the Psalm Book. I was really disappointed. (hide spoiler)] this book could have been set in any location. The Library ju
Anything about libraries and old books will guarantee you my interest, I'll admit that.
When I started reading the book it seemed more like a typical thriller with assassinations and intrigues.
But despite being set in the Library of Congress and (view spoiler)[ the actually minor plot point with the Psalm Book.
(hide spoiler)] this book could have been set in any location.
The Library just added some difficulty, but still, what a wasted opportunity for such a setting.
(hide spoiler)]All in all, 08/15 Thriller in a special setting, though that goes to waste.
Sequel to "The Camel Club"Soon after the Speaker of the House is assassinated, Caleb Shaw a quiet librarian stumbles upon the body of his boss Jonathan DeHaven at the Library of Congress narrowly escaping the same fate.
"The Camel Club" group promptly sets out to investigate and it becomes a race to stop a man who is determined to auction off America to the highest bidder.On a local level, Annabelle Conroy, a gifted con artist, is out to pull off a major con against a ruthlessly violent casino boss.
She eventually meets up with the Camel Club after she attends the funeral of Jonathan DeHaven (her ex husband).
Oliver Stones suspects there is a link between the assassination of the U.S Speaker of the House and the director of the Library of Congress rare books room.
The Camel Club is joined by Annabelle Conroy, a con-artist who should be running for her life, but is instead aiding the group to solve this mystery.
All the members of the Camel Club lives are threaten by a ruthless enemy that once worked for the same ultra secret organization as Oliver Stone.
David Baldacci has the amazing ability to thrill and surprise in his novels and never disappoints with his Camel Club series.
Sneaky Mr. Balducci: His first book in the Camel Club series was a passable airport read - not quite enthralling enough to warrant a commitment to the whole series, but just good enough to convince me I should check out the second in the series, in the hope that things get better...The Collectors started off much better than its predecessor, but quickly became bogged down in mediocre narrative and predictable exposition.
I was intrigued by a few newly introduced characters, but resolved to end my investment in the Camel Club series as soon as this story was done.That is where Mr. Balducci pulled his clever scam: While the core plotline is indeed resolved in this book, albeit with a somewhat pedestrian denouement, the secondary plotline is left purposefully unresolved.
Read the review of the entire Camel Club series at my my blogThe Collectors is a perfectly acceptable entry in a perfectly acceptable series.
It stars the same four main characters from The Camel Club with an new character added to mix things up.
I found some of the main characters to have mysteriously changed from the previous book.
Milton no longer displays OCD behaviour and is a lot more assertive.
But, this is a book that does not take itself seriously and, I guess, neither should I.It was fun to read and that's all that matters
I really had fun with this one. It was great to dig into yet another Baldacci book. The pacing was really nice, and I enjoyed the story. Got lost amidst some of the character names, but seeing as I'm being ridiculous and reading the second book before the first, well. XP There was some sexual material in there, which, I guess, depending on your view, might be seen as somewhat obtrusive, but personally, most of it didn't bother me. Anyway, yeah. That's it. =P
I was hoping to get into this series a little more than I am. I couldn't get through the first one but I did manage to get through this one it just wasn't as interesting as the other books I have read from Baldacci.
1.5 - 2 stars because there were some memorable characters but the story wow so ridiculous.
Another great read. The Camel Club is awesome at watching the government!
I'm not going to say this book wasn't completely lacking in entertainment value--but it came pretty close.
I've read other books by David Baldacci(Absolute Power) and none of those had writing that made me cringe.
Anyway--the storyline reeked of someone who spent a lot of time in Washington DC and wanted to write something filled with Da Vinci Code/National Treasuresesque intrigue.
He spent a lot of time describing people's pasts and not enough time showing through actions who the people really were.
Baldacci has all those details down and I love the Library of Congress so that was a plus.
If I could give a book a six star rating I would.
Very few books recently have captured me so thoroughly that I stayed up all night finishing it.
It is also incredibly rare that I think the second book of a series is so much better than the first.The most amazing thing to me about this book is that he manages to tell a complete and complex story, and simultaneously develops the beginning of a third story that leaves me drooling at the mouth in anticipation of its completion.
I got the satisfaction of a story well told and he still kicked my ass with a cliffhanger leaving me begging for more.
It took me a little while to get started in "the flow" of reading this D.C. suspense novel involving the sale of our national secrets AND a woman leading a long con against a casino owner. When all the disparate elements came together, I began devouring this book to see how it would end. I plan to read the sequel, as it will illuminate how the "Camel Club" will deal with the enraged casino owner.
One of the Camel Club mysteries. It was good.
Damn plot reeled me in. But listen. Old South Church's Bay Psalm Book is held at the Boston Public Library. This isn't a spoiler it's a plot hole.
Not read - passed on.
The story ends (for better or worse) on a completely unresolved plot issue guaranteed to provide the opening for a sequel and return encounter with the Camel Club, Annabelle Conroy and an infuriated Jerry Bagger.Like most thrillers, The Collectors requires a certain amount of suspension of belief and an acceptance of coincidence but the story is so entertaining that I found myself quite forgiving.
I enjoy a good, steamy sex scene from time to time in a thriller but Baldacci's writing in this area was so laboured, so trite and so rigidly choreographed that it sounded more like a laughable rehearsal for a bad back alley B-movie!One weakness notwithstanding, The Collectors was a thoroughly entertaining novel that will have me waiting in line for its sequel.Paul Weiss
I'm really looking forward to listening to the next audiobook in the series, Stone Cold.On a crazy side note, I have some odd coincidences in the books I choose to read and when I choose to read them.
In this case, I was thrilled to note that one of the very rare books featured in this story was one that I had recently learned about in my eclectic reading adventures.
I first read about the Bay Psalm Book when I read the story "The Press's Widow" in the book Colonial Comics: New England, 1620 - 1750.
