https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/166362.The_Crescent_Moon
The Crescent Moon and Stray Birds, Rabindranath TagoreRabindranath Tagore also written Ravīndranātha Thākura (7 May 1861 – 7 August 1941), sobriquet Gurudev, was a Bengali polymath who reshaped Bengali literature and music, as well as Indian art with Contextual Modernism in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
Sometimes referred to as "the Bard of Bengal", Tagore's poetic songs were viewed as spiritual and mercurial; however, his "elegant prose and magical poetry" remain largely unknown outside Bengal.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیست و پنجم ماه سپتامبر سال 1996 میلادیعنوان: ماه نو و مرغان آواره؛ نویسنده: رابیندرانات تاگور؛ مترجم: عین الله پاشائی؛ تهران، روایت، 1374؛ در 148 ص؛ چاپ دیگر: نشر ثالث 1389، در 270 ص؛ شابک: 9789643806835؛ موضوع: شعر شاعران بنگالی - سده 20 مرابیندرانات تاگور بزرگترین شاعر ایالت بنگال هستند، ایشان به دو زبان هندی و بنگالی شعر می‌سرودند و اشعار خود را به انگلیسی نیز ترجمه می‌کردند.
دوستانِ گرانقدر، بنظرم اشعارِ «تاگور» به دو بخش تقسیم شده است و البته پراکنده از یکدیگر نیز میباشدبخش اول: بخشی که میتوان سخنان و اشعارِ برگرفته از موضوعاتِ خرافی و موهوماتِ دینی و خزعبلاتِ مذهبی و بخصوص هندو را در آنها به آشکار دید، مانندِ شعرِ زیر که سخنِ شمارۀ 242 از این کتاب است و اشاره به جهانِ موهومِ پس از مرگ دارد و البته اعتقادِ هندوان که هر انسان مطابق با رفتارش در زندگیِ دیگر در قالبِ موجوداتِ گوناگون به زندگی بازگشته و در جهانِ بعد هر شخصی زندگیِ متفاوتی را داردشعرِ شمارۀ 242: این زند
مانندِ شعرِ شمارۀ 21 و 141 ‎شعرِ شمارۀ 21: آنان که فانوسشان را بر پشت میبرند، سایه هاشان پیشِ پایِشان می افتد‎شعرِ شمارۀ 141: جاده در انبوه جمعیت تنهاست، چراکه دوستش ندارند-------------------------------------------------‎در هر صورت برخی از جملات و سخنانِ این کتاب اخلاقی و زیبا است، ولی متأسفانه یکسری از سخنان نیز مدام از آفرینش و خرافات و موهوماتِ دینی سخن به میان آورده است ....
Of the seemingly governing heavenly bodies that grace our diurnal lives, it is, in innumerable instances, the Moon that stands as the epitome of womanhood, and by necessary operation, motherhood.
But in the cyclic fabric of the Lunar phases, everything may, inevitably, stand for beginnings and endings.This is what The Crescent Moon contains, poems and rhapsodies about motherhood and their children in varying degrees of this supreme bond.
Verses talk about a baby’s heavenly birth, a child’s charming precociousness, a mother’s concern, and the inevitable bittersweet sadness over the emotional transition of a child growing up, the beginnings and endings of the mother and child relationship.
I absolutely love Tagore's "Gitanjali" I was slightly underwelmed by this in comparison as several of the poems were quite, well, boring to me. However, a handful were absolutely exquisite! (Would be interesting to reread this as a mother.)
شاید بشه گفت یک سوم نوشته هاش به دلم نشست ولی اون یک سوم عالی بودن
Tender and lyrical Bengalese prose poems about both sides of the mother-child relationship.The initial poems are from the mother's perspective, delighting in her baby at play and at rest, in laughter and in tears.
Now I think I know.Here's a sample:The smile that flickers on baby's lips when he sleeps--does anybody know where it was born?
Yes, there is a rumour that a young pale beam of a crescent moon touched the edge of a vanishing autumn cloud, and there the smile was first born in the dream of a dew-washed morning--the smile that flickers on baby's lips when he sleeps.
The poetry collection “The Crescent Moon” contains a number of introspective poems. Tagore wrestles with the world and his feelings, those around him and himself. My favorite poems are:“The Home”I paced alone on the road across the field while the sunset was hiding its last gold like a miser. The daylight sank deeper and deeper into the darkness, and the widowed land, whose harvest had been reaped, lay silent. Suddenly a boy’s shrill voice rose into the sky. He traversed the dark unseen, leaving
I stopped for a moment in my lonely way under the starlight, and saw spread before me the darkened earth surrounding with her arms countless homes furnished with cradles and beds, mothers’ hearts and evening lamps, and young lives glad with a gladness that knows nothing of its value for the world.“When and Why”When I bring you coloured toys, my child, I understand why there is such a play of coulours on clouds, on water, and why flowers are painted in tints—when I give coloured toys to you, my child.
I will never come to you when you call me, and never let you feed me any more.If I were only a little green parrot, and not your baby, mother dear, would you keep me chained lest I should fly away?Would you shake your finger at me and say, "What an ungrateful wretch of a bird!
They were as much the translator's fault as Tagore's, but they really impeded my enjoyment of the poetry.
(My copy is a 1950 reprint of a prose translation - maybe the original translation?)For example, the constant use of 'fairy' and 'fairyland'.
So, even when I'm trying to convert the European fairies into Bengali ones, I'm inundated with mental images that come from gift cards and children's TV shows.
But even this could be the translator's doing.Nevertheless, the writing can be excellent very often, and when Tagore succeeds in evoking the adventure and wonder of childhood, he succeeds with aplomb.

Giving the Child a Voice of TendernessSo respected has Bengali poet Rabindranath Tagore's writings and philosophy been that he was the first Easterner to win the Nobel Prize.
Though "Gitanjali" and "The Gardener" rank among his most famous works, this little gem is not to be overlooked.
Tagore shows a sympathetic understanding of children's feelings and fantasy akin to Robert Louis Stevenson ("A Child's Garden of Verse"), Janusz Korczak ("King Matt" and "When I Am Little Again"), and Federico Garcia Lorca ("The Cricket Sings") in such poems as "The Home" and "Crescent Moon." Tagore's voice is one of patience, empathy, and tenderness.
There are many lovely poems in this collection, but strikes me most is the focus on the parent-child relationship. This is a pervasive theme throughout the book. There a wonderful poems exploring the beauty of a child's world, poems exploring challenges of the parent-child relationship, and poems of transitions and death in the parent-child relationship. Nearly every poem in this short collection brought thoughts, memories, and emotions connected to my sons. In general, this is a great poetry book, but for parents it is particularly a wonderful gem.
An immensely beautiful collection of poems where a mother talks to her infant, and then the child grows and tells her all his stories & little observations. Towards the end, the mother talks to her adolescent child, giving away little pearls of wisdom.It's a very tender narrative of emotions and a deep unseen love.
It is a collection of poems that center around a mother and her child, those tender words and language that pass between the two. It has a few illustrations, the likes of which are not seen today.I say this with the utmost respect to the genius of Tagore, that I did not quite enjoy these collection of poems.I am sure that the original work, in Bengali, must be delightful.
Most of the poems have wondrous imagery and lovely lines. The illustrations are quite nice. I think it would serve as a good book to read to a very small child because it would likely be enjoyable to the parent as well, as the theme is childhood and child-rearing. Overall, a very pretty book.
ماهی در آب خاموش است وچارپا روی خاک هیاهو می کند وپرنده در آسمان آواز می خواندآدمیاماخاموشی دریا وهیاهوی خاک وموسیقی آسمان را در خود داردصدای توای دوستدر دل من آواره استمثل آوای درهم دریابین این کاج های گوش کنندهجهان بیرون نمی تراودبرای اینکه مرگشکاف نیست
Kindle Ebook
Beautiful poems - parental observation of their child's world imagined through the child's eyes.
When i read the poems in this Crescent Moon,I again go to my early childwood days...GURUDEV always great...
It is quite simply beautiful.http://ashramblings.blogspot.com/2011...http://ashramblings.blogspot.com/2010...
Beautiful collection of poems depicting innocence of childhood..........
One can feel and enjoy the utter innocence of the child hood...
A beautiful collection of children's poems
"I too am searching for the "Old Man". And will keep searching till we meet and greet other joyously!"
Wonderful book, especially to listen to when read orally by Depak Chopra.
"And when my voice is silent in death,my song will speak in your living heart."
A must for all the mothers.
While in prime of his life, Tagore lost his favorite child(a daughter), his son and his wife in separate incidents.
Tagore(and his children) grew up in a zamindari - all of them surrounded by trees, fairy tales and flowering gardens.
The theme is undoubtedly childhood, but the poems take on a different form altogether.
Tagore mixes all these emotions beautifully.
Slowly, I am coming to realize how deeply Tagore was experiencing the world.
His poems remind me that innocence, sweetness, purity and love are the things that really matter in this world.
I've no memory of where I picked this up, but it's a collection of poems about childhood by a Bengali guy who was the first Asian to win the Nobel Prize in Literature.
The collection is from 1913 but has aged really well--it doesn't feel dated or stuffy.
But his imagery is strikingly gorgeous: "the fierce lighting is scratching the sky with its nails" says one poem, while another says "the mountain stays and remembers." If you find yourself with a chance to read Tagore's work, do so.
Tagore translated all these into English himself and the quiet power of his imagination shines in this collection.
Poems of innocence and childhood. They fill your heart with wonder, awe and love.
