https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10034.The_Age_of_Reason
Nobody shops for sheets in the summer, I guess, because I spent a lot of time doing absolutely nothing.
My boyfriend used to write me letters and send me to work with them so that I would have something to read.
Well that got old so one day when I was poking around the props (you know - how they set up the entire fancy-pants mock bedrooms?) I found a copy of this book on a table.
A lot of people think Sartre is heavy but I found it to be a quite enjoyable summer read.
Daniel, a strange character who has never managed to establish a normal connection with the world, has been hovering on the edge of suicide for some time.
But he can't just leave his three cats to starve to death, so he puts them in a wicker basket and takes them down to the river to drown them.
The basket is too small, and he can hear them fighting and complaining inside.
He trudges back home with his heavy basket and opens it.
In the middle of all the commotion, he's also managed to get himself scatched, and it hurts.
The vivacity and vividness with which Sartre paints each one of his characters amidst their existential exigencies leaves behind their ever-lasting impressions on the fertile mental space.
His characters are a god-forsaken lot, condemned, abandoned and carrying on their shoulders the ‘burden’ of their freedoms.
The story revolves around Mathieu in this philosophical background and brings to fore his existential struggles along with those of the characters linked directly or remotely to his life.
There are far too many memorable moments that leave an indelible mark along with the questions and reflections to ponder a long time after the last page is turned over.To put it succinctly, ‘Age of Reason’ moves from,"Yes - you want to be free.
سن الرشد ..... جان بول سارترالكتب لم توضع كي نؤمن بما تقوله، ولكن كي نتحرى فيها، لا يجب أن نتساءل أمام كتاب ماذا يقول، ولكن ماذا يريد أن يقول.هذه الرواية لم تُخلق ليُكتب عنها، بل وُجدت لتٌقرأ وتُقرأ فقط لنعيش في أجواءها.ملحمة من العلاقات الإنسانية شديدة التعقيد والتداخل تدور أحداثها في فترة فوضوية انعكستفوضويتها على شخوصها.هي رواية عن الحب والرغبة والجبن، رواية عن الإنسان في كافة مراحل حياته.روايةتشعر أمامها انها تتحدث عنك انت، لا غيرك.رواية صعب تكتب عنها، أو تتحدث حتى عنها لانها ببساطة هي من تتحدث.
This is basically a soap opera with brains and direction, which is my favorite kind of book ever.
I didn't read this as an exemplification of Sartre's philosophy, but rather as a study of the philosophy of the characters in the story.
None of these people are truly likable, but they are all the more human because of that.
Even the most agreeable people think disagreeable thoughts.
I am pretty much still sitting here in awe at the complexity of Sartre's understanding of human motivation.
I'm pretty sure most people wouldn't have been able to make such a mundane plot so engaging.
Introduction--The Age of Reason
"او ميان سكوتي خوفناك تنها بود،آزاد و تنها،بدون كمك و بدون بهانه،محكوم به تصميم گيري بدون استمداد،مح
The constant proving to oneself that this life is worthwhile, that the hopes of the past and the dreams of the future won't go to waste.
Mathieu keeps to his belief of freedom, to be capable of anything, no matter what constraints have been laid across his living by emotional bonds and societal dictations and past history.
In the end he achieves this freedom, and finds that he no longer believes in it.
In achieving his freedom, he sacrificed for nothing, a nothing that provides a clean a break from everything that had been forcing him into a situation that was no longer; and for what?
نظریات اگزیستانسیالیستی سارتر در قالب رمان.شخصیت دانیل شباهت داشت به استاروگین داستایوسکی.
I don’t think I’ve ever finished a book on such a low note.
I could talk about the plot, but the plot doesn’t matter, it’s the subtext that does – this nagging regret of a life not lived; a life that has amounted to nothing because of a protagonist who bases every life decision on excessive forethought, a habit that steers him away from making any decision on a whim.This whole book is about our freedom to make the choices we want to make but never do; about our deep need for change but secret desire to stay the same.
We meet Mathieu, a philosophy teacher living in a bohemian Paris that is between wars and in the midst of a heat wave.
Like Ian Curtis bellowing out the prolific Joy Division song Heart And Soul, (lyric: 'Existence well what does it matter/I exist on the best terms I can/the past is now part of my future/the present is well out of hand') Mathieu seems to be a man without a past or a future, a man living between parenthesis who is so fearful of "existing too much" that he ceases to exist at all.
This is Sartre challenging the reader to explain Mathieu's anomalous motives, whilst highlighting the pointlessness of existence itself.
This is Sartre forcing you to analyze your own life, which is essentially why this novel is an absolute must read.
An existential read at its finest.
The first part of his Freedom series should be required reading for any existentialist approaching his mid-30s without any aspirations of marrying or falling in line.
Mathieu, a French philosophy professor, spends most of the novel trying to borrow money so he can pay for his mistresses' abortion.
But what makes this book so great is that Mathieu eventually returns to his former self.
Clocking in at more than 400 pages, it can be a rough read.
But the final scene of a freed Mathieu undoing his tie while he contemplates and savors his failure to attach himself to anything is brilliant.

Apparently the BBC aired this series of books back in the 70s but now there is a conspiracy of silence as to just why it is not available. sourceAll that I have found is a documentary here. Easy to see the free-press roots of Charlie Hebdo in this and aren't we all vehemently against terrorism in all its forms? Sartre in his later years endorsed attacks as 'the atomic bomb of the poor.'Seems like a flip-flop to me. He was a man for and of a tiny window in on-going history.
The Age of Reason constantly debates what the idea of freedom is for a man. Whether growing old means one should make every decision with reason or simply reconciliation. Set in the backdrop of Second World War, the characters seem completely oblivious, choosing to live their insular lives with their selfish ambitions - chasing their own version of freedom. Seen from an individual's perspective, freedom seems justified but not entirely when contrasted to humanity. Sartre's thinking makes for a timeless read. His ideas still feel so relevant even in this age.
Jean-Paul Sartre's The Age of Reason combines the author's existentialist investigations along with an analysis of human relations, continuing the philosophical intensity of Dostoevsky's complex melodramas.
However, instead of an emphasis on religious morality and redemption, Sartre opts for a colder, more atheistic tone all under the threatening heat of the impending war.
Sartre's tightly structured, dialogue-heavy novel works well in order to showcase his rather blunt but well observed viewpoints on freedom and human motives, even if at times it reads like a play.
The Age of Reason features some brilliant set pieces, characterization and scenes that resonate long after putting the book down.
I wouldn't call this novel beautiful because the characters are so tedious, but the story is strangely captivating.
It reminded me why we should all tame our runaway thoughts.
If, as this book and existentialist theory would have us believe, the most profound philosophical condition revolves around individual thought, then our philosophical condition can be so silly.
Superfluous even.
Jean-Paul Sarte writes about really capable people who are fundamentally insecure, petulant, and selfish.
They are far too relatable, to be honest, and I am grateful for the reminder about the sniveling, self-loathing, and self-pitying nature that can come a little too easy to all of us.
مرعبة ، عظيمة ، تقدّس سارتر.
خمیازه کشید، روزش را به پایان رسانده بود.
با جوانی اش خداحافظی کرده بود.
از هم اکنون اصول اخلاقی آزمایش شده بآرامی خدمات خود را به او عرضه میکردند، در میان آنها، اصول بهره گیری صحیح از لذایذ زندگی ،اغماض توام با لبخند، طرز فکر جدی، مقاومت و پایداری در برابر شداید، همه چیزهایی که اجازه میدهد دقیقه به دقیقه بعنوان یک متخصص طعم یک زندگی ناموفق را چشید، وجود داشت، کتش را درآورد و شروع به باز کردن گره کرواتش نمود.در حالیکه خمیازه میکشید بخود میگفت :"درست است ، واقعا درست است، من به سن عقل رسیده ام(آخرین بند کتاب)
A middle-classed white man finds life difficult, because annoying unattractive women either don't fall in love with him, or fall in love too easily, or just go and get pregnant as soon as you fuck them. Life is so damn unfair because one can't just do whatever one likes without consequences. Oh, and life beyond 30 is pointless.
Özgürlük değerlidir, evet ama feda edilenlere değer mi? Mathieu'nun hayatın getirdiklerini omuzlarına yük etmeden, bağlanmadan yaşamak uğruna harcadıkları...Varoluşçuluk türünün güzel örneklerinden. Peşinde olunan ise her şeye rağmen "özgürlük".Özgürlük Yolları serisinin diğer 2 kitabı da okuma listemde.Okuyun, tavsiye ederim.
S’era semplicemente interrotta, fluttuava, piena di gridi senza eco e d’inefficaci speranze, di oscuri splendori, di figure e di odori scaduti, fluttuava ai margini del mondo, tra parentesi, indimenticabile e definitiva più indistruttibile di un minerale e nulla poteva impedirle di essere stata, aveva subìta la sua ultima metamorfosi: fissato era ormai il suo avvenire.”“Ancora oggi, i più antichi giorni della sua infanzia, quel giorno in cui aveva detto: sarò libero, sarò grande, gli apparivano con il loro particolare avvenire, e quell’avvenire era lui, lui com’era adesso, stanco e maturo, essi avevano dei diritti su di lui e egli provava spesso schiaccianti rimorsi perché il suo presente svogliato e scettico era il vecchio avvenire di quei giorni passati”“ogni giorno era una nuova delusione per quegli antichi sogli di grandezza ed ogni giorno aveva un nuovo avvenire, di attesa in attesa, di avvenire in avvenire, la vita di Matteo scorreva… verso che cosa?
Quando a sua amante engravida, ele vê-se perante um dilema sem respostas fáceis.Para mim o enredo deste livro e o estilo de prosa são tremendos.
Em poucos dias Mathieu (e outras personagens) vêem-se perante essas decisões, , e isso dá num livro emocionante e de enredo intrincado.
Também devo referir os momentos de prosa «stream of consciousness» que são excelentes também.Os outros livros da trilogia Os Caminhos da Liberdade também são muito bons, mas este é uma obra-prima.
Mathieu the main character is not an appealing character he is a philosophy professor in Paris.
The other characters Daniel, Boris, Ivich, Marcelle and Lola are all unappealing.
Mathieu goes to his brother and others for the money and struggles to get the money.
There are memorable scenes with Daniel’s dilemma to get rid of his three cats.
Mathieu and Ivich visit to a Gauguin exhibition and later the knife scene in the nightclub.
Boris and is petty theft.
Daniel and the open razor, Marcelle whether she wants the baby and all are about choice and individual will surrounded by life going on with or without them.
| سارترالتشبُّث بالشباب كان وظيفة كل شخصيات الجزء الأول من ثلاثية سارتر “سن الرشد”، إذ تمسّكت به مارسيل الفتاة العليلة حبيسة المنزل لأن الموت يترصدها خارجه عبر التمسك بحملها الذي لم يكن مخططًا له، ولا مرغوبًا من قِبل شريكها، بينما تمسكت به إيفيش عبر العبث والإهتمام المبالغ فيه بنفسها، أما لولا فقد كانت تحافظ على شبابها عبر حب شابٍ أصغر منها، لتثبت لنفسها في كل يومٍ لا يهجرها فيه بأنها ما تزال في شبابها.
ومن ثم يجيء ماتيو، حبيس سن الرشد الذي ما كان ليمانعه لولا خشيته من فقد كنزه الأعظم: الحرية.
وهذا ما جعله يتهرّب من أي التزامٍ يفرض عليه من قِبل علاقاته جميعًا.
One of my favorites. However, I only appreciated it once I reached a certain level of maturity. It dives into the deeper consciousness of each character underneath the basic thoughts. It makes you realize how insecure and all over the place all of humanity really is. The message I get from this book is "Miserable? You are not alone."
The Essence of Freedom25 November 2013 This is probably one of the first Satre books that I have read, and while I am not tearing through the bookshops (and libraries) looking for more of his work, I must say that it was a interesting read. I guess there are a couple of reasons it took me so long to get to Satre and one of them would be that since a lot of my friends were either Christians (or basically didn't read) then all I would hear is how evil and bad Satre is, and that by reading Satre yo
Other times it simply never happens, and the person simply ends up drifting around the world living in some sort of dream, never actually defining themselves, and never having a purpose or a point.
To me I may not feel joy for them (because I generally do not base my happiness upon other people's joy, but rather upon my own state of mind, and the freedom that I give myself through having control over my mind and over my thoughts) but I understand that is their choice, and that is to live the ordinary life.
Son derece kuru ve tatsız buldum romanı. Sartre'ın çizdiği karakterler kartondan bile değil; yazarın Varoluşçuluk üzerine geliştirdiği fikirleri satır aralarında tekrar edip duruyorlar ve onları sadece bu bağlamda, hezeyanlar içinde görebiliyoruz. Ayrıca karakterleri ortaya çıkaran sosyal ve ekonomik koşullar da romanda yok. Ne burjuva toplumu analizi ne de bir karakter derinliği var tek cümleyle özetleyecek olursam. Sartre'dan daha zekice bir şey bekliyor insan.
The novel, set in the bohemian Paris of the late 1930s, focuses on three days in the life of a philosophy teacher named Mathieu who is seeking money to pay for an abortion for his mistress, Marcelle.
The novel is concerned with Sartre's conception of freedom as the ultimate aim of human existence; the existentialist notion of ultimate freedom through presenting a detailed account of the characters' psychologies as they are forced to make significant decisions in their lives.
