https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7543.The_Psychology_of_Winning
Winners relax, pick themselves up, brush themselves off… and do it all over again.~ People dominated by stress are unable to change the world they live in.
The only choice is the kind of life one would care to spend one's efforts on.~ Winners are wide open to choices, and constantly look for a better way to live.~ Conceit is God's gift to shallow people.~ Winners understand that self~development is a lifetime program.
Treat nature more carefully and tenderly ~ she is precariously balancing our future survival.~ By expecting the best, you are preparing yourself physically and mentally for the demands of winning.~ Leadership ~ attracting other people's support and cooperation ~ is a natural byproduct of positive self~expectancy ~ Winners say "I was good today.
I've read this book several times. The first being in college, while training for peer leadership programs. An amazing mentor and professor, Dr. David Brown had this book, among other greats, on the reading list. This book has been part of my self-evolution through and through. Raw, real, and in your face wake up call...to the true YOU, that has always been calling your name. Thumbs and toes up. Ready set, READ THIS BOOK!
This resulted in the writing of this book.From Positive Self-awareness to Positive Self-projection, Dr. Waitley explains their meaning and uses real life examples to drive the point home.
At the end of each chapter he gives a review.
He then writes out a list of action items for the reader to improve that particular quality.
The action items make this a book that cannot be returned to the bookshelf after having been read.
Like Dr. Waitley says at the end of his "wrapup" --- "So now that you've read it - go out and do it."


Excellent read and already one of my all time fav rags to riches stories... Right up there with think and grow rich this one I think but easier to follow and some sound succeess principles, 5 stars as typically found when I read dennis's boomWaseem Mirzahttp://www.WaseemMirza.net
Good book, although I suspect I'll get a lot more out of it if I read it several times! Especially fond of the chapter about health and the mental control we can exert it...
This is great stuff. Although this book tackles themes that have been addressed in earlier and more comprehensive books, there are few books as good as this in terms of streamlining the necessary data important in transforming one's psychology towards positivity in thought and in deed.
There is still great content in the book that any sales professional can glean information from.The term "winners" and "winning" has been transformed into a sort of joke in late life thanks to people like Charlie Sheen and movies like Little Miss Sunshine.
And though you may think this book is such a concept it isn't that at all.Though the author does use the terms "winners" vs "losers" I like the contrasting writing style showing both habits because the sum of our lives is in reality what we do daily.
Denis Waitley shows what habits "winners" do vs "losers".
This very short work outlines what the author has defined as the 10 qualities of a winner.
While the chapters define each quality and then offer steps to take action to develop/reinforce these qualities it seemed to me that several of the qualities were indistinguishable from each other.
The book offers good advice and is aptly named since the action steps are very oriented towards the psychology of winning and a general application of the actions suggested.
This is a dated book that contains characters that modern readers may not know about, old ideas and incorrect information, for example only using 10% of your brain which is false. The Language is also dated; I would personally have given another title for this book, maybe “Character traits of achievers”. Given its age the books is still a good and a fast read with 10 chapters for each trait.• Self-awareness• Self-esteem• Self-control• Self-motivation• Self-expectancy• Self-image• Self-direction•
This is a dated book that contains characters that modern readers may not know about, old ideas and incorrect information, for example only using 10% of your brain which is false. The Language is also dated; I would personally have given another title for this book, maybe “Character traits of achievers”. Given its age the books is still a good and a fast read with 10 chapters for each trait.•	Self-awareness•	Self-esteem•	Self-control•	Self-motivation•	Self-expectancy•	Self-image•	Self-direction•	Self-discipline•	Self-dimension•	Self-projection
EXCELLENTE!!!
Good book. A lot of examples. Inspiring.
helped me have a more positive outlook on life. A must read!
An intellectual self help classic. With a step by step program for changing your life. One of the best!
I listened to the Nightingale program and took notes and these are some pretty good ideas on how to be a winner in life.One of the qualities of a winner as Denis Waitley suggests is positive self expectancy and that's immediately applicable as a practice by creating expectations for the experiences in your life.I gave it 5 stars because I feel as if I am better off having listened to this than not. It has a great reputation in the personal development and professional development community because it provides a great role model of winning to emulate.
Stay ahead of change.Adapt to the the C's (Change complexity and competition)Become a lifelong learner.Be a proactive innovator (10% of population)You are your own financial security.Losers let things happen, winners make things happen.Winners believe they are in charge of their life.Develop a simple, affirmative self talk vocab about yourself.
Good if you've never read a mindset book before. There's much better books out there. Most of these books like this one use the same examples. I did get a few nuggets out of it, but wasn't a book that completely changed my daily actions.
Do you want to win?
Really good & simple to read.
While The Psychology of Winning is an older book (1979), its advice on creating a winning thought pattern, and winning life in turn, is timeless.
With game changing steps on how to practice positive self-awareness, self-control, and self-projection, it is unlikely that one won't take at least a small amount away from this book that changes their life for the better.
Just as the Author Dr. Denis Waitley suggests, this is a terrific book (of the same caliber as Think and Grow Rich or How to Win Friends and Influence People) that should not be read once and left destined to sit idly on the shelf, but to be read on a monthly or yearly basis to further entrench the positive and winning message found within.
The Psychology of Winning by Dr. Denis Waitley was a great non-fiction book that deserves five stars.
It kept my attention and I enjoyed reading it because throughout my reading I was influenced to look over my life and review how I was living it.
I enjoyed it, and I know you will too.
It's mostly minimalistic writing that conveys a great message that is fun and easy to read, so it's really a shame if you don't at least give this book a look.
Napoleon Hill for the 90s.
It's really just Napoleon Hill made scientific (through the deepity of behavioral psychology).
The discussions of the datedness of this book are hilarious because (1) it's from the 90s (he mentions that this info will probably be valid in 2020, lol) and (2) because the information in it is heavily based on OOOOLLLLDDD info.
Like Greek, 1800s, Egyptians, etc.
It's also funny to me that if science knows this much about consciousness, winning, and success why hypnosis is still considered so "woo-woo".
but even Psychology Today made that mistake and had to redact some "new" therapy methods.
This is another rare occurrence where I've read a book for the second time, albeit decades apart.
At its core, this book is about personal responsibility.
You, and only you, are responsible for your life, your success and your ultimate results.
If you are not as successful or as satisfied as you would like with your life, then it's on you.
The good news: You have the power to change your life....right now.
Dennis Waitley's message is empowering, inspiring, practical and real.
It is a timeless message.
It is an honest message.
It is ultimately an optimistic message.
A VERY good book.
Although written a while ago--these principles are indeed universal and always relevant. It is good to see a book that helps us see things differently--in such a way that, without ignoring what is really happening, it provides the correct perspective so that we do not lose hope and keep plugging along. This is an excellent book for just about anyone--it can only do good to you. We should definitely read it more than once--as we need to practice what's in it--not juts read it and understand it.
Although I would not take his advice when it comes to faith, Denis does have a very motivational writing style and makes some key points about Winners. They are:- eager to learn- honest, aligning thought, word, and action- confident, having a strong belief system- responsible, not waiting for someone else to do it- motivated (money does not equal success)- focused on goals, not distracted by time-wasting activities- consistent, expecting to achieve success- caring and service-oriented.Find your purpose and pursue it passionately!
I enjoyed this book, good stuff!favorite new points were plan your life and focus all energy on your goalthe psychology of winningyou interpert realitybe grateful for past achievements and know specifically what your goals areset a goal and work on it every day constantly making sure you're on the right trackchallengs are vital to lifewinners are optimists and enthusiasticfocus all energy on your goal and mission - finish what your startplan your life - Think about the big picturekeep journaling - it advances your prorgres and personal development
I just listened to the audiobook version of this, and I can't recommend it enough. I've read a few self help books, but this my favorite so far. It's not very long, and I will definitely end up re-reading it before long (and I don't do that very often). Denis touches on all important topics such as motivation, self-esteem, and having a positive mindset. It is really straightforward, and has absolutely had a positive impact on my perception of life and other people.
One powerful and very interesting book full of principles which are already said once, twice. If they are said a lot of times, it's possible to be a lie but and in the same moment it's possible and not to be a lie. In one of the notes by Brian Johnson are share very interestitng stuff for the author Denis Waitley, like he is famous. He is studying this, he is person who influences people for such type of stuff and many other things!
I have read many self-help and personal development books over the years and I almost just passed this up, as it sat on my shelves for a number of years. I finally picked it up and was instantly impressed by not only the quality of the content, but the style of prose. This could take the place of many of my other books, and contains more wisdom in fewer pages than most that I have read.
