https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/123074.Evangelism_the_Sovereignty_of_God
J.I. Packer delivers a comprehensive, but still brief, explanation of the seemingly incompatible relationship between human responsibility in evangelism and God’s sovereignty in salvation.
There are many Christians who say that believers who emphasize the sovereignty of grace and unconditional election do so to the neglect of human responsibility and divine accountability.
(I used to be one of them!) Packer explains how this can be attributed to an incomplete understanding of these two biblical doctrines; they are actually “friends” and work alongside one another.
In reading this book, I feel like I have found a biblically sound explanation of these topics…and I think the Holy Spirit agrees!
A stout, plain-spoken defense of limited atonement and irresistible grace framed by a discussion of the necessity, technique, and goal of evangelism. Biblical fundamentals in an inclusive format, perfect for starting conversations.
The Bible emphasises BOTH; therefore we must believe and teach both.One of the best sections of the book is Packer's explanation of the difference between paradox and antinomy.
Grasping the concept of antinomy is key to understanding how these two truths (or, in Spurgeon's words, these "friends") work together.Armed with the knowledge that God is sovereign AND man is responsible, Packer focuses on what this means for the evangelistic efforts of Christians: "Far from making evangelism pointless, the sovereignty of God in grace is the one thing that prevents evangelism from being pointless.
I read this book at the perfect time. I had been recently thinking through the questions that this book is all about. Definitely recommend it to anyone thinking through the relationship between God’s sovereignty and how that helps us understand evangelism better. Not the most exciting read but I learned a lot!
Very helpful, as I tend to be fearful in evangelizing, holding tightly to the idea that it just isn't my spiritual gifting. This book spurs me on to pray for more opportunities to share, to pray for those who will hear, and to pray that I would trust that His Word does not return void.
Depending on the background of the reader, this book could be either eye-opening, infuriating, or a great way to refocus on the fundamentals of evangelism.Eye-opening for those who have never considered the sovereignty of God in evangelism, infuriating for those who strongly disagree with it, and refocusing for those who know it already.I was in the latter camp, so that is the perspective the review will be written from.The author takes the first half of the book to explain three truths can exist together: God is sovereign in evangelism, Christians should evangelize, and those who do not follow Christ are responsible for their sin and lack of faith and will be judged.He then moves on to explain the definition of evangelism, and finally the method of evangelism.Reiterating over these fundamental principles of evangelism was beneficial.
In chapter 2 he outlines the classic antinomy of God's sovereignty vs human responsibility -- two concepts which are clearly biblical truths, but cannot be reconciled by human logic.
If we overemphasise God's sovereignty, our evangelism ceases all together as unnecessary.
Finally Packer delves into the most profound issue -- how do we view evangelism in light of God's sovereignty?
Evangelism, he says, without God's sovereignty, would be a complete and total waste of time with no hope of success, but in fact God's sovereignty should fill us with great confidence as we share our faith.
"Were it not for the sovereign grace of God, evangelism would be the most futile and useless enterprise that the world has ever seen, and there would be no more complete waste of time under the sun than to preach the Christian gospel." - J.
I. PackerThis book has challenged my approach in how I share the gospel of Jesus Christ.
This has quickly become one of my favorite books.
If you want a really good book on evangelism and the role that believers play and the ultimate role God plays - I would suggest picking this book up and reading it.
This is a short read and a helpful treatment of God's sovereignty and man's responsibility. It help deconstruct caricatures of views of evangelism.
This was an excellent treatment of the doctrine of God's Sovereignty and evangelism.
I would recommend this to those who are new to the doctrines of Grace, or those (especially) who believe themselves opposed to the idea of God's Sovereignty in salvation and the implications on evangelism.I had one small quibble with Mr. Packer.
On page 81/81, he goes into "friendship evangelism" suggesting that we have to win the right to share the Gospel in person to person evangelism.
This idea contradicts every example we have in the Scriptures, and even contradicts things he (Mr. Packer) goes on to say in his book.
Otherwise, an excellent tome.
What an excellent read. Packer does an excellent job of connecting, as the title suggests, the sovereignty of God and evangelism. I won't attempt to summarize the book but rather will encourage anyone wanting to challenge their understanding of evangelism in light of who God is to read this great book. After reading this book, I feel encouraged to pray more, develop more meaningful relationships with others without such fear around sharing the gospel, and having patience in knowing salvation is in God's hands and not my own.
This book is a must read for every Christian. It provides a good balance between doctrine, theology and biblical insight into a very important topic.
To have published a single literary work that becomes a classic is a notable accomplishment. Publishing two gives the writer a corner on contemporary Christians’ reading lists. James Inverness Packer has accomplished just that. Packer is well-known for his landmark book,  Knowing God , which first was published in 1973. This is not a review of that book, but if you have not read it you should.  Evangelism and the Sovereignty of God  (first published, 1961) is the other classic Packer has written
Packer fully delivers on the promise to deal with the questions, and in doing so he faithfully and powerfully represents the biblical gospel.The final chapter, Divine Sovereignty and Evangelism, demonstrates that, far from being a damper on our evangelism, a good understanding of God’s sovereign role stokes the flames of our passion to tell the message.
This book is not a “gotcha!” to be used to win a debate; rather, it is a powerful, positive, pastoral accounting of what must remain a divine mystery: God’s absolute sovereignty, and our undeniable responsibility to evangelize.
Excellent!!! It is one of the most practical theology books (and only 127 pages!) that I've ever read! Every Christian should (re)read it!
J.I. Packer clearly explains the relationship between divine sovereignty and human responsibility as an antimony; that is, both are true and from the bible and seem to contradict each other, yet they don't.
It needed, therefore, to be taught.” -p.47“Evangelizing … is not simply a matter of teaching, and instructing, and imparting information to the mind.
Evangelizing includes the endeavor to elicit a response to the truth taught.
It is a matter, not merely of informing, but also of inviting.” –p.50“Such was evangelism according to Paul: going out in love, as Christ’s agent in the world, to teach sinners the truth of the gospel with a view to converting and saving them.”
Awesome and refreshing read.
Packer does an awesome job at holding the two concepts of man's responsibility and divine sovereignty together in truth.
Packer provided awesome logical arguments for God's sovereignty and human responsibility in evangelism and he also comforted and compelled me to take the gospel forth to the nations, reminding me that my job is to herald the good news while I trust that God (who promises that he is with me until the end of the age) will, in his wisdom, change chosen hearts in his appointed time.
Great book on our role in evangelism, which is unquestionably the work of God. The author warns against both extremes (trying to evangelize on our own power using the latest techniques and foregoing evangelism altogether because it it God who turns hearts) and presents a solid Biblical middle ground.
He argues that the doctrine of divine sovereignty and our evangelistic duty are not opposites, but work together for the salvation of souls in a Biblical manner.
The only thing I regret about this book is that it was written prior to the Boston Movement.
Good book that successfully refutes the anti-Calvinist assertion that the doctrines of unconditional election, effectual calling, and particular redemption somehow impede the motivation of evangelism. However, the book cripples its own argument by an odd insistence that the truths of God's sovereignty and man's responsibility form an insoluble antinomy in Scripture. Ironically, I think Packer, in this very book, does a pretty good job of showing how the two doctrines logically cohere. (For a clearer, more detailed study of this issue, see Gordon H. Clark's "Religion, Reason, and Revelation.) Aside from this misstep, Packer's volume is excellent.
This is an excellent book! Seriously, after personally hearing that those who hold to God sovereignty in salvation shouldn't believe in evangelism, this book does an excellent and fair job of completely destroying that false premise. I only wish I read it earlier, this has given me more confidence in my evangelism and soothed my soul for the times when there was no fruit visible when evangelizing. Whether you believe in election or not, this is a important read to combat against such a false premise that God's sovereignty and evangelism can't go hand and hand.
Though some believe that a high view of God's sovereignty discourages evangelism and promotes fatalism, Packer argues in his book "... The sovereignty of God in grace is the one thing that prevents evangelism from being pointless. For it creates the possibility-- indeed, the certainty-- that evangelism will be fruitful." I found this book to be very encouraging and refreshing to be reminded of the truth of the Gospel. God's sovereignty motivates me to go forth in boldness, declaring The Gospel, knowing that some will be saved by His grace.
I loved this book. There is a reason that it is an evangelical classic. Packer tackles some big theological territory in only few pages. It strengthened my belief in the sovereignty of God, encouraged me to engage in evangelism, and shepherded my heart closer to Christ.I highly recommend it.
Simply excellent!There are only a few books that I would recommend for all Christians to read. This is most definitely one of them.If someone asks me for a book on evangelism, I recommend this one.If someone asks me for a book on the sovereignty of God, I recommend this one.Truly a must read. You will enjoy it and be blessed.
Easily the best book I've ever read on evangelism. Packer is clear, concise, profoundly theological and yet practical at the same time. Only 122 pages yet brilliantly outlines how God's sovereignty fits perfectly with the commands to evangelize. Our evangelism (and our Christian faith) must hold together God's sovereignty and human responsibility in tension, as the Bible does.
Saber que Deus é soberano na salvação nos encoraja, nos traz paciência, nos consola e nos traz perseverança para continuarmos a fazer a nossa tarefa, que é anunciar as boas-novas! Os frutos surgirão da graça divina e ocorrerão para a glória de Deus!
Packer does a good job dealing with the relation between evangelism and the sovereignty of God, namely, that God's sovereignty and man's responsibility do not conflict, but complement each other (despite the antinomy they create), and that God's sovereignty gives us our only hope in evangelism.
Wrestling with some questions and this book is very helpful about a Christian believer's role in light of the doctrine of God's sovereign control over everything.
I don’t think God has called me to be a Calvinist.
Packer simply answers the issue - if God has already predestined things, why evangelise? He answers it neatly and succinctly.
This is an excellent little book. Focused. Helpful. Practical. It will be a good one to re-read periodically.
Read back in 2011, and just read again in 2015. Went from a 4-star to a 5-star. Great book.
