https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/335919.Wasp
If you can stomach that, then Wasp is a great read, a real gem of its era.If you need another testament to the quality of this book, Neil Gaiman optioned it for a film some time back, but let his rights lapse after the World Trade Center attacks.
As great a book as this is, the world is not ready for a movie where the central hero is a successful terrorist.
The controller tells the agent that they want him to be that wasp, and inflict similar damage on the Sirians using minimal resources.They drop him on the enemy planet along with his box of tricks, and he gets to work making it look like there is a huge, sinister resistance movement.
Once he's got them sufficiently softened up, he delivers his pièce de resistance: a genuine mine that sinks a large ship, followed by a horde of clever little sea-going devices that from a distance look like periscopes poked up by submarines.
By the time the real human invasion fleet arrives, they only put up token resistance.
But can Mowry, one man against an entire planet, carry out his task, before the Gestapo-like Sirian secret police, the Kaitempi (actually, probably a nod to the Japanese secret police of WW2, the Kempeitai), capture him, torture him for information, and summarily do away with him on their strangling block?Writing in his "Ultimate Guide to Science Fiction," Scottish critic David Pringle says of "Wasp": "…One brilliant Earthman confounds the stupid Sirian enemy...an amusing but chauvinistic tale, with a distinct flavour of World War II heroics." Well, this reader would only half agree with that assessment.
Για αρχή παρήγγειλα τρία κλασικά μυθιστορήματα επιστημονικής φαντασίας, αυτά που ήταν πιο ψηλά στη λίστα με τα βιβλία των συγκεκριμένων εκδόσεων που ήθελα κάποια στιγμή να αποκτήσω.
Λοιπόν, το "Σφήκα" είναι ένα από τα πιο ψυχαγωγικά και απολαυστικά μυθιστορήματα επιστημονικής φαντασίας που έχω διαβάσει.
Μπορεί να πει κανείς ότι το βιβλίο λειτουργεί και σαν μια αλληγορία για την παράνοια που επικρατούσε τη δεκαετία του '50, ενώ ταυτόχρονα δείχνει πως λειτουργούν οι προβοκάτορες και οι σαμποτέρ.
4.5 stars. A classic (and controversial) SF tale focusing on the use of "terrorism" as a way to bring about the downfall of an evil alien government. Well written and a lot of fun. Recommended!!
Summary: EF Russell's best-known book, Wasp is an excellently told story of one man working undercover in wartime to build enemy paranoia and confusion in preparation to a (less-bloody) invasion.
Eric Frank Russell worked in British military intelligence during WWII, in a group that dreamt up strange tricks to counter Axis intelligence.
As one of the most inventive minds in that era's SF scene and a strong believer in human ingenuity, he must have been fabulous at it.This story follows James Mowry, a somewhat-unwilling recruit in Earth's war against the Sirian empire.
Mowry is asked to be that wasp to the Sirians.
Just to avoid any controversy, Russell created a far away planet (Planet Jaimec) on which our protagonist (or is he?) must practice his 'skills' of terrorism for the whole humanity.Now let me just leave you with one of the gems from the novel (don't worry, it won't spoil anything, the dialogue takes place in the first chapter itself):"Finally, let's consider this auto smash up.
Compared with a human being, the wasp's size is minute, its strength negligible.
Nevertheless, that wasp killed four big men and converted a large, powerful car into a heap of scrap." "I see the point, but where do I come in?" "Right here," said Wolf.
"We want you to become a wasp."
Great book. Loved this quote: "It looked as if he was doomed to become a hero from sheer lack of courage to be a coward."
Sometimes, when you read too much about Hubbard and Scientologists being creepy, you have to clink out and read some Golden Age SF.This one's actually a lot of fun: Terrans (why never "earth"?) are at war with the Sirians, who are technologically behind but make that up in bigger numbers (gee, I wonder on which political conflict of the 1950s this is based).
No overtly heroic stuff, that was unexpected from books of the era - you would expect the guy with the chiseled chin to ride off into the sunset with the love of his life.Of course, since it's Golden Age SF the protagonist is one-dimensional (feelings are boring, characters are boring, let's have more story), overpowered (unlimited money!
I'm in the mood for science fiction, so I got this classic on my Kindle.
Wasp meets the basic standard for enjoyable reading: a coherent story that kept me engaged.
I wouldn't even classify this as science fiction.
The story is about a guy chosen by his government (Earth) to be a lone terrorist against the enemy (an alien planet).
However, as a citizen of a country that has been the target of terrorism, I couldn't help empathizing with the aliens, too.
They were obviously the bad guys, the aggressors, and had no humanity.
3.5 *
By doing insignificant things in suitable circumstances one can obtain results monstrously in excess of the effort.""We can never gain victory Ailey by postponing defeat.""You'll be crammed to the gills with everything likely to be useful to you: weapons, explosives, sabotage, propaganda, psychological warfare, map reading, compass reading, camouflage, judo, radio techniques, and maybe a dozen other subjects.""You will have no contacts, so you won't be able to betray anyone to the Kaitempi.
In the future, Earth is at war with Sirian Empire, a fascist police state. A human secret agent, James Mowry, after being recruited and trained as a subversive is sent to planet Jaimec. His mission is to cause domestic chaos among the Sirians, foment unrest in order to faciliate a Terran attack. Singlehandedly, Mowry creates the illusion of a revolutionary organization, Dirac Angestan Gesept. The "live long" valediction is a wonderful foreshadowing for Star Trek's "live long and prosper."
"It would be a very long time before anyone, especially in America, was ready for a terrorist hero" points out Lisa Tuttle in her introduction to this 1957 novel, as an explanation as to why Neil Gaiman never got around to making a movie of it despite purchasing the rights.
So James Mowry, who was born on a planet in the Sirian Empire, is dispatched to do his patriotic duty - which he proceeds to do with a vengeance, inventing an imaginary terrorist organization, assassinating high-ranking officials, and generally doing all he can to undermine the Sirian war effort.And, as a reader, I couldn't help but cheer him along.
Specifically, it's a great study of how masses of people *actually* behave when there's a great big looming terrorist threat out there.A lone agent, whose body structure kind of matches that of Sirians, an alien race humanity is waging war against, is sent to infiltrate the Sirian totalitarian society and cause trouble.
It also feels that the book is just parodying the real-world totalitarianism while the topic was still current in post-war years - it's not exactly a remarkable book in scifi world-building sense, the story might have been as well set in Earth.
This book is meant to be Russell's finest work.
There society is exactly the same in every way as Hitler's Germany and the aliens are virtually identical to humans and basically identical socially and psychologically.
That makes them seem like the least alien aliens ever, and it would have worked better if they weren't alien at all.
The book reminds me of Ian Fleming's Bond books in the way it treats espionage.
Its probably better than some works by more celebrated science fiction authors of the 50s, but its really only for people who like this time in Science Fiction.
I wasn't sure if the book would hold up over time, especially as the subject of terrorism holds new feelings since this was written.We talked about the background and the boys loved the book as did I on what has to be a 15th read ;-) I was surprised at how fresh the book felt and how well the plot and the humor worked after all these years.
I read the story in an anthology of Russell's work and now want to work my way through everything again.
My grandson are now reading Three to Conquer so that may have to be next up for me too.
-Visión entrañable pero poco actual.-Género. Ciencia-Ficción.Lo que nos cuenta. James Mowry es reclutado por el Servicio Secreto, debido a sus antecedentes, historial y personalidad, para llevar a cabo acciones de subversión y desestabilización entre la Mancomunidad Siriana con la que la Tierra está en guerra. Tras su adiestramiento técnico, una nave le deposita en el planeta Jaimec y comienza su labor empezando por pequeñas cosas.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
Laba klasiska diversanta dienasgrāmata. Mazliet atgādina kaut ko starp Šakāļa diena un Adatas acs. Beigas pārsteidza. Pat bija jāsmejas, kā parasti situācijā, kad pēkšņi kāds tevi apčakarē vai pašam rodas bezizejas situācija.
This is the grand-daddy of humourous sci-fi.You get tranported onto an alien world, strangely reminiscent of 1950s soviet russia/east germany.You' ll witness James Mowry, our reluctant hero, work as a wasp = as a secret agent/propagandist, bringing the bureaucratic dictatorship down.The storyline moves quickly, and the humourous description of situations and characters will keep you smiling as you discover how Mowry keeps escaping the sinister secret police. A true gem of 1950 sci-fi.
1957 sci-fi book that is short (about 170 pages) and very entertaining. Some sci-fi from the "Golden Age" can be a little dated here and there but this book is not dated at all. It feels current especially because of the subject matter of a terrorist, or "wasp," from earth sent to some distant planet in a far future to wage a one man war of terror on a militaristic people. This is a fun book full of suspense, moments of humor and action.
This gem is very clever. Described as a "terrorist's handbook " it makes use of the power of rumour and confusion. It deserves to be much better known.

Last year a read a short story by this author called "Waitabits".
I kept looking for more by him and finally realized it was all published in the mid-fifties.
So, I checked the library and got this one.
I was not disappointed.
I really enjoyed it.
It has a "Lost Boys" feel to the ending.
By which I mean that once you get there, it feels like the whole book was a set up for the punch line.
This isn't to say that the journey wasn't enjoyable.
A human agent dropped alone behind enemy lines to wage a disinformation war.
Fun to read nevertheless.
My impression of "Wasp": Very little science fiction in a science fiction book...OK, I get the idea that the author wanted to emulate WWII in a science fiction setting.
But, aliens and the alien planet behave are almost a perfect copy of human beings.
The alien society, motivations, infrastructure, etc are too human like.
one wonders where is the alienness of the storyA few different names here and there, some purple skin, a bow legged gait do not make a science fiction story.It is a fast and easy read, and was interested in knowing the ultimate fate of Mowry, the main protagonist, but it is a very unsatisfying science-fiction book.
Enjoyed the face-value sci-fi concept introduced in the first part of the book.
The books current human race and variations will have to bio engineer to travel space and colonise.
Which then raises the questions when do human beings stop being human and on what merits would a harmony between variants ever exist.
The story seems to echo any stage of human history in which two communities can't live side by side.
This was my biggest take-away but enjoyed the whole book.
The book is concise and nicely provides two scenarios showcasing material often stretched out in sagas but satisfyingly not here.
But the main character is basically mindless and thoughtless, just follows his orders, and the story is just one long pure action sequence from start to end.
No reflection on the morality of what he is doing, no attachments formed with the locals, he just coldly and ruthlessly exploits them in line with his orders to destabilise them.
On this front, there is a few cynical insights into human nature and group psychology, in the methods he deploys to stir up trouble.
But it was not enough or deep and insightful enough to hold my interest for very long.
I found Wasp to be a quick read, not overly taxing.
This, however, should not imply that the story is thin or lacking.
The text is gifted with the small details and subtle complexities that made for a book that I couldn’t put down.I would read a whole series of these, a trilogy, watch a Netflix original or HBO show of this.
Wasp goes firmly in my paddock of books that I would use to gently introduce someone to the SCI-FI genre.My only criticism would be that it is was written a while ago, so there are occasional technological references that haven’t aged as well as they could have (punch card computers or typewriters for example).
Terry Pratchett said of Wasp that he couldn't imagine a funnier terrorists' handbook. I think that notion is quite on-point with this book. To say nothing of its grittiness, its quick pace, and high level of intensity. It is also very smart (even complex "futuristic" items seem to have reasonable function and design) and well-written to the point that, in the best way, everything makes sense. Lead Terran James Mowry's actions are calculated but often still very human on the distant planet of Jaimec. I could ramble on forever. Read it.
Six word book review: A mosquito keeps the giant awake.
