https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51114.Women_of_the_Silk
Gail Tsukiyama is Chinese/Japanese American and her books take place mostly in China/Hong Kong around the second World War. This book, "Women of the Silk", tells the story of a young girl who lives in a world where daughters are married off and those that aren't go to work in the newly thriving silk factories.
Unfortunately their lives are tragically interrupted by the Japanese invasion of China which for me as a "westerner" was quite interesting to read as I am familar with the American war against Japan but not too familar with all the Japanese invasions in the East and the atrocities commited.
She often fell asleep exhausted by grief." Meh. This novel is incredibly dependent on this type of narration, in which the narrator generalizes Pei's actions and simply tells the reader how to read and respond to each scene.
I'd be much, much more interested in this novel if Tsukiyama could have come up with some other ways of expressing Pei's grief beyond telling me "she often fell asleep exhausted by grief." There are all kinds of other problems--gender relations are horribly romanticized, for example, with Auntie Yee's establishment and the silk sisterhood being figured as oases of femininity and female empowerment.
A fortune teller made the prediction that eight-year-old Pei would never marry, convincing her silent father that the young Chinese girl would only be a drain on the impoverished family's resources.
So while the hours were long at the silk factory, many women chose to remain unmarried and employed there because they had some independence and money.
The Japanese invasion of China caused an upheaval in the lives of Pei and the other silk workers, and forced them to run to safety.The author has a Chinese mother and a Japanese-American father (from Hawaii), and she was raised culturally Chinese.
Obviously everyone knows that China produces the best silk in the world, to which I am quite partial too when possible.
It depicts the hard life especially poor women lived and the culture which gave so few choices to them that being sold to the silk industry, could be one of the best chances life could bring!
We all know about the cruelties and horror of the cultural revolution, but China's people endured so much even before that and they are definitely a race of survivors, especially it's women who seem to have always taken on the major burdens.
This was the story of the young girls who were sold by their families into the life of working in the silk factories.
Some of the girls were taken back by their families later to be sold in to marriage.
Some of the girls chose to stay in the sisterhood, working in the silk factories for the rest of their lives, rather than enter marriage.
I was reading this at the same time that I watched part of a documentary on women in Afghanistan.
I’ve heard that there is a sequel, but I will not be reading it.
Tsukiyama follows a young girl, Pei, through to her years as a young adult, having been left without explanation at the silk factory by her father when she was little.
Tsukiyama's writing style kept me rather emotionally aloof from the events in the book until towards the end when Pei decides to finally return home to see her estranged family whom she hadn't communicated with since she was left at the factory.
She also subtly shows how gender roles damage both women and men, as Pei's father is often described as not having the ability or tools with which to express his feelings for his daughter or wife, because he has never been taught.
Yet, I couldn't help feeling that the characters lacked emotional resonance.
They were somewhat flat, and at times both the feeling and the dialogue came across as forced and contrived.
Tsukiyama made an effort to point out the bond of the "sisterhood" among the silk workers, but I would rather have felt that connection myself.
That said, it was not an altogether unengaging read.
This is Tsukiyama's first novel so I'm inclined to believe that perhaps she was just finding her footing as a writer.
I still plan to read the sequel to this novel, The Language of Threads.
A glossary of Chinese terms like jook, jong, cheong sam, the god Kuan-Yin and such would have been very helpful.The author excels at showing a woman's worth, she clearly illustrates the confining, limited options of being born female along with the hard choices faced by parents.
"How often Yu-sung (Pei's mother) had wished one of them were a boy, something Pao (Pei's father) could be proud of, something of value." "Too much knowledge will only lead to heartaches for a female." Tsukiyama has a graceful hand in expressing and making understandable the feelings and motives of her characters, from Pei's parents, Pei finding herself, to the sister silk workers standing up to their boss.
Quite obviously a first novel- not a great work of literature but entertaining. Everyone seems to go on about how empowering this book is to women, but I found that element of the novel limited in scope, since the only women who are successful completely reject men and those who don't are destroyed by their heterosexual realtionships. I like boys, damnit!
This book really had me inside the world of rural China in the 1920s and 30s. It follows the life of a girl in a tiny village, and her life going to a small town to become a silk worker. I don't want to ruin any of it for you, so that's all I'll say. I found it very intimate and compelling. It was a real page turner. I was surprised to read that this was Gail Tsukiyama's first novel. Excellent work.
After recently hearing Tsukiyama speak in person, I decided to go back and read her novels in order. This is an excellent first novel, about the lives of women in China working in the silk trade. I loved it! Excellent story of women's friendship.
I gave it a 50% (2.5/5) rating because I liked about half of this book.This story tells the tale of a young girl named Pei who lived in a time in China when young women were either married off or sent to work in factories.
So, she was sent away to work in a factory just before WWII began.One of the things I liked so much about this book was the history lesson about girls in China during WWII.
Before 2016 when I began reading Asian literature taking place in China/Japan/Korea during WWII I'd never heard of things like comfort women, the Massacre of Nanking, and the many MANY attacks and raids in China.
I am intrigued by the hair dressing ceremony wherein women could choose to become a member of the sisterhood of silk workers, an alternative to arranged marriages.
Even if the factories allowed women to escape family and marriage, even if it allowed them to send some support home, it is not a good excuse for running a sweatshop, and this factory did become/was always that--hence the strike.
I have read about the labor movement's beginning in the US of A, and I must confess that I am now interested to learn to what extent there was a parallel movement in China, and if indeed it was that much easier than in the US.There seemed an abrupt shift from isolated rural to involvement with the Japanese invasion.
Living and working with other young Chinese girls, Pei's life is chronicled over a period of almost 20 years, beginning in 1919 and ending 1938, when Japanese soldiers are sweeping across China and Pei is forced to leave the city of Yung Kee to seek safety in Hong Kong.Tsukiyama's meticulous research on the historical period and customs of the women silk workers is well integrated in a moving account of this subculture of Chinese girls, and the deep bonds they form with each other.
Separated from their families and from the promise of marriage, we learn that many of these girls chose, as young women, to make a lifelong commitment to the silk factory work.
I just love this woman's writing!
Everything she says is like a poem and the beauty is so evident in the small parts like when she describes the preparation of food or the city sights and smells as the character goes on a walk through town.
Her stories capture emotions and you feel like you have a co-pilot seat in experiencing the character's transformation.
The character development is such that you actually miss these people you're reading about once the book is over.
I would love to read more by this author and highly recommend this book to anyone who enjoys a great hero's journey tale.
Ms. Tsukiyama is a new to me author.Pei is one of the several Chinese daughters born to a poverty stricken fish farm family, dominated the father.
When another girl is born to the family (who dies soon after), Pei's father decides her fate.
Pei finds that she is treated with kindness, and she forms a special bond with another girl named Lin. Pei and the other girls live together, work together, earning money for their families, and they form strong bonds accepting the fact that they will never marry, but instead will retire to spinsterhood at the age of 40.The effects of war with Japan eventually touch the lives of everyone, and there are some tragedies which occur as this book covers a 20 year time span.The author does a wonderful job with this coming of age story.
Very surface-level story, too many cheap tricks and gimmicks, too many questions left unanswered.It could have been a great novel!
But having a novel range over such a wide span of years is dangerous if you can't keep the reader emotionally involved in the characters.
Randomly killing characters is not drama and tragedy - it's lazy, like she didn't know how else to move the story along and make the reader sad.Not recommended, except maybe for a young reader who needs an easy intro to more adult themes, or someone interested in the historical context obviously.
Historical fiction at its best, the last book that touched me in the way Women of The Silk did while reading was A Thousand Splendid Suns.
The women of the silk did not marry by choice, or were deemed as not marriage material by their families so forged an alliance together.All the characters are likeable and come across well, I loved Chen Ling so feisty and strong when gearing the women up to fight for better working conditions.There are sad moments, highs and lows in this book but nothing is predictable.Would I recommend?
Yes to historical fiction lovers.
I loved this book and will read the sequel because Pei has become a part of my family. Women of the Silk is the author's first book. I like books to teach me something new, so I learned how young Chinese girls in the 1920s were given to the silk factories by their families because of poverty. The author is also a poet. She writes an elegant, poignant story that draws in the reader. These girls form a sisterhood, a family, and despite extreme hardships manage to survive. I realize how blessed my life has been.
One of my students recommended this to me as one of her favorites, and I enjoyed it as well. It reminded me a little of one of my summer reads "The Blood of Flowers" which I liked even more than this. Reading about the silk factories of China in the 1920s-30s was very interesting, and I like novels that take me to new places. An easy and entertaining read.
Emotions were not expressed, and the males drove the family unit's lives and very subsistence.
Early in the story when introduced to Pei, I was drawn to how her young life dramatically changed.
Throughout the book she dealt with the odds that challenged her.
She seemed to crave more emotional acknowledgement from those she knew, but did manage to experience such in her friend Lin especially.
While some may negatively critique this book, I prefer to comment on what was presented, and how it affected me.
I got a strong sense of Pei's turmoil, and how she managed to keep sight of her dreams.

I really like Chinese and Japanese writers - they have a very smooth way of writing and their stories are always of very kind and very strong characters. I always imagine im sitting in a garden, filled with cherry blossoms, while reading. The book was quite interesting, fast-paced (mostly), but the ending was something I didn't enjoy. It felt like she ended it this way just so she could make it extremely dramatic for one last time and it was a bit too much. Other than that, probably a good choice for a book club. :)
In the beginning, the book has almost a Dickensian tone when Pei is sent to work in a silk factory at age 6 to help support the family farm in the poor village she was raised in. Pei, however, eventually thrives, relishing the support and friendship of the other silk workers. The low status of girl children and females in general in early 20th century China is repellent, so it is spirit lifting to read the story of a band of girls who are forced by circumstances to become friends and who find their own voices in troubled times.
This one was a reread for me but one I enjoyed. I love this author’s work and the pacing and detail here about life in this period of China for the silkworkers detailed here was engaging. Looking forward to rereading the second book in this series.
3-4 stars.
3½-4 stars.
Wat een topper weer. Tsukiyama is zo goed!In "de zijdewerksters" volgen we Mei, als ze als jong meisje door haar vader wordt weggestuurd om als zijdewerkster geld te gaan verdienen voor haar familie. Het wordt een vrij feministisch verhaal, tegen de achtergrond van een vooroorlogs China, met veel aandacht voor liefde en vriendschap. Prachtig geschreven ook alweer.
A simple tale set in China just before WW2. The book follows the life of Pei, a country girl who is sent to work in a silk factory to help support her family. The tale is simple but haunting too... and quite emotional towards the end. I learned a lot about the culture and traditions of the time and it gave me a lot of food for thought.
Women of the Silk is a perfectly enjoyable little book, although it suffers from some flaws which may simply be the result of its being Tsukiyama’s first novel.The book follows its protagonist, Pei, from 1919 until 1938.
Pei is a likeable protagonist, the women around her are interesting, and I like the unconventionality of the story: the women’s finding happiness in work and sisterhood and Pei’s not having (or wanting) a male love interest.Still, though, it’s not a great book.
At any rate, having a random sex scene that was never referred to again--especially since this relationship was the most prominent in the book--seems like the worst of both worlds.
The war was the result of a decades-long Japanese imperialist policy aiming to dominate China politically and militarily and to secure its vast raw material reserves and other economic resources, particularly food and labour and was a very bloody war.This novel is set in China in a small village where Pei is being raised with her very silent father, mother and older sister in a crude dwelling and how Pei is essentially given away into the life of the Silk World which means she is sent away to work in the silk factories and to live in a girls house (where she is treated kindly) and this story is about the friendships that she builds and the new life she makes for herself.
