https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/242776.The_Captains
Another winner from a master.
Today on the news I heard a story of a captain who was just awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor.
The captain has retired and has been unemployed since he left the army.
This novel (and this series) give a good look at life in the army.By now if you've followed the series this far (second book) I assume you've gotten interested in "the story" and the people involved.
It's interesting on more than one level, both the history and the fictional story placed within.The Korean War flares here and of course touches the lives of all involved with out story.
Continuing Griffin's epic series of the Brotherhood of War. It follows the characters that were created in the first book "The Lieutenants". This time they find themselves being activated for Korea. It has some great subplots but seems to fall short of the original, but still worth the read. And no spoilers here, but there were surprises that I didn't expect happening to these soldiers.
The Captains (Brotherhood of War #2) by W.E.B. Griffin (Jove 1982) (Fiction - Military). The soldiers who fought the Nazis find themselves recalled to military service to sort out the conflict on the Korean Peninsula. My rating: 7/10, finished 1983.
He probably should have been kicked out of the army years ago (although he’s very young to be a Captain – about 24 I think), but he just seems to be too good at his job.
Since it’s a book about the military, you’re probably thinking ‘The Korean War’ right?
If you knew nothing about the Korean War before you read this book, you still wouldn’t know much about it when you finished reading.
Again, Griffin is telling a story about people, and not so much events.I really enjoyed this book, and picked it up immediately after I finished ‘The Lieutenants’.
Reading it again I've forgotten how good of a storyteller Griffin was before writing with his son in his last few books.
While this one sets the stage for each of his other series (i.e., Corps, Vigilantes, Philadelphia police series) with a rich guy who always bucks the system to beat up the bad guy, with this one you have good character developmet and dialogue, and get a history of the Army from WWII through Vietnam - Korea, tank development, army aviation, Green Berets, you name it.I always liked rooting for Lowell, and each of us has a very tight stickler to the rules Bellmon in our lives - Griffin portrays his characters similar to people ni each of our lives.Reading each book in this series is well worth it - wish I could say the same about his latest books with Butterworth the IV!
Continuing the story of five Army men, this book charts their course during and after the United States action in Korea. The story involves how men who identify themselves as career soldiers navigate the uncertain courses their careers take when decisions made bear unexpected fruit. The book builds on the clarity and verve evident in its predecessor, and since many of the characters are still standing in the active ranks at its close, it ensures that the saga will demand a further accounting in the sequel.
Your never not a soldierAs a veteran of both the United States Air Force and Army this series harkens back to my military days when a fellow soldier will always be your brother and the bonds of friendship will always remain unbroken.
Excellent! A nice companion book to read with “This Kind of War.”
The only good thing about this book was learning a little history about a time I was unfamiliar with.
Great!W. E. B. Griffin is always a 5-star rating. Characters are always well-developed,and very individualistic. He presents the army,with all it's flaws, in a very real way.
Made the mistake of not realizing that this is the second book of the series "Brotherhood of War". So a lot of characters from the first that were probably evolved in the first book appeared poorly delineated here. Having said that, the backdrop of Korean war was exciting but the plots not so.Never got bored while reading the book but never got the feeling of reading a great book.
This is the second volume of the Brotherhood of War. On the 25th of June 1950, communist forces swarmed south over the 38th parallel effectively starting the Korean War. United States forces were stationed there as instructors and advisors and were taken by surprise by the speed and atrociousness of the assaults and were hard pressed to produce a response.
Officers and men were again called upon to stem the tide of tyranny as the United States emerges from its pre-WWII isolationist position to that of world power.
I know its a careful balance, and I guess some people love the knowledge WEB obviously has in regards to military affairs.
But for me it took away from the enjoyment of the characters and their overall journeys.The ugly...The love story between Lowell and Ilse was honestly one of my favorite things about the first book.
Mother is crazy, feels like his family abandoned him.
He loves Ilse and PP, the first family he has ever had.
Summary:Worth reading if you like military books and well written characters, but book two had several flaws that take away from the overall enjoyment of the book.
The book is set during the Korean War. Like in his first novel the author is concentrating more on the personal and professional lives of the characters more than on the actual military battles, but he brings some good balance between them, which makes the book fun to read.
Overall this book is fun to read , the characters are more and more interesting and the story line is developing nicely ( I acutely read the last book in this series , so I have a good perspective and I know what the author is trying to create).
I have read it now at least three times, and I enjoy it more with each pass.It is pure fantasy, a romantic, idealized portrait of military life.
Anyone who says that W.E.B. Griffin is writing about the real army is a bit mistaken.
His books are grounded in that culture, but come out larger than life.In the Captains, our heroes are coming into their own and defining themselves.
The youth, energy and excitement drips off the pages.It was particularly enjoyable to read about some of the places that I traveled to in my army life.
Korean War and Birth of Army Aviation.
Craig Lowell, in Paris to resettle his POW father-in-law is jerked onto active duty and lands as a tank company commander in Pusan, the last toehold of the US after the invasion brunt.
Phil Parker lands in a GCM after killing a cowardly subordinate, only to be aided by Lowell as he recovers from a 4 day fucking at the hands of a movie star on a USO tour.
Lowell and Parker end up at Ft Sill to launch Army aviation into the next century as Phil bites the bullet and marries Toni.
WEB Griffin's Brotherhood of War book 2: The Captains is a good read.
The idea behind the book is to tell the story of a few US Army soldiers who fought in various ways during the Korean War as well as the stories of their families at home and abroad.
In general the book is well written and the story well developed.
The depictions of Army command structure, and operation are way more in depth than most authors go but it adds credence to the story.
I personally cannot wait to read book 3.
All in all, I would recommend reading The Captains.
Let's face facts: W.E.B. Griffin writes what some will call "Recipe Books''. Yes, the Characters are often similar from series to series and if you have ever watched M*A*S*H: you can see so many familiar types of characters in these books. (Yes he wrote some M*A*S*H books.)However he gives you an over view of the Military through War and Peace, not necessarily from the Foxhole, but from the lives of men of women who served in whatever capacity they served.W.E.B. Griffin's ability to weave conversations with copies of letters, teletypes and telegrams make these books very fast and entertaining reads.
This series definitely concentrates on different aspects of the war and peace time story delving more into the non-battle scenes and more of what makes an officer & a gentleman.
I enjoy books that take a group of fictional characters and plop them down somewhere in history and this series does not disappoint.
While it is still not my favorite Griffin series, it is still much better than the most reads out there, hence the 5 stars.
On a a purely Griffin scale I would give it 3.5-4 stars.The Brotherhood of War series superbly captures the times, people, and military of from the tail end of WWII through the Vietnam War.
I first fell in love with Griffin's series beginning with the Corps Series. Then along came Brotherhood of War. Like The Corps, his characters are engaging and richly colorful. But, the Brotherhood of War, while still very dynamic, seems to focus a little less on the world of war and fighting and more on the culture of the US Army, especially the officer's corps. Reading this series, I was intrigued by the almost country-club like atmosphere Griffin sees in play among the US Army officers and the history behind the Army's culture.
It's sort of incredible that the guy got two of these out in one year, but then again, I had a hard time closing the door on Craig Lowell myself. Everybody calls one dude "the little Jew" to themselves, immediately, even when they aren't being portrayed as bigoted. Is that what you do? All the blacks are "very big, very black." This was the one where I started to feel like the guy who wrote these churned them out in one sitting.
This book was another entertaining story about guys in the military. I didn't like this book as much as Lieutenants, but it still captured the humor in military service pretty accurately. Lowell is still my favorite officer, by far, and I always look forward to reading the next chapter if it begins with something Lowell does. What's really great is telling Joe about a part of the book, and having him recall a story of his own that relates. I've learned a lot!
I started with this one first not realizing it was a series. I very much enjoyed this book and the entire series. Following each of the characters through their military from start to finish was great. Mr. Griffin has really written a series that kept me wanting for more. As a retired military person, I could relate to much of what was written. I recommend this series to anyone who likes a good series of books to read.
Griffin's prejudices soil some of this book. And it lacks the discipline of some of his other work in that there is no real theme from start to finish. But it is still entertaining.Switching to some Forsyth I have acquired after this book took me from rather workmanlike writing to truly good writing. A revealing contrast.
The entire Brotherhood of War series is excellent. Once I read The Lieutenants I couldn't stop until I reached the end of the series. The 9 book series follows a group of characters through their careers in the military from WWII to the Vietnam era.
Awesome sequel to Griffin's "The Lieutenants". Great story with likable characters set in a world we've all read about in our history books! The book will stand alone, but I heartilly recommend starting at the beginning of the series with "The Lieutenants".
great continuation of the brotherhood of war series. i didn't realize this until later but the story is about soldiers...but there really is no battle/combat. It's more about the men themselves. I look forward to the majors.
Got started on the series, read straight through it. It does give a particular point of view through the history of conflicts, with readable characters. He does not really do a good job with female characters, to my own way of thinking, but the story of the series is compelling.
W.E.B Griffin was one of the required reading as a young marine. I have since continued reading his fabulous drama filled military fiction that kept me company for many years. His well developed recurring characters become friends and even to the point of family.
