https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33128934-stillhouse-lake
In the morning, there's another girl floating dead in the lake. Easily one of the better mystery/thrillers I've read this year. After disappointments from old favourites with Since We Fell and newly-hyped thrillers like Final Girls, I managed to find a really creepy, suspenseful story from an author who has always been a bit hit and miss for me.The book starts with a very dramatic and gruesomely exciting opening chapter. I've grown to appreciate slow build novels, but thrillers that pull out a
After disappointments from old favourites with Since We Fell and newly-hyped thrillers like Final Girls, I managed to find a really creepy, suspenseful story from an author who has always been a bit hit and miss for me.The book starts with a very dramatic and gruesomely exciting opening chapter.
Now she is Gwen Proctor, on the run, doing anything she can to protect her two children from the online trolls who promise a sick revenge.
It's a no-brainer.So it reminds us of all this - of the threat posed by the Internet, of the lengths sick people will go to - but it also reminds us of something else: that nothing in this world can compete with a mother protecting her babies.
Gina never asked about the garage. That thought would keep her awake every night for years after, pulsing hot against her eyelids. I should have asked. Should have known. But she'd never asked, she didn't know, and in the end, that was what destroyed her. There were some things that I didn't totally like in the book, but for the most part it was really good! **Mild Spoilers**It's been a few years now and Gina is now Gwen and she is living in Stillhouse Lake, TN <-- I live in TN =) Gwen is li
Gwen has a mysterious hacker that she pays to keep out the evil people and he lets her know when they are on her trail so she can move again.
I find it really odd that Gwen never asked to go into the remade garage.
Gwen goes to jail for a bit and her mom watches the kids and tries to keep them hidden.
I mean these people are saying some horrific things they want to do to Gwen and the kids.
Gwen does get the kids back with the help of a friend and a cop.
and I’m really glad I did.Normally, Gina Royal is home at three in the afternoon, but her husband, Mel, has called and asked her to pick up the children as he has a work emergency.
She forces herself to read just how much people hate her and the vile things they say.
They have an alarm set at all times, and Gwen is armed to the teeth!Melvin is in jail but why does Gwen feel like things aren’t done?And then the police come knocking…“Something very bad has just begun”Well, this was quite a read!

This is probably one of the best psychological thrillers I have read in a while. It had me questioning myself at every twist and turn. I was literally on the edge of my seat during the last three-quarters of the book. I could even feel the paranoia of the main character. Totally messed with my mind!!
She takes care of house and home like a juggernaut – doing what society, and her husband has told her is her most important job, to the detriment of her own well-being.
Then, a body turns up right outside their back door – the signature the same as her now incarcerated husband and Gwen’s carefully constructed secrecy comes crashing down.This read had me utterly gripped from start to finish.
She develops this story and it’s character with a level of detail that left me in awe.
While Caine did a phenomenal job developing the base of the story and it’s characters the ending felt a bit haphazard to me.
Stillhouse Lake is a great book. I mean, stay-up-until-2:00-a.m.-to-finish-it great. I read the whole thing in just a few hours, and my heart was pounding pretty fast for a while afterward!"I'm glad I've escaped a hell I had hardly even recognized when I was burning in it. Glad that I've pulled the kids out, too."Gina Royal had your typical, everyday life. Her marriage to her husband Mel had its ups and downs, but for the most part, they were happy, and she felt comfortable raising their two ch
How could she have missed the signs, spent all of this time thinking her life with her husband was normal?When Mel went on trial for the murders, Gina found herself in the public eye as well, and on trial.
It didn't matter how many times she swore her innocence and her ignorance of Mel's crimes, there were many in the press, in the neighborhood, across the world, and even within her own family, who believed she had a hand in the murders.
In a remote town called Stillhouse Lake, they finally feel comfortable after so many years of fleeing when people started asking too many questions or Mel's minions found them.
On the day that Gina Royal comes home to find that a car has smashed into the garage, her life literally comes crashing down before her.
Turns out her husband Melvin Royal, has been using the garage as a private workshop, to mutilate and murder women.
She is now Gwen Proctor and her children are now known as Lanny and Connor, living in “Stillhouse Lake”, where they keep to themselves.
Every day Gina Royal gets death threats via the internet and has people trying to find her.
Slowly things begin to unravel for Gwen, Lanny and Connor as life takes a terrifying turn yet again.
Because of her husbands' crimes, and after being acquitted of having any involvement in his little hobby; she's had to move from place to place, change her name a few times, as not everyone believes she's innocent (how could she not know?) so she gets trolled, receives death threats and is in constant fear for her own and her children's lives.
She's proficient with firearms, too.Unfortunately, it's not long before a body is found floating on the lake, which has similarities to her husbands handiwork; making her the prime suspect.In summation: I liked the main character, Gwen (Gina), she has a strong personality.
3.5 starsImagine coming home with your kids one day and finding your garage smashed in by a drunk driver. Then even worse, finding out that your husband has been using that garage as a little chop 'em up shop.Complete with dead body. That's what happens to Gina Royal. The bad thing is? She lived with this dude and had two children by him and never knew that he was one of the most prolific serial killers around.  Gina is also arrested and tried as his accomplice, because just how could she not kn
3.5 starsImagine coming home with your kids one day and finding your garage smashed in by a drunk driver.
Now she has taken her two children and changed their identity's and ran.Because their lives are threatened daily by internet trolls...both the kind that glorify what her crazy ass husband did and the ones who think that she should be punished.She ends up as Gwen Proctor in small town Tennessee.
Killed just like dear old hubby liked to do it.Okay, so I'm going to admit that when I first started reading this book I didn't like Gwen or the kids.
A breakneck pace and lots of serial killer chills!I'm not a huge fan of serial killer reads, but with so many great reviews I purchased this one and read it straight through leaving all my other reads languishing until I finished!Gina Royal is a shy housewife with two children she dotes on.
I really liked how the book is told from Gina's point of view instead of some serial killer.
Husband Mel is in prison, but he hasn't forgotten them...This is book one in the fast paced, page turning series.
Highly recommend for serial killer/ intense thriller fans!
A story told from the perspective of a serial killer’s wife.
Told after he is discovered, she and her family have had to go into hiding, changing their identities.
There’s a great level of suspense and tension throughout the book.
She’s got just the right level of paranoia.
But she’s also smart and has seen the damage that constant running has done to her kids.
But I’ve learned that a book can still be a great read whether you have the villain figured out or not.
I was happy to see there’s going to be a second book and will definitely read it.

Psychological thriller.Started with accident, drunk driver destroyed the garage of serial killer Melvin Royal.
Did gruesome killings there.
Fooled his wife and kids for years, now they are on the run from people that didn't believe the fact they didn't know what he was doing in that garage.
Changing names, schools.
Wife Gina always prepared to move if they are discovered.
This unstable emotional state taking a toll on all of them.
Parts gets little boring, but keep reading.
Has a very surprising ending, have to read the second book to find out how they are going to face the new challenge.3.5 stars.
A car accident has revealed that her husband’s hobby in the garage—one she never inquired about—was gruesome—he’s a serial killer.The public thinks she was his helper.
Gina transforms herself into Gwen and for the next four years she and her kids are in hiding with new identities, never knowing who they can trust.
When more bodies start showing up, the police think this is proof that Gina/Gwen was in fact in on her husband’s grotesque and unimaginably cruel activities.
4 Stars for Stillhouse Lake  Gina never asked about the garage.
I should have asked.
But she's never asked, she didn't know, and in the end, that was what destroyed her.
And so the story begins.....I was in the mood for an engrossing thriller and this turned out to be exactly that, making it one of the best thrillers I've read this year!
Though she starts off weak Gina/Gwen quickly becomes a likable character.
Yes, the story ends in a cliffhanger but for once it felt necessary.
Gwen vs.
Mel deserves to be a story all its own.
Once she was Gina Royal, loyal and loving wife and mother but endlessly naive.
and a lot of families left broken when Melvin Royal took loved ones from them.
A body is found in the lake of a young woman.
Have the random people online hell-bent on revenge found them?A body found so close brings the police to their door, and Gwen knows it won't be long before they figure out who she really is...
I finally finished this book.
It's been on my currently reading shelf for a month, and I think I read four other books in the time it took me to read this short thriller, but it's finally done.
Okay, thoughts-- if it wasn't for the final forty pages I think I would've given this book 2 stars.
As I said the final 40-50 pages made this book for me.
A fast-paced and intense psychological thriller. Pulls you right in and doesn't let go. Who can be trusted? Is there anywhere that is safe? I loved how strong and fierce Gwen was. She can definitely hold her own. Others are often destroyed by all that she has gone through. Had me thinking about what life is like for those left behind after a crime -- both the perpetrator's and the victim's families. The ending sets you up perfectly for book two in the series. Can't wait to read it!
Five extremely intense stars!!!Cannot even imagine being married to a serial killer....
How could you ever feel safe?The author did an absolutely amazing job of putting you in Gina/Gwen‘s head for the duration of this book....
Love how relentless Gina/Gwen was in protecting her children (can’t even imagine being put in this situation)...
I spent the entire book trusting and distrusting right along with Gina/Gwen, and I was very surprised as to who the bad person ended up being....
Can’t wait for the next book in this series....Definitely one of the more intense books I’ve read this year!
Bitch is just laying low, getting away with murder – you know, living her best life.So, excuse me if I find it a little bit too far fetched that Gwen Proctor (aka Gina Royal) has been on the run for years and the internet’s fury had been consistently unrelenting in the most vicious possible way.
This was such an entertaining exploration into the idea of "not knowing who you married." Warning though - VERY gory and unsettling. We know that doesn't bother me, but I wanted to give you all a heads up. Video review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Hd2L...
Gina Royal was a quiet stay at home mother of two beautiful children who came home one day to find out her husband of nine years was a serial killer.
Years later, she is living miles away in a house on the edge of Stillhouse Lake, she and her children having taken on new identities.
Thank you to my lovely GR friend Susanne, whose raving review prompted me to pick this suspenseful book up!
This was Book #1 in the Stillhouse Lake series.
This was a Traveling Friends read that we all really enjoyed.Stillhouse Lake is available now!
What's in your garage?
Vehicles, auxiliary fridge, access to the furnace?
Seems normal enough, at least that's what is in my garage.
But let's say your garage has been converted into a workshop with access limited to an outside door.
And what if that outside entrance is kept locked?
Just what could your spouse be tinkering around with in there?
Hmmm?Stillhouse Lake in Tennessee.
Sounds tranquil enough, but Gwen Proctor's carefully manufactured life is about to implode.
She, along with her two kids, have worked hard to blend in and return to some semblance of normalcy.
Believable dialogue, nicely developed characters, and a plot that kept my interest throughout.
Now years later Gina has remade herself into Gwen Proctor, another in a long list of aliases as she and her children have done their best to stay in hiding after the publicity and trial had died down.
Tired of always being on the run Gwen has vowed that this time will be different and she and her children will finally have the home that they have longed for all these years since that fateful night.
The one thing this book makes clear in all the twists and turns and excitement of the story is how in today's age the theory of innocent until proven guilty has been forgotten.
A freak accident exposed her now ex-husband Mel Royal as a brutal serial killer and the court of public opinion viewed Gwen as an accomplice.
The first half of the story lays the foundation for what’s now Gwen’s life, as well as the character development.
The few people she’s let in her life all become suspects and there are plenty of clues to assemble to figure it out, some more obvious than others but all pretty subtle and nuanced.
This is obviously a series with a continuing story arc.
I loved this book and am anxious to continue the series.
But a good ending can definitely sell me the next book.However, a blatant cliffhanger attempt to sell me the next book is what we have here, and it left me really not wanting to ever read anything by this author again.But this is something I've seen before, and I just realized I'd seen it with this same publisher.
Whatever happened to that good old paperback habit of putting the first chapter of the next book at the end?
Exceptional, nonstop suspense from an experienced author (Rachel Caine is a pseudonym). There are so many ways this plot could have been made trite or shallow, and none of them show up. When readers start the story, one disbelieves the protagonist's naivete. Yet for the rest of the book, the protagonist describes her boomerang reactions especially to protect her children, and the horrific online fallout. Along with the reader, she self-examines again and again the question of her guilt exactly over how she could have been so naïve. Very thoughtful and emotionally-engaging.The Tennessee setting is a welcome bonus.Highly recommended.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ 3.5 StarsGina thought she had the perfect life. Happily (enough) married to Mel, mother of two, she was a real Suzy Homemaker. That is, until a drunk driver crashed into their garage and uncovered her husband’s little secret . . . .  (Mitchell still can’t figure out why Gina would be upset about discovering she was married to the perfect man.)Anywho, fast forward a year where we meet the new and improved Gina . . . .  Now known as Gwe
Things seem to be settling down on the psycho front and Gwen has finally started to plant some roots in a quiet little locale known as Stillhouse Lake, Tennessee.
If you haven’t figured it out yet, Stillhouse Lake is without a doubt 100% a Lifetime Mystery Movie of the week.
Wowzers!If you’re okay with suspending disbelief and simply want a decent read that will keep your interest and you will speed through, Stillhouse Lake might be a winner.
Other than that, though, this was pretty fun.Book #2 in the Winter Reading Challenge.
"Everyone runs from the monster. Everyone except the monster slayer..."   Yes!!! Our heroine is facing the unexpected consequences of her ex-husband's actions and they aren't pretty. In fact, they put her and her children at significant risk which means she is always in a proactive defense mode. Like she can't even breathe. She always has to stay one step ahead of any possible threat and her exhaustion is palpable. But her passion for her responsibility as a parent is even more tangible. I abs
Stillhouse Lake was a super fast-paced thriller with a strong villain that is oh so easy to hate, characters who aren't who they say they are, a bad-ass mother justified in her paranoia, a deadly mystery that puts this family in a spotlight they do not need...
Beware, this story continues in the form of a series so while I feel there is enough closure for the main mystery of this particular book, there is a cliffhanger that perfectly sets up the next.
It’s the punctuation at the end, not the paragraph."Note: Rachel Caine's Stillhouse Lake series includes the following installments as of December 2017.
