https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/405100.The_Sonnets
FUCK YOU TED I WILL DO IT TO YOU WITH GREEN NOODLES. I LOVE YOU WHY CAN'T WE PEPSI TOGETHER. Don't just read this. Listen to this on Penn Sound while you eat red noodles.
In the introduction, Motley stresses the important influence of Shakespeare's Sonnets; the profundity of Berrigan's transformation from being the poet of the commonplace A Lily For My Love to the poet of the experimental and unconventional Sonnets; an overview of the cast of allusive characters that includes friends, cultural figures, and literary influences; and perhaps most significantly the influence of the New York School poets , of whom at least three are referenced and two are quoted directly...In my skin, writing The Dwarf of Ticonderoga.
For "time" in particular, Berrigan took the last line of some of these stanzas, used it as the first, then took the second to last, moved it to the top, and so on.
When I read this I had just put down one of the news weeklies we get in the mail.
I'd also just read the news of the day online.
And if I could just mess with linear time a little bit, that'd feel lovely.
/ I wonder if Jan or Helen or Babe / ever think about me.” Over the course of five lines Berrigan self-aggrandizes, self-deprecates, drops influences, dismisses the whole reading enterprise, and contemplates his crushes, somehow perfectly encapsulating how a bard spends an average afternoon.Fittingly, the book opens in fragment: “His piercing pince-nez,” glasses that stand as mark of a bygone stuffy intellectualism which Berrigan smashes.
Reading the poems in succession, the repeated fragments are welcome returns, building a world of Berrigan subconscious, at once disjunctive and personal, a place where the sky shifting to twilight and one’s own poems are described with the same adjectives: “feminine marvelous and rough.”
The Sonnets are one of the best examples of what I call "phantom limb" poetry; you read it, and feel the trace of some emotion so viscerally that you are convinced it must be real, but upon thought and concentration and meditation realize is nothing at all. But unlike other poets of this genre –the Ashberys, and Palmers, the Scalapinos– I find Berrigan's opus endlessly human and fascinating, a free verse koan that I can ponder forever, and from which I draw the most sincere inspiration.
One of the best examples I know of poetry that is simultaneously a spontaneous mind map of the moment and rigorously formal.And they're funnyAnd they make you want to write
How come nobody has made me read this before? How come nobody has made me read Ted Berrigan?You fuckers! You are all absolute fuckers!
The Sonnets are all cut-up poems -- Berrigan uses what he cryptically refers to as "The Process" to rearrange the lines according to a mathematical, syntactically random, pattern.
A few of the sonnets are reproduced with the original line sequence, so you can see that they at least at one time made sense.
When certain lines are repeated, or echo those from previous poems, the result is a the startling effect of "everything happening at once" that Berrigan seemed to be seeking.
Yet in the end, the book reads more like an experiment than a book, and while I can appreciate it, I can't really say that I enjoyed it.
I had wanted to read this book for ages, and becoming such a huge Alice Notley fan in recent history just upped the ante.
If I were to read more about it or engage with scholarly perspectives on it, I think I'd get much more out of it.
Unfortunately, I'm not excited enough by this book yet to do so and will most likely just move on to a different text.
That has some exciting possibilities.
I didn't feel as though he did anything with the text when it would appear for the second time,a nd I wanted to see more interactivity.
I like to think that when he says "DEAR CHRIS" he meant me.
When it hits, it really hits. When it doesn't, it still isn't bad. As far as the unavoidable coupling question goes: I still prefer Alice Notley, but I understand her affection for Ted.
I'm a fan of the Sonnets, of the idea of the Sonnets, and I have no qualms with the method, and I like Alfred North Whitehead too, and its poetic blasphemy to say this, but...they're kind of boring here and there.
I feel like the passage of time and the 'advance' of post-avant poetry has diminished their radicalism to a degree.
That being said, they are fun, and you come across lines that blow you away, like say: "Max Jacob,/When I lie down to love you, I am one hundred times more/A ghost!", which is pretty brilliant.
I do like these Sonnets, I'm just not as bowled over as I was when I was 22.
Really weird, but oddly enjoyable. It made me think.
experimental contemporary sonnets that got me more stoked abt poetry than i'd been in while. ted's a hidden gem of the new york school.
The first time through this slim book of sonnets, I had little idea what was going on.
They were big things, good things, over my head type things, but I liked it all none the less--in a way, I might enjoy looking at graphitti on a brick wall, something I don't understand but can appreciate and get lost in.
Went back and read the intro to the collection.
Perhaps this is a book to revisit every year or so, like a stretch of woods that was once easy to get lost in, but gets revealed over time, and before long, becomes startlingly revealed.
He scraps lines and re-uses them, as if the whole thing is an attempt to get a completed 5 poems out of hundreds.
I found that I really enjoyed the handful of poems that were "completed," the final time he used certain phrases, etc.
The other poems were just working pieces that I found kind of contrived and unnecessary.Almost like seeing hundreds of negatives versus the 5 final framed images.
I like work in progress, but if it's bound and published I'm not as interested in how you got there, I think the two should be separated.
Death Love Beauty inspiration .
love hate.
All things poetry should be.XVIInto the closed air of the slowWarmth comes, a slow going down of the Morning LandShe is warm.
Into the vast closed air of the slowGoing down of the Morning LandOne vast under pinning trembles doom iceSpreads beneath the mud troubled iceSmother of a swordInto her quick weak heat.
One vast ice ladenVast seas of doom and mud spread across the lake.
Quick heat,Of her vast ice laden self under introspective heat.White lake trembles down to green goingsOn, shades of a Chinese wall, itself "a signal."It is a Chinese signal.
This is a good book and an important--but THIS EDITION keeps us from seeing this as a masterpiece.
Berrigan is breaking ground here--doing things with repetition and fragmentation in ways far more engaging than FOH's "Biotherm." The play between structure and digression is wonderful.
Often, the most delightful/nonsequiter line in a sonnet is the one that ends up repeated in a later poem--what seems to break the pattern becomes part of it.
And it's funny & it's sad & all that good stuff too.
On the down side, some poems are terrible--many of the ones added to the Penguin edition but left out of previous editions.
Anyone studying the sonnet form, as I have been this fall, should read this book. Berrigan is both deeply respectful of the sonnet traditon and a radical innovator, bringing modernistic compositional techniques and a postmodern sensibility to the collection. These poems definitely feel of their cultural time, late 50s/early 60s, and yet have a palpalbe, sometimes accidental, sonorous quality. Before you read them I suggest that you do a little research into how he composed them. That will shed a great deal of light as you read. Otherwise you may be simply confused.
Some funny stuff, some sad stuff. He works in a repetitive style where the same phrases keep showing up and he is a vocabulary genius. Best to read in short segments, at night. You can imagine it is 1971 and you live in a house made out of wicker. To really enjoy it, try to get the copy with a red cover and black circle-grid. The picture on the back is good to see, he wore an Everett Koop style beard with a turtleneck and glasses.
This book plays with repetition and deconstruction with many instances of the same lines being rearranged or placed in diﬀerent contexts throughout the poems. I liked the concept, even if the poems I liked the most were the outliers that seemed to resist the collage treatment. Read more on the booklog for two of those outlier favorites
I've forgotten that I read this last year, until I stumbled upon it in my iTunes. It's better coming back to it. What at first struck me as crafty now seems more natural in the approach of the sonnets. Hear Me Reading The Sonnets (Badly) The Sonnets
Yay. Derek and I listened to these, amongst other poems, in his car on our way to Vegas last year. To this day, I cannot think of that trip without thinking of the line we both seemed to feel more or less summed up that little trip and each of our lives in general at that particular cosmic juncture: "I took a pill. I feel ill/ but optimistic."
Really between a 3 and a half and a four. Some of the pomes are beautifully written and some of the repitions work better in certain poems than in others. however over all by the time you reach the end you feel as if this whole time someone has let you into the private sectors of their life,the oridinary and the lovely and how combined they create something sort of wonderful.
This book, and some articles relating to it, have really changed the way I write and interpret poetry. Absolutely stunning and beautiful. Also, Notley's introduction and footnotes are extremely helpful
Confounded me somewhat. A second read will heighten my enjoyment, i think. I did like it though. I think hearing him read these on Penn Sound adds a tremendous amount to savoring it, though. My favorites were ones where he used the I, and i could still connect with the narrator on a human level.
This poet is poignant in short jerks. Normally, a poem is an idea wrapped up in a beautiful, clever, or eloquent way. These poems are several unrelated ideas thrown together in a literary orgy of modern proportions.I mostly enjoy Berrigan in bits.
Simply the best book of poetry I've ever read. Beautiful, clever, innovative, transformative. It's not easy to get into but once you've cracked it, you'll be blown away.
A fun, really interesting sequences that changes every time you read it. Fun to read it in many different directions, from different starting points.
This is a highly regarded poetry book from the 60s - but its not doing it for me.
