https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/809995.Prodigal_Genius
Tesla was a brilliant inventor and visionary in electricity and telecommunications (though hardly receives credit outside the scientific world), all stemming from the discovery of one "truth of overwhelming importance for the advancement of humanity." "That this planet, with all its appalling immensity, is to electric current virtually no more than a more than a small metal ball...
However, my attitude changed in the last chapter when Tesla says "Mr. O'Neill, you understand me better than anyone in the world." I suppose he can speculate.I share a deep-seeded belief with Tesla, that a person has a sort of human or divine duty to do in some capacity what he or she is good at.
They don't write biographies like this any more.
I really liked the bit where at a young age, Tesla made a 16 Junebug powered motor, and the son of an Army commander comes over and eats all of Tesla's spare bugs.
This whole book is just that weird.-0-Finished it.
The AC current that comes from every wall socket in the world comes from generators that are still based on his designs.
He changed the world as much as Edison, but died in obscurity.
In a time when the world marveled over transatlantic telegraphs, Tesla knew how to build a global radio transmitters that could send video across the planet.It sounded crazy to his contemporaries, and yet what he did achieve, and what we now know today, make it seem likely that he could have delivered on those plans.
One electrical plant per square mile was difficult, and expensive, to manage, but that is where the world was headed, until Tesla broke all existing electrical theories and developed a way to deliver alternating current thousands of miles from the power plant, with virtually no loss in strength.His alternating current model was adopted globally, and spurred on the development of the modern age.
If the author is accurate in his portrayal of Tesla's discoveries then Tesla is certainly worthy of the cultic endearment that's developed in modern times.
Late in the book, the author unfortunately injects much of his own philosophies in attempting to understand and even excuse some of Tesla's behaviors, when I felt he should have simply stuck to the facts.
I would absolutely point other readers interested in Tesla to this book, with a warning, to perhaps read between the lines of friendly affection for which the author held for Tesla.
The author of this book, James O'Neill, was clearly infatuated with Tesla. I've read a couple of other biographies of Tesla, so a lot of it was repeated, but I feel that this version does hold more depth. Two new facts I didn't know: Tesla had a phobia of pearls and a deep love for pigeons.If you're going to read a biography of Nikola Tesla, read this one.
This detailed account of the life of Nikola Tesla, the genius behind alternating current and a host of other inventions, would be of great interest to the science-minded reader.
While the nuances of the experiments conducted by Tesla are part-and-parcel of this account, the real value of this book is in the description of the social, political and economic environment of the time.
Now that the site of Tesla's lab on Long Island has been acquired by a group interested in preserving his legacy, this book is especially appropriate.
This book reads like a verbal masturbation of Dr. Tesla's career.
The first half of the book (especially the War of the Currents chapters) was a terrific read, the latter half became quite a chore as the author started getting into the more technical details of Tesla's projects.
What was most frustrating, is the almost apologetic nature of the author's tone towards Tesla's shortcomings.
This combined with O'Neill's tendency to defer to "TESLA DID IT WITH ALL THE HAND-WAVY MAGIC THINGS FIRST" as an explanation for modern technology really caused the book to suffer.
A bit of a slog to get through but Tesla's life is worth reading about. The day I finished reading it I was in Manhattan for business and quite accidentally found myself at the corner 40th Street and 6th Avenue, officially known as “Nikola Tesla Corner”. It works that way with Tesla...
People who don't like biographies usually don't like how they just talk too long about the boring parts of the persons' lives, like the parts where nothing is happening in an action movie.
The different chapters of the book are more about different inventions than they are about different parts of his life.
Anyone who reads the book will still know a ton about his life, even though it has a lot abut his inventions.
One example of this description says “ ‘Spectacular’ is a mild word for describing the strange experiment with life that comprises the story of Nikola Tesla, and ‘amazing’ fails to do adequete justice to the results that burst form his experiences like an exploding rocket.
The book is very much written in journalistic voice with a dash of that early 20th century writing style that I love to read in biographies written at the turn of the century.
O'Neill's descriptions of the different phases of Tesla's life, the different laboratories, the traveling Tesla did, the experiments--while not complete in any sense, one can read Tesla himself and be overwhelmed by the technical details about his experiments--,his eccentricities, his loves and hates, and the physical descriptions of Tesla at different points in his life, make this a remarkably addictive and engaging book to read.The one thing I feel I didn't get out of this book was the sense of personal antagonism held by Tesla toward Edison--and vice-versa--when they were competing between the AC and DC power systems.
"During the last three decades of his life, it is probable that not one out of tens of thousands who saw him knew who he was" (308).Tesla - genius.
Not much common sense as far as money goes, OCD-ed, alone for the most of his life but giving up millions to help humanity, modest yet refusing a Nobel Prize (which was never officially awarded, only announced) due to pride.
He didn't give up after a disastrous fire, used his last $5 to feed pigeons, and died alone in a hotel room.His story is certainly an interesting one worth reading.
But either way, still worth my time.
This is the most even-handed biography of Tesla I've read. Rather than blaming his death in poverty on greedy capitalists, it focuses the cause on Tesla himself and his laser-like focus on his research. He could have easily hired someone to act as a business development manager, and continued to spend his efforts where it was truly beneficial; regrettably, even thinking that far on practical matters was not perceived to be worth his time. It's truly a shame that the world lost his brilliance as it did.
I found this book incredibly profound even though most of the electricity talk was over my head. Tesla was an amazing person and I was left with a deep what-if feeling at the end. How different would our world be if he had shared his later inventions and ideas? I thought it well written and though this was not a quick read--I frequently took breaks and read more entertaining books-- I really enjoyed this book.
It was fascinating to read about this amazing man, a true genius, who dedicated his life to science, but whose activity was sadly hindered by financial issues and by the ignorance or envy of other leading scientists. Too bad the technical details were mainly lost on me, as I don't have the necessary background.
I thought this was great, first book I've read about Tesla and a great intro. Written by a friend and contemporary, it takes a bit to get used to the style, but once you realize it, it's a great time machine. Definitely going to read more about Tesla and I find it amazing how forgotten and unrecognized he has become.
Согласен, книга о жизни великого ученого чья жизнь была наполнена оптимизмом и стремлением помочь людям, но постоянное восхваление Теслы как некоего ущемленного, непризнанного в многих "его" изобретениях, настораживает о правдивости остальной информации. И да, из книги получается, что если ты не гений от бога, то не стать тебе "полезной" личностью.
Shocking style
As an historian, I did, however, find the book an interesting artifact, a product of the period with a writing style to match.
As such, I found it almost as interesting to look at O'Neill's take on Tesla, as well as Tesla's work itself, from my current perspective--what would these two men think if they saw the world as it is today?
Although this book held little interest for me beyond the historiographic dimension, for one interested in electrical engineering, physics, or a scientist interested in the period in which Edison presented his discoveries, this is very readable and not unengaging.
The author of this book loves him some Tesla viz.: Even as he walked among the teeming millions of N
As a biography, the book accounts the life of Tesla in an extremely appreciative way, since the writer himself has befriended with the genius and admire him sincerely.
While I am not sure if the review is biased, I am amazed at the life of the sublime superman by his extraordinary capability, intelligence and passion.
I envy his talents.
I hope I can acquire the supreme happiness when one is totally devoted to his work, and make my contributions in a distinctive way.
I really like Tesla but this author is very repetitive and injects himself into the story way too much. I will have to find a better Tesla biography.5 stars = Yearly re-read4 stars = Re-read eventually3 stars = Very Good2 stars = OK1 stars = Pass on this one.0 stars = Couldn't finish it.
Though I am fascinated by Tesla, I have to read this book as research, so it is slow going for me. I never could read textbooks with much enthusiasm.Update: I changed my mind. As I got into it more, I found I wanted to know more and more about Tesla and so then couldn't put it down.Some research on the Internet may have helped cause this enthusiasm.
Actually, i've stopped reading it about a two weeks ago for simple reason: it's just a holy religious ****ing pamphlet about St.Tesla as a founder of the Boneless Manoly Church of Capitalistic Future of Социјалистичка Федеративна Република Југославија and nothing god-forsaken more. That's it.
An eye opening read which draws the reader into the life of the man who invented the 21st century. Despite being a bit on the long side, it felt nearly impossible to put the book down. I would highly recommend this book to any fans of modern day technology.
no wonder a car company is named after him Goes into detail about his life work. Explains why he was such a brilliant mind. Worth your time. Check out the comic by the oatmeal as well. It's what got me into reading the biography.
I couldn't get into the writing of the book. It's very dry and kind of impersonal, even though the writer supposedly knew Tesla very well. It also needs illustrations, for all the technical descriptions of Tesla's inventions for those not mechanically minded.
Wonderful.
Read 3/4ths of it. very interesting. Tesla was definitely a outstanding figure. Would like to know more about electricity and magnetism before i reread this though!!
Fairly amazing man, with some very surprising quirks. The book has an interesting style, the author was a personal friend of Teslas and possibly a hero worshipper of him as well.
A bunch of nice tidbits, but the overall effect is tedious.
