https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/232576.Harriet_the_Spy

Instead, she takes "write what you know" to a whole new level, keeping a notebook where she spies on everyone in the neighborhood and then documents every cruel thought she has ever had about them, including her best friends, then somehow justifies this as a way to learn to write better and more descriptively.2) Harriest does not want to be a writer to improve the world, become famous, or inspire people.
Harriet learned no lessons.
Book 33/100 of 20154.5/5
I grew up in Harriet's neighborhood (almost) and the descriptions of the New York of my childhood almost broke my heart.Harriet is a cranky adolescent, living in a cushy New York world that was already changing when I was young and going to "The Gregory School", which was really The Chapin School, located on East End Avenue, across the street from Carl Schurz Park.The typical "brownstones"  (single family, 3 and 4-storey houses) have mostly disappeared on the East Side of New York.
Yeah guys, he was mad because he got scammed because he bought a bootleg version of Dangerous Minds off the street (we were visiting family in New York at the time) so he took his frustration out that way as typical older brothers in the 90’s did for some reason.
These cheapo toys made all of us kids feel like real secret agents on the playground.Then the movie came out on VHS and the clamshell packaging was orange!
And Harriet gets in trouble for her acerbic and cutting observations when her (private) journal is stolen and all the kids in her class find out what she really sees when she looks at them.
I loved this book. Read it first in the fifth grade, then read it at least twice a year after that until it fell out of my book bag in the gym locker room in the seventh grade. Spent the rest of that term known as "Harriet" or "Fuckin' Girly Fag." I guess I preferred "Harriet."
I re-read Harriet the Spy last week and found myself noticing for the first time how deeply subversive and honest it is.
Something that moved me this time around was how defiantly Harriet and Janie resist the half-hearted efforts of their parents to make them behave with more conventional femininity, and how quickly their parents give up that scheme (as represented by the specter of DANCE SCHOOL).
As little as their parents understand Harriet and Janie, they also seem to have no real interest in changing or controlling them.
Harriet isn’t forced to kick arse in a fight to the death, or struggle to feed her family.
Life is tough, and eleven years old is plenty old enough to get out there and start fighting for what you need.Tell that to a generation who grew up on the creepy stalker vision of parental care presented in Love You Forever.This may not sound too startling to people who regularly devour dystopian and gritty urban YA fiction.
I just don’t want any drowned spiders in any lake that I intend to swim in.”Read this book if you haven’t already.
A large part of the reason I was so put-off by this book, is that I had set my expectations that I was reading a beloved and light-hearted childhood book about a girl who learns some life lessons after she is caught spying on some friends and neighbors.These expectations were way off.For one, I never read this book as a child.
I had it on my childhood bookshelf, and I think I had read enough of the first few pages to have learned how to play "Town" when I was 7 or 8, but I never read this entire book like I thought I had.
I turned to reading this now because it reminds me of happy childhood memories, and how much Harriet has meant to me, and how much I relate to her, and how that relationship has changed (or not) over the years.
I would like to think that Harriet's notebooks would evolve if we were able to see her grow into adulthood.Like Harriet, sometimes writing in notebooks has gotten me in trouble.
Or wanting to be friends with people who didn't give a crap about me, the ones who made my junior high years a living hell.
Life-changing. I am not kidding. She was my heroine."Lovely, lovely. Now let's see, vegetables first, vegetables..." Sport started to sprint for the door. Miss Elson pulled him back by the ear. Pinky Whitehead arrived back. Miss Berry turned to him, enchanted. "You will make a wonderful stalk of celery.""What?" said Pinky stupidly."And you"--she pointed at Harriet--"are an ONION."This was too much. "I refuse. I absolutely REFUSE to be an onion.""Sometimes you have to lie. But to yourself you must always tell the truth." -- Ole GollyAnd those illustrations!
The worst thing about it is that rather than learn empathy or the right lesson, the book ends with her having learned nothing and the horrible lesson that it's better to lie to people if you can't apologize to them and mean it.I can't blame Harriet fully though.
Virtually every adult in this book is unlikable to a degree.
No one ever seems to truly bring her inside some place, and I think this is what created the thoughtless, hurting, and even mean child that she is.It makes for an unsettling book for those of us who read it late in life.
Anyway, the other central message is that writing is a great way to explore one's feelings and exercise one's brain, and that really stuck with me, to the point where nowadays I pretend to write book reviews just so I can ramble about my fourth grade teacher.
(And perhaps gay.) I was of course not a weird kid, I was perfect, but if I had been weird, this book would have given me a lot of great ideas for how to handle my weirdness, and it would have done the same for my mom, and I would say this is a pretty good book to read no matter what level of weirdness you and yours are at.
Louise Fitzhugh was one of those rare children's book authors who actually understood what it meant to be a child, what the world seen through those eyes actually looks like.
Its like the only way she knows how to be close to people is by staying at a distance and watching.Harriet's imperfections are also what makes her stand out.
This book is ABOUT a child beginning to understand that actions have consequences, that poorly chosen words hurt people and as Ol' Golly puts it at one point "sometimes you have to lie."I remember things about this book, it stays with me in ways other books haven't.
When I was in fourth grade, I would have named Harriet the Spy as my very favorite book, even though I only read the first half of it.
First of all, Harriet's commentary in her notebook in hilariously funny.
As a kid, I could not get through the part when her notebook was found and she became the class outcast.
Copying from real life is easy; adding a storyline is the challenge.I'd recommend this book to kids who have an interest in writing, but only with parental guidance.
Having said that, it's one of the best books I've ever read.
But Harriet doesn't pull any punches, and when (as is inevitable) the truth about her writing comes out, she pays a heavy price and learns some valuable lessons about what a writer actually does.Or should.Harriet is extremely perceptive, and her skewering of her classmates is accurate, which is probably why it pisses them off so badly.
But the one thing Harriet never realizes is that being perceptive, seeing to the heart of things, doesn't have to mean being cruel.
Harriet sees, but she doesn't understand.The ending is particularly odd: (view spoiler)[Harriet's given the job of editing the sixth grade contribution to the school paper and uses it as an outlet for her writing ability.
She isn't named for the book but she did prompt me to read the book.Many of the books reviews I've read for Harriet the Spy credit it for being ground breaking its brutally honest portrayal of childhood.
She is left in the care of everyone except her ever absent parents who only actively take part in her life when everyone else has given up.
Her parents are only ever there to be off to parties or to be overheard arguing.Harriet meanwhile is given free reign to spy on her friends and neighbors.
Well, this review is not for children, and as it turns out, the book is a delightful read for adults as well as kids.I hadn't read it in a few decades, but somebody just mentioned it to me and I picked it up again.
As an adult reading Harriet the Spy, what shall we have to drink?I'm going to recommend something fun, lighthearted, easy, and yet surprisingly satisfying, with the most tenuous connection to spies.I speak, my friends, of the Moscow Mule.
Drink it in a hammock while you read Harriet in paperback and laugh out loud.
And in order to be a good writer she needs to learn more about life than she'll learn from her privileged home life or her fairly normal school life.So she spies, and she writes down what she sees and thinks, intentionally working on her descriptive writing skills.
She writes about her friends, schoolmates and family, and she writes about the people on her "spy route." She learns about people with different socioeconomic statuses and with different values.
But this was one children's book that truly changed my life.The book is about a little girl who fancies herself a spy, and keeps a "secret notebook" full of observations about her family, classmates and neighbors.
I imagine that most little girls who read this book started their own secret notebooks.
I certainly did, and never stopped, though mine came to be called a "journal" and later, a "blog." Plain and simple, this is the book that started me writing, and I never stopped.
Harriet the Spy was truly a Book That Changed My Life.
HATED THIS BOOK!
Seriously, what is the big deal about it?
I never read it as a kid, but it was on a list of "Books about Brave Girls" and I thought that we'd give it a go for a read aloud with my girls.
WORST BOOK EVER!
I HATED Harriet!
In fact, in the end she comes right out and says that she should just LIE!
We had a good discussion at the end of how we should NOT act like Harriet, and how disappointed we were in this book.
I cannot believe in all these years of reading this book, I completely overlooked the queer subtext. WHAT IS WRONG WITH ME? The things I learn from our classics readalongs! Also, one of our blog friends mentioned it's possible Harriet may be on the autism spectrum. One of those cases where discussing a book makes you look at something you love in a whole new light.Our whole discussion is here: http://www.themidnightgarden.net/2014...Read the comments, too--our readers/friends are so smart!
Harijeti stvari bivaju uskraćene, svi joj okreću leđa i ona postaje super-zla i to je to.OK nije to to, ali ne znam tačno šta je.Ovo je roman iz sasvim drugog vremena koji se javlja iz potrebe da kaže čitaociima da su posluga ljudska bića i da su i ljudi manje srećni i pametni od nas ljudska bića.
I zbog svih stvari koje je (svojom krivicom ili ne) Harijeta izgubila, ona se oseća baš loše, baš je teško za čitanje koliko se ona loše oseća, usamljenost i izgubljenost cure sa stranica.Dakle, knjiga je zaista mudra i lepo pisana i nudi puno uvida, ali da je smešna kao što korice tvrde - baš nije.
Tremendously influential when I was an angry, isolated early teenMental note: update review.
Unlike most characters in kid's books of this time period, she is not saccharin and sweet or naughty and waiting to be turned into a little lady.
I just cannot say enough about this book-and a truly lovely thing is that I actually had a hard time getting a hold of this book--not because it was out of print or neglected--but because it was always checked out.
A special shout out to my beautiful friend El...it was her deep love of this book that made me want to read it and I will appreciate that forever--she and I both have a lot of Harriet in us and that's a good thing.
I don't seem to be getting a coherent feeling about this book, so I may just start rambling and see what develops.
Sure, we want kids to learn that telling the truth matters but there is a higher value: that of kindness.
Telling the truth that a child has been abandoned by her Dad isn't kind.
The nurse is clearly where Harriet picked up the idea of observing people and "telling the truth".
A friend and I were trying to think of books with characters living in apartments and this was mentioned.
Harriet is far too rich to live in an apartment.
Harriet is a quirky kid, a bit out-of-step with her peers, and that was something I could always relate to (not to mention my childhood ambition to be a writer!).
Finally, I got around to replacing it earlier this week; next on my list is making my husband read it :-POne great thing about reading a childhood favorite over and over again is that, as you mature, you appreciate the book differently.
I always knew I liked Fitzhugh's style, but I hadn't realized until this reading what it was I so enjoyed.
I just read this for the billionth time -- this time out loud, to my son. Pronouncing each word forced me to notice the casual brilliance of Fitzhugh's prose. "There was a cold wind off the water, but the day was one of those bright, brilliant, shining days that made her feel the world was beautiful, would always be, would always sing, could hold no disappointments." "She looked out over the water to the neon sign whose pink greed spoiled the view at night." Dazzling.
3.5 Stars
I swear, re-reading this I realized that Harriet is exactly like one of my little sisters, so, she's going to be forced to read this soon. 😂😂😂
