https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/330729.England_s_Dreaming
Did he program a robot?(Also, NO, clothing did not 'become' costume in fucking -1968.- Moron.)Words I never wanted to read in this lifetime right there on page 56: "....another commission, this time for Ken Russell's flamboyant 'Mahler.' Asked to work out something for the climactic dream sequence where the Jewish composer confronts his Aryan anima...." PS Dear Savage: Describing any Ken Russell film anywhere ever as 'flamboyant' is not only bloody redundant it is INADEQUATE.
Also -- and this is why I don't actually read books I don't like v often -- I have to compulsively finish a book once I start it, or it really fucking bugs me.
Of course Punk and the Pistols didn't do anything to lessen the bile and angst with violence accompanying gigs and wearing emblems such as the Swastika guaranteed to light fires under many a person.The Sex Pistols' greatly helped (it is too strong to say they alone) changed how music was played and written, how bands were signed and promoted, how records were sold and marketed, how music was read about and how fans treated their idols and their movement including its involvement in politics.The machinations at record companies and the frankly mad, bad and downright chaotic behaviours of Malcolm Mclaren are fascinating and well told.
I really liked this book when I read it. I would probably hate it now and put it in the same league as anything Griel Marcus has written on punk.
The first 100 pages sets up this scenario with great historical detail, then the book takes off with blazing speed to detail the rise and fall of the Sex Pistols.Nihilism, Feminism and Racism are all intersecting themes during one of the most fascinating points in modern history--one which also helped consolidate the conservative movement that led to Thatcherism in the face of unfounded fears of the individualism in Punk (followed soon by Reaganism here).
He weaves the painful personal stories with history, economics and class struggle in a very compelling manner that makes this essential reading for people who want to understand current affairs and social movements that have nothing at all to do with Punk.
It's taken me a while to get through this, not because the book was dull or hard work, but because of the sheer volume of information inside, covering a relatively short time span.
Given the wealth of musical genres that followed it, off shots of the bastard son punk, we have gained inumerable benefits.In these times of woeful X Factor/Pop Idol karaoke, manufactured dross I yearn for something to reset the social agenda again.The recent "riots" (looting) have also provided an interesting parallel to the events around the mid to late 70s.
Who said history moves in cycles?
If you aren't interested in punk or the Sex Pistols, obviously skip this one.
I realise that even the briefest of historical moments can be long and winding when written about, and I appreciated all the precursory info about McLaren and Sex, and the most enjoyable for me was middle of the book, the section about the Pistols forming and gathering momentum; punk gathering momentum.
The focus was not only the Sex Pistols, but other punk bands in the UK and US, so the linear flow of the book could be rather muddied at times.
This must have been quite a task given the plethora of material but the complete, and in some cases deliberate camouflaging of events and reasons, that could have led to either some kind of hero worshipful bible-like book or to the usual skim, have generally been avoided.
Mr Savage has made an excellent review of the period and analysed the precursors whilst managing to keep the sense of wonder that was there all through the punk years.
Having been there (but hardly 'in' them) I found his book to be absolutely fair and very astute in it's analysis.This really is an excellent well-written book and as a bonus contains an excellent discography and bibliography.
And larded with plaudits such 'a claim to be the definitive work on the subject' (The Times, no less) and 'flawless' (Esquire), a book could very well sink beneath the weight of its own cleverness and self-regard.
It's particularly dramatic in the closing stages - the disintegration of Sid Vicious in a welter of unstoppable drug use, compounded by music industry indifference, Malcolm McLaren's ruthless yet comically inept scheming, co-dependency with his fucked up (sorry again) mess of girlfriend and the input of his appalling drug-addled bat of a mother, whom Savage inexplicably defends.
Faber Forty-Fives are a series of six short e-books which attempt to tell the story of British popular music from the birth of psychedelia in the late sixties to the post punk era of the late 1980's.
This book concentrates on the formation of the Sex Pistols; the influence of Malcolm McLaren, early venues and the whole Punk lifestyle.
This ends with the Sex Pistols signing with EMI, but it is an interesting perspective on a fashion, and music, which seemed to come from nowhere and sparked an enormous reaction at the time.
Οι Σεξ Πίστολς είναι το πανκ, είναι η αρχη του και δεν είναι μόνο αυτο.
Είναι η γροθιά στον καθωσπρεπισμό, η εναντίωση στην μουσική βιομηχανία, στην τυποποίηση της μουσικής, στην τυποποίηση των πάντων.
Έκαναν την αρχη και έδωσαν ένα καινούργιο κίνημα μακριά από λουστραρισμένες και στυλιζαρισμένες επιλογές.
Το πανκ είναι η μετάλλαξη του ροκ εντ ρολ και όπως όλες οι μεταλλάξεις έτσι και αυτή είναι κάτι που αναστατώνει.
Η Αγγλία όπως σε πολλά πράγματα στην τέχνη έτσι και εδώ έδωσε τα φώτα της στον υπόλοιπο κόσμο.Το βιβλίο δεν είναι για όλους, όπως άλλωστε και η πανκ.Ειδικά για άτομα μισοχαμένα στα όρια της ψευτοκουλτούρας και της παραζάλης.
I like cultural and social context with my music history and this book has it in spades.
This fascinating account of the creation of one of music's most notorious and influential bands during the economic meltdown of 70's England is one of the best music books I have ever read.
Savage was there from the beginning as a teenager in Manchester and offers firsthand knowledge of his subject.
Sometimes heavy going, particularly in its account of the dada art movement of the early 20th century but overall an excellent read.
I continue to refer to the excellent discography in the appendix for essential listening.
This book sure is long. It's exhaustive, which in a certain way is a good thing. But the writing is often disappointingly flat. Could've used an appendix to make up for lack of descriptive clarity about various people (i.e., people would be introduced, then go away, then pop back up and for the life of me I wouldn't be able to remember who they were).
brilliant history, not only of the sex pistols, but of the whole punk movement and cultural turmoil in britain at the time. i would love to sit down and have a cup of tea and a chat with jon savage, his knowledge is encyclopaedic.
Detailed and comprehensive history of punk; well researched and well written. Hang on a minute; this is a history book and it's my youth they're talking about. Getting old !!
All you ever wanted or needed to know about England's nascent punk scene. A must have for fans of the Sex Pistols.
This may be the longest thing I have ever read. This is almost a day-by-day account of the Sex Pistols. I am particuarly fascinated by Malcolm Mclaren and want to read more about him.
it's not Please Kill Me, but the Sex Pistol weren't the Stooges. Still pretty great.
We can do great things, we can be better, eventually events will force us to change, but I think waiting to forced into a corner is laziness.
And the fact we aren't makes me want to scream sometimes, hence my love of punk.In England's Dreaming, I finally found the book that told me everything I ever wanted to know about the punk movement but was afraid to ask.
The first of these is the deconstruction of the McLaren myth, showing the utterly haphazard nature of how UK proto-punk moved from being an insignificant scene at the end of the King's Road to the touch-paper for a worldwide cultural revolution.
Rather than moulding his protegés, McLaren comes across as an opportunist who rode the wave of mounting chaos, exploiting rather than creating it.The book's structuring device is story of The Pistols: their chimera-like beginnings, their halting road to notoriety, the scandals, bans and bust-ups that made their name; and ending in murder, suicide, dissolution and most deadeningly, court battles.
England's Dreaming deals cogently with the contradictions of punk: right-wing imagery and left-wing politics, art students and working class youth, high-concept performance art and the social realist punk formula.
It's not a book for beginners--you'll be lost if you don't already know at least a little about the Sex Pistols, the Clash, and other early punk pioneers, as well as the tropes of punk performances.
England's Dreaming is exhaustive, and can be exhausting to read.
Though I knew the basics beforehand, this book was immensely useful in expanding that understanding of the social mileau that punk emerged from, and how it relates to its musical forebearers.

I found this book very informative on the subject of punk.
I would read this book again as I was surprised at how much there is in there and how clever many of the concepts and thinking behind the movement there is.
The first 2/3 of the book I found to be a roller coaster ride through the origins of punk and the Sex Pistols.
I have watched documentaries on punk and punk bands and i read in this book many things that I'd heard before but this account fills in some gaps.
It wasn't as eye opening as a book like Can't Stop Won't Stop by Jeff Chang on Hip Hop, or Rip it up and Start Again by Simon Reynolds on Post Punk, or The Rest is Noise by Alex Ross on Modern Classical.
Still, it's a good book.
Most of all it was interesting to immerse myself in an era in which a large subculture dedicated itself to a totally bohemian, anti-corporate, anti bourgeois way of life.
You just don't get that any more, even with youth subcultures, when the likes of Jay Z go on about being businessmen and entrepreneurs.

This is the definitive work on the first generation English punk rock explosion. One of the best books on punk rock ever. You want be able to put it down.
Pretty dang definitive.
I read this a while back. Jon Savage's music criticism was legendary and ground breaking during the punk/new romantic days. I had a subscription to Rolling Stone but would buy Sounds just for him.
My favorite rock bio - just enough psuedo-academic social analysis to really excite!
I knew going in that this book had a mixed reputation for being both exhaustive in its coverage while also a tedious and dull read.
McLaren's life is covered in minute detail, and a good deal of the book deals explicitly with the history of far-left extremist political groups in the UK, Germany, and France.
Even with all the discussion of left-wing extremist political groups like Beider-Meinhoff and the Situationists, there is little discussion on how the actual band related to all this.
In short this is a book that often focuses on some of the more boring aspects of an exciting time period while covering so much ground that it often feels rambling and unfocused.
Zarobki Sex Pistols pochodziły wyłącznie z koncertów (kiedy im oczywiście płacono) [...] McLaren musiał też płacić za benzynę i czasem za wynajęcie sali.
Ze sprzętem nie było problemu, bo był kradziony.
Podobnie z kosztem utrzymania zespołu, bo był zerowy.
Historia zespołu, który nagrał tylko jedną płytę, ale zdążył na zawsze odmienić wizerunek kultury i zapoczątkował zmiany w myśleniu, które są trwałe nawet i dziś.
Powstanie i schyłek punka jako okresu kultury zwłaszcza na terenie Anglii, przedstawiony w niezwykle szerokim aspekcie, nie pomijającym mody, filozofii, literatury i przede wszystkim muzyki pozwala zanurzyć się w tym świecie i prześledzić jego dzieje so - - - Never Mind The Bollocks Here's The SEX PISTOLS!!!
