https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/939424.Solomon_s_Vineyard
It begins like classic Hammett (a wandering daughter job, a murdered partner, "Red Harvest" style intrigue), gradually transforms into Chandler baroque, and then--three-quarters of the way through--metamorphoses again, this time into "The Arabian Nights" Mike Hammer style: a crypt crammed with gold and jewels revealed to our hero by a hot blonde called "The Princess," who is very into very rough sex.
It also features: a razor-wielding negro bouncer in a bordello, a brother mourning his sister who, when reckless with grief, fires randomly into a steam room, a black-robed assassin, a roadhouse shoot-out which ends with an exploding car, and a religious cult grown rich on bootleg hootch that still has time for human sacrifice and purchases of large lots of rotting meat.
and hell."Dunn-dunn-dunnnnnnnnnnn!Private dick Karl Craven is hired to spring a rich man's daughter from a freaky cult and enters into a world of cranky gangsters, willing women and more religious nutjobs than you can shake a shepherd's crook at.Labeled too hot for US publication in 1941, it seems pretty tame by today's standards.
Right?)(view spoiler)[Okay, it's probably unlikely your mom was screaming "Hit me!
(hide spoiler)] Though there's nothing particularly outstanding here, it's still a swell read, PLUS there's the added bonus of possibly the greatest gangster name ever - Pug Banta.Noir fans should not miss this one!"Bodies always give me goose pimples."
Even for me, a long-time fan of the noir movies and of the hard-boiled detectives, the first impression on meeting private investigator Karl Craven is that this is a tongue-in-cheek parody of the genre stereotypes.
Together with Chandler and Hammett, Latimer is one of the founding fathers of the style that stormed and brought down the rules of the criminal investigation game in the British mannner.Karl Craven is not a nice man.
I saw weight there, and control, and, brother, those are things I like in a woman."Our intrepid narrator is a man named Karl Craven who's just arrived in a small, out-of-the-way Midwestern town on some mysterious errand.
No one is quite sure exactly what goes on behind the closed doors of the Vineyard, but you can bet it's titillating and maybe even dangerous.Karl Craven is a large man with even larger appetites and he drinks and eats his way through this story at a mind-boggling pace.
*3.5 Stars*  From the way her buttocks looked under the black silk dress, I knew she'd be good in bed. The silk was tight and under it the muscles worked slow and easy. I saw weight there, and control, and, brother, those were things I like in a woman.  Yea, from that first line, we know that this book puts the "hard" in hard-boiled. This one might just be the "hardest" of them all. I can see now why it's publication was delayed for FORTY years(!) due to content. It follows private detective Kar
I thought it was pretty cool that Craven's true nature was kept vague throughout the story, causing the reader to never fully know where he stood on certain things and never be able to predict what he would do.
He spends a good amount of the book either napping, eating, taking multiple showers, reading Black Mask magazines, or having rough sex with the cult's princess, who likes to get punched around while in bed instead of getting kissed.
Karl Craven believed there were two ways to approach the private detective business; underground or on top.
In other words, Karl Craven was not the kind of guy folks would describe as warm and fuzzy.
If you find misogyny, racism and homophobia in a fictional setting intolerable, you may wish to look elsewhere for your reading material.FYI: On a 5-point scale I assign stars based on my assessment of what the book needs in the way of improvements:•	5 Stars – Nothing at all.
•	1 Star - The only thing that would improve this book is a good bonfire.
This was the second time I'd read this.I own the Black Mask Online edition but decided to download the Kindle version for reading while on vacation.
I became suspicious about the Kindle version after reading comments someone over in the Hardboiled Group Reading Thread posted re: the Kindle edition being an edited version of this.I decided to wait to return home and read my original Black Mask Online edition.I had fun with this.
A quick, fun, gin-soaked ride of a story.
It has everything but an abortion and a tornado.I would be interested in reading THE FIFTH GRAVE, the edited version that was published in the US to compare the differences.The only reason I'm not giving it five stars is because the story is so secondary to the scenes and atmosphere that by the end, I just wanted more scenes and didn't really care about the story.
Rarely do I embrace style, over substance, but this book is so hard-boiled that it's hard to read without a smile on your face.
The most brutal detective novel ever written. A dick gets sent to Heartland USA to find a missing girl hidden in a crazy religious compound protected by vicious racketeers. Our rotund hero is (literally) in bed with the Cult's princess and the gangsta's gun moll, too. Loads of sex and murder, "Solomon's Vineyard" never gets boring. And I didn't even mention the necrophiliac part, either.
A private detective is hired to bring a rich man's niece home.
There's also a local mob boss, who has the prettiest girl in town.This book was written in 1941 but banned from publication in the U.S. until 1988, though I can't figure out why.
The "kinky" sex scenes are brief and almost laughable, but no more graphic than any other pulp writing at the time.The writing can be flat as a pancake for a few paragraphs here and there but Latimer is good at action, with gangland shoot outs and fistfights being plentiful.
Well, maybe it was, but I thought the plot (what little there was of it) got overwhelmed by the hard-boiled elements, which was basically some rough sex with a masochistic nympho and the buckets and buckets and vats of bourbon and beer downed by our hero-detective no matter the hour of the day.Whiskey for breakfast, bourbon bottle in the shower or sauna, raw eggs in whiskey for hangovers, bourbon for lunch and dinner and mid-afternoon and early evening, followed by beer chasers.And then there's the food.
This book is touted as a forgotten classic, suppressed when it came out in 1941 because of its sexual frankness and general lurid disreputability.
By current standards, of course, it's pretty tame, and the only reason to read it is because it flaunts just about every touchstone of the classic hard-boiled PI novel, in spades.Karl Craven is a St. Louis PI hired to get a millionaire's niece out of the clutches of the weirdo cult she has fallen in with in a smallish town of unspecified location.
He likes booze and broads, he carries a gun, and oh yeah, his partner has been mysteriously murdered while investigating the cult.
Solomon’s Vineyard started in a big hole with me because I made up my mind right away that the book’s protagonist was an unlikable creep who said things like, “she’d swing a hip until it looked like it was going out of joint and then she’d throw it back in place with a snap making the buttocks quiver under this dress that was like black skin.” In that passage the narrator/protagonist is describing a woman’s walk that he considers particularly sexy, but, no, gross.
That does not sound sexy.
Now, I enjoy noirish patter, but Latimer lays it on a bit too thick for my taste.
Here it is the titular Solomon's Vineyard taking center stage, a "religious colony," where they "raise grapes and hell."  (just an FYI: it looks like Latimer may also have taken notes from Cora in The Postman Always Rings Twice.) The novel gets pretty out there sometimes, not just in terms of the masochistic sex (very un-noteworthy these days), but also in what's really going on in the town and more importantly, up at the Vineyard.
All in all while I hated the main character, I did enjoy the novel.
“ I defy any fan of Hard-Boiled/Noir crime fiction to read the above first paragraph of 'Solomon's Vineyard' & not feel compelled to read on.
The comparison in no way detracts from Latimer's excellent & arguably most Hard-Boiled/Noir novel.
In this classic noir novel, St Louis private eye Karl Craven, who likes his steak rare, his liquor hard and his women fallen, arrives at the small town of Paulton to protect his wealthy client's daughter from a religious cult.
Private eye Karl Craven is, as they say, a piece of work!I can't recommend this example of classic noir highly enough.
Really loved the way the novel starts because there is no clear sense who the protagonist is or what he is up to and the way that is slowly revealed through the action of the novel creates suspense and tension and that just pulled me in deeper and deeper.
Like most hard-boiled protagonists, Craven makes an equal amount of dumb moves that put him in peril and then an equal amount of clever plays to vanquish his antagonists one by one.
Latimer does a great job of alternating these moves and that makes this novel a compelling rollercoaster ride as well as a compulsive page turner.
Originally published in 1941, Solomon's Vineyard was ban in the US for it's mature content. The book was publish 74 years too early, it easily fits right into today's publishing world. It's a hard boiled book about PI Karl Craven, who eats large amounts of food, drinks a lot and quite a ladies man. Can only imagine what Craven would say about thongs, braless dames or dames that go commando. I liked the book, found it tamer, than I thought it would be, and definitely will read more from Jonathan Latimer.
This is the kind of '40's style noir that is as fun to read as a ride through a Coney Island Scare House from decades ago. It's got everything from whorehouse scenes to grave robbing. And, guess what? A femme fatale named Princess. When the first line of a book reads: "From the way her buttocks looked under the black silk dress, I knew she'd be good in bed", then you know you have the real thing in your hands. All the hard-boiled writers of today owe a tribute to Jonathan Latimer.
I'll have a whisky and some steak.....for breakfast and keep the booze coming! And that dame in the corner is a looker too. I don't care that she belongs to a gangster thug who bumps off people.....bring on the action. And the cops...their all crooked too. I know just how to play em. Watch your back
Hollywood pervsion and noir.
A short and convoluted crime noir brimming with hedonism. Like ANTONY AND CLEOPARTRA, the characters in SOLOMON'S VINEYARD live only for pleasure, and most of them end up dying for it.
He wrote a book- Solomon's Vineyard- that was so violent and filled with sexual heat that it was banned in the US for forty years.If you like Mickey Spillane, you will like Latimer.
The opening line is as follows: "From the way her buttocks looked under the black silk dress, I knew she'd be good in bed.
I guess she knew I was following her." Wow. And, that's the leader of the cult- the Princess as they all call her who controls the cult and the town with an iron fist when she isn't busy seducing PIs in her sadomasochistic fashion.Our PI narrator gets to his broken down hotel and sees that the women were looking at him.
Latimer would have done well to warn his readers, the way Waugh did in a brief foreword: "...this is a nightmare, and in parts, perhaps, somewhat gruesome.
He follows his partner to a small mid-western town; their job is to rescue a rich man's niece from the clutches of a sinister cult.
But I'll avoid spoilers.I can recommend this book to those who like caustic, tongue-in-cheek spoofs with liberal doses of kinky sex and violence, although the kinky sex and violence is relatively tame by contemporary standards.
Those who don't like this sort of thing have been warned.
This novel is quite a find.
Made one list I saw ranking the best 15 private eye books of all time.
Perhaps American P.I. novels.
If the author's name had not been on the book I would have bet that Hammett wrote it.
I've never read anything that was so much like The Continental Op. Jonathan Latimer has to be the most underrated writer of the pulp style hard boiled school.
If you like the genre, this one is a must.
They withheld this book for publication for a few kinky moments although you would have no trouble shooting this story for basic cable these days.
Outside of the controversy it's a well done detective caper.
There is an homage to Red Harvest here too in the detective's endgame.
I wouldn't say that it's as good as the best Op stories but it's as good as the average ones which is pretty good praise.
The essence here is that our protagonist and his partner are hired to get a rich man's daughter away from a cult.
The partner is killed during the story and that gives the detective one more thing worry about.
An excellent specimen of hard-boiled detective fictionI'd never heard of Jonathan Latimer before buying this book on a whim.
How could I go wrong?
Certainly the 99 cent price made it worth a tumble.The book was written in the early 1940's but was banned from publication for forty-odd years.
You can see why after reading the first paragraph!
Latimer put to paper what Chandler only obliquely referred to.
The basic story line isn't new but the story resolves itself is very unique.A must-read for any fan of the hard-boiled detective genre.
Solomon's Vineyard by Jonathan Latimer is a book that time may have forgotten, but worth seeking out for fans of hardboiled fiction and pulp. Check out my full review for more information on this banned book from 1941.http://everythingnoir.com/2015/09/21/...
Great fun. Easy read. First half better. Once Latimer got all the balls up in the air he had to get them all back down again
Good stuff if you like this genre.
This is definitely the most hard-boiled detective story I've ever read.
I really liked it and yes, it was amazing when you consider the amount of action and pace for a novel that will soon be 80 years old.
Craven the name the protagonist gives out as his moniker, is super tough but definitely very flawed.
Craven has a conscious but only on his terms.
So if you like hard-boiled detective novels and aren't squeamish or too PC to realize this is just a reflection of the times in which it was written, then you'll love this read.
