https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12875355-death-comes-to-pemberley
I respect James as a mystery author, but this was appalling in most of its particulars: plot, diction, character, setting.
And apparently James has no interest in the beloved characters AS characters as they neither act or speak like themselves (even when quoting their earlier dialogue), nor does she allow them to be changed by the (pointless/flaccid) events of this novel.
Which begs the question: if James cannot write the characters, if she had no sense of the subtlety or a feel for emotional plotting, why bother to write this book?
I am in what I presume to be the target demographic for this novel: female, passionate about Jane Austen's novels, a long-time reader of crime fiction and a fan of PD James to boot.
Indeed, if James' name had not been on the cover, this is a book I would not have contemplated reading, for while I love Austen, I have an instinctive prejudice against the Austen prequel-sequel-continuation-fanfic industry.
If I keep going I might not know when to stop.I know from my long experience of reading James' novels that she is a writer of competent police procedurals.
Although the point of fan-fiction escapes me entirely (I can't help but think of tribute bands; I have no more desire to explore fan-fiction than I would to see my approaching-middle-age cohorts belt out Whitesnake's greatest hits), Death Comes to Pemberley reads like a tender squeeze of affection from one national literary treasure to another.If you do sink into this literary treat, know that your Jane ear will delight in the recaptured cadence of her prose and that you will be enchanted by the sense and sensibilities of Regency Britain.
Lydia arrives at the Darcy home in hysterics, wailing that her husband Wickham has been shot by a man named Denny, Wickham's friend.
The characters have very little relation to Austen's, and the wit and humor is as dead as poor Denny.How an accomplished author takes several interesting ingredients--a murder mystery and the Pride and Prejudice setting and characters--and manages to stir them together and bake them into a stiff, boring, humorless lump of underdone pumpernickel bread, is a mystery that, sadly, will remain forever unanswered.I kept thinking of the title of an old Ogden Nash poem: "Will You Have Your Tedium Rare or Medium?"I feel like I'm being generous and kind-hearted rounding up to a two star rating, but it's reasonably well written, if boring as watching paint dry.
Walk-on roles for characters from some of Jane Austen's other novels, while they may raise a smile, only serve to emphasise how poor the characterisation actually is.
If one started with a hackneyed Victorian melodrama about a poor servant girl undone by a heartless aristocrat, and attempted to transplant it half a century back in time without worrying too much about period detail, changed some character names, and interpolated a few passages linking back to well-loved Jane Austen novels you would end up with something very close to this book.
I love Jane Austen - and I love P.D. James too (in different moods, naturally).
But this book....It started off intriguingly enough when Lydia (fifth and most reprobate Bennett daughter from "Pride and Prejudice") runs into Pemberley, where her elder sister now resides, screaming that her husband has been murdered.
Not your average Jane Austen fare, but enough to make a modern reader sit up and take notice.
This is followed by maybe a hundred pages where I was still enjoying the experience of a "new Pride and Prejudice" as P.D. James seemed to have captured the essence of the characters, and also up to a point, Jane Austen's style of writing.
Why did she write it?
This is perhaps the worst of all the Pride and Prejudice sequels and prequels. Over the years I've read some outlandish stuff-Elizabeth and Darcy enjoying a quickie in the morning room, an insane woman haunting Pemberley and making Darcy unfit for Miss Eliza-and other such rubbish. But nowhere else did they seem so dull and lifeless, so devoid of charm and spark. Be forewarned, the death referred to in the title is really that of Elizabeth Bennett which is simply unforgivable.
It invites the reader to think a little differently about Jane Austen's classic novel.
However, the use of Austen's source material, though meant as an affectionate tribute, is wooden, often heavy-handed and often overdone.
Mary ends up in a situation which for her is suitable (in fact I had thought of a similar fate for her long before reading this).
But Kitty is scarcely mentioned, is portrayed in a way that doesn't jive with Austen's version of her, and is relegated to the shadows.
Lady Catherine, suitably housebroken, barely barks at all.
Finally, Georgiana's fate, while happy, seems engineered in a rather facile way and perplexes me also.
I'm sure I wasn't the only fan to get all excited about the idea of PD James doing Pride and Prejudice; what insights, what delicate twists of humor, what light would she shed on Jane Austen's world?So I feel cheated.
Knopf, a publishing house that's even older than James (OH DAMN I WASN'T GOING TO MENTION HER AGE BUT.
But I care a whole lot that agents, editors, publishing committees and executives were more interested in the fact that 98% of James fans would read this book and that it was bound to sell well than in whether or not IT DESERVED TO SEE THE LIGHT OF DAY.For shame.
Some years after Pride and Prejudice, Lydia Wickham (nee Bennet) stumbles through the front door of Pemberley in hysterics.
Darcy and some of the other men go out in search, and find (view spoiler)[Mr. Wickham crouched over Denny's body.
The full story of the murder is randomly turned up in a deathbed confession, and then another character equally randomly confesses the rest of the plot.
Usually a murder mystery involves a long period of finding out clues, or talking to witnesses, or figuring out the motives--and instead the characters just go over the same three facts ad nauseum.
Sounds like a great read--Jane Austen and a murder mystery all wrapped up in one!Ok, now it's several months later and I've had the opportunity to read the book.
But I admit it failed to live up to the expectations of an Austen novel or a good murder mystery.
As for striving to achieve the heights of Austen, I feel James spent too much time apologizing for the actions of the characters in P&P.
I would have liked to see Darcy dig deep to find his inner Sherlock Holmes and be the one to solve the mystery.
This order of events is significant in shaping the characters of Darcy, Wickham and Georgiana who then commit the acts which drive the plot.
James never deals with the implications of this at all.3.) How in the hell can you have a P&P sequel in which Elizabeth and Darcy barely have a single conversation?
BUT NO.7.) The best comic characters (Mrs. Bennet, Lady Catherine, Mr. Collins) make appearances only by letter.Fortunately it only took me a day and a half to read this so I spent almost as long composing this rant as I did cringing through the book.
However, I really enjoyed P.D.James' treatment of Elizabeth, Darcy and Georgiana, because it is clear that she respected Jane Austen's creations and tried to breathe new life unto them, presenting their lives after their marriage.
The characters of Elizabeth and Darcy are well-written, and it wasn't difficult for me to picture them as if they'd sprung out of Jane Austen's book.
I still would like to see more of Elizabeth's input, and less of the rumblings of her sister and Georgiana's lovesickness, but this is just me.
One of my favorite mystery writers meets one of my favorite stories; it's gotta be good, right?
James does a good job of capturing the spirit and even language of Austen, not perfectly, but definitely nothing to cringe at.
There were long passages throughout the book that just recapped the original story.
Granted, not every one of James' readers will have read P&P, but I'd venture most of us will have.
Unfortunately, retelling the original was not the only time James strayed from the "show, don't tell" rule.
So if you're an Austen fan or a P.
D. James fan, don't miss it.
I wanted so much to like it, but the more I read the more disappointed I became.
What I found tiresome was the story-telling.
The first word of dialogue is not spoken for many, many pages and much of the dialogue is actually a series of lengthy monologues that sound more like narrative.
The last fifty pages are characters explanations of how the murder came about and why they went to such lengths to cover it up.
I hate to write a bad review, but with the publisher charging $25 Cdn for this book, I wanted to warn potential buyers.
Even if that good writer is considered to be the doyenne of her genre, readers seeking the focused wit and social observation of the original creator will close her book frustrated, especially if many reviewers extoll the sequel's virtues as entertainment and fitting homage.A few brief passages sparkle with the reflected brilliance of Austen and most of them have been extensively quoted in reviews.
If you are looking for the good lines, read those and forget the book.
Most disappointingly, perhaps because of her own preferences for central male characters, James exerts virtually all of her energy on expanding on Mr. Darcy's character instead of allowing Elizabeth to remain front and center.
Authors note:I owe an apology to the shade of Jane Austen for involving herbeloved Elizabeth in the trauma of a murder investigation,especially as in the final chapter of Mansfield Park Miss Austen madeher views quite plain; 'Let other pens dwell on the guilt and misery.I quit such odious subjects as soon as i can, impatient to restore everybody not greatly in fault themselves to tolerable comfort, and to have done with all the rest.' No doubt she would have replied to my apology by saying, had she wished to dwell on such odious subjects, she would have written this story herself, and done better.
P.D James 2011I love love love this.Makes me want to read it even more.
Unfortunatley, as much as i wanted to love this, it was a little bit too menacing for me.

I hate to mark it 'read' as I did not finish it.I found it painful to read--so many errors in period, errors in tone, errors in characterization, humorless and altogether so disappointing I wish I had not spent money on it.
This book was absolutely delightful. Perhaps not to an Austen purist, of course. But as a PD James fan and an Austen fan, this was a fantastic read.
But, once borrowed, Jane Austen’s characters deserve to be handled with the same wit and humor they were accustomed to, and here PD James miserably fails them all.
Maybe a better title should have been Lots of Housekeeping Issues Arise When Death Comes to Pemberley.For the majority of this novel, we are expected to read and reread and read again the same account of that one evening, which was aptly explained the first time, and was not so many pages back that I really need to keep re-reading it.
Not until the end of the book do we get an info-dump that explains why we read the first two hundred plus pages of repetitive text and the ending is just (view spoiler)[ wrong place wrong time?
A creative spin on historical crime fiction, this isn't my favourite of PD James' works but it still has an impressive style all its own.
Life is orderly and good at Pemberley, as long as one stays out of the haunted woodland.Darcy’s younger, and still unmarried, sister Georgiana is also in residence being courted by two beaux: her cousin Colonel Fitzwilliam, and the young, ambitious, but dishy attorney, Henry Alveston.
Off into the haunted woods go the search party of Darcy, Alveston and Col. Fitzwilliam to discover a body in the woodland that Lydia is certain is her husband.
James continues building the mystery slowly by adding in elements of the haunted woodland, the curse, and the ghostly figures reminiscent of a Grimm’s fairytale.
A murder mystery by P.D. James that takes place at Jane Austen’s Pemberley is a reading experience not to be missed if you are a fan of these authors.
It is clear that James (who claims a lifelong passion for Austen) had great fun playing with the characters from Pride and Prejudice.
She even refers to a few choice characters from Austen’s Persuasion in this novel that takes place six years after the marriage of Elizabeth and Darcy.
This seems like a cop-out solution, but I have decided it would probably be the way Jane Austen would have ended a murder mystery, had she been inclined to write one.
I love Pride and Prejudice and I like P.D. James in her own element, and what doesn’t work about this novel is the blending of the two.
I would pretty much ascribe to the theory that when the original author leaves his characters, their story is done, unless he decides to pick them up again.
Meanwhile we are all at liberty to imagine their further adventures if we wish.A close friend of mine loved this novel and felt it completed Pride and Prejudice.
I should always trust my better instincts.I could have better appreciated this novel if I could have imagined these as new characters, involved in their own story.
She's an excellent writer, I cannot understand why she completely failed to capture any trace of the personalities of Darcy and Elizabeth.
I've loved her books in the past, and this was really a big disappointment.
The intro chapter is ridiculously long, really is there anybody who doesn't know the story of Pride & Prejudice who is going to be reading this book?
And if there was, she could have worked all that info in in a more interesting fashion instead of the tremendous info dump.
Then she proceeds to make Darcy and Elizabeth's relationship completely joyless and strips them both of any interesting thoughts or actions.
A recap of the P&P plot was only to be expected, and it was amusing to hear it from the point of view of Meryton society gossips, who suspect Elizabeth was maneuvering to catch Mr. Darcy from the first time she laid eyes on him.
Six years have passed, but the book ends with Darcy apologizing to Elizabeth all over again for separating Bingley and Jane, and for his awful proposal!
The author also repeatedly inserts recognizable phrases - Elizabeth has “fine eyes” and people worry about the shades of Pemberly being polluted.Other than the repetition and rehashing, the writing isn’t bad.
But the characters are lifeless, and there is strangely little interaction between Elizabeth and Darcy.
Bad.
P.D.James writes an Austen mystery.
When I read about this book, I knew I had to read it.
When I started reading it my brain was slightly confused because it was P.D.James but I was in the early 19th century and I haven't been there recently.
I have read some comments of "slow" parts of the novel and lack of a mystery but to me it was all in keeping with a novel of the time where behavior of the protagonists in fairly excruciating detail is what's on parade.
That is what keeps James separate from from the "Sea Monsters" books.
While I was reading this, my rating kept bouncing back and forth between a three and a four star.
I am letting my rating land on the four star because the ending wrapped up quite excitingly and it was all tied together with a happy ending that I really enjoyed.
D. James, I have read several of Austen's novels.
While I may not be able to guarantee that you would enjoy this novel, I do feel it's not nearly as bad as what the ratings on GR says it to be.
Try it out when you are in the mood for a gentle mystery and feel like visiting the characters from Pride and Prejudice.
