https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/299758.The_Citadel_of_the_Autarch
So now that all the big reveals have come through, plus a very nice one to redefine the rest of the series, I can officially say that I *like* this series instead of just sitting around being mystified and weirded out by it while wondering how to justify the traditional action events with the truly odd.And now I know.It's pretty awesome, but not quite up to the level of mindfuqery that I was prepared to expect based on all the multiple time-travel and memory-cannibalisms that we've been subjected to.
As if those weren't quite enough, right?Still, one has to be impressed by the almost Dune-like scope near the end, the complete and utter laying out of reveals, the expected solution for the sun, and of course, Severian's Fate.
I am by no means competent to review this literary masterpiece, but — having read the litany of confusion on the review pages of this volume and its companions — I wish to state the following, simply in order to be helpful.1.
It is impossible to understand The Book of the New Sun on a first reading.
He loves to play with symbols, and he does it on practically every page of this book; but most of the time he does it playfully, as a literary conceit, and for the entertainment of the best-read among his readers.
Džin Vulf nije bog ali je neko manje božanstvo, bar ako gledamo po Knjizi Novog sunca (i Spokoju, ne zaboravimo Spokoj).
U četvrtoj knjizi se konačno razrešavaju bar neke najvažnije tajne iz prethodnih delova (ni izdaleka sve) i stičemo jasniju predstavu o većoj (beskrajno većoj) priči u kojoj je Severijan odigrao izvesnu ulogu.
I cela tetralogija definitivno i trijumfalno prelazi iz epske fantastike u čisti SF od one najbolje vrste u kojoj se diskutuje o sudbini čovečanstva i smislu postojanja i skiciraju neke ako ne verovatne a ono fenomenalno upečatljive putanje evolucije i razvoja moralnosti, a sve to jelte preko avanturističke povesti o mladom i naivnom mučitelju, pune digresija i umetnutih pričica u rasponu od Kafke do Borhesa ali s tu i tamo nekim omažom Prustu, plus tri kila zaboravljenih reči kojima nas Vulf nemilice obasipa.
Unfortunately, life is short and I’m unlikely to be willing to relinquish reading time to a re-reading this series.
I do plan, however, to read the fifth book set on Urth when I reach it in my reading project.SPOILERS WILL LIKELY ABOUND FROM THIS POINT FORWARD!There are definitely similarities to Frank Herbert’s Dune series—at least with regard to the nature of the Autarch.
If I’ve got it figured correctly, Severian is chosen by people from the future of Urth who spelunk into the past to make sure that events occur as those people desire it to.
There are a number of female characters, but they don’t interact much—their attention is riveted on Severian.
4.5 stars rounded down. A very satisfying ending to a wild ride. :)The Book of the New Sun series overall gets 5 stars, and is automatically added to my "reread someday" pile.
(Actually, that’s not quite true – he apparently wrote an extra book in 1987 called The Urth of the New Sun, which I may or may not read in the future.)This was a difficult series to review because it’s really just one long book split into four, and – like many promising stories whose ultimate value hinges on how well they turn out – I couldn’t really judge it until now.
(It also gives a clever twist to the royal pronoun “we.”)The problem with the Book of the New Sun is that while Severian’s retrospective memoir narrative works wonders in establishing a great fantasy world, it fails at actually telling a good story.
4.0 stars.
Excellent end to a unique and ground-breaking science-fantasy series.
I have never read anything like this before.
Now that I have completed all four books, I will need to go back and re-read them (or re-listen to them) again as there is so much going on that I believe the second time through may be even more enjoyable than the first.
Campbell Award for Best Novel (1984)Nominee: Britsh Science Fiction Award for Best Novel (1984)Nominee: Locus Award for Best Fantasy Novel (1984)Nominee: Locus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1984)Nominee: Nebula Award for Best Novel (1984)
For this last volume, it's maybe easier just to set it up, partly because if you're reading this review you're probably going to finish the series, anyway, and partly because I don't entirely understand what all happened in this book.
It will be the number one thing on my radar if/when I do the re-read that seems necessary to make sense of the series, as Severian himself tells us at the end.As Peter Wright writes in this review (http://ultan.org.uk/review-botns/): "The Book of the New Sun reminds us of our potential and our vulnerability as readers and, in so doing, it reminds us of our potential and vulnerability as individuals."Let me take this in an epistemological direction (epistemology being the part of philosophy that looks at knowledge: what it is, whether have as much of it as we think, etc.).
This is the fourth book in the series The Book of the New Sun. There’s still one more book, but this was the conclusion to the main story arc that our main character, Severian, has been telling us.
I’ve seen several people say the series improves with re-reading, and I can definitely understand how that would be true.
:) Still, while he exasperated me a few times throughout the series, and occasionally did things I disliked very much, he also grew on me and I mostly enjoyed reading his story.This book wrapped things up pretty well, although not in a neat bow for sure.
The perpetual conflict between the Ascians and his Commonwealth has been lurking off-stage in the first three of his books, but here we learn with Severian that "War is not a new experience; it is a new world." He watches energy weapons flash violet on the horizon and feels the ground shake beneath him.
Severian will experience the horror of war: a country boy traumatized by killing more people in a day than he'd seen in his entire life, the fear before a battle, the appalling deployment of powerful weapons and bizarre soldiers (from dwarf archers riding blind swordsmen and rainbow-winged naked women wielding energy pistols in either hand to children and old people who have no business being in an army), and everywhere confusion and carnage.
“The rusted chains of prison moons are shattered by the sun.
My eyes and hands were his, I knew the work of the hives of the bees of the House Absolute and the sacredness of them, who steer by the sun and fetch gold of Urth's fertility.
I knew his course to the Phoenix Throne, and to the stars, and back.
Easily 5 stars for the series as a whole.4.5 stars for this 4th installment; the extra half-star is in appreciation of the fact that Wolfe managed to satisfactorily wrap up such a tangled and contorted plot. I've read many books that beg for a second reading, but this is the only one I've read where the narrator literally instructs you to go back and read it again. Who am I to argue with the Autarch, whose plot twists are the delight of his subjects?
And so concludes one of the strangest fantasy series I've ever read.
At times I felt bowled over by the meandering narrative, beautiful prose and superb story telling but at others I felt a little lost trying to wrestle with the cryptic meanings and grasp just what he author was trying to say.I particularly loved the first half of this book, while Severian convalesces after a particularly severe fever, he is called upon to adjudicate between several suitors who are trying to win over a woman and she decides that she will marry whoever tells the best story.
I will definitely re-read it eventually though as it truly is a fantasy masterwork.
Nemam puno za reći. Najbolja knjiga ovog ciklusa, maestralno privođenje kraju. Gospodine Wolfe, moj duboki naklon!!
From fragmented miasma to coherent denouement, The Book of the New Sun is a hero's journey from ignorance to enlightenment... the hero being the tenacious reader. Flutter-bys need not apply.
http://www.fantasyliterature.com/revi...
I was completely dumbfounded every time I was able to solve the inner puzzle of some of the many masterfully hidden truths in this text.This is a challenging book to read, but it's ten, a hundred times rewarding.
I cannot stress enough the importance of every sentence, every word, every little detail in Severian's long journey.
This is a challenging, perfectly crafted book, that rewards those willing to completely submerge themselves in it.As Severian himself points out, this book demands a re-read, not only because of its complexity, but because it will be, in his own words, a book written again.
And so this epic tetralogy closes; actually, this is rather the fourth volume of one long novel, because things didn’t start making a lick of sense before the third book, and even know there are lots of things I don’t understand.
Looking back, I see I gave the second book four stars and not five.
In retrospect I’m not sure why that was, although like I said, answers to the many great mysteries that begun in the first book didn’t start popping up until the third book, so I suppose I was very bewildered as I finished the second one.
This series as a whole would have been a lot better if it hadn't been written by someone like Gene Wolfe. Great ideas marred by Wolfe's bizarrely reactionary politics, crammed full of misogyny and regressive shit from beginning to end. It's like wading through shit and occasionally finding a 20 dollar bill. Did not feel worth it in the end. Third book was p good though.
Staggeringly good as always. The series is so deep. and so rewards rereading, that it's hard to not dip back into it every few years. This final volume feels like its broken into three clear segments - the lazaret, the war and the autarchy - and each gives new insights into the world and, increasing;ly the underlying philosophical and religious underpinnings of the series. If you have made it this far alongside Severian, dear reader, you will not be disappointed. But it is no easy road.
Cool story, cool ending. I wish the author would stick to science fiction, though, because there is nothing more annoying than a scifi author who thinks he sounds all clever by adding science fact to his book (like trying to explain how the scifi stuff works with real science) but then getting it wrong. Antimatter does not have negative gravity, and a photon cannot travel at a different speed than another photon when both are traveling through the same medium. The story deserves five stars but for getting the laws of physics wrong I reduce it to four.
Thoughts on the full New Sun set here: https://hilbertthm90.wordpress.com/20...
This is going to take some time.There is a frustration in science fiction that within at least certain currents of the genre, authors keep returning to the same ur-text.
(There's a more accurate name for that, but I'm doing a thing, here.) Just as modern fantasy invariably borrows its basic plot structure--or, at least, a significant chunk of it does--from Tolkien's narrative in The Lord of the Rings and its oft-mocked plot of "bringing the Object of Power to the Place of Significance," sci-fi seems to be returning constantly to an original plot that inspires many imitators.
It's just that structurally, I can't agree with Wolfe's choices to cram the first half of the book full of basically unrelated materials that seem almost like padding (seriously, a storytelling contest?) while totally rushing the second half where Severian really comes to terms with his destiny as the New Sun, the nature of the aquastors, what's happening with the Corridors of Time, Severian's actual career as Autarch, etc.What's more, unless you're a supremely careful reader, most of your questions about the Book of the New Sun won't actually be answered by this novel and you'll have to read the fifth one, The Urth of the New Sun, to really see what's going on.
The cenobites treasured up the relics of the sannyasins because the sannyasins had approached the Pancreator.
ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature.The Citadel of the Autarch is a satisfying conclusion to Gene Wolfe’s The Book of the New Sun.
All of this is explored in the context of the strange characters, situations, and places that Severian meets on his way.The Book of the New Sun is not an easy read, but it’s what speculative fiction is all about — it’s brain-bending, it makes the reader consider and question, it stretches the intellect and opens the mind to new ideas and experiences.
In The Book of the New Sun, Gene Wolfe accomplishes all this and does it in a beautiful way.
So now I have read the New Sun cycle more times than I can count (but at least a dozen), forward and backward and every which way.
I just read it aloud to my wife for the second time.
The first time I read it to her, I was careful never to explain the many mysteries unfolded within, in hopes she would enjoy the experience of discovery herself.
This time I took the opposite approach, explaining every little thing I could along the way.
I don't think Wolfe holds up very well to a deep feminist reading.
- 'All the world was a relic.'This is the least successful book of the series with regards pacing, where the early stages of Severian's extended illness and the story-telling competition - though fascinating in itself - perhaps stretch over a little too long before the wider narrative kicks back in.But the I have always felt that properly 'The Book of the New Sun' is single work, the piece-meal release of four volumes being nothing but a publishing concession.
Read as part of a whole the becalmed first third would have been more appropriate.
(Volume 4 of 4 of "The Book of the New Sun.") Well, now I get it.
I've never read anything else quite like this -- an epic sci-fi fantasy told entirely from the point of view of a character whose perspective is radically different from ours, leaving it to us to piece together the contours of his universe as well as, often, the details of the plot.
I'm tickled to no end that there's still a coda novel ("The Urth of the New Sun") plus two more stand-alone sagas ("Long Sun" and "Short Sun") to read -- plus this one to return to.
I don't rate many books at five stars, and while the others were good, they varied between 3.5 (The Sword of the Lictor) and 4.0 (Shadow of the Torturer and Claw of the Conciliator).
Plus, the extent of Severian's unreliability (and a few probable reasons) really becomes clear in the last third of this book.
Ultimately, there are still a few things unanswered My advice is to read all four like one long book, take a short break, and then start reading it again.
A good end to the series.
I feel like this was the end of the road for this series.
I know there is a 5th book, and maybe I just read them too quickly, but I have no interest in reading #5.
I think I'll read this series again in the future just to see what I missed the first time around.
Either way, like I said before, I enjoyed the journey and this series would be a good one to discuss in a group setting because I think everyone would take something different away from it.
Maybe I should find some forum dedicated to it and explore it.
