https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/902355.How_Much_Is_a_Million_
“How Much Is a Million?” is a mathematical children's book by David M.
Schwartz along with illustrations by Steven Kellogg and it is about how Marvelosissimo the Mathematical Magician shows kids how much it would take to count to a million!
What really help me understand the mathematics used in this book was how David M.
When I first read this book, I thought that the numbers used in this book to describe how much time or space is used when counting to a million were exaggerated and were meant to just humor children.
Topic: mathematic awareness, connecting informationCurriculum Uses: I would use this book for a read aloud or to support a math lesson about understanding the magnitude of the larger numbers such as a million and a billion.
Also, the tone that the author establishes helps the readers to form a positive attitude about understanding math.Social Issues: This book does not address specific social issues; it just discusses concepts.Illustrations & Text: The illustrations in this book help support the text somewhat closely because they depict the concepts that the text is addressing.
The problem is, you just can't conceive of a trillion.
The book attempts to convey the relative scale of these numbers via how big a goldfish bowl w/ that many goldfish would be, how tall a human ladder with that many humans would be, etc.
I always thought soBut a trillion is just too big.
If you tell me you can conceive of a trillion I don't believe you(A goldfish bowl big enough to hold a trillion goldfish would be the size of a city harbor.
Who cares.)Also they say a million little stars would take 70 pages to show, and they show 4 consecutive pages of stars but then stop.
If you wanted to count from one to one million....
it would take you about 23 days.That is just the beginning of the journey.As you read the notes from the author at the conclusion of the book, you find that he has even taken into account that it takes about six seconds to fully annunciate the number 369,472,888,227.
:o)All of his math calculations, including his data that the average height of a elementary school pupil is 4'8", are also found in the author's notes.
I want to recommend this book to my older sister, my brother, Eric, and any other math nerds out there.
What if you wanted to find a goldfish bowl big enough to hold a million or a billion or a trillion gold fish?
This humorous, but accurate book follows a group of kids and Marvelosissimo, the Mathematical Magician, to answers these questions.The illustrations show energetic children amazed at the sights Marvelosissimo shows them.
I also love that the wizard and kids travel in a hot air balloon with their pets, a unicorn, 2 cats, and a dog!The text is concise and full of alliteration, “How tremendous is a trillion?” And it shows Schwartz great enthusiastic for the subject.
Kindergarteners make an excellent reading audience.
At tutoring every week, we primarily practice letter, number, and quantity recognition with the group of students, so when I found How Much is a Million?
This is a good concept book, and I was already thinking of how I could write an interactive reading lesson plan around it (probably with the focus of fantasy v.
Writing down "100" and knowing that it represents 100 items are two seperate concepts.
Mostly, I was just happy that the students sat through the entire book.
They are wiggly, as kindergarteners should be.
This book offers a fun and imaginative way to describe just how big a million, a billion and a trillion are using concrete figures of a child's height, time, a quantity of water, and pages of stars to illustrate the somewhat abstract concept of such large numbers. The information was mind-blowing and the illustrations are fun. We are looking forward to reading If You Made a Million and On Beyond a Million: An Amazing Math Journey by this author.
Have you ever wondered how much really is a million?
Well if you read this book, you can stop wondering.
This book talks about how a million would look in many different forms.
I would love to have this book in my classroom and no matter what age, I would love to talk to the children about numbers.
When talking about numbers you can talk about small numbers a lot, but we never really talk about big numbers, numbers that seem intangible to us.
So when we talk abut big numbers, we can read this book, and this would let the children see how tangible a million would be.
Had lunch with the author today.A really good description of orders of magnitude using things children can relate too (children standing on shoulders, the time to count, goldfish and stars in the book)http://pussreboots.pair.com/blog/2015...
I love this math book. Fun!
This book is all about counting to extremely large numbers like one million, one billion and one trillion.
Not only does it talk about counting it tells you what it would look like if there were that many children or other objects.
It helps put very large numbers into concrete concepts that children can grasp such as children stacked on top of each other and how high they would reach.
I think this book probably would appeal to children who enjoy numbers however I see this book more useful in the classroom setting.12/1/17
Summary: This book makes it fun to understand math.
This book uses great examples like if one million kids climbed into one another’s shoulders they would be taller than the tallest building.
They make it fun and they have great pictures that go along with what is being said.Like or not: I really like this book.
Classroom: I would use this book in my classroom if I was going to do a math lesson understanding place values and understanding what a million really is.

o Summary: This book helps children under the concept of a million. Such a difficult thing to understand is broken down for kids to understand and have fun doing so.o Grade level: secondo Appropriate classroom use: during a math lesson for funo Individual students who might benefit from reading: kids that like matho Small group use: Kids can read and then talk about what a million iso Whole class use: Read during a math class to have a break from doing actual math worko Related books in genre/su

Marvelosissimo the [fictional] Mathematical Magician introduces children to the [non-fiction] mathematical concept of very high numbers (one million, one billion, and one trillion) using a variety of relatable illustrations and examples (e.g.
The book's colorful ink and watercolor illustrations on each page help readers to visualize the examples given for each progressively larger number.
Three pages of author's notes at the conclusion of the book detail the precise mathematical calculations behind the illustrative examples given in simplified form in the main body of the text.
Can you count to one million? How long will it take you? Want the answers to these questions and more? Read this adorable book. I loved this book! This book is a great way to put large numbers in to perspective for kids. I'm an adult and I thought I knew how much one million, one billion, one trillion were, yet I was still shocked after reading the book. The illustrations are fabulous! This would make for a great "Across the Curriculum" read that you could incorporate with a math lesson! Kids will love this book!
A million is an awfully big number, so big it is hard to put into perspective. Schwartz is able to provide some engaging and child friendly perspective on just how big a million actually is. This is a fun (sometimes silly) engaging book to introduce children to larger numbers and give them better number sense.
In the book a Mathematical Magician teaches children just how much a million is, in ways they can relate too!! He even explains a billion and a trillion. I LOVE this book because for many kids math is not a easy subject. This book makes math seem exciting!! I would read this to any age group because I think they all would love it.
This is a really cute book. It uses the same examples to illustrate the amount of one million, one billion, and one trillion. It helps give children the idea of how truly big these numbers are. Kellog's illustrations are beautiful, as usual. It would be a good book for reading aloud or story time usage.
Genre: Informational Grade Level: 2nd-4th Unique Feature: There are math calculations in the back of the book that are related to the scenarios in the book. It's really cool that the students are able to see how they discovered that it would take about 95 years to count to one billion and how they are able to figure those things out for themselves too! It makes math interesting.
This picture book (informational: math)was about children learning how to determine how large of a number a million is, and then a billion and a trillion. The pictures of this book really help students learn how large these numbers are by using children, stars, and fish bowls as measuring tools. This book makes math exciting for young learners because of the fun facts included for measuring such large numbers.
This is a great book for encouraging curiosity and math thinking and discussion in Elementary. Probably too advance for primary. The author included problem solving strategy in the back of the book to help. The illustrations were fun too!
Great introductory book about really big numbers. It seems like it was a bit over my kids' heads, but I also don't want to underestimate the value in reading things like this to them because they continually shock me with what they recall about our read-alouds.
Not my favorite math book and it really didn't hold my third graders attention. It could be that by third grade they are harder to impress by the words million, billion and trillion but actually I wasn't very impressed myself.
What an interesting way to talk about arithmetic! Using children who are an average height of 4'8", and stars, water, space - and more - amazing calculations are discussed. The back 3 pages have more detailed information. Fun illustrations.
Maya: I liked it because the children are taller than the moon.
Great little book for kids illustrating how much a million would be in terms kids can understand. But there is math and truth in there! Great for the grandkids. Teaching and having fun, too!
My favorite big numbers book.Class average rating: 4.2
Really cool book for visualizing numbers -- probably too advanced for preschoolers but will probably entice the older ones.
I thought this book was quite informative. I enjoyed the illustrations and was amazed by the numbers. I'm glad I came across this in a list so that I would remember to read it to my class!
