https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/275320.Bartholomew_and_the_Oobleck
I still haven't read the The 500 Hats of Bartholomew Cubbins, so I cannot compare this sequel to the aforementioned story. But for this follow-up, the lessons about having a sincere apology and on admitting his fault really makes a big difference. Being contented in life is another great lesson that this children's story book wants to impart to everyone.
I use them as gifts in a hurry, as handy reference guides for all kinds of things, and as greeting cards ( well worth the extra postage, and the inside blank page up front gives you tons of writing space.) This book is not only my favorite of all favorites in the Dr Seuss collection, it is also my preferred method for making up with a loved one after a very big, very gooey, very green (and not in a earthy way) relationship disaster of the first order.
Anybody who thinks Dr Seuss "isn't very realistic," or "just nonsense for kids" will someday find him/her-self sitting up to the royal neck in it, and have to say "I'M Sorry." At such times, a willingness to laugh at oneself through the paintbrush of Dr Seuss can be a lifesaver.
“Bartholomew and the Oobleck” is the sequel to Dr. Seuss’ timeless classic “The 500 Hats of Bartholomew Cubbins” and is about how King Derwin wanted to create a weather that has never been created and ends up disastrous results.
“Bartholomew and the Oobleck” is definitely a classic tale that children will enjoy for many years.
Dr. Seuss’ story is exciting and creative at the same time, especially during the scenes where Bartholomew tries to warn everyone about the oobleck covering the town.
“Bartholomew and the Oobleck” is definitely one of Dr. Seuss most exciting books ever created and will definitely keep many children interested in this book.
Pretty good story about a mad king abusing his power and trying to take on the weather. To the king rain, wind, snow and sun are all pretty boring so he gets his creepy magicians to conjure up something new. So they create Oobleck which creates all sorts of problems for the king, turns out there is no hope unless the king takes responsibilities for his actions.Dr Seuss teaches us in this book that when it's raining green sticky stuff always blame the king.
At that point I realized that you didn't need to read the original story to understand the sequel since it is a standalone of itself.During the course of the year, the King is growling towards the sky whether it rains, snows, sunshine, and windy and one day Bartholomew wonders why he keeps growling.
Saying those magic words makes the King hard-headed and on the mission to possess the sky.He summons his famous magicians and tells them that he wants something different to appear out of the sky and at no cost.
An acceptable sequel to the "500 Hats". Young Bartholomew, boy genius, saves the day with a solution for ridding the Kingdom of Did of the nasty green Oobleck. Can't help but believe that the book might have inspired the old horror movie "The Blob" with Steve McQueen.
Had to put this book down on account of very strange magical things. Very sad I had to but I had to put it down.
Am I the only one who dreads having to read their child a Dr. Seuss book?
It'll take a disaster for the king to say those simple words.
And bored with the snow.Being king has its perks, and His Majesty demands something new from the sky.The CharactersBartholomew Cubbins is the challenging page boy in the Kingdom of Didd.The Kingdom of Didd is……where King Derwin rules and has his own royal magicians.
The bellringer, the trumpeter, and the Captain of the Guards are all begged to help.Oobleck is what the magicians conjure.The Cover and TitleThe cover has a bright red cover with the title and a huge horizontal oval in white as Bartholomew watches on in horror as a green-covered blob rushes past.
My niece had heard this Dr. Seuss book before; last year her school did a Dr. Seuss week, and over the course of that week they read so many Dr. Seuss books she actually came to rather loathe his stories.
My nephew and I, I though, had never heard of this story.I was actually pleasantly surprised by this book.
It was fun to read!My nephew really enjoyed the story, and he was eagerly trying to figure out what the king's magicians were going to call down from the sky.
Even my Seuss-saturated niece liked Bartholomew and the Oobleck after we read it together.
A lost classic. Certainly lost to me, I don't recall ever seeing this one and certainly not reading it. And yet this won a Caldecott Honor. A bit wordier than the later books - but absolutely tells a story and a pretty good one. And includes a King as the bad guy and good manners as the good guy.
I read this lesser-well-known (to me, at least) book by Dr. Seuss aloud & to my surprise, my 12th grader listened! After reading, we enjoyed analyzing what possible meanings there were to the story: global warming? acid rain? greed? the ripple effect our behavior has on those around us? I believe an argument could be made for all these themes, but one rises above the others as being just a bit more powerful: the importance of taking responsibility for actions & saying "I'm sorry."
2.5 starsI really love some of the Dr. Seuss books.This was one that I didn't think was thatgreat. Maybe if I had read it when I wasyounger, I would have enjoyed it more.
It was funny I just didn't enjoy it that much
It gives moral lessons on many subtle things but one especially: realizing your mistakes and apologizing for them.
I love this book because it taught me the importance of apologizing for my mistakes at a young age.
I love Bartholomew’s defiance of the King because I can relate to defying people when they are being ridiculous and they don’t realize it.
I would recommend this book to anyone who can read because no matter how old you are, you can always use a reminder on how to be humble and take responsibility.
It’s a fun read and I recommend it to everyone everywhere!
Bartholomew and the Oobleck is the story of a bored old king who is tired of limited weather options.
So when I received this book I thought heavens no, that's much too long and much too black and white - my destructotot will never sit and listen to that.
Shock and delight when my son sat with rapt attention through page after page of simple black and white sketches!
He was intrigued by the story once we got past a little misunderstanding: he thought the made up word Oobleck was what he calls "bleque" (tembleque).
A wonderful story about an arrogant king, introduced in The 500 Hats of Bartholomew Cubbins, who decides that he wants to rule the sky as well as the land, and brings down horror on his kingdom when his magicians cook up a dangerous, sticky new kind of precipitation.
The story ends with Bartholomew, his page-boy, courageously speaking the truth to his foolish king, and the king's repentance brings about freedom for the land.There are echoes of King David's deadly hubris (2 Samuel 24) in this story of divine retribution.
Additionally, Bartholomew's example of speaking truth to power is an excellent one, and for those who wish their children to grow into thoughtful, conscientious citizens, this isn't a bad place to begin.
1950 Caldecott HonorFavorite illustration: When Bartholomew steps outside the palace to see the full impact of the oobleck fallout.Favorite line: The wizards rhymes--for example: Shuffle, duffle, muzzle, muff.
We are men of groans and howls, Mystic men who eat boiled owls.Tell us what you wish, oh King.Our magic can do anything.Kid-appeal: For someone who's used to the rhyming text of Dr. Suess, this was surprising to have a more traditional storybook, but I ended up liking it more than a thought.
Some more familiar Suess-like moments make brief appearances and are delightful.
It is a pretty long story, and my seven year-old thought it was okay.
Batholomew and the Oobleck, by Dr. Seuss is book of fantasy.
I listened to this book being read on YouTube and it is great.
King Derwin is angry with the sky for only having rain, snow, sunshine and fog.
King Derwin asked the magicians to make it happen.
Oobleck is nothing like rain, snow, fog or sunshine, it was green and gooey and got all over.
The king didn't like that and apologized to Bartholomew, saying "I'm sorry" and it made the Oobleck go away.
I think kids of all ages will love this book and it has fun, weird words.
King Derwin of Didd is tired of the same old four things coming down from the sky, so he decides to get his magicians to create something new – Oobleck. However, his page Bartholomew things something is dangerous about it. Is he correct?One of Dr. Seuss’s older books, it can be long and isn’t told in his typical rhyme. Still shows his creativity, however, and there are some good lessons worked into the story without preaching as well. Fun for older kids and adults looking for a longer picture book.Read my full review at Carstairs Considers.
Sometimes the most magical words of all are "I'm sorry."Here we see a foolish king with a very wise servant - that no one listens to.
Of course.
So when the king causes a monstrous disaster, it's up to the small boy to fix everything.
Not the first time the device is used (or the last) but done so very well.
We see some hints of the later Dr. Seuss rhymes in words the wizards say.
And some of the illustrations really remind me of his later works.
Overall though, I very much liked this book and the message it gives.
This is a relevant book to read before discussing polymers or the different states of matter with your students. I would recommend reading excerpts for the younger students, because this book is quite lengthy. This book also send the message that we should sometimes be content with the way things are. The king was greedy and wanted to rule the sky as well as the land showing that too much pride can be a bad thing. I would recommend this to a student who liked to boss others around with some constructive questions to consider.
This is a great story by Dr. Seuss that is different from his normal books. It doesn't have the sing-songy rhyming narrative, and although the names and some things are a little silly, it's a fairly no-nonsense story. Our girls really liked it, especially because of the word, "Oobleck." They thought that was so funny.I'm pretty sure I read this as a child, but it just didn't stick with me like some of his other stories...
This and "Horton Hears a Who" stick in my imagination out of all the Dr. Seuss books. I loved the little worlds he created in zany words and pictures. I was delighted to know he was a real person living in my city. I recognized that his trees resembled actual devil palms that grew around San Diego, California. The idea that books were created by real people hit me like lightning. What could be better than that?
I was a little daunted by the length and density of this less-familiar-to-me Dr. Seuss book, and was unsure about how much my first graders would understand or enjoy it. But, wanting to the a science activity about the "oobleck" was enough cause to read it to them, and I'm glad I did. The long text zoomed by because of the exciting story and dramatic rhythm. The kids had no trouble following it and staying engaged.
A Dr. Seuss book that doesn't rhyme! I like it. It's also one of the longer Dr. Seuss stories that is great for older students. And this is one of the three Dr. Seuss books to win a Caldecott Honor. I don't ever remember reading this one when I was young, but I wish I had! This is a very nice story about Bartholomew the page boy who tries to warn the King not to want something new to fall from the sky.
The other Bartholomew book has him working for the king, who has gotten bored with the weather and wants to see something new coming down from the sky.With the help of the royal wizards, he gets his wish, but of course it goes horribly, weirdly wrong.Fun little bit of fantasy. Would have liked for Suess to have done more Bartholomew books.
I thought that this story was quite amusing. With a slightly unpredictable outcome you are left wondering if maybe the kingdom will perish underneath a great big pile of oobleck. I liked this book, you should check it out.*Taken from my book reviews blog: http://reviewsatmse.blogspot.com/2008...
Our bedtime story last night, and at least ten others before. This time my eight year old read it to me. Dr. Seuss is timeless. I enjoy reading these stories as an adult and catching a whole level of irony just for the more mature and jaded. A bit like watching classics Looney Tunes now and getting the grown up joke.
Such a cute story from Dr. Seuss that I didn't know about. My 6 year old loved this book and keeps asking me to read it again. This isn't your typical Green Eggs and Ham type of Dr. Seuss. This is much more of a narrative story with very little rhyming and a lot more meat to the story ( I thought). It's also quite long. I would think this is a great story for older Seuss fans and early readers.
