https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/63033.The_Savage_Detectives

Poetic Novelist RBYoung Juan's life in Mexico City is filled to the brim with young women and sexual encounters, conversations about poets and poetry and magazines, lots of coffee and marijuana, but through it all Juan is a kindred spirit to that narrator of Journey to the East, when Hesse's seeker says, "For our goal was not only the East, or rather the East was not only a country or something geographical, but it was the home and youth of the soul, it was everywhere and nowhere, it was the union of all times." Juan has a strong sense his true home is his poetic voice and, in a way, the visceral realists is his 'league'.
Many of the characters stories in Savage Detectives have only small references to the major players, Belano and Ulises, but even they take something away from these encounters that will pass through them and their actions into the people they subsequently interact with.
The novel could have been told from a perspective closer to Ulises and Belano, but through all the various perspectives we get a well rounded idea of who they are, and also learn the lives and aspirations of all those they meet.
Don’t judge too harshly?Savage Detectives is an incredible investigation into the lives of the Visceral Realist, a group based upon actual people in Bolano’s life.
In The Savage Detectives, as Bolaño pays homage to his younger self and his comrades in poetry, there’s a maturity and wisdom mixed in with the affection, humor, excitement, and sadness that he brings to his exploration of the Visceral Realists, who came together to form an artistic-political-counter-cultural movement in Mexico City in the 1970s, similar to the Infrarealist movement that Bolaño belonged to.
Bolaño represents himself through two characters in the novel - Juan García Madero, a young, naive student who navigates sexual, artistic, and emotional transitions and rites of passage, and Arturo Belano who, along with Ulises Lima, heads up the Visceral Realists, a group of young poets who are striving to forward political and artistic aims through their poetry.
The two key poets in this case, Arturo Belano, a Chilean, and his Mexican friend Ulises Lima, call themselves visceral realists.
Bolaño can be savagely comic as he mocks his generation, maybe taking things a little too far in terms of ones mentality, yet equally tender when dealing with family issues and growing up.Bolano is certainly a visionary, but that doesn't necessarily mean he writes to please, the casual reader will probably hate this, maybe the hardcore reader too.
In this quasi-autobiographical story, a group of intense young poets, men and women, knock around in mid-1970’s Mexico City.
They exist in odd hours, wander aimlessly through the city, drink, make love, steal books from bookstores, and talk poetry constantly.
The first part is their youth in Mexico City where a group of them free a woman from her pimp and flee to the northwestern Mexican desert in search of a perhaps-mythical woman poet.
Bolano was a Chilean who lived mainly in Mexico and Spain.
a reviewer wrote that she enjoyed Savage Detectives, but complained that it was 'about nothing' -- that she read nearly 700 pages and left with this notion proves her a total jackass and describes precisely why this is a great book: as with a life, Savage Detectives cannot be reduced to a few rote themes or ideas; it's a messy, sprawling jackson-pollock-painting of a book.
and then, as the book and their lives move along (i've read many times that this is a book about youth.
I want to sum up my thoughts about this book using a quote from its pages…“…What a shame that time passes, don’t you think?
I went full of fear,my stomach dropped, my head was buzzing:I think it was the icy wind of the dead.I don't know.
I set off, I thought it was a shameto leave so soon, but at the same timeI heard that mysterious and convincing call.You either listen or you don't, and I listenedand almost burst out crying: a terrible sound,born on the air and in the sea.A sword and shield.
This book makes me want to wander around the globe.
My interpretation of 90% of the passages I encountered in Savage DetectivesI walked around Mexico City for a while. And then I sat in a coffee shop and wrote poetry for seven hours. And then I saw a crazy poet I know and we argued about Octavio Paz. And then I read (name drop about 30 Latin American poets of whom I've never heard). And then I wanted to see Maria.But somebody who cares a lot about the history and insider references of Latin American poetry might love it. I only managed 150 pages.
When I entered the bar, I noticed that the visceral reviewers had left, but Señorita Rúbin was still there, and when she finished her shift she asked me to accompany her back to the first-story flat she rented in the seedy part of Coyoacán reserved mostly for the city’s prostitutes and drug dealers, and I went.
I read the diary slowly, trying to buy time and hoping to imbue myself with the fortitude to fend off questions from the young señoritas meant to ascertain what information I was not yet ready to give, information that would inevitably lead the conversation over the disappearance of the three Steves back to Jacinta Rúbin.This review is as much about Roberto Bolaño’s novel as the novel itself is about visceral realism.
This is a study of multiple lives lived to the fullest.It’s ostensibly about Arturo Belano and Ulises Lima, two alter egos of the author, Roberto Bolano.However, in contrast to “Edie”, it gives the impression of being more about a fictitious scene (a radical poetry movement called “The Visceral Realists”) than these two individuals who were pivotal in it.Still, we learn a lot about these two, while listening to the tales and concerns of the interviewees.It’s interesting that Belano and Lima are not interviewees, although there is no overt suggestion that they, like Edie, were dead at the time.Those Damned AccretionsIt’s customary for the author of an oral history to superimpose a narrative or some kind of chronological or thematic timeline over the top of the interviews.If there is a thematic structure to the narrative of “TSD”, I am not conscious of it after just one reading.I don’t really need one to enjoy it.
In a certain poetry workshop he meets the leaders of this group, Ulises Lima and Arturo Belano, who not only promote avant-garde poetry, but through the sale of marijuana and other contraptions aim to finance literature magazines and find the whereabouts from an old poet called Cesarea Tinajero.
Due to an absurd encounter with some pimps, the leaders of the group, Madero and a prostitute, flee to the desert of Sonora, north of Mexico, where they take advantage of investigating the mysterious destiny of the Poet in question.In the second part, the most novel of the book is the crossing of voices, that is, dozens of characters tell their experiences and encounters with Ulises Lima and Arturo Belano (always poets, delirious and brave) by different points of the globe and in a lapse of 20 years (1976-1996).
The life of Bolaño and Belano so closely intertwined, most of us will never know where one varies from the other; a double-helix, the germ cell of a Legend.For the handful who don’t know what this novel is, I’ll provide the briefest summary I can: Parts I & III are Juan García Madero’s diary entries chronicling how he, Arturo Belano, Ulises Lima and Lupe, the prostitute, met in Mexico City and fled to the Sonoran Desert— to escape Lupe’s pimp (Lupe and García Madero) and to find a lost literary hero of the Visceral Realist movement, Cesárea Tinajero (Belano and Lima); Part II is a series of oral histories/testamonies/interviews (less the questions and the voice of an interviewer) presented in the chronological order in which they were made except for one which seems to have occurred in a single telling but split into sections across chapters—the order of the entries has little or nothing to do with the narrative chronology.
I read this book because a friend of a friend recommended it to me.
It reminded him of The Sorrows of Young Mike and because of the style and the way some of the sex scenes were described I understand where he was coming from.
But, in the end this book did very little for me.
The first section was readable but the second was not as it was more of the same page after page.
I started the third because I thought the book might get better after returning to the first section's format; it didn't.
This book might have been better if it were only 150 pages.
The world intervenes on our plans and silly dreams and makes disasters of all of our lives; the most stable of us are made stable by the will of another, and our stability is the residue of compromise.
I see the works of Bolaño as the beautiful rubble of a man who fought to serve the inner Void and who stared down the wind as to fix it to his eyes, hold it, a task at which of course he failed; all of us who try to hold the truth fail; prismatic shards are our recompense.
Bolaño created a novel and a narrative that (IMHO) attempted to capture the energy, the personalities, the youth and the mortar that held together Mexican and Latin American poets during the mid-1970s.
It feels like he took every poetic image, idea, stray hair and paper from every Mexican poet during the past forty years and laid them all down on black velvet to be examined.
Thinking about all those writers whose books are featured on the site made me wonder about the artists who dedicate themselves to various arts like writing, poetry, painting, music, acting, film-making, et al and how many of them actually achieve in their respective fields to be known in the world and how many simply get lost in oblivion and move on to something clichéd to earn a living, just because they tried to live their dreams and got no one to acknowledge them.Citing an trivial example, even here on Goodreads, I have come across some brilliant reviews lying somewhere on 10th page or 67th, with 0 likes or comments rendered unheeded due to lack of some other skills may be.
Look, why don't I help you.Help me?Yes. Let's start with whether you liked the book or not.
I think it's the way Bolano ---- Bolano?The author of this book.
The way Bolano writes, you'd swear you were right there with them all, hanging out, contributing to these cryptically named, self-published magazines, rubbing shoulders, the whole thing.Sounds like the indie rock scene.That's what I thought, too!So what else happens?Well, the two ringleaders of this group of visceral realists --And who are they?That would be Ulises Lima and Arturo Belano.Bolano?
Heh, kinda like your own little visceral realist movement, eh?Ha. That would be COOL!
Twenty years the description says, forgetting what happens to those college age dreams of reading and writing in twenty years, omitting any mention of a generation coming to terms with the fact that the love for an ideal doesn't pay.
That list of characters in the description tells you nothing of how Bolaño writes them, mythologizing himself as only human in order to give voice with respectful dignity to everyone else.
Wannabe written word devotee that I am, on the cusp of transition with all the requisite baggage, that marrow is Bolaño.
Then what made this friendship between two poets Arturo Belano and Ulises Lima more touching was the fact that this was based on real-life friendship between Roberto Bolano (as Arturo Belano) and his friend Mario Santiago (as Ulises Lima).This book is very popular among my foreigner friends here in Goodreads.
Bolano was also one of those writers who are not afraid to write long novels.
He said that "the longer the writer's book is, the higher is the chance that inconsistencies can come out." However, he was not afraid to expose himself, precisely because there was no inconsistency in both long novels of him that I've read.
Then because of this The Savage Detectives, I will buy his other book: By Night in Chile.
I have a good feeling about this, based on the first few pages.
Feels like Murakami meets Kerouac.
************300 pages later, and nothing has happened yet, so I'm having second thoughts about my first impression.
This seems to be one of the very least experimental books you could imagine, unless typing is considered somehow innovative (cf.
I can fairly safely say that this is one of the very worst books I've ever read, which is all the more disappointing considering how excited I was about reading it in the first place.
Nothing continued to happen for another 300 pages, until we ended up literally staring at an empty box.
Because it seems almost impossible to organize ideas for this review, in ode to the author I will present it as so:March 1- : See "Savage Detectives" & "2666" (in Spanish) at Wal-Mart (Yarbrough, El Paso, TX).
told me to do so, I pick "Detectives salvajes."March 1- : At about page 150 (out of 609), I realize that before even though everything read like a very fresh, super-sublime Bret Easton Ellis creature of teenage doomdom, the novel soon cracks open and the range of possibilities seems infinite.
The writer has you where he wants you.March 26: Reading accounts of more than 40 characters should bring on a headache but it doesn't.
I see no pitiful deniers, squeaking their dissenting humbuggery about the overrated and overhyped nature of the prose and so on and boo-hoo, swallowed up in box after box of Bolaño devotees on their knees licking the long-dead man’s Chilean loafers as though hoping to absorb some essence of the punchdrunk poet’s furious pace, first-person range and painful aversion to paragraph breaks.
The filling: an nth number of first-person interview-style intersecting stories about the short-lived Mexican experimental poetry movement visceral realism.
A Mexican Thousand and One Nights of tales, yarns, confessions, digressions, hoodwinks, self-reference, neverending stories and long blog-like rambles.
A personally insulting deficit of paragraph breaks.
We get a sense for the ether of the times through all these minor vignettes; instead of pursuing any major plot (although the large middle section is couched in the journal of Juan García Madero), we are given a multitude of voices to develop the story of Ulises Lima, Arturo Belano and their poetry movement, Visceral Realism.
We do this in the same fashion that one would create an abstract notion of a “movement” from the diffuse and complicated set of individual actions and motivations that make up a movement like visceral realism.The book has humble beginnings with its first narrator, Juan García Madero.
I will consider this as read since the 300 pages or so that I read felt like 3 books.
I do not have much time to read/day and I prefer to read something I enjoy.
The first part was, strangely, both very gripping and incredibly boring.
I wanted to read something else but ended up reading Savage Detectives but while reading it I was bored.
Now, it just feels boring.
I understand the book's merits, I admired the structure ideea and some of the message but it is not for me.
I do not know why but I really wanted to like this book.
There were a lot of names to keep track of, which always gives me trouble (my fault, not Bolaño's, of course), and I may as well mention that I was chewing through this book for an awfully long time, so that also makes it harder to keep a somewhat ragged storyline straight.
But the biggest problem with the 'oral history' angle, for me, is that you have a million people talking about our main guys, but you never hear them actually speak.
I feel such guilt when I don't like a book that I've really been primed to adore.
Kısaca bir şeyler söyleyip, bırakayım.
Benim için hala en iyi kitabı '2666' olsa da, Vahşi Hafiyeler'de Bolano'nun geçmişine dalma fırsatı yaşadığım ve kendimi onun yanında hissettiğim için farklı bir heyecan ve keyif yaşadım.
Bolano benim için en özel birkaç yazardan bir tanesi.
Haliyle her ayrıntıda, onun geçmişinden kulağıma çalınan bir şeyler bulmak; gerçekliğin çift dikiş olup hiç bollaşmamasını sağladı.
Şiir yazmayan, hayatlarını şiir gibi yaşayan Latin Amerikalı gençlerin içine bırakıyor bu kitap sizi.
Latin Amerika Edebiyatının onlarca yazarla anlatmaya çalıştığı o 'zamanları' Bolano tek bir kitabında tekmeli tokatlı aktarmış.9/10
Bolaño knew this.
Juan García Madero did not know this.
When we were 17 years old, none of us knew this either.
And if we're lucky/unlucky/smart/stupid maybe when we're 60 we won't know this then either.This book is a lingering smoke cloud, a feeling that will not go away, impending doom?, recognition?, a satire of the literary world and a homage to words.
Without poetry the world would be flat.
Life is words and words are pain and pain is beauty and beauty is a road trip in Mexico which is just like a (wet) dream.And I need to read more Bolaño.
Let's pretend this is the picture on the cover:   The Savage Detectives seems like a book written entirely between the lines. The plot consists of several people talking about their encounters with the poets Arturo Belano and Ulises Lima, the two creators of the visceral realist gang. The feeling of lost time, lost friends, lost ambitions builds with each of their testimonies so that by the last page - the last sentence, "What's outside the window?" - you have the feeling of being punched in the
Perla Avilés, Calle Leonardo da Vinci, Colonia Mixcoac, Mexico City DF, May 1976 
Luis Sebastián Rosado, La Rama Dorada coffee shop, Colonia Coyoacán, Mexico City DF, April 1976 
Fabio Ernesto Logiacomo, editorial offices of the magazine La Chispa, Calle Independencia and Luis Moya, Mexico City DF, March 197 
Alberto Moore, Calle Pitágoras, Colonia Narvarte, Mexico City DF, April 1976 The elusiveness of the story is accentuated in these pictures and what's not there.
Ubi Sunt, boys, that is visceral realism too.And now, see my "abridged"  version of The Savage Detectives.♫♪I would stand in line for this.♪♫
The best plan is to break it into manageable chunks.Juan Garcia Madero, initiates with personal journal entries on his path to the mysterious visceral realist underground poetic society head by Lima and Belano, boycotted commercial poets or “sold out peasant poets”.
From what it seems like his entry into the realists clique, Madero was rather happy fucking Maria Font, Rosario and Lupe more than his poetic aspirations.
A semi-mythic vague literary antiestablishment of youthful, muddled and oversexed poets with a purist school of thought raging against Mexico’s dominant political monopoly over literature.Cesárea Tinajero,an avant-garde elusive poet whose enigmatic works and illusionary poetry mesmerized the visceral realists bequeathing a god-like status.
