https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/939758.Needle
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Clement’s later novels included females because people had pointed out to him that his novels had no females in them.
There are female characters in “Iceworld”, and also in “Needle”, but those are set on Earth (with the aliens visiting us), where a complete absence of female characters would be a bit glaring.
If it had been the point of the book, a space-mission with fewer than 40% female crew would have been a different story and, concomitantly, much longer if added to the voyage to Mesklin.If you're into SF, read on.
My second experience with Hal Clement left me feeling exactly like the first...impressed by the scientific detail and marvelous concepts and drowsy and disappointed by a story with the pulse and energy of a week-old corpse.  This one ended up really yanking my happy out because it started off so well. An alien copper (known as the Hunter) crash lands on Earth in pursuit of an alien criminal. Both Hunter and hunted are blobs of sentient protoplasm that hook up with other life forms in order to ca
The first 50 to 60 pages of the book are wonderful as Clement straps on his superior science skills and describes in intricate and credible detail the process of our blobby T.J. Hooker (no Shatner jokes please) crash landing in the ocean, joining with a passing shark and making his way to shore where he eventually melds with 15 year old Bob Kinnaird.
Overall, Hal Clement was a great science guy and had some marvelous ideas but I have not been carried away by his stories and intend to take an indefinite hiatus from his work before seeking him out again.
Three and half stars.About the plot, I only can say that it reminds me the great B movie "The Hidden". That is, alien simbionts, but this book can be considered juvenile literature (or young adult, more or less).Correctly written, with the disaapassionate prose by Hal Clement, I think the author wants more to tell a story of "facts" than a enjoyable reading. But don't misunderstand me, I enjoyed this book and someday, if I have the time, I would read the two secuels.
The potentially problematic aspects of parasitism are addressed by making the aliens ethically bound not to harm their hosts in any way (the quarry being sought is a criminal precisely because he violates this prime directive when it benefits him to do so) and further downplayed by the equanimity with which the humans who do learn of the aliens deal with the idea of having a jellyfish-like creature take up residence in one's body.
One does not read Clement for poetic language or complex emotional landscapes, but if you can admire a clearly-told tale about characters who ultimately fall back on the power of the mind as their most valuable asset, you can probably enjoy this novel.
Needle is Hal Clement's first novel first published in the May and June 1949 issues of the pulp magazine Astounding Science Fiction.The book is wonderful example of a 1950's science fiction 'juvenile' in the best tradition of Robert Heinlein. It was a fun read and I could easily go into kid mode and identify with 15 year old Bob and his adventures with an alien who crashed on earth.
One of the Best Hal Clement 'juveniles' Needle tells the story of an alien creature that can live inside a human host--benignly, and from the alien's point of view much of the time. Very good read. Interesting and sharp. Could not put down!
Hal Clement had a fifty year career in sf and was made a Science Fiction Writer of America Grand Master in 1999.Needle (1950) was his first published novel and it suffers the dubious fate of containing so many new sf elements that they have become standards of the medium over time.
Bob, the alien's host, gets on well with his new bodily resident and manages to leave school and return to the South Pacific so the hunt can proceed.If published today, Needle would be YA fiction.
Needle is the second book by Hal Clement that I’ve read recently.
Stephanie Meyer covers the psychological aspects of the invasion and subsequent coexistence much better.
But her book is written for adults.
Hal Clement wrote his book for teenage boys.
What Hal Clement does so much better than Meyer is to justify everything that he is writing with plausible science.
As in the earlier Clement book that I read, science is one of the main themes, almost a character.I truly enjoyed this book.
While I enjoyed both books, this was the better one from my perspective.
After reading Cycle of Fire I went online and bought a few more of his books, and I'm pretty impressed.
All of the sci-fi aspects with the Hunter were really great, and with a lot of scientific detail, but I feel like there was too much detail in the back story of wandering around the islands building boats, etc, and that part of it really didn't pull me in much.Also, given the nature of what was going on, you never really saw much disbelief when he told his story to family and friends, which seems a bit off.
This story has an interesting premise--two aliens, a detective and the criminal he is chasing, crash land on earth. They are a symbiotic species who need a host to survive. The story is told from the perspective of the detective and the teenage boy who willingly becomes his host. The book was published in 1950 and it shows. However, I actually enjoyed the simpleness of the story, it had a Hardy Boys feel to it that amused me.
The book, Needle, hearkens back to 1949 and I had just been discussing original ideas and where they have gone over the years; was the derivative typically superior to the original?
In reading Needle I found Hal Clements performed a far superior job of establishing the science portion of the SCI-FI than he did the Fi part but overall it was a great return to the simple stories that hooked me on reading as a boy.A great read?
But the real star of this story is the alien: Hunter is a unique character in science fiction.
This is a detective novel of the best sort: one where the reader can play along and figure out the mystery on their own if they're skilled enough, but it's by no means easy to do so.
But Hal Clement is fair with his reader, and the only background information you might require outside of what he gives you in the text is a cursory knowledge of science and humanity that any schoolchild should be able to claim.This is well worth the read, even if Clement's writing sty;e does make the characters seem a bit flat.
a human body which they could invade and control…’Blurb from the 1963 Corgi paperback editionA gelatinous alien detective in pursuit of a gelatinous alien criminal crashes in earth’s sea just off the coast of a US island.
Clement has set this tale in a near-future where bacteria have been genetically engineered to produce a clean form of crude oil.
Much of the action is set in and around the oil refinery on the island where the boy’s father works.
1980 grade A-2011 grade A-Series book B1aka From Outerspace
I reread this favorite from my childhood and found it just as much fun as I remembered.
Rating: 9/10
An alien detective seeks a killer hiding inside a human body. And he has to perform his search while inhabiting another human.
Great book. I definitely recommend this, even though the ending is a bit cheesy.
This had a potentially interesting concept, but it got bogged down with unlikely reactions from human characters that were not quite believable.
If I woke up one day and found out a symbiotic blob of jelly had taken up residence inside my body, I'd freak out a lot more than the young protagonist did.
I'll remember this more for the the wild eyed fellow commuter on the train with a tattered copy of Whitley Strieber's "Communion" who saw this book in my hand and asked me if it was real.
Surprisingly less entertaining than the first book in the Animorph series.
I'm not going to recommend Animorphs to anyone.
But if I understand it right.
The bulk of this stories plot was original enough that it became one of those books people recommended to me for being "one of the first like it".
I basically like anything Hal Clement writes is good.
In part because he is so focused on detailed science, or, science first, that you always feel like you've learned something.
However this story is relatively dry on motivation and while not tedious it was almost boring in places.
Not bad. Not the best book I've read either. All in all, I consider it a good book.
A classic-era sci-fi, for SciFi Bookclub.
I really liked the first bit, when it was just about the cool alien, who is kind of jelly-fish like and needs a host in order to be able to survive.
He crash-lands on earth, when chasing a baddie jellyfish, and needs to find a new host.
Unfortunately this new host turns out to be a teenage boy.
I liked the bit where the jellyfish was trying to initiate communication with his new host.
Also, was the bad jellyfish really that bad?
Now that my literary nerd moment is over (but still slightly related), reading about how Hunter acclimates to Earth and reading about how an outsider interacts with what we see as mundane and obvious is entertaining.
In fact, a lot of the interactions between people, especially those involving Hunter read unnaturally.
That's how it is going to play out?However, for all its mediocrity, it does contain some quaint charm, which is a little bit on display at the end.
Started great...devolved in slow, early sci-fi style.
I haven't really read all that much of the older science fiction for many years now but have wanted to get back into it and thought this the perfect opportunity.So this book was my first to read out of that whole collection from my brother.
A protoplasmic alien creature has crash landed on earth while chasing another of the same species who has committed some sort of crime.
This was just the sort of hard science I was looking for.
It starts great, but I felt like the story, and Clement's writing style very quickly got bogged down in details.
His writing is very logical - as if by introducing excruciatingly precise, logical descriptions of character actions and motivations, it would add to the credibility of the premise and story - which it did, a little, but after awhile it got very tiresome to work through.
The exciting initial premise slows into a description-heavy story that only really picks up again near the end.
It's classified as a juvenile because it's based on a neat idea, but has no very little science behind it, despite an MD being involved in the story.
Rather than itemize the plot, I'll just give some observations:- Would the Hunter have had a more interesting time in a women's body?
This can't be the Hunter or Bob's POV, so it must be Clement telling us stuff that he thinks pertains to the story.
After all, you don't normally peek inside other people's heads to learn what they're thinking, right?- I thought the initial idea was clever and the ending provided a nice resolution of the conflict.
It turns out that both policeman and criminal are four-pound amoeba-type jelly creatures.
How can you not only find the fugitive but bring him to justice without any of your technology (now lost at sea)?It turns out that this amoeba-type race has evolved to be a symbiont to a larger creature.
The policeman is able to bond with a fifteen-year-old Earth boy.
Odds are, though, the humans most likely to be around the island's main beach (and thus candidates to have been chosen to host the fugitive jelly creature symbiont) are the other island teen boys, Bob Kinnaird's best friends.

Reading this oldie but goodie again after many years, what struck me most was that Clement depicted a group of 15 year old boys interested in nature, swimming, construction--everything but girls! A measure I think of how our culture has changed. This is that rare thing, a science fiction mystery.
