https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/452198.It_Does_Not_Die
I still have the same emotions that Mircea Eliade's book (Maitreyi) have brought up in me, but in a much smaller amount because Maitreyi's book brings a lot of understanding of her, the situation in general and a much appreciated understanding of Eliade and his actions, during and after 1930.These two books should be read one after the other.
Reading this book first will be, at best, a somewhat interesting experiment; but you will not understand some parts of it and you'll not enjoy it as much as possible.You can learn a few important lessons if you really pay attention and not just browse through these books.And a little spoiler, if it can really be called that: the bad guy dies...
As revealed in this novel with her side of things (and which is indeed much more plausible than his, for reasons too many to count), he made public a fictional account of their otherwise platonic connection, describing a intensely erotic liaison, causing her and her family a lot of trouble.
Fancy way to say that actually, he's embarrassed of the undeserved scandal he caused, and that he can't handle seeing an aged woman and still claim their 'special love'.
Anyway, to me, this book just confirmed things I already suspected about the jerk profile of an author who is controversial in some of his other works as well.
far more better than the first book. and I hate Mirca Eliyod, dunno why.

"ন হনযতে" মৈতরেয়ী দেবীর শুধুমাতর সাহিতয না,মিরচা এলিয়াদের চললিশ বছর আগে লেখা বই এর উততর,বই এর বিপরীতে বই।এলিয়াদ আর তার পরেম ছিল সমাজ,ধরম বহিরভূত, উভয়ে এক বিমূরত জিনিসকে বরণনা করেছে ভিনন আংগিকের লেখনী দিয়ে,যার পারথকয ছিল মাতর(!) চললিশ বছর।মৈতরেয়ী দেবী যখন এলিয়াদের সাথে দেখা করেন, তার পিছন ফিরে দাঁড়ানো তাদের উপনযাস কে ইংগিত করে,যুগলবনদী অথচ বিপরীত উপনযাস।পরাকতন পরেমিক তাদের অনতরঙগ সমপরকের যে বরননা তুলে ধরেন,তাতে যারপরনাই আশাহত হন মৈতরেয়ী দেবী।পলেটোনিক এক সমপরককে ভিততি করে যে সমপরক,তাই নিয়ে উততর দে
"ন হন্যতে" মৈত্রেয়ী দেবীর শুধুমাত্র সাহিত্য না,মির্চা এলিয়াদের চল্লিশ বছর আগে লেখা বই এর উত্তর,বই এর
Revenge on an old lover (Mircea Eliade) by writing a far superior book. You go, girl!
বেশ কয়েকদিন আগেই "ন হনযতে" পড়েছি, কিনতু লেখার চেয়ে না লেখা থেকে যাবে অনেক বেশী এই ভয়ে রিভিউ দেওয়াই হচছে না। আবার অমৃত আসবাদনের ভাগ দেওয়ার লোভ সংবরনও করতে পারছি না।আতমজীবনীমূলক উপনযাস "ন হনযতে"র লেখিকা মৈতরেয়ী দেবীর জনম ১৯১৪ খরীসটাবদে বরিশাল জেলায়। তাঁর শৈশব কাটে বরিশালে, তবে পিতা সুরেনদরনাথ দাশগুপতের করমকষেতরের সুবাদে তিনি কৈশরেই সপরিবারে কলকাতার ভবানীপুরে বসবাস শুরু করেন, সেই সাথে তৎকালীন কলকাতার "এলিট" বা "করিম অব কলকাতা" সমপরদায়ের সহচরয তথা সনেহধনযা হতে থাকেন করমেই।"ন হনযতে" গরনথে মৈতরেয়ী দেব
বেশ কয়েকদিন আগেই "ন হন্যতে" পড়েছি, কিন্তু লেখার চেয়ে না লেখা থেকে যাবে অনেক বেশী এই ভয়ে রিভিউ দেওয়াই
I assume it was imaginary because the lines didn't fit the characters (in my opinion).The only thing I didn't like about this book is the fact that it should be a love story, it should be about Mircea 'Euclid' (as she states a few times), yet all she talks about is herself.
(unless they never met in reality and it's all her imagination, which I think is more plausible, because, as I already said, the lines of the male character are very much the style of "Amrita's").Also, I like the fact that the Indian terms are explained at the end of the book.
This is Amitreyi's touching answer to a book written about her by a Romanian student who lived in her father's house, in India, during her teenage years and who, in his book - Bengali Nights - claimed to have had an intense and intimate relationship with her during that time.
Maitreyi finds out about the book and her alleged relationship with the Romanian student after many years, when she is a grown, educated woman.
I have read this novel in it's regional language and the way Maitreyi Devi has written it, the way she has poured down her heart into words is brilliant and truly an unforgettable story. I have not laid my eyes on it's English translation to comment about it but as reviews goes I can be affirmative that the regional version is better in expressing the writer's words.
that "love never dies"...a cried a lot...
অনযতম পরিয় ভালোবাসার কাহিনি। অকষত থাকুক ভালোবাসার পূনযসমৃতি...
অন্যতম প্রিয় ভালোবাসার কাহিনি। অক্ষত থাকুক ভালোবাসার পূন্যস্মৃতি...
"Te-am văzut cu lumina ochilor in afara mea, atunci era lumină.
Acum, când întunericul coboară, te vad înăuntrul meu." "Când timpul își va pierde orele și clipele..." Plus multe alte citate memorabile.
A fost interesant să citesc replica eroinei din Maitreyi, iubirea lor m-a fascinat poate mai mult în cartea lui Eliade, "Dragostea nu moare" nepunand atât de mult accent pe relația lor pe cat pune "Maitreyi".
Stilul de scriere al acestei cărți a fost mai frumos in aceasta carte, însă eroina care după ani și ani avea sentimente de love-hate cu Mircea nu m-a lăsat să îi dau 5 ⭐, însă i-am oferit 4,5 /5 ⭐.
I cannot say I liked it but I didn't dislike it either, although it is a tedious, lengthy book and not very well written. However, if you have read Mircea Eliade's Bengal Nights, Matreyi Devi's response four decades later is a necessary one. He was an immature dreamer who lived in fantasy world rather than reality and he used her, though I suspect, without intending to do harm. East and West, man and woman, reality and fantasy meet in the two books providing quite a good material for discussion from a 21st century perspective.
Dacă mulţi cititori au privit Dragostea nu moare drept un răspuns la cartea lui Eliade - ei bine, nu pot să nu trec dincolo de această opinie şi să văd de fapt o mărturie a unei vieţi, a unei femei din India care a avut curajul să scrie despre ceea ce a fost şi este.Recunosc!
Va trebui să ne mulţumim cu ceea ce ne oferă aceştia prin romanele lor.Este extrem de interesantă scrierea lui Devi şi asta pentru că autoarea nu vorbeşte doar despre iubirea ei care apare ca un boboc pentru Mircea, aceasta prezintă totodată o lume pe care am putut-o cunoaşte şi din paginile romanului lui Eliade, India anilor 1930 sub dominaţie colonială britanică.
He definitely still has that aggravating insecurity and lack of self-awareness that made his book such a frustrating read, but Maitreyi shows that side of him while also showing the rest of him, telling her own story while also telling Mircea's better.But this is still Maitreyi's story, and as glad as I am that I got a better view into what seems like a more accurate Mircea, he's a sideshow to Maitreyi's poetic account of her young life.
The book gives a good peek into the lives of India's intellectual elite way back in the 1930s, which was curiously liberal and yet conservative: clearly a society still trying to adjust to Western influences while being unable to completely let go of their core conservatism.
To imagine that she remembered every detail of their time together even though she was writing this memoir many years later clearly showed her undying love.
Overall by itself the book is probably nice, but as a response to Mircea Eilade's "Bengal Nights" it is irresistible: captures the imagination and makes the telling of the story really poignant and powerful.
Înlăuntrul încăperii e beznă, dar acum ştiu tot ce se află acolo.
Mai ştiu că dragostea adevărată este ca o lumină care dă strălucire la tot ce e în jur.
Dragostea nu este un obiect, nici o podoabă de aur pe care s-o smulgi cuiva pentru a o dărui altcuiva.
Şi mai ştiu că, atunci când iubeşti pe cineva cu sinceritate, atunci tot ce e legat de această persoană îţi devine drag.""Sunt ca cineva care aşteaptă pe ţărm, cu biletul în mână, dar vaporul nu se mai arată.
দবিতীয়বার পড়লাম । পরথমবারের অনুভূতিতে এতটুকু মরচে ধরেনি এখনো, তবে এবারের ভালোলাগার রেশটা সমভবত খানিকটা হলেও বেশী, হয়ত আমার বছর দুয়েকের সঞচিত অভিজঞতা তার জনয দায়ী। কিছু বই থাকে যেগুলো কেন ভালো লাগে তা ভাষায় পরকাশ করা বেশ কঠিন, 'ন হনযতে' আমার জনয তেমনি একটা বই। কিছু লেখার সাথে কোনো কারণ ছাড়াই আতমিক টান অনুভূত হয়, 'ন হনযতে' সেরকম একটা লেখা। আফশোস একটাই, মিরচা-র লেখা বইটা পড়ে ওঠা হলনা এখনো।
দ্বিতীয়বার পড়লাম । প্রথমবারের অনুভূতিতে এতটুকু মরচে ধরেনি এখনো, তবে এবারের ভালোলাগার রেশটা সম্ভবত খানিকটা হলেও বেশী, হয়ত আমার বছর দুয়েকের সঞ্চিত অভিজ্ঞতা তার জন্য দায়ী। কিছু বই থাকে যেগুলো কেন ভালো লাগে তা ভাষায় প্রকাশ করা বেশ কঠিন, 'ন হন্যতে' আমার জন্য তেমনি একটা বই। কিছু লেখার সাথে কোনো কারণ ছাড়াই আত্মিক টান অনুভূত হয়, 'ন হন্যতে' সেরকম একটা লেখা। আফশোস একটাই, মিরচা-র লেখা বইটা পড়ে ওঠা হলনা এখনো।
This book and Bengal Nights must be read together. They are an interesting story about a colonial "love story". Mircea Eliade the "colonizer" published Bengal nights which was an account of his romantic experiences with Maitreyi Devi. Forty years later Devi read Eliade's work and published her own account of what happened.
অ-নেকদিন সময় লাগিয়ে পড়লাম। একবারে পড়তে পারলে বেশি ভালো লাগত। বইটা খুব ভালো লেগেছে বলবো না। অমৃতাকে খুবই platonicভাবে উপসথাপন করেছেন লেখিকা। হয়ত কাহিনীতে সমতা আনার জনযই, কিনতু তাও এই বযাপারটা হজম করতে পারি নি। আর বইয়ের শেষটা আমার বেশ অনেকটা ভালো লেগেছে। আমি অপেকষা করছিলাম এটার জনয। :Dএখন পরেরটা পড়ার পালা।
অ-নেকদিন সময় লাগিয়ে পড়লাম। একবারে পড়তে পারলে বেশি ভালো লাগত। বইটা খুব ভালো লেগেছে বলবো না। অমৃতাকে খুবই platonicভাবে উপস্থাপন করেছেন লেখিকা। হয়ত কাহিনীতে সমতা আনার জন্যই, কিন্তু তাও এই ব্যাপারটা হজম করতে পারি নি। আর বইয়ের শেষটা আমার বেশ অনেকটা ভালো লেগেছে। আমি অপেক্ষা করছিলাম এটার জন্য। :Dএখন পরেরটা পড়ার পালা।
Poetry. How does one read and comment on poetry, when, at least for me, it is first and foremost an emotional experience. I feel a connection to immortality and timelessness and love. But I don't have a thought out response to the reading besides an impression of her emotions, and my reaction to them.
Mircea Eliade, a respected Romanian expert on science and religion, went to India at a young age to study. There, he fell in love with the daughter of his teacher/master. What followed was scandal and a life-long separation. Mircea wrote a very transparent novel called "Bengal Nights". 40 years later, the girl finally read it, and wrote a book in answer to his. Gorgeous story.
This response to Eliade's "Bengal Nights" is a must read for the scholar's fans - and a very interesting read for anyone interested in autobiographical work. Who knew the lack of scandal could be even more scandalous than scandal?
liked it a lot for the honest and delicate expression of a mature teenage love
Somewhat difficult to read because of the absence of editing, but a thoughtful and at times poetic must-read response to Bengal Nights.
খুবই অসাধারণ বই। ন হনযতে বইটিতে লা নযুই বেঙগলী'র মিথযাচারণ দেখানো হয়েছে। যাই হোক বই দুইটি রোমানটিক ও টরাজেডী genre হিসেবে অনেকদিন মনে দাগ কেটে রাখবে।
খুবই অসাধারণ বই। ন হন্যতে বইটিতে লা ন্যুই বেঙ্গলী'র মিথ্যাচারণ দেখানো হয়েছে। যাই হোক বই দুইটি রোমান্টিক ও ট্রাজেডী genre হিসেবে অনেকদিন মনে দাগ কেটে রাখবে।
I am so touched by the depth of this book.
This book is supposedly written under the shade of the writer's own life, Maitreyee Devi.
The central character Amrita searches for her unfathomable love and explores the immortality of love through her own soul.
She realizes, only the surroundings have made her forgetful about her true love and she makes it up by mingling with Mircea.
Amrita's soul is alive and will be the light to re-ignite the extinguished flame of the encompassing love.
And as the title suggests, true love never dies.

The Bengali version ("Na Hanyate") that I had read, is palpable and a very honest account of intense young love.
In her account, Maitreyi Devi was intrepid and set an example as a confident author doing justice to not just literature but to herself by catharsis.
It's remarkable that it had left such strong imprints on the protagonists in real life (Mircea Eliade and Maitreyi Devi) that they penned it down independently in profuse detail after decades of detachment.
Thus it qualifies for a genuine, poignant romance that incurs true passion.
A story about one's life that is worth telling, indeed.
