https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/156813.Mystery_Ranch
He immediately goes to Jessie and Violet with this distressing news, but they don’t know what to do, presumably because they’re girls and this is a man’s problem, so they shout for Henry, who girds his loins and leads the troops down to barge through the second slammed door.Grandfather doesn’t want to talk about it, but are the Alden children going to let someone’s privacy or personal wishes stand in their way?
That’s right, this land that Aunt Jane just signed over to the kids, is worth millions of dollars!
The Boxcar Children is one of the first books I remember reading all by my self as a child in the 80's.
Because of that, I decided to re-read at least a few Boxcar Children books.
I recommend The Boxcar Children to any child who has not become too jaded by 1st or 2nd grade or anyone that wants a good old-fashioned read.
If you see that as a problem, perhaps you should talk with your children about what they are reading and explain that some things have changed, but that good manners and helpfulness are always appreciated.
She's just a disembodied voice.With trains, telegrams, timetables and them taking a buggy out of town, I'm left wondering what in the world time frame this is set in.The mystery of their crotchety great aunt is immediately expelled when she thinks 'she couldn't help liking that friendly voice saying "Aunt Jane." No one had talked so kindly to her in years.' Being that this book is apparently going to switch perspectives at random, it's going to take the mystery right out of people.Also, apparently, she's just mean because people have been mean to her,& really just wants some company.Maggie says Aunt Jane has nothing to live for, and that's why she won't get out of bed or eat.
Really? Uranium?The title of this book should be changed to Aunt Jane's Mystery Illness, because she obviously has radiation poisoning.What a lovely uranium fireplace you have, Aunt Jane. The light really accentuates the third arm growing out of your head!
Boxcar children? More like rich mansion children.
Gertrude chandler Warner novel Mystery Ranch is fiction and is exciting. I liked the story because It was about them going out west to a ranch for a summer vacation. The main characters are Henry, Jessie, Violet, and Benny. At the nod of the story they finally solved the mystery and went home. I recommend this book to people who like mysteries.
It was the best

The plot in this title may not shine as bright as the others but it does still have a good "takeaway", RESPECT. Pure and simple. An old bitter lady who does nothing but disrespect her caretakers is changed through the respect given to her by the children.A rift between brother and sister that has lasted decades is repaired through respect. This is a good title to use when looking to teach young children about respecting others, even when faced with harsh words and bad attitude from people.
i will never pick up one of these books again in my life. when i was in elementary my brain almost blasted listening to my teacher read these books. Never read these books to your children! i am so serious. i promise you they will be bored out of there lives!
Yaaaawn. Form a parent perspective, this was the most boring of the Boxcar Children series yet. No suspenseful details, no mini-mystery, no tension. The kids seemed to like it, but what do they know?
It's obviously nothing that I thought about as a child but I wonder what the wealth distribution was like during this time period because reading it from a 21st century American standpoint it's kind of sickening how easy these kids have it [not that kids shouldn't have it easy, I just mean it's very uncommon today].
Also ...its uranium just not as dangerous as I thought it was or did they just not know it was dangerous at this time?
The 4th installment in The Boxcar Children series. More mystery as the family connections grow for the Alden children. Their lives seem like they are plucked straight out of Mayberry themselves. Everyone is chipper, respectful, and breathtaking. It is refreshing to read such a touching series. I know I read many of these in my younger days but re-reading them has been a delight giving me such a sweet glimpse of my past. I am so glad that I am a book nerd!
The mystery journey continues! This time, Henry, Jessie, Violet, and Benny visit a ranch to take care of their aunt. But, not everything on the ranch is as it seems. Another fun-filled adventure mystery in the Boxcar Children Series that you won’t want to miss.Recommended for grades 2-4. Lexile level: 440Reviewed by Christine Hwang, Youth and School Services, Vernon Area Public Library
Actually my first time reading box car n really enjoyed it.
I loved itThis is the best book ever written in the world 🌎😊You should totally read it.I am glad I did!!! Thank you
Out of all of the boxcar children books that I have read so far, this one went the fastest. I don’t know if it was shorter or not, but it went by quickly.
Shorter than the others we've read, but the kids are enjoying them!
I think it was really good. I liked the ranch because that is where Aunt Jane lived. Aunt Jane was sick. I liked her character go from being cross to loving.
Read aloud to the kids. Good classic book.
This book seems more dated than the last two in the series did. There isn’t really a mystery in this book but it’s still a charming story.
The boxcar children travel to their aunt janes farm because she isn't feeling well. But mysteious men are trying to make her sell the ranch. Can the boxcar children crack the case?
Really enjoyed this one. Even strange Aunt Jane.
Another fun mystery for the grandsons !!!
Read this to my 5 and 3 year old boys. They enjoyed it, and I enjoyed the experience of reading it with them, even though I didn't love the book itself.
Good for young readers.
Feel-good book without a lot of substance, I felt. Had a good heart, helping others, so that's a good thing, but the cloying sweetness is getting a bit thick. The children liked it.
One of my favorites in the series
Love this classic series! Only read the first three and am slowly collecting the others.
WHY ARE THE KIDS ALWAYS SHOUTING AT EACH OTHER?? They are the most aggressive passive aggressive kids I've ever come across.
