https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2991110-the-passionate-brood
I loved My Lady of Cleves: A Novel of Henry VIII and Anne of Cleves and King's Fool: A Notorious King, His Six Wives, and the One Man Who Knew All Their Secrets.
I found Barnes' novels to have an old fashion writing style I couldn't help but love and prose that oozed with charm.
I figured if she could make the Devil's Brood sing.
I was sadly disappointed.Richard and John were reduced to one-dimensional figureheads.
The only thing keeping me reading was the fading hope that I would eventually see some of the brilliant charm I enjoyed with Barnes' Tudor era.
Richard the Lionheart is the historical figure of focus. This book holds true to the genre with jousting, taking up arms, and using women as pawns to power. This book is a well-written, and the author has done her research. Still, I had a difficult time connecting to this book. I think part of the problem was that there were a lot of key characters so it was difficult to connect with any of them.
It has loyalty, love,passion, tragedies, triumphs, betrayal, deceit, lost chances, destiny, family rivalry,guilt, friendship, being the leader of the Plantagenet's,Richard, The Lionhearted and of course the story of Robin Hood(Richard's boy hood friend) and using women as pawns in the quest for power.
It shows the rival between siblings, the resentment of John, the youngest, toward his elder brother, Richard, the death of Richard's beloved sister, Johanna, the tender difference between love and understanding and the unjust treatment of their mother, Eleanor, by their father King Henry.
Although, Mrs. Barnes has been dead for years, she has left a wonderful story of history, sibling rival, and the dynamic relationship of Henry VIII and his wives and family.
The book focuses more on Richard the Lionheart than his foster brother Robin whom this book says becomes the Robin Hood of legend.
I found the relationships, as portrayed within the book, between the various Plantagenets to be what drove the story and they were very well written.
In fact I want to find more books by Ms. Campbell Barnes as her writing style is so good.Most of us know the tale of Richard the Lionheart - at least the basics - and I have to admit that this book enlightened me to how much of a cost his passion for war put on his country.
I think for the importance that the title places on the character, there was not enough time spent on him.
While this was certainly a story of Richard and we spent a lot of time on Crusade, it was a story of these women as well.
As a reader you get the whole family feel and see the distinct personalities that emerge from these characters.As I was reading some of the events within this novel, I began connecting it with events in the Elizabeth Chadwick books, For the King's Favor and The Scarlet Lion.
In Navarre Richard meets Berengaria, King Sancho's daughter, and they instantly fall in love.
Richard tells Berengaria that they will meet again and wed, which does happen, but much later on in the story after Richard has gone to lead the fight in the Crusades.
After Robin sends the ransom to Leopold, Richard is finally released and returns to England, but he is without Berengaria.
Richard once again feels the love of home when his mother tells him all of the things Robin has done to help him while he was away from England.
The Passionate Brood by Margaret Campbell Barnes (Rated: C)ISBN 978-1-4022-4205-2Sourcebooks LandmarkPublished 2010Trade Paperback, 345 pagesReviewed by SandraThis is a historical fiction first published in 1944 and rereleased in 2010 that tells the story of the real 12th-century Plantagenet family and the folkloric Robin Hood.
Eleanor of Aquitaine and Henry II of England are the parents of a rambunctious family consisting of 3 high-tempered girls and 4 boys, who are invariably described as “tall, ruddy, and turbulent “, thus the passionate brood.
Richard eventually becomes king following the death of both his father and his older brother, the heir to the throne.
2010 has seen a plethora of novels on Eleanor of Aquitaine and her progeny and in the newly re-issued novel by Margaret Campbell Barnes, The Passionate Brood (originally published under the name Like Us, They Lived in 1944) we follow the life of Richard the Lionheart and the man we know as Robin Hood.
But before the king leaves on crusade he and Robin have a falling out and in his Angevin rage he declares Robin an outlaw, a man with no property and a price on his head.As his time as king, Richard spent more time on foreign soil than in England and in The Passionate Brood we follow him as he makes his way to the Holy Land, stopping along the way to marry Berengaria of Navarre “the English Queen who never saw England” in Cyprus.
King Phillip of France and Richards brother John(who is regent while Richard is off on his crusades) are conspiring against him The marriage of Richard and Berengaria's was a love match according to this book even though as most marriages of the time were matches made for political reasons which also allowed families to stake claims of succession on each others lands.
Joanna Plantagenet (King Richards sister) was Queen of Sicily until King William II's death at which time she was brought back to England.
Another fictional character in this story is Blondel de Cahaignes who is King Richards steward and close friend and is with Richard until his death.
It's toted on both the front and back cover of it being a story of Richard the Lionheart and the man who is Robin Hood.
But Robin 'Hood' doesn't technically appear until half way through the book and then he isn't the outlaw, that doesn't come until Richard is held captive by Leopold.
Basically the book is just about Richard and how he wasn't so Lionhearted after all.
Like I said it's about Richard and he gained his Lionhearted name way too young and then became self absorbed.
I love European history, and historical fiction is one of my favorite genres of literature, but I usually skip books about Eleanor of Aquitaine and her children.
I sometimes like reading stories about Robin Hood, but in those King Richard is usually only a background character.
I enjoyed reading about Robin Hood from an opposite point of view, after Robin is outlawed we only see him a couple more times, the story is mostly about Richard, his crusade, and the events, big and small, that made him a legend.
In other books he is portrayed as too fearless to be human, evil, smarter than he was, or not interested in women (it ticks me off so bad when people say he's homosexual 'cause he WASN'T.
Also I love Joanna's character in this book because I totally admire her and think she has never been given enough credit for her awesomeness.
Also I like that she didn't give his brother Henry the Young King a bad name and Richard was sad when he died, since I'm sure he actually was.
One of the best things about reading historical fiction is learning about people that I would've otherwise totally missed.
I did enjoy getting to know Richard the Lionheart, but I was hoping to see Robin (Robin Hood) fleshed out a bit more.
With that being said, I still feel that I can absolutely recommend this one to those die-hard historical fiction fans and especially to those who enjoy learning more about the medieval time period represented in this book.
Here's a great place to start to get some background history on King Richard.
How did the outlaw affect the Richard the Lionheart of history?This is a story about the life of Richard- his quest, his loves, and his eventual kingship.
He also finds 'love' from 3 different women: his sister Johanna, the love of his life Berengaria and Ida who worshipped the groiund he walked on.
Each love different in its own way but how does each play out in the tale...The book seems to be how the people who love him influence his decisions both on and off the battlefield; however Robin seems to be talked about more than he is actually present.
This is a tale of Richard- not Robin.
The Passionate Brood was originally published in 1944 under the name Like Us They Lived.
This is a story of Richard the Lionheart, the crusades and much more.
But it also asks the question what if Robin Hood of Legend was Richard's foster brother.The Passionate Brood was an interesting and lively story.
I was impressed with how easy this book was to read compared to other Historical Fictions.
The writing made the reading experience an enjoyable one.
I loved that the author has mixed history with folklore.
Brilliant and rich in detail.
The story plays like a movie in your head.
This is a different twist on the Infamous Family of England .
Their beginnings and their quests what might have been.
I have read many books talking about this era.
It was interesting to have a personal view of their internal doings.
My question is : Did Richard the Lion-heart really outlaw his friend Robin ,who became Robin-hood?
It seems plausible .
Perhaps I have been jaded by previous reads.
The event of the slaughter in the Crusade ,I have read accounts about .
Deplorable and really inexcusable, anyone who reads of this account might understand the middle east conflict better.
This book was a little slow going coming in: there was a lot of background information to cover to make sure that the average layman could follow the plot (most people interested in this period of history could almost skip the first 100 pages). However, once the introductions were out of the way, it moved along nicely. It's interesting...the first book about Richard I the Lion-hearted that I've read that didn't even bother to address the probability of his homosexuality. Well...good read anyway.
I read this book years ago so decided to reread it. I really like the author. She incorporates the historical research she does seamlessly into the book. I always can keep the characters distinct in my mind since she gives us such a great picture of each of them -there is no chance of mixing any of them up or wondering "who is this person again?". Her descriptions are excellent whether they are about people or landscape or a castle.
From my book review blog  Rundpinne...."The Passionate Brood by Margaret Campbell Barnes is a re-release of a brilliant work of historical fiction, which focuses on Richard I, the Plantagenets, and the legend of Robin Hood."...The full review may be read  here.
If you're into historical fiction, you'll enjoy this one. I wasn't bowled over by it, but it had it's moments. Full review: http://calicocritic.blogspot.com/2010...
I loved the way that this book started out, but then it seemed to get really slow and boring. I love all European historical fiction and though this would bean great read, as I have liked other books by Barnes, but this one wasn't my favorite.
http://amomentwithmystee.blogspot.com...
Slightly different retelling of the Richard the Lion-Heart and Robin Hood story. A worthwhile read.
If an author wants to play loose with history, fine provided they deliver a good story. Unfortunately Margaret Campbell Barnes fails to do so.
A nice fictionalized account of the adult life of Richard Plantagenet, Coeur de Lion. Delves into his family, friends, marriage, ascent to the throne of England, crusades, and finally his death.
A very fanciful take on Richard the Lionheart. Full review here, http://misfitandmom.wordpress.com/201...
4.5/5I think this is my favourite MCB book. It is very romanticised but it has definitely made me want to read the next SKP book even more!
It was a good read. I did wish it had more on Robin, but other than that I enjoyed it.
Note: Oakville Public library
I had a difficult time connecting to this book. I think part of the problem was that there were a lot of central characters so it was difficult to connect with any of them.
