https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53729.Hellstrom_s_Hive
And like most of his writing, all excellent, it is difficult to assess this work without references to his greatest work, Dune.First published in 1973, four years after Dune Messiah and three years before Children of Dune, many themes of Herbert’s Dune series can be seen in Hive, particularly a fascination with genetics and a dynamic econo-socialization.
But here is where Herbert’s genius transforms this simple metaphor into something much more interesting as he describes similarities between our police state society and a hive like insect inspired one.
Now I know that this author has other interesting novels that I have added to my list of pending readings.Hellstrom's Hive is a good classic (1973).
It is also a critique of secret agencies: those in which the left hand does not know what the right is doing (and vice versa).The main characters are the agents of an unknown secret organization, each one with their own peculiar vision of how the problem they face should be dealt with according to their interests.
And, of course, there's Mr. Hellstrom, a kind of entrepreneur with ...
a hidden agenda.As I say, a good science fiction novel, which deals with a little-treated subject in the genre.
And about this, it reminds me, have you read Stephen Baxter's Coalescent?
(another good one)
In fact, they're so concerned with controlled breeding and maintaining important genetic stocks, they do some pretty scary things...Herbert makes the storyline more nuanced by being careful to increase your sympathy for the Hive, and by carefully selecting those who encounter the Hive so you're less sympathetic to them than you would otherwise be.For example, there is room for individual merit in the Hive; exceptional persons are given "leader foods" (their nutrition science is very advanced) and given leadership positions, while remaining loyal to the Hive overall (mostly due to how they were raised); one such leader is the Hellstrom for which the book is named, who only has an individual name (not common in Hive society) because he's part of the front the group maintains to keep themselves secret from the Outside.
....Despite an ending that could have been better I enjoyed Hellstrom's Hive a lot the second time around.
Seeing where Herbert got his inspiration did significantly change my perception of the novel so I guess it was worth watching the rather poor movie after all.
I still think The Dosadi Experiment is his best non Dune novel but this one is not that far behind.
It takes the ecological awareness that can be found in many of his novels to a new level and the creepiness Herbert works into it make it stand out.
If you can forgive Herbert the ending, I think it is well worth the read.
Audiobook sounds like someone reading Wind in the Willows. Unfortunately, this is a stakeout: lacks tension.
1980 grade B+2017 grade AThis is a structurally & thematically unusual novel.
The two governments are Hellstrom's odd hidden society and a secret US government agency that I would guess is akin to the NSA.
The NSA people are the farthest from protagonists in my opinion, but Hellstrom's society becomes off-putting enough in places to make many people consider them evil.
I found their procedures very logical at an almost Vulcan level - which I like.The story starts out grade A- but ends grade A+.
It does have some long winded rumination by various characters and some repetition.
The conclusion is long and engrossing.
I listened to this book as an audio book.The concept is good but delivered in an arcane manner that is hopefully buried in the 1950's.
The book can be read as a study of that era's mindset but that is all, in my opinion.The skill of Frank Herbert as a writer is chrystal clear and the narrator does a superb job in speaking it to us.Unfortunately in this book Frank Herbert used that skill in what I guess is an attempt to gain a larger public, trying to write a regular spy thriller for the 50's with some SciFi blended in.If you are an experienced SciFi reader/listener I think you'll only be frustrated by this book since it hardly delivers any surprises, unless the concept of a hive society is new to you.
I bought this book on a lark because we have some dear friends named Hellstrom and it's written by Frank Herbert so, how bad could it be, right?
I don't see the point in hashing over the story in a review.
He advances the story well using the point of view of multiple characters which slowly brings you into "Hellstrom's Hive".
An interesting footnote is that the book was inspired by the "hoax" documentary "The Hellstroms Chronicle" which is available in a bad transfer on YouTube.
An insidious, well thought out story that is well written, creepy, properly gripping and thought provoking. Explores interesting themes such as human evolution and the concept of a Human Hive and - 'wild humans' (lol). This is one of the most underrated and excellent non-Dune Frank Herbert books and proves yet again why he was (and still is) one of the all-time sci-fi greats -- and that his brilliance was not limited to the Dune series :)
Captivating concept, but poorly executed. Still ends up being a good book, but the secret agent characters and event order detract from the insightful evolution the Hive represents.Finding this book in the library revealed to me that Herbert has a lot more books to read: I was under the mistaken impression that he only wrote the Dune series. Hopefully, the rest are better than this.
I wanted to read something by Frank Herbert and I found this going cheap so why not. For me this is a so-so book. I liked the plot idea and some of the execution is excellent, but I got a bit teed off with the titillation passages sprinkled almost randomly throughout - I suspect this book was aimed at the teen boy pulp fiction market
A brilliant piece of pulp sci fi. Sex! Violence! Ideas!
more 3.5, but rounding up because Frank is the man.Herbert nerds it up with secret government organizations, and weather underground meets 60s sex cult meets insects meets James Bond villain meets ant colony.
The green brain had insects adopting human like characteristics.
HH has humans adopting insect like characteristics.
Too fantastic to believe , given the semi-realistic nature of the story.Theres a wide cast of characters, however theres really no development - characters have a specific function they play and thats it.
But given the action/thriller type story, i guess its ok.The third act is a non stop action sequence, which i thought was rather well done.
As always when reading things which are a little older it is interesting to see through the lens of the past, I find particularly with SF as the contrast is so much clearer and it so much easier to separate the forward thinking concepts from the morality or views or mores of the day.
Hellstrom's Hive hit that sweet spot between interesting and lacking connection with life today to make it a great combination of both worlds.
A slow start but an interesting read. It seems like a blast from the past with the communist "hive" and the government "Agency." It is a very interesting commentary on the ineptitude of Agency work when everything lies in the balance. The development of an ultimate weapon and its ability to change the situation in an instant. Overall I am surprised I have not heard more about this book as it is an interesting commentary. I also like how the book ended.
Este livro aborda um culto que vive como uma mega colmeia como insetos e de uma forma paranóica e psicótica vê os insetos como os únicos sobreviventes do planeta e os humanos como o elo mais fraco. Lamentavelmente torna-se longo, aborrecido e um arrastar interminável da história entre o líder o culto Hellstrom e os agentes que vão tentando de forma infrutífera expor o culto. Uma grande seca
Un romanzo di fantascienza inquietante e che porta il lettore in una spirale di angoscia sempre più forte. Non lo consiglio se non a coloro che vogliono assaporare la paura montante negli imprevisti della vita.
Thrilling, scary, eerie, one of my favorites from Herbert!
Well written but the pace really dragged in the middle.
A chilling and brilliant exploration into what it means to be human.
I dig this book, especially Herbert's sci-fi concepts of an underground colony of humanoids intended to be a superior race that adapts insect qualities of living and communication in a hive mind mentality.
An outside group is curious and trying to infiltrate their compound to find out more of exactly what is going on, and what kind of potential secret invention the hive might be developing.
Also, for 60's sci-fi male-centric fans, there's sex (not explicit) involving one of the female/ant-people (for breeding purposes of course).
Not Dune.
I guess that makes me some sort of bastard child, seeing as I did read some of the Dune books before this.
It is not a campy one-dimensional take on an alternative social structure; it weaves a careful investigation and thoughtful consideration of the alternative society with a decently paced plot that gets the reader to the finish.The book takes time to delve into the perspectives of multiple characters, both inside and outside the Hive.
By moving between both Hive perspective and motivations, and the all-too-human pawns and powerbrokers in the secretive government agency investigating it, the book forces the reader to consider competing models of social organisation.
Aber der Geheimdienst schickt weitere Agenten - dies stellt den zentralen äußeren Konflikt des Romans dar, in Wahrheit geht es natürlich um das Gedankenexperiment wie dieser Stock funktionieren kann.Der Roman hat mir auch sprachlich sehr gut gefallen, auch der Übersetzer hat ganze Arbeit geleistet.
Wer Dystopien mag, der ist auch in diesem Buch sehr gut aufgehoben, umso mehr als es sich auch sprachlich und stilistisch in eine Reihe mit den ganz großen Werken dieses Genres einreihen darf - und da sind "1984", "Fahrenheit 451" und "Schöne neue Welt" schon beachtliche Vorgaben.
The farm is a front for a massive cult attempting to build a society modeled on an insect hive, oh and they are also building a super weapon capable of destroying the world.As a reader you naturally want to support the humans against the bug people, but Herbert goes out of his way to portray the agents in completely negative terms.
Herbert was a master of world building, as he demonstrated in his massive Dune series, and I wish he had spent more time exploring the bizarre and nightmarish world of the hive rather than all the government agent business.
Mostly, it's disappointing with the stories strictly being a product of their time.
I haven't read this particular story when I was young but even today it's an entertaining read with a functioning central idea: What would happen if mankind structured itself as an insect hive, or more generally, if individualism takes the backseat and the common welfare is placed above the interests of the individual.
Hellstrom's hive is also an early ecological pamphlet.
Herbert's scenario of a human hive is a particularly entertaining food for thought.The plot is more a thriller than an SF story.
A[n unnamed] secret government agency gets word of a powerful project that may be a weapon...
Hellstrom's hive is literally that--a human colony shaped and programmed like a hive of insects.
While they're not yet too genetically distinct from the 'wild' humans outside the colony, they appropriately don't mix well.The government agencies have a heady mix of politics and paranoia--very much a product of the cold war (though the ill-defined and never ending 'war on terror' keeps this atmosphere frighteningly current).The ending was abrupt, but pointed.
Overall this book was a great reminder of why Frank Herbert is one of my favorite authors.
I suppose the author, Frank Herbert, sees his books as a way to inspire Utopia, not unlike the main character, Hellstrom, who seeks with his entomological films to prepare the way for the coming of his people's Hive to Swarm.
In any case, after reading this I got the distinct and prickling feeling that Herbert was trying to go the way of L.Ron Hubbard and start something, or the way of C.S. Lewis and cleverly re-spin doctrine, but I should have been paying closer attention, I suppose, as the Dune series is all about Messiahs.
Images from this novel have stayed vivid in my memory for more than thirty years.
I reread it recently to see how it stood the test of time and was quite pleased.Hellstrom is the leader of a secret community which has modeled itself after insect populations.
There are three motive forces to follow (the hive, the agency leadership, and a couple of field agents who are the people I most related to in the book) that are all coming into conflict here.
When I was a teenager, reading this for the first time, I would have given it five stars, but thirty years later it is still worth four.
If you like your sci-fi pulpy and unapologetic, you'll enjoy Herbert's extrapolation from the 1971 mockumentary THE HELLSTROM CHRONICLE, which takes the main character, Dr. Nils Hellstrom, and makes him the head of an underground society patterning itself after insect behavior and plotting world domination, while also fending off discovery by a clandestine government agency attempting to find out what Hellstrom is hiding and exploit it.Word of warning: It's written as a brainy, two-fisted tale - although there are repellent aspects to The Hive, they're practically the good guys, as the Government agency and its agents are presented as self-serving assholes.
