https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/184655.Transfer_of_Power
Once the mission is accomplished, which doesn't go to plan, Harut' is to be questioned (interrogated) by Jane Hornig, who specialises in getting people to flap their gums; which he does, as he's being conveyed back to the States; and that's when Rapp learns some unsettling information just a little too late.Back in the States, Rafique Aziz, posing as Prince Kalib; a contributor - is meeting with Russ Piper of the DNC (Democratic National Committee), to set up a meeting with the President of the United States, which is Aziz's way of getting into the White House.
Action packed anti-terrorist adventure. Lots of bad-assery in the same vein as the original Die Hard. The characters are the basic character types you see in this type of story, but that is just fine with me! This was my first Vince Flynn, but it won't be my last. If you like Tom Clancy and/or Brad Thor, check this one out!
I asked that question while reading, because crazy things happen, and the scope and the stakes are off the charts.
The way the late author achieved this monstrous pacing is by involving the bit players in the action and weaving an intelligent relationship between these characters.
I was shocked to see how underused the gun-toting hero, Mitch Rapp, was.
This decision enhanced the story in a subtle way.
Rapp is not your typical thriller star with the mind of 5 oxen and the strength of Einstein.
At its heart this book has an unoriginal blueprint, but so much happens.
You must read this one.
This is my third book by Vince Flynn. It is absolutely fantastic. If you like the show 24, you'll love reading these books. Flynn writes like Tom Clancy, but without the lengthy digressions that Clancy puts in about submarines. Replace those with more action. Fantastic!
Another good action packed novel, although I had to keep gritting my teeth at all the silent gun shots. Bomb time seemed pretty convenient, too. Oh well, it was fun. Definitely a lot of tension. I'm not sure if I'll read another soon or not, though. 3 in a row might be enough.
It has a step by step, detailed look from all players involved, from the terrorists to the hostages to the heroes - and everything in between as politics, press, and multiple governments do battle for their cause.For some reason, this type of story can always hold my attention, because I can’t resist a hardened bad ass alpha who takes charge and saves the world, and Mitch Rapp epitomizes that and more.
I can’t wait to read his origin story (shout out to DoB in American Assassin!!) and I look forward to him saving the world again and again and again.
I've recently discovered Vince Flynn and his Mitch Rapp character.
This is my third Mitch Rapp novel and my conclusion is that Vince Flynn is the leader of the pack when it comes to political thrillers.
He has no close competition.I found Transfer of Power to be just as entertaining as Flynn's first two novel.
The operations of the military's special forces units and also domestic law enforcement seem extremely realistic.
I believe this is evidence that Flynn has really put time into researching the operations of these groups.The characters in this book are all interesting and realistic.
If you loved 24, you'll love this. This was written before 9/11 which I found really interesting. I'll be reading the next book very soon. This is the first book that was published and although it's marked #3, this is the best place to start.
In 1999, Flynn published his book, "Transfer of Power", in which radical Islamist terrorists take over the White House in an attempt to take the President hostage.
The ensuing firefight between the Hezbollah warriors and the Secret Service and U.S. Marines stationed in the White House rivals any of the best action scenes Clancy ever wrote, and I say that with the greatest respect for Clancy's skill at creating suspense and writing superb action scenes.Once in, Aziz takes the survivors hostage.
Mitch Rapp, CIA's top counterterrorism operative, learns that someone in their own government wants his rescue to fail.
Taking over the White House makes any novel look good but when it is coupled with great characters and Mitch Rapp, I'm all over it.
This book was written away from the real secrets in the layout of the White House and the strategic responses of our counterterrorism forces but was still a great fictional of a hostile takeover.
I've always wanted a house with secrets tunnels, hiddy holes and bunkers.
The first half is barely 3 stars, but the second half is exciting, engaging, and felt good at the end.A lot of the story is cliched characters - done too many times before and predictable.
Those parts pulled the story down - made it drag.The bad guy was evil in all ways - and then lucky when things went wrong.
The last half was best, when Mitch was making decisions and taking action.
His physical description - he won the triathlete Ironman competition.A few times the author annoyed me with too much jumping around in the middle of crisis scenes.
But once I started reading I was surprised to find a full throated jihadi terrorist attack on the White House written in 1999, before 9/11.I hope Flynn got royalties from the TV show "24".I have a few minor quibbles with the writing which flirts at times with descent into "Aw Shucks!!!" cliches.Also, Vince, as a lifelong resident of Ohio, I must point out that there is no Democrat that could fill the role of President Hayes.
And a venal, corrupt white power politician Democrat from Texas as Vice President - please!!!But if you like you like your secret agents rugged, dark and brooding, and wounded from lost love, and your hostage reporters HOT!
Some very fun and tense action scenes, but they were really bookends to 500 pages of boring governmental bureaucracy and Rapp fucking around with camera systems in the White House.
At a certain point it became obvious that Flynn was beating me over the head with the whole “bleeding-heart liberals are impotent when it comes to life and death situations and a lot of the time people are more focused on their own careers than serving the greater good.” I wasn’t offended by this stuff, nor do I disagree with some of it, but good reading it does not make.
A good 200 pages could have been cut from the novel and it would have been a lot more fun and well-paced.
This novel -- which despite being listed as the third Mitch Rapp book is actually the first that Flynn wrote (he later wrote two prequels) -- may be the perfect military thriller. I'd highly recommend this book, and the whole series, for anyone that likes or has any interest in the genre. Vince Flynn truly was a master, and he will be missed. Fuck cancer.
Rafique Aziz, a notorious Arab terrorist finds a weak point in American politics.
At the same time his group of thugs infiltrate the executive mansion, slaughtering dozens of innocent bystanders, taking numerous hostages, thus sealing off and taking control of the White House.
When an attempt to smuggle more agents in fails, Rapp must act on his own to save the President and hostages.Transfer of Power is a great introduction to the series as it lays the groundwork for the interactions between Flynn's characters and their respective roles in the government.
The very idea of terrorists taking over the White House is almost unthinkable.
”Nothing else mattered, especially not the political operative who had brought this snake into the White House.”  Better than Olympus Has Fallen and White House Down combined is the original, and politically damning, Vince Flynn version, Transfer of Power.  These books are my new obsession. It’s 3:30 in the morning and I was suppose to wake up at 4:30 - I blame you for this Flynn! Damn cowardly Hollywood for not making this version into a movie. Done well, this story could make a better movie t
”Nothing else mattered, especially not the political operative who had brought this snake into the White House.”
Better than Olympus Has Fallen and White House Down combined is the original, and politically damning, Vince Flynn version, Transfer of Power.
These books are my new obsession.
Damn cowardly Hollywood for not making this version into a movie.
Done well, this story could make a better movie than book.
Possibly because technically this was the first Mitch Rapp book.
I should have the next book in hand by Thursday and already have requests in for the one after!
It was a long time coming, but I finally forayed into the renowned (at least in my family) Mitch Rapp series by Vince Flynn.
Mitch Rapp (well, okay, the series in general and of course, author Vince Flynn) are an absolute favorite in my family.
But with the Vice President worried more about how to appeal to the American public so he can win the next election, Rapp and his cohorts take some matters into their own hands.Transfer of Power was an absolutely addicting and thrilling read.
The Mitch Rapp series just keeps getting better and better!
I found this one to be very different than American Assassin, and Kill Shot, and by the writing style I could tell that it was Flynn's first book written in the series.
The plot in Transfer of Power involves a group Arab Terrorists taking over the White House and trying to kidnap the President was has gotten to his underground bunker when they started to take over, and Rapp is sent in to neutralize the threat.
It has been a long time since I have read a political thriller. I read this book in a weekend - I couldn't put it down! Now I remember why I don't read these type of books - they take over my life. I felt like there was a lot of suspense that kept me turning the pages. There are lots of charachters to keep track of.
I'm giving this 3 stars, only because I read the book in a day, so it obviously kept my attention.
The characters were a bit vacuous and more caricatured than real, it's like the book was written by an obvious Republican who wants nothing more than to demonise Democrats as morons and narcissists.
That part was really transparent.This book is for commando fans, commando wannabes and commandos who like to read about which weapon the character is wielding, and which helicopter is being utilised - if that's you, then this is perfect masturbatory material.
If it is, then read this book.
The third book in the Mitch Rapp series; originally the first until two prequels and origin story books were written.Mitch Rapp is an unofficial CIA assassin and counter-terrorism expert.
Rapp gets bought in and goes in to sort things out, despite political wrangling and dubious dealing.A intelligent and well-written action thriller with political elements.
They are strong for their personalities and still retain that feminine feel; whereas some books strong females need to be very masculine to get along.Overall a very impressive book which gives me confidence with reading the rest of the series.
The GR librarian who marked this as #1 in the series needs to double check their work. They caused me to read another series out of sequence.Ordering #1 & #2 and prepping the coffee machine.Time to read em' again. Although it didn't resonate the same, I can't find it in me to change my rating.Apparently this is my third time through the series; still saddened we lost this author.
I struggled to get through this book, seriously why is this novel so popular? I have no idea... it's not well written, it's boring, way too long and Mitch Rapp has absolutely nothing going for him. Bland and zero depth as a character. Not recommended. Glad this one is finished, no more Mitch Rapp for me after this. Reading Lee Child in stead!
O. M. G. This book. I love it! Sure, it stretches reality a bit, but I love it. Action, suspense, and just a hint of snark. I listened to the Audible edition, and the narrator was good. He does different voices for each character. I just like the other narrator better.
I've read most of the Mitch Rapp books but somehow I missed this one. Taking place in the past (a bit) we get a good set up for where we've gone and a story that is a un-putdownable as any of the Rapp books.With a move on the President and the White House itself we have a good to great fast moving story and without a long drawn out review I can recommend this one. Enjoy.
Having listened to American Assassin, which was published 11 years later in Oct 2010, and Kill Shot which was published in 2012, I did wonder if Transfer of Power could hold up to the more mature Flynn.My conclusion: the start of the first (now, third) book in the series was a little hard to follow by audio so after finishing the audiobook, I read the first couple of chapters of the Kindle version and everything fell into its place easily.
"Transfer of Power" by Vince Flynn is an exceptionally well written, well paced action novel that is literally impossible to put down.
What comes in between is enough political intrigue and special forces action to satisfy even the most jaded of techno thriller fans.
My only criticism is that the character's that populate Flynn's book are a fairly standard lot for his type of novel.
I should note that while the characters are fairly standard I still found myself making a significant emotional connection with themIt's minor character flaws aside "Transfer of Power" is an example of the political/techno thriller at it's finest.
I just can't put these books down. This one was great. It was like the ultimate episode of 24 - if they haven't made this into a movie already they should. The politicians in these books are believably despicable, the action is intense, and you completely root for the "good guys." I couldn't wait until the copy of the next book came back to the library so I ran out and bought the next one immediately. This guy can write!
I really enjoyed this action thriller. Great "super-hero" doing incredible things!Loads of fun with just a hint of romance. Will be reading what Mitch Rapp does next in "The Third Option".Recommended for action lovers who want an Uber-Alpha in their life for a view hours!
4.5 stars. Love Vince Flynn, love Mitch Rapp...maybe I just love testosterone :)
