https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7015403-the-gifts-of-imperfection
Instead, it's a revelation book.
Instead of the "that doesn't quite resonate" vibe I often get from self-help books, Dr. Brown's perspectives ring true, and she re-labels certain attitudes and experiences in a way that's both startling and, importantly, hopeful.
She gleans her insights from her research centered on living a "wholehearted" life, which grew out of her previous (perhaps ongoing?) study of "shame." The results that Dr. Brown presents in this slim, readable book are nothing short of fascinating, and they function not as a how-to manual for quickly fixing an out-of-balance life, but as a set of powerful tools with which to cultivate a richer, more fully engaged and connected life.
I read this book after watching Brown's TED talk on vulnerability.
Upon reading this book, I believe that Brown is asserting that it is necessary to be vulnerable, but only to those who are truly part of your support network.
If we have a friend, or a small group of friends, or family who embraces our imperfections, vulnerabilities, and power, and fills us with a sense of belonging, we are incredibly lucky." She also says people with high levels of shame resilience "reach out and share their stories with people they trust." She also provides a little bit of information about her breakdown/spirtual awakening and says "During the breakdown, I needed help.
It's going to bed at night thinking, Yes, I am imperfect and vulnerable and sometimes afraid but that doesn't change the truth that I am worthy of love and belonging.Seriously, I sat there staring at that paragraph for a full ten minutes as I let it sink in.
But maybe they haven't.The Gifts of Imperfection: Let Go of Who You Think You're Supposed to Be and Embrace Who You Are by Brene Brown is a book we all need to read.
In fact, I think if we can let go of the shame by embracing our imperfections, we will actually become better faster.
Actually I had to abort the read.
I feel like this author is speaking a different language.
I have a hard time believing anybody really CARES that much about what others think about them.
This author reminds us on almost every single page about her vast research or of how "professional" she is.
The author was way too busy telling us of all her accomplishments without ever telling us what Exactly She Did. Couldn't read another page.
Please take it.A favorite Goodreads quote: “You wouldn't worry so much about what others think of you if you realized how seldom they do.” ― Eleanor Roosevelt
I wrote this on Brené's Facebook page:"Brené,I've just about finished your book "The Gifts of Imperfection" which I discovered after watching you speak on TED talks and I can honestly say that this book is helping me completely change my life.
Your book has helped me feel worthy again and that the root of my beliefs wasn't because I was completely crazy or extremely mentally ill and for this I cannot thank you enough.I've found that a lot of people who suffer from this disorder have no sense of self worth and are unable to practice self-compassion.
I really like Brene Brown--she gave a terrific and funny TED talk about her research concerning the importance of vulnerability, of imperfection, of failure, and so I read her book.
I think her thesis is superb, her research about shame and wholeheartedness really interesting, and the message of the book necessary to modern life.
There are some sparkling, clean women there with their children, and her daughter begins to dance to the music as they do in their kitchen at home, as a family.
Still, I do think the central message of Brown's book is instructive and, as I said, important.
“Yes, I am imperfect and vulnerable and sometimes afraid, but that doesn’t change the truth that I am also brave and worthy of love and belonging.” “When I let go of trying to be everything to everyone, I had much more time, attention, love, and connection for the important people in my life.”“To love someone fiercely, to believe in something with your whole heart, to celebrate a fleeting moment in time, to fully engage in a life that doesn’t come with guarantees – these are risks that involve vulnerability and often pain.
نفس الهراء والنصائح المعلبة التي تجدها في معظم كتب تنمية الذات
Listening to this book, I felt like I was being lectured to by the kind of person who concludes her cell-phone's voicemail with the word, 'namaste' -- a Hindi word that means 'I acknowledge the divine in you.' Actually, 'namaste" also signifies that its user knows an exotic Asian concept-word.
Perhaps, like me, chronic 'namaste' sayers aspire to a higher way of life that is simply beyond their ability when they are in pain, and suffering.) Learn from me, says the word 'namaste,' let me guru you.Let me guru you.
This is the kind of book that does two simultaneous, paradoxical things:One. Gifts of Imperfection offers hope.
This book is basically meaningless and worthless to me.Not due to any fault on Brown's part, but simply because I do not need or want self-help books.
That means if women want to play it totally safe, we have to be willing to stay as small, quiet, and attractive as possible.When looking for the attributes associated with masculinity, the researchers identified these as important attributes for men: emotional control, primacy of work, control over women, and pursuit of status.
That means if men want to play it safe, they need to stop feeling, start earning, and give up on meaningful connection.True.
Plus, more personal stories needed to be added to make the book feel more human.
Listening to Brene speak to you ( reading her book )....will have you at least look much more closely at your own 'stops'.
I'll write a review on "Rising Strong" once I'm done listening t the audio book...But in my opinion ..
You do not need to read "The Gifts of imperfection", in order to graduate to "Rising Strong".
I sincerely was trying to find a some value, since I was reading this book and there was one section that did standout to me:It was a section about "boundaries and compassion ".
I had to read this for work, but even without the burden of assigned reading, I would not have liked this book.
It feels slight, filled with padded stories about shame and vulnerability and the author's reaction to said shame and vulnerability.
(And sometimes the author's reaction to her reaction to the shame.
Blah blah Laugh Dance Love blah blah.The book is only about 130 pages and can be read in less than an hour, but I was still irritated about the time I spent on this.
I have not read her other works, but I say you can skip this one.
Also I think it is admirable not to eviscerate your family, but I guess it is weird to read a book so balanced about feeling insane and then is is all just flat positive about her husband and her children, who have to be annoying sometimes or she's leaving out "they are robots."Also the whole notion of "I couldn't have made it without my husband" kind of says to me "you can't make it" and also slips into "aww, someone chose you!" A, yes you could have made it.
من همیشه به کتابهایی از این دست بدبین بودهام؛ شاید به دلیل یک پیشداوری قدیمی و شاید هم به دلیل برخورد با کتابهای به اصطلاح «زرد» در حوزه روانشناسی و رشدفردی.
با وجود این، چندی پیش همسرم به من مطالعۀ این کتاب را پیشنهاد داد.
من از همان کودکی با مشکل «کمالگرایی» دست به گریبان بودهام و هنوز هم همچنان دچار این مشکل هستم و چه بسا مشکلم شدیدتر هم شده باشد.
خواندن این کتاب برای من به مثابۀ یک تلنگر دوسویه بود: از یک سو به من تلنگر زد که همۀ کتابهای این حوزه را با چوب «کتاب زرد» نرانم، و از سوی دیگر به
خواندن این کتاب برای من به مثابۀ یک تلنگر دوسویه بود: از یک سو به من تلنگر زد که همۀ کتاب‌های این حوزه را با چوب «کتاب زرد» نرانم، و از سوی دیگر به من تلنگر زد که به طور جدی در زمینه رشدفردی و به ویژه مقابله با کمال‌گرایی به مطالعه بپردازم و رفته‌رفته بکوشم با بهره‌گیری از این دسته کتاب‌ها، حداقل تا آنجا که ممکن است با مسائلی همچون کمال‌گرایی مبارزه کنم.
به هر روی این کتاب را دوست داشتم، برایم تازگی داشت و بسیار سودمند بود و مرا با فضای جدید آشنا کرد.
I have now read two books by Brown; she has pointed out some things I need to be doing for myself and I am resisting following her lead.
I am still not sure I believe her.I recommend this book to those who are looking for a way to embrace where they are; to readers of self-help books for I think this is one of the best and I would like to figure out how to recommend this to some people at work.I am going to keep thinking about this quote,"The heart of compassion is really acceptance.
It’s true, I’m a sucker for social science research: the human mind just intrigues me like there is not tomorrow; and the emotional side even more so than the rational one.
Unfortunately her book is nowhere near as exciting.
It seems more like a collection of blog posts than anything else, and near the end I started wondering what the topic of her book actually was.
She has a few really nice insights, but she gets stuck in trying to put everything into neat definitions, and the actual stories and research trends disappear in obscurity.
But if you're struggling with perfectionism, feeling worthiness, experiencing status anxiety, or having any sort of stereotypical (but necessary!) soul-searching experience and realizing some stuff about yourself and needing some confirmation about what you're feeling, I definitely think this isn't a bad choice for a read.
You're not (fill in the blank) enough yet.' 'Who do you think you are to put your ideas/beliefs/writing out in the world'?""Perfectionism is not the same thing as striving to be your best.
I stopped being a sucker for drugstore psychology, Oprah Winfrey, self help books many years ago but I fell off the wagon on this one.
Don't get me wrong, there are many wonderful points in this read but looking for solutions to life's most challenging issues in an Oprah empire endorsed and marketed self help tome is a recipe for disappointment.That being said, the idea of true authenticity buried deep beneath a pile of shame and guilt resonated with me.
Een goed en fijn boek over minder moeten van jezelf.Wat ik jammer vind is dat de dingen waar voor mij de nadruk op mogen liggen of die erg bijdroegen aan zo een situatie verbeteren, dat die vrij kort behandeld werden.
werden maar kort behandeld, terwijl mij dat juist een groot inzicht gaf.
Daar had ze wel meer aandacht van mij aan mogen besteden.De latere stukjes over zingeving en bezield leven - klinkt zo veel zweveriger dan hoe zij het in het boek behandelt!
- zijn ook goed en sterk, maar voor mij is dat meer een tweede stap, dat heeft wat langer tijd nodig dan het proces waar je een boek bij gebruikt.
Brene Brown tries to distill her research and reporting what she found are the differences between "wholehearted" people and the rest of us running-scared-dogs.
I guess I shouldn't be mad at the author - perhaps "your guide to a wholehearted life" shouldn't be construed as actual, practical, research-grounded techniques to start breaking down the walls of perfectionism and defensiveness.
Maybe it's a guidebook for those who are already living a wholehearted life, rather than a map to help the rest of us navigate our way there.
Oh yeah, did you know that the researcher who's professing a release from the addiction of vulnerability is a twelve steps addict?
Het leest niet als een typisch zelfhulpboek met praktische tips; de schrijfster deelt vooral persoonlijke verhalen en resultaten uit haar onderzoek (op een begrijpelijke/verhalende manier).
Dat boek geeft namelijk net wat meer diepgang en praktische tips over zelfcompassie, terwijl bij 'De moed van imperfectie' de focus wat breder is.
De schrijfstijl van Brené Brown's boek leest wel stukken prettiger, niet zo zweverig.
Aanrader!(1 punt aftrek omdat ze schrijft dat iedereen 'De Alchemist' moet hebben gelezen omdat het zó inspirerend is - toevallig had ik die net hiervoor gelezen en hier ben ik he-le-maal niet mee eens.)
It is quite unfortunate how much the author seems to be stuck in the write style appropriate to blogs, because this book is horribly structured.
I say this is unfortunate not just because I spent my time reading the book, but because it contains a lot of good information based on the authors research.
However, most chapters lack the depth of information to make her advice actionable.
This book comes highly recommended if you don't mind modular chapters and shallowness of information that leaves you do to your own research.
Some of the insights and research in the book more than make these 130 pages worth reading.
Worthiness doesn't have prerequisites." Some of the prerequisites she mentions are "I'll be worthy when I lose twenty pounds," "I'll be worthy if everyone thinks I'm a good parent," "I'll be worthy when I can do it all and look like I'm not even trying." Yes!
I marked my copy up and plan on coming back to my notes often to remind myself to live more Wholeheartedly.One more for the road: "Perfectionism is not the same thing as striving to be your best.
Perfectionism is, at its core, about trying to earn approval and acceptance (...) Healthy striving is self-focused--How can I improve?
Some good points, but most of the suggested solutions are pretty obvious. (Relax, play, center yourself spiritually whatever that means to you, stop striving, do something creative, blah blah blah).It really annoyed me that she capitalized Wholehearted throughout the whole book. I would not be surprised to see a whole Wholehearted(tm) product line in stores soon. Journals! Notecards! Classes!Ah well. Whatever works for you.Cute slogans and catchphrases don't work for me. They turn me off. Is it worth reading? Sure. Can't hurt.
In my opinion its more about human behavior and embracing the life you have.After watching a Brene Brown TEDtalk I purchased her most recent book, Daring Greatly.
Her authenticity or pursuit of it, is what kept my attention.A lot of authors who write self-help oriented books frustrate me with the façade of perfection.
“Come on, life isn’t THAT peaceful ALL the time!
If that’s true they aren’t human.Brene Brown makes it clear that her life is anything but perfect.
The fact that she uses the word, “bullshit” only makes me love her more.
This book isn’t so self-focused as it is outwardly focused.
I did think a lot of the advice was truly useful and important, but this information was given in small snippets amongst a large amount of other information which was less useful and not very helpful.It bothered me that throughout the book that the author kept talking about the years and years of qualitative research she had performed (the basis for all of her conclusions) and yet she does not include one single story, case study, interview, or even anecdote from all this research.
At each chapter I was hoping for more illustrative examples to help me understand the author's point.The author references a lot of other researchers and their work.
First sentence: Once you see a pattern, you can't un-see it.Favorite quote: Twinkle lights are the perfect metaphor for joy.
Joy is not a constant.
She is warm and understanding knowing we are so alike and are all going through this life wanting to make it the best we can.
She wants to help us learn how to do live a wholehearted life by sharing her personal stories and what she has learned in her research.
My next thing to do is watch her Ted talk.
She walks her talk and wants the best for herself and all of us.
My one challenge while reading it is that I wanted to simply devour it, read it all in one or two settings- something that doesn't work for a book like this that demands introspection if you're to get anything from it.
The deliberate slowing, the conscious consideration of the "Guideposts" that are included...those are the experiences that made this a meaningful read for me.I recognize that it's not a book for everyone, but for those who think they're interested it's a must-read.
A couple of general points that were interesting to consider--such as setting boundaries for yourself and holding people accountable for their behaviors.
This means we should address specific actions by the people in our lives, not attack who they are.
The other point was the difference between fitting in and belonging.
For example there are places where we don't belong and we try to fit in.
To belong somewhere, you don't have to try all the time, you are free to be who you are which is a relief and a revelation.
یکم - به نظرم تلاش کتاب را میتوان در یک جمله خلاصه کرد: «تلاش برای نگریستن به مشکلات از نظرگاهی متفاوت. به اندازهای متفاوت که اغلب جای علت و معلول عوض میگردد.»دوم- مثلا می گوید: تلاش ما برای انکار و فرار از هیجانها و احساسات منفی (هم چون غم، ترس، شرم، ناتوانی، بیسوادی، حس به اندازه کافی خوب نبودن، زیبا نبودن، محبوب نبودن و ...) منجر به سرپوش گذاشتن بر روی این هیجانها می شود. رفتن به سراغ رفتارهای اغلب اعتیاد گونه ای چون سیگار، مواد مخدر، مشروبات الکلی ، روابط جنسی و پرونوگرافی، کار زیاد، اختلال
به اندازه‌ای متفاوت که اغلب جای علت و معلول عوض می‌گردد.»دوم- مثلا می گوید: تلاش ما برای انکار و فرار از هیجانها و احساسات منفی (هم چون غم، ترس، شرم، ناتوانی، بی‌سوادی، حس به اندازه کافی خوب نبودن، زیبا نبودن، محبوب نبودن و ...) منجر به سرپوش گذاشتن بر روی این هیجانها می شود.
فلذاست که معلول را چونان علت می‌نگریم و هرچه بیشتر در پی رفع‌اش برمی‌آییم کمتر مراد می‌یابیم.نکته جالب‌تر در این جا این است که زمانی که در تلاش برای فرار از این هیجان‌های منفی هستیم ، خود را از هیجانهای مثبت زندگی نیز محروم می‌کنیم .
