https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11359.Tar_Baby
It turns out that like with most Toni Morrison books, it's impossible to summarize everything; there's just too much to talk about.In this novel we meet retired rich American Valerian Street living on the L'Isle des Chevaliers with his much younger wife, Margaret, two African-American servants and their niece, Jadine, who is visiting from France.
I had supportive feelings towards Jadine throughout the book because I've often been accused of not being black enough and I think that it's important for more people to note that as black women our upbringings are diverse, as are our temperaments, personalities, interests and everything else.
Toni Morrison is amazing.
She is the greatest of all time (in my opinion); but really, which other author could keep me entertained and awestruck on Every single page for five consecutive books?
I should've known that Toni Morrison would write a love story like no other, unlike the usual corny cliche drivel.
Welcome Tar Baby, welcome to the club of the small number of books that I reread every year for obvious reasons (I love them times ten).
This book!
This book!
Toni Morrison, I love you.
ready: crazy dreadlocked black man is found hiding in the closet of a wealthy white couple’s carribean house.
now check it: Valerian and Margaret (a former beauty queen!) have two black servants who have a niece, Jade, who Valerian has sponsored (sent to college, paid her way through life) and has become a glamorous model.
Son and Jade fall in love and take off for new york city but Son's rejection of the rat race and Jade’s trendy lifestyle causes problems.
you mean way serious badass toni morrison.
educated against street smart.and we get some virtuoso moments because, yeah, toni morrison's writing it.
The opening of this book was a complete surprise to me as a moderately seasoned TM reader – it felt just like the start of an action movie, some kind of spy thriller, only infused with poetic beauty.
Thoughts, emotions collide with more force, shove each other further apart, making space, lowering density so that I float into a state of euphoric agitation, an overactive susceptibility to connection.
His passion makes him cut himself off at the root from self-knowledge and the nourishment of love.The white woman character, Margaret, was somewhat neglected as a child because her family assumed that having beauty she would not need character.
It is difficult to explain the force that permeates Toni Morrison's books.
I felt drunk on words by the end of this book.In this book's foreword Toni Morrison writes: "All narrative begins for me as listening.
When I write, I listen—for silence, inflection, rhythm, rest.
Then comes the image, the picture of the thing I have to invent to invent: the headless bride in her wedding gown; the forest clearing."I took these words to be instructive and tried to read this story this way.
It is more difficult than one would think, to listen before envisioning but what an enriching experience.
I also wonder how many of them were clueless to the meaning of the term "tar baby".
There should be no need to discuss that, it's rather obvious that, well, ALL the characters, black, white and mulatto, were tar babies.
In fact, WE ARE ALL tar babies.
And just like the characters in the book it is how we deal with what is inside us that determines how we cope with the circumstances of life on the outside.
There is a quote on from Tar Baby on this Goodreads page that begins "At some point..." I'd like to continue where it left off.
Everyone knows that Beloved is Toni Morrison's most famous work, but I would argue that Tar Baby is better.
Love, sex, race, gender, class, ethnicity, even geography...there isn't much Morrison doesn't take on in this beautiful story.
And, of course, there are always those heart-stopping passages that Morrison's writing never fails to produce.
Tar Baby is an absolute must-read, and if you have the privilege of belonging to a book club (that isn't shy of a little sex), suggest this for your next book - I guarantee you will never want to stop discussing it.
Tar Baby was the #ReadSoulLit read along selection for this year and I am truly conflicted about how I felt about this story.
Tar Baby of course explores themes of race and tensions among people of the same race through how we treat each other.
I am still not sure how I feel about Tar Baby overall, but the ending is what did me in.
Tar Baby is one that I am going to need to read several times before I can say that I understand most of what was presented, because right now I know that I don't.
Re-read this for a little litery refreshment and I just feel like Toni can do no wrong. Clunky, ridiculous ending and all, this novel is a mountain of incendiary ideas about identity: black identity, black womanhood, black manhood, cultural identity, childhood trauma, motherhood, class, sex, and on and on. But seriously, what is the ending of this novel??? Nonetheless, I live.
Pretty much any possible interaction between blacks and whites, rich and poor, man and woman, is played out in this novel - there are no real resolutions and some of the relationships are wildly overplayed, but overall this is an incredible piece of literature that I could see spending an entire semester on in college.
Valerian employs a black butler and cook, as well as a yardman and washer - all of whom are uneducated, but still separated by class more than unified by race.
The novel works through their complicated relationships - and at times tries to do a little too much.
This is my fifth Toni Morrison novel (after Beloved, Jazz, The Bluest Eye, and Paradise).
I'm on the fence about this one.
On one hand, "Tar Baby" is a meaty study for students of literature, appropriate for various levels of engagement.
On the other hand, I couldn't wait to get through it.
I have little patience for theatrics, which became a problem when the cast walked in with their inner monologue and dialogue-heavy scenes.
And Morrison's language, which is usually effortlessly powerful and nourishing, strikes me here as strained and overwritten.
Wow. I shall be needing to sleep on this book....
If I ignore Son's assault on Jadine, the conflict between their life experiences and their attempt to come to a consensus about how to live as Black person in America (which is shaped, too, by gender politics, as Son attempts to remove Jadine from a life in which she is the primary breadwinner and mover in the public sphere) takes potentially abstract conflicts and makes them concrete by putting them in a relationship.The writing is lush but straightforward-- it's been a while since I've read Morrison's other books, but this felt like an early point in the development of her prose.
Maybe I am a hopeless romantic and wished for them to make it, for their love to sustain them where ever they traveled, whether from Isle des Chevaliers, New York, Eloe to Paris.
Maybe I am misinterpreting Morrison's surreal metaphors, but I think I just much more enjoy and prefer a literal, tangible finale and conclusion.
In spite of my negative opinion of the endings, I did thoroughly enjoy Tar Baby and Song of Solomon.
I love her for that uncanny ability to evoke social consciousness from her readers by using her characters' developments, understandings, and speech.
Not a bad book, there are some things that I'm still working out and I'm waiting for the rest of the book club to come together so I can get a better handle on the story. Right now, 3 stars, but I'm giving it room to grow upon considerable reflection.
This is a solid, high three stars. I found this novel, unlike Song of Solomon and God Help the Child, to have not one clear direction and to ask important questions about too many topics. I enjoyed the writing style and the setting, but no one character really gripped me. I was also unsatisfied by the ambiguous ending. I really enjoyed this, but don't expect to remember Tar Baby as I have the other Morrisons I've read.
If you don't think Toni Morrison is the greatest just go ahead and unfriend me because I don't like you and I want to fight you.
It's a bit awkward for me to write a good review for anything Toni Morrison has written, if only because, after I read Beloved, I condemned her.
Her aunt and uncle work for a white couple, Valerian and Margaret, and when the book begins the latter four are in the Caribbean.
Valerian decides to make him comfortable in the home and Jadine reluctantly falls in love with Son.I really liked this story because of its emphasis on a few things: interpersonal relationships, race relations and feminism.
The only thing I really wish is that the romance between Son and Jadine wasn't so rushed.
Wow, I was pleasantly surprised by the depth and eloquence in this book.
The relationship between and within races and sexes and cultures is so incredibly insightful.
Toni does not hold back comments that might make the reader ouncomfortable and i found myself laughing at the reality of the characters reactions (specifically to finding Son in the closet).
I have to admit i was infuriated by the lack of closure to the book...i got to the last sentence praying that there was another chapter hiding somewhere.
I even had to reread a chapter to see if i missed something about the ending, but alas it just ends abruptly.
OK, I really tried to get into this, but finally gave up. I love the intro!
The writing was beautiful and poetic like always.
The leading character, Jadine, comes crossed as selfish and oblivious to her social surroundings and politics.
The reader is left to figure out what happens to the characters.
It kinna felt like Toni threw in the towel.
First time reading a TM novel with a whimsical romance theme.
It gave the novel a nice suspense and drama that had me turning the pages to figure out what happens to Jadine.
The characters spent most their time at home.
I think you will like the racial social construct of this novel.
He discovers that in addition to Valerian Street the wealthy old man who owns the place, his much younger trophy wife, Margaret (the former Miss Maine), and Valerian’s black cook, Ondine, and butler, Sydney, there is also a young woman living there.
Son is allowed to live in the house for a few days while Valerian tries to get papers that will let him to go back to the US.Christmas comes; Michael doesn’t show; none of the other guests show up either.
And as the book ends Son runs from the boat into the hills to join the wild horseman on this remote part of the island, whether they really exist or not.
My personal opinion on the book?
I say that because the book was altogether irrelevant and I did not understand why it was written.
There was no action whatsoever and the first few chapters of the book was meaningless.
If I could, I would change a lot about the book.
I would make the book have more action and a deeper meaning.
The book lacked a lot of things including a theme in my opinion.
If I were you, I wouldn’t pick up this novel, but hey if you like reading boring books and need something to knock you out, here is your nyquil.
The characters coloring this narrative, from the elusive Marys to the vibrant yet disturbing Jadine, weave a tale of love like I've never experienced, but have always wanted.
The story of this book belongs in a summer sands novel, but the words writhe on the page, dragging the reader into a world of pain and devastation which could essentially change the way you speak to the people who support your life.Perhaps if I had read this book in closer to one sitting, I would have been more involved in the tale.
I wouldn't read it again, but I'll definitely be picking up more of Morrison's works.
What a love story!
Out of her novels that I've read, Tar Baby is easily the most digestible.
If someone came up to me and said they wanted to start reading Morrison, and I knew they weren't strong, attentive readers, I would definitely recommend this book.It's her most modern book.
Of course if you know Morrison you know this isn't the entire story, and elements of their relationship do get more complicated.
Morrison, has a tendency to end her books in a way that can be too ambiguous and, sometimes, somewhat unsatisfying.
I would highly recommend Tar Baby, especially if you are knew to Morrison.
There are the rich white couple,Valerian and Margaret, who take their black servants for granted and except for the old retainers, Sydney and Ondine,don't even bother to learn their names,calling one "Yardman" and one "Mary" even though that isn't her name.
Sydney and Ondine are the faithful black servants who have been in service all their lives and know their place.
Their niece, Jade, thanks to Valerian and Margaret, has gottenan education and a high paying modeling job.
She has moved intothe white mans world and even has a white boyfriend in Paris.
There were a lot of themes and sub plots I didn't feel were really explained or tied together into the main story.
Well that was a little confusing as well, it starts out seeming to be about valerian and Margaret, and then completely turns into a story about the romance between Jade and Son and doesn't really revisit Valerian and Margaret or offer any resolution.
At times it's confusing because Morrison often used defferent names and titles for the same characters and I had to go back to figure out who the hell she was talking about.All that being said, her central characters are all well rounded.
Morrison's progression from The Bluest Eye (a masterpiece, for sure) to Tar Baby, written a few years later, shows her deepening ability to weave together histories and geographies through compelling characters and an amazing story.
Not only showing the relationships, through the story Morrison brings to bare the history of colonialism, rural working-class and poor vs.
urban middle class African American experiences and visions of the future, and the intersection of race, gender, and class.
The result is a complex look at African American racial and gender politics and future trajectories in the context of the late 1970s/early 1980s.
Prose as purple as an eggplant.
Lacking cohesion, theme, even plot.
A most random assortment of characters (all one dimensional and caricatures, mind you) thrown together on an island (equally one dimensional and caricatured).
No one has a clue.
It's a painful book, and doesn't say much about anything.
The prose gets tiring, unpleasant, and after a few pages, even words, it gets difficult to motive oneself to continue reading.
Overall, it makes a fantastic book, but only as a paperweight, a door-stopper, or something along those lines.
