https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6587879-horns
Joe Hill has the story-telling gift and his terrific sophomore effort catapults him onto my “authors-to-watch” list. I had some heated internal debates regarding what final rating to tag this with as I vacillated between 5, 4 and 3 stars depending on where I was in the book, eventually settling on a very strong 4. I don’t think this ratings quandary necessarily reflects uneven levels of quality in Hill’s execution. Rather, I think the back and forth resulted from the subtlety and complexity of
I was at an awe-laden FIVE STARS for pure surface enjoyment and snappy dialogue and this section ends with a big reveal regarding the murder of Ig's girlfriend (Merrin Williams).Chapter’s 11-20: CherryThis second section of the book was the slowest part of the novel and the one I enjoyed the least.
I don’t want to spoil this by saying any more but Hill shows a tremendous gift for exploring the dark in this segment.
Both Hill's writing and story-telling have improved significantly over his debut novel and I expect some truly amazing work from him in the future.
In order to enjoy this book for the disappointment it is, I suggest the following for the over 21 crowd:Take one sip every time...: Someone exclaims any one of: "No!"; "Oh my God!” “What ARE you?”A character or location from a Stephen King novel is mentioned.
His style of writing makes you question if he really is King’s son.You revisit a scene/character that has already been described ad nausea.
You start screaming, “Ok, but why does he have horns?!”*And for all you tolerant drinkers out there who haven’t had enough, I DARE you to drink every time you think a question, any question, is going to be answered...*Sidenote: If you’ve found one likeable/fleshed-out character in this book – you’ve drank too much.
He’s got a pair of horns coming out of his forehead and some surprising new abilities to go with them.I loved the early chapters of this and thought that it was going to be a book laced with dark humor about the nature of people and the hypocrisies of small towns.
But the book shifts into outright tragedy and zeroes in on Ig’s past with Merrin and how her death has destroyed his life.
Maybe Joe Hill should have written one book about the tragic aftermath of a murder and another about a guy who wakes up with horns.
After reading Horns, and just the ARC - not even the finished, shiny and perfect masterpiece - I want to hump Joe Hill's leg for writing it.
Music is something that some people live and breathe, and I feel like Joe is one of those people, and because he is, so was Ig. I also loved the devillish humor inserted throughout the story.
That was wishful thinking, but what I'm saying is that Joe Hill made me feel that way, despite knowing what I knew about the impossibility of that.
I was literally hooked within the first few chapters but then when the story started taking place in the past things moved a little bit slower and I wasn't as enthralled as I initially was.
And with this new ability, Ig finds out what his friends and family really think about him and the mystery of who really raped and killed his girlfriend slowly unfolds.Like I said, this was tough to read.
Ig was blamed for the death of his girlfriend even though there wasn't any evidence to link him to the crime.
I want to read Hill's other books though because I think he's a good writer.
He paints an accurate picture of small town life and what it's like to lose the most important person in the world to you.
I don't know if it was the case of wrong book, wrong time for me but I felt like the book didn't know what it was trying to be.
I felt like the story kept wandering away from the parts I cared about.
While I felt Ig's pain, I didn't think he was a very well developed character.
I felt it was okay but I couldn't help looking at the other unread books on my shelf and knowing I would enjoy a number of them more than this.
I need three things to make the hurt go away:and
Joe Hill writes from a dark and mysterious place. When I read this book, I was enthralled and uncomfortable at the same time. With every Hill novel I have read, the evil is unconventional and twisted. In this novel, the protagonist connects with the dark forces through mysterious horns growing out of his head . . . and it only gets stranger from there. My guess is that 9 out of 10 readers will have no idea exactly what happened, but there is a good chance that most of them will have enjoyed it (I was one of those).
I felt no connection to any of them.
In fact, all of them seemed kind of "unreal" and "untouchable".
I felt no emotion whenever something bad happened to them, either.
But that's exactly why I would have liked to learn more about them...The ending left me feeling kind of cold as well.
I simply expected more after such a long build-up.The positive thing about the book was the writing style (very easy to read, despite the gruesome topic) and the overall message the story seems to convey.
I'll start by saying that I loved both the book and the movie. Daniel Radcliffe did an amazing job at portraying Ig even if the actor looked a lot better than the book-Ignatius. Ignatius Perrish spent the night drunk and doing terrible things. He woke up the next morning with a thunderous hangover, a raging headache . . . and a pair of horns growing from his temples.At first Ig thought the horns were a hallucination, the product of a mind damaged by rage and grief. He had spent the last year in
I'll start by saying that I loved both the book and the movie.
Ignatius Perrish spent the night drunk and doing terrible things.
He had spent the last year in a lonely, private purgatory, following the death of his beloved, Merrin Williams, who was raped and murdered under inexplicable circumstances.
And unlike the movie, in the novel, we find out pretty soon who killed Merrin.
And we get to hang around with Ig as he deals with his new powers, and tries to come up with a plan to punish the real murderer.Talking about the murderer, I was surprised with him/her.
Surprisingly good. A clever premise that was executed really brilliantly. I hated the characters, each more loathsome than the next but I loved our MC Ig. But what I loved even more was the non-linear narrative style. Time jumps, POV changes, misleading narratives - all to finally wrap up so nicely in the end.
“The best way to get even with anyone is to put them in the rear-view mirror on your way to something better.”    Update: Just watched the movie I would give it a 6/10 the book is still way better  This book rapidly broke into one of the best books I have ever read. In my small reading life, I have never come across a book that has such a bizarre concept with its own unique premise and an amazing story line that just leaves you…        “I guess Satan was the first superhero [...] In his first
The side characters were fleshed out to the bone and done so well because we got to see their dark-side which made them essential to the story and I was so happy about that because most side characters are just cardboard cut outs.I went into this book with the intention of comparing father and son but I got out with a new favorite author, who can write a story like no one I have ever read.
Ig Periš postaje vrsni poznavalac "univerzalnog jezika - jezika greha"."Rogovi" je drugi Hilov roman koji sam bila u prilici da pročitam (prvi je bio "Kutija u obliku srca") i bogami Hil je poprilično napredovao, primećuje se zrelost u njegovom pisanju.
Hilu se ne može osporiti kreativnost i veliki talenat, karakterizacija likova je na veoma visokom nivou, radnja neusiljeno teče, a pored toga on u svoje romane unosi i određenu dozu zabave, pa su "Rogovi" roman koji se brzo čita, u kome nema stagnacije i koji uvlači čitaoca u čudnovati svet Iga Periša.Ocena:4.5/5
4.5 StarsWhen people saw me reading this they would ask if it was "any good." To say that this was good would be a massive understatement.
It was supremely good.
It was deliciously good.
It was piss-your-pants good.
It was leave-the-lights-on-all-night good.
Yeah, it rocked!
Hill wrote about a psychopath that was so real, so disturbing, so terrifying, that I just wanted to peel off my own skin and run as fast as I could in the opposite direction.
!! Looking forward to getting my hands on more by Hill...say, around Halloween?
Awesome.(First Reads Win)
*After second reading*VERY GOOD. watch my video review here: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8ZT4m3...*First read in Nov/Dec 2012*
I mean, I couldn't believe what I was reading but I loved it!
It has been adapted to film and TGIF because I'm watching it this weekend!My favorite quote:"You think you know someone.
But mostly you just know what you want to know."8/23/2016 Movie Review:I finished reading the book on a Friday and ended up watching the movie that same Friday.
On the one hand, my excitement to watch this film was 100%...obviously.
(view spoiler)[I thought the villain's death scene at the end would never end.
I had high expectations for this book.It completely blew those expectations out of the water!This review might end up as a bunch of disjointed thoughts, because I'm having trouble organizing exactly how I felt.
This book doesn't put a lot of faith in humanity, at least not in the beginning (I won't disclose anything about the end).
The middle isn't super action-packed, and focuses mostly on characters' flashbacks, but I loved Joe Hill's expressive writing style.
I'm so glad I finally read something by Joe Hill, and I'm even more glad that I loved it.
Me gustó bastante, es un libro de terror decente.
Sin embargo, no lo amé como creí que iba a hacerlo, quizá porque tenía mucha expectativa.
Lo considero un buen libro, entretenido, con situaciones macabras muy apropiadas para este tipo de historias, pero me pareció que hubo mucho relleno, hay cosas que sinceramente siento que sobraban.
A veces se me hacía pesado, no avanzaba más, quizá por eso me tomó tanto tiempo terminarlo.
El final me gustó, aunque no me agarró en un estado anímico estable (la verdad, me volteó un poco emocionalmente).
Pronto le haré una video-reseña más detallada en mi canal: https://www.youtube.com/coosburton ♥
Hill writes a little dryly when it comes to emotion, so to me Iggy was too distant with the way his feelings were written.
I've seen some reviewers write that this book didn't know what genre it wanted to be or what direction to go in, and they're right.
That doesn't bother me since I actually like those quirky books that combine so many genres it almost comes across mentally confused.It's not a perfect book - the other characters other than Iggy were stronger with emotional depth- but the story was intriguing.
That being said, EVEN IF it wasn't Joe Hill, I had a fantastic time reading this!Let's take the whole devil trope and turn it into a body/psychological horror novel, shall we?
:)But then the novel became something a lot deeper when we got into the flashbacks and the love story.
We get into the heads of the people who did him some serious harm thanks to a bit of touch-telepathy flashback power going on as Ig turns into a demon.
We WANT him to be the hero, tho, and that's what's really great about this.So two thumbs WAY up.
As is the usual outcome, the book went leaps and bounds beyond the movie. When Ig awakens after a heavy night of drinking to forget his lover's death, he finds himself submerged in a brand new hell. As he searches for the truth about her murder, he finds out that devils walk amongst us... and sometimes, they're the good guys.
Maybe it wasn't totally crap, but I found it a major disappointment.Let me say I liked Heart Shaped Box a lot.
This book, while not being terrible, was full of cop outs, stereotypes, (and carefully PC stereotypes at that), cliches, and even formulaic situations.I'm sorry Mr. Hill, I truly liked Heart Shaped Box and snatched this one up on the strength of that book...and while I hope you do well, I found this a major, major disappointment.The story has been synopsized by others so there's no need to go through that.
Just last month I read Heart-Shaped Box and enjoyed it tremendously, I only quickly followed it with Horns because the movie adaptation is coming out and I don’t want to be spoiled by the trailer and other publicity.In my review of Heart-Shaped Box I made a minor complaint to the effect that Hill’s prose style is not as refined as I would like it to be.
With this book I think Hill’s writing has become more refined, there are no lyrical passages to speak of but the narrative feels more emotional and there are some nice observations like:“The truth about music: that it was the third rail of life.
At first he believes he’s losing his mind but quickly discovers that they are indeed real and come with a terrifying power that compel others to spill what they’re really thinking and it’s never all hearts and flowers either.Poor Ig learns things about those closest to him that would destroy most people and soon realizes he is completely alone.
He’s been unable to find any sort of peace -- thus the drunken stupor of the previous night.
. .The book then switches off going back to the past and present and becomes a unique mystery, love story, coming of age tale that brings all the characters to vivid life.
Nothing better than a lovely strange story with well-fleshed characters and a subtle creepy atmosphere, with the theme of revenge smouldering in the background.
Those flashback were killing for the pace of the story because you mostly want to read about Ig and the effects of the horns.
I can’t give the book 5 stars because the flashbacks were really dragging and not all the symbolism was that strong ((view spoiler)[ what was the meaning of Lee’s death eye?
(hide spoiler)]), but I loved reading this book and it’s one that really deserved its 4 stars.
Horns was more of a dark fantasy with a heavy dose of black comedy rather than your regular gore filled horror story, though it did have a few gory horror moments, and I think that is probably why I enjoyed it so much.Ignatius Perrish wakes up after a heavy night of boozing to discover he has grown a pair of horns!
I actually found the start of the story a bit tough as Ig is not the easiest of characters to like and his new powers tended to draw out the worst in everyone he met.
Horns - Joe Hill Beauty, Books and BabbleAfter seeing the trailer for the movie adaptation of Horns, I naturally made the decision to read the book before watching the film, and after hearing nothing but good things about it from my brother, I couldn't wait to get stuck in.Horns follows the story of Ignatius Perrish, who is living in his very own hell where his childhood sweetheart and long-term girlfriend, Merrin, has been murdered, and despite the lack of evidence, Ig is the prime suspect, an
Beauty, Books and BabbleAfter seeing the trailer for the movie adaptation of Horns, I naturally made the decision to read the book before watching the film, and after hearing nothing but good things about it from my brother, I couldn't wait to get stuck in.Horns follows the story of Ignatius Perrish, who is living in his very own hell where his childhood sweetheart and long-term girlfriend, Merrin, has been murdered, and despite the lack of evidence, Ig is the prime suspect, and everyone in his town believes he did it.When Ig wakes up one morning with an aching head, a stinking hangover, and a fresh pair of horns on his head, he finds he has the scary, yet strangely compelling, ability to make everyone and anyone confide their deepest, darkest thoughts, and with just a touch, Ig can see the multitude of sins people in his town have committed.
Horns is one of the best books I've read in the last five years.I came to Hill via NOS4A2, which is the only book that ever truly frightened me in the way that some films can, initiating bouts of hypervigilance and night-terrors that messed with my sleep for two weeks.
Horns is a very different book, haunting and beautiful to the same extent that NOS4A2 is creepy and vicious.
Hill's prose style in Horns is also very different from NOS4A2, showing my favorite thing in a writer: an obvious effort to push creative boundaries and do something new with each manuscript.
is Horns a King-ish novel about the horrors and hypocrisies of small-town life, like Needful Things?
It takes a final turn near the end., which - while touching - looks more like a gimmicky attempt at a twist than a genuine development.Still, Horns proves that Joe Hill is a writer with many interesting ideas.
I want to start off by saying the copy of this book I read was a signed copy that was a birthday gift from a very dear friend.
I suppose I could add a shelf called re-reads, which I could immediately fill, but why gum up the works?I commented in my first review of this book that Merrin’s letter was heartbreaking.
I think Daniel Radcliff will be terrific as Ig. 2015- Don't see the movie without reading the book first.
You will NOT want to read the book if you do.
