https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/339389.The_Function_of_the_Orgasm
Let me start by typing out Reich's definition of 'orgastic potency':'Orgastic potency is the capacity to surrender to the flow of biological energy, free of any inhibition; the capacity to discharge completely the damned-up sexual excitation through involuntary, pleasurable convulsions of the body.'When I first read his definition I was pretty amused.
Immediately I thought of vital energy schools--chi and prana and whatever name you wanted to give to a flow metaphor that you want to use when you are explaining the way you think the universe works when you are high.
These fixations and psychic conflicts cause fundamental disturbances in the regulation of bioelectric energy and, in this way, become somatically anchored.
Ben ki Karen Horney, Simone de Beauvoir, Judith Butler, Malinowski, Evelyn Reed gibi yazarlardan ve külliyatı bir araya getiren Foucault'un Cinselliğin tarihini okumuş olan biri olarak, bu kitapta oldukça eksik bulduğum bazı durumlar vardı.
Ama gel gör ki, hep yokluğunu çektiğim kaçıncı baskıdan çeviri, hangi yılda yazılıp kaç kez baskı yapmış olduğu, hangi yıllarda güncellemeler içerdiğine dair bir bilgi bulabilmiş değilim.
Ataerkil başka bir kavim ile kıyaslamalarında açığa çıkardığı yönler Reich’İn de tarafımdan aklanmasını sağladı.Kitap salt boşalma ediminin aslında sinirce durumlarının ihtiyacı olan ve bunun farkında olup üzerine gidilmezse gölge tepkimeleriyle mücadele ediyor olacağımızı çok güzel özetlemiş.Kitabın genel akışı kendi ruhçözümlemeci tecrübeleriyle gittiği için gayet rahat adapte olunabilir nitelikte.
Reich does a fantastic job of giving case examples and how he treated his patients.
it doesn't mean every problem is psychosomatic; one should check for health issues first.
but he does make the point that they can exacerbate one another (health vs.
sexual issues).- i wish there was more information as to his specific methods of analyzing and what questions/prompts he used.
i'd like to apply them to myself.- some of his patients initially couldn't orgasm at all, while others could orgasm but just to get off or as a catharsis, or after being struck (as in bdsm) - without intimacy.
Some interesting ideas, including how people's inability to experience orgasm fully leads them toward fascism. Mr. Reich certainly has his heart in the right place, but I'm not sure his science is very well supported (orgone?).Only an "ok" read, as it is often tedious - it could be much condensed.
Pese a ser un estudio científico, me parece ameno y lleno de fuerza y convicción; explica muy bien cómo llegó a formular la teoría del orgasmo y de la economía sexual y cómo fue llegando a ella con la praxis.
Da cuenta también de su relación con Freud y el psicoanálisis y te haces una idea de esos años en los que Europa se vio asolada por el fascismo...
Si añadimos esa inquebrantable voluntad de buscar el bienestar de los humanos, no solo del individuo, sino de la sociedad entera y su defensa de una sexualidad natural, sin represiones...
Recomiendo acercarse sin prejuicios a su figura y su obra.
The Discovery of the Life Energy, Vol.1, by Wilhelm Reich.
Follows Reich's initial work with Freud; the discovery of the energetic connection between the psyche and soma; the role of sexuality, especially in orgasm, in establishing emotional and physical health, and the discovery of the orgone, or life energy.
Covers Reich's therapeutic method, as it evolved from the early character-analytic vegetotherapy, into orgone therapy.
A milestone set of discoveries, nearly lost to the world due to the actions of angry and irrational psychoanalysts and psychiatrists, who were (and continue to be) champions of sex-repression and psychopathological "normalcy" as "health".
I've always been fascinated by energies, auric fields etc., so wanted to read this to research Orgone energy. Fascinating book. Even though it's verbose, I couldn't put it down.
Every people must read this book...
I skimmed some of this, it was really technical. the author was a scientist not a writer so it is not very accessible.
Quite out of date in claiming that all neurotic psychological problems stem from repressed sexual urges, but definitely valuable to read as a historic volume in the study of psychology and sexology.
Eye-opening.
انتشارات نوید، آلمان، 1365دکتر رایش که به متخصص امور جنسی هم مشهور است و آثار تکان دهنده ای در این زمینه نوشته، بانی نگاهی تازه به مساله جنس ، بدن زن و مرد و بنیادهای فیزیکی و روانی مسایل جنسی ست.
اثار او بصورت گسترده ای در همه ی زبان های اروپایی مورد استفاده قرار گرفته و در اکثر انستیتوها جزو ماده های درسی بوده است.برخی از آثار دکتر ویلهم رایش حتی در کشورهای غربی هم مدت ها اجازه ی چاپ و انتشار نداشتند.
I finally finished this, after reading it on and off for a couple of years.
Reich's writing can be overly academic and dry.
The main things I took away from "The Function Of The Orgasm" are Reich's concept of 'muscular armor' and the account of his tumultuous professional relationship with Sigmund Freud.
He also goes into his discovery of an energy he referred to as the 'orgone', which is similar to earlier concepts like animal magnestism.There's plenty of information on-line about orgone, if you're interested in exploring Reich's theory.
While I don't completely believe in Reich's discovery, it certainly intrigues me.Onto "The Mass Psychology Of Fascism".
Wilhelm Reich, an Austrian psychoanalyst has written this detailed work on how he has with immensesincerity understood the function of the orgasm. Through studying sexually sick patients and with great dedication coming to new conclusion about the "sex problem". Which is definitely as disturbing today as it was at Reich's time. I recommend it to anyone interested in understanding sexuality problems and the underlying science of sex from a different point of view.
Certainly a bit outdated - all about neuroses stemming from sexual repression. He started out as Freud's student but broke w/ him when Freud said sexuality came on at a certain age (I think 4 or 5?). Reich believes sexuality is socially influenced from the time of infancy. I really like his ideas - I don't know how Freud got so popular while so few have heard of Reich.
Just read it.
Like most of Reich's books there are revisions made after the point where he started to go wrong. But when this book is good, it is "good as gold." So one point off for Bions and Orgone.
I only bought this as a Grant Morrison fanboy, and I passed it on many years ago. Can't say I remember much about it.
I found the language of this book very technical but I was fascinated and determined to stick with it. Amongst other things, I am struck by the fact that this book was written in the 1930's and the knowledge in it is so new to me.  Suggestions of how the education system stifle the life energy.....not such a new concept then and not many improvements there yet I fear!
