https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/338608.Tarzan_and_the_Foreign_Legion
I was a little surprised to stumble across a Tarzan novel with which I was completely unfamiliar.
It was published in 1947 by Burroughs himself, and is set on Sumatra during the Second World War. It just seemed a little wrong to me to have a Tarzan set away from Africa in comparatively modern times, though there's nothing wrong with the story itself.
It's a nice pulpish adventure, with more of a feminist sensitivity than was common at the time.
I enjoyed the read, though it's not traditional Tarzan.
This is one of the last books in the Tarzan series, written during World War II. Its depiction of the Japanese, is racist at best, but those were the times. What is interesting is that there is a strong feminist element to the story, which is hardly representative of the times it was written in. There is not only adventure, but a good deal of humor here as well. Despite the racist tone, and that is only directed at the enemy of the day, it is one of the better Tarzan books.
Not one of my favorites. Tarzan in World War II.
Col. John Clayton (Tarzan) has joined WWII fighting for the British and is part of an American reconnaissance mission over Jap-held Sumatra.
Corrie van der Meer’s father had been a plantation owner in Sumatra and had been too stubborn to evacuate his family in time.I’m glad that the location has changed.
As usual, Tarzan and group spend so much time searching for someone, escaping and finding, getting kidnapped, re-finding and re-chasing, over and over again that there’s not much real plot getting done.
They didn’t have a Tarzan to rescue them.For such a tough lady Sarina sure helped Corrie awfully fast.
The title is a little misleading.
I was expecting desert forts and Beau Geste types, but instead this is set in the Sumatran jungle.
A plane crash drops Tarzan and some American airmen slap bang in the middle of Japanese-occupied territory.
There is a rich seam of humour too, in the back-and-forth between the Americans, two of whom profess to be women-haters.
A cracking read with a high body count, and Tarzan being as marvellous as ever; the more he acts like an animal, the more he shows us how humans ought to carry on.
Wearying of the same old re-writes of the Janeless Tarzan books, with the same handful of re-worked generic plots, I decided to jump ahead to some of the later works.
This one came as a delightful surprise--Tarzan as a WWII hero!
I was also surprised that in spite of the title it wasn't set in N.
Africa, as I expected, but in Sumatra after Tarz...er, Col. Clayton of the RAF and some American flyboys survive a crash onto the Japanese held island and join with Sumatran citizens who had formed a jungle-resistance amidst nests of Japanese collaborators, so his group of plucky survivors dubbed themselves the foreign legion.
This book had interesting adventures, interesting characters, and a more than average amount of humor.
Fun book to reread after all these years. Tarzan and WW II in the Pacific.
I've always loved the way ERB created secondary and supporting characters in the Tarzan series.
In the case of "Tarzan and the Foreign Legion," ERB goes too far in his stereotyped portrayal of a small group of American soldiers who crash in the jungles of the East Indies during a WW2 reconnaissance mission.
Yet if one pauses to remember that derogatory terms were made popular by men on the front lines, justified in part due to their desperate ground conditions and "us vs.
ERB wrote these characters as he imagined they sounded on the front lines, and I for one appreciate that portrayal of historic wartime.
I was expecting desert and Frenchmen but what I got was a bunch of Americans, a Dutch girl, and a smattering of others, and Tarzan.
I much prefer Tarzan in Africa even if the stories get a little repetitive.This time around, Tarzan starts the book in the guise of his alter ego, Lieutenant John Clayton, Lord Greystoke.
I don't have to like it, however, and it was hard to overlook.The action is typical Tarzan with a lot of captures, escapes, and recaptures.
The men in the party wrangle back and forth and it makes for some light moments in a book that could have been very dark.
Shot down over Japanese occupied territory in the Dutch East Indies, Tarzan doffs the uniform, tailors a loincloth from his parachute and leads a group of American servicemen through adventures in the jungle which include frequent rescue missions to save a Dutch girl who is abducted in turn by the Japanese, a gang of Dutch collaborators and an orangutang.
Looking at Burrough's books chronologically (both the Tarzan series and the rest) from at least the mid twenties onwards his books get ever more derivative and lacking in inspiration, that by the end to call most of them parodies of themselves is being overly kind.
There are as ever too many unlikely escapes and coincidences, but at least there are no tribes of lost Samurai or similar and Tarzan's "foreign legion" not to mention the apeman himself have more distinctive and interesting personalities than in most of the later books.
This was written quite late in the series bur it still keeps the reader turning the pages!
The "foreign legion" referred to in the title is to the mixed nationalities of the characters who with Tarzan attempt to reach safety after a warplane crashes in enemy territory.
Of course there is lots of anti-Japanese propaganda and unfair stereotyping of enemy soldiers but one must take the Era into consideration.
"Casablanca".On the other hand there are two excellent female characters, lots of action, with Tarzan himself in good form and we even get an explanation of how he has remained in such incredible condition after all these years!
Tarzan & the Foreign Legion (#22 in the series) is the first ERB novel I've read. It was a bit jarring reading a WWII story as I always envisioned Tarzan living in the 19th century, though it references him being the recipient of an immortality elixir in an earlier installment. Surprisingly, the book does call out characters that are misogynists & racists even if the book isn't that progressive by modern standards. The real Foreign Legion doesn't appear. Most of the short book revolves around being repeatedly kidnapped & escaping so the action is anticlimactic.
The Foreign Legion isn't in this book, and even Tarzan comes across as more of a secondary character in this story. But it's fun. I find it amusing how ERB manages to downgrade his own racist diatribes against the Japanese (it's set in Sumatra during WW2) by pointing out that it's no good to hate, and he repeatedly makes it clear that the characters don't hate the Japanese (except for the girl, and she has a very good reason), but they only kill them because it's war and the Japanese happen to be the enemy.
I have read all 24 of the Tarzan books. Read dates are from the mid 1970s through 1982. I thoroughly enjoyed all of the Tarzan books. They made a great escape from high school and college. I still have all 24 books and they are at the top of my book shelf. I thought it was pretty neat to find the actual covers listed on Goodreads and there are no barcodes on the books, plus the cover price ranged from $1.50-1.95 for each book.
Tarzan and the Foreign Legion (Tarzan #22) by Edgar Rice Burroughs (Ballantine 1947) (Fiction). Fighting under his civilian name of John Clayton, Tarzan is in the RAF in World War II. He is shot down in the Dutch East Indies but uses his jungle survival skills to lead a ragtag multinational band against the occupying Japanese. My rating: 7/10, finished 1973.
One of the best of the many Tarzan tales, set in the jungles of the East Indies during World War II. Tarzan is joined by a varied cast of characters, Americans, Dutch, etc., all united against the Japanese Empire.
Sólida novela de aventuras, de guerrillas, de soldados y mujeres. Näif pero no tanto.
GREAT story and action!
This was an African Tarzan tale transported to Sumatra, and has the usual Tarzan themes. It was a bit racial for my taste.
Best Tarzan Ever. (Johnny Weismueller is the other Tarzan)
read some time in 1986
One of my favorites of the Tarzan series. Tarzan fights the Japanese in WWII!
Tarzan Book 22
