https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92717.The_Darkangel
The Darkangel, once a mortal and not quite a vampire, must have 14 brides before he can come into his full power and immortality.
But when the Darkangel comes back to claim Aeriel, she finds that he is too beautiful for her to kill.
But when she realizes that with the Darkangel’s final bride he will not only come into his full power but that he will join others of his kind to take over the world, she takes action.
'The Darkangel' is not the vampire story you might expect.
*Almost 4 stars*I first came upon this story when I was looking at books under the GRs tag 'Villains As Romantic Love Interests'.
~Get use to Ms. Pierce's particular vocabulary.~On more than one occasion, she took the common spelling of a word and twisted it around or would add a hyphen to give it new meaning.
At first I had issues with this but once I got use to it, I felt these 'words' added a richness and substance not found in other fantasies.The story started out a little slowly for me because I did not understand Aeriel's importance.
Φυσικά η ιστορία και η εξέλιξη λίγο πολύ μας φαίνεται γνωστή και χιλιοειπωμένη,αλλά τα παλιότερα βιβλία έχουν ακόμα κάτι αθώο,”παρθένο” και μυστηριακό,σα να μη σου δίνουν όσα θες και πάντα να αναζητάς το κάτι περισσότερο,σε αντίθεση με τα σύγχρονα που τα δίνουν συνήθως όλα στο πιάτο και δε σου δίνουν το χρόνο να βάλεις το μυαλό σου σε λειτουργία.Και αυτό το βιβλίο είχε στοιχεία που μπορούσαν να καλλιεργήσουν τη φαντασία σου και τη δημιουργικότητά σου και ταυτόχρονα ήταν μια αφήγηση απόλυτα σκοτεινή και νεφελώδης.
Και είναι,πραγματικά,οδυνηρό να σου κλέβει κάποιος την ψυχή και να σε θεωρεί τόσο αποκρουστικό ώστε πια να σε αποφεύγει κι ο ίδιος και να σε χρησιμοποιεί μόνο για δικούς τους σκοπούς.
It creates a certain tone, a kind of mythological or biblical tone, a flavour that works especially well with Fantasy and works very well here.Aside from the sad fact that there was at least one typo on almost every single page (surely, Little, Brown & Co, when a book has been out for more than two decades, you'd have plenty of time to fix these glaring mistakes?), it's well written, with a controlled, measured pace that only adds to that fairy-tale quality.
Quite possibly the worst book I have read, ever.
Or, rather, pseudo-read.
I read, with great torture, the first 100+ pages.
Basically, accept for appearing at the beginning and again at the end, he was a nonentity.
Aeriel was barely formed, and there is no connection with her.
There was no display of these feelings, no connection to how she felt, how, or if, she suffered.
In 3 pages I gathered that in the previous 100, Aeriel had left, got what she needed, and returned.
The ending was non-conclusional.
I totally don't get the awards this book recieved.
Accompanying her mistress on a flower-gathering expedition, Ariel is dismayed when her mistress is abducted by the terrifying Darkangel--a vampyre who is destined to only come into his full power when he acquires his fourteenth and final bride.
Soon Ariel begins to form a plan to kill the Darkangel and set the wives free.His hair was long and silver, and about his throat he wore a chain: on fourteen of the links hung little vials of lead.I remember reading that line and feeling chilled, wondering just exactly what he carried inside those little vials.
I suppose I was hoping for something more interesting than I found, the author was clearly trying to be interesting but I found it largely dull.First of all there is little to no character development.
The vampyre was the most interesting character and that is largely only because he had a variety of moods (which is saying a lot that he was the most interesting since the bastard tortured animals at one point).
*sigh* And why the hell are we supposed to buy the love Aeriel has for the vampyre?
Indeed, ten years later, it is still an enjoyable read.Surprisingly, what I most enjoyed about this book is the author's detailed and beautiful description of the landscape and creatures of Solstar, the fantasy world in which this story takes place.
Although this is a fantasy book and certain things that seem implausible could be accounted for by magic, the resolution to the conflict nevertheless seemed to be a bit too easy and convenient.
All in all, it was an inventive and memorable fantasy, and I will most certainly read the second in the trilogy soon.
I am so happy that I found this book.
I read this book at least twice growing up and it touched my heart.
It was a very good love story in a very unusual way.
It was about the power of love and sacrifice, and all that sappy stuff that I just love.
I searched for this book for many years because I didn't remember the title and it was one of the books I read from the library and habitually checked out.
This is supposed to be a vampire story, but I always thought of it as a fallen angel story.
I liked this alot! After about 2 days of reading I am amazed. I need volume 2 ASAP!5/5 Gorgeous Fantasy, Read It.
I have to wonder now if I loved this book because I read it in high school (and reread, and reread, and reread).
I was drawn in my the happy ending of the first story, but then the author takes it so much further in the second book, and then even further in the third; not your typical story.
I was always amazed by the foundations the author built in the first book that supported the last book, but didn't leave anything unfinished in the first book.
I don't think so, but I'm going to have to read it again to be sure.
A cruel, blood-drinking, soul-stealing vampyre, one of seven icari, the Darkangel steals Eoduin as his thirteenth bride, much to Aeriel’s terror and dismay.
Aeriel holds the fate of the world in her hands – to trust in the buried, locked away remains of a good soul within the Darkangel’s leaden heart, or to slay him to protect everything good and living in the world.I confess that I’ve never read anything from Meredith Ann Pierce, and had not even heard of The Darkangel until this year – but I am so very glad I did.
But no one believes her Except for a strange blind old woman who tells her the creature she saw was a vampyre and that he kidnapped Edouin to become his "wife" wich essentially means to steal her soul Ariel decides if no one will try to save Edouin its up to her to do it.Even if she is a lowly slave girl.So she goes up the mountain and waits for the vampyre to come back.He does and takes her back to his castle to be handmaiden to his "wives" other young women he has taken.
However, being stunned by the darkangel’s unearthly beauty and terrifying power, Aeriel was spellbound, not able to avenge her friend, instead she ended up being the vampyer’s maid(since the darkangel thought she wasn't pretty enough to be a bride) and forced to serve his thirteen wives, whose hearts were eaten, their souls and blood sucked out and they ended up a group of living corpses called ‘the wraiths’.In the darkangel’s castle, Aeriel befriended a duarough(little people) who might be a mage.
It's counting on the purchasers of Twilight and The Vampire Diaries and House of Night books to also show interest in this one and there's every chance they will, but I want to add a word of caution...It's not what we've come to expect from vamp literature.
Like all good fairytales it has a bit of spook in it and there's a couple of bits where it gets scary and you'll hope it turns out well but it's not 'edge of your seat' type stuff and neither is it a 'will they, won't they' romance, it's just not that kind of book.
I think part of the problem, as with this book here too, is the heroines are frequently written very one dimensional.
She's so sweet and docile that even though she's the slave of the lady that the Darkangel kidnaps and she's been treated poorly by this woman almost her whole life...
Then the heroine is taken by the Darkangel as well to become a slave for his wives.
And I really don't like heroines that come off like a doormat.
I've read other books where the heroine is a slave or in some demeaning position but they don't lie like a doormat too.
And Aeriel, a lowly village servant girl, is there to witness the kidnapping.Her mistress is taken abruptly by the Darkangel, as is Aeriel who means to kill the Darkangel (and falls under his spell instead).The Darkangel takes Aeriel to his castle, where she is to serve the thirteen souless wraiths (wives), who insist that Aeriel MUST kill the Darkangel when he takes his fourteenth and final wife, takes her soul, and present his vials of the souls to the water witch-to be made a full icarus ( a creature that sucks out souls).

Aeriel hopes to avenge her mistress by killing the vampyre, but she is kidnapped as well, to be his servant.The Darkangel's castle is dark and depressing, guarded by menacing, chained gargoyles.
The horror aspect was fulfilled through the wraiths' appearances and over-all condition, along with the vampyre's gothic castle, his unpredictable temper and grisly past times, and the dark tales Aeriel tells to the inhabitants of the castle.
I also recommend this book to fans of fantasy, horror, and adventure stories, and to adults and teens alike looking for a romance-free novel with paranormal themes.This review can also be found at http://fortheloveofbooksreviews.blogs...
Book 1 of the Dark Angel trilogy introduces us to Aeriel, a slave who ends up following her lifelong friend after she was captured by a Darkangel.
Aeriel plots to be captured as well, the Darkangel deciding to take her so as to serve his wives.
While he is undoubtedly evil, she sees something deeper within him that makes her want to save him.This is not your typical romance, and really quite a bit of the story is centered around general fantasy lore and mystery.
I love the complexity of the Darkangel as a character and I think other readers would, too.
happened to find it walking through the book aisle in Walgreens and wasn't all that sure I'd like it, but immediately fell in love with it and with Pierce's storytelling and forshadowing.
About two years later I was walking through the same store and found the second book in the trilogy, A Gathering of Gargoyles, and was downright jumping for joy.
Unfortunately, I didn't find the third book until about 10 years after I found the first.
Can't say I enjoyed the third book as much as I did the first two.
Glad to have read it and glad to have an ending to a beautiful story.
It also reminds me a bit of Lord of the Rings in the sense that some poem/saying is strewn throughout the entire novel.
One second you are engrossed in the book, and the next page it is over, finished, end of story.Usually, the amount of detail and description in this book would have bored me, but The Darkangel makes you feel like you are there, living with the characters.
The whole thing felt like a long short story, if that makes any sense.
I felt like it was a story being told from a wise elder, or a grandmother figure, and I was just along for the ride.
This is a book that sounds cliche and unappealing when you try to describe it's subject or plot. The reality of it is graceful and has the quality of a fairytale however. The sci-fi aspect (setting) is integrated with subtlety as opposed to tacked on, and the main character is neither cowering or feisty. She is a fairytale heroine. She does what must be done, treats others with care and and respect, but is secondary to the story and her destiny, more than looming larger than life. It's a surprisingly quiet story, but one with great dignity and charm.

The darkangel is a considered a mythical being, only talked about in scary stories told to young children, so when Aeriel returns to the village no one believes her tale, and some even believe that she has killed Eoduin.
Aeriel knows she could be the only one who can kill the vampyre before he takes his 14th wife, if only she can bring herself to do it.This is novel is an amazing blend of fantasy, fairy-tale and science fiction, in a very similar style and theme to the Narnia books.
I never quite figured out how Aeriel came to love him--it seemed that they spent very little actual time together, and most of that time he was busy threatening her or chasing her around trying to kill her.
There were several things I really loved about the book though--the wraithes, and the fourteen vials containing their souls that the darkangel wore around his neck, and I very much liked the parts of the story that took place in the desert, and the symbolism of the trading of hearts.
I feel like this book could have been AMAZING but, mainly because of the poor character development, it just fell a little flat for me.
Aeriel is a slave/companion of a girl named Euodin.
Eeodin doesn't take Aeriels concerns or the tales about a vampyre who kidnaps pretty girls seriously.When she's taken Aeriel is blamed and is told she'll be going back to the slave markets in a month.Seeing that no one else in the village is going to avenge her mistress she decides to kill the vampyre herself.I knew this was a book for me when the vampyre laughed in her face when she thinks she's being taken for a bride.
Alas, the reread changed my opinion quite dramatically.Let's start with the good: this is one of the oldest teen vampire novels out there, and the premise is very original.
The Darkangel is sooo beautiful and poor Aerial is sooo plain, that he'd never take her for a bride.
And Aerial starts off ugly/plain and only becomes worthy of note once she's beautiful.Beauty is also equated to being pale.
That beauty = being pale/white = being a good person?!Is this book a product of its time?
I was entranced by this story when I first read it as a kid, and it still weaves a magical spell.
(I marvel that somehow the fact that it is set on the Moon did not register to me when I first read it :) ) I recognize the story now as a variation on the story of Bluebeard, the tyrannical lord who repeatedly marries and kills his wives.
However, the moral shape of this story is quite different.
Aeriel is captured by the darkangel and must serve the wraiths that are all that remains of his 13 previous wives...
I already this book!It's been a few years, but I've totally read it. I'll check out the second book now. ^_^
