https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/551932.The_Man
I decided to read this book after learning of it when Colin Powell was thinking about running for President.
Obtaining a copy proved to be a challenge in itself (this must have been before I was internet savvy), but after searching in a number of bookstores and libraries I finally found one in The Strand.
With the book finally in my possession would it end up being worth my effort to obtain it?
Now that Barack Obama is running for President this compelling novel has fondly been brought back to mind.
Looks as if Wallace prophesied future , because a impeachment trial was held for a president 35 years later but for nearly same reasons as depicted in the book..The book is centred around a soft spoken ,well mannered Douglas Dillman who finds himself in the White House due to a series of accidents.
A short movie though, compared to the size of the book I would definitely recommend this book.
The novel is one of the finest novels I've ever read. It's about the first Afro-American who happened and/or accidentally became the president of the United States of America. Though, the novel was written almost five decades ago, its relevance is timeless. It's always true that liberty is the only thing you can not have, unless you are willing to give it to others. I hope Barack Obama read the novel.
The rascism continues today in the anti Obama media and books. There are still far too many Americans who have not left their bigotry behind them.
This book is from the 1970s. I read it the first time it was out. I just got the Readers Digest version and read it again. This book was quite well written and was not received well at all when it was released. The story is about a black man who becomes President of the US. All the people are against him and he has many problems with his presidency. It is a very good book and I hope that Obama has read it! I would recommend it so everyone.
Flash to over fifty years later, and I have re-read two of his works, The Word and The Man. I found The Word to be a painstakingly researched, very topical novel even after having been written so long ago.
The Man tells the story of an African American senator—a rarity in its time—who, because of a series of deaths and the laws of our nation, becomes President of the United States.
The Man is magnificent, and it deserves two things: to be read by modern audiences and to be filmed by a dynamic filmmaker who can give it the treatment it deserves.
This was the first book my father bought me for my sixteenth birthday.
This was the book that sparked an interest taking up law as my profession.
This is a book on the impeachment trial of the imaginary first black President of the United States of America, much before Barack Obama even thought of contesting in the elections.
It is a big book, and this is a must read for the people who want to learn the lessons in life in general.
It has been on the New York Bestselling list for a long time, so if you have time on your hands, make it worth by reading this great book by a great author.
Way, way back, before Barack Obama, there was Douglas Dillman.
An African American senator becomes president after several catastrophic events.
What will the United States do?
Takes place in the late sixties or early seventies.
Militant black activists, Southern Dixiecrats, secret pacts within the American government, even secrets within his own family attempt to influence and even remove Douglas Dillman from the white house.
Will he perservere?
Will the American people accept an African American as a leader?
The author's voice doesn't quite ring true when trying too hard to write in the patois of his imagined characters, and in fact at times seems contrived and patronizing.

It was #5 on the 1964 bestseller list and is an alternate history political novel.The time is a bit in the future for 1964, post JFK and LBJ, when an unexpected accident kills the current fictional POTUS.
The Speaker of the House died in the same accident that killed the President.
But the next in the line of succession was the slick, urbane Secretary of State who wanted the Presidency more than anything.I have read earlier bestsellers by Irving Wallace (The Chapman Report, 1960, and The Prize, 1962) and while he wrote page turners for sure, I disliked his overly wordy style and his reliance on sleazy detail.
The book was long and some of the legal snippets were more lengthy than what my attention span could hold onto, but I really enjoyed the book. Mr. Wallace was way before his time in writing such a forward thinking story.
Followed by an excellent definition presented by President`s counsel Mr Nat Abraham, the difference between four legged beast and a man standing on two limbs irrelevant of colour or race.An Original manuscript, written firmly with pen on cheap paper and signed by Negro slave: ``In a composite Nation like ours, made up of almost every variety of the human family, there should be, as before the Law, no rich, no poor, no high, no low, no black, no white, but one country, one citizenship, equal rights and common destiny for all.
It was a bit long (more than 700 pages) but if you can get past that, I think you'll really enjoy this book.
But I feel that way whenever I read books from this time period.
I also don't really like the way women are portrayed in books from the 60s, especially books written by men.
Did everybody keep tranquilizers in their medicine cabinets and wallets in the 60s for the express purpose of calming down women who got upset?
And what is so wrong with women getting upset?
Why can't women express negative emotions like men without people fussing over them?
I am not American and only had a vague idea of the race issues the country faced, and still does.
However, I have always loved reading Irving Wallace from the time when I was a teenager and was introduced to the idea of reading fiction with his 'The Word'.
It was the first 'adult novel' I ever read in my life and I was totally smitten with it.
Since then, my love affair with this author has continued.
Detailed, excellent prose and a totally intriguing topic, this is a book I will definitely be coming back to again later in life.
Interesting premise, especially considering the era it was written in, but the overall style of the book is exceptionally dated.
It reads like an Allen Drury-style Washington manners novel, with all the unrealistic and self-serving excessive dialogue and one-dimensional characters that implies.
By the time I finished, closing the book brought on a feeling of relief, not pleasure or frustration or anything else.
As a scholar who has done and continues to do some work on linkages between concepts like pop culture, politics, and race, I'd chalked this one up to "work" rather than "pleasure" reading before it was even half-way through.
What the author wrote some decades back, has come into reality in US. A black has become President. But the write was proved wrong in one way-Obama became President on his own and not by death of others above him.However, the book is superbly written and especially the impeachment scenes were like a picture before the reader's eyes.
Ironically reading this just as the first black President was elected.
Best book I ever read. I've read it four or five times and will read it again soon.
Long before Obama, there was this black President. Great read!
Very interesting read at this point in our history
Way ahead of its time. Wallace does a great job detailing the political climate in the 1960's as America is accidentally gifted a black President. Powerful
Interesting read. Its about the first African American president, but it was written years ago before anyone ever thought that it was a real possibility.
loved it!
typical wallace novel... read on a recommendation...wasn't disappointed
The story seems a bit dated now but makes some valid points such as indicated by the title itself.I have not read the story completely, though I did read a major portion to try to pick up the direction and plot and points trying to be made by the author.
it was very informative I'm glad I read it
Barack Obama in 1980s?????
OK, I have a rule not to judge an old book by today's social conventions, and I know that Wallace was trying to be enlightened and sensitive, but he made his protagonist so weak and frightened in the early parts of the book I wanted to scream.
(Apparently there was no such thing as the press in the late "60s and thus no one would cover the story and clarify her race.) The scene early in the book when some other politicos try to get him to resign because it is what the dead president would have wanted was just silly.
And it is impossible to distinguish his African American characters from his Southern racists.
He eventually gets impeached but survives and manages to make some headway in the role, albeit small steps.He also gains some confidence in himself and manages to stay on the high road when all around people expect him and want him to fail.The book is nearly 700 pages long, could have been a bit shorter, definitely a summer read.
The author paints vivid pictures of all the major protagonists, gives them appropriate roles and builds interest throughout with incursions into the lives of the various characters.An interesting read and a social commentary on the times.
Loistavaa.
Kannatti lukea uudelleen Irving Wallacen kuuluisa romaani, jonka nuoruudessa selvitin hätäisesti,isän mieliksi lähinnä velvollisuudesta.
Tyypillinen miesten kirja, outo sankari ja viholliset, muistan todenneeni.
Aiheen juonittelut, päähenkilö vastuksineen, taisteluineen Yhdysvalloissa lipuivat fantasiana pois eristyneestä maailmankuvastani.
En kyennyt samaistamaan sisältöä mihinkään, koska vertauskohdat, kokemus puuttuivat.Nyt lähtökohtani avartuu uutena.
Hämmästyttävää, että Wallacen erityisestä teoksesta The Man muotoutui 50 vuodessa itselleni vakuuttavaa todellisuutta.
Ylipäänsä teoksen sisältö näyttää väkevöityneen ja kirjallinen painoarvo on saanut mittansa.
Irving Wallace jatkaa yhä voittokulkuaan menestyskirjailijana mutta samalla ennen kaikkea tarkasti eläytyneenä visionäärinä, joka kykeni luomaan tiedettä ja tutkimusta syvemmän tulevaisuuden.
Kirjassa hänen onnistui ennakoida koko häikäilemättömäksi muuntuva maailmankuva.
