https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/137098.The_Little_Lady_Agency
I'm surprised how much I enjoyed this book, especially as I've been kind of "off" chick-lit these days.
I love how it avoided a lot of the cliches so prevalent in chick-lit (for example, the heavenly Nelson, our leading lady Melissa's flat-mate, is neither gay nor her former lover...
I found it unbelievably refreshing that Melissa is a GOOD person with the basic tribulations that we all might encounter in the course of being a good person, trying to be kind to our family, trying to have a fulfilling career, and hoping that maybe, just maybe, true love will come along.
It's atypical in that it's basically clean and talks a lot about Issues of Conscience.
Here's just one of many, many funny lines -- in talking about a fling with your administrative help: "Oh, yes, I agree," I said.
"Then when it all goes wrong -- and it always does -- you never get your photocopying done properly again because all the girls hate you, and everyone in the office knows about your intimate dermatitis."LOL -- that's just one of many chuckle-worthy parts of this book.
I must track down her next book!
The protagonist of this novel is a very sweet girl Melissa.
Like the love couple in the story.
As soon as the love story develops, she seems to lose all her IQ points but maybe that is how it is supposed to be in this kind of novels?
I did like the beginning of the novel and some parts in the middle but as soon as the love story started to unfold, I lost my interest.
The love story itself bored me immensely.
I just don't like romance novels.
If you're a fan of romance novels, by all means go for it.
There are few books that I enjoy simply reading about the day-to-day life of the characters, and this was one of them.Melissa does her best to be a good person, even though she isn't always appreciated for it, and she has to fight against her less than supportive family and her own issues of self perception to become a stronger, more confident woman.
And some of her clients are pretty great guys (especially one American who seems to unwittingly blur the lines between Melissa and Honey).There are so many layers to this story, and I loved the character arcs as much as the ins and outs of the Little Lady Agency.
- The focus on manners/good dress/etc.- A kinda stereotypical American in a British book who doesn't just get hated on - Remington Steele references <3- The wonderfully empowering use of undergarments Things I disliked: - The love triangle....square....thing.- How long this book was.
- How utterly dense Melissa is and how long it takes her to find resolution After a while, this book felt something I had to get through instead of my fluff-read for the weekend.
Definitely good for readers of Sophie Kinsella, with the added bonus of a heroine who isn't desperate to get males into her bedroom.
It's a novel of manners, plain and simple.
The whole point of the novel is that the main character must learn to love herself for who she is, and only then will she reach her full potential.
In order to learn this, she takes on an alter-ego that expresses characteristics she thinks are too bold, audacious, sexy...etc.
The author does use Melissa's introspections to dig pretty deep into relationship psychology, and sometimes you wonder if you're reading a therapy session-made-novel.
I'll probably offend the purists by saying so, but I put this in the same category of Jane Austen's lighter novels.
Hilarious and warmhearted, this "deliciously addictive" (Cosmopolitan) debut romantic comedy stars a woman who goes from doormat to diva when she sets up shop as the ultimate freelance girlfriend. Omg everyone you need to read this book. Like right now. It was funny and different and we all need to thank Hester Browne for this gem. I LOVE books that I can picture myself as the main character (and her style!!!). Plus, this business idea she planned was brillant and needed! Can this please be made into a movie!
Well this was a breath of fresh air. A delightful story that kept me entertained (and guessing!) until the last page. A few confusing moments (the father, for one) but this was one of those rare stories where the woman was competent without being bossy or 'sassy' or just plain rude and the man was kind and considerate and a gentleman!A fun read that I will definitely read again. :)
This is one of those books hoping to ride the coattails of the Bridget Jones phenomenon.
Although it seems to me that phenomenon has come and gone.
Anyway, young English woman starts her own business as a 'life organizer' for bachelors, adopts an alter ego to do so, ends up falling in love with one of her clients, etc.
I don't mind reading light and fluffy books as long as they're fun and engaging, but I really just got through this one because I don't like leaving books unread.
Also, it was one of the few books available to me while on vacation in Germany, and when I'm desperate, I'll read just about anything.
Whether it be a clothes makeover, someone to advise them on asking a girl out, posing as a girlfriend to get matchmaking mamas off their backs, or just firing the hired help, Melissa can handle anything with her no-nonsense attitude - everything except for laundry and sex that is.Only thing is, Melissa doesn't want to be recognized due to her politically prominent family and thus dons a blonde wig and an alternate personality, Honey during 'business hours'.
I don't want to spoil it here, but if you too are feeling less than pleased with how things end up, let me know cause I am more than a little miffed at her decision.
LOVED this one! It kept my mind off of both of my 4 hour cross-country flights (and I don't like flying!) I can't wait to read the rest of the series.
Fun,summer time read. Young english woman finds her calling and love.
Cute, light and fluffy and amusing.
This could've been something I was really into, but unfortunately too many of the side storylines ended up bothering me for one reason or another.(view spoiler)[- I didn't care for the Melissa/Nelson/Gabi pseudo love triangle that kept rearing its ugly head at regular intervals.
I loved Melissa and Nelson's friendship, and I wish the author could've just left it as just that: an uncomplicated male/female friendship.- Melissa's dreadful family and their various ways of walking all over her also made me uncomfortable.
And it really would've been 3 stars had it not been for the Gabi/Nelson business that popped up towards the end, which I intensely disliked.
I can't decide if I like or hate this book.
I don't like the direction this story is taking, I think I'll make a U-turn." It was like the author read that leather bound collected works of Jane Austen all at once and had starred the storylines she wanted to put in.
Nearly every reference would be well known to both sides of the ocean, despite its London setting.So, I'm thinking I'm not big on this book.
The more I think about it's structure, the more it feels thrown together from current storylines on TV.
Anyway, I guess I'll end this like the book did...
Meh! I’m not sure this book ended the way I wanted it to. Did she end up with the right guy? I may have to get the next book, I just can’t decide if I want to commit that much time to it. And what a crazy dad!! There were a couple of unresolved issues that left me scratching my head. Maybe I read the end too fast trying to get out the door to book club.
Very very entertaining! :D
Cute chick-lit story. Melissa is a relatable character whom you watch grow throughout the novel. You will cheer her on and feel the drama of every situation. A fun beach read!
If you just carry a book around with you and stop telling yourself that you need an hour of complete silence to sit down and read, then I promise you that you can get through a book.Don’t have time to shop for books?
Don’t have time to read the back and decide if it’s the book for you?
The Little Lady Agency is one of those, and it completely fits the bill for a book that you can read a little bit at a time, and not find yourself confused when you pick it back up.
But chicklit has its place, and it's a cracking good read for those moments when all you want is mental popcorn.
I had a raging headache from reading too long by the time I finished, but I honestly didn't want to put it down till I reached the end.It reminded me strongly of Bridget Jones' Diary, but where Bridget is a bumbling, ineffectual Sloane Ranger wannabee, Melissa/Honey is a dyed-in-the-wool, private-school educated overachiever who doesn't have to learn the rules; she knows the rules because they hold up the pillars of her world.
Her best friend Gabi is a materialistic brat, and from the way Melissa thinks of her and acts toward her, I kept trying to figure out why they were friends at all, much less best friends.Even Jonathan, her main love interest, was less than impressive.
And the way the author kept inserting "American phrases" into his vocabulary like "awesome" and "cool," things I couldn't really picture this big-shot business man saying in context, made me think maybe she shouldn't be writing an American character at all.In fact, I really wanted Melissa to end up with her flatmate Nelson, who was the one and only likeable character in the whole book.
And while everyone else can see that Honey is really Melissa, Melissa feels like Honey is a completely different person.
Through Honey, she can become more confident, feel sexy, and demand what she wants, but she doesn't think she can do this as Melissa.I did like Honey, though.
And as Melissa became more like Honey, I started liking her more and caring about what happened to her.
Him running away was entirely unfortunate) and did I mention, a full time sucker?At a loss for a job and of money, Melissa is being recruited to an up-market escort agency, run by Miss McKinnon (Melissa’s home economics teacher), believing it was a clean business.
But despite, the decent front of the business, Melissa was still, a call girl, but a dignified one at that.As fates push Melissa to the right direction, she puts up her own agency called: The Little Lady Agency.
Call the Little Lady Agency: Everything organized, from your home to your wardrobe, your social life to you.
Could Melissa finally turn her life around and be Honey, even without the blonde hair?
Unsure of what to do next, Melissa decides to take the skills she learned at finishing school help hapless men.
Donning a blonde wig and snug clothing, Melissa becomes “Honey,” a confident go-getter who helps give direction to clueless men.
Does he care for her or just the persona of “Honey”?My thoughts: I picked this book out simply because on the cover, Sophie Kinsella, a writer I enjoy, had a comment on the front.
I did not want to read a book about a female escort or prostitute.
I enjoyed the book enough to go get the rest of the series.
“My name is Melissa Romney-Jones, but you can call me Honey.
A bit, you know, shy”The Little Lady Agency is a delightful chick lit that I picked up based on Sophie Kinsella’s recommendation (right there on the cover).In a few lines story is about Melissa Romney-Jones an under confident & under achieving twenty something that loses her job and re-invent herself with a new identity (aka Honey) and as proud owner of The Little Lady Agency, a consulting firm that targets bachelors and clueless men who need to shop, entertain, and navigate social engagements.You can find a great review on Novelicious.
What bothered me the most was how Honey/Melissa was just plain dumb, even though she was supposed to be smart and sharp and everything.
Melissa is extremely self-pitying even though she outright claims that she's not, complaining to Nelson about blah, blah and bemoaning the possibility of him and Gabi even though she treats them both pretty badly (mostly Nelson).
Ugh. I'm really angry, I feel like I lost IQ points while reading this, and the only reason I read it is because I forgot my other book at work and this was a last resort.
Got this book from a friend and it is one of those typical "I hate myself and can't find the right man but I'm going to go through a huge rough patch and you'll read all about it and I'll wind up extremely happy in the end" stories that always makes you happy and sucks you right in.
You totally know what I am talking about.With all the heavy reading I've done lately I was in need of some light refreshment and this did the trick!The best part of this book?
A very fun book to read!
I highly enjoyed this novel because it was light hearted and fun, but also not silly.
I appreciated that this book had clean language and no gratuitous sex...which I find far to prevalent in many books these days.
Basic plot is that Melissa is unhappy in her current situation in life, and after losing her job embarks on new adventures as "Honey" a girlfriend (without the sex!) for hire.
Definitely more fun and much smarter than I thought it would, but I will be reading the other books in the series.
An easy flowing chick-lit - the protagonist is a large hearted girl with a family who relies too much on her (not for money, but for their general well-being and arranging parties, weddings etc.) with an overbearing brute of a rich, politically inclined father who 'lends' money, not gifts it to his daughters, who is overpowering and dominant and who makes his family's life a hell.
The heroine has a platonic live in male friend, another hottie whom she has hots for, but has to pretend to be someone else.
Forced to find a new line of work when she was fired from her job as a secretary, she starts her own consulting firm, almost by accident - the Little Lady Agency - where she helps men who are socially inept learn how to dress and behave.
This part of the job, however, is what gets her into trouble, as her pretend girlfriend status starts to become a little too real.I really enjoyed the book, and although at times I was a little confused with the Brittish turn of phrase, it was a fun, light read.
