https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39030.Reliquary
So, chances are, if you’re in the mood for a chili cheese dog with extra onions and are okay with the downside of planting that baby in your stomach (including the inevitable Ron Burgundy-style “Milk was a bad choice!” exclamations you’ll undoubtedly utter when the plot takes a few face-palming turns and/or our characters feast on a delicious roasted subway rat), you’re going to scarf this down and keep coming back for more.
(Though I’m not sure if any of those things are powerful enough to offset the effects of the mighty chili cheese dog with extra onions and relish.
He has a great distaste for opera.” WikipediaThe survivors from the first book in the series, Relic, have returned in another monster mash adventure that will take them deep into the underground, beneath the streets of New York City.
The monster from Relic may have perished, but due to the mad workings of a desperate scientist, there are these human hybrid creatures called Wrinklers who are growing in numbers deep in the bowels of the underground.
It suddenly dawned on him that these must be the Wrinklers….”The Wrinklers crave the same plant life that was brought back from the Brazilian jungle to the National History Museum.
Oh the humanity…the expectation-murdering ugh of the dreadful sequel to the quality original. Unfortunately they happen. Some are a menace to the phantoms of our youthful memories: …others make us long for murderous Revenge on the studio that spawned it from their retched, greed-dripping Jaws. Some sequels have plot/acting/directing so loaded with mockery- needed fail that we are transformed into staunch proponents of the virtues of franchise euthanasia: …and some sequels are just big, bloated,
*convulsive shudder*Relic, the first book in the Pendergast series was a lot of fun and I thought did a great job of taking the murder/mystery thriller and accessorizing it was an “X-file” like supernatural element grounded it plausible scientific explanation.
PLOT SUMMARY:The story takes place about 18 months after the events of Relic and reunites the reader with many of the original players along with some new faces to solve a series a brutal murders being committed against the homeless population living under New York City.
Now, on the positive side, Pendergast is still an engaging character and when he is on the page he makes the story better.
What a fun and suspenseful book to read!
You'll enjoy a few new characters such as Hayward (a badass woman cop for NYPD) to the chief of police that's the typical narcissistic politician that makes bad decisions.
This was so fascinating since it's based on facts and the community that live below New York City.I really loved this part of the book besides all the science information Dr. Margo Green has to solve.Anyway, I love this series!
The books are gripping, suspenseful and have a wonderful quality of great characters to love and hate.
Uh, yes please!Thanks to my awesome friend Terry for doing a buddy read with me on this book.
A great sequel to the first of the Pendergast series, Reliquary is an absorbing, page-turner that is better than its predecessor.Seeing updates of this book popping up in my feed recently was a good reminder that I've been intending to continue with this series.
Reliquary is the sequel to Relic with the same cast of main characters who survived the horrors at the Museum of Natural History, after a time-gap of about eighteen months.
Reliquary takes the story out of the Museum of Natural History into the underground tunnels of New York City; from one atmospheric and creepy location to another setting that is even more sinister.
The excellent continuation of the Pendergast series.
Well, it isn’t.[He] jerked his head back instinctively at the sight, but not before his brain had registered something out of his worst nightmare, worse for being vague in the dim light.This is a fairly spooky novel, and more than a little gruesome at times, but it doesn’t quite manage to maintain the level of terror that Relic did throughout.
“There are perhaps more types of underground inhabitants, Dr. Brambell, than are dreamt of in your philosophy.”There’s a lot of potential for spoilers here, but the basic premise of the plot is: people are turning up dead with their heads missing.
In other words, expect a lot of darkness, claustrophobia and downright terror.In all truth: this is a 3-star book.
Enjoyable sequel to Relic - it has the same fab characters and the same spooky story but this time set in the underground tunnels of New York. Love all the 'science' bits as before and just think it's a fun creepy story.To add to the hilarity I listened to this one on audio and the man talking in a girl's voice made me laugh so much and then when they were denoting a thought rather than something said aloud they used an 'echo' effect - heehee! (I am so childish sometimes!)
4.3 rounded down.
A very fun book that is just a tiny step down from the awesomeness that was book 1.
The ending was a little too much "Really..?" and "That's who..." for me but not enough so that it took away from the overall enjoyment of the whole thing.
I thought it was much more violent than its predecessor, but that is a good thing with me and it definitely had a lot more going on peripherally with many side plots and extra characters.
I liked it a lot and it was a good way to spend a couple of days reading time.
I’m glad the authors decided to continue the story of Mbwun right off, although it’s clear after the prologue that much has happened and mutated behind the scenes.You get a return of the familiar characters, but most have changed a little, partly from the events they survived and partly from the developments which befell them as a consequence of those events.
The authors conclude this fiction piece by pointing in the afterword to a non-fiction book written about this very subject.The underground tunnel scenes are intense, creepy, but they never touch the atmosphere of the original.
Reliquary is to Relic what Aliens is to Alien.
Both are them are great books (and movies) and while the first book (movie) focuses on a single predator in a closed space, the latter focuses on multiple predators in larger space.Reliquary, while being as intense as Relic, also manages to have time for character development.
In addition to the gang of four we saw in Relic (Pendergast, D'Agosta, Margo & Bill), we have new characters who also have their own unique stories.The great writing as well as the fast pacing carries over from Relic.
In conclusion, Reliquary is a great sequel to Relic.
Very fun and exicting sequel to Relic. Those who enjoyed the first book would likely enjoy this follow-up, which included several of the original characters. The book is filled with action and science and a great, creepy setting, which is hard to believe is based on reality. I enjoyed very much, and look forward to reading more of the adventures of Pendergast. Thanks to Ginger also, for a great buddy read!
Battle of wits between Type A NYPD and brilliant minds of Pendergast and company?
There was not a single dull moment in this book and enjoyed it considerably more than it’s predecessor.
If there is the slightest hesitation to read these books, stop.
As I said, this is petty and does not take away from the excitement and brilliance of the book, but in the moment, annoyed me and took me out of the tunnels.
I battled with myself on whether I would mention this and couldn’t get away from it, so sorry for the rant .
This book was scary, or gave me a few shivers but for entirely different reasons than Relic.
The thing is, there are these tunnels, with all of these homeless: vets, mentally disturbed, current and ex drug users, ex convicts, current law dodgers, people who don’t feel like they can be above, and many more types; all there under New York.
I also love how this (ok real spoiler ) (don’t read this sentence ) built in the end of the last book with Kawakita’s experiments at the end and the drug he made.
I'm trying to reread the whole series (for what is probably the fourth or fifth time) before the latest book comes out in May. Funny reading this again, I couldn't help but notice how little Pendergast is in this one.
And I give major points to both authors for giving me so many characters I like (no one annoys me)--Margo, D'Agosta, Smithback, and Hayward all have equal billing with Pendergast.
So minor things tend to reoccur in later novels, which I really like.
I also read Mole People because the authors urge us to at the end of the book (and it's obvious how much they draw from that source) and that's another amazing book.
Pendergast is still a good character but the story wanders a little farther into the suspension of disbelief area.There is one point in this book that disappointed me particularly, but to go into what would require a notable spoiler.
Read it to fill in the Pendergast saga, it's a quick read and if you plan to follow the entire "series" (as Andy Griffith said in his Hamlet routine) "you will need it later".
I would say don't let it put you off as later parts of the Pendergast saga are much better.
Please let me never again read a novel about a race of mutated hoboes living underground.
Zanimljiva sve vreme. Simpatični likovi.
The Relic seemed like more of a classic monster story whereas this one took a different approach that I didn't think worked as well.(view spoiler)[ The whole mad scientist posing as a god to the monsters in the sewer just didn't work to me, even though there at least were good explanations presented for what led to the events.
(hide spoiler)]Overall I did enjoy it, and if you liked The Relic you'll like this one too.
I just don't think this one was quite as good overall.
Es un libro muy entretenido, con mucha acción y que se lee muy bien, pero además de la parte de aventuras, investigación y misterio, la novela tiene algo más.Esta nueva entrega se desarrolla en dos planos espaciales claramente diferenciados: el Manhattan que todo el mundo conoce y la amplia red de túneles subterráneos que hay bajo él.
Los autores nos llevan más allá al enfrentar además a los habitantes de esos dos mundos: la sociedad neoyorquina plenamente integrada Vs las personas sin hogar que habitan esos túneles.
Me parece que debe tener más ventajas que inconvenientes, ya que si uno de los dos se atasca en algún punto de la trama, siempre es más fácil salir del apuro consultando al otro.
Tal vez pueda leerse de manera independiente, pero no lo aconsejo, ya que la historia retoma los hechos poco después de lo acontecido en ‘The Relic’ y es fácil perder todo el entramado que se forma alrededor.En cuanto a la historia de ‘El relicario’, nos encontramos otra vez en Nueva York.
The novel Relic was a huge success nad made into a fairly successful, albeit bad, movie.Naturally, the authors wanted to make a sequel.
The book seems about half baked, and about ten years behind the times (1997).
There's a lot of pseudo-science, but it's like the authors read Bonfire of the Vanities, and tried to shove it into a Jaws rip off.
There's even a pompous author's statement about homelessness, as if they didn't realize that homelessness disappeared from the msm's attention from January 20, 1993, to January 20, 2001.
The book feels like it was written in the 1980s, but it wasn't.All in all, not bad, though certainly not great.
MINI REVIEW: A nice follow up to book one that doesn't suffer through the typical sophomoric slump. Yes, the beast is back but in a totally different manner so no real spoilers there. Focus upon the mole people of NYC with some interesting tidbits of American History that go back quite a ways. Dialog and story plotting are particularly well done and new characters come to visit. If you enjoyed the first book then you should enjoy this one as well. WHEN READ: July to September 2010; MY GRADE: B plus to A minus.
sorry for my english, i can't fetch any proper adjectives to describe how good the book iswhen i hadn't finished reading it yet, i mean, in the middle part of reading this, i just got gripped and shocked alreadysay, i nibbled finishing the book
That was as entertaining as it was frustrating and sad. There are several misogynistic and elitist white characters that are hard to take. Our heroes return from Book One but fail to develop as characters, save Margo, and in some cases devolve. The action mostly takes place in the sewers so I had to turn the audiobook off while I ate. Unpleasant.The plot could have used more action and a hundred less pages. It ended with a great deal of possibility, enough for me to pick up Book Three but not tomorrow.
Pelo contrário, algo ainda mais temível habita nas profundezas de Manhattan e tudo o que parecia bem explicado no final do livro anterior não passa de um erro potencialmente fatal… Apesar de destruir todos os princípios que tomamos como garantidos com o desenlace em A Relíquia, as novas informações são um complemento à estória e permitem realmente perceber o que está por detrás destes horríveis eventos.
No final do livro, quando a violência contra os sem-abrigo se torna insustentável, foi difícil lidar com o preconceito, a discriminação e o ódio que os autores tão bem retratam.
Relic, #1 in the FBI agent Pendergast series, must be read first before 'Reliquary', #2 in the series. I do not want to reveal anything else about 'Reliquary' because the novel will be spoiled by a review which discusses it too much. The book continues 18 months after the events introduced in 'Relic'. It concludes 'Relic's plot. Maybe.; )
Aber danach zog sich die Geschichte für mich so ein wenig dahin und viele Nebenschauplätze, wie zum Beispiel über die Befindlichkeiten und Nichtverarbeitung der Ereignisse aus dem ersten Teil, oder ein Großteil der Story um den Journalisten Smithback brachten für mich die Geschichte nicht wirklich vorwärts.
Leider konnten mich die Handlungen der einzelnen Protagonisten oftmals nicht wirklich überzeugen, sie waren mir manchmal einfach zu naiv oder unüberlegt.Als es auf das Finale des Buches zusteuert kam bei mir wieder ein Spannungsgefühl auf und die Geschichte entwickelt sich flott weiter.
I really enjoyed this story! Not quite as dry reading as Relic! Pendergast, Margo, D'Agosta and Dr. Frock are part of this story too! I was very surprised by who the villain was! Good ending!
I'm still not convinced I want to continue..
