https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/183211.Harriet_Tubman
This book was originally published in 1955 but has been updated with a forward by Jason Reynolds and fabulous cover art by Caldecott honor award and NAACP Image Award winner Kadir Nelson.
Petry wrote this book from conversations she personally had with Harriet Tubman, however there appears to be some descriptions and narrative that are not actually factual.
It was enlightening to get this more in-depth picture of her life.
I highly recommend this book to Middle Schoolers all the way up to adults.
While there might be value in reading this book to get a "feel" for Tubman's life, it should be considered historical fiction.
There is no documentation of what was said specifically at events like the night Harriet was born.
I want to read Scenes in the Life of Harriet Tubman by Susan Bradford - who knew Harriet and interviewed her extensively for the book (to raise money to support Harriet).
If students do read Petry's book - there's room for teaching about an author's interpretation of historical events and documents and how that influences what is written.
must read
Ever since I was a little girl, I have been obsessed with Harriet Tubman.
I remember the first book I read about her as a little girl.
I remember how in awe I was over Harriet's braveness.
I also remember that the book was too short.
I wish I had known about this book then because I surely would have read it.I do think that this book should be classified as historical fiction, though.
WHAT AN AMAZING WOMAN!!
If Harriet accomplished half of the things mentioned in this book she would still be AMAZING.
This woman thought nothing of herself or her safety, she just wanted to free people that never should had been treated as anything other than human beings.
I always loved watching movies reading and hearing about Harriet Tubman, her life was so interesting and unbelievable (happy proof exists that no one can dispute)Harriet's life was also so sad (to me) but she kept on going and kept looking out for others and doing for others inspite of her situation(s).
This books gives you a glimps of what could easily be a series of stories about the many things this beautiful woman has accomplished.
YAH HARRIET!!
The story of Harriet Tubman is inspirational! Her compassion for others was astounding.
This reads more like historical fiction than a nonfiction text. It's a great read, and you really get a sense of Harriet Tubman, but as a history buff I have some issues with the dialogue. If it's made up, how can we call this a work of nonfiction? I did very much enjoy reading it, and would have given it 4 stars as a work of historical fiction, but I can't it good conscience give it more than 3 stars as currently classified.
So she became a conductor on the Underground Railroad and devoted her life to getting as many people out of slavery as possible.Age Range: This biography book would have to be for the older age ranges such as intermediate or advanced age groups.
This really is a great book I read about Harriet Tubman in middle school and I remember being so interested in her story and I feel like middler schoolers today will still like this book a lot.
Its a great book to learn about slavery and how brave and determined Harriet really was in running the Underground Railroad.
Harriet was born a slave in Maryland's eastern shore, and dreamed of freedom "in the north" all her life.
The book documents some of the brutal treatment of slaves including some of Harriet's abuse during her upbringing, which contributed to lasting health problems.
But once she escaped to freedom, she realized that she had skills and knowledge that could also free her family and others.
She made repeated trips back to the south, serving as a "conductor" on the "Underground Railroad" and helping hundreds of slaves to escape to freedom.
i thought it was boring at first but when i kept reading the book i kept getting into it and i finished the book in 22 days because i read chapter by chapter each day so i recommend this book for every one to read but when i finished the book i ended up reading it for class with my teacher and we will write summaries of the book and now i and writing about every part of the story i hope you guys like it and love it because sure enough did have a great day and enjoy yourself
Great book. I had no idea she did so much. It is from the junior section, so there wasn't the gore of slavery, just the explanation of the horrible wrong it is. It talked very simply about what she went through, but the vocabulary was still pretty advanced (I learned some words). I really appreciated the picture she painted.
I listened to the audio edition of this book. The narrator read slowly (which I like) and articulated well. The story of Harriet Tubman is fascinating, but I thought this telling was not great. It was somewhat repetitive (annoying). I would always recommend learning more about Harriet Tubman, but probably not this particular biography.
Just read Harriet Tubman ~ Conductor on the Underground Railroad by Ann Petry. We've all heard the stories, but WOW, what a woman - she is truly a Founding Mother of our Nation; the influence she had on policy makers, abolitionists, and our Nation's struggle with Civil Rights is unfathomable.
Awesome book for younger readers, combines historical content with some fictional parts in order to keep readers interested. Excellent way to teach young readers about the impact of this amazing woman on the history of our country and our world.
I read this book in a day out of necessity caused by procrastination, so my view of the book is admittedly a little warped. I enjoyed the information given, but the way it was presented made it more tedious to read in one day than other biographies I've read.
One of my top ten books. Harriet was an amazing woman, an inspiration for all. Her story brings tears to your eyes when you learn of her life in slavery. My 7 year old is reading all about her and she has become a heroine in our home.
great read
I think this book is a good book,every middle school student should read this book.:D
I think this was the book that I was obsessed with in the third grade-- I've proabably read it more than any other book and it likely jumpstarted my love of history and historical fiction.
this was a good book it was long but a good story that i enjoyed about harriet tubman
"They Called Her Moses."
wonderful biography of an amazing woman!
This book is very complex, but is also interesting as you go along and build an understanding of it.
Read in elementary school; I loved Harriet Tubman!!
i would only read this for a class project. very educational and somewhat exciting
READ IN CLASS
So I've really only read about 10 pages of this with my 8th graders...how are kids supposed to fully appreciate books & stories when all they ever read are excerpts?
Harriet can do so much better than John
I enjoyed this book. The writing style was one I always enjoy. Straight forward, to the point,but also well researched and humble in it'sdelivery.
One of the only non-fiction books that I could not put down.Harriet Tubman, Conductor on the Underground Railroad is a non-fiction book that tells that life story of Harriet Tubman, an American abolitionist, and conductor of the underground railroad.
Anne Petry depicts Tubman’s life story like a fiction book.
Ann Petry described the slaves longing for freedom throughout the book.
Ann Petry not only describes the events of Harriet’s life but also, during the same time of the events of Harriet life, she explains what was going on in the history of enslavement.
This text briefly explains what is going on during this time in terms of enslavement.
