https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13101962-we-also-walk-dogs
This story surrounds the activities of "General Services," a company that will do anything (legal) through its resourceful people and hired experts. Their tagline, "We also walk dogs!" captures the can-do spirit of the work.There is very little plot to speak of in this little homily of Heinlein's, but the simple concept makes for an enjoyable, quick read.
A brilliant example how just how much story can be fitted into just a few pages. Loved this one and it a wonderful thing to read.
I loved the light heart approach to this story. It was pretty much a science fiction version of the Girl Friday concept of whatever you need, we will deliver.Have a GoodReads.
This story stands decently on its own, and has a lighter feel to it. It was a nice break from the outer space/Moon-based stories that made up the last few predecessors to this one.
Book #13 out of #21 in the Future History series. It was first published in Astounding Science Fiction (July 1941, as by Anson MacDonald). This story might be an example of the mega-corporation? The corporation, "General Services", appears more powerful than the government and uses avant methods to get things done.
Удивительно, как рано человек мог придумать хотя бы в своей богатой фантазии такое интригующее и полезное устройство.А сама идея рассказа меня заинтриговала - глобальная организация, выполняющая все функции, которые Вам неприятны, или которые занимают много личного времени.
Одна организация, которая может все, что разрешено законом...
В этой идее есть какая-то тонкая ирония над современным человеком: а что еще в своей жизни мы считаем не стоящим нашего времени?
есть и что-то пугающее в идее: организация, которая для выполнения одного задания, может создать гравитационный модулятор.
Организация, которая может себе позволить такие технологические прорывы для "выгула собак" или других одноразовых корпоративных задач...Рассказ определенно обгоняет свое время - и интересен своими идеямидаже в 2015.
Heinlein is a story about a futuristic corporation that handles almost anything.
I read this book two months ago and remember enjoying it but feeling the story was quite a bit easy.
I heavily enjoyed Heinlein’s view of the future.
The all in one service organization is both believable and enjoyable.
In fact if it wasn’t for worries of monopolies and such, I could see a number of organizations jumping on that bandwagon and trying to be an all in one solution.
In fact Amazon probably would love to be in that business.
The issue is that this is a short story.
An enjoyable story though.
https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=... got me reading this futuristic short story. Magic!
uma empresa de 'faz-tudo' é contratada para um trabalho secreto... ótima noveleta, Heinlein clássico
Historia corta. Me ha costado un poco entenderla... Tendré que releerla.
There's a fully fleshed out story hiding in here, but this feels like a quickly sketched out outline for that full story. A mildly interesting scenario to consider, nothing more.
