https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1814843.The_Siege_of_Macindaw
The Siege of Macindaw (Ranger's Apprentice, #6), John FlanaganThe Siege of Macindaw is the sixth book in the Ranger's Apprentice series by Australian author John Flanagan. The book was first published on 1 May 2007 in Australia and on 4 August 2009 in the United States. تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سی ام ماه نوامبر سال 2014 میلادیعنوان: محاصره مکینداو - جنگاوران جوان: کتاب ششم؛ نویسنده: جان فلنگان؛ مترجم: فائزه اثناعشری؛ تهران، افق، 1393، در 405 ص؛ نقشه، شابک: 9786003530362؛ موضوع: داستانهان کودکان از نویسندگان انگلیسی قرن 21 ما. شربیانی
And thus the two-book adventure in wintry Norgate comes to a close.
Fair winds to the Skandians, particularly Gundar Hardstriker.
Farewell to the brilliant healer, the tender-hearted giant, the unpopular chamberlain.
Au revoir to Horace and Alyss.
We'll see you again, no doubt.
Come visit me at Seacliff.3.75 stars (good but too predictable).
I rounded it up to 4 stars because it's such a heartwarming book, with a sweet finish.
No sex, no cussing, but beware of some bloody battles and scary superstitions.
It was written for older kids and young adults, but I enjoyed it, too.
Ok so maybe not that bad but still, it was pretty darn bad.Some of the things I found wrong where it were that it kept repeating the same stuff, over and over and over and over and you get the point:) Like the information about how castle stairway's were built so that the person coming down had the advantage.
That is great information and all but I really don't think we need to read it three times, I mean come on does the author think we're that dumb?
AND the 'quote' humorous moments in the book were all just stupid and dumb and boring and ahhhhhh they didn't need to be there.AND FUTHERMORE!
I had a couple of complaints with this book and at least one may be explained by the fact that I have read so many books.
There were times when I was going "okay, we all know what's coming next...just get on with your cliche and move the story along!" But I'm not really sure that everyone thinks that...so whether the books plot and the story's situations are a bit (as I said) cliched, is something to decide for yourself.
Often I saw plot devices I recognized going in and knew the next events almost as if I'd already read them.
Quite good!
xDThe Siege of Macindaw is the sixth book of the Ranger’s Apprentice series.
It starts immediately after the ending of book five.
This is the culmination of everything that was started in the last book.
I’m an emotional mess and that was sad even if it was also really sweet.Did Horace just actually lie?
I think the author is a lot better at writing humor and action than emotional development … but then again, I’m a woman and the MC is a man … maybe men just don’t think about love as much as women … what do I know?Anyway, this is still a quick and fun series and I have the next four books waiting for me at home (yay for libraries!)
this one just didn't do it for me, I thought it was really disappointing after the first 5!! still good.... But just not as exciting as the previous books. hopefully the next one is better.
The Siege of Macindaw was much better than The Sorcerer in the North. I was glad to have Horace back - his and Will's relationship (and banter!) is becoming one of my favourite part of the series. I liked seeing them work together without Halt or Crowley or any of the other mentors. And getting some Skandians back on the scene was fantastic. They always supply some comic relief and epic fight sequences. Overall, a great sequel. I look forward to getting some answers in Erak's Ransom.
They just keep getting better and better!!!!
The story was very well built up and I loved how Will and Horace managed to get back the castle by keeping a cool head and a very creative strategy!
Sadly lacking in Halt... but somehow still amazing!
Also not my favorite of the series. Once again, Halt is only in it very briefly, and Tug is barely mentioned.
Everything is back to normal and everyone gets back to what there doing but before leaving Will leaves his only dog to trobar who fell in love with the dog and trobar promised if she has puppy's he wants one and Will after saving Alyss returns home to his cabin and feels alone but hes not done yet and goes after Alyss again and feels happy.
This book was so great! I loved the humor in it. The ingenious ideas. The romance that finally starts to go somewhere a little bit. I loved the plot. The characters both old and new. And all of it. It’s just a great book. One of my all time favorites in the series.
I really loved this book! It's so cool to see Will on his own now, though I do miss Halt a lot :(. I kinda wish there had been more of him in the book, but I guess Will would never grow up then. *sigh*
7/10.
My favourite in the series. Probably the funniest.
I loved this book, it was filled with action, adventure, suspense and has a good sense of humor.
روزگاری قلعه ای بود به نام مکینداوبعد از ۲ سال تونستم جلد بعدی این مجموعه رو بخونمداستان خیلی خوب و روون پیش میرفت و آخرش هم بخوبی تموم کرد
He keeps Will, Horace, and Alyss interesting while also introducing all sorts of new and different characters.
Why wouldn't Keren order some men to investigate the cart, to see if there might be any hint of what kind of siege they might be planning?
Why not walk down to investigate why the cart isn't burning, and then break it apart for firewood or something!?
I think the implication is that Keren could easily have picked up the sword and finished the job, or held Will down while Alyss struck the fatal blow.
Anyway, I loved the ending, and left the book with lots of positive feelings.
Page wise, they obviously have been.There are a few major complaints I have about this 5 year time skip.
I generally love time skips.
It moves a story forward, characters can develop in more drastic ways, a lot of things can change, and the need to adapt to the new setting is generally very enjoyable.
Then, there are the few new elements to the story.
Ofcourse, that is how stories are usually told, but what bugs me is that things have only been introduced in the beginning of this book, and then depended on in a few chapters.
The main thing happening in this book is the actual siege.
It's a 300-page read and it reads very fast, but focussing so much on this one event made it really feel like a middle book.
In the end, not that much happens at all.Also I didn't remember just how much these books are focussed on younger readers.
The main villain was mostly mean.I hope I'll like the next book in the series better.
4.5 stars. Really love when Will and Horace get to work together. Also, the emotions are awesome-- like someone will snap at the other or say something out of jealousy and then apologize, recognizing that they messed up and shouldn't have done it AND then admit why, for the most part. It is nice to see guys in fiction showing emotions and taking responsibility for what they say, even in anger.
This an excellent series. I love the characters, especially how they have both good and bad aspects. Flanagan was very clever in how he incorporated passages to remind me of what happened in the previous book without being overt or repetitious. Hypnotism doesn't happen the way it was described. But, since this is a different world, perhaps it does in that world. :D
This was a really good book, and I enjoyed until the very last page. It was full of twists and turns, and surprises. It also had a lot of emotion which helped you connect with the main character. Also it had action pretty much throughout the book, and it doesn't get boring. I would recommend this series to anyone who liked the Harry Potter, and the Percy Jackson series.
I am slowing down with this series and toying with the idea of handing them all off to my niblings without finishing the rest.The middle school boys I taught this year were all over the books in this series, but while I love training-the-hero stories and especially fantasy without magic, I find myself wanting something a little more grown-up.
3,5/5 Traag gestart met veel verwijzingen naar vorige boeken wat het voor ons wat saaier maakte want we lezen ze vlak na mekaar. Maar dan weer geweldige nevenpersonages, actie en spanning. Of zoals oudste zoon het zei: nog een hoofdstukje mama?! Dus met twee weer genoten en op naar deel 7!
I loved this whole series, the characters were amazing and really made the story something special.
Wow, so after a few months, I finally chose to get back to this series again; figured I should finish the book since I was interrupted by the book's due date, hence why I couldn't complete it the first time. But now, I finished! Yay for me~ *small claps*Let's begin! Story: The Siege of Macindaw begins where the previous installment of the series left off: Will and his friends find a way to take back Castle Macindaw and save Alyss.That's it. That's the summary and the main point of this book XDSi
Having Horace in this installment brings such life into the book; he's a comic character while also being the one who calls the shots (in the battlefield when Will's not there).
It was nice to see all the character interactions and the battle scenes with their HECK YEA moments and the wonderful writing, but other than that, if the book didn't have any of those, then the whole installment would just be about taking back a castle.I didn't find a gem in this book -- and by gem, I mean something that makes me treasure it.I did like a lot of things that happened in this book, but overall, this book was just blah...
As a continuation of the story from the previous book, I don't think it really helped that I couldn't remember much about the Sorcerer of the North.
I couldn't recognize a lot of names, and I barely remember the basic plot.
Even excluding that, I wasn't as much of a fan of this one as the previous, I had loved just seeing Will be in his quiet fief, but this book focuses (once again) more on planning for a war/attack, and I was just bored.
All in all, just too many war/battle/planning for a war/battle aspects.
