https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/818991.The_Destruction_of_the_European_Jews
A comprehensive description of how the Nazis went about murdering 6,000,000 Jews ...
solving unprecedented logistical problems with frightening German efficiency ...
equally inventive at explaining why the Jews had to die and thus why their behavior was necessary and patriotic.I do not remember any other book which has cast such a pall of sadness over me, as I read page after page with descriptions like these ......
Hoss concluded after visiting Treblinka … carbon monoxide was not efficient … instead at Auschwitz he introduced a quicker-working hydrogen cyanide - Zyklon … ...
no Jew was left alive for lack of railroad transport to a killing center...
A new plan was necessary.So I read it, and wow, Hilberg's worth all the love he's won.
The main text is footnote-like enough, and that's what wins the four stars: no more dispassionate writeup is imaginable, and it's that perfectly-hung facade that makes this a more furious indictment of the Reich than anything I've come across.
One really must read it, or at least the first two-hundred pages or so, to grok what I'm saying and countless others have said.Fifth star deducted due to infrequent but irritatingly noticeable repetitions, especially of quotes.---Finally picked this up.
On my list of 10 books that have changed my life: "Though it hasn't changed my life the way some books have, I rank it here because it was invaluable in understanding the dynamics of individual, social, and political evil."
Essential reading. This is a meticulously referenced scholarly treatise, not a popular (or populist) history, Hilberg's deliberate historical style only occasionally leavened by an understated irony or outright sarcasm. Despite (or perhaps because of) the dryness of the language, the numerous organizational tables, the footnotes, and the statistics, the text is straightforward and not difficult to follow. The facts and events speak for themselves; particularly with the first two volumes, there are times when one must put down the book and weep.
Hilberg had great difficulty getting this book published. At that time people did not feel that the Holocaust was a subject that there was a lot of interest in. But, once it did get published, people saw that it was a subject of enormous historic importance. Hilberg concentrated on the way the mass murder was organised by the German state, and he had an eye especially for the issues of bureaucracy and technology, which he thought were the decisive factors that made this a new kind of major crime. Read the full interview at http://thebrowser.com/books/interview...
300)Many who know how the death camps and gas chambers worked might not know that the Jewish community leaders in the ghettos made well-meaning deals with the Nazis to hand out some for "transfer to the East" in order to save others."[In Salonika] the Jewish leadership cooperated with the German deportation agencies upon the assurance that only 'Communist' elements from the poor sections would be deported, while the 'middle-class' would be left alone.
The author's method places high emphasis on documentational evidence for his sources, but anectodal testimonials are not excluded.Hilberg begins Volume I by explaining how a long European tradition of historical anti-semitism, social as well as legal, established a precedent and set the stage for the Nazi era.
Beginning experiments in gassing techniques are also documented.After that, Volume I explores the "mobile killing operations", in which special commando units operated, seeking out victims and carrying out mass murders on the front lines during invasions, (1941-3?).
Raul Hilberg suggests that the time to stop the Holocaust was when Germany passed its first law limiting Jewish civil rights.
Hilberg first examines the history of anti-semitism before Hitler, which helps to understand why there was so little opposition.
Hilberg then demonstrates the steps the Nazis used: first defining what a Jew was and reducing their civil rights, second concentrating Jews in ghettos or camps, and third annihilating them.
Fleeing Jews had nowhere to go outside Nazi-controlled territory: both the US and British-controlled Palestine restricted Jewish immigration, even after learning of the death camps.
a classic in genocide theory - honestly, its a first source for operations and order in genocide. a must read for those interested
His better book is the Destruction of European Jews.
An essential lecture. Escaping wasn't easy and it isn't still. One cannot help recognize the patterns that repeat themselves every time intolerance and hatred awake in our "so called" modern societies. A great work of historical research. There's human struggle all trough these pages: from the Millions of lives destroyed and from the prudent and potent voice of a human historian who is trying to decipher the many reasons why.
The definite book about the destruction of the Jews during WWII. Hilberg deconstruct the Nazi machinery bolt by bolt and explains the steps taken to destroy the Jews in Europeit is nopw the recognized source for all the other books on the subject. I've read the French version in 3 volumes, updated a few years ago, after the opening of the russian archives.
This is a textbook about the Holocaust. The prose is dry as dust, but somehow the horrible things Hilberg discusses have more impact because of the scholarly tone. Lots of facts, figures and quotes from primary sources. I admit to skimming some parts, but overall, it was a very interesting (and sad) book.
This is a thorough, authoritative, and extensively documented work on the Holocaust. It is full of statistics and charts, but it does not minimize the human aspect of this horrible tragedy. The facts and figures are perhaps the biggest indictment and judgement against the Nazi regime.
I heard about this book from the author's NYTimes obituary. On my recent roadtrip I listened to an audiobook set in pre-Nazi Munich. Many of the camps & gas chambers were located there. This sounds like a good book to follow on to that.
This must be one of the most informative books on the Holocaust in so few pages. Highly recommended.
Such a powerful, quiet book
Of course.
*To read for: list of coded terms used to mask murder, i.e. "Sonderbehandlung," meaning Special Treatment in German, but code for immediate killing.
Es una de esas obras que lees con pesar por lo que cuenta pero que lees hasta el final. Muy completa. casi definitiva sobre el tema.
Anxiously awaiting this text which may be the single most important study of the Holocaust ever written.
Finiti
There have been a million books written on the history of the holocaust, but this remains the authoritative tomb. Must read for every liberally educated person. Must, must!
Foundational
Citado varias veces en Eichmann en Jerusalén.
Very clear and well-organized, gives a very complete overview of how German bureaucracy and society progressively excluded, disowned, expelled and exterminated Jews in Europe.
There isn't much I can say that hasn't already been said, probably the definitive text on the operation of the nazi's Final Solution for Europe's Jews.
Meticulous and depressing but written in a clear and concise way I found it simultaneously hard to read and difficult to put down.
Hard because of the subject matter not because its a bad book and compelling because of the detail Hilberg musters.Hillberg said of writing the book;"No literature could serve me as an example.
The destruction of the Jews was an unprecedented occurrence, a primordial act that had not been imagined before it burst forth.
That is the greatest lie of anti-Semitism because it gives the lie to the slogan that Jews are conspiring to dominate the world and that they are so highly organized.
If they had some sort of organization, these people could have been saved by the millions; but instead they were taken completely by surprise.
The seminal work on the holocaust and arguably still one of the most succinct and balanced accounts of the tragedy. Hilberg tracks the progress of the Holocaust from the early stages of the legal definition of whom was to be discriminated against through to the eventual last trains arriving in Auschwitz before the wars end. for anyone seeking a good grounding in the topic this is undoubtedly the place to start.
This is part of flawed investigation based mainly on witness and not cross checked follow up.It is part of the folk created by the allied propaganda and yet little challenged.Have a critical, and careful, thinking when reading Hilberg. As a note: Hilberg was basically completely debunked in Canadian court, and refused to be cross checked in a second round as, on his words, he was afraid he wouldn't cope with the challenge.So here we are, a storry teller standing as "historian"
