https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1530799.Don_t_Bump_the_Glump_and_Other_Fantasies
The poems and artwork may seem a bit primitive if you've been dazzled by his later work, but it was a good start.
The illustrations are strange lumpish watercolors, not particularly impressive, but some of them are entertaining.
Here are my two favorite poems: THE CONSIDERATE SOFT-SHELLED PHIZZINTYou'll never know an animalmore considerate of human feelingsthan the Soft-Shelled Phizzint.Someone has mistaken this onefor a pincushionand he's too polite to say he isn't.OOPS!We've been caught by a Quick-Digesting GinkAnd now we are dodging his teethAnd now we're restin'In his small intestine,And now we're back out on the street....
Well, firstly I can't really say anything wrong about this book for me. This is probably because my Grandparents had a copy and every time we went round theirs my Grandad would read them to me and my sister. The book has so many good memories for me and I love it. I love the way that the poetry opens up a new world for the reader and although the poetry does seem more suited for younger children I still enjoy reading them immensely.
আমার পডা শেল সিলভারসটাইনের চতুরথ বই। আগের তিনটা ছিল দযা গিভিং টরি, অযা জিরাফ এনড অযা হাফ,  অযা লাইট ইন দযা অযাটিক।এই বইটাতে আছে পিকুলিযার কিছু ইমাজিনারি পরাণী যেগুলো কখনো ফানি, কখনো করিপি, সেগুলো নিযে ননসেনস রাইম। পডতে পডতে মাথায এলো শেল সিলভারসটাইন লোকটার মাথায লাখ-লাখ, কোটি কোটি আইডিযা গিজগিজ করতো কিনতু এই বইটিতে তিনি সৃজনশীলতাকে সুনদর করে শেইপ করতে পারেননি, অনয বইগুলোর মত করে। কবিতাগুলোর ছনদও কিছুটা আরোপিত মনে হযেছে। কঠিন কঠিন পরাণীদের নাম উচচারণে আমি অকষম হযেছি। রাইম যদি কানে না বাজে তাহলে আ
আমার পড়া শেল সিলভারস্টাইনের চতুর্থ বই। আগের তিনটা ছিল দ্যা গিভিং ট্রি, অ্যা জিরাফ এন্ড অ্যা হাফ,  অ্যা লাইট ইন দ্যা অ্যাটিক।এই বইটাতে আছে পিকুলিয়ার কিছু ইমাজিনারি প্রাণী যেগুলো কখনো ফানি, কখনো ক্রিপি, সেগুলো নিয়ে ননসেন্স রাইম। পড়তে পড়তে মাথায় এলো শেল সিলভারস্টাইন লোকটার মাথায় লাখ-লাখ, কোটি কোটি আইডিয়া গিজগিজ করতো কিন্তু এই বইটিতে তিনি সৃজনশীলতাকে সুন্দর করে শেইপ করতে পারেননি, অন্য বইগুলোর মত করে। কবিতাগুলোর ছন্দও কিছুটা আরোপিত মনে হয়েছে। কঠিন কঠিন প্রাণীদের নাম উচ্চারণে আমি অক্ষম হয়েছি। রাইম যদি কানে না বাজে তাহলে আমি ঠিক তৃপ্তি পাই না। আগে পড়া তিনটি বইতেই ছিল লাইন ড্রয়িং। কিন্তু এখানে শেল সিলভারস্টাইন ওয়াটার কালারে কিছু ড্রয়িং করেছেন ফানি এবং ক্রিপি জন্তু জানোয়ারগুলো নিয়ে। আমার কাছে মনে হয়েছে লাইন ড্রয়িংগুলোই ভাল ছিল। কালার চলে এলে কালারের সাথে কিছু যত্নও চলে আসা জরুরী হয়ে পড়ে। যদিও ড্রয়িংগুলোর জন্য পিকুলিয়ার ফিচারগুলো বুঝতে সুবিধা হচ্ছিল, তবুও ড্রয়িংগুলো একটু বেশিই অদ্ভুত। বিশেষ করে ক্রিপি ড্রয়িংগুলো। সেগুলো কিছুটা আনপ্লেজেন্টও। ছোট থাকতে আমি ভুতের বই পড়ে ভয় পেতে ভালবাসতাম, কিন্তু এই বইয়ের কিছু কিছু রাইম পড়ার সময় মনে হচ্ছে বাচ্চারা ভয় পাবে না তো?
There is one creature in color with a poem on each page.
The pages have more white space than the creatures and the poetry combined.
The poet sends out images and words that make you not want to see, smell, or touch them especially in the dark of night.Each poem has at least two lines that rhyme.
After this book is read a few times, it should be left out to see if the students can phonetically pronounce the names of the creatures.
This poet is showing poems in a new and fresh way.
Children will and have loved this collection because of the way the book makes them use there imaginations when reading these poems about all these fictional creatures.
The text is large and easy to read with a lot of white space around it and very little puncuation.
The illustrations bring a look to these creatures to help the reader visualize the abstract cratures that Silverstein writes about.
This collection is a classic that children will continue to enjoy.Language Arts/Science- A lesson can be developed about creatures that are obscure to kids that they can learn about.
Compare some of those animals with fictional creatures tha Silverstein writes about.
Shel Silverstein really knows the rules of poetry. He has flawless rhymes - unless he wants to play with them and break them, and then it works because he knows the rules so well. Some of these are super short, yet he always gets something across whether it's in a 2 page or 2 line poem. Love his imagination.
My 5 year old and I just read this for the first time and laughed and giggled all the way through. So if you're a fan of good ole Shel, then this book might be just the book for you! ;) ok I'll leave the rhyming to the professionals! Loved the color drawings and the poems were great.
Oh how I wish Shel Silverstein and Dr. Seuss would have done books with each other! This book did remind me of Dr. Seuss.
This was Shel Silverstein's first collection of poems. All of poems feature various creatures and plenty of rhymes. The poems are paired with illustrations, however they are very simple and tend to appear like blobs of color. While there was nothing wrong with these poems, they did not "wow me" like Shel Silverstein's later work. Young children would enjoy the silly language and made up creatures, as you really need to use your imagination. I would recommend for PreK-grade 2.
Adorable.
Poems about made up creatures, most accompanied by a watercolor illustration.
I'm a big fan of Shel Silverstein.
As a kid I listened to his recording of Where the Sidewalk Ends countless times.
The stuff in here was originally published in Playboy in the 1960s, then collected into a book in 1992, but I somehow only found it yesterday.
Not a problem though.
It's still delightful.A lot of the rhymes and animals remind me of Edward Gorey's creatures, though some are complete Lewis Carroll nonsense.
Short & silly rhyming poems with wonderful color illustrations.
This book is a set of poems about fictional monsters or wild creatures that Silverstein made up, all with funny names.
I think the fun of it was meant to be that it would be fun to hear all of the names out loud and have them rhyme with other English words, but other than this routine, there wasn't that much content.
I think the charm of Silverstein's poems is that he portrays life experiences with a sense of humor and in a whimsical way, which appeals to children and adults alike.
and Other Fantasies by Shel Silverstein is a collection of silly poems.
The book is illustrated with funny and scary colored creatures in each page.
There are about four to six lines on each page and they describe what is going in each page and who are the creatures in the story.
Shel Silverstein introduced a new way to view poetry, through this book he sends out a message, he is diplaying that poetry had no rules and it can read, written, and displayed in many different ways.
and Other Fantasies is Shel Silverstein's first book of poetry.
It is directed for children and contains his usual silly, imaginary situations that kids enjoy reading.
Even though that is completely unusual for Shel, it is still a fun read with so many humorous poems that force people to use their imaginations for these bizarre situations.
It is perfect for teachers and parents to give to young readers to enjoy.
These poems are funny and exciting, and allow these kids to step away from serious poetry and have fun with it.
He helps readers have fun and let go of their worries.
Don't Bump the Glump!
proved to be an entertaining read that I shared with my 10 year old brother.
This collection of verses has Shel's subtle humor combined with more blaring colored illustrations.
I'm more used to Shel's pen-and-ink, but I really did enjoy the bright watercolor and pen.
(If you were using this as a unit study, an activity that would go along nicely would be the 'find a shape' in water color splashes.) Being full of crazy monsters and implausible situations, this book is a collection of zany poetry.
Great as a solitary read or as a read aloud in pieces (or all at once)!

Not all of the poems in this little bestiary of critters are inspired; the illustrations are also of variable quality. But it is charming, nevertheless.If one hadn't already guessed that the author was not a Christian, I think the following poem would be a dead giveaway. THE TERRIBLE FEEZUS There is a terrible twenty-foot Feezus.Shhh ... I don't think he sees us.
This book is a poetry, and it is by Shel Silverstein.This book is a great for poetry because it has a lot of poems to read and you could read this in thirty minutes. My favorite one is " The One-Legged Zantz" it says "Please be kind to the One-Legged Zantz.Consider his feelings-Don't ask him to Dance.Yes, I recommend this book because it has a lot of funny poems.
Students will love to read this book of poetry by the author of, "Where the Sidewalk Ends" because Silverstein is the author that woke them up to the joys of poetry.
It eats boys and girls so the author recommends disguising children with ordinary food like ketchup that The Bibely would never eat.
First, the students could compare and contrast this poetry writing to the later works by Shel Silverstein that they are already familiar with from their past reading.
Additionally, this book would be a brilliant selection for a creative writing project where students could write about the creatures described the poems.
This is one of the few Shel Silverstein books that I had not read as a kid.
I saw it in a bookstore one day and I immediately picked it up.
This time Shel reminds me a little of Dr. Seuss.
He creates his animals and has a short poem describing each of them.
Despite my love for Shel and his amazing poetry I found this book a little lacking.
It did not have the appeal or the emotion that I usually get out of Shel's poems.
I would still recommend this book to friends as it is really enjoyable.
Genre: PoetryDate: 11-21Grade Range: 2-5This is a delightful collection of poems by Shel Silverstein. Some of the poems are short and easy while others are longer and have more nonsense words in them like Gleeech or Gheli or Zrbangdraldnk. The illustrations are just as entertaining as the poems are. These are great for a laugh and will be great to introduce kids to poetry.
This is a fun book! I’ve read a lot of Shel Silverstein books before, but I have never seen this one until now. I think this book would be useful in k-4 classrooms. It is a book full of poetry and colors! It would be great to use when working on alliteration, assonance and repetition. It could also be useful in learning phonics.
Perfect book to read at the table over breakfast. My kids really enjoyed the poems and the absurdity that is scattered throughout. The illustrations and silly rhymes kept them engaged and begging for just one more page.
Although a bit creepy at times, the illustrations added so much to the short poems. These poems were humorous and silly which made them enjoyable. The creativity contained in this book is beautiful.
This is Shel Silverstein's first poetry collection. It is full of nonsensical poetry.I thought this book was ok. I enjoy some nonsensical poems but others I don't feel are enjoyable to read. Children may like this book because of the stories and pictures of nonsense characters.
An outstanding collection of Silverstein's early poetry with delightful color pictures. Buy this, read it, share it, and do it all over again. You'll be glad you did.Su Hodgson
Poetry #2: This is a wonderful book by Shel Silverstein. It reminds me of Dr. Seuss's illustrations. This would be a very fun book for children to use during a poetry unit.
Weird and silly. Not his best work but the kids still enjoyed it.
Strange, humorous poems, the author's first published book of poetry.
I liked it, my favorite poem was maine
Not my thing but I'm not the intended audience.
