https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4773313-spy-killer
When he and Varinka escape from immediate peril at the hands of a Chinese Death Squad, she convinces him to help her kill a car full of "Chinese" and pretend to be one to double-cross Lin Wang.
Very pleasant.Lin Wang discovers the double-crossing plot, so Kurt kills him.
After escaping with Anne, he learns she's been hiding another secret: she was Varinka all along!
Some really bad writing includes gems like, "Captain Yang loomed over him like a mountain which has a summer house at its summit." Or consider this description of Lin Wang:But the eyes were the worst.
Unannounced and unordered, a box of books appeared at my school library doorstep from Galaxy press, a "charitable donation." That's always a red flag.
Language like "chop-chop" or "yellow countries" or"round faced, slit eyed proprietor," "yellow devils," or "coolie" might work within the context of the times.
Read through the lens of an educated individual of the 2010's, this book was pretty much trash.
The writing, in terms of the use of figurative language, is sometimes pretty good and at other times crazy bad.
It will be interesting to see if the red flags appeared to them as well.
I received a free copy of this book via the Goodreads First Reads program.Spy Killer comes from the great pulp fiction era of the 1930's and 40's.
Originally published in 1936, this spy story is one of those action-on-every-page books that you don't want to put down until you finish.
A fun romp and worth the read for those who put action and adventure over introspection and purple prose.And yes, it's by that L.
Ron Hubbard.
Long before he wrote Dianetics, Hubbard was churning out the stories for the pulp fiction market.
He puts this knowledge to good use in 'Spy Killer'.An added bonus in this volume is a fascinating foreword by Kevin J Anderson that puts 'Spy Killer' into context with the stories from the Golden Age and also a most interesting unacknowledged (Anderson again perhaps) afterword essay entitled 'L Ron Hubbard and American Pulp Fiction'.
And to counter the words and expressions used in the 1930s and 1940s that 'add unique flavour and authenticity to the tales' there is a glossary that proves most useful.Hard boiled fiction has been described as 'tough and cynical' and 'Spy Killer' certainly lives up to its billing, as it probably had to when written for the readers of the pulps in the 1930s.
A poorly written story BUT a great performance by Galaxy Audio team. I wonder how this great team came up with the idea of performing Hubbard books and call the series Stories from Golden Age! I listened to this while driving and I must say I was really grateful for its company since it alleviated enduring Tehran's traffic and noise. The two stars go to Galaxy Audio for their theatrical performance.
Kurt Reid is a man on the run, accused of a crime he didn't commit.Kurt Reid is angered by what doesn't make him "feel strong or masculine".
Kurt Reid is torn between two beautiful ladies- American ingenue and a Russian femme fatale.
Kurt Reid had seemingly represented every other man's man ideal the author had ever entertained.
(view spoiler)[Surprise, surprise, the two women were one in the same, Kurt Reid had simply failed to notice.
But then,  (hide spoiler)] Kurt Reid is not the brightest bulb.The number of Kurt Reid's in this review bothering you yet?
This review covers the audio book version.
My first audio book with sound effects!
The numerous fist fights, gunfire exchanges, and characters walking through doors really came to life as I listened to this.
The characters all fit into neat little stereotypes.
All that said, it was kind of fun to listen to and laugh at, much as Kurt Reed (not sure if it's just this story or all L.
Ron Hubbard stuff, but if you hear a character's first name, expect the last name to be dropped as well) laughs off basically everything that goes wrong.
Heroes laugh in the face of adversity.

Before all that, though, he apparently was a pretty prolific writer for pulp magazines in the '30s and '40s, writing not only science fiction, but a wide range of adventure fiction.This review is on the Galaxy Press title Spy Killer which I won as a Goodreads giveaway (my first--yay!
Like:There is Takeki [the spy he was supposed to kill], foreigner," said the officer again.Kurt swallowed hard.He was staring at Varinka Savischna [The Russian lady].Four pages later, after some food and conversation:The food gagged him suddenly.
Kurt just happens to attract great action scenes.Compared to my other pulp reads (“Dead Men Kill” and “The Baron of Coyote River”), “Spy Killer” felt a little more gritty, and had more plot twists than 88 pages have ever seen before.
You’ll have to read it to understand what I mean by “somewhat”.A fast read for pulp fiction fans and people who are just generally interested in gunfire, “The Spy Killer” has a classic feel with an action movie style, and makes for a great afternoon dose of adrenaline.Considering naming myself Varinka, EZ Read Staffer Jenifer
This is definitely not the kind of the book I usually read: it’s pulp fiction, it’s a mystery story, and it’s an audio book. I wouldn’t have given this book a second glance if it wasn’t for the free copy I received from Galaxy Press. I really enjoyed the experience. It was a wonderful thriller, and I was so caught up in the action and suspense that I didn’t see the twist coming. The recordings were excellent. Different actors played the characters, and music and sound effects accompanied the narration. Great for a long drive.
Told as if in a 1930's spy movie, Spy Killer by L. Ron Hubbard is full of espionage and intrigue. Killers and spies are not who they seem, the locations are exotic, the men are strong and resourceful and the women, beautiful yet cunning. Historical notes are in included in the back of this fast-paced-action pulp fiction novelette. Thanks to Galaxy Press for this free re-release of this book.
It was slow at first. I can't lie I think I will have to read this from the beginning again because the ending was shocking and I couldn't wrap my head around it. I will say it did get fast paced towards the end probably why I couldn't keep up. It is interesting and if you are into spies, beautiful women and men in distressed it is definitely worth a pick up and read.
This was a fun read. There is an unexpected twist at the end that pulls everything together.I have come to appreciate the short high impact stories of this era. I can see why the "pulp" fiction was so popular during the depression years.Definitely worth giving it a read - highly recommended.
At first, when I saw the book, the cover looked very racist. But I like murder mysteries so I gave it a try. It was OK. The book was not well worded or structured. But it was fast paced from the first page to the last page. Kurt Reid was a very interesting man... and was accused for something he didn't do. The character was not well wrote. There was a lot of unanswered questions.
Pulp is rightSpy Killer is an entertaining story as long as you don't expect too much. A few points stretched believability beyond the breaking point. If you can overlook that, then you will probably enjoy it.
Plus the short length enticed me, I wasn't feeling like jumping into any long books yesterday.
It was still interesting though for me, having the book set there.
Of course the author reflected the times the story was written in and was not very PC, but I'm glad the publisher didn't fix or edit that stuff out like Harlequin did in re-releasing their 60th anniversary vintage collection (which were way more pulp-y and less romance than the Harlequins of today).
This story was nothing amazing, but it entertained me, and was a quick read.
This time with some Oriental spy adventures!
That being said, several of the other books contain 3 to 4 stories under one theme, such as science fiction or western.
This one, "Spy Killer", unfortunately contains only one story of the same title.
There are 121 pages in the book, not counting the forward, and this story makes up barely 89 pages of that!
I would recommend picking up a different book from the series, one with a few stories packed into the pages, or honestly a different author all together.
Para penulis majalah picisan, yang terbaik dari mereka, tidak menulis untuk para kritikus atau berusaha menyenangkan pengiklan yang malu-malu.
Merke menulis tentang apa yang akan terjadi pada kita, bukan tentang apa yang pernah kita alami.Paragraf itu saya ambil dari Pendahuluan yang ada pada buku ini.
Dengan judul Kisah-kisah dari Masa Keemasan Fiksi Picisan, buku ini makin mencuri perhatian saya.Ceritanya saat bongkar-bongkar rak buku pada bagian yang terjauh (ehem) menemukan buku mungil ini tergeletak di bagian belum dibaca.
Otomatis saya langsung berpikir, kenapa buku ini saya beli dan akan dibaca suatu saat, jika belum juga dibaca kenapa masih ada dalam timbunan.
The book Spy Killer by L. Ron Hubbard was an interesting book. This book is a mystery fiction about an American sailor, Kurt Reid, living in Shanghai, China in the late 1930s. He is framed for the murder of the captain of his ship, and forced to go under cover for the Chinese military. While under cover he becomes friends with a very secretive Russian women and an old girlfriend of his. This book has both an internal and external conflict. The internal conflict is this mans choice between two w
This book is a mystery fiction about an American sailor, Kurt Reid, living in Shanghai, China in the late 1930s.
This book has both an internal and external conflict.
I think this book was written pretty well, the action sequences were especially done well, but everything else was not that great.
This book was similar to Sherlock Holmes because it had great mystery and suspense.
Sherlock Holmes and Kurt Reid had some differences but they both made great mystery solvers.
I recommend this book to anyone who likes action and mystery books, and anyone who likes Sherlock Holmes books.
Spy KillerThe Spy Killer is another one of the pulp fiction stories from L.
He's accused of a murder he did not commit, runs into a Russian spy (who happens to be a gorgeous woman, of course) and gets tangled into a conflict between her and a Chinese gangster.
The pulps usually ran these kinds of stories through several magazines, but here the reader gets to read it all in one go.
The reading is fairly easy, and any words used at that time are clarified in a glossary in the back.
He manages to escape and gets caught up in a spy-and-criminal plot involving tensions between the Chinese and Japanese and two beautiful women: an American ingenue and a Russian femme fatale.
I struggled with Hubbard's tendency to refer to every character by their full name every time they appear.
It was so distracting that it's all I can remember of the story -- I know tensions mount and all comes out well in the end for Our Hero, but at this point I can't even tell you if he ends up with either of the women.
Most people--if they know the name at all--know Hubbard as "the Scientology guy." But apparently before Scientology, he wrote a ton of books.
(I'm guessing there's a series about him, because Spy Killer read like being plopped in the middle of someone else's conversation.) To avoid being executed, he's told to kill a traitor...except it turns out the traitor is this woman he just met and who he has feelings for.(It's sort of a long story.)Anyway--this is a fun, short (only 88 pages) story and I would definitely be open to reading more of his stories in the future.
It's also impressive how much action is crammed into those 88 pages.
From then on, he’s either threatened by the Chinese or Japanese conquerors for immediate death.
Ordered by the Chinese to assassinate a Japanese spy, he must penetrate Japanese-controlled area, and avoid capture.
Was his escape actually a set up to throw him into this mess, and if so, will he get out of it with his life?The author is a master storyteller, and weaves a thrilling spy adventure in the heart of China during the Japanese occupation.
Highly recommended to the spy adventure lovers, or just reader who love a good tale.
"Spy Killer" is a classic L.
"Spy Killer" is a well-written thriller, and readers will encounter the mysterious Russian woman Varinka Savischna.
Hubbard's blazing talent is evident in beautiful lines like this: "The steam which rose from her cup of tea was not less illusive than the quality of her eyes." The audio book is outstanding.
Each audio book features a multicast performance with music and sound effects reminiscent of radio's golden age.
Starring the voice talent of Lori Jablons and featuring R.
F. Daley, Shane Johnson, Jim Meskimen, and Tait Ruppert, "Spy Killer" is the perfect audio adventure when your driving long distance.
The kind folks at Galaxy Press have given me a few copies of their audiobooks over the years at semiannual ALA conferences.
I promised one of their booth reps this summer that I'd post reviews of them on Goodreads to repay their generosity."Spy Killer" is one of L.
Ron Hubbard's old pulp novels.
It's a full-cast, two-disc audiobook with music and effects.Unfortunately, this one is kind of dreadful.
It's a senseless mess of double crosses, disguises, and a hero who is alternately brilliant/capable and clueless.The voice acting is fine, but even by pulp standards, this is substandard.
First, I listened to this novel on Audible.
It was my first fiction novel so I'll address those aspects first.
The narrator was very clear but had a tendency to rush during the "action" scenes.
However, there are good long pauses between chapters making for easy stopping points.as for the novel itself, it's fairly cliche.
It may just have been the time it was written, but there seemed to be a bit of racism in it.All in all, it makes a nice mindless diversion for a long trip or a lazy afternoon.
Now he running around Japan trying to find someone to trust.I am not a big fan of pulp mystery but I figured this would be better then Hubbard’s Science Fiction.
I found myself skimming a lot of description because it seemed like one page he was getting away from the girl or mob boss and the next chapter he wanted to find them.
Every chapter was back and forth with such repetitiveness that I didn’t really care what happens to any of them.
Overall it is better than Hubbard’s sci fi but not better then the fantasy.
Kurt Reid has escaped lock up on a ship, and false charges of murder, to jump off to Shanghai.
While there he meets White Russian Varinka Savischana who recruits him on a mysterious mission.Why I picked this book up: Galaxy Press was handing out free sets of books to those that were willing to host one book club at their library and report back with the results.
And only after you have read every single Hardy Boy book twice.
I never read anything by LRH before, and never thought I would want to, but after seeing a few of these pulp stories for sale at Job Lot I was intrigued enough to bring a few home.
the pacing is quick, the action is hot and the plot is twisted.
Just as a pulp story should be.
To rehash the plot would be to give away too many juicy details.
Suffice it to say the book held my interest and kept me turning pages until the unexpected twist ending.
I look forward to more of LRH's adventure stories.
