https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6115240-fire-and-ice
It is still too abstract for me. I have yet to improve and to take one step at a time to mature so that I can comprehend the underlying theme reflected within. I shall re-read and revisit the poem someday :)
"Some say the world will end in fire, Some say in ice. From what I've tasted of desire I hold with those who favor fire. But if it had to perish twice, I think I know enough of hate To know that for destruction ice Is also great And would suffice."Robert Frost is an incredible soulful writer who I thoroughly love the poems of. This one is potent and gorgeous! I love his philosophical nature and that he describes things so elegantly and cleverly.
This is an amazing, booming poem that will touch you to your core and make you contemplate what the poet is saying as well.
Some say the world will end in fire,Some say in ice.From what I've tasted of desireI hold with those who favor fire.But if it had to perish twice,I think I know enough of hateTo say that for destruction iceIs also greatAnd would suffice.
Love this poem!!!
Some say the world will end in fire, Some say in ice. From what I’ve tasted of desire I hold with those who favor fire. But if it had to perish twice, I think I know enough of hate To say that for destruction ice Is also great And would suffice.  Yes... totally agree with my fav poet that the world will not end through burning (fire) or by freezing (ice), but the world can easily be destroyed through HATE! Jealousy & hatred for each other is enough to bring massive destruction!
A great short poem to read once more.
Kimi diyor ATEŞtir dünyanın sonu,Kimi diyor BUZ.HIRSı tattığımdanAteşten yana olanlardanım ben.Ama iki kez yok olsaydı eğer bu dünya,Sanırım NEFRETi de yeterince biliyorum,Buz da muazzam bir yok edicidir, Diyecek kadar.--o--Fire and IceSome say the world will end in fire,Some say in ice.From what I’ve tasted of desireI hold with those who favor fire.But if it had to perish twice,I think I know enough of hateTo say that for destruction iceIs also greatAnd would suffice.
If only all poets would follow the K.I.S.S principle. Just kidding, I actually wish this poem was longer. I like the claim that this poem may have been inspired by Dante's Inferno, with the nine lines of the poem corresponding to the nine rings of hell. Very cool.
"Fire and Ice"By Robert Frost Some say the world will end in fire,Some say in ice.From what I've tasted of desireI hold with those who favour fire.But if it had to perish twice,I think I know enough of hateTo say that for destruction iceIs also greatAnd would suffice.
Beautiful.........This is probably my favourite poem ever. Frost tells us that desire and hatred (fire and ice) are almost similar and interrelated and could easily destroy the world. The poem is very true and applicable in even today's world.
This poem is amazing it really talks about the problms that we face everyday
I love this book! I haven't read it in years. I would check it out from the library at my grade school out over and over again. I just remember loving it.
⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️
This is my favorite poem by my favorite poet.
ONE OF MY FAVORITE POEMS EVER !!! SIMPLY LOVE IT 4 ITS SUCCINTNESS , AND THE SIMPLE BEAUTY OF TRUTH IT REVEALS !!!
Great poem! Truly my favorite I can't think of a single poetry assignment I've ever done in school that i don't use this as a poem!!!
