https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44153.Dirty_Snow
Now I can see why George Simenon thought himself worthy of the Nobel Prize and resented publishers and literati who labeled him a hack catering to the clamoring, detective fiction-loving rabble.In the first chapter we learn Frank links sex with violence and feels inferior to other, slightly older men who have committed murders, thus Frank plans to murder his first man, a fat officer in the army of occupation known as the Eunuch who is drinking in a bar, murder him with a knife that very evening as a kind of rite of passage.
- Ladies and gentlemen, watch carefully.
Here's Frank, a young punk who lives in his mother's brothel in occupied France.
He lies, drinks, steals, does black market business with the German officers, commits murder just for fun.
Yes, feel free to touch him, he fucks his mother's girls every night while treating them like shit and is also trying to seduce the 16 year old virgin who lives across the hall.Are you still watching...
you may check that there is nothing up my sleeve...
Dirty Snow: a withering parade of apathy, it languishes and eventually disintegrates in a desolate gray landscape of inscrutable uncertainty.
(A perfect summer beach read.) Eighteen-year-old Frank, the fiercely vacant antihero, is a callous, arrogant thug.
This desire, of course, reveals that he isn’t quite as indifferent as he likes to think he is.
It takes him a while to figure this out.
By the time he does, it’s too late.
“Frank had done what he wanted to do.
He had rounded the cape.
He had looked at the other side.
He hadn’t seen what he expected to see.
Who cared?”
Frankly (ho-ho) if I knew a person like Frank, I would stay far away from him; and if I couldn’t do that, I would probably try to figure out some way of eliminating him from my environment, like you eliminate poison ivy from your backyard.You did admit that you found something interesting in the book, didn’t you?Yes. The story line itself was certainly interesting enough to keep me reading, at least in the sense that I did continue to wonder what the outcome of this repellant chain of events would be.
ENGLISH (Dirty Snow) / ITALIANONoir colors for this journey into the abyss of the 19-year-old Frank Friedmaier.
Do you remember or have you known Rodiòn Romànovič Raskòl'nikov, the troubled 23-year-old protagonist of Crime and Punishment?
Well, it seems that the Frank Friedmaier's dark path is son of Fyodor Dostoyevsky, when the aim is to describe the pain appropriate to the man's salvation.
Ebbene, si direbbe che il percorso oscuro di Frank Friedmaier sia figlio di quel gigantesco Fyodor Dostoyevsky, insuperabile quando si tratta di descrivere la sofferenza funzionale alla salvezza dell'individuo.
Rimorso e pentimento caratterizzano Raskòl'nikov, menefreghismo e tranquilla accettazione del proprio destino appartengono invece a Friedmaier.
For the protagonist, Frank, military occupation simply means increased opportunity.
In other words, the only reason you don’t betray other people is for fear of being betrayed by them.” The skill, therefore, is to be the first to betray.On second or third thought, could it be that most of us occupy this middle ground of exploitative participation in the corporate society which itself acts as an occupational force in our midst?
Murder and other illegalities may be off limits, but betrayal in the corporate world comes just as easily as it does for Frank in occupied territory.
A lot of hand wringing and soul searching went into this rating (or at least two minutes' worth), but in the end I concluded that the only quality Dirty Snow lacks is that ineffable something-or-other that makes a novel grab you by the balls and shout, 'I'm a five star book, damn it!
Entirely lacking in purpose, Frank thieves and murders without moral compunction; but his crimes are less profit-motivated or purely sadistic than they are strange, floundering assertions of self in an arbitrary and morally convoluted world.
Vollmann opines "As technology and corporatism impel us more and more to treat one another like things, loyalty and decency approach irrelevance, except between intimates, and sometimes even then." Dirty Snow is certainly a book that compels a reader to feel much the same as WTV does about what happens to the human soul in the trash compactor crush of Money and Civilization - but there are many books that tell this story.
Simenon puts us in the mind of a creature that - by the end of the story - we find real discomfort in just how human a monster can be.
Son and chief procurer of the local brothelkeeper, his mother, Frank is nineteen years old and a sociopath of the first order.
The men Frank admires the most are black marketeers, thieves, and murderers, men who brag about snuffing women during sex.
Frank is fascinated by Holst.
When he finally condescends to approach Holst’s daughter, Sissy--Frank, sadly, is her first love--it is only to question her at length about her father.
Second only to The Strangers in the House, it is my favorite Simenon.
Dirty Snow is my second favorite Simenon, outranked only by The Strangers In The House.
The writer Georges Simenon was a Belgian (I thought he was French!) author who was incredibly prolific in creating noir crime novels and other books that delved into the darkness of the human psyche.
This one is set in Belgium, and now that a friend kindly let me know that this is Simenon's home country, things have clicked for me - a full three days after finishing!In our group discussion, I pondered if writing all of those crime stories over the years is what led Simenon to go further into the human psyche with his other novels, essentially looking at the why behind certain crimes or certain mindsets.

Ignore the original review (below).
It’s garbage.
It’s clear now that I didn’t understand the book at all on the first read.
It was my first Simenon (I think), and I read it too quickly, without any patience.
The book is much richer and deeper than I had realized.Original Review: This is quite brilliant...
Still, Simenon is clearly a much more important writer than I had ever imagined him to be.
Finally, the treatment of sexuality is quite robust -- hardly surprising, again, given Simenon's own propensities.
Certainly, this is a dark read and not an easy one, in which the author does not hesitate to tell the story of a cast of characters without any obvious redeeming features.The main character of this novel is a young man named Frank Friedmaier, whose mother runs a brothel.
Not only for their means of living, pandering to the whims of the occupiers, but because they have ample means to heat their apartment, as well as plenty of food.Frank is a young man who is eager to make a name for himself and, at the very beginning of the book, he kills a man outside a bar; an action viewed by one of the neighbours, Gerhardt Holst, whose daughter is in love with Frank.

Ανατόμος της ανθρώπινης ψυχής όπως είναι και δη των ανθρώπων του περιθωρίου, περιγράφοντας την πορεία του πρωταγωνιστή προς το μοιραίο ταυτόχρονα σκιαγραφεί το ζοφερό κλίμα που πλανάται πάνω Ευρώπη κατά την διάρκεια του Β' Παγκοσμίου πολέμου, περίοδος που η λέξη άνθρωπος σήμαινε ελάχιστα.
Ο πρωταγωνιστής χωρίς συναισθήματα, χωρίς σκοπό, έρμαιο μονάχα των ενστίκτων του σαν μοναχικός λύκος , προβαίνει σε ακραίες πράξεις, διώχνει και τιμωρεί οποιωνδήποτε πάει του εκμαιεύσει κάποιο συναίσθημα, επιδιώκοντας να συμβεί αυτό το "κάτι" που θα νοηματοδοτήσει την ύπαρξη του.
Ο simenon είναι απαισιόδοξος για το ανθρώπινο είδος αλλά ταυτόχρονα βαθιά ουμανιστής μέσω της προσπάθειας τους κατανόησης της ανθρώπινης κατάστασης σε ακραίες συνθήκες.
Frank is also insensitive to the women in his life, his mother included, and constantly takes advantage of the young women in his mother's "employ," totally heedless of any thoughts or feelings that the women might have.
Frank is particularly insensitive to a young female neighbor who, for some inexplicable reason, has a crush on him.
We never really know for sure the forces that have combined to make Frank the young man that he has become.
Was it the other low-lifes with whom he associated or some combination thereof?Whatever the case, it's interesting in a sick sort of way to watch the progress of Frank's life through the period covered by the book.
Allegations of the dehumanizing meta-force of war on the psyche have been made elsewhere: I do not concur.
The point where you realise you’ve achieved all you’re going to achieve, and you’re too weary to start a new field, when food is no longer succulent and the colour spectrum reflects only sepia and night and day are interchangeable quantities and emotions only come in one dimension: mono, and contact with other humans is unendurable.
The Frank-Holst juxtaposition is something else entirely.
The two men are polar opposites: Frank is a dissipated, uneducated, ennui-ed, aimless machinator, who has reached the limits of his potentiality and subconsciously realises this.
is frank friedmaier the darkest character ever created in fiction?
set in wwii occupied city, we don;t know where exactly, nor by whom, but DO know the occupation has succeeded in turning each and every soul into a brutal monster.
there has been much talk about what simenon was trying to accomplish with this novel, but one thing for sure to me is that in inhuman situations people rise to the occasion and turn into the monsters we don't want to think about if possible.
I can't do better in a review than the Goodreads description, which says it all. A dark, hopeless book with a despicable main character, who described himself at the end as "a piece of shit" to his interrogators, it's also a fascinating look at the interior of his mind, shallow as it may be.This is my first Georges Simenon novel, not one of his Inspector Maigret series, but I'm a new fan.
Gerçekten sıradışı bir kitap. Konusu çok orijinal gelmeyebilir ilk anda, ancak okudukça nasıl bir derinlikle konunun ilginç bir yöne kaydığını göreceksiniz. Polisiye romanları ile tanınan Simenon bu eserinde farklı bir tarz izlemiş, gerçi yine cinayetler, sorgular, işkenceler gibi unsurlar kitapta yer alsa da farklı mekan ve kişiler kullanarak klasik polisiyeden ayırmış. Yalnızlık duygusu içindeki bir insanın ruh halini çok güzel aktarıyor. Hapisteki sorgulamalar insanın dayanma gücü hakkında ilginç saptamalar içeriyor ve heyecanla okunuyor. Özellikle soru cümlelerinin varlığı hem merak duygusunu arttırıyor hem de okuru düşünmeye sevkediyor. Sonu da kitabın akışına uygun olarak düşündürerek ve sorgulayarak bitiyor.
Avendo sempre vissuto in un ambiente ai limiti estremi della moralità e del rispetto per l'essere umano (si pensi, solo per far un esempio, al suo spiare da adolescente nelle stanze delle hostess, anch'esse adolescenti, e dei loro clienti, non più adolescenti), Frank si rende conto che per lui il passaggio alla maturità non può essere simile a quello di tutti gli altri, sua madre non è simile a quella di tutti gli altri, ma per forza di cose deve raggiungere il culmine delle situazioni che ha sempre vissuto, deve compiere un assassinio per sporcarsi definitivamente, per superare il confine tra lui e gli altri.
Having read one Inspector Maigret book, I did not understand how favorably Simenon measures next to any other writer of the 20th century.
Almost 200 books is a state of authorship that leads to mixed results, but as a writer, Simenon's never a bore - he's a chronicler, an entertainer, a shifter, a grave digger, an adventurer, a truth seeker, a cruel-cruel eye - a craftsman's craftsman.
Dirty Snow is not a Maigret money maker, not a commercial novel, but one of Simenon's 'literary' works; and what a delight it is to read.
I intend to read as much Simenon as I can, folding in the Maigret among the heavier books like Dirty Snow.
This snow is black. No reparation for wrong, just existentialism brimmed with an intensely atmospheric psychological crime noir that makes you bleed with a lost and lonely beastly character who is brutal but never impolite. Written at a phenomenal pace, this is an exhilarating and terrifying book that will make you feel gloomy when you start reading it, leave you all torn up when it's over, and then you start looking for something that will help you slow down your thoughts.
Such a vile fucking book that by the end, notwithstanding Vollman's excellent afterward that allows a bit of introspective breathing, you feel like staying indoors quietly soaking in a tub of rubbing alcohol. Or drinking it. Simenon created with Frank F. a stunning portrayal of whatever kind of human Frank F. is supposed to be. Dirty Snow is about as dark as they get.
Of Simenon's important - that is, non-Maigret - work, this is the finest example. P-leeease don't think that because who-dunnits aren't your thing that this side of Simenon is to be dismissed. The man is a literary giant of the twentieth century. Honestly.
The mood is claustrophobic, entirely in the head of a young man feeling his oats in an occupied European city during the Second World War. It was published soon after the end of the war, thus has little of its historical context.
Without hope, and a fatalistic view of life, Frank is called in by either the Occupying police, or one of the local authorities, and he spends the rest of the book in confinement being tortured by an indefatigable old gentleman.
130: Timo, the owner of the drinking establishment, tries to warn the young cocky Frank that there is risk afoot and more than meets the eye: “’Some of them seem powerful, and maybe for the moment they are.
Have been recommended other books by the author in the past and just couldn't gel with them for some reason. But this book had one of the most repulsive and compelling characters I've ever come across in my reading life....Frank. It's Frank's lack of fear that makes him such a chilling, complex and frightening character.A dark and bleak tale of woe, a touch of mystery (I've been wondering which character "dobbed") a country and system under Occupation and the lengths a person will go to survive.
A very brutal and ice cold book. The fate of the protagonist, 19-year old Frank who is a truly despicable young man, cannot end in any other way than what his devastating actions created. Another astonishing roman dur of Simenon!
Main Street was about the possible effects, or the difficulties of 'civilising' a 'backwoods' community, charming and sad at the same time, the (First World) war a distant backdrop.
The prison stuff reminded me a little of 'Hard rain Falling' although they are otherwise very different.I'm at work and wasn't going to write this review until later when I can get some quotes together, but I just finished it on the train this morning and had to write something down about how the book had got straight into me like some mainlined drug.
Yazarın okuduğum ilk romanıydı , hatta tanımıyordum bile kendisini ama goodreads sağolsun yeni bir yazarla daha tanışmamı sağladı.
Bu bilgi de çok ilgi çekici geldi , inanılmaz bir hız ve üretkenlik gerçekten, tebrik etmek lazım.Roman 2.
Savaş sırasında şartların zorlaşmasıyla hayatlar çok farklı yaşanıyor, bu zorluğu kitap boyunca hissettirmiş yazar.
Roman Frank isimli genç ve sert bir karakter üzerinden yürüyor.
Frank tam bir anti kahraman.
Romanın devamında Frank düşmüş olduğu durumdan dolayı psikolojik olarak çözülmeye başlıyor ve o sert çocuk gidiyor , yerine zayıf, vazgeçmiş bir karakter geliyor.
Sonuç olarak savaş zayıf ya da güçlü herkesi bir şekilde yenilgiye uğratıyor.
