https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85921.For_Marx
Western Marxists were turning to the work of the young Marx in order to insist that the spirit of Marx's philosophy was ideologically humanist.
Rather, insisted Althusser, the work of the young Marx had to be subjected to the Marxist principles of ideological development that stated that the meaning of an ideology does not depend on its relation to "truth" but rather its relation to the social structure in which it developed and therefore, to understand an ideological position, one would have to look at the social conditions facing the thinker, and therefor the context of the thinker's intellectual development, as (s)he was writing any one piece.
Just the opposite, he was affirming that it's profoundly misguided to ever expect to find a 'science' of human meaning along the lines of the physical sciences.
By contrast, Althusser is extremely insistent that Marxism is a science.
Somewhat like Thomas Kuhn in The Structure of Scientific Revolutions; but then Kuhn's great book did serious damage to the prestige of science, for suggesting science was more a series of semi-random mutations than cumulative progress towards the truth.
Anyway, my own feeling is that Marxism doesn't stand or fall with being a science.
That said, I did find the texts easier as I went through; whether that's something to do with them, or just me getting used to Althusser's style, I can't say.Nevertheless, I am sure this is a book which would reward re-reading, as there were a number of points which I did find helpful on questions like base/superstructure, although I think I'd already come into contact with a number of the key points filtered through Raymond Williams.
I am quite convinced by the argument about the Young Marx and the epistemological break, and I think I agree that this term is more useful than Hegelian terms like supersession etc; again, though, I found Moufawad-Paul's presentation of comparable arguments much easier-going!
Perhaps his most famous one is the "epistemological break", a term inherited from Bachelard, that posits in 1845 during the German Ideology Marx broke off from his Kantian-Fichtean/Feuerbachian roots and started developing historical and dialectical materialism.
To my knowledge it is essentially the uneven development of contradictions in the "complex whole" (totality?).
Seems to me that Generality I is the "abstract, part-ideological, part-scientific....raw material of the science", Generality II is the "theory of the science at a given moment" and Generality III is the "concrete, scientific generalities that are produced".
Although the chatter about this book is that you just have to drag it along until you reach "Marxism and Humanism", the last essay, and then the whole thing becomes clear, is a little misleading. The most challenging of essays collected here is "On the Materialist Dialectic" which also contains the most rigorous philosophical effort in the book. "Contradiction and Overdetermination", "Marxism and Humanism" and "On the Materialistic Dialectic" should be the order to read the three most important essays in this collection in my opinion.
After re-reading that distiction multiple times, I have to confess that I do not understand.Althusser takes it as given that Marxist historical materialism is a science: the science of history.
Maybe, but he gives no examples so it was hard (for me) to tell.At another level, in the philosophy of science there have been over recent centuries a deal of work done on the foundations of science, or of knowledge about the world more generally.
Althusser takes this as established fact (or is it somehow an analytical statement), and goes on to base a justification for his claim of "over-determination" on this theory of dominant contradictions and aspects.
Unreadable rubbish that tries to reduce Marx to a structuralist sociology. A continuation of Stalinism's attack on Marxism and the worst thing to happen to social analysis and critical theory since Uncle Joe came to power in person.
Althusser is a great and lively writer. Especially loved the chapters on the young marx and on humanism.
As far as I can tell here Althusser wants to make a theoretical approach to Marxian materialism.
By the time of The German Ideology, and certainly by the time of Capital, Marx held that the distribution of wealth determines the quality or kinds of philosophy dominant in society.
But there can be no sense or understanding of materialism without philosophy.
This is what Althusser is after: prior philosophy and prior ideology--with a view to a future Marxist philosophy.
At all times For Marx is a work in progress – an approach to philosophy, or a series of philosophies made to delineate the very notion of philosophy.
Better written than Lenin and Philosophy, and much more concise when you get to the bottom of all his arguments.
Definitely one of the greatest minds of the 20th century, yet it's sad to think that only now is he getting recognition for his works in academia and social movements.
I would also recommend it for anybody interested in delving into Foucault, Derrida, Deluze, etc.
as these were his students or peers at one point (much of his argumentation on the need to understand structure, theory, "problematic" questions presupposing certain answers [a reason why Althusser calls for an understanding of ideological ruptures, especially between Hegel and Marx] influenced these writers in a variety of different ways).
This is an excellent introduction to the thought of Althusser and what he was on about.
And, as cannot be said for every book of essays, each successive essay is better than the previous.
The crowning essay is probably "Dialectical Materialism," but I prefer "Marxism and Humanism." In the latter, Althusser really lays out the argument that ideology is ALWAYS present, which is a notion many who might attempt to contrast "ideology" with "pragmatism" might have never even thought about.
It reads a little dry (but it's "scientific" Marxism so what can one expect?), but it's utterly readable.
I wish Lacan were this readable.
I have no idea how to 'rate' this one - oh so brilliant; oh so wrong! So I'm going to compromise between 5 stars for its efflorescent brilliance and 1 star for its obscurantist density (and profound structuralist errors). Despite all that, it remains one of those that should be to-read lists, but with all understanding that the list owner is unlikely to get to it.William West's review on this page does the job for me; a really good outline of the book, its case and why it matters. I'll defer to that.
Book was a little to caught up in cold war thought, which for me is a turn off due to the clouding of effective analysis by the split between the supposed "Democratic West" and "Communist East".However, there is some interesting analysis of Marx in his early years compared against his later years, there is also some analysis on Engels worth reading. Near the middle there is analysis of a play which gives insight to Marxian thought. Overall, it was a slow read.
Very theory-heavy but I liked it
As far as short but intensely detailed books on Marxist theory go, this is pretty good. As far as the rigour of analysis goes it is second to none. However I couldn't commit as much time to it as I wished and so my enjoyment of it wasn't as full as it could have been. Still a cracking bit of work- worth reading for philosphers, Marxists or those who wish to understand the history of leftist thought.
Althusser here is at his best, at least in his early period. Using structural causality to better explain determination in the sphere of the social (a good move away for too much focus on models of strict heirarchy and oppression). Also, maintaining an uneasy balance between the influences of Spinoza and Hegel on Marx.
This was a nice collection of essays that does really shake off some of the more standard and sloganistic Marxist positions. He exposes all that "on its head" shenanigans as nothing but simplistic nonsense.Also, I do agree with a lot of Althusser's views on the 1844 Manuscripts and the misguided adoration they seem to garner from Humanist Marxists.
I didn't finish all of it yet, but Althusser is really helping me to understand: how to pull Marx away from Hegel. How to read early Marx as ideology, as a whole, from the perspective of later Marxist theory. All written with a lot of love.
Althusser has had such an influence on my thinking. If you have to read anything by him I recommend 'Contradiction and Overdetermination', 'On the Materialist Dialectic' & 'Marxism and Humanism' from this collection. Gives a good sketch of his thought imo.
sa paghahanap sa althusser ng 21st, ang nakikita lang ay ang kasabikan noong 60s patungong Paris Commune. sarap mag-consider kung sino ang pwedeng althusser of the philippines, pero haanen! Nah! Inhustisya para kua louis at sa kung sinumang pinoy na tatabihan
this 1965 book gives key pointers for sorting out and thinking through and reformulating some theoretical questions about the present and recent history which have been plaguing me in the past year or two.
Louis Althusser is a great philosopical analyser. His book should, on Marx's, better be read not only for the philosopher, but for the academicus as well as it is a fundamental basis to uncover how the global capitalists are nowdays.
The explanation of dialectics is sort of skimpy, but I really enjoyed the last chapter Marxism and Humanism. After reading the Early Manuscripts by Karl Marx a few days prior, this text seemed to really go nicely with those 'humanist' writings.
The delicacy and theoretical rigor of Althusser's texts bring me joy. Althusser helped me get marx in his full multiplicity, and then love him, properly.
Althusser is as dry as the bread in a Stalinist food line. But not bad ;)
