https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48235.Obscure_Destinies
This group contains three rather long short stories that are vintage Willa Cather. They are set in the Great American Plains which produced, I think, some of her best stories. Similar themes thread through this group and of course they offer us the pleasure of reading one of the best American writers of the 20th century.
Interesting nuggets from a time when the gold standard was changing.
Cather nails the personalities of those in the family, business, or are comrades from a single town.
These succinct tales nail the late middle age adults and those in old age (around 65 as detailed)while they are saying their own forms of goodbye to life.
The interactions between the people- those myriad of bonds and unspoken answers to needs (physical, mental, and emotional)are sublimely told here.
Rural and small town life on the prairie of her girlhood and younger life!These may have been exercises for further development into books or novella length?
I have stated before that I adore stories that are character driven and I am here to tell you that this short story freak is so satiated right now!
But in the city, all the foulness and misery and brutality of your neighbors was part of your life.""To be pitied was the deepest hurt anybody could know.""Invested; that was a word men always held over women, Mrs. Harris thought, and it always meant they could have none of their own money.
This is a use case scenario test to see if an apparently infamous pop up screen exhorting purchase in a Jungle Environment occurs. (The title should explain the choice of book for this experiment). Thus far nothing unToward a River has occurred. Comments will contain further results after the initial saving.
This story is said to be semi-autobiographical.Two Friends: A child describes the personalities and conversations of two men who inadvertently taught her a lot about adults, local politics, life in and around town, and dignity.
Children used to sit quietly while adults talked (my sister and I spent many hours overhearing our parents converse with friends and neighbors), and in so doing we learned.
I suspect that doesn't happen much anymore.Cather describes her reason for choosing these two men:I liked to listen to those two because theirs was the only 'conversation' one could hear about the streets.
Each novella includes the twilights of the main character's lives, reflecting Cather's own stage of her life as she wrote them."Neighbor Rosicky" starts with Rosicky's doctor telling him that he has a bad heart, that he needs to slow down and let his grown sons take over the more demanding duties of the family farm.
This impression is cemented by ending's telling of Rosicky's kindness to his daughter in the law who had just moved from town to live on the isolated farm with her young child and husband"Old Mrs, Harris" alternates between narratives from Mrs. Harris's neighbor, her grandaughter, Mrs. Harris herself and a third person description of life in the small farm town, most notably a summer's church social.
I'm a big fan of Willa Cather, but this one is pretty average. It has three short stories and isn't very long and, while I appreciate the thematic connections between the stories, I didn't really feel like the characters really came alive. Neighbor Rosicky, the first story, is the best one, I'd say. Probably the only one really worth reading.
"Nothing in the world, not snow mountains or blue seas, is so beautiful in moonlight as the soft, dry summer roads in a farming country, roads where the white dust falls back from the slow wagon-wheel."From the dust jacket of this edition: "In the three stories that make up this volume Willa Cather returned with fresh enthusiasm to the Western scene of her earlier novels."
This is a volume best read in print. I own a copy of Obscured Destinies in iBooks. I read portions of the book electronically and in a library print copy. While reading using the iPhone was convenient, reading Obscured Destinies in print created an experience.
I love this book. It reminds me of what growing up in a small, country town is like.
Always such sad, but real stories of people and their lives. Even in the 1930's Willa Cather understood the lives and needs of women, and the roadblocks to becoming who they were meant to be.
Clear, straightforward writing, but increasingly complex human relationships.
Three short stories in here- took me back to a simpler time. Neighbour Rosicky was my favorite, Ild Mira. Harris was good and Two Friends showed the dangers of sharing politics with a best friend.
Like everything Willa Cather wrote, this book is awesome.
1. Neighbour Rosicky  (1928) — novelette Story about an old Bohemian farmer.
The doctor says it's his heart and that Rosicky shouldn't do anymore heavy work.
Rosicky worries about his oldest son, Rudolph, who has married an American girl, Polly.
He learns that Polly has a good heart and all will be well.
2.  Old Mrs. Harris  (1931) — short novella Old Mrs. Harris was a Southern lady, transported to the west by her daughter and son-in-law.
Old Mrs. Harris had to come up with a solution that would also save Victoria's pride.
“They were comfortable, they were out of debt, but they didn’t get much ahead.
When he made a remark, it not only meant something, but sounded like something--sounded like the thing it meant" (206)."The tone was courteous but cold; relentless as the multiplication table" (207)."I liked to listen to those two because theirs was the only 'conversation' one could hear about the streets.
This title contains three short stories by Cather. Each story tells the destiny of an "obscure" person, those folks whom we all know but whom we rarely pay very much attention to, their lives and death, but yet the common thread they weave in our lives.This is the first time I've read Cather since I've been in an American Lit class in college. I'd forgotten about her concise writing style and voice. These are stories I'd recommend for everyone. (If I taught high school literature, I would require the students to read these three short stories.)
Hadn't read Willa Cather in a while, so I thought I might now think her too quaint. But she ain't. Dry, closely-watched, gentle stories of self-sacrifice, satisficing, and heartache. Sometimes she handles the characters a little too gently (hence the quaint), but she's very good at clearly differentiating points of view--and describing the dust and the evening so that you wish you were there. Best in this is the longest--"Old Mrs. Harris."
I always learn something new when I read her stories. I never really thought much about the different types/ethnicities of the people living in the new American west. how they related to one another in the daily lives fascinated me. My favorite quote, " All countries were beautiful to Mr. Rosen. He carried a country of his own in his mind, and was able to unfold it like a tent in any wilderness." She transports me!
Willa Cather is one of my favorite authors, and certainly my favorite American writer. These novellas rank among her greatest writing-- and in particular, Old Mrs. Harris, is haunting as only Cather knows how to haunt. I cried when I read it for the first time, and I still cry when I read it again.
Willa Cather...there is nothing more to say. Her stories are profound, immense, dark, beautiful, captivating...so capturing every nuance of the human spirit with such amazing language. This collection is absolutely no exception.
Four and a half stars for this collection of three novellas, my first Willa Cather stories. They are each quiet, sad, joyful, wistfully nostalgic stories of rural America, long ago. Cather's understanding of people's hearts is clear, gentle and hopeful.
I have to remind myself that she wrote these stories nearly 80 years ago. These were simpler times and yet the core of the stories are timeless. I felt for the characters and how their lives turned out based on society's expectations or a simple decision about which path to take.
As always, Cather's profiles of people and their places, the enduring and ephemeral relationships between them, are never sentimental, always emotional, and generally astounding.
A man who loves too much? Two robber barons? An old frontierswoman? Shrug.
After having reAD My antonia I was eager to read more stories based in the Nebraska Praorie. these three stories held and stroked my imagination , further in such a wonderfull pioneering setting.
Love Willa Cather stories.
Love Willa Cather!
Nostalgic, cleverly written book, where the words capture the imagination more so than the actual stories. In two words; simply beautiful.
Willa Cather always writes something worth reading. I am so intrigued by her ability to made daily lives seem so interesting. I am always riveted by her characters.
