https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6687.Charlie_and_the_Great_Glass_Elevator
English (Charlie and the Great Glass Elevator) / ItalianoThe Charlie and the Chocolate Factory's sequel starts exactly frome where we were at the end of the previous adventure, that is in the glass elevator that should bring Charlie Bucket and all his family (and Mr. Wonka of course), to the chocolate factory.
Who has loved Charlie and the Chocolate Factory will probably be disappointed by this sequel (not me!), however some brilliant idea still grab the attention of younger readers.Vote: 7Il seguito de La fabbrica di cioccolato, inizia esattamente dove eravamo arrivati al termine della precedente avventura, ossia nell’ascensore di cristallo che dovrebbe portare Charlie Bucket e tutta la sua famiglia (e ovviamente il signor Wonka), alla fabbrica di cioccolato.
I really think Wonka needs to stick with his Chocolate Factory...Maybe it's just me...but this one just didn't have the same spark as Charlie and the Chocolate Factory. “Hooray!" said the Chief of the Army. "Let's blow everyone up! Bang-bang! Bang-bang!”   We last left Charlie and his family soaring up into the sky in the great glass elevator. They're about to start their next big adventure, with their feet firmly planted in the sky.Physics aside, the Bucket Family and Willy Wonka putter around
I really think Wonka needs to stick with his Chocolate Factory...Maybe it's just me...but this one just didn't have the same spark as Charlie and the Chocolate Factory.
We last left Charlie and his family soaring up into the sky in the great glass elevator.
They're about to start their next big adventure, with their feet firmly planted in the sky.Physics aside, the Bucket Family and Willy Wonka putter around rather amusingly until they spot a space station hotel.
A little nonsense now and then, is relished by the wisest men,” Mr. Wonka said.
I certainly couldn't have predicted where this was going but was pleasantly surprised by the ending.
Welcome aboard Wonka Air Flight SOS-911, a non-stop Glass Elevator service from The Chocolate Factory to the Space Hotel - USA.
If there is anything we can do to make your flight more enjoyable, let us know and thank you for choosing Wonka Air!
First, I'd like to welcome the following people onboard Wonka Air Flight SOS-911: Charlie Bucket, Mr. and Mrs. Bucket, Grandma Josephine, Grandpa Joe, Grandma Georgina and Grandpa George.
On behalf of Wonka Air and the entire non-existent crew, I would like to thank you for joining us on this trip.
misunderstanding occurred because the people from the glass elevator wanted to be the first guests in the brand new glorious Space Hotel, these aliens from a planet millions of light- years away got there before, unwelcome though since not one is paying a dime, for accommodations, to be fair, the same applies equally, to the beings from the chocolate factory, however Mr. Wonka has plenty of money, he is definitely not a gatecrasher he says ...and will pay all expenses incurred.
.yet will be soon...Houston thinks they the astronauts , have gone completely nuts describing the action, as the undaunted Willy Wonka fights back, additionally the old, petrified people inside the glass elevator, help if possible.
Not one he highly recommends, but here is a slightly updated version of my original review:After the hair-raising adventure that Charlie Bucket underwent in the opening novel, Dahl is ready to entertain young readers again.
With Willy Wonka and Grandpa Joe helping at the controls, Charlie welcomes Mr. and Mrs. Bucket, Grandpa George, and Grandmas Josephine and Georgina into the machine before it blasted off.
Wonka is eager to show off the elevator's prowess, blasting it into space, where the group is spotted by a US rocket ship full of astronauts.
It is the sequel to Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, continuing the story of young Charlie Bucket and chocolatier Willy Wonka as they travel in the Great Glass Elevator.
Whereupon Willy Wonka returns the Elevator with the shuttle to Earth, the monsters are incinerated in the atmosphere.
Mr Wonka releases the shuttle, and the Elevator then crashes down through the roof of the chocolate factory.
چارلی و پدر و مادر و مامان بزرگها و بابابزرگهایش، سوار آسانسور اسرارآمیز فضایی آقای وانکا میشوند.
I just discovered Charlie and the Great Glass Elevator was written the year I was born.
1972 seemed to be the year of the fanciful, magical and/or pastoral, nature-oriented kids' book: Watership Down, All Creatures Great and Small, Tales of a Fourth Grade Nothing, Frog and Toad #2, Earthsea Cycle #3.This might explain a few things about me...but then again it more likely has a whole lot more to say about where the American reading public's mind was at the time: fully ensconced in Vietnam and sick of it.
It does not however pick up and carry on the same level of fantastical fun and frivolity.
The Big differences between “Chocolate Factory” and “…Glass Elevator” is that former is silly with a point and congruent within itself, and the latter is pointlessly silly and seems full of discrepancies.
In “…Chocolate Factory” there was a clearly developed plot and moral in amongst all that silliness, but in “…Glass Elevator” I have no idea why it went the way it did.
Needless to say, young children, for whom this book was intended, will probably enjoy the silly imagination of this story, but adults like me probably won’t like it so much.
Unlike it's predecessor, Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, this book is probably a bit too far-fetched for it to grab the same amount of attention.
It's an odd little book-it has some good moments and is written much in the same way as the first book-and his many others-but it definitely has it's faults.Of-the-time-racism was probably the biggest one.
It's difficult to critique something that was "okay" at the time of the book being published, but I can't help but think that perhaps that, along with the quite-too-much-whimsy storyline has contributed to this one being almost forgotten.
I originally read Charlie and the Chocolate factory when I was in middle school.
I thought it was about time to finally read the second book.Charlie and the Great Glass Elevator was a very interesting book.
More than half of the book takes place in space and in an elevator.
It felt like Roald Dahl used Charlie, his family and Willie Wanka as the characters in that "short story" because he didn't want to have to create background information on new people.Then for the second half of the book they go back to the Factory and the Umpa Lumpas sang multiple songs.
I remember as a kid being quite disappointed by this book, having so thoroughly loved Charlie and the Chocolate Factory.
I wasn't into anything smacking of sci-fi or space travel as a kid.
This book is weird.
Willy Wonka could stand in for Zaphod Beeblebrox, Charlie would be Arthur Dent, and Grandmas Josephine and Georgina could co-star as Marvin the pessimistic robot.
The rest of the book after they crash back into the Chocolate Factory is a completely different story about pills Willy Wonka has invented that can add to or subtract from your age.
The humor and subtext is just too subtle for kids.
"A little nonsense now and then is relished by the wisest men."Ok, the recipe for Wonka-vite is darling and cleverAll-in-all i did not enjoy this novelette as much as his others. I felt the pieces were slightly disjointed. Although Wonka's sarcastic comments are much appreciated, Grandma Georgina was not an enjoyable character. And not enough Charlie! The president was just ridiculous. I'm interested in reading all of Dahl's pieces, so at least I got this one out of the way.2017 Reading Challenge: has illustrations
Ni prineti Čarliju i fabrici čokolade. Em se raspada u dva ne baš povezana dela (iako se sve dešava u toku nekoliko sati), em se Vonka ponaša još gore nego u prvoj knjizi, em ima ubačenu verovatno najodvratniju poučnu poemu koju sam čitala još od vremena Štruvelpetera - o devojčici koja je odjednom pojela sve bakine zalihe laksativa jer je mislila da su bombone. Prosto... nesmešno.
This is the only Dahl book I have read to date that did not interest me in the least.
and contrived badly.The first half of the book placed our hero and Mr. Wonka in space.
The crew returned to the chocolate factory.
It was even worse than that!I've read that Dahl began a third installment where the cast headed off to the White House but only completed a single chapter.
Really, what is the motivation of a young English boy who now owns a marvelous chocolate factory to go to America and take in a dotty president as depicted here?A waste of my time reading this.
And to think, I am a Dahl fan!
A direct sequel to Chocolate Factory, part space adventure part goofy antics this follow up is enjoyable enough for those who enjoy Wonka’s character.I practically enjoyed the Vermicious Knids and the rejuvenation pills in the second half of the book.I couldn’t imagine this story working with any other characters.
I don't think Nina liked this one as much as the original. She had trouble paying attention until they got back to the Chocolate Factory. Verdict: Needs more candy.
This book should not have been written. I thought it was a pointless book, where it could be an add on to the end of the first book.
This was such a fun story! I listened to the audiobook via Overdrive and the narrator did a fantastic job bringing the characters to life! It's silly, but sometimes we just need a light children's story to make us laugh. If you're thinking about rereading this, do yourself a favor and listen to the audiobook.
İlk kitabın büyüsü var mıydı?Hayır, ama Dahl’ın anlatımıyla bu çikolatalı dünyaya tekrar dalmak hoştu.
آدم اگر کاسهی اگر و چی دستش بگیرد به هیچ جا نمیرسد....به نظرم خیلی خیلی ضعیفتر از کتاب اولش یعنی چارلی و کارخانه شکلات سازی بود.
آدم اگر کاسه‌ی اگر و چی دستش بگیرد به هیچ جا نمی‌رسد....به نظرم خیلی خیلی ضعیف‌تر از کتاب اولش یعنی چارلی و کارخانه شکلات سازی بود.
Not as great as the first part, but still enjoyable. I have a feeling, I might add Roald Dahl to my 'to read everything I can get my hands on' list. The storytelling (as absurd as it gets) is really indulging. I know I would have loved this if I read it when I was a child, and well, I'm liking it as an adult as well. That speaks for itself.
Ihan vähää aikaa aiemmin herra Vonkka oli kertonut pojalle, että hän lahjoittaa tälle koko jättimäisen satumaisen suklaatehtaansa.
Vonkan keksinnöillä on aina lopulta tapana toimia, paitsi jos häntä häiritään, tai hänen antamiaan ohjeita ei totella, silloin mitä vain voi tapahtua.
Vonkka hakee turvaa hotellista vain huomatakseen, että joku muu on jo valloittanut sen, vaikka hotellihenkilökunta on vasta matkalla.Lopulta ja monen mutkan jälkeen Vonkka saa ohjattua hissin takaisin suklaatehtaalle.
Vonkan tavoitteena on saada vanhukset pois sängystä, jossa nämä ovat jo kaksi vuosikymmentä maanneet - ja onnistuukin tässä lopulta, vaikkakaan ei aivan niin kuin oli aluksi kuvitellut.Seuraa lisää poukkoilua lasihisillä ja asioiden palauttamista ennalleen.
that age old problem of sequels, they are never as good as the original story, not even Roald Dahl is able to break that problem.In the great glass elevator Dahl attempts to write a Sci-Fi story, I think it is the first time he has done that and for me his story telling doesn't work as well up in space.
But once you start bringing Sci-Fi into the story you have to make things a bit more believable and Dahl doesn't do that.
Still, Dahl has written so many amazing stories I'm sure he is allowed one hiccup.
I read this to a computer several times trying to train it to recognize my voice: Dragon Naturally Speaking. I called it Dragon Naturally Failing because the program never worked as advertised, even though I bought several generations. To my knowledge, no speech to text works satisfactorily, except the one court (voice) reporters use.The story is, as always, a basket full of nightmares, written by the master of Children's Dark Fantasy: Beelzebub, himself. Charlie Spitbucket and his bedridden grandparents get up to some flying monkey hi-jinx in space. Avoid.
Published: 05/05/2005Author: Roald DahlRecommended for: ChildrenIn this story we see what happens to the life of Charlie Bucket and his family after he has won the chocolate factory.
We follow Charlie, Grampa and Willy Wonka on the adventures and journeys in the amazing sequel to Charlie and the Chocolate Factory.
It is a truly great childrens book as it helps to expend their imagination and engage in the book.
It is a silly, fun, and funny book for children to enjoy and love.
In my opinion it isn't as good as Charlie and the Chocolate Factory however it is still a really good story.
Con todo el respeto, pero que mierda ha sido esto. XD
اين كتاب اصلا در حد و اندازه ى چارلى و كارخانه ى شكلات سازى نبود! اما باز هم ايده هاى رولد دال جالب بود و دوست داشتنى :)
4 stars! :DSo I thoroughly enjoyed this book! In my opinion it was a lot better than Charlie and the chocolate factory but that's probably because you se less of Willy Wonka in this one and he annoyed me quite a bit.I really liked the story in this one and I found the US President to be absolutely hilarious :PI stared and finished this book during a 24 hour readathon, Roald Dahls books are the perfect length for this kind of thing.Can't wait to read more by him :D
I had loved the first book, Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, but this one is a big disappointment.
This book has lost all the humor that was in Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, the jokes are absurd and impossible to understand.
Furthermore, let’s not forget this book is meant for kids and they love short books.What I didn’t understand at all was the parallel story regarding the President of the United States.
My one piece of advice is that you should only read Charlie and the Chocolate Factory which is, by the way, an amazing book!
This was a bedtime readaloud to the kiddos, and frankly, if they hadn't been enjoying it so much, I wouldn't have finished it.
All three said they enjoyed it better than Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, so we had a good hour-long conversation about the perils of recency bias.
I remember enjoying it as a kid, but adults beware: the plot is a mess, the jokes fall flat (especially the borderline-racist ones), and despite some good moments, the overall impression is that Dahl was more interested in capitalizing off the success of Willy Wonka than telling any kind of a coherent story.
