https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1289644.The_Rats_in_the_Walls
Howard sit in the afterworld playing Dungeons and Dragons and talking about Lovecraft’s 1924 novella The Rats in the Walls.Stoker: OK and add plus 3 for your vorpal blade and you do [rolling dice] 18 hit points of damage, the orc is dead.Poe: Filthy beasts, reminds me of one of my instructors at West Point.Howard: So, HP, when you wrote Rats in the Walls, were you trying to make a case for ancient evil being the foundation of our society, using the Delapore House as a literal symbol of this illustration or was it just a useful setting for a connection with long buried pagan rites.Lovecraft: Well, a little of both.
This isn’t a bad thing, he usually waits until the very last moment to reveal the horrors lurking within his world.
I’ve never found rats scary, in fact, I think they’re quite cute.
Unless they’re ethereal rats that haunt an old Priory that has long since been abandoned, like Lovecraft’s rats, then they are just not very convincing terrors.Like all good pieces of horror fiction, the physical torment is the lesser half of the canvas.
We are not supposed to understand horrors, that’s what makes them so horrific.
So this is a very good piece of horror writing from the master himself.
As creepy as it can be!  DARK LEGACY This a very creepy tale...!...where the last man of the De la Poer Family goes back to England to inherit their ancestral home,......Exham Priory,......which is in terrible structural conditions, so he wants to get it back to shape,......however his family’s lore keeps a too dark past,......and blood always runs thick in family!
And it scared the hell right out of me.This story—the account of an American named named Delapore who makes the unwise decision to move to England and rebuild the ancient family mansion, Exham Priory—is an honest-to-god real corker.
I feel unending gratitude to this story, for it taught me that the word “white,” properly used, could be scarier than the word “black.” As in this passage: “the floundering, squealing white thing on which Sir John Clave’s horse trod one night in a lonely field.”It still makes me shudder to think of it.
This short story, one of the early dark jewels of Lovecraft's corpus, is a horror genre elaboration on the famous Pied Piper of Hamelin medieval legend.
Apparently, the atrocious cesspits behind the recesses in the walls and underneath the house are like an unfathomable secret library, and its broken skulls are like open books that can make the reader stammer and drive him mad.As a side note, it’s also —to my knowledge— the first story where Lovecraft mentions Nyarlathotep, one of the deities in his fanciful pantheon.
The Rats in the Walls is one of the really paranoid Lovecraft's tales, penned during the early time of his career. The narration and writing style of this gloomy Gothic horror story about family secret and insanity is obviously influenced by Edgar Allan Poe, still Lovecraft had clearly done his homework well and the guy successfully take us to one hell of a nightmarish ride through deadly curses, ancient evil and delusion. Although Lovecraft's narration can be really dry at times, I still strongly recommend it to lovers of Gothic horror.
A creepy short read for a great Lovecraft BR with a fellow Lovecraft fan and an occasional Cthulhu tamer, Craig :) This exciting Lovecraft BR was inspired by Ghoul, dedicated to a fabulous Cthulhu. I've never read Lovecraft before and it was nice to explore his creations. It's definitely not my last date with Mr. Lovecraft :)So, lets start from the beginning....andLovely, isn't? :)To sum up...
Amazing. One of the greatest plot twists I've read.A man becomes perplexed by rats he heard in the walls and finds aid from his cat and an assistant. They explore the family mansion/ castle and find a horror of human remains, and the inevitable answer."They must know it was the rats; the slithering scurrying rats whose scampering will never let me sleep; the daemon rats that race...and beckon me down to greater horrors than I have ever known; the rats...the rats, the rats in the walls."
Review for The Rats in the Walls by H.P. Lovecraft3.5/5 Ultimate horror often paralyzes memory in a merciful way. A descendant of the Delapore family embarks upon rebuilding the decrepit family estate, Exham Priory, in England. Shortly after, peculiar noises reminiscent of the frenetic scurrying and clawing of rats begin emanating intermittently behind walls, often during the dark of night....The Rats in the Walls is superb Gothic horror fiction, beautifully weaving many of Lovecraft's common st
Review for The Rats in the Walls by H.P. Lovecraft3.5/5
A descendant of the Delapore family embarks upon rebuilding the decrepit family estate, Exham Priory, in England.
Shortly after, peculiar noises reminiscent of the frenetic scurrying and clawing of rats begin emanating intermittently behind walls, often during the dark of night....The Rats in the Walls is superb Gothic horror fiction, beautifully weaving many of Lovecraft's common staples, from nightmarish monstrosities and psychological horror, to pagan rites and ancestry tainted with reproach.
The locale itself, Exham Priory, is as much a character as our protagonist, with its rich storied history, and its mysteries held tightly within its ancient depths.
But otherwise, an excellent example of Lovecraft's knack for the weird and fantastical.Recommended.
Se aprende bastante con Lovecraft (sus libros deberían venir con una indicación: "leer con una enciclopedia a mano") y su forma retorcida de asustar a la gente, de poner a un ser humano en una situación que se escapa de su comprensión y que luego posee su mente por completo.
Cuando el protagonista (del cual sólo se conoce su apellido, Delapore) se muda a ese lugar, las leyendas que la gente recuerda no lo dejan tranquilo y, de hecho, sus vecinos prefieren evitarlo y odian que restaure la casa.
I feel like the man should have been born in the year 1970 and gotten a job writing lore for video games instead of writing short stories.
As a writer, Lovecraft is incredibly gaudy and his stories have no emphasis on character.
Instead Lovecraft focuses on his word obsession and horror concepts.
I love Lovecraft inspired fiction and art, but the man himself rarely does it for me.
There are no satisfying answers here, but by god, THE IMPLICATIONS!!Also if you're easily offended, the true hero of the story is a black cat named Nigger-man, who was named after Lovecraft's real life cat.
The skill of Lovecraft's writing is monumental he writes with shear skill and atmosphere. This story is one of a terror of rats be sure to buy a cat when you occupy and new property as it may be a priceless weapon. The rats are a viscous, gelatinous, ravenous army that feast on the dead and the living.  "the walls were alive with nauseous sound the veminous slithering of ravenous, gigantic rats.""My searchlight expired, but still I ran. I heard voices, and yowls, and echoes, but above all there
The skill of Lovecraft's writing is monumental he writes with shear skill and atmosphere.
This story is one of a terror of rats be sure to buy a cat when you occupy and new property as it may be a priceless weapon.
The rats are a viscous, gelatinous, ravenous army that feast on the dead and the living.
"the walls were alive with nauseous sound the veminous slithering of ravenous, gigantic rats.""My searchlight expired, but still I ran.
I heard voices, and yowls, and echoes, but above all there gently rose that impious, insidious scurrying; gently rising, rising, as a stiff bloated corpse gently rises above an oily river that flows under the endless onyx bridges to a black, putrid sea."
P. Lovecraft in college...I most likely did....but I can't remember one thing I read in college.
I remember Poe, most certainly, but Lovecraft doesn't stand out.
I was looking at a list of great stories about haunted houses,and out of the 7 I had already read 5.
My nerves were on edge....I was hooked, creeped out, had the heebie jeebies......hairs on my arm standing on edge....a chill up and down my spine....I was like freaking out.....what a story......Now on to Hell House by Richard Matherson, however you spell that one.
THE HAUNTING OF HILL HOUSE by Shirley Jackson is on the list too.
Strewth!
A short story about ghostly rats running down this bloke's walls in his newly renovated mansion sending him insane.
If he was still alive, I'd drag H.P. Lovecraft over to our home for the night and he could listen to the NON-ghostly possums doing line dancing on our roof every night.
Now THAT would send you insane.
(Thank God for the invention of the possum trap.) Not very scary.
Not very long.
Not very good.
But readable ...
I suppose.
I didn't like that he called one of his moggies Nigger-Man, but maybe racist names were accepted back then.
This is vintage Lovecraft. You've got a sort of ancestral curse, descendants suffering for the sins of their ancestors, hidden esoteric knowledge that leads to damnation, devolved humanity, a preoccupation with insanity, madness, & mental obfuscation, cats, cannibalism, and heroic antiquarians & scholars who tackle evil with their brains instead of their brawn...and end up all the worse for it.
The Rats in the Walls is told by a last living member of the de la Poer family.
One of his ancestors Walter de la Poer, the eleventh baron Exham, fled to America after he killed members of his family.
The fact that 'this deliberate slaughter, which included a father, three brothers, and two sisters, was largely condoned by the villagers' should have told him something.After he starts living in Exham Priory, he starts hearing strange noises in the walls and having disturbing dreams.I should have expected that ending, but somehow it surprised me.
One of Lovecraft's finest short stories. Poor Delapore should have stayed in America and not returned to his ancestral home in Britain. He came from an "accursed line" and when he discovers exactly how cursed, it is too late. This is a very dark tale and Lovecraft weaves a terrifying story with ornate but beautiful language and imagery.
عن الرعب من الماضي البعيد الذي لا نعرف عنه شيئاً. عن الرعب من أسلافنا الذين عاشوا أياماً مخيفة في عصور منسية. عن الرعب من الأماكن التي لا نستطيع تحديد أعمارها. عن الرعب مما حدث هنا يوماً. عن الرعب الباقي هنا أبداً.عن الرعب يكتب لافكرافت كما لم يكتب أحد غيره.أحمد الديبيوليو 2015
"I had now been shown the thing which certain forces had wished to show me."Superb work.
3.75 stars. Rats are the worst. Review to come.
A man lives in an ancient house haunted by the sound of nocturnal rats.
The beginning story is familiar with Bram Stoker's The Judge's House I read in school, but suddenly the story hits to the darkest and most twisted part and leaves the reader get lost in the mind of a mad and cruel man.
I felt the lightning bolt when he reveals what's actually the cause of animal sounds and the house's past, not yet the story continues to deceive you with the narrative and finally leaves you with the title uttered again and again.
4.5. In short, an intense descent into horror. Has its issues, but the premise is great. Review to come as part of a Lovecraft miniseries :)
a house that was set on fire due to a plague of gigantic rats that were abnormal. The heir comes back and reconstructs the whole house and the terror comes back to life again...
I'm a weenie when it comes to scary stories, reliably hearing ominous creaks and other peculiar noises in my quiet house while reading about horrors stalking the unwary, but, not having inherited an ancestral mansion with a shadowed past (and if I did I sure's heck wouldn't excavate the sub-sub-basement!), I found “Rats in the Walls” not scary and...
And thank goodness, because things would go better for him but be pretty dull for us then, wouldn't they?
Our non-superstitious narrator comes back with a crack team and opens “the gate to a new pit of nameless fear.” And discoveries ensue!
Hay muchas razones, pero la principal es que no puedo evaluar el libro como tal, ya que son distintas historias, y unas pueden haberme gustado o no.
Todas me gustaron, unas más que otras, claro está, pero las ocho historias me tenían atrapada.
Y en cada una de ellas había algo que realmente no esperaba.
No puedo dar una reseña de cada una de éstas historias porque son muy cortas (comparados con un libro).
Pero realmente las recomiendo, Lovecraft es un maestro del horror y en provocar pesadillas (especialmente si lees las historias antes de dormir).
This is one of Lovecraft's masterpieces of terror that doesn't directly mention his well-known elder gods directly, but hints at elder evil nonetheless. It's one of my favorite stories, truly a creepfest.Plot: The last man in his family line decides to go back to his family's ancestral home to renovate and preserve his legacy, only to find there's more history to the house than he really wants to know.
Possibly the most effective, innovative, terrifying, and accessible of all H. P. Lovecraft's horror works. It's not as fun as "Herbert West, Reanimator" or as surreal and smart as "The Silver Key," but hey, I'm only writing this sentence to bring up other Lovecraftian masterpieces. Highly recommended.
Incredibly creepy, atmospheric, and horrifying - one of Lovecraft's best. This one seems far more succinct and better paced - not nearly the same interminable build before the climax. Very good!
On one hand, the initial horror is rather wonderfully creepy, and the hero of the tale (view spoiler)[is a cat, albeit with the jaw-dropping name of Nigger-Man (hide spoiler)].
On the other hand, this is one of the aristocrat-succumbs-to-family-degeneracy stories, which means Lovecraft's obsessions with (view spoiler)[family crypts, devolution, and cannibalism (hide spoiler)] will make their appearances.
Lovecraft's weird obsessions with race, phrenology, and sensitive souls are there as well, mostly on the periphery (outside of the name).
Lovecraft can't see the forest for the trees when it comes to his own failings.(Moved 2016 review to the individual work Sept.
I was enjoying this story quite a bit, thinking it was potentially going to be one of my favorites by HPL, and then I hit the first instance of the cat's name, and got a sinking feeling in my stomach. And then it just kept being repeated throughout the story, and I cannot get past how fucking offensively racist it is. Yeah, I know, product of his time and all that bullshit. Too bad. Fuck this story. Much potential ruined.
