https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/250792.Ain_t_I_a_Woman
White male scholars who examined the black family by attempting to see in what ways it resembled the white family structure were confident that their data was not biased by their own personal prejudices against women assuming an active role in family decision-making. But it must be remembered that these white males were educated in an elite institutional world that excluded both black people and many white women, institutions that were both racist and sexist. Calling myself racist accomplishes
By verbally denying white women racial identity, that is by simply referring to them as women when what they really meant was white women, their status was reduced to that of non-person.White feminists did not challenge the racist-sexist tendency to use the word “woman” to refer solely to white women; they supported it.
A feminism so rooted in envy, fear, and idealization of male power cannot expose the de-humanizing effect of sexism on men and women in American society.Our willingness to assume responsibility for the elimination of racism need not be engendered by feelings of guilt, moral responsibility, victimization, or rage.
It wasn't until I read this book did I finally start understand as to what it's truly like to exist as a black woman in our society.
It was like listening to a knowledgeable Aunt or big sister talk about her experiences.
Like I cried mid way through the book that's how powerful Ain't I a Woman is.
If you care about black women, feminism or even just humanity you need to read this book because it will change you, and if it doesn't well then you are an asshole.
I am a little fledgling when it comes to intersectional feminism, so this was a great book for me to read.
It further explored and clarified certain arguments and points-of-view that I've read/listened about online.
It was published in 1987, so it's not completely up-to-date, but it is really an excellent book.bell hooks discusses black women and the sexism and racism they faced during slavery, and then continues discussing and exploring the sexism and racism that they face in contemporary times.
Her writing is powerful, unapologetic, and important.(also lots of today's mainstream white feminists could do with reading this tbhhhh)
A very informative book!
It reminded me how left out I feel about most feminist work and things in pop culture geared towards women.
The history of the feminist movement shared in this book is incredible.
The fact that it didn't want anything to do with black women made me think that we still have quite a long way to go.
And to understand that, it opens the doors for much of her later work and opens the doors for other black feminist writers and historians.
There's this idea that feminism is a radical thing but when approached in the right way, it's there to open your eyes to the long history of inequality.
Ain't I A Woman provides a comprehensive historical and social analysis of the ways black women have been marginalized by both white feminist movements and civil rights movements run by black men.hooks brings forward numerous examples of racist actions and statements by first and second-wave feminists, such as white women suffragettes excluding black women from their organizations and conferences.
Don't let her speak!" as Truth mounted the platform.The examples hooks brought forward made me more fully understand why some black women see the label "feminist" as irredeemable, but hooks herself notes the ways in which black women experience sexist oppression alongside of and intersecting with race and class oppression.
https://www.instagram.com/p/BeAJExaFo...
Une véritable claque sur la construction des mythes et stéréotypes entourant les femmes noires aux états-unis (mais les faits présentés sont aussi vrais pour le reste du monde). Un livre nécessaire qui démontre que le féminisme intersectionnel est la clé pour lutter contre toutes les inégalités.
I cannot stress enough how important this book is; a molotov cocktail into the cultural necropolis that is America.
Some reviewers have criticized the book for not having footnotes, or for certain historical inaccuracies or generalizations.
Her clarion call ending, demanding a radical transformative force in American society to dismantle the institutions that merely perpetuate these oppressions restates Fanon's call for the New Man with a much better understanding of the pitfalls along the way.
If only Fanon would have realized that entrusting the revolution to patriarchs does not result in anyone being free, and instead merely reanimates the rotting cadaver of Europe; a monstrous edifice made flesh.
Non, plus sérieusement, c'est un livre frappant sur la place des femmes noires dans les mouvements sociaux aux États-Unis, place qui n'est pas très glorieuse ni dans le cas des droits civiques ni celui du féminisme.
Important à lire pour connaître l'histoire et prendre conscience du racisme d'une certaine frange du féminisme malgré les bonnes paroles.
Évidemment, il a été écrit en 1981 et parle de la situation des femmes états-uniennes, mais il y a des leçons à tirer ici aussi sur la place que la majorité des femmes blanches laissent aux femmes racisées et autochtones.
Ce n'est pas qu'une question de nos voisins du sud.
My experience of enlightenment via ain't i a woman began before I even got my hands on the book.
She's sassy." If her word choice wasn't the most appropriate introduction to the intersectionality specific to black females, then I don't know what is.Perhaps a better word for hooks is "bold".
No one, not even seemingly untouchable figures such as Malcolm X and Martin Luther King, are free from hooks's critical discussion.The most enlightening section of this book for me is the author's explanation of capitalism as a source of sexism.
Let this book teach you some things you might be afraid to know, let it enlighten you, let it expose you to a whole new world and shine the light on the existence--past and present--of a large group of underrepresented persons among you.bell hooks' writing is highly readable and the concepts and anecdotes she presents are digestable, though at times she can be a little redundant.
There are many times when you will find yourself wanting to "remember that concept" or "remember that sentence and the way she said it" in order to recall it later in discussion: evidence of a great thinker and a likable writer.
Her point is that the white women involved in the movement are racist and sexist and have routinely alienated and antagonized the black women who should be standing at their sides, but in order to develop that point, she retraces the history of black women in the United States since slavery.
As a piece of scholarship, it certainly has limitations: It makes too many broad historical generalizations, it doesn't grapple with the fact that the United States is made up of people who are neither white nor black, it's somewhat heteronormative, and many sources are not cited.
Essential reading for anyone who wishes to understand the world we live in.I only have a tiny complaint: It's ok to criticize a movement for its goals, but when you don't provide an alternative one, it leaves me feeling helpless.
That's what I don't like about most critiques of the feminist goal of reaching gender and race equality and about people saying they want to end capitalism.
We shouldn't just want the same power to dominate, as white males have, I agree.
But, what's the alternative?
What's the alternative to democracy, states, people exchanging products and services for money and vice versa?
I loved it. It is a wonderful perspective on the feminist movement and black women. Some of the information is dated but the sentiments reign true today. bell hooks has gained another fan. I am a baby black feminist and found this easy to understand and thoroughly enjoyable.
Passionnant, éducatif, dénonciateur, violent... Ce livre - bourré de références bibliographiques - ne laisse pas indifférent. Et mon cœur bat plus fort à la lecture des dernières pages. Merci à bell hooks de l'avoir écrit, j'ai tant appris.
My book group is reading Ta-Nehisi Coates’s books and wanted to balance his voice with that of a black woman.
This book is stunning in its scope and its use of literature, history, and contemporary interviews to help both white and black women understand the unconscious racism and sexism that resides within and without.
This book is an essential read for any woman who wants to understand the challenges of building a woman’s movement that is inclusive and able to address the concerns of women in all classes and racial groups.
Un ouvrage intéressant qui m'a beaucoup appris sur la condition des femmes noires et qui m'a fait comprendre pourquoi il a été nécessaire pour les femmes noires de créer leurs propres mouvements. Par contre, j'ai trouvé que l'autrice se répétait énormément, ce qui a fini par me pousser à lire certains chapitres en diagonale...
Incredible, informative, and inspiring current and future feminists in what internal learning and betterment is needed.
I’ve read plenty of feminism writings, but almost all were written by white women.
As a white woman, the writings certainly detailed my shortcomings and I could relate.
But how can I call myself a feminist if I only understand feminism from the viewpoint of myself and other women who look like me?I learned so much about black slavery’s impact on women, their experiences and what was dealt to them.
Sur la place des femmes noires dans les mouvements feministes et les mouvements antiracistes aux USA. C'était très interessant (et déprimant), tout en écriture inclusive mais j'avoue qu'au bout d'un moment j'ai un peu saturé, j'ai limpression que quand on parle d'afrofeminisme c'est surtout des références américaines qui sont citées et j'aimerais voir des textes qui racontent comment le colonialisme a eu un impact sur la féminité noire, dans les mouvements feministes blancs etc...
bell hooks.I love this woman. She challenges me to decolonize my mind. Read this book. ✊🏾
Bell Hooks speaks to the idea that all the women are white and all the blacks are men.
How movement's for change within the system cannot be successful because someone, black women are always at the bottom of the ladder.
She talks about shelters and other types of bandaids that do nothing to change the overall plight of black women and future generations.
She talks about the black power movement and how it is an exercise in partiarchy and how all of the oppressions are connected.
black women move towards freedom.
And she believes a women's movement for all women can exist.

Inexcusable that it took me so long to read this book.
These essays are about black women's history in the United States and the historically problematic intersections between race and gender-- notably, that black women have either been asked to choose one of their identities as the "most important" or have felt doubly disempowered.
Hooks explores the ways in which black women have been devalued and how feminism has failed to address black women's lives.
I cannot do this book justice in this review but I want you all to read it because bell hooks is brilliant.
There were times while reading the books that bell hooks comes across as writing from such a tremendous store of anger until ones stops to realize that these things, (slavery, etc.) really did happen.Then the harder part begins, when one is forced to face the fact that white women are not really interested in joining together with their black sisters.
Hard, unpleasant, but impossible to hide, because it's true, and I hope it changes.
When a writer forces his/her reader to confront facts that are more than just a bit unpleasant about oneself, it's risky.
But without facing these ideas, nothing will EVER change.
3.5 stars - Much to think about and, as a white woman, to be ashamed of white women in the historically bad treatment of black women as fellow seekers of equality. I thought hooks paints several issues with a broad brush that surely have more variation in the behaviour of people in various groups. I particularly liked the final chapter where she discussed what feminism should and could achieve if women would not look to join the patriarchal society we already have but instead work for a society based on actual equality in race, sex, and class.
This is one of the most enlightened and enlightening books I've ever read. It grounded (and to some extent validated) my own feminist beliefs. bell hooks is a popular intellectual. She speaks to you - not at you, not above you - in a language you, an ordinary person, understand.
A really great, enlightening read with a wealth of information about black feminism through the centuries in the US as well as the systems that opposed and oppressed these movements. Definitely an essential read for anyone interested in intersectional/black feminism.
Required reading for anyone who considers themselves a feminist. Really, required reading for anyone who considers themselves a human being.
Necessary. Period.
