https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16071764-lean-in
To the contrary, I found that Sandberg lends a clear, relevant, necessary voice to issues of leadership and equality for women and men and understanding for parents working in and out of the home.It's a quick yet engaging read.
Sandberg makes excellent points on this being an issue of equality for both sexes.
But what would I do if I wasn't afraid?
My choices have been different from Sandberg's yet the book still resonated with me.
Bravo, Ms. Sandberg, and thank you.I'm Leaning In.
By the time I got to the last chapter and had to hear all about how great Marissa Mayer is, I stopped reading.
This book does what every feminist diatribe does - fails to give recognition to the great job a women does - motherhood.
I am a professional who is excelling up the career ladder, but I also embraced the most important part of my life, which is being a Mom. I forced myself to take 7 months off, most of which I loved, but some of which was harder than working a job, and I did it for my child.
That this book undermines the need to make structural changes in work to diminish barriers to women.
This is a book about how women can change their individual behavior to help them succeed in business as it currently exists.
Towards the end of the book Sandberg is trying to say that the choice to stay at home with children is as valid as staying in work.
The main way that she makes this point is by saying that women who stay at home can volunteer in all of these different ways, benefiting the world.
I feel sad that so many people criticize Sheryl's book WITHOUT reading it.
When I told my husband that I was reading "Lean In", he said, "Oh..., but people say it's for only rich elite women who can afford full time nannies." That is a result of malicious rumors.I'm not a businesswoman and my background is very different from Sheryl's, but I agree with almost everything she says in this book.
I wanted to continue working after I had a baby even though my husband made 5 times as much as me and financially didn't make sense to hire a nanny.
No matter how many good performance reviews, no matter how often peers tell me they like me on their project because they’ll know that it’s in good hands with me – I still think I will be ‘discovered’ some day for the imposter I am.Sometimes when people to ask me to send an old study to them, there is a part of me that doesn’t want to.
It’s is a mystery to me why people would follow me, or ask to friend me out of the blue, or like my reviews.
This is a great start on this particular conversation, but Sandberg leaves out two large groups of women; women of color and women who are not wealthy.
While many women want to sit at the table and lean as far in as the rest of those at the table many women are not invited and/or do not have the means to take the risk.
I applaud Sandberg for writing this book in the most authentic way she may know, but in order for me to give her a standing ovation I need to feel included.
Sadly, Lean In is corporate feminism with an extremely narrow focus that excludes most women.
Corporate feminism is the idea that if we put enough women in CEO positions then that'll trickle down to the rest of the gender.
I don't expect Sandberg to do so because that's tough enough for any one person to do, but it's disappointing to see this book going on the right track then suddenly swerve off course.It's clear that Sandberg understands, or is at least aware of racial issues in the corporate machine and the huge disparities in race and gender present in CEO and COO positions.
While she does tackle head on behaviors she's seen women engage in, such as failing to apply for promotions at the same rate as men because they rate themselves as less qualified even when they aren't, choosing to take on less responsibility to leave time for a family they hope to have someday, and draining energy on the judgment battles between moms who work and moms who stay home, she also addresses the jaw-dropping sexism she's battled from her time in government to meteoric rise in the tech industry.
But by choosing to tackle the problem head on in such an approachable and pragmatic fashion, Sandberg is providing an excellent example of of just how it can be done.
It is a 15 minute long speech that basically sums up her most pertinent points in this book.This isn't necessarily a book on how to climb the career ladder, as some might think, it offers some advice for your "home life" as well (especially about picking the right partner).I am glad she wrote this book and that it is getting so much attention because we (women) need to hear these things.I don't think anyone who actually reads this book will argue (much) with her points, despite some media/mommy bloggers trying to paint this as "blaming women".
Ms Sandberg is actually not blaming anyone.
This book is terrible on all levels.
It is written at a level beneath anyone who might hope to achieve the type of success she discusses.
I consider myself a woman who is successful in the workplace, but not because I act aggressive like a man-- rather, because I recognize my strengths and weaknesses and behave accordingly.
woman.
And, all of the obvious statements in her book are lifted from headlines we have all read in the past 2 years; putting then in sentence form and then publishing doesn't make it new or compelling.
And the main problem with this book: she is blatantly promoting herself, constantly.
Putting aside critiques of her belief in corporate feminism, Sandberg's book reeks of unspoken privilege.
Her message for women to transcend difference in the workplace through top leadership positions leaves behind many women who do not have the social agency, time, education, or good health to follow her example.
The whole time I was reading this book, all I could think of was, "Who is her nanny?
Does she have the agency to do the things Sandberg talks about?
If you're looking for a good weekend read, pass this one up.
I went into the office today to find that one of my female managers sent this book to me as a surprise gift along with a thank you note for being a role model and mentor to her in her career over the years.
She has two young girls like I do, and in my career field that is still rare.
She and I have shared the trials and tribulations of having a career and simultaneously loving and hating it, traveling, being married, being soft but hard as nails when needed, and love, love, loving being a mommy too.
Would $5,000 get you out of bed every day and help you overlook crowded smelly subways, meetings with people you kind of want to punch in the face, losing PowerPoint presentations when your computer crashes, having no flexibility to your life from M-F, 9am-6pm...$96 a week.
You probably aren't surprised to hear that this fictitious man got rave reviews for his business savvy, his drive, his success...all the things the woman was critiqued for.) I think Sandberg's admonishment to "lean in" is exactly what women need to hear, and her book should be required reading for anyone in the workplace, particularly for those who think being a feminist is bad and/or that things already are equal because the women's rights movement already happened.
Many people are not interested in acquiring power, not because they lack ambition, but because they are living their lives as they desire....We each have to chart our own unique course and define which goals fit our lives, values and dreams." This is great, however, the overall message of the book makes it seem that the only correct life choice that we, as women, should have is to be on that corporate ladder climbing toward the top rung to obtain equality.
She encourages that by advocating for ourselves, whether through the need for flexible working hours, or voicing the meaningfulness of our work if we choose to stay home, that we are acting in coalition with one another as working mothers- no matter what the nature of our work is.The most important part of this book is one that encourages men to take part in domestic life just as vigorously as women do.
For women without this kind of partner or home life, this book may feel like more of a fantasy novel than a mapped out path for a post feminist future.

This is her so-called feminist manifesto about inspiring women to grab at opportunities in their careers, instead of being filled with self-doubt or assuming that having children would hold them back.
She cites a number of different studies that illustrate gender inequality, not just in the workplace but throughout our society.
Sandberg raises some good questions about the gender socialization of children, and why we treat girls so differently than boys.
While this is not new information, maybe the hype surrounding this book is a good thing and will inspire more women to try and crack the glass ceiling.My rating: 3.5 stars rounded up to 4
One of the most effective things about Sheryl Sandberg's new book is that she followed the principles of KISS--keep it short and simple.
Sandberg provides copious statistical evidence in this well-researched book that support her idea that women are holding back rather than leading in, taking ourselves out of the game rather than getting on the field.
Rather than telling women to pursue their careers at the expense of their personal and family lives, she puts forward some very real ideas of how women and men can work together to make balance more possible and acceptable for people everywhere.
Other white women who went to Harvard, worked at Google, and had a lot of resources to help raise two kids?
Or is it men who like to pat themselves on the back for being "feminists", and women who don't want to stir up the hornet's nest too much?
And if that makes people uncomfortable: good.Empowering women isn't about reassuring them that they can totally still have kids and a kind husband while working at Google.
Maybe they don't want kids.
Or hey maybe that was exactly her intention.I've read more insightful feminist advice from former strippers than I have from this book.
Sandberg writes about women who will come up to after a speech and ask if she will mentor them.
Advice from those 30 years older than me - while often valuable, appreciated, and sometimes hilarious - is often coloured with a “back in my day” or a “I see myself in you” tone that makes it into an emotional rather than informational exchange.The second was Sandberg talking about crying at work.
Throughout the book, Sandberg refers to her decision to finish work at 5.30pm every day in order to have dinner with her family.
I give a lot of kudos to Sheryl Sandberg for bringing up a lot of topics that I think are important, under-discussed, under-recognized, and in some cases, did not really have a voice (at least not all in one work).
I applaud Sandberg for stepping outside of her own comfort zone, as she writes early in the book, to bring these issues to the table.
She is correct in that the women's movement has somewhat stagnated and that the movement has become complacent, and more women struggle with the "work-life" balance in their careers.
I thought her discussion of the topics were fresh, engaging, and insightful.
At other times, I found myself rolling my eyes at Sheryl's life and trying to imagine her ever living an ordinary life, working her way up the corporate ladder with no white privilege.
Alas, I must do what Sheryl tells me to and support her as a woman.
We have enough people trying to hold us back and crush us down, women must support other women in every aspect of their lives.
A book filled with statistics and wonderful anecdotes supporting the message to lean into your life and take more control of your future.
Overall a good book, with a strong message.
And I am hoping that each man will do his part to support women in the workplace and in the home, also with gusto.
Most American women do not have the resources to be able to do so, and while Sandberg is a successful businesswoman and has every right to her earnings, writing about this without further commentary certainly doesn't resonate well with working women.Remember that mom who pointed out that my son should be wearing a green T-shirt on St. Patrick's Day?
So many people benefit from her hard work.Is Sandberg suggesting that the only beneficial thing that could come out from being a stay-at-home mom is volunteer service?
I think the first impression that I had was that all women need to Lean In to job opportunities.
If staying at home with your children is fulfilling, then you should Lean In to the opportunity; likewise if you want to pursue a career.
However, the true point is that as women, we should work together and lift each other up.
We must appreciate each other and work together to make all opportunities and choices available so that we may succeed and push ahead- for women of all nationalities, ethnicities, creeds, etc.
She was a normal woman with normal fears, career setbacks, mishaps and OMG I am a spaz stories and that in itself was wow for me.Her main message is that often women don't get fully involved (lean in) enough when they choose to do something out of fear of not being liked or coming off as too smart or thinking that they can't really do it instead of just trying or winging it plus a myriad of other reasons.
If you don't ask for a raise, you're less likely to get one.
If you ask for a raise, and you're female, it has a real impact on how people perceive you.
Work your ass off to get ahead, but still find the time to parent.
Sheryl Sandberg has done a very good job of bringing together tons of evidence about how women experience the professional world, and some suggestions on how to deal with issues that may arise.They are practical suggestions.
For two reasons that I can extract from my hunched shoulders.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
I have to admit that I picked this up mostly because I felt I was obligated as a feminist, and especially as a woman working in tech.
I could not have been more wrong.By the day after I started reading this, I already felt more self-aware both at work and outside of the office.
I was actively recognizing many of the habits and pitfalls Sandberg describes and warns against in myself and even the tiniest decisions I make every day.I feel this is an absolute must-read for everyone, especially women working in or out of the home, partners of women, and men in senior leadership positions or those with direct female reports.
Lean In is being bizarrely mischaracterized. It has issues but it isn't a harmful book to women from any walk of life, not by any stretch of the imagination. The biggest issue with this book is that there's nothing new here, but the retread is blandly interesting. Full review forthcoming,
If Sheryl Sandberg's Lean In was a person, it wouldn't be the CEO of a Fortune 500 company: it would be that overbearing middle manager everyone loves to hate.
The one with a sports car and a wife too young for him who tries desperately to be "with it." The one whose greatest joy in life is boiling down complex problems to a platitude you could fit on a desk calendar.
This is a caked-over mess of schmaltz and self-promotion, with just enough girl power quotes sprinkled throughout that hungry young people in thankless entry-level corporate helljobs will use them to decorate their cubicle walls for the next decade.
It needn't be but you see it is again today."A Feminism Where ‘Lean In’ Means Leaning On Others"Gary Gutting interviews Nancy Fraser http://opinionator.blogs.nytimes.com/...G.G.: Why can’t responding to feminist concerns be seen as just one major step in correcting the social and economic flaws of our capitalist society, not a fundamental transformation of the system?N.F.: It certainly can be seen that way.
Increasingly, it is liberal feminist thinking that supplies the charisma, the aura of emancipation, on which neoliberalism draws to legitimate its vast upward redistribution of wealth.cont's with Fraser's take on the family wage, microcredit, the lost cause of anticapitalism, nonreformist reform, unconscious bias, individual v systematic prejudice, and rape culture._____________Just as there are two kinds of religion, there are two kinds of feminism ;--; the right kind and the wrong kind.
