https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56064.Jeeves_and_Wooster_Omnibus
Wodehouse once said: "believe there are two ways of writing novels.
I love Wodehouse (and I have read god knows how many of his novels but they in truth all blend together because they are all so delightfully similar)because his books are just so altogether out of touch with reality and true feelings and what is gritty about life.
Although you're pretty much set with reading any of his novels, the omnibus is a great way to get a taste of his writing and you get samples from all the Wodehouse worlds.
I'll use this book as a comment for all of the many Wodehouse books I've read. First, I love P.G. Wodehouse. His books are fantastic--absolute fun and revelry to read. Especially, most especially, Bertie and Jeeves. You have a few firsts in life: first kiss, first Thai food, and first time reading Bertie and Jeeves. I only wish there were more of these stories. What, what, what?
What can I say. Jeeves and Wooster never fail to lift my spirits and make me chuckle. Some of the best writing for me. Sparse, witty, clever. A definite one to take on an island if stranded, or even just by the pool on holiday
I just finished reading The Mating Season (one of 3 Jeeves/Wooster books in this omnibus) and it was a blast! This may have been the first PGW book I've read in almost a decade. I loved every minute of it! Classic Wodehouse.
I love Jeeves and Wooster, they're the perfect pick-me-up.
Brilliant ! So funny !
I don't quite know why these stories of an upper class nit-wit and his butler set in 1930s England appealed so much to my 18-year-old self, but I read them all!
I think it had a lot to do with the tales of endless cocktail drinking, swanning around in posh country houses, PG Wodehouse's brilliant humour and everything always working out in the end that still make these an absolute favourite of mine!
And the fact that fantastic Stephen Fry & Hugh Laurie played them in the TV series at the time.
Worth reading by anyone interested in ingenious humourous writing that stands the test of time.
I've read The Code of the Woosters and Right Ho, Jeeves!
but haven't yet read the The Mating Season.
Like all of Wodehouse's Jeeves books these are sublime.
Wonderfully structured and break-neck pacing with amazing dialog and hilarious characters in even more hilarious situations.
The man's a genius.Finished The Mating Season (March 2015) and it's a blast.
The story isn't quite as strong as others and with Bertie pretending to be Gussie for most of the book, Jeeves is absent.
It's nice to see a bit of the evolution of Bertie though.
Great lines and whip smart dialog.
There have been two authors my entire life who have made me literally laugh out loud. One is David Sedaris. The other is P.G. Wodehouse.My mom used to let me read the books when I was little, partially because they were so witty and entertaining that it was a good way to shut up a particularly inquisitive child, and largely because it's a good demonstration of how idiotic toffs ruin everything but the one reliable man who has all the intelligence, sophistication, and wisdom in the world can fix any problem.
Reading this end-to-end, except in the most perfect circumstances and environment, is probably not the best plan, as the repeating themes can begin to feel hackneyed, despite the wonderful characterizations and dialogue. I keep Wodehouse books on hand to read a story here and a story there (including to my children at night), where they feel like an impromptu conversation with an old and funny friend.
I think these are the best three of Wooster and Jeeves. By the way I am a little partial to Wooster as his plans are mostly very good but for his not bring plugged into the network of the working people Jeeves represents. Thus he fails most times where as Jeeves succeeds. I would be rather a Wooster than a Jeeves though as I am hedonistic similar to Berty.
Oh, my goodness, these are so funny!! Personal favorite is the novel, The Code of the Woosters. An affair that tests the Wooster soul and the genius of Jeeves to the very limits-involving, among others, Gussie Fink-Nottle, his fiancee Madelaine Bassett, her monstrous father, and and eighteenth century creamer shaped like a cow!
Bertie Wooster is gust right off the top, and I love Jeeves to the point of longing for one of my own. If I had to choose one of them for a friend, I would probably choose Jeeves. He promises to be more entertaining in the long run. What writing! What fun!
I couldn't live without this book! All of the Jeeves and Wooster stories in one volume for easy devouring. You'll want to reread the stories over and over again, enjoying not just the funny situtations and characters but Wodehouse's unique turns of phrase.
It really doesn't get any better than Jeeves & Wooster. I like to keep this volume handy for when I need a good laugh, or just an escape. Dipping in at random always results in a treat; for more tenacious doldrums, I just read straight through until my mood changes. Also excellent on audio.
I can do no better than Evelyn Waugh: "Mr. Wodehouse's idyllic world can never stale. He will continue to release future generations from captivity that may be more irksome than our own. He has made a world for us to live in and delight in."
Light and chappish, Wodehouse is effervescent company; personally, I can't immerse myself in this without thinking of the world of Gaskell's North and South that predates, but underpins Wooster's foppish existence. But that's probably just me - don't take anything away from Wodehouse.
Jeeves and Wooster are the funniest books i've ever read. The plots are usually hilariously convoluted and Bertie is always in trouble and the writing and one-liners leave you in tears of laughter. Pure genius.
The stories are a tad predictable, but the BBC tv series was lots of fun, so I had to read these.
No one is funnier than Wodehouse!
The Wooster stories have one psychology, and some of the other novels I'm not so sure about. Is there any official theory that Wodehouse may have had a little help on those?
A feast of writing, delivered with aplomb and with something for every palate.
I try to read and re-read this once a year. Anyone who doesn't like Jeeves and Wooster should be viewed with suspicion.
Lovely, charming stories that never fail to cheer you up!
Bally wonderful, what!
Jeeves delivers, as always.
Brilliant! Witty! Smashing, what ho. Jolly good and all that, as Bertie might say. Wodehouse is a droll genius.
The man's King of Frivolity
Jeeves and Wooster is very much like a cream tea: Delicious on occasion but a bit much for every meal. Definitely one to dip into from time to time.
Just pure unadulterated fun. Makes me miss England terribly...
