https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60318.Collected_Lyrics
Millay won the Pulitzer Prize for poetry in 1923, and when she published one of her collections, "Huntsman, What Quarry " it made the bestseller list.
Can you imagine a book of poetry on the bestseller list today?
I have always loved her poetry and it was fun to reread the old favorites and discover some new ones.
It's funny to remember how romantic I thought these poems were when I was young, but they're still beautiful.
"My candle burns at both ends; It will not last the night;But ah, my foes, and oh, my friends- It gives a lovely light!"
I'd give this book a 3.5. Edna St. Vincent Millay has this sort of depression and melancholy that I really relate to.Some of the poems were so beautiful and I loved the way she strung some sentences together. Others were a little harder to get through and it took me a little while to get the hang of the flow of her writing. All in all, I enjoyed this read.
I pursued Edna St. Vincent Millay after reading John McWhorter's "Doing Our Own Thing: The Degradation of Language and Music." He cited her as the poet of careful craft, an exemplary poet of pre-beat twentieth century America.
And indeed, his promotion did not let me down.
There were many poems I didn't care for in the volume, some too loose, some too political.
The good ones were amazing, though, very carefully constructed, conscious of meter and rhyme.
Many meditations on life, love, death, the mountains, and the sea that I would like to memorize.
It's refreshing to read formal poetry, to escape rampant free verse for a while.
Would have given it 4 stars if not for “To S.M.” That poem is breathtaking. She was incredible!
I inherited a beautiful hardbound edition of this collection from my grandmother.
It was wonderful to read Edna St Vincent Millay's work for the first time through a familial connection.
I cannot say that Millay always impresses me...
sometimes, her poetry rings a little too simple in structure for me to feel that she's really paying attention to form all that much.
I think she is best at long-form poetry, where her cadence rings like a bell throughout a long train of thought.
These are the moments when her talent really shines.Overall, a classic and recommended for any great fan of poetry.
So wonderful. Deliciously lyrical. Some favorites include:"Afternoon on a a hill" (26)"Tavern" (27)"Ashes of Life" (28)"Journey" (51-52)"Exiled" (76)"Moriturus" (143)"Being Young and Green" (160)"English Sparrows" (230)"To a Young Poet" (248)"Counting-out Rhyme" (176-7)A favorite quote:"More precious was the light in your eyes than all the roses in the world."
My absolute favorite poet.
This collection is great to flip through or sit down and properly read--and it has the great feature of an index by first line.
My favorite is Witch-Wife, and you may remember "Recuerdo" and "Macdougal Street" from the NYC subway's "Poetry in Motion" series, back at the beginning when the poems were better.
Millay was also the first woman to ever win the Pulitzer Prize for Poetry, if that kind of thing interests you.
She was also known for her open marriage and bisexual bohemianism, if THAT kind of thing interests you.
It seems like I've had this book forever.Ms. Millay's poems are vibrant and sad.
She writes about a variety of subjects.Small example from a poem called The Musician:"There, today, as in the days when I knew you well,The willow sheds upon the stream its narrow leaves,And the quiet flowing of the water and its faint smellAre balm to the heart that grieves.Together with the sharp discomfort of loving you,Ineffable you, so lovely and so aloof, There is laid upon the spirit the calmness of the river view:Together they fall, the pain and it's reproof."Seek her out and enjoy!
The Ballad of the Harpweaver is my favorite of her poems, pg.
I'm guessing every morning, Edna St. Vincent Millay awoke and asked herself, "What's the most depressing thing I can write about today?" Some days it was self-destruction ("The Suicide"). Some days it was poverty ("The Ballad of the Harp Weaver"). Still other days it was death ("Renascence") or war ("Three Sonnets in Tetrameter") or injustice ("Justice Denied In Massachusetts"). On good days, she wrote about nature. Yes, she can gush and wax and sound every bit the poetess but this collection contains many verses worth your while.
Some of Millay's poems are very, very good. In loose poems, the near rhymes and tricky rhyme patterns are bliss. In structured ones, she keeps the rhyme very well without losing too much.A few poems aren't. Her short poems are better than long; her loose poems better than her structured. While the imagery is very good, these poems are much more emotion than imagery. A few poems ("Childhood Is the Kingdom Where Nobody Dies") combine the two in genius. Millay was more "traditional" than those in her time, but she's just as good in her own way.
At one point the best selling modern american poet, this great writer has fallen off the radar. She has been neglected for adherance to trdational poetic forms, though her subject matter was topical and often controversial. She wrote about free love and against war and did little to hide her bisexuality in the 1920s! Well worht a read if you have any love of poetry or feminist literature.
Before reading this book, I only liked a few poems that I had found in life, all by various authors. This was the first book that showed me that poetry is a delight to read. I've read this cover to cover, probably about twice, but I've read some parts of it over twenty times. I would suggest this book to just about anyone who has even the slightest inclination to read poetry.
the anguishi would to god i were quenched and fedas in my youthfrom the flask of song, and the good breadof beauty richer than truth.the anguish of the world is on my tongue.my bowl is filled to the brim with it; there is more than i can eat.happy are the toothless old and the toothless young,that cannot rend this meat.
The True Encounter"Wolf!" cried my cunning heart At every sheep it spied, And roused the countryside."Wolf! Wolf!"--and up would start Good neighbors, bringing spade And pitchfork to my aid.At length my cry was known: Therein lay my release.I met the wolf alone And was devoured in peace.
Assuming that this edition is, like mine, a paperback from Harper & Row's Perrenial Classics, with an intro-duction c in 1959 and 1969, it contains work in the order published from a long span of years. Though her first work is impressive, the increasing maturity both personal and poetic show through.
The book that ended up - many years later - making me a poet. Starts off with the seminal (if in need of editing down) Renascence written when she was an isolated 17 year old small town school girl in New England.
"I know some poison I could drink, I've often thought I'd taste it.But mother bought it for the sink, And drinking it would waste it."
Ah, Millay. How great is Millay?
crazy...
Po książce mam ochotę na film. Lekka, zabawna, a historia trochę jak z Amelii :)
gift
I have a 1959 copy.
I love Edna St. Vincent Millay! She and Emily Dickinson are two of my favorite poets of all time.
