https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/125407.The_Secret_of_the_Indian
These books are such fun. I like that they make kids think about responsibility and putting others first, but never become preachy.
then Lynne Reid had to get creative. The kid goes back in time. Oh man. Fuck you Harry Potter.
The Secret of the Indian, the third book in the Indian and the Cupboard series, was good. It was more exciting than the second book, The Return of the Indian, but was not perfect. There is more drama and excitement, at least a sufficient amount for me to continue reading the series, yet the book started slow and often described past events in the previous book. While this could be helpful, it is unnecessary since almost all readers read the first two books before this one.
These books continue to be entertaining. Interested to see how the next one will turn out.
As far as the scope and quality of the work, it seemed to appeal to that childlike fascination of the possibility that toys could be real people, that it could happen...it gratifies that childhood longing to have something fantastically magical bring those toys to life...those toys that look like they could start moving at any moment - if you just look long enough.
I must admit that although cleverly done and a favorite for my children and from my childhood, I find that if I am reading a fantasy genre book for myself, I would prefer something that would simultaneously cater to a more mature audience, as well.
Meanwhile, the injured Indians from the previous book's misadventure require more expert medical care than their nurse figure can provide.
Patrick's cousin Emma is let in on the secret and helps to obtain surgical figures from her twin sister.
In this book, Patrick travels to Boone's time in the Old West and is rescued by Ruby Lou. When Patrick returns, he brings along Ruby Lou and a tornado that was about to hit.
Boone and Ruby were trapped in modern time when the magic key was lost in the tornado.
The author keeps the suspense the whole book every time Omri's about to get caught by one of the adults.
The author keeps the suspense in a good slow way.
The author explains what Omri's and Patrick's feelings are.
As the air does that it shows what the other person is feeling in a inferring way from the main character's point of view.
Like when it says " The main memory, later was of stupendous noise, a deafening roar that filled the room to bursting." That is good describing.
In that it begins about six hours after that book ends, and completes the plot of the Iroquois injured in Little Bear's battle.
The only reason I can imagine that they're not combined is that the books were published four years apart, so perhaps Banks hadn't intended to write a third, but, but then thought "you know what I didn't do yet?
Get Boone a lady-friend."And that's pretty much the only thing of note that happens in this story.
There, I saved you an hour or two of reading.Yes, the general quality of writing is maintained, but that doesn't matter when the plot just lays there.
I'm not sure what part of Texas the author was describing, but it sounded more like the deserts of Arizona or New Mexico than the rolling hills of Texas that I'm familiar with.A good fantasy makes it seem like what the author is describing COULD be possible, because the "rules" are consistent.
Now the "rules" for the magic cupboard and chest are starting to get muddy.
Still, this series has been a great discovery for my 9yo son.
He's enjoying all the books and can't wait to read the next book in the series.
A strong close to the opening 3 stories. This featured a return on the warmer and uplifting motifs which I enjoyed so much in The Indian in the Cupboard, and avoiding entirely the overly dark themes of The Return of the Indian.
Hello! this is what i think of the secret of the indiansOne of the main charactrers is a kid named Omri and itis mostly about the indians or Native Americans their secretalso this book feels real becaus native americansdid actually exist and this could be based on to real facts overall i enjoyed it.
The Secret of the Indian (The Indian in the Cupboard #3) by Lynne Reid Banks (Avon Books 1989)(Fiction). In this installment, Omri must transport into the Indian's world to save England. My rating: 4/10, finished 2005.
I liked it. In this book of it, they have to hill a lot of the Indians that died in the second book and even when the key can bring back everything. So Omri got Patrick back cause Patrick went to Texas, he brought back a Tornado to and they have to do it.
I loved this story. I even laughed after the cyclone tore through Omri's house. The headmaster got what he deserved. Omri decides that it is safer to lock the key away, but since there are 2 more books in the series, I can't wait to see what kind of adventure will happen next.
I was a bit disappointed with this book. There was a lot more fluff than action and it was quite repetitive. The author dedicated an entire chapter to retell what had happened in the first two books and continued with this throughout the entire book.
Not A Very Good Book At All Would Not Recommend.
Second in the "Indian" series. Good kids' book. Starts about a year after "The Indian in the Cupboard".
Still liking the series. Short and simple.
This book was a little boring in the first few chapters but then it got interesting. I like this book. I wish I had a magical key like the one Omri had! :D
This was actually my favorite of the series so far.
We see more growth from Omni and Patrick, meet Patrick's cousins Tamsin & Emma, and finally see the previous remarks about Natives as savage addressed and corrected, Omni standing up to his school headmaster to do so.
I do love that the experiences Omri, Patrick, & Emma have with Little Bear & Boone, Bright Stars & Matron, Ficketts & Ruby, lead the three kids to further their own knowledge about historical events.
And yet, they still manage to be kids, screw up royally sometimes, and struggle to set to rights the things they have been irresponsible about.
This book is really fun because Patric goes back to bones time. And that Patric tells Emma about the Indians. I also like it because it starts with the ending on the second book. It is funny how Omari tries to give the thing back to the Skin heads but they say it will explode if they touch it.I got this book from Santa
I read this book growing up and loved it (and all the sequels). I chose to read it aloud to my almost six year old. I gave it three stars only because of the fact that it has some lying/secret keeping from adults as well as some other themes I chose to skip over as i read it aloud. I still think the ideas of this book are truly imaginative.
Pretty fun. However, in the first book, Mr. Johnson the principal was a not-unsympathetic character. But now he's a bigoted, vain bully. I liked Ruby.
A very fun book. I felt like one thing was going to happen and the almost opposite of that happened.
My boys still love this series, but I had a couple of reservations about this one based on the ages of my boys. Might come back to the last two books another time.
My favorite of the series so far. This book had several laugh out loud moments and kept us in suspense on several occasions.
This one stuck with me a bit less...
This is a good addition to the series. I liked how you finally got to see the other way, them going to the plastic world.
this is also i good book with great story telling.
Fast and a little bit sad. I loved this trilogy.
