https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/691520.No_One_Here_Gets_Out_Alive
The Doors embodied yin and yang...I found an island in your arms Country in your eyes Arms that chain Eyes that lie In No One Here Gets Out Alive, Danny Sugarman has put together the comprehensive legend of Jim Morrison's life, as well as the birth and death of the band that made Morrison godlike in the eyes of millions.
The sun-drenched Whisky-a-Go-Go on the Sunset Strip in Los Angeles, site of The Doors early triumphsNo One Here Gets Out Alive is "sex, drugs and rock'n'roll" and as a teenager reading this, I LOVED it.
Danny Sugarman was perhaps the most diehard Doors fan of all time.
For about a two month period of time in 11th grade I thought that The Doors were a really good band, and that Jim Morrison was not a douche bag. It was one of the dark times of my life. I read this book then and really liked it. Thinking back on it I know it's not a very good book, nor do I think The Doors are a very good band.
I am a long-time Doors fan.
The latter led him to an early grave.
This book colorfully accounts for his genius and outrageous appetites that led to his early death at age 27.
The author dares suggest what Doors fans find heretical: Morrison wasn't a very good singer - he was an awesome shouter and a reasonably good poet.
Had he survived his youth, he probably would have become a first rate poet/writer.
A few years ago, my wife and I visited his grave at Pere la Chaise cemetery in Paris.
It's not that the events described aren't factually correct, but you really get the sense that this book was written by a 14 year old poser who understood Jim or the Doors as well as a typical super fan, and no better than that.
I still recall my high school English teacher refused to let me write a celebrity bio on Jim because a large-breasted cheerleader in my class asked first.
Well, all I can say is, she totally plagiarized this book and read the worst passages aloud, haltingly, to the class and got an A for her efforts.
However I still find that The Doors music stands the test of time and think Morrison was a talented and interesting guy.
The authors, one of whom knew Morrison personally, interviewed multiple people that were close to him and The Doors, but yet its hard get a true feel for what sort of person Morrison was underneath the front that he put up.
The faults are it didn't get on the other side of the mask that Morrison wore, the authors were obviously overly enthusiastic fans.
Is everybody in? Is everybody in? Is everybody in? The ceremony is about to begin...
Perhaps, 'Light My Fire' was playing on a radio station somewhere in the United States late at night once a month by some DJ claiming to have drank with the lead singer of that band but other than that The Doors were not news and were relegated to the back racks of Top Forty-driven chain record stores such as Tower, Coconut's, Sam Goody or, for Chicagoans, Flipside and Rose Records where teens would occasionally pull out an LP and turn to their friends with a stoned-stupid laugh and utter with convinced-cleverness, "Look ...
It became a part of my permanent collection of books and I read it a second time in August 1998 shortly after a news bite in Time magazine made note that the 30-year lease on his grave at Père Lachaise cemetery in Paris would expire on July 6, 2001 because the caretakers were "tired of picking up beer cans and condoms" left in the area there.
I am happy to report that his lease was extended and that fans and curious tourists alike, continue to include the gravesite on their "must-see" list of Paris.The book is a revealing (as most biographies are) look at Jim's life.I found it extremely tense throughout most of it because of his relentless plunge downward through a haze of booze and drugs.
I first saw a girl reading this on the bus from school in the early 80s.
She must've been in high school and I had the vague sense that it was something illicit, part of the drug culture.
Somehow I got over these childhood prejudices and embraced the Doors' music when I was in high school myself.
But reading this book was a revelation.
I discovered the Beats here and poets like Rimbaud, authors like Joyce and the poetry of Morrison himself.
Nor have I forgotten the rich literary tradition that I stumbled over thanks in large part to a simple (?) biography of a long-dead rock star.
This book to me was an obsessive take from the opinion of Danny Sugerman on Jim Morrison. I found some of the words to be quite hypocritical and at times a little demeaning. The Doors popularity was gained from their uniqueness as a band, that includes the voice of Jim Morrison. To say the man couldn't sing was an absolute lie. He stood out not only for his reckless ways, but also for his ability to sing in a way no other person could.
Passable only for my abiding love of all things Doors and Morrison (not always the same thing, y'unnerstand) and not because of any real depth or insight. Sugerman's got his obsequious head shoved straight up the ol' Lizard King's...er...throne that you can hardly see daylight but ah, what the hell. It's not like we're getting Plutarch or Lytton Strachey here...
I too was swept up with the mysticism of Morrison as a teenager.
While I don't rag on Jim as much as people do now, I can see why many groan.
This book, while I had read it a few times, is literally a fanboy's masturbatory ode to his hero.
Even back at a naive age of 15, I questioned if Morrison really could recite any passage in any book as described in here.
And while we know more of Morrison now, it's still an interesting read.
Also, it shows how easily people can be swept up in the idolization of one person.
Still a good read though.
Nevertheless, I thought I should at least read a biography of Jim Morrison.
And now - please dear Jim Morrison fans - don't behead me but I didn't like the book at all.
In the book Jim Morrison comes across as an awfully smart but equally unlikable person (to me at least).
If he was indeed an unlikable person that's certainly not the authors' fault.
Also this kind of admiration seems to me out of place in a biography.
I was surprised (not really) at how similar his choices in literature was to me.
Nietzsche, Verlaine, Baudelaire, Rimbaud, Artaud, and a helluva lot more.
The man was really an enigma to a lot of people; I think most people assume that he was just this druggie/drunk hippie who didn't have a real thought in his head.
They make the point in this book that Morrison was trying to create high art and to treat music in the ancient Greek tradition of a joyous festival of transcendence.
And it's clear that he was isolated because of his vast interest in poetry, philosophy, music, film, art, and literature.
I used to be obsessed with Morrison, he was such a troubled genius, although I think most are. Absolutely love the Doors, have all their music. His lyrics are like nothing I've ever heard, the darkness and the insight. Did you know he got the name The Doors from Huxley's The Doors of Perception?
Fascinating look at The Doors and mainly front man Jim Morrison. Well written too, not just a rock biography.
After all it provided a resurrection for The Doors and Jim Morrison, as well as laying out the Morrison mythology and opening The Doors for the next generation of fans.No One Here was written by Jerry Hopkins, who had interviewed Morrison for Rolling Stone Magazine and after Morrison’s death found himself more affected than he thought he should be, so he wrote book.
Then Sugerman shopped the manuscript around again until he found a sympathetic editor at Warner Books, and then in unconscious synchronicity, Francis Ford Coppola’s Apocalypse Now sparked The Doors renascence in 1979/1980.No One Here lays out and outlines the basic mythology and legend of Jim Morrison that is still in operation today.
"No One Here Gets Out Alive" does not much stray from that arc, but it is the energy and passion of the tale itself that makes it such a fascinating read.Jerry Hopkins interviewed Jim Morrison for Rolling Stone several times during his brief life, and he and Danny Sugarman bring this first-hand knowledge to their thoroughly researched biography of one of classic rock's most fascinating yet most mercurial talents.
Each chapter is told as if around a campfire, recounting not only the most sordid details but also the atmosphere, the personalities present, the emotions and the dangers and the triumphs that followed Morrison and the Doors on their meteoric rise into the rock pantheon.
I enjoyed reading it, and it introduced me to some of the philosophical ideas that Jim was into, like Nietzche's ideas about classical archetypes (prompting me to look further), and just generally the idea that theatrical performances are very important and can seem to liberate people, as could have been the case in the late 60's when the Doors took the stage for the first time in coastal California.
My only possible issue with the book is that it doesn't seem to go deep enough into Morrison's life, influence, and significance.
For all the other good stuff, if you truly want to be moved by Jim and what he wanted to say,I recommend reading Nietzche along with his other favorite writers.
When I was a pre-teen I thought this is what cool was.
He died like many other rockstars, someone who just killed themself out of stupidity, and he was too addicted to drugs.
Fooling around with the police, he was just a man who couldn't stay out of trouble and wanted to live beyond the rules.
Jim Morrison you were not a bad man.
You were yourself, but the way you lived could not describe you.
I'm just one of the millions of people who listen to your music, and read an o'l biography about you.
This is just a book, you were a life, and you created music out of your own words.
It was a hugely influential book on my life way back in the day and it was kind of funny reading it from an adult's perspective.
He wanted the world and he wanted it now (then), and he got it.
Even better, the world got him.
Read Densmore's Riders on the Storm for a different perspective, and then watch Oliver Stone's beautiful (and inaccurate) film, and enjoy them all because they're all great and together provide a 360 degree perspective of a brilliant band's too short recording career.
Jim Morrison is a captivating character to read about when you're 13 years old. I saw a teenager reading it on a train recently, and told him that it might change his life. I could have told him the truth about Morrison, and how he was just a poser masquerading as a worthy icon, but he needs to figure that out on his own. However, I did recommend John Densmore's , a far more revealing portrayal of the life of a band in the sixties. Hope he gets to it someday.
In the early Eighties there were two bios everybody owned: Edie and this, the Jim Morrison bio. I'm a mid-level Doors fan (liked the first four albums and then, goodbye!) but I like any book that chronicles the old Sixties psych scene and this book doesn't disappoint. If you can handle the excessively worshipful treatment paid to an excessively annoying drunk then this book can be entertaining.
My friend Keith recommended this book to me when we were 13 years old. I thought it was great. Morrison was so charismatic. Because Morrison read Nietszche, I went & got the Viking Portable Nietszche & read "Thus Spake Zarathustra". And when my brother asked me what I wanted for Christmas I said "Weird Scenes Inside the Gold Mine".
Read this for sophomore English."I think of myself as an intelligent, sensitive human being with the soul of a clown which always forces me to blow it at the most important moments.”Jim Morrison
I was a huge doors fan when I was a teenager and I read this book over and over again. I mean I kept it tied up with string to keep it together. I think if Jim Morrison were alive today he'd be on one the reality tv shows still reciting his poetry in a drunken stupor fighting with Danny Bonaduce.
The authors clearly think the world of Morrison, but still take the trouble to show the less savory side of his character (as when the young Jim makes fun of a paraplegic in a wheelchair) and to tell us what areas remain cloaked in mystery.Having said all that, I must also report some small problems that a close reading of the book reveals.
The authors tell us that the Doors appeared at the Fillmore West in early January '67, and that is true, but then go on to say that the band played at the theatre again three weeks later.
Think I needed to read this book when I first got it a fair few years ago. Informative enough read but the author's bias got bit too much at times.
