https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36337550-the-7-deaths-of-evelyn-hardcastle
Rectify that injustice and I’ll show you the way out.I loved how unique the premise was, a murder-mystery where the main character gets to relive the same day 8 times to try and solve it but every day he's in a different body.
It was also interesting to see how the different bodies/personalities affected the story and there were twists I didn’t see coming.
I was feeling a reading slump creeping in and this book fixed it so I’m rounding it up to 5 stars.Would recommend if you’re in the mood for a mystery with a sci-fi twist to it!
The whole experience of reading this book felt like an elaborate lie to me, some made-up fantasyland I was locked in for a set number of hours a day.
This was genuinely brilliant and so intricately crafted and I’m still left marveling at how one person’s brain can contain multitudes.The Seven Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle might be focused on the story of Aiden Bishop but the stories of many others are caught up in the wheel of his, and as that wheel turns, so do these many intertwined lives and fates.
The book makes you question what you know about these characters, their lives and their secrets.
This was w i l d wow.
Reading The 7 1/2 Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle = MIND BLOWN!
Just keep reading, treading through the chapters as you go.
It will all make sense in the end!I thought I was prepared for Turton.
I read carefully, giving the book my full attention.
I even re-read parts to be sure I understood what I thought I was meant to understand.
It truly ends up being so much more.
I can not wait to see where Turton's mind takes us next.Thank you to Stuart Turton, Sourcebooks Landmark and NetGalley for a copy to read in exchange for my honest review.
4.5⭐Do you know how many books it’d taken me to finally use the word, unputdownable? I think I'm more thrilled to have finally said it than actually reading this book. What can I say, I'm a simple girl. The simple pleasures bring me the most joy. But back to the task at hand because friends, let me tell you, this. Was. Unputdownable! Hold on, let me gather my wits first, this book was very taxing on my brain.So, you’re thinking ‘a high-concept crime fiction, how derivative,’ right? Well, you hav
Hold on, let me gather my wits first, this book was very taxing on my brain.So, you’re thinking ‘a high-concept crime fiction, how derivative,’ right?
Set in the early 1920s -although it reads like late-Victorian gothic at times, with its remote setting and disturbing atmosphere with a touch of the supernatural-, the book opens with a narrator running through a forest with no idea who or where he is, wearing someone else’s dinner jacket and, he soon realises, someone else’s body.
there are so many characters, each with their own role and secrets, which creates multiple plot layers and forces different outcomes for various events, all while a murder is trying to be solved!
but its also the writing style of someone who is confident in their ability, and that kind of tone works so well this particular story and genre.
i will admit, because this story asks so much by requiring the reader to steadily keep up with everything that is going on (and trust me, theres a lot), you definitely have to be in the right mood/mindset to read this and willing to make the commitment to see this to the end.
At one level it masquerades as an Agatha Christie style golden age classic crime, and indeed many of the tropes present in that genre are here such as the diverse range of characters at a country house party.
Aiden Bishop is a guest at the party where Evelyn is murdered, he is trapped in a nightmarish Groundhog Day, destined to relive that day until he solves the crime and identifies the murderer.
Whilst I found it compulsive reading, it is not a book for everyone, I can see many finding it frustrating.
with the added little twist of the body swapping....Admittedly it is holiday time and I was not as focused on this book as I needed to be....
The good news is this book is not released until September, so I might give it another chance this summer when I can be a little more focused and give it the proper attention it probably deserves...*** i’d like to thank Net Galley and the publisher for a copy of this book in exchange for my honest review *** This was a Traveling Sister read, that left Norma, Marie Alyce, and myself baffled...
The Seven Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle is a brilliant, high-concept murder mystery that had the cogs in my mind turning from the very start (imagine waking up in the forest with no memory of who you are and immediately seeing a young woman murdered!).
The Seven Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle is a mind-bender complete with time leaps and multiple murders seen from multiple angles all on this same day that keeps repeating itself over and over again.The prose was lyrical—honestly, leaning toward flowery—but it is the intricacy of the plot and the atmosphere surrounding these characters that Turton allows to really shine here.
However, the wrongs that must be made right reach beyond a single murder… ‘’Nothing like a mask to reveal somebody’s true nature.’’The story is set in Britain, around the late 20s, early 30s from what I could gather and the thing that fascinated me most in this novel isn’t the mystery itself or the unusual background- although they are both brilliant- but the focus on human nature and its various and interminable implications.
I can’t even imagine the Herculean task of creating eight different characters to become the vessels of one person, all with their own characteristics and mannerisms and resulting in such a successful and marvelously written story.
I think, however, that the marketing has been very focused on plot twists - I was only seriously shocked by a few twists reading this book, and I’ve already forgotten what, exactly, it was.
The lead character is almost completely lacking in personality, which makes sense given the entire theme of him being absorbed into bodies, but doesn’t work, as we’re led to believe that he is in constant danger of becoming something awful but never given details to notice or a reason to care.
There’s a way of writing a compelling character with amnesia; high motivation, people around them we care about, etc, and this book doesn’t do a great job.
All the stars! Review first posted on Fantasy Literature:Debut author Stuart Turton’s The 7 Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle, originally published earlier this year in Great Britain as The 7 Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle, is an intricately plotted murder mystery, set in an isolated early 20th century English mansion, with a highly imaginative speculative element that is only gradually revealed, as our main character tries to figure out who he really is, and how to solve the mystery of Evelyn Hardcastle
Review first posted on Fantasy Literature:Debut author Stuart Turton’s The 7½ Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle, originally published earlier this year in Great Britain as The 7 Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle, is an intricately plotted murder mystery, set in an isolated early 20th century English mansion, with a highly imaginative speculative element that is only gradually revealed, as our main character tries to figure out who he really is, and how to solve the mystery of Evelyn Hardcastle’s pending death … or has her death already occurred?**I've avoided spoilers BUT I do discuss a part of the basic concept of the book in this review, some of the things that are disclosed around the 12-15% mark, not to mention in the book's blurb.
4.5 starsThe early reviews I read of this book were mixed, but the last two months, I’ve watched so many high ratings come in, I succumbed to temptation and requested.
Wow. The 7 1/2 Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle is a book you have to give a chance, and if you do, the pay-off is immense if mysteries are your cuppa.
Evelyn has been murdered before, countless times.
The writing is comforting and warm in its heaviness, and overall, I found The 7 1/2 Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle to be brilliantly plotted.
3.5 stars 🌟 I have no idea how I actually feel about this one!This was probably one of the most confusing and complex novels that I have ever read.
I actually quite enjoyed the premise of this story as it definitely was quite clever and really made me think but in the end I was a little disappointed with the “what just happened?” ending which left me feeling a little unsatisfied.
I felt a little bit cheated as I was so hoping the ending would have been just as complex and clever as the rest of the novel but for me it just seemed a little too easy.This was a Traveling Sisters Read that I read along with Berit and Marialyce.
As for the review, I honestly have no idea how to review this book, not only mystery/thriller is not my usual read or books that I review, I genuinely think that anything I say can be considered a spoiler for a book like this.
It was too late for me to really care about his predicament, I have no idea if this is the usual case with mystery/thriller books though.
I mostly enjoyed reading the way the story unfolds but It could've been a better experience if I cared more about the main character.
I don’t know that I will be able to convey into words my love of Stuart Turton’s book, “The 7 1/2 Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle.” A work of genius and for anyone who loves mysteries or the true old-fashioned “who dunnit”, this is your book.
At times, I felt totally lost but then another clue was revealed and I would be back on track.Turton’s book is not linear in the way the mystery is first revealed and ultimately solved, it will have the feel of taking one step forward and two steps back before the bigger picture becomes clear.
Solving the mystery of who killed Evelyn Hardcastle is only the beginning to unraveling the bigger mystery.
Get ready for the most unusual, overwhelmingly impressive journey through this puzzle land of  "Murder at the Masquerade Ball".  You won't need a ticket to get in, just get a copy of the book (the hard copy so you can enjoy the map of Blackheath, a cozy and quiet place to read (you won't want any distractions), time to ponder all the twists that are going to keep your brain busy!!I loved it, but needed to pace myself and take my time to enjoy all the twisty turns that the narrator, Aiden Bishop
You won't need a ticket to get in, just get a copy of the book (the hard copy so you can enjoy the map of Blackheath, a cozy and quiet place to read (you won't want any distractions), time to ponder all the twists that are going to keep your brain busy!!I loved it, but needed to pace myself and take my time to enjoy all the twisty turns that the narrator, Aiden Bishop, threw at me during his attempts to stop a murder that has already taken place!So many times while reading this one, I would have to just pause and smile at the action that was taking place because I was just so amused!!It was so atmospheric and the different players were all very intriguing and kept popping up throughout the story.
Aiden is then destined to relive the same day over and over again, until he can solve the murder of Evelyn Hardcastle.Stuart Turton has done a great job here in his debut novel.
As I said the plot is very intricate, but it's never convoluted or confusing, though it may be if you read it over several sittings.
My advice is to settle down and read it in a day or two, a big ask I know at over 500 pages, but it would definitely be worth it, just to keep things sharp in your mind.
Having said that I found 'The Seven Deaths Of Evelyn Hardcastle' to be one of my best and most rewarding reads this year.
This book is bloody FANTASTIC!Never have I been so excited about being so confused whilst reading a book!Turton is a Master.
Go into this knowing nothing besides the fact that it is okay to be reading it and not understanding anything that is going on.
I had so many theories, some panned out, others didn't but I never stopped guessing, right up until the very end.If you are looking for a completely unique mystery to get you through the holiday season, look no further!
Stop right here!
This is the book you need to read.
I cannot wait to read more from Stuart Turton.
“Now do you see? Escape isn’t to be found at the end of this dirt road; it’s through me. So run if you must. Run until you can’t stand, and when you wake up in Blackheath again and again, do so in the knowledge that nothing here is arbitrary, nothing overlooked, You’ll stay here until I decide otherwise.”  Story ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐Imagine you’re in a body you don’t know. You don’t remember your name, your age, nothing.You have an empty memory. You only remember one name - Anna and that you’ve seen a murder a
Run until you can’t stand, and when you wake up in Blackheath again and again, do so in the knowledge that nothing here is arbitrary, nothing overlooked, You’ll stay here until I decide otherwise.”  Story ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Imagine you’re in a body you don’t know.
It’s a book full of riddles, mysteries and questions you can’t answer straight away.When he or she first changed bodies on the other day I was so exited.
They all had their secrets and that made the story so much more enjoyable.
It was like a crime, a riddle and a book full of beautiful phrases I needed to capture.
This is a story of a gentleman named Aiden Bishop who finds himself caught in a nightmare loop of sorts where he has to solve a murder in order to get out.
Aiden Bishop has the opportunity to occupy the bodies of 8 different "hosts" on his pathway to potentially solving the murder.
As the book begins, he has no distinct memory of who he really is as he occupies the body of his first host, stumbling frightfully through the forest surrounding Blackheath.However, the murder to be solved this time around is that of Thomas Hardcastle's older sister, Evelyn.
(Thank god I didn’t spend money on this sh-t)Let me count the ways this is a sad, fatphobic excuse for a book.
“The platter beneath is piled high with eggs and bacon, a side helping of pork chops, a pot of tea, and a jug of milk.
Though this isn’t my body, I’m humiliated by it, appalled by the waves of flesh lapping against my hips, the way my legs rub together as I walk.”6.
Perhaps that will be explained later in the book, but I’m not willing to read the rest of it to find out.
Full review up!!5 STARS! ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐This is going to be a tough review to write. Not because I didn't love it, but what to say so that I don’t give anything away.This review is going to be short and to the point. The less you know about this book, the more you will enjoy it!The Seven Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle was a mixture of a Agatha Christie novel and the sci-fi television series, Quantum Leap.So, if you’ve never heard of Quantum Leap, the premise of the television series is the main character Dr.
The less you know about this book, the more you will enjoy it!The Seven Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle was a mixture of a Agatha Christie novel and the sci-fi television series, Quantum Leap.So, if you’ve never heard of Quantum Leap, the premise of the television series is the main character Dr. Sam Beckett (Bakula) is placed in the body of someone else and he has to correct historical mistakes during that episode.
It has all the characters that are cordially invited to Blackheath House for a masquerade.Trust me, use that to your advantage when this gets a bit complicated.The fact that this was a debut book of Stuart Turton blows my mind.
There’s certainly a strong element of whodunnit about this novel, but it’s delivered with a very large helping of something else – something I’m not willing to delve into here for fear of ruining the experience for future readers.The crime fiction element is broken down and then stitched together in a fiendishly clever way.
And by then the cast of characters had become old friends.It’s a fully satisfying twist on a murder mystery and I absolutely loved it.
I’m full of admiration for the level of imagination needed to put this book together and to keep track of the many twists and turns.
See Full review on my blogObviously, I am like the other reviewers:This book is amazing.
The plot is so complicated and full of action, you literally could not stop reading until you learn WHAT THE HELL IS ACTUALLY GOING ON!If I didn't have that unforgettably pleasant night, I'd go with 3 stars, If the end didn't disappoint me I'd go with 5 stars,So I settled at 4.
I so liked this book but I wish the ending, was a bit different.
This is me on page 501...I felt like lots of things left unanswered.
But still I am glad I have read this, GREAT book.
But, I will add some quotations from the real story to give you an idea of the writing.Let’s say you are a farm animal, a chicken perhaps, and you wake one morning to discover you are a mouse.
(Ok, I’m getting a bit “Charlotte’s Web” here.) A man is lamenting that he’s going to have to take desperate measures to win over someone’s wife, and shortly after, you hear a gunshotThe cat races past you, tearing out of the barn for the house.
4 .5  brilliantly messed up stars  Hands down, this book made me its  puppet and consumed all my thoughts throughout the day. Stuart Turton really knew how to mess with his reader's minds and I feel a bit like I am in the middle of a labyrinth trying to figure how I got to the end. One little critique is that I felt it had a tendency to be a little slow around the middle, but definitely this book earns a place on my favorites of 2018.
I don’t know that I will be able to convey into words my love of Stuart Turton’s book, “The 7 1/2 Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle.” A work of genius and for anyone who loves mysteries or the true old-fashioned “who dunnit”, this is your book.
At times, I felt totally lost but then another clue was revealed and I would be back on track.Turton’s book is not linear in the way the mystery is first revealed and ultimately solved, it will have the feel of taking one step forward and two steps back before the bigger picture becomes clear.
Solving the mystery of who killed Evelyn Hardcastle is only the beginning to unraveling the bigger mystery.
Ah, thank goodness for this book.I really loved everything about how the story was told.
It was like a movie playing inside my head.
I thought the book was going to be somehow confusing but no, it was a fun and intriguing ride.
All the characters made a strong impression and the riddles each of them carried!
Aiden was such a great character to follow and discover.
His several different POVs were a delight.I did think the book was more of a thriller and while it was not, I still enjoyed it a great deal.
Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Pinterest Mind blowing and unputdownable, this is one of those mystery thrillers that will keep you up at night until you see how it ends. How do you stop a murder that’s already happened? The Hardcastle family is hosting a masquerade at their home, and their daughter Evelyn Hardcastle will die. She will die every day until Aiden Bishop is able identify her killer and break the cycle.But every time the day begins again, Aiden wakes up each day in a differe
Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Pinterest Mind blowing and unputdownable, this is one of those mystery thrillers that will keep you up at night until you see how it ends.
If you love mysteries and closed escape room books, you will enjoy this book so much!
I am giving it 4 stars, because, even though I really, really enjoyed it, it was extremely hard for me to follow the times and bodies, and I couldn’t get along with the stories and solve the mystery together with Aiden - I always felt like I was falling behind, that put me under stress.
