https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49628.Cloud_Atlas
Robert Frobisher, writes amusing accounts of his escapades in Belgium to his lover Rufus Sixsmith while he works for a famous composer as an amanuensis.
Some plot elements of Bladerunner.Sonmi later watches the film ("disneys") The Ghastly Ordeal of Timothy Cavendish, "one of the greatest movies ever made by any director, from any age." Ray "451" Bradbury, Orwell, Huxley and Plato's Republic are referred to.
Souls cross the skies o’ time, Abbess’d say, like clouds crossin’ skies o’ the world.
Autua, Adam Ewing, Robert Frobisher, Rufus Sixsmith, Timothy Cavendish, Sonmi, Zachry, Meronym, all remain with me...
I sort of feel like I’ve failed you as a reader, but I just couldn’t suspend my critical mind for long enough to enjoy your book (“how I envied my uncritical…sisters” – I hate it when my own words come back to bite me in the ass, don’t you?).
I could go on and on (honestly I could) but I really don’t think it matters.Anyway, I’m sure one little dissenter doesn’t matter much, right?
excellent (and come to think of it, is also a story set in multiple time periods with strong musical undertones and a message of peace, love, and happiness...).
If you're not into Mitchell's prose, characters, or fancy-schmancy structure, though, you might just end up with the hackneyed bit.(view spoiler)[One thing that still confuses me about this book is the role of the Frobisher story.
As usual, my attempts to explain it to people have met with polite nods and changed subjects, but let me try: the book is like 6 perfect little novellas, arranged as Russian matroyshka dolls, and as you read, you bore in, and bore back out.
I don't know enough about the spelling reforms of French in the 20th century to say if he made the same mistake there, but I'm guessing he did.Somewhere along the way this English twat finds the diary of the American twat for no good narrative reason, because that's what passes for plot coherence.The third story is an attempt at an action spy thriller type novel set in 1975, the link with the previous one being the addressee of the letters, who passes them on to the protagonist of this one.

if the rolly-coaster ride-as descriptor weren't so trite, i would explore that here: how at first, you didn't quite know what you were getting into, as you made your ascent, but then, once you got to the top and could see what was coming, you just couldn't read through it quickly enough, and there was excitement and screams and probably some of the weaker readers vomited into their laps.
if it were just a series of short stories, butterflied and stacked on top of each other to form a book, it would be less appealing than it is in reality.
Reading Cloud Atlas is like zooming out from a point on the Earth to the edge of the universe and then back in again, as represented by those aforementioned panels.
The novel then goes even further into the future, so far in fact that it becomes indistinguishable from the past, and like the reverse zoom in the video above, the novel collapses back in on itself, ending exactly where it began.
Cloud Atlas is a brilliantly constructed novel delineating the cyclicality of human civilization and it is written by someone who has immediately become one of my favorite authors.
Sheesh, let me think about it as I lie here on the imaginary psychiatrist's couch in Freudian times.You see, its 'revolutionary structure' and all - it is basically six stories, five of which are arranged like concentric rings around one central uninterrupted story, slowly moving from A to Z as the stories go along (from Adam to Zachry), - leads even the author to question,
War, Robert, is one of humanity's two eternal companions."This book is a message, yes.
One of the most outstanding, hugely epic sagas ever.
There seem to be six distinct writers in "Cloud Atlas"--distinct, original tableaux: their compilation suggesting that the boundaries of writing are endless.
Mitchell is authentic in every story.
But that they were all borne from one fountainhead--from one single and chameleonic (probably the most chameleonic I have encountered since Peruvian Mario Vargas Llosa's) mind--this is the reason the novel is now a classic.The movie is a very adequate companion piece, as the myriad loose ends are genuinely brought forth and rendered poetic.
Really truly & madly love 'em both!
It starts out with a guy in the 1800s on a whaling ship, or some s***, and then it just ends, just stops in the middle of the sentence and then jumps to the next story, in 1931 England.Jules: So what’s that got to do with the dude in the 1800s?Vincent: That’s what I’m trying to tell you, but listen, OK, then the story shifts to 1975 and this chick who is investigating energy corporation crime and this scientist who gets chased for writing a report.Jules: Go on.Vincent: Then it shifts to the future and this old guy in England who’s getting pinched by these small time hoods –Jules: Stop, just stop, you’ve already f****** lost me.Vincent: [laughing] I know, I know, but wait, then the story shifts to even further in the future to Korea and where people are made, produced, manufactured, whatever the f*** to be slaves, like working in McDonald’s, except it’s not McDonald’s it like a future Chinese McDonald’s –Jules: Serving up a Royale wit cheese![Both laugh]Vincent: Right, right, so then it shifts to way far in the future and I think it’s on Hawaii and they speak this pigeon English –Jules: OK, ok, wait.
Using a style inspired by Calvino’s If on a winter’s night a traveler…, which I would highly recommend, and a constantly fluctuating set of language, diction, dialect, and form to flood each individual story with nuance, Mitchell delivers a work that is vastly impressive and imaginative without being impassive as each story takes on a life of its own in a perfect blending of literary musings and exciting page-turning plot that will keep you on the edge of your seat.While explaining this novel to a friend, I labeled it as being “
(i'd love to hire 6 authors to independently write 6 stories set in different time periods, throw the whole mess together as one work, and watch people find all kinds of connections and deeper meanings.
they could.)now don't get me wrong, i love all that 'russian doll' tale-within-a-tale borgesian-wormhole fuckoff, but the fact remains: all that clever stuff is worthless if not in service of a few well told tales (or some seriously innovative ideas: while mitchell has fun with a clever structure, there ain't nothing innovative here.
The stories themselves are not strong enough to stand on their own: the Louisa Rey mystery is intentionally bland, but the Orison of Somni 451 is formulaic to the bone, where all characters are reduced to familiar stereotypes: The tyranical Big Brother regime and the opressed sentient beings who should not be capable of complex thought but are, which dates back to Yevgeny Zamyatin's brillian novel We, which has been written in...1921, going through more famous examples - Brave New World, 1984, movies such as the original Planet of the Apes, THX1138, etc etc etc.
She also has a memory of a car crash (perhaps like Luisa 93)?) (hide spoiler)]Kazuo Ishiguro tries something slightly similar and less ambitious in his short story collection, NocturnesSomni is apparently a fan of Jorge Luis Borges; she has read Funes' Remembrances - a nod to Funes, His Memory, which is in Artificies.Who has comet birthmarks: (view spoiler)[(1) No one (2) Robert Frobisher (3) Luisa Rey (4) Timothy Cavendish (5) Somni-451 (6) Meronym - but in the film, it's Zachry (why??)Mind you, the first time I read it, I expected it to be Zachry who had it.
Bulgarian review below/Ревюто на български е по-долу You probably wonder now and then if the chords of your soul reverberate through time. I do too. Or if those 21 grams caught in several dozen kilos of flesh fly away like startled little birds when our time to go strikes. Maybe that’s also possible. We probably haven’t awaken to such a degree of consciousness as to know the answer of this question and to be drawn to some hypothetical ‘beyond’ instead to the quite material and palpable ‘now’.‘C
След тринайсет години ще се срещнем отново в Грешам, след десет ще се озова отново в същата тази стая, стиснал същия този пистолет, ще съчинявам същото това писмо с решителност, съвършена като многоглавия ми секстет...Sunt lacrimæ rerum.“Самият Мичъл в интервю казва, че зад романа не е имало първоначален грандиозен замисъл, а просто е искал да напише най-шашавото и мащабно нещо, което му хрумне.
Мисля, че това доказва почти желязното правило, че колкото пò не ти пука какво ще каже някой за работата ти и, освободен от амбицията да „постигнеш нещо“ с нея, просто се оставяш на някакъв вътрешен ритъм, толкова повече сияят резултатите.Разказът, който най-много ми хареса, беше този на Сонми-451.
Clever
:) Like this Cloud Atlas Sextet musical piece written by one of the characters, each story is told by a different voice, and cuts off abruptly (sometimes in mid-sentence) until the central story.
Adam Ewing's journal is discovered by Robert while he is fishing around in the Ayrs' home, looking for old books to steal and sell.Part 3: It's 1975, and Rufus Sixsmith is now an older man who meets a journalist, Luisa Rey, in California when they're stuck together in a broken elevator.

If that’s all that he accomplished here, then it’d just be a really clever way to structure a novel, but it’s the way that Mitchell hit six completely different tones yet uses the same themes in each that the book really shines.I’m beyond impressed with the way he made each story feel like it’s own separate tale.
Themes of slavery and people being controlled in one way or another along with depictions of misused or corrupted power come up again and again, but whether it feels like serious dystopian sci-fi or a beach read thriller, Mitchell makes it all hang together until it really does feel like one epic tale.
The precarity of his health turns him toward introspection in morality disertations in his journal, a journal that will be discovered by the protagonist of the second story ( a plot device that will be repeated with each new main character) Letters from Zedelghem  is set in Belgium in 1930 and follow the picaresque adventures of Robert Frobisher, a young rake spurned by his rich family and forced to abandon his musical studies and live outside the law.
Cloud Atlas is a book which is not particularly easy to read, requires patience and perseverance, but is ultimately very rewarding.
The novel's language changes and develops with time and every new character introduced is as fresh and interesting as all those who came before.
It is also not a novel that I can adequately put into any kind of review, so I suggest instead that you watch this beautiful trailer created for the 2012 film adaptation - it convinced me to read it, after all:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KgI6Ee...

The first assignment the teacher gave us was to look back on that beautiful summer and draw our best memory.
We had met each other on holidays in Rhodes, and given that we were the only two Flemish kids there, at an age where our differences didn’t matter as much as the games we could play together, we got along really well.
The teacher saw many drawings with children playing with balls, with houses and trees and even flowers in the breeze, but he only saw one with a bee.
13. Cloud Atlas, David MitchellCloud atlas, c2004, David (David Stephen) Mitchell (1969)characters: Adam Ewing, Autua, Dr. Goose, Robert Frobisher, Rufus SixsmithAbstract: A postmodern visionary who is also a master of styles and genres, David Mitchell combines flat-out adventures, a Nabokovian love of puzzles, a keen eye for character, and a taste for mind-bending philosophical and scientific speculation in the tradition of Umberto Eco and Philip K. Dick. The result is brilliantly original fict
The result is brilliantly original fiction that reveals how disparate people connect, how their fates intertwine, and how their souls drift across time like clouds across the sky.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیست و چهارم ماه آگوست سال 2014 میلادیعنوان: اطلس ابر؛ اثر: دیوید میچل؛ ترجمه: علی منصوری، مشخصات نشر: تهران، روزگار، 1392، در 680 ص، شابک: 9789643744816؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان انگلیسی قرن 21مداستان ویژگیها و شباهت انسانها را در شش عصر متفاوت به تصویر میکشد.
در قرن شانزده میلادی که در اروپا کتابهای جغرافیا با نقشه انتشار یافت، صورت اطلس را بر پشت جلد کتابها ترسیم کردند، در حالیکه او کره زمین را حمل میکند و از آن پس کتابهای نقشه جغرافیا را اطلس خواندندفیلمی از این کتاب ساخته شده، فیلمنامه از شش داستان مجزا و برای شش مقطع زمانی متفاوت نوشته شده است.
My advice is to approach this when you're looking for something complicated & engaging where every little detail has the potential to mean something later on.The book is comprised of the stories of 6 different characters, all of which are related to each other in ways that may not be obvious from the get go.I must mention that I had a really rough go of reading the opening section titled The Pacific Journal of Adam Ewing, but I implore you to keep reading if you happen to share in having that same experience.
Which is why I am refraining from including any quotes giving away the theme.I suppose everyone has already heard enough about how Cloud Atlas consists of six different stories and how it is structured in an innovative manner.
And at last there are connections at a conceptual level which bind and unify the entire thing.Sadly, an undiscerning reader may not notice much going on beyond the structure of the novel and perhaps label it as gimmicky.
And here we have Mitchell who sounds like six different authors within one novel.
One morning while reading Cloud Atlas I was leafing through The Lie that Tells the Truth: A Guide to Writing Fiction by John Dufresne and I opened to a page talking about how you have to leave room in a book for the readers to do some of the work.
Maybe Dufresne says this, but I was only leafing through the book while going to shelve it, but I think that this is one of the most important parts of a novel and something that maybe everyone else is going to be like, 'well duh', but that I only have somewhere in the back of my mind and rarely put words to the dim thought.Two days ago I wrote the first paragraph.
Each of these storylines is extremely different in tone, style, and character – we have the travel journal of an American in Australia in like the 1600s (maybe; I'm awful with history); then letters from a British composer in Brussels to his former lover; then a sort of thriller about a young journalist in California in the sixties trying to unravel a dastardly corporate cover-up involving nuclear testing facilities; then a present-day caper story; then a dystopian-future piece told over the course of a long interview with a woman who has been sentenced to death; then a crazy post-apocalyptic oral history.

A disinherited, arrogant and musically gifted Robert Frobisher chronicles the making of his avant garde 'Cloud Atlas' sextet in a series of letters addressed to his dear friend from distant Zedelghem.Dauntless Luisa Rey doggedly pursues the truth and exposes the nexus between the Nixon administration and corporate corruption, emerging victorious against the tide of adverse circumstances.
And master puppeteer David Mitchell pulls all their strings from the background.As she delights in her newfound admiration for the sweeping scope of this masterpiece and Mitchell's ambitious foray into the Matryoshka-doll structured story-telling, she doesn't fail to notice the accusations of gimmickry and pretensions, of self-indulgent writing, of 'trying too hard', of 'contrivances' and acknowledges the legitimacy of these opinions.
