https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3344411-every-man-dies-alone
«Μητέρα, ο Φύρερ σκότωσε τον γιο μου…»Βερολίνο 1940. Αρχές του Βπαγκοσμίου πολέμου. Το χιτλερικό καθεστώς στο απώτερο μεγαλείο του. Η ναζιστική αθλιότητα και η τρομοκρατία του Γράιχ παραλύουν και ματώνουν την ανθρωπότητα. Εστιάζουμε στους Γερμανούς πολίτες την εποχή εκείνη. Συγκεκριμένα σε μια πολυκατοικία και τους ενοίκους της σε μια λαϊκή γειτονιά του Βερολίνου. Οι ένοικοι αντιπροσωπεύουν όλες τις πολιτικές και κοινωνικές τάσεις. Ο συνταξιούχος,αδέκαστος δικαστής Φρόμ, με γνώμονα των πράξεων τ
Συγκεκριμένα σε μια πολυκατοικία και τους ενοίκους της σε μια λαϊκή γειτονιά του Βερολίνου.
Δεν ενδιαφέρεται για τίποτε άλλο πέρα απο το το τομάρι του και το κέρδος.
Παρέα του ένας θλιβερός απατεώνας εθισμένος στο τζόγο και τις καταχρήσεις που έχει ξεχάσει παιδιά και γυναίκα προσπαθώντας να επιβιώσει με κάθε παρασιτικό τρόπο και να γλιτώσει τη στράτευση.
Η αλόγιστη προσπάθεια αντίστασης του ζευγαριού είναι εξ αρχής απέλπιδη και καταδικασμένη.
Τόσο ο Ότο όσο και η Άννα μέσα στα κελιά και την απομόνωση μεταλλάσσονται.
«Μητέρα, ο Φύρερ σκότωσε τον γιο μου…»Η πρώτη κάρτα των Κβάνγκελ ενάντια στο χιτλερικό καθεστώς.
His 1932 novel Little Man, What Now was a popular success and Hollywood turned it into a film.
IN 24 DAYS Ditzen wrote Every Man Dies Alone based on their story.
It was not translated and published here until 2009.You may turn your head, thinking this is just more Holocaust literature.
And sometimes the sounds emanating from the doctor were dark and heavy, and Quangel would feel a pain in his chest, and it would be as though he was a little boy again sitting in church with his mother, with something grand--the whole of life--ahead of him, and then Reichhardt would say, "Johann Sebastien Bach."What amazed me, and why I led off with the author's life story, is that this is not simply a genre of a book; it's not just a book about WWII or Nazis or an anti-Nazi movement.
The author Hans Fallada, with native name Rudolf Wilhelm Friedrich Ditzen, is born on July 21st 1893 in Greifswald and he died on Feb 5th 1947 in Berlin.
Hans Fallada manages with his book “Every Man Dies Alone” a great story during the time of the Nazi regime.
The current events in this story are well researched and it is indeed based on true events of the Quangel family, whose Gestapo file is the basis for this novel.
This book is consequently touching and very atmospheric written and impresses me with its moving story.
Consequently this book is an absolutely timeless masterpiece for me.
Θα μπορούσαμε να δημιουργούμε καλύτερους πολίτες, αν σε ένα εκπαιδευτικό σύστημα αντί για εξετάσεις είχαμε εργασίες με υποχρεωτική ανάγνωση τέτοιων συγκλονιστικών βιβλίων.
Otto and Anna Quangel in the novel are based on Otto and Elise Hampel who, to begin with, are not by any means hostile to the National Socialists.
In the novel it is the death of Otto and Anna’s son that sparks the change of stance towards the Nazis.
The brilliant achievement of this novel is to show how two simple working class people did oppose the Nazis, but, from every practical point of view, in an utterly futile manner.
Anna herself questions the “smallness” of the gesture but Otto points out that, if caught, they will pay with their lives and no one can sacrifice more than her own life.
And third reason and maybe the most important is the novel is based on true events and Fallada changed only some details.Literary Anna and Otto Quangel are based on Elise and Otto Hampel’ case.
The married couple through almost two years were delivering hand-wrote cards calling people to resistance against the Third Reich.
There are facts and the novel is fictionalized account of their life with some rather cosmetic changes.It’s captivating and fascinating story and though I knew the outcome from the start I loved reading it.
The moment Otto Quangel finds out how many from over two hundred postcards he wrote with his untrained hand really reached its readers is truly heartbreaking.
But for a husband and wife living through WW2 in Berlin they refuse to be intimidated by a despicable regime, and after losing their son in battle, set out discreetly to make their own personal feelings well known to a greater audience, whilst creating wrath within the Gestapo.Otto and Anna Quangel are a hard working couple, laborious, unsociable, thrifty to the point of stinginess, and originally not hostile to the National Socialists.
In fact there are huge chunks of the novel where Anna and Otto disappear completely, switching attention to the inner workings of the Gestapo and the fearful people who happen to have a run-ins with them.
Loved it.
Then one fine day, the death news of their only son arrived and Anna in a bursts of sorrow shrieked, “you and your Fuhrer!”.
Would Otto walk the mutinous path had his son arrived safely home?Hans Fallada who suffered through his own personal war as Rudolf Ditzen, brings the laudable efforts of Elise and Otto Hampel (1931), a real life couple who wrote anonymous postcards and leaflets to educate people about the ongoing atrocities ,informing to not buying Nazi papers and resist from participating in the war.
English readers have had to wait 60 years to explore the 1947 novel in which Otto Quangel, a factory foreman (Ron Cook) and his wife Anna (Margot Leicester) believe themselves morally obliged to take on the full might of the Nazis.When their son is killed "for Fuhrer and Fatherland", the Quangels begin to write anonymous postcards, denouncing the war and the regime, and leave them on the stairwells of public buildings in Berlin.
It is about the quiet moral triumph of a seemingly inconsequential couple - it points to a courage which lay in the hearts of most true Germans, if only angst and overwhelming fear hadn't been allowed to gain the upper hand.Cast:Otto Quangel .....
Τι ειρωνεία της τύχης από τη μια στην ίδια πόλη είχες να υποκλιθείς στο μεγαλείο του Χανς Φαλάντα και στον πραγματικά μαεστρικό τρόπο να περάσει ένα βαθύ και ηχηρό μήνυμα για όλους εκείνους που επιμένουν να κρατούν τους λαούς φυλακισμένους στο σκοτάδι, στο μίσος στο αίμα στοιχείο χάρη στο οποίο το βιβλίο θα είναι πάντα επίκαιρο και από την άλλη έπρεπε να πεις αντίο στον πιο αγαπημένο σου λογοτεχνικό αστυνομικό ήρωα τον Μπέρνι Γκούντερ οι περιπέτειες του οποίου ξεκίνησαν στο Βερολίνο.
Κάτι τέτοιο νομίζω ήθελε να πει και ο Fallada με το βιβλίο του.Θα ήθελα να σας μιλήσω πιο πολύ γι αυτό το βιβλίο απλά να μου επετρέψετε να το κάνω μια άλλη στιγμή.
Otto Quangel starts writing postcards with insults against Hitler, the Nazis, and the war and delivers them (unobserved) in office buildings in the hope that as many people as possible will read them and rethink, and thus perhaps bring about a speedy end to the dictatorship – an approach, as it turns out, doomed to failure.
The main storyline (there are quite a few others) is supposedly based on the real case of Otto and Elise Hampel who also wrote and distributed postcards and where executed in 1943.It took me quite a while before I became comfortable with this 700 page novel by Hans Fallada (my first one since I don’t know how long).
The characters were full-fleshed, fully realized, flawed and magnificent at the same time.
The novel rushed towards its inevitable conclusion with grace, the characters rushed towards their inescapable fate with a lucidity that leaves us in awe and teaches us a thing or two about the meaning of courage.The author wrote this novel in 24 days and never lived to see its publication.
È come se una zanzara volesse combattere contro un elefanteLo scrittore tedesco Rudolf Ditzen, noto come Hans Fallada, tossicodipendente, alcolizzato, finito più volte in galera e in manicomio, scrisse nel 1946 in soli 24 giorni le 700 pagine del romanzo, basandosi sui fascicoli provenienti dalla Gestapo sulla vera storia dei coniugi Otto ed Elise Hampel (Quangel nel libro), lui operaio e lei casalinga, che decisero di opporsi al nazismo semplicemente lasciando per le vie di Berlino cartoline che invitavano i tedeschi a ribellarsi al nazismo.Un atto che sembra semplice e banale ai nostri occhi, ma che a quel tempo portava senza indugi alla pena capitale.Cosa facevano gli abitanti di Berlino quando trovavano casualmente le cartoline scritte e lasciate faticosamente dai Quangel?
has there ever been a book more in need of an editor?
it reads as if fallada drew up a rigid outline and just wrote out the shit.
y'ever hear the phrase, 'get into a scene at the last possible moment and get out at the earliest possible moment?' -- goose the reader, hans.
skip the walk to the apartment, just land us right there and force your reader to make sense of it as it happens.
we, the reader, know that the guy's foreman at work is otto quangel, the actual card dropper.
and then i read that fallada wrote the book in 24 days.
Agghiacciante. Allucinante.E' un romanzo.Ma è stato scritto quasi "in diretta" (è uscito nel 1947).Quindi qualcuno che si opponeva c'era.Quindi era possibile opporsi.Quindi era possibile essere contro e non accettare acriticamente tutto quello che imponeva il regime nazista, per paura.Quindi è ancora più orribile quello che è successo.(lo so che questo discorso è da anime candide, e non tiene conto di tutte le variabile dell'hic et nunc. ma rimane il fatto che opporsi era possibile)
Θα συμφωνήσω απολύτως με μία κριτική που διάβασα εδώ μέσα. Αυτά τα βιβλία θα έπρεπε να διδάσκονται στο σχολείο. Ανάγνωσμα για γερά στομάχια......
After the war, Fallada was given the Gestapo file on Otto and Elise Hampel and used their brave, but doomed, campaign of low-key opposition as the basis for his novel.
Names are changed here and there, as are the way the characters meet their fates, and Fallada uses the novelist’s prerogative to dramatize his narrative, but the main characters are based on real people from the defiant Quangels to the tenacious and formidable Gestapo Inspector Escherich right down to the utterly despicable Nazi Judge Feisler towards the end.
Libro bellissimo, senza dubbio, ma questo lo è di più, perché ha accenti di vita vera e gli esseri umani li sente quasi respirare.Il libro trae spunto da una vicenda reale, ossia il processo e la condanna a morte di due coniugi berlinesi, Otto ed Elise Hampel (nel libro Otto e Anna Quangel), ghigliottinati nel 1943 per alto tradimento, dopo aver scritto e distribuito delle cartoline postali che invitavano la popolazione a reagire e opporsi al nazismo.Attorno a queste due persone e alla loro vicenda si muovono moltissime altre figure, costruendo in tal modo una trama e un ordito che creano un quadro vivissimo di ciò che doveva essere la vita in quegli anni di obnubilamento delle coscienze.
By the time the ending credits rolled, I remember, I was feeling as if the air had been sucked out of the room, so I ran to the balcony, hands on the railing, gasping for air and trying to find my composure again, while my girlfriend at the time was wondering whether it would be a good idea to call an ambulance.
He knew perfectly well that, when it comes to the Third Reich, the mere depiction of everyday life is enough to bring home the extreme atrocities of what must be the darkest era of mankind.Based on the real documents of the case of a married couple in Berlin, who had their own way of resistance during Hitler's reign, Fallada tells a story of courage, weakness and dread.
This is an absolutely devastating novel about Otto and Anna Quangel, an older working-class German couple during World War II who wrote anti-Nazi messages on postcards and left them around Berlin.
The two work on their own, not part of any larger resistance movement, and they have no way of knowing whether their messages are having any effect.
It gets off to a slow start, as the Quangels start their work and the authorities begin to take notice and sift through various suspects to find the culprits.
- Μήπως είναι, πως να το πω, κάπως λίγο αυτό που θέλεις να κάνεις?Μπορεί να είχε δίκιο: Λίγο ή πολύ, κανείς δεν μπορεί να ρισκάρει τίποτα περισσότερο από την ίδια του τη ζωή.
Κάθε άνθρωπος έχει διαφορετικές ικανότητες και διαφορετικό χαρακτήρα - το σημαντικό είναι να αντιστέκεσαι.Όλη η ουσία αυτού του βιβλίου βρίσκεται στην παραπάνω φράση.
Εξαιρετική αφήγηση και αναβίωση μιας εποχής και της αντίστασης που πρόβαλλαν στο ναζισμό κάποιοι -λίγοι- συνηθισμένοι άνθρωποι.
Το προτείνω ανεπιφύλακτα και χαίρομαι ιδιαίτερα που το 1ο βιβλίο για το '17 αποδείχθηκε διαμαντάκι.
This is a magnificent work of fiction, based on a true story.
Fallada evokes emotion repeatedly as he tells the story of an elderly couple, making war against Hitler, knowing they can't win, but achieving a sense of nobility beyond that which most of us even aspire to.It is not a perfect book, as one would expect from a 500+ page novel written in 24 days and apparently never edited.
There are extra characters and sub-plots that perhaps were not needed.
But this is quibbling.
It's a great read which will stay with you long after the last page is turned.
I value this novel for good psychological portrayal of ordinary German citizens who desperately tried to remain sane during years of insanity. Their silent struggle, both tragic and heroic, is supported by mutual devotion and love, which is all that is ultimately left. This is my favourite of Fallada's novels.
There is an enormous number of brutal and cruel deaths here but nobody reading a book set in Germany in 1942 can be surprised at that and yet the surprise for me is the fact that I was left feeling positive.There was horror, cruelty and monstrous injustice but the ability of love to overcome betrayal, rejection and seeming hopelessness are writ large here.
Εξαιρετικό!! Ένα από τα καλύτερα βιβλία που έχω διαβάσει ποτέ!! Είναι τόσο πλούσιο σε αισθήματα και εικόνες που δεν μπορώ έτσι απλά να το περιγράψω με λέξεις. Χαίρομαι πραγματικά που διάβασα ένα τέτοιο αριστουργηματικό βιβλίο, που παρά τον πόνο και το θάνατο που περιέχει, σε γεμίζει αισιοδοξία και θάρρος για τη ζωή βλέποντας πως υπήρξαν, υπάρχουν και θα υπάρχουν άνθρωποι όπως ο Ότο και η Άννα Κβάνγκελ.
Καιρό είχα να απολαύσω τόσο πολύ βιβλίο. Ο Φάλαντα αφηγείται μια αληθινή αντιστασιακή ιστορία στο ναζιστικό Βερολίνο δημιουργώντας εντυπωσιακά ζωντανούς χαρακτήρες και πετυχαίνοντας τη διατήρηση ενός διακριτικού αλλά απτόητου ρυθμού που βοηθά το βιβλίο να φανεί πολύ μικρότερο από όσο πραγματικά είναι (650 σελίδες). Το μεγαλύτερο κατόρθωμά του όμως κατά τη γνώμη μου είναι ότι, εν μέσω βαρβαρότητας που φυσικά δεν αποσιωπάται ή λειαίνεται, επιδεικνύει μια ξεκάθαρη και συχνά ξεκαρδιστική παρωδιακή διάθεση απέναντι στα ελαττώματα της ανθρώπινης φύσης (δειλία, απληστία, φθόνος, χαμέρπεια) και κυρίως στους ανθρώπους που συναποτελούσαν και κινούσαν τη ναζιστική μηχανή.
I read this while I was also reading Robert Fisk's  The Great War for Civilisation The Conquest of the Middle East . Bad idea. Very bad idea. Note to self: Reading two depressing books at the same time does not do good things to one's mood. There has been a surge of interest in the German experience of World War II, particularly the experience of those who tried to resist the war mongering. This novel joins works like  The Song Before It Is Sung A Novel ,  Valkyrie The Plot To Kill Hitler , and
Note to self: Reading two depressing books at the same time does not do good things to one's mood.
The Nazis were brutal bullies; the resisters were good hearted but ineffectual.
, that infamous Berkeley experiment where ordinary men off the street turned into brutal thugs when placed in charge of another group of men off the street and told to treat them like prisoners?
What I liked about the book was its portrayal of ordinary people, holding fast to their beliefs.
I'd like to believe that it's possible.
I also liked how it raised the eternal question: what form should resistance take?
Αναμφίβολα ένα πολύ ενδιαφέρον βιβλίο με καλή γραφή.
Συνήθως διαβάζουμε για την εποχή του Β Παγκοσμίου Πολέμου βιβλία που αφορούν τα γεγονότα έξω από τη Γερμανία, στα στρατόπεδα συγκέντρωσης ή άλλες χώρες κατεχόμενες από τη Γερμανία.
Ειδικά οι τελευταίες σελίδες είναι συγκλονιστικές.
Ένα άλλο σημείο που με γονάτισε συναισθηματικά είναι η πτώση του επιθεωρητή που έχει αναλάβει την ανεύρεση του υπεύθυνου για τη συγγραφή των αντιστασιακών κειμένων - το πώς από πανίσχυρο όργανο επιβολής της τάξης γίνεται ένα ανδρείκελο υποκείμενο στην πλήρη γελοιοποίηση όταν βρίσκεται σε δυσμένεια από τους ανωτέρους του.
Αριστουργημα! Καταπληκτικός Φαλαντα αξιζει να διαβαστεί απο όλους!
