https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/159628.The_Lonely_Doll
When the formerly-independent Edith resists Mr Bear's domination, she is punished, never more severely than on the instance in which she attempts to shed her submissive, child-like trappings and dress as an adult, putting on lipstick and highheeled shoes.
The text story is creepy enough on its own -- a little doll all alone is so desperate for friends that she lets in strangers who quickly take control of her home and life.
my thanks to boyd for answering my call for "more creepy doll books". it seems everyone knew about this but me. and its great! i got the two still in print, and will track down the rest. and while i was buying them, my cashier-friend commanded me to read the bio, which i will also do. this book is beautiful and sad and just so well-posed. theres a lot more conveyed than meets the eye at first glance. these photos need to be really examined, not just paged through. another book i am baffled that children are exposed to.
how many of you were sucked into Dare Wright's world as a child?
Black and white photographs of a doll stepping into an old abandoned house, meeting a friendly old turtle, riding on his back to the outside, befriending 2 teddy bears, a nice one and a grumpy one...at one point she takes off her clothes and they dress her in fern leaves...what a world.
I think we should start a Dare Wright Club and call it Under the Influence.
note: the edition I read (and still have) was not pink...but black and white and grey and rather imposing.
As soon as she opened it, she immediately called it weird and creepy and decided to read it on the spot.
There's a bit of pictures of creepy Mr. Bear right up on Edith' behind.
There's a bit of tension in the book that not all is right in this household.
He looks like such a creepy peeping tom, like he'd been staring at Edith for a while.
It's all so voyeuristic in a very disturbing way.How did Mr. Bear manage to infiltrate Edith's house?
Or maybe it's just the time we live in that made me look at this book the wrong way.
Go check out my review and video of me reading this book out loud on my booktube channel http://YouTube.com/peterlikesbooks
- starring a disturbed, sad doll as two terrifying teddy bears, the youngest of whom is blank faced making him even more scary, and an adult bear, who has what can only be described as a crazy expression, move into the doll's house so she's no longer alone.The phrase "Just wait and see what fun we'll have!" uttered by the bears is one of the most haunting lines I've ever read.When the doll and the little bear behave like all kids (I assume the doll herself is supposed to be a kid - the alternative is that she's mentally handicapped.

Peter Monn read this to us on his bookTube channel and it was an unforgettable once in a lifetime experience go and enjoy it at: http://youtube.com/peterlikesbooks
The beautifully constructed photographs evoke in turn loneliness and subjugation, and the text itself tells us how Edith is so lonely, that she lets complete strangers inside the house and take over her life.
There's no one else in the world but them (and a couple of rude pigeons).Is the doll an adult or a child?
If Edith is a child, then it's equally odd that she would just happen to let two bears enter into her life.
Then again, having heard a few things about Wright's life I suppose I couldn't have expected anything less.
Wright's world is sad and weird, but I think I like it just the way it is.
I had this book as a child -- still own it as a matter of fact.
I loved this book as a child and I read it to my children.
I think most of the reviews are just being over analytical and trying to put a human spin on what is obviously a fictional children's book -- it is after all, a doll and a couple of stuffed bears -- ok, one is a Stieff but still.
Plus, I found an awful lot of books involving subject matter that I would have nixed for my 70's children!
This one disturbed me when I was a child, although the pictures were amazing.
I both loved this book and found it creepy.
I don't know if the creepiness was what appealed to me, actually.
I read a feature on Dare Wright in Tin House years ago that confirmed that she was herself lonely and a bit odd.
This is in that category of books that were very influential but about which I have mixed feelings.
The photographs themselves and the doll (why are certain dolls creepy?) are well done and very innovative.
I have always responded to children's books that are illustrated with photographs of toys, dolls, live animals and people.
They have been a big inspiration for my own photography and illustration.
I’m conflicted about this book: my five year old daughter is a little obsessed with it right now, and it’s not hard to see why.
There’s something kinky about the bear spanking Edith.
I mean, there’s something kinky about spanking in general, which is why it’s tricky when it comes up in picture books.
Also, trying to figure out what the roles really are—are the bears her friends?
It seems like Edith is in the submissive role in an abusive co-dependent relationship.
But she definitely wants to know what the hell is up with the spanking.
Anyways, I don't belong to the group who read this classic as a kid, feeling all warm and fuzzy, because this is my first time reading it, but I can clearly see how off-putting it might be when revisiting 'The Lonely Doll' as an adult.Back to the book:Once when Mr. Bear goes away for a short while, Edith and Little Bear excitedly explore the house, trying on high heels, lipstick and a new dress.
In "Lonely Doll" it's the bears that come for a seemingly friendly visit and then decide to stay indefinitely.
Never read The Lonely Doll as a kid, somehow acquired a biography of Dare Wright (still unread), saw this displayed in the kiddie section at the library and snatched it up.
I read it this morning because I needed to take it back to the library.
The text is simple and brief and the photographs are dreamy black-and-white shots.I think as a kid I would have thought it was just a cute story and been inspired to tell a similar story with my dolls, but as an adult I found it terribly sad and a little creepy.
This is not a book I would encourage anyone to give to a child. It's creepy and strange and makes you think of something nasty in the woodshed. It's the sort of book that booksellers enjoy showing to one another, in a "I bet you haven't ever seen anything like this" way. I don't say that it would scar a child for life, just that once you start thinking something is strange you can't stop thinking that. Library copy
There is something off-putting and unintentionally creepy about this book and I’m not sure if that’s a bad thing. I love the element of photography instead of illustrations. I’m not sure if this is an ideal book for a child but I found it to be something different which is always fun. Personally it reminds me of old stop motion short films I used to watch as a small child.
I’ve heard about this book for years, but I finally read it because Betsy Bird recently featured it on her podcast. It’s....something else. o_O
why. is. this. book. so. highly. rated. it . is. creepy. as all. get. out. Mr. bear us an abusive person and has the personality of the killer from the movie 7.
Beautiful. I wish I'd had this book when I was small. The photographic illustrations are lovely, and the story is so gentle and profoundly personal.
I had heard the book The Lonely Doll mentioned in a discussion of children's books that people found creepy and decided that I had to see for myself.
I ordered some to see what they were like.The stories in these picture books are simple, told in short text with large black and white photographs of the doll and other characters posed in situations, acting out the story.
The first book was originally published in 1957, and that explains the only action in the book that I thought might be an issue, when the doll and her friend Little Bear get spanked after doing something naughty.
The Lonely Doll by Dare WrightThis book was originally published in 1957 and has content which may have been more acceptable then, but could be considered offensive now.
The story is of a doll named Edith who has everything she could possibly want, except friends.
She prays for friends each night until, one day, Mr. Bear and Little Bear come into her life.
Mr. Bear assumes an authoritative, fatherly role over Edith and they become a family.
However, when Edith misbehaves, Mr. Bear uses corporal punishment to deal with her.
"...I know when a naughty little girl needs a spanking," he says.
I was reading this story book because I learned of the biography of the author, Dare Wright, by Jean Nathan.
The biography suggests that the story book series reflects a sinister, sexual tone because in nearly every photo frame one can see the doll's underwear, and because in one scene the doll is being spanked.
I read the book for the first time now, as an adult, with the biographer's idea lodged in my brain, but I have to admit I do not see any sinister, sexual overtones that would be apparent to a child.
This is a book that needs two reviews.
Review One: I have no childhood memories of this book.
Review Two: As I said earlier, I have no childhood memories of this book.
As a result, this is a book that I enjoy just knowing it out there in the world.
It is well done enough to be more than just an odd book.
Overall, a decent and welcome children's book to know it out there.
I would also recommend Jean Nathan's book "The Secret Life of The Lonely Doll" a biography of the author.
My review is for the whole series: Of course the doll's name, Edith, makes it very dated, but the name is obviously why this book first appealed to me as a child.
But I still like the book for the illustrations - the idea of placing a doll and teddy bear(s) in real home/country settings and using the photographs to help tell the story was always appealing to me, and I emulated the technique in creating a story for my children at least once.
Of course the date read is just a guess, and I've read it several times since the first few times way back when.
This book is hauntingly beautiful.
The photographs are wonderful yet also a bit creepy.
The story is about a doll who lives alone in a house and Wishes for some friends.
Then along comes Mr. Bear and Little Bear to live with her and be her friends.
They have all sorts of fun and adventures.
Edith and Little Bear also get into trouble on occasion and Mr. Bear has to spank them!
It's a truly interesting phenomenon of a book and the story behind the author is even more intriguing.
Apparently she has quite a story herself.
This was another book in a box from my sister.
I almost just logged this and put it in a pile.
But I looked through and then read it.
This was a wonderful story!
I really like the simplicity of it all.
Nowadays, I imagine this would be seen as too simple, but it works.
It's a good story!A doll is lonely.
I really like that the photographs.
While we have all seen books that use real photos, this is the only one I recall from the 1950s.
This book proceeded its time in that regard.A fun little story.
I came across a photo of this book completely by accident and it brought back such a flood of memories. We read every single one of these strange books by Dare Wright as kids. There was something creepy and a little scary about them - the staginess of all the scenes, the black and white photography. One picture that stayed with me in particular, I'm not sure from which book, was Edith the doll turned over Mr. Bear's knee getting a spanking. Now the whole idea makes me think of Cindy Sherman....These books are absolutely brilliant.
I think I'm missing something. This book may not have withstood the test of time. Maybe because this book was written the same year my Mom was born, I'm not going to understand the connection people have with it.  It isn't that I'm offended by the spanking or that I disagree with the doll wanting to be a woman. I just don't understand. Is this house abandoned? If so, whose things are these? She lives alone, but she's just a little girl. Maybe she's agoraphobic, but then she wouldn't really be craving companions, would she.
I had this book as a child, growing up in the 70's. I LOVED it. It offered what no other book did: A dreamy world, with imperfect characters all magically brought together with lipstick, dress up, friendship, authority, discipline and..., well, imperfect love. I was sheltered, Edith was sheltered, and although I could not describe it then, I felt like I was peering into Edith's private world. As an adult, I understand more of Wright's life-and the book is magical once again.
