https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2199587.Fractured
Start a book, call it FracturedMurder, mayhem, someone's captured Pressure builds, Trashcan battered 2 of series, questions answeredWriting, plot, clearly mastered Valued reading, Karin Slaughtered
Will Trent!!! I LOVE THIS GUY!!! My heart goes out to him, I want to hug him, comfort him, heck I want to adopt him!!! Oh yeah, and the book was very good as well. I'm hooked on Will and this series!!
Karin Slaughter writes her characters in such a way that she gives you slivers of their personalities, bits and pieces of their pasts and how each character connects to the other and then she twists each of them in a way you might not expect.
I don’t want to say much about the plot for fear of giving something away.
Looking forward to more of this series and finding out every little bit about this guy Will Trent!!
I understand why she is part of his life but she doesn’t deserve to be, at least anymore.
Book 1 : Triptych ★★★★Book 3 : Genesis/Undone ★► 3.5 stars.
Fractured is the scene of an investigation more classic than Triptych, and I enjoyed this second book slightly less than the first one.
However, it remains a very well-written and compelling read still, and I love how Karin Slaughter slowly adds layers to her characters, first of all Will Trent.
I just wish Karin Slaughter would stop using the word slutty, though, because it makes my head ache.
Another good read. Will is an enigma. Not sure what to make of him. He is dyslexic, socially inept, awkward, lives with a chihuahua and lives with Angie ... do not like her. But they have a history ... we shall see what the next story brings. “Talk about sloppy seconds.Was there such a thing as sloppy thousandths?”  Teenagers, sex, murder, the heat of Atlanta ... good storyline.In the book she is blonde but it is MY review.We are introduced to Faith Mitchell, a Detective with the Georgia Police
He is dyslexic, socially inept, awkward, lives with a chihuahua and lives with Angie ...
She wondered what it would have been like to have a son.
Granted, she was an outsider, but mothers and sons seemed to have such uncomplicated relationships.
Boys were easy to read.
They appreciated simple things, like pizza and video games, and when they fought with their friends, it was never for blood, or worse, for sport.
I have 2 boys myself.
Often wonder what it would have been like to deal with a teenage girl!
There was something so kind about him under his awkward manners and social ineptness.
Will finds himself feeling a little off his game when it comes to light that he and Emma’s father have a shared history and Will must work on this case with a partner, Faith Williams, a woman who holds a grudge against him.
This crime story is complicated, sordid, and pretty lurid.
I found the family dramas added a layer of angst to the tense situation, as the inevitable blame game began, and marital discord became public knowledge.
Emma’s parents have no control over the investigation, but attempt to manipulate it, bully the investigators and pull strings, thinking they can handle this situation like they do everything else… with money, power and influence.
After Detective Will Trent from the Georgia Bureau of Investigation walks into a crime scene in a wealthy Atlanta home with two teenagers dead and one missing, it was always going to be a complicated case to solve.
Especially since he has to work with a detective from the Atlanta PD who still hate him for catching some of their cops taking bribes to cover up drug dealing.
Will has his own problems with his dyslexia and neglected childhood that make him socially awkward, but this all makes for a fascinating character and one who sees things that others miss.
The Georgia Bureau of Investigations (GBI) and Agent Will Trent are ultimately called in when the case extends beyond the reach of the Atlanta Police Department (APD).
What I loved about the storyFaith makes her debut in the story and I loved how her working relationship with Will evolved from nowhere to respect and grudging admiration.
The case was extremely intriguing, taking some interesting and shocking twists and turns, some bordering on the macabre.
Slaughter is a master at weaving mystery, suspense and police procedurals with outstanding character development and this is a fine representation.
I know she snatched Will up because she knew it would benefit the GBI, but I think she is looking out for him, too.
Partnering him up with Faith was a smart move, and I think it'll help Will in many ways.
(view spoiler)[Warning him off of Angie just goes to show she does care for him personally, and she's right, he can do better.
As far as Angie goes, thankfully she's not in the book much, because every time she opens her mouth I dislike her a little more.
She better leave Betty (Will's ragamuffin little dog) alone!
In this one, Will Trent is called in to investigate the murder of a teenager girl.
It is also discovered that the missing girls father, knew Trent growing up.Not everything is as it seems and we learn that one girl is dead while another is missing.
As the investigation goes on, we see Faith begin to warm up to Trent.
He continues to awkward but the more we (I) learn about him, the more likable he becomes.The story is good and solid in this book.
Like an onion this book has many layers and once peeled back, the story comes full swing.See more of my reviews at www.openbookpost.com
4.5 STARSJust getting started in this series and already I find myself getting sucked in fast!
Will Trent is such and intriguing man He is a broken man.
I want all of his dreams to come true.
And still I know very little about him.
This is a crime series.
One of the things I like most about the series so far is the characters.
(Except of course our lovely WT!)This crime was actually quite complicated.
For years, Abigail had worried that her daughter would turn out exactly like her mother.
I'm not joking about Will Trent.
And I don't even know why.
A wonderful, fast-paced follow-up to Triptych. Will Trent for president!
There wasn't ever a good place to stop!But there's many more positive things about "Fractured" that should be said:The main character is Will Trent, a member of the Georgia Bureau of Investigation.
Their partnership could have been 'too cute'(wasn't!), or Trent could get all 'MALE' with Faith(DIDN'T!).I admit(perhaps by even saying this, I'm exposing MY sexist views?)to being worried that a female author MIGHT write her female characters somewhat...defensively.
Slaughter's women characters are well-rounded, varied and realistic.
Ultimately, what Slaughter has given her readers are PEOPLE that drive this excellent story.And it was the STORY kept me on the edge of my Kindle.
I really loved Triptych when I read it, but it took me some time to warm up to Fractured.
Will Trent is a very unconventional main character — after all, he’s a GBI investigator that can’t read.
I think it makes him more of a fully flushed-out character, and that’s why I root for him in the end.But enough about Will!
or both?), but much like in Triptych, you’re never completely sure who are the good guys and who are the bad.
Also, Slaughter does a good job of telling a story about the foster care system, and how shared upbringings can have very different results.
Another great read from Karin slaughter,she's one of my favourite authors.Looking forward to her next book got a few to read.this is a kidnapping story and murder great writing love will Trent fantastic character.liked this one.
FRACTURED had an ending that really satisfied but I'll admit I wasn't particularly enamoured by this mystery or the characters we interacted with along the way. I have a love/hate relationship with Will's differences at this point; the struggles he faces and his coping mechanisms and the errors that slip through the cracks during the investigations are both interesting and frustrating but I'm hoping his new partner will balance that out. It's not yet a deal breaker for me. As for his personal life, well.. that shit has to go. Please please please make it go.
This second book is a continuation of the Will Trent Series.
This time Will, of the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, meets his new partner Faith and together they set out to investigate the missing girl who's best friend is dead.
Will's dyslexia comes to light and little by little the author explains some of the mysteries this of this language-based learning disability.My plan is to eventually read the entire 10 book series because the seem to get better and better with each book.
I've now read four and am taking a break but will be picking up the fifth one soon!
A great book!! That's all I will say! I totally enjoyed this one!,
Karin Slaughter books are always a sure thing.For me the goal of this book was less about solving the crime and more about getting to know Will better.
In an effort to hide his dyslexia he inevitably makes mistakes that may jeopardise the whole investigation.And the clock is ticking….An affluent young teenager has been abducted, leaving in her wake a dead best friend and unknown young man.
The crime scene gets compromised from the get go, there are no leads and skeletons from Will’s past comes back to haunt him.A steady plot, a slightly slower pace than expected but still well worth the read.
This is the second in the Will Trent series and in this installment Will is directed to work with Faith, his future partner, for the first time.
A good thriller that has everyone stumped in the beginning with virtually no leads.
Will and Faith are forced to come together and start building some bonds quickly in order to save one of the victims who was kidnapped.
Karin Slaughter has a way of keeping each of her books original, she is consistsnt with her fast moving, smart, and always intence, crime thriller story lines.
Only the father is able to recognize that it is indeed NOT his daughter,but her best friend.
How can a mother not recognize her own daughter???
Also,when her daughter's boyfriend comes down for help,she kills him with her bare hand taking him as the murderer.
Turns out,Emma is abducted and there comes Will Trent to find her.There are so many things about the book that I didn't like.
there are 2 villains apparently,which makes it harder to find Emma.
Try this book.Did I like the novel?- maybe.
Will I read the next book?- maybe no.
Wieder ein super Will Trent Fall! Spannend und interessant bis zum Schluss. Da es offensichtlich weitere Fälle gibt, werde ich da sicher bald mal weiterlesen :)
She left me devastated at the end of the Grant County series, but I forgave Karin and now I'm hooked, AGAIN!
A great book full of action and suspense.A longer review can be found at Bite Into BooksMiss Karin Queen of Crime Slaughter does it again.
She has me hooked in yet another of her series and this will be very bad for my wallet indeed.
The third book in this series is on my ASAP reading list as well and I can't wait to read more from the author that made me fall in love with crime novels!
Just finished this book, couldn't stop reading it.Will Trent is the kind of guy that is silent and does not share much, and for each book, you read you know more of his history and you understand why.Karin, the author, really got me in this book.
Knowing Will and his "talents" you have your hopes up, but as the story unwinds the pieces comes together and forms a slightly different picture from what you anticipated.Love it, not as detailed as the first book in goriness and that was nice.
And Karin's continuous introductions to new key players in the series are welcome.I will begin reading the third part of the series soon, hoping for another masterpiece.
I do love Will Trent, the lead in these books. Certainly not your run of the mill hero!
I was completely consumed with Grant County and could not put them down and I just am not having the same connection with this series.
That being said, Karin Slaughter's writing has nothing to do with that one missing star, it more so is my personal feelings and lack of being completely consumed by these books.
Maybe its time for Angie to move aside...I look forward to reading the rest of this series and as always, enjoying another Karin Slaughter read.
Easy 5 stars This is the second time I have read this and like the first time an excellent story, well written, great characters, more revealed about the backgrounds with each book. Not sure how long ago I had read it before, but fortunately enough to forget what had happened, until I read that part again.
4.5 starsI am forever in love and bound to Will Trent.
Not as mind blowing as the first book, but I am loving Will Trent
Will, Faith & Amanda....what a team.
In spite of Will's inherent flaws, which actually work in his favor in solving the unsolvable, the overall outcome of #2 is favorable to one family.
Wrong place at the wrong time and running with bad seeds predicated the finality.
Looking forward the #3, Undone!Holy Jesus Palamino, even better the second time around.
Will is of course, still flawed, Amanda is an effing controlled crazy top cop, Faith is joining the GBI as Will's partner, and finally Leo is a chain smoking degenerate asshole of a cop (but you still like him)!
