https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29228522-murder-has-a-motive
Although listed as the first in the Mordecai Treymaine series, it is difficult to know whether this is, in fact, the case.
When we first meet Mordecai Treymaine in this mystery, it is clear that he has been involved in other murder cases.
For those of us who enjoy Golden Age mysteries, this is a wonderful time, with so many authors being re-published.
I am certainly not complaining about the fact so many long unpublished novels are appearing, though and it is a joy to discover so many out of print authors.
I now look forward to reading on in the series and discovering more novels featuring Mordecai Treymaine.
RATING: 4 STARS(I received an ARC from the NETGALLEY)(Review Not on Blog)This is a reissue from the 1940s and it is a novel is written like it's peers, Agatha Christie (Poirot) and Patricia Wentworth (Miss. Silver). Mordecai Tremaine is a fun character and the mysteries are fun. I am definitely in for the rest of the series. I hope that they all get reissued or are easy to find.
Mordecai Tremaine is staying with an old friend in the village of Dalmering.
Mordecai's friend Chief Inspector John Boyce from Scotland Yard is on the scene to investigate the crime but he is more than willing to accept Mordecai's help.This book was first published in the 1940s but has stood the test of time very well in my opinion.
However he isn't quick enough to prevent further murders.This is a well plotted mystery with a closed group of suspects in the best traditions of classic detective fiction.
I recommend it to anyone who likes classic detective fiction.
This book reminded me a lot of Agatha Christie. Tremaine is very similar to Poirot, super British, traditional, and an amateur sleuth. The plot with three different murders and the backdrop of the play, and of course the fantastic reveal at the very end, was fantastic! I really enjoyed listening to the audio version, the narrator did a really good job of conveying this quaint British village.
As in the previous book (though I do not believe this series is being republished in order) Murder for Christmas, the reader finds the amature detective and retired tobacconist, and friend of a Scotland Yard detective embroiled in yet another mystery.
When participants in the show die under circumstances that resemble elements of the play Mordecai joins with the detective, an investigative reporter and more to help solve the ever occurring mysteries that pile up as the novel progresses.
The conclusion is classic mystery satisfactory as all suspects are gathered around a table while the detective solves the crimes.
Mordecai Euripides Tremaine, retired tobacconist and murder magnet, arrives for a holiday in the English village of Dalmering.
He is immediately plunged into a murder investigation as a leading lady in the amateur dramatic group’s production of “Murder Has a Motive” has just been found dead.There is an atmosphere of mistrust and evil about, and, soon, real events are shown to mirror those in the play as two more villagers are murdered.Francis Duncan is good at conveying atmosphere and the opening of the book is striking.
I would like to thank Netgalley and Sourcebooks Inc. for a review copy of Murder has a Motive, the first novel to feature amateur sleuth Mordecai Tremaine which was originally published in 1947.Mordecai has arranged to visit friends, Dr Paul Russell and his wife, Jean, in the seaside town of Dalmering but when he gets there he is greeted with the tragic news that there has been a murder the night before when Lydia Dare was brutally stabbed to death on her way home from dinner with a friend.
It was difficult sometimes to understand what the fuss was all about but, on the other hand, it was interesting to get immersed in the rather stifling rigidity of it all.Lydia Dare was a leading light in the local amateur dramatic play for charity, Murder has a Motive.
They’re a little like stepping back in time.Murder Has a Motive was originally published in the late 1940s, a great time for mysteries.
His friends, of course, want him to find the killer.Mordecai is a quiet, sometimes pretentious man, but a romantic at heart.
He unabashedly reads trashy romance and has a weak spot for pretty women and the thought of young love being obstructed can bring him close to tears.As far as the mystery goes, we have a nice size suspect pool, not too many to keep track of, but several people with reasonable motives.
Well done murder mystery set in a small English village.
Our mild mannered amateur sleuth, Mordecai Tremaine, has a tough case on his hands.
Fortunately for him, his friend from Scotland Yard, Inspector Jonathan Boyce, has been brought in.
I think I liked Inspector Boyce just as much as I did Tremaine.As is usual in this kind of mystery, there is a small pool of suspects.
I knew better than to believe that the most obvious suspect was the murderer but I was pleasantly surprised when the villain was finally revealed.
Nice and twisty--with oodles of secrets.The finale is very satisfying.

One of these 'classic' whodunnits being republished in droves - a recovered work from 1947.
All the suspects are rehearsing to play in a murder mystery by an unknown author.
This book is not bad - a bit like an amateur apprentice piece.
Enjoyable but creaky."Amateur sleuth Mordecai Tremaine is back in another classic mystery from the author of Murder for Christmas.
When Mordecai Tremaine emerges from the train station, murder is the last thing on his mind.
But then again, he has never been able to resist anything in the nature of a mystery – and a mystery is precisely what awaits him in the Sussex seaside village."
Amateur detective Tremaine is just planning to visit old friends in the lovely little village of Dalmering, but when he arrives he finds that a woman had been murdered the previous night.
She, and his friends, were part of a group that is putting on a play for charity.
There's one obvious suspect for the murder--the man who had dined with the dead woman the night of the crime.
Most villages know all about the residents, but the group putting on the play are all newcomers, many of them commuters to London, and nothing is known about their background.
Mordecai Tremaine is a retired tobacco shop owner, who loves to travel and observe people. When he was able to assist the local police in solving a murder, he became an unofficial consultant. In this book, he travels to the village of Dalmering, where a local amateur theater production has ended in a murder. Which of the cast members is the killer? This is a reprint of a book published in the 1950s. Duncan is the pen name of an author who wrote during the 1930s-1950s, and fans of Golden Age writers, like Agatha Christie, will enjoy this series.
Mordecai Tremaine, fascinated with murder and involved in helping the police with two real-life murder cases since his retirement, happens to be visiting friends in the small town of Dalmering on the same day Lydia Dare has been found stabbed to death.
When a second murder takes place, Mordecai realizes he must act quickly before the third act is played out in real life.Murder has a Motive was originally published in 1947 and is the first book in the Mordecai Tremaine series by Francis Duncan.
Definitely a B-level Golden Age Detective writer. There was too much description of characters' slight sensuous mouths or clear eyes, but the cast of characters was broad enough that a lot of the minor characters ran together. I wasn't captivated by Mr. Tremaine, and I hate it when the detective bluffs the murderer into confessing without having any proof. The motive was okay, but the story dragged--seriously, I had to force myself to finish. Lacks the spark of Christie, Sayers, or Allingham.
Enjoyable and soothing. The detective was likable. Would read more in the series.
I can't agree with the reviewers who compare Duncan with Christie.
His characters are flat and two-dimensional - and there are far too many of them.
Christie populated her works with eccentric characters who were readily identifiable from their speech.
Duncan is forced to use "[Character] said" every time anyone speaks, or we would have no idea who was speaking.
He'd have done better to have had fewer characters with more identifiable characteristics.
He tells, rather than shows, as they say, which is just another way of saying his characters are flat and speak with the same voice.
What could be the possible motive for killing someone liked by the entire village?
The village is putting on an amateur production of a play called Murder has a Motive.
Could the murderer be only acting like a concerned friend or neighbor?Murder has a Motive was written in 1947.
It is the first Mordecai Tremaine detective series but second to be republished, after Murder for Christmas (review here: dianereviewsbooks.com/murder-for-chri...).
Murder for Christmas had a twisty pseudo-Christie plot that this book did not.
Murder has a Motive is a good, not great, lesser golden age mystery.
At first, I found it annoyingly slow then suddenly I realized I couldn’t put it down.
The transition between molasses slow and intensely relentless was very subtle and well done.
One minute I was ready to quit because of the annoying repetition about the atmosphere and the detective’s quirks, and the next I was wondering how he would get himself out of the tangle and make it clear to everyone else.
Especially, in the beginning, we are told directly over and over again exactly what the atmosphere is and what the significance of every statement is.
Unfortunately, it wasn’t as clean as I had hoped.
The language was clean until the last third or so.
Like Miss Marple, murder seems to have a habit of following Mordecai Tremaine around.
When visiting old friends in the village of Dalmering, very English, very scenic far removed from the ugliness of murder and suspects, he unexpectedly finds himself in the midst of a murder where suspects are rife and though public opinion is determinedly fixed on one candidate, both Scotland Yard and our Mr. Tremaine thinks it fits in too neatly and seems too easy.When a second murder takes place, the whole village is in an uproar.
It is just slightly old fashioned and not as enthralling as an Agatha Christie though Miss Marple would be of the same vintage.
The description of the book sounded a lot like one of Agatha Christie's novels, and I'm a huge Mrs. Christie's fan.The story begins with a murder of a young woman in a small English village Dalmering.
Private detective Mordecai Tremaine just happens to visit his this particular village for a holiday.
Well, the murderer is not very pleased with this particular "hiccup" in their plan.
And on top of the murders, the village is working on a play, called "Murder Has a Motive".
One busy village I tell you.The overall story was great.
"Murder Has a Motive" is a mystery novel that was originally published in 1947 and is set in England.
The play suggests whodunit, but the detective feels that the similarities are misleading.The amateur detective, Mordecai, snooped around and collected clues.
While it was a clue-based mystery, Mordecai seemed most taken by the atmosphere of evil that he felt about the place.
At the end, Mordecai hopes to end the killing spree by getting everyone together and pretending to know what he was only guessing.
Overall, I'd recommend this interesting mystery.I received a free ebook review copy of this book from the publisher through NetGalley.
Tremaine visits friends on the coast the day after a gruesome murder occurred.
Tremaine has a cool, collected way of sleuthing and the hardest thing for me while reading, was not picturing Christie’s Poirot as Tremaine.
The story really takes off once more murders occur, and both Tremaine and Boyce are racing against the clock to solve this mystery.Murder, Britain, the coast, a small village, and a great reveal at the end make this book a must read for murder mystery lovers.
Even though Francis Duncan’s detective constantly reminded me of Poirot, the book was a fun read that I’ll keep around on my bookshelf for future visits.Happy reading!!
This is the second of three mysteries featuring Mordecai Tremaine, an elderly man fascinated by the crime of murder.
When Tremaine realizes that the murder seems to be connected to the play, he must figure out the culprit before there are more victims.
Definitely a story of its' time and place (a small village), the story is slow to unravel, and Tremaine does most of his sleuthing simply by talking to suspects, and his main tool for solving crime is his knack for observing and understanding the personalities of his fellow humans.
Thank you NetGalley for my free copy of this book.
“Murder has a motive” is a well-written murder mystery, with an interesting plot and characters.
Mordecai Tremaine certainly reminds me of Agatha Christie’s Poirot, which made me love this book even more.
Though similar to Poirot’s stories, Mordecai is a great and distinctive amateur detective, with his own quirkiness and own way of using his little grey cells to solve the murders.
I really enjoyed the parallel between the murders and the play and thought the final plot twist, the murderer big reveal, was absolutely fantastic.

The plot of this book progresses steadily, with answers being revealed that adds even more questions, until it all comes together at the very end.
Even though I could guess whodunnit and their motives about halfway through, it was still fun to read to the end and see all clues I had missed.
The pacing of this book is slower than others I've read in the same genre, such as Agatha Christie's, which adds to the cozy (makes me want to snuggle up with a blanket and a hot cup of tea) feeling.
I look forward to reading more books from this series.
Mordecai is retired and a bit of a Miss Marple in that he is a discerning character that doesn’t attract attention.
Mordecai is invited to his friends home in a small English village.
Scotland Yard is called in and Mordecai’s friend, inspector boys, is heading up the investigation.
Together they investigate The initial murder and the following two murders.
Some parts of the book are a bit long-winded, but One gets to know the psychological aspects of most of the characters.
This book was written in 1947 and the authors identity was not revealed until 2016.

My brain has been on the fritz so I picked this up from the library on a whim hoping it'd be an easy read to lose myself in.
It was easy but it was hard to get involved in it.
I felt like most of the characters only scratched the surface.
Every time there was a new lead on the case I felt like Mordeci would sit down with the character and have a long drawn out conversation, that didn't happen.
I started out liking this more than I did The Orient Express but it turned out to be about the same for me.
