https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77103.The_Glass_Palace
It follows the mingled fates of three families and three countries--Burma, India, and Malaya, from 1885 through the mid-1990s.
The story begins with the British takeover of the kingdom of Burma as its king and queen are exiled to a remote compound in India.
It's a challenging read with a few dry patches in the early pages, becoming progressively more exciting and touching.
I finished the last 135 pages all in one go.
I love the way Ghosh allows the family histories to cycle back around as Jaya searches for connections with her relatives and traces their legacy of courage and love, successes and sacrifices.
The glass palace, Amitav GhoshThe Glass Palace is a 2000 historical novel by Indian writer Amitav Ghosh. The novel is set in Burma, Bengal, India, and Malaya, spans a century from the fall of the Konbaung Dynasty in Mandalay, through the Second World War to modern times. Focusing mainly on the early 20th Century, it explores a broad range of issues, ranging from the changing economic landscape of Burma and India, to pertinent questions about what constitutes a nation and how these change as soci
Focusing mainly on the early 20th Century, it explores a broad range of issues, ranging from the changing economic landscape of Burma and India, to pertinent questions about what constitutes a nation and how these change as society is swept along by the tide of modernity.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز ششم ماه مارس سال 2006 میلادیعنوان: قصر شیشه‌ ای؛ اثر: آمیتاو گاش؛ ب‍رگ‍ردان‌: مه‍دی قراچه‌ داغی، نشر: تهران، البرز، چاپ نخست سال 1381 ؛ در 557 صفحه، شابک: 9644423321؛ موضوع: داس‍تان‍های نویسندگان هندی (انگلیسی) - سده 20 منقل از متن: داخل دکه ی غذا فروشی، تنها یک نفر بود که صدای غرشی را که از دوردست میآمد، و در امتداد پیچ نقره‌ ای ایراوادی، به دیواره ی غربی دژ مندالی میرسید، میشناخت.
During my pre-vegetarian days, I used to find solace in a warm, juicy scrumptious steak n’ cheese sandwich washed down by a chilled Heineken.
There were times, many times throughout the narration, I wished to have simply bought a non-fiction Burmese history book and could have used the remaining to purchase some beer.
One thing you should be sure of, Ghosh loves history and with his books one can gain knowledge of varied historical eras.
Just like the fancy steak sandwich; all those flavors of buttered crustacean, meat, cheese, truffles and maybe salmon roe, it a medley of disaster.
Amitav Ghosh tells the story of a family and the tumultuous history of Burma (Myanmar).
Burma is a country ravaged by war for more than fifty years, which only became a delicate new democracy in 2015.
Beautiful people in The Golden Land, live amidst the most scenic places on earth.
An atmospheric, picturesque tale of a family's struggles through decades, probably eighty years, to survive the politics and social revolt in a country ravaged by greed and expansionism.
it would not have been the same read if much of the scenic background and social dynamics were not added to all the different strains of each character's life.
Wow! I have just finished one of my new favourite books! And I believe I will hit the "become a fan" button on Ghosh's page here on Goodreads after I finish this! (I loved Sea of Poppies and River of Smoke too) This book was a fantastic ride through part of South East Asia's history! A fascinating family drama that never bored. Well-written and a sad but also touching end. Well Done!!
Most of the historical fiction books I've read have tried to do three things -- evoke a sense of time and place, depict historical events through the eyes of their characters, and last (and often least, unfortunately, even though this is ostensibly the reason to read a novel in the first place), create multifaceted characters who are experiencing their own growth, development, and plot.
100 the story started to fall flat for me, and then more and more characters and jumpy subplots were introduced as I found myself less and less motivated to follow them.I read Sea of Poppies, a later book by Ghosh, a while back and really enjoyed it.
The first person I recommended this book to was an English professor, who said she was immediately "transfixed." Undoubtedly Amitav Ghosh's masterpiece (his other novels do not even compare), The Glass Palace is an epic that takes place over three generations of a multi-ethnic and multi-class families in Southeast Asia.
The Glass Palace is both a critique and celebration of modernity, wrought through dynamic characters you come to know as family, indubitable historical descriptions that you feel Ghosh knows intimately, and myriad images, smells, sounds, and feeling compiled through a kind of snapshot montage.
Often the people I was most interested in, just featured in a small bit of the book and after that heard from only in passing.After a long gap of years, I have only recently resumed reading light fiction, and probably I expect too much of it after immersing myself in many of the 'greats' and a lot of non-fiction.
I was drawn to this book though after reading Aravind Adiga's White Tiger and remembering how much I used to enjoy stories of the Raj - Paul Scott, E.M. Forster etc - and read Ghosh's latest, Sea of Poppies, which I loved.
This book is epic in length and covers three generations of Indians in the countries of Malaya and Burma (Myanmar) from 1885 until the end of the twentieth century.
Some of the essay / chapters seem to build to a point of interest and then abruptly end.
I would only recommend this book to someone who was interested in a very high-level understanding of Indians in Burma.
I did not understand or empathize with any of the characters and would have preferred more in depth coverage of a shorter period of time.
Indeed one of the core themes of the book is that of actions and morality; rather than offer a simplistic view of morality, Ghosh colours his characters actions with varying shades of grey, from the mutiny of Arjan, whose bluster and good-will gradually dissolve in the dehumanisation of war, to Uma, whose supercilious demeanour belies her passionate humanism, Ghosh expertly weaves a rich tapestry of motivations behind the actions of the characters.The other key theme of the novel is colonialism, as one of the characters Dinu states;“Did we ever have a hope?
As with all of his novels, this is no small part of the pleasure that comes with reading “The Glass Palace,” receiving a fascinating education folded so delicately into a great story that you often fail to realize how much you are learning.
Likewise, I was as ever mesmerized by Ghosh’s treatment of the complex social dynamics of colonial India.Yet more than an education, this novel shines for its perfectly constructed characters and their wonderful, complex relationships.
At times, one feels an almost Tolstoy like intricacy in these characters’ relationships.For those unfamiliar with Ghosh, “The Glass Palace” is a great place to begin a journey with one of the world’s great living novelists.
But it is also the story about the exile of the last Burmese king and his family and their life in India; it is the story of the British colonisation of Burma but with some hints also to its colonisation in India and Malaysia; it is the story of Rajkumar, an Indian orphan that lives and works in Burma, of his family and several good friends of him and his wife.
I was never bored by the story.Despite this I can't rate it with 5* because the story about the Burmese king and his family's exile, and therefore also the story about Rajkumar's and Dolly's youth, was very long and detailed, while the last part of the book (about the second and third generation of Rajkumar's family) was shorter and there were some time leaps.
Time to admit that this is not getting finished.
Despite being in Mandalay when I started it, I found that this book, which is rather too abrupt in jumping from decade to decade and generation to generation, also dragged and failed to engage.
I feel his pain at the reader's ignorance, my ignorance, But character development too often gets squeezed out in his books, and I'd rather read good history or good fiction than something which gets in its own way too much to be either.
This has become one of my top favorite works of historical fiction. Love the writing and everything else about the telling of the broad history of Burma (today's Myanmar ) which he masterfully connects to colonialism. I will reread at some point.
It might even be easier.’Dinu paused to think.
I’ll come.’She reached for his hands.
‘I don’t think I could bear to go without you.
This 500-page clunker of a book is not so much a novel as a morass of notes, detailing all of the anecdotes the author encountered in his research on this little corner of southeast Asia, and gussied up lightly with romances that are oddly both turgid and blandly calm at at the same time.
In some sense, it's a book about modernity, which really doesn't seem to catch on as well in southeast Asia.
Page 107:May I remind Your Highness that while Alexander the GReat spent no more than a few months in the steppes of Central Asia, the satrapies he founded persisted for centuries afterward) Britain's Empire is, by contrast, already more than a century old, and you may be certain, Your Highness, that its influence will persist for centuries more to come.Page 292There were quotations from Mahatma Gandhi and a passage that said: "Why should India, in the name of freedom, come to the defence of this Satanic Empire which is itself the greatest menace to liberty that the world has ever known?"Page 518"Did we ever have a hope?"..."We rebelled against an Empire that has shaped everything in our lives; coloured everything in the world as we know it.
It is a huge, indelible stain which has tainted all of us.
Unlike most long novels or multi-generational family epics, this one held me interested throughout, largely because whenever Ghosh allowed the tension to drop as a novelist, he picked it up as an historian.
Indeed, for much of the book, I felt I was reading a non-fiction history of Burma, India, and Malaya, told through the lives of characters who are largely fictional.
That is much less true here, partly because most of the younger characters are interesting in their own right, partly because the action moves into truly stirring times, and partly because it is here that Ghosh most clearly comes to grips with the major themes of his book.
The story opens in the Mandalay neighborhood surrounding the residence and seat of government of Burma's last king, Thebaw Min. In the palatial surroundings of his palace, Thebaw awaits the arrival of British troops who have moved up from the south to incorporate the kingdom as a whole in their empire.
He remains smitten for many years until they meet again near the residence of the exiled king in India.Though the focus in The Glass Palace is the history of Burma, the conflict at the core of the tale is the three-way tension between the Burmese, the British, and the Indian businessmen such as Rajkumar became as an adult.
This is a Historical fiction pivoted around milestones with a few real characters spanning countries and 3 generations.The first part of the King of Burma's exile and the subsequent life in India could easily be mistaken for work of fiction.
The next generation story unfolds like a mega serial up till the war with narration restricted to developments.
Definitely the strongest points of the book are these pages of the country in transition.
Masterpiece for the author.Complains - Too many characters of equal importance, some subplots that stand out as loose threads and mega serial type handling of the 2nd generation.
It is a sweeping epic that starts from the eviction of the Royal family in Burma where a urchin witnesses the royalty being indignantly thrown out and resolutely falls in love with one of the helpers who comes to India with the king and the Queen and the 3 princessses.The books explores their life there as normal people there and the hardships they go through .
What I love about the book is how Ghosh weaves in so many characters and so many settings (plantations, independence struggle right upto a Burma in exile).It is one of the best books to read for people who like to learn about cultures, economies, politics, society and relationships all inextricably woven.
From the rubber estates in Malaya, Burma, the colonies in India and the British Invasion of Burma -from 1870 to WW2 makes for an epic read and a historical lesson of a remarkable time period.Heavily detailed and evocative, this is a read which teaches you a lot about the time and place of the countries involved.
the danger and the tensions of all involved is remarkable to read and it paints a picture of a very turbulent and dramatic time in history.Although Rajkumar’s story, this is also the story of Burma, Malaya, and India over the 150 years from the British raj to the present day.
I haven't read such a poignantly moving book in quite a while!With that out of the way, the story actually begins in Mandalay (Burma) in 1885, during the last days of the Konbaung Dynasty.
As looters raid the palace, Rajkumar, an Indian boy of 11, catches a glimpse of Dolly, one of the queen's maids and "by far the most beautiful creature he had ever beheld, of a loveliness beyond imagining."The British exile the Burmese royals to India - first Madras and then Ratnagiri.
It's difficult to clearly say whose story this is, it belongs to each superbly etched character, and through these personal narratives, the author weaves in the larger socio-political and historical changes happening in Burma, India and Malaya.
And Ghosh manages to make subsequent generations of characters equally interesting.However, this isn’t without a caveat--111 years is a long time to cover in a single volume, and so a lot of time is skipped over.
Less than 100 pages into the book, Rajkumar and Dolly are already in their 30s, and that’s only the first of several significant time-skips.
Granted, the book covers facets of WWII that I was unfamiliar with (in particular, the dilemmas faced by the Indian soldiers), and the war was crucial to the end of British colonization in Asia, and these sections are well-written....
This is history written through the vehicle of a fictional story.
He says, in his Author's Notes:The seed of this book was brought to India long before my own lifetime by my father and my uncle, the late Jagat Chandra Datta of Rangood and Moulmein - 'The Prince' as he was known to his relatives.
In the five years it took me to write The Glass Palace I read hundreds of books, memoirs, travelogues, gazetteers, articles and notebooks, published and unpublished; I traveled thousands of miles, visiting and re-visiting, so far as possible, all the settings and locations that figure in this novel...Well first of all, that is one elegant Author's note.
It charts the lives of three generations of a Burmese-Indian family.
It begins in Mandalay with the invasion of the British and the exile of the Burmese royal family to Ratnagiri.
Their prolonged exile provides the backdrop for the forging of many personal relationships that continue throughout the book.
World wars one and two feature in so much as we see the participation of the British-Indian army in the fighting and also how the demand for teak and rubber make some local entrepreneurs wealthy.
This was an extremely well written book which came about after years of incredible research by the author.
At its core, the Glass Palace is the story of ordinary people's life being taken over by politics and drowning them into insignificance.What I found mostly remarkable is how the build-up of each character is paced, with often illustrious and heavy detailing during the first and middle part of their stories, however their exit from the book is mostly tapered, and seems sometimes even abrupt.
At certain instances, author take short detours and gives us vivid and beautiful description of the various environmental details like natural surroundings in which story is being progressed, the local customs and practises, the crafts practised by various characters currently in spotlight etc, and end effect is a lovely ambiance and aura being created across the story.
Wondeful epic story of a family in the 1800s to 1990s. Also of Burma and India in a troubles time in history.I actually learned stuff!The author manages to tell a sweeping tale with epic historical themes and yet also personsl and full of compassion for the individual struggles of the people. I really love his descriptions of charactors. I could truely see the in my mind yet he only usea FEW PERFECT PHRASES. I will read more by the author. Reading him is a wonderful satisfying experitnce.
- ผลกระทบตอผูคนยุคลาอาณานิคม เลาผานชีวิตครอบครัวหนึงตังแตรุนพอแมถึงรุนหลาน (+เหลนนิดนึง) อิงเหตุการณตังแตชวงจักรวรรดิอังกฤษเขายึดครองพมา ถอดกษัตริยจากราชบัลลังก ลากยาวจนถึงชวงเวลาของอองซาน ซูจี - ชวงรุนพอแมอืดไปนิด พอเขาสูรุนลูกเริมสนุก ซับซอนขึน- ความสัมพันธผูคนโยงใยกันจนบางครังดูเลยเถิด เชนความสัมพันธชวงทายชีิวิตของราชกุมารกับอุมา แตกฮาดี เปนสีสัน- ผูหญิงกับผูชายอยูใกลชิดกันเปนตองไดเรืองตลอด ฮาๆๆ
- ผลกระทบต่อผู้คนยุคล่าอาณานิคม เล่าผ่านชีวิตครอบครัวหนึ่งตั้งแต่รุ่นพ่อแม่ถึงรุ่นหลาน (+เหลนนิดนึง) อิงเหตุการณ์ตั้งแต่ช่วงจักรวรรดิอังกฤษเข้ายึดครองพม่า ถอดกษัตริย์จากราชบัลลังก์ ลากยาวจนถึงช่วงเวลาของอองซาน ซูจี - ช่วงรุ่นพ่อแม่อืดไปนิด พอเข้าสู่รุ่นลูกเริ่มสนุก ซับซ้อนขึ้น- ความสัมพันธ์ผู้คนโยงใยกันจนบางครั้งดูเลยเถิด เช่นความสัมพันธ์ช่วงท้ายชีิวิตของราชกุมารกับอุมา แต่ก็ฮาดี เป็นสีสัน- ผู้หญิงกับผู้ชายอยู่ใกล้ชิดกันเป็นต้องได้เรื่องตลอด ฮ่าๆๆ
Everything I love. Beautifully written. Well researched. Wonderful story. And you feel transported into a different time and place in a way which few can achieve.
While the length and intersect to context and continuity ALSO (beauty of place and description the exception) became worse and worse as the book proceeded.
Well- let's give this a 3 star, I guess, since at least they gave you 5 pages of maps before you started.
So once again, he is only telling the British "baddie" side of the story.I wanted to like this entire book for its truth in duplicity, primarily those conflicting loyalties during these crux years of tribal, country, class identity finding.
It was twice as long to read as other books of this exact length.
