https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79653.Tristram_Shandy_and_A_Sentimental_Journey
There are jokes, word play, address to the reader(s), and asides.
At the moment half the book is read, and the narrator has not actually appeared in the story, other than by inference regarding construction of an appliance to repair to his nose and an unsuccessful attempt to invalidate his baptism.I find the abrupt changes in address and style, as the switch from "quoth my father" to "the old gent" a bit irritating.
Subplots go nowhere, inside jokes are unsatisfying, and the author seems to take the reader as his confidant in the entire construction.
A life-changing masterpiece -- one of the most playful, inventive, unusual, maddening, and all-around exciting books I've ever read.
I don't know what to make of this one.
It's all over the place.
It's less a novel than one long parlor joke.
“Where was I wounded, madam?” It's more humorous than funny.
It's slow and pretty weird.
Would leisurely be a better word?
The humor is mostly farce.
It was undoubtedly daring and rather fresh at the time but is now a bit stale.
Tristram himself is more of a foil for the real stars of the novel, Uncle Toby and Trim.
The monologue in defense of Toby's Hobby Horse (and Hobby Horses in general) is a great defense of eccentricity and laissez faire in private life.
Really difficult to follow but brings to life the question of "who says we need to structure our novels in the same old way?" This comes before stream of consciousness but has life-like discussion-esque patterns to the writing.
The sentences begin with a purpose, the diverge off to left or right, sometimes never resolving the initial subject.
It's fun and crazy and not at all straightforward (even within the same sentence).
This literary style is called "digress" and offers potential writers a free pass to write in whatever way they feel natural.
It's rather liberating in that way.
This book nearly drove me crazy when I read it in college back in the mid-60's. I have a love-hate realtionship with it. Considering that Sterne used the device of stream-of-consciousness narration a couple of hundred years before it was invented, it's pretty amazing. Compare his technique with Virginia Woolf's "Orlando" and you'll be surprised how "comtemporary" it is, despite the archaic style of language. Not an easy read, however.If you want to read something form thjis period that is more accessible and far more rewarding, I would recommend Tobias Smollet's "Roderick Random"
I really like the concept of this: a fake autobiography in which the titular character is only "onstage" for about 40 pages. The whole story is about the detours and tangents. There were some hilarious moments, but I found myself growing impatient with some of the characters' antics.
I don't care what you've read. You can't call yourself a literary snob until you've conquered this beast. (By the way, the movie that recently was made of this is surprisingly worth it. But don't watch it until you've read the book!!!)
This is one of the most unusual books I have ever read. It has some unforgettable characters and is quite funny. On the other hand, it has an unbelievable number of digressions, some of which are droll, others of which are just bizzarre.
I'm just getting started on the 1940 version, edited by James A Work. This is a really complete study edition with cool essays and background on Sterne, the 18th C and the book. I'm getting a pretty good feel with this edition, glad I happened on to it.
It was super hard to follow. I'mNot sure why it's a great book except that it does have interesting scenes of marriage and communication with particularly the birth arrangements, and how to make decisions together.
[whoah:]
I have to be in the right mood to read the flowery, long-winded writing from the 1700's, but I couldnt do it this time.
One of the best books ever written. A diatribe on life.
Most awful part of my required reading as an English major. Really not worth your time unless you want to somehow brag about having read it.
Highly entertaining, loved it- even if I had to take breaks because it sometimes gets so overwhelming in detail and deviations.
Not ashamed to admit that I didn't understand this one. At all. Wonder if I would understand it better if I read it now.
Way ahead of it's time. Especially loved chapter 19 of the last book, which basically is a blank page ; ).
using the word "read" loosely here.
Language is a bit hard to get into, but it's altogether awesome.
Weirdly odd book, an autobiography of sorts, but quite abstract and hard to follow in places. Random pages are either blank, black or strange blobs. Once you get going it alright but still very odd.
Rambling, long, disjointed and difficult to follow. Not an enjoyable read. Listed is number 58 on the list of Greatest Novels of All Time. Why?
A post-modern novel (one whole page is black) in the 18th century.
