https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/325151.Valerie_and_Her_Week_of_Wonders
Demons and corrupt, sleazy priests, hordes in masquerade finery with pitchforks attempting to burn young virgins alive while accusing them of sorcery for the lust they inspire, ghosts and blood-suckers and invisibility potions and plague terror, all used as means to explore themes of burgeoning female sexuality and what it does both to who you are and how you are seen and treated by the world, men in general, and other women, particularly former beauty queens turned spinsters who hate you for your youth?
I make a lot of allowances for books in translation, but I'm starting to even bore myself with that and I don't think I will be so generous from now on.
This is just awesome: a phantasmagoric bildungsroman from a Czech surrealist poet toying with the gothic-romantic serial form to portray convoluted family melodrama, vampirism, subversion of authority. Probably see Jaromil Jires' flawless 1971 film version first, as it's a culminating masterwork of the Czech New Wave, and also a more thoroughly dreamlike and ambiguous treatment. But then read this, because it's a sheer pleasure as well. And good for giving some context or clarification to the film's vaguer moments (unnecessary for appreciation, but interesting nonetheless).
Reminded me a bit of The Master and Margarita. Almost like a surrealistic coming of age story.---Updated: Rewatched the movie adaptation of this bizarre work, the czechs sure know how to make great movies based off books, another good example is Panna a netvor, their version of Beauty and the Beast. I highly recommend that one too, very similar atmosphere and aesthetics.
If only my menarche were this eventful! Think witches, vampires, changelings, polecat-faced villains and subterranean crypts! Let us not forget "fowl pests!"I saw the film version first and I liked the film version better. That said, this was a likable tale with some very pretty passages. Example: "Exposed so long to the cold, Valerie felt like a stalactiteilluminated by twilight." This book definitely reminded me of a scandalous Victorian serial novel, in particular the middle novel in this tome: Venus in Boston and Other Tales of Nineteenth-Century City Life.
The dream – stimulated by Valerie’s menarche – seems to embody and in a sense parody the trials incorporated in the ‘erotic’ fiction we might associate with gothic writing as well as other threatening aspects of gothic fiction when seen as the outer limit of the romantic sensibility.
The textual form itself is also unsettling; much of the dialogue seems naïve in its simplicity – almost as if Nezval is drawing on texts of moral guidance of the kind that might come with confirmation (noting, Valerie’s menarche as the stimulating factor, this source may be compelling) but of a kind we may also see in pulp fiction; fast, simple, easy to read.
To, že jsem nikdy nečetl Valerii jsem si tedy patřičně vyčítal a tak jsem se tuto chybu rozhodl napravit.
Zakoupil jsem tedy jako správný hipster první vydání z roku 1946 a v přítmí mého kníru začal číst.
Věděl jsem jen, že je to tak stará knížka, že je dokonce černobílá.
Byl jsem tedy velice zaskočen, když jsem zjistil, že Nezval v této knize vytvořil halucinogenní verzi Twilight, která se odehrává vokolo kurníku a hlavní hrdinka menstruuje jako o život.
Celkově hodnotím knihu čtyřmi bludišťáky z pěti, protože na můj vkus skončila až moc pozitivně a také jsem se nikdy nedozvěděl, jak dopadla ta menstruace.
Protože jsem se této fašistické propagandě z kantýny nepoddal, můžu teď v případě potřeby sežrat špenát a nechat si narůst svaly, vlasy nebo menší penis.
A i já jsem jen člověk.Valerie a týden divů je bohužel příběh, kterej obsahuje upíry.
Jelikož se mi ale kniha líbila, tak si teď připadám trochu špinavej.
Jak sám v předmluvě píše “napsal tuto knihu z lásky k tajemství starých vypravovánek, pověr a romantických knih, psaných švabachem, jež se kdysi mihly před mýma očima a jež mi nedopřály svěřit svůj obsah.” Protože byl Nezval starej prasák, obsahuje kniha několik full frontálů, kdy sedmnáctiletá Valerie ukáže nejen pepíci, ale i švabacha.Dávám plnou palbu, protože to je čtení jak pro děti a jelikož jsem to čet souběžně s Obratníkem Kozoroha od Millera, četlo se to jako máslová hruška.
Gothic menstrual fantasy with a polecat vampyr. NOICE.
This was surreal, off-the-wall ridiculousness and I legit loved every word of it.
Bez pochyby zajímavá a originální věc.
Strange. Wonderful. Bizarre. Exactly what I expected. I like the movie more actually, but it does not mean this is bad work. It's brilliant and I will come back to it surely in some time.
It was virgin this, virgin that, virginal, virginity, a whole sermon read to virgins that basically boiled down to "y'all are only good while you're virgins, so don't have sex until you marry and don't masturbate under any circumstances, and those of you who did - y'all are trash and huge disappointments, your guardian angel saw everything and he also thinks you're trash".
Many girls left said sermon in tears and with severe feeling of guilt....seriously?
I read several reviews and I cannot for the life of me grasp, what's so "clever" and "interesting" about this book.
I have not seen the film based on this book, but I've heard many good things about it.
Unfortunately, now that I've read the book, I have lost interest in seeing the film that was based on it because I found the book tedious and rather dull.
Maybe they read much better in the original Czech, but a lot of the passages were clumsy, cheesy, and downright clunky.
As this was a very quick read (a bath and a bus ride), I can't call it a total waste of my time, but I kept reading even when I wanted to put it down because I was waiting for it to get better .
I was afraid to read this.
I wanted to read it, but knowing it was a tale of a pubescent young woman experiencing menarche and fertility, and knowing it was this story being told by a male Czech writer, I feared much of it would be, er, awkward.
I don't think Czech writers, those men, the big names, can tell the story of women very fairly.The story is well-told.
It is a gothic surrealist horror story.
I can imagine a young woman, at this point of maturation, would feel experiences similarly, if not more acutely.
Czech surrealist's homage to Max Ernst's "A Little Girl Dreams of Taking the Veil" (itself an homage to the gothic novel and pop culture of the generation before).
If you've got the Twisted Spoon edition, do yourself a favor and read the epilogue first to get an idea of what motifs in surrealist and gothic literature the author is drawing on.
It's hard to tell whether the translation is a bit off or the author was playing with the stilted language of the literary genre he's playing with.
Similarly, it's difficult to tell where the lapse in continuum of the story is intentionally broken and where it's unintentional.
It's supposed to be bad because it's an adaptation of a bad style!" There are many moments in this book where the writing becomes stripped down to pages of just dialogue.
Maybe it's my translation or maybe it's the original author, but it was tedious and boring.I feel that perhaps watching the movie first has ruined it for me, since it took the fruits of the book and applied them to a medium that was better able to make use of them.
The concept of the book is good on paper, and it was creative enough to make a good movie, but the execution is terribly flawed.
One of those rare occasions when the movie was better. Not to say the book isn't good, just in a different way. It wasn't the best thing I've ever read, it wasn't the worst either. If you've seen the movie or want to, you should read the book.
Magnificent. I read it among the streets of Prague and wrote a blog post of its effect on my whole travel experience: https://hauntedhousesociety.wordpress...
It is stylistically avant-garde, most similar to Nezval's contemporary Vladislav Vancura, and unlike other novels written by poets Valerie stylistically resembles his poetry a lot and is thus a cannon blast of surrealism right in the face of the reader (including Nezval's superbly skilled and honestly unsurpassed use of animals as poetic imagery).
But unlike works often classified as avant-garde, Valerie is - in very stark contrast - a very easy book to read, one of several symptoms of Nezval's utilization of the style and structure of pulp novels that he loved reading.
Det där med "underbar" ska kanske tas med en gnutta salt, eller åtminstone sättas i förhållande till läsarens grad av masochism.
Denna makabra roman, en ohelig bastard av surrealism, gotisk skräck och kioskdeckare, rivstartar med en filmiskt drömlik scen om illrar, nattfjärilar och magiska örhängen, och 17-åriga Valérie som upplever sin första menstruation; "Hon tittade efter och upptäckte till sin gränslösa förfäran att en strimma blod rann över vristen".Sedan är det gasen i botten i 220 sidor.
Men är man svag för just surrealism, gotisk skräck och pulp fiction så väntar en god stunds underhållning.
This was a good book--possibly one I should reread since I found the translation initially distracting.
Please note that I am not a fan of most "coming of age" novels, and this book teeters on the brink; however, the story eventually captured me aster a good long time of picking it up and putting it down.
Yes, I definitely will reread in the future, only to be sure that I am not being too hard on the book, since I really did enjoy it.
"Valerie…" is not a teen genre book, though!
It's a good book, solid--give it a try!
I read this novel for the first time years ago and have since picked it up annually to re-read.
The novel effortlessly merges fairy tale with pulp and with lyrical, literary prose.
This mixture of "literary" and "pulp" is achieved to great effect, and engages the reader from front to back, if only to find out what's real, what's surreal, or whether there isn't a fundamental difference between the two.
This novel taught me that even fairy-tales can incorporate adult themes to great effect, and can stick with you for a long time.
I will finish what Li could not!...And I did.I suggest watching the 1970 film version, first.
Due to the surreal nature of the narrative, the movie is a lot more open to interpretation and lends for a really dreamy experience.
The book, written in the third person, answers any questions the movie inspires.
Inspired by Victorian serial novels, the writing is very straightforward and fast-paced and throws the protagonist,Valerie,a newly-menstruating 17 year old, into many debauched situations where her "virtue" (I AM TALKING ABOUT HER VIRGINITY IF YOU DIDN'T KNOW, SHHHH.) is endangered.
I read this book while studying the history of the Czech Republic.
I couldn't say it was a pleasure reading it but I love oddities and surrealist types of things.
It is very much a sex oriented book, and some parts do come off sleazy.
However, it was very interesting.
There's lots of symbolism and it's an interesting look at the femme-enfant theme that often was prevalent at the time.
You will feel SOMETHING when you read it, but probably not the warm fuzzies.
This is the first author from Prague that I have ever read.
Very powerful author in the 20's and 30's, co-founder of the Surrealist movement in Czechoslovakia, 1934.
Wrote this in 1945.Again, a different style than i have ever read before.
It has a very obvious gothic style, and a story wrapped around a young girl who has literally a week of wonders, or horrors.
However you choose to see it.Heavy overtones of a young woman discovering her sexuality, and definitely the ever present effect of religion in the time.Movie was done in the 70's: Havent't seen it but the pictures seem suiting.http://e-filmblog.blogspot.com/2011/0...
Astounding. Not sure if I would have been as excited if I had not read In Search of the Swan Maiden: A Narrative on Folklore and Gender, The Bloody Chamber and Other Stories, and on my re-read of Lolita. Will return to this later, but what a dazzling, fun nightmarescape. Next to the Bloody Chamber as a favourite fairy tale.
Alice in Wonderland meets Lolita, a coming-of-age fantasy that offers its readers the best of all worlds: beauty, eroticism, dreams and disturbing emotions.
I regret seeing the film before reading the book, although it is still one of my all time favorite, Jaroslava Schallerová did a fantastic job but I now can only associate Valerie with her.
If you are lucky and haven't yet been introduced to neither the book nor the film, I strongly suggest you first read the novel and do it with an open mind.
why couldn't the whole thing have been like the final chapters?
i nearly had a magical near-death experience as i was reading and then it was heavenly till the end.
i would have been ok dying with the grandmother at that moment.
but now i have to find another way to die that's even more lovely.
what surrealist wants to step up?
so yes i don't have a clue how it could have been so bad then so good, maybe because the style and tone seemed to suddenly switch and the writing became surreal.
i love dreaming and living through someone else's dream and want to die in someone else's death.
Even though the 70's film adaptation of 'Valerie and her week of wonders' is one of my all time favourite flicks, the book wasn't as captivating and surreal as I had hoped.
It's not a bad story at all, but it's definitely not the most fascinating either.
I think a lot of symbolism was lost in the English translation, for example the motif of night moth which, meaning nightmare in Czech language, brings whole nother level to the story telling.
However, by reading the book and having seen the film, I can now understand the whole plot line and enjoy the story even more.

