https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56083.In_Dubious_Battle
John Steinbeck’s 1936 novel In Dubious Battle (with a title and opening quote from Milton) tells the tragic story of a labor strike amongst apple growers and pickers in a fictionalized California.Considered by some to be his first major novel, Steinbeck readers will notice many themes that would later become central focuses of his writing like labor injustices, group dynamics, and man’s ability for and propensity for cruelty and inhumanity.
At a time when the divide in this country between rich and poor is as great as it's ever been, a book like In Dubious Battle becomes quite pertinent once more.It's the Great Depression and the Red Scare has the nation suspicious of anyone who might organize a strike for better wages, for something higher than the starvation-level pay the bosses are handing out to hard-up fieldworkers.
Steinbeck's In Dubious Battle follows Jim, a newcomer to the Communist Party.
And then there's the greedy need in some men to rule, to gather up all the wealth and power they can for their own selfish desire.
Writing novels about the poor and dispossessed in 1930s California and in the process attracting the wrath of farmers’ organisations and the attention of the FBI gave John Steinbeck a reputation which has persisted to this day.
This novel, along with The Grapes of Wrath and Of Mice and Men is a work which cemented Steinbeck’s reputation in that regard.
Two “Party” (presumably Communist Party) activists – the seasoned campaigner Mac MacLeod and his young apprentice Jim Nolan – infiltrate a group of itinerant fruit pickers with the intention of provoking a strike and violent confrontation with the growers.
در نبردی مشکوک داستان افرادی است که علیه ظلم طبقه بالای جامعه ایستاده اند و مبارزه می کنند .
جیم از گذشته از زندگی اش خسته شده و به انجمن می پیوندد و در گوشه ای از کشور حقوق سیب چینان کم شده .
جیم و مک به آنجا می روند تا اعتصاب را رهبری کنند.
این رمان نه فقط یک داستان درباره بخشی از تاریخ امریکا است بلکه راهنمایی برای همه فعالان اجتماعی است.
مخاطراتی همچون همراهی نکردن کسانی که برای حقوقشان می جنگیدند.
از اینرو در نبردی مشکوک نام گرفته است.
Already on the bitter edge, the migrant workers are at the mercy of the growers, the Capitalists, unless they can band together to be a force to be reckoned with which makes them ripe picking for the Communists.Jim, a new recruit for the 'Reds', wades into this maelstrom with all the good intentions in the world.
The Capitalists don't care about the workers so long as their apples get picked, but that's as true of the little guys as it is the bigger ones.
Best of all, the book made me think a lot.
This book is the immediate precursor to "The Grapes of Wrath", one of the greatest books ever written, and for that reason alone deserves 3 stars.
Many of the themes and issues in "Grapes" were first introduced here.
However, the communists or reds, were not very sympathetic or even interesting.
I really didn't care what happened to them.
But the Jobes in "Grapes" could have fallen right out of my family tree (my mother's family went to Arizona in '39 to pick cotton) and were much more believable and true to life.
Steinbeck is my favorite author and should be read by anyone who likes great writing.
As the book opens, one of the main characters, Jim Nolan, joins the Communist Party.
The book follows their efforts to get the strike off the ground and Jim’s growth as an organizer as he learns from his more experienced partner.While both Mac and Jim are often sympathetic, the book is far from a love letter to the Communist Party.
Throughout the book, Steinbeck also offers a crash course in mob mentality as the fruit pickers are eventually coaxed and manipulated into staging their strike and then to keep their resolve up in the face of inevitable pushback from the growers and local authorities.
That the battle will be lost is foreshadowed with the quote that opens the book.
The problem that this book runs into is that its author went on to write a book you may have heard of: the towering, hulking Great American Novel known as The Grapes of Wrath, in the shadow of which In Dubious Battle humbly resides.
In every way possible, this book feels like a practice run for The Grapes of Wrath.This is the first book in what some call Steinbeck's Dust Bowl Trilogy.
In Dubious Battle, Of Mice and Men, The Grapes of Wrath.
Where Of Mice and Men tells a mostly nonpolitical, simple, perfect little story, In Dubious Battle and The Grapes of Wrath tell essentially the same story.
Il Dottor John SteinbeckQuello che lascia senza fiato è la potenza e l'attualità di questo romanzo c
There is not a Steinbeck novel I don't like, but In Dubious Battle has stayed with me the longest.
This novel is also the one that Steinbeck fans often "forget" about.
Much of the novel relates this view through dialogues between Jim, the new volunteer in the party and Mac, a long time organizer who knows reality all too well.
This is a novel that gets down in the mud with the characters and takes you into a world that you may not want to go but need to know about.
Additionally, Steinbeck was known to do extensive research before writing his novels, so the lack of historical accuracy, with respect to women's critical presence in the work-force during the Industrial Revolution, was a bit unbelievable.
Mac, the head of The Party, is an example of this corruption, having used his authority to further The Party's agenda, with little regard for the lives that may be lost on that journey.
I do think this novel is worth reading, especially if you're a Steinbeck fan, as it provides some elements of classic Steinbeck (working-class struggle) and presents interesting questions and perspectives; it's good food for thought.
Desi inrudit cu Soareci si oameni prin tematica abordata, acest roman nu e la fel de puternic. E, in schimb, un bun studiu al dinamicii grupurilor. Merita citit.
However, while this breakthrough was a relatively easy going book, very much in keeping with the future classic 'Cannery Row', 'In Dubious Battle' tackles more serious subject matter, portraying an apple pickers' strike orchestrated by 'the Party' (which party is never made clear)in a Californian valley.The main action of the novel is held together by the following of Jim Nolan, a new member of the party, whose father was legendary in 'red' circles, and who becomes active under the mentorship of Mac, an experienced strike organiser, as they seek to organise the apple pickers in their fight for better terms from the farmers whose crops they are picking.
Steinbeck, insanlığın kapitalist sistemle ve en çok da kendisiyle ettiği o bitmeyen kavgasını anlatıyor. Son derece kötü çalışma koşullarına sadece elleriyle direnmek isteyen mevsimlik işçilerin karşısında her grevde olduğu gibi silahlar ve iki yüzlü yöneticiler var. Fakültedeyken sık sık duyduğumuz işçi grevlerini adeta yaşamışçasına hissettiriyor Steinbeck. Ve koşullar değişse de geçen yıllara rağmen emek-sermaye dengesizliğinin asla değişmediğini görmek gerçekten çok üzücü. Steinbeck kalemiyle hala tanışmamış kitap severler için başlangıç kitabı olabilecek kadar güzeldi!
Do the 'ends justify the means', I believe is one of the main tenets of the novel, and whilst you begin to have great sympathy with the plight of the migrant workers in the face of nasty intimidation, hunger, demoralisation and dissent within their own ranks etc, the methods employed by the CP members sometimes are equally questionable too, such as using the shooting of a striker to 'rouse' up the workers.
Ve insan, karşısına çıkan her engeli aşmış, her düşmanı yenmiş. Yalnız bir tanesinin üstesinden gelememiş. Evet, yalnızca kendisini yenememiş. İnsanlık nasıl da nefret ediyor kendi kendisinden.3,5/5⭐⭐⭐John Steinbeck'i uzun zaman sonra okuma fırsatı bulabildim ve yazardan okuduğum ilk kitabı adını en çok duyduğum Gazap Üzümleri olmuştu ve her ne kadar baştan sona sabır isteyerek okunan bir kitap olsa da son bölümlerinin mükemmelliği karşısında ağzım açık kalmıştı. Bu beğeni hissiyle yazardan ikin
İnsanlık nasıl da nefret ediyor kendi kendisinden.3,5/5⭐️⭐️⭐️John Steinbeck'i uzun zaman sonra okuma fırsatı bulabildim ve yazardan okuduğum ilk kitabı adını en çok duyduğum Gazap Üzümleri olmuştu ve her ne kadar baştan sona sabır isteyerek okunan bir kitap olsa da son bölümlerinin mükemmelliği karşısında ağzım açık kalmıştı.
Bu beğeni hissiyle yazardan ikinci okumaya karar verdiğim kitap Bitmeyen Kavga oldu.
Hatta bu son bölümlere kadar devam etti.
Son bölümde Jim'in başına gelenlerle arkadaşının onun için kurduğu cümle gerçekten surata atılan bir tokat gibiydi.
Sanırım belirli aralıklara bölerek okuduğum için sabredip okuyarak elde edeceğim beğeni de gıdım gıdım azaldı.
Benim için ortalama bir kitaptı.
He shows all of the ways that the local power structure tried to prevent and break strikes, as well as all of the steps the strikers had to take to keep from running afoul of those laws.
And, not surprisingly, the laws were not on the side of the strikers.I have no true understanding of economics so it was actually fascinating to me to learn things like the majority of the apples were being disposed of to keep the prices artificially high.Overall, it was interesting and I'm glad I read it, but I doubt I'll be reading it again soon.
I realized a little way in that I had read this before. It is an early Steinbeck novel and it is very good. It follows Communist Party agitators in the early 30s who deeply believe in what they are doing, as flawed as it may be. It reminded me of the show "The Americans" in the ability of people on all sides to convince themselves of their righteousness. The old 1946 copy I have was my parents and it virtually fell to pieces as I read it.
The story made me think of my maternal grandfather who was an almond rancher in the Northern Central Valley and I think probably had experiences similar to the people in the book.
A "party" organizer, Mac shows up with his young protégé, Jim Nolan, and start to create situations that make people want to strike.
French says it's a dubious battle because it shouldn't have happened and Steinbeck was trying to call for an end of man's inhumanity to man.
I think there becomes a point when people just can't take their situation anymore and take a stand.
"In Dubious Battle" is a great book, one that is sure to make you angry and sad while reading it.
The book follows the character of Jim along, as he joins the "party" and eventually accompanies Mac into apple picking country to organize a strike.
The bulk of the book's philosophy is expunged in conversations between Jim, Mac, and Dr. Burton.Steinbeck takes a sociological perspective of labor unions, specifically at mob mentality.
Steinbeck is a master at portraying the common man, and keeping the book exciting even when you can guess how it will play out.
Steinbeck is in good form with this novel, covering the struggle of orchard workers against a rich farmer, giving his usual eloquent description and engrossing characters. I don't hear this one being mentioned too often of Steinbeck's works, which is a shame.
Read this one during bouts of sleep deprivation and red wine drowsiness so I'll have to cross-reference some online summaries.I got the gist and it was beautiful and had so many Steinbeck tropes I love. Not ideal for a readathon though.
I did not read Steinbeck's novel about an attempt to organize migrant workers as part of My Big Fat Reading Project because it was published before 1940, the year I chose for the beginning of my project.
I read it now for a reading group and must say, it is a much better book than The Grapes of Wrath.All of the qualities I love best about Steinbeck are here.

This is the first Steinbeck I've read.
While this isn't Steinbeck's best known work, it should rank among his best.
He tells the story of a labor dispute in an agricultural community in California.
Agricultural workers at the time were white men who lived on the margins of society.
The story centers on the strike and the dynamics of power in the hands of a few local big growers, reduced wages for people with few other options for work, and questions of how to fight the big guys and if the "little" guy can win.
I am now definitely going to read more Steinbeck.
Bitmeyin Kavga'yı daha iyi anlayabilmek için ilk iş John Steinbeck'in hayatını bilmek bana kalırsa.
Çünkü bir işçi ailesinin çocuğu olarak dünyaya gelen ve okuyabilmek için birçok farklı işte çalışan Steinbeck işçilerin düşünce yapısını, onları örgütleyen 'kızılları', sosyalist olmayanların bakış açısını çok güzel yansıtıyor.
Sırf bu yönüyle bu zamana kadar yazılmış birçok kitabın önüne geçiyor Bitmeyen Kavga.Kitabı okurken beni en çok etkileyen Doktor Burton ile diğerlerinin konuşmaları oldu.
Burton, sosyalist değil ama bu zamana kadar hep onlara yardım etmiş biri.
Bana kalırsa davası uğruna çok sevdiği insanların ölüsünden yararlanacak kadar düşük biri.
Yazar, Jim'in değişimini çok iyi yansıttığı için en çok onun başına gelenler beni dehşete sürükledi.
Back in PBT days (circa 2004), I used to write little snippet reviews for every book I read but since I started using GR last summer, I've been so impressed by the high caliber of Quinten's reviews that I've been too intimidated to write my own.
But I'm going to start anyway.In Dubious Battle completes my run of all of the Steinbeck books at the Central Library, and certainly ends it on a high note.
Whereas I felt like I had to slog through Tortilla Flat (which immediately preceded this book in publication) and The Grapes of Wrath (three books later in the migrant workers series) , the relatively fast-paced plot and action in this one made it practically a page-turner.
Timing is everything, or so it seems.
I read this book long ago and I feel about it the same now as I did then, except then I didn't know how how express it.
So Looking back I See JS asIconic American author CheckNobel Prize winner CheckFailed as a labor CheckQuasi Recluse CheckDepression era writer CheckProletariat CheckSocialist Check Communist Possiblyoutlook: Big Guy Wins Little guys looses CheckLike USSR policies CheckDepressing as Hell Double CheckAlcoholic CheckDefeatist Check My conclusion: His work can turn victory into a defeat and a sunny dark.
Never to be read when you are having bad day.
Should I read it again?
Hum...Read it again or slash my wrists....Hum...about a tossup.

In Dubious Battle is a solid book.
It's Steinbeck's first full-length novel considering the others up to this point are more like novellas.
It's fast-paced for Steinbeck standards, has a distinct atmosphere, and has enough memorable scenes to translate to the big screen.
It also generates an emotional response from the reader, one of anger and frustration, which builds throughout.
I would argue it's his first book that successfully generates these emotions in a serious, non-satirical manner.
In Dubious Battle also differs from his other books up to this point because it has a political side to it in which he addresses communism in a multitude of ways.
