https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/330006.The_Interpretation_of_Cultures
The book is structured around anthropological description, with Geertz relying on field data he gathered mostly in the 1950’s and 1960’s.
Yet, it is certain that, if The Interpretation of Cultures were mere anthropological description, the book probably would not have survived.
First, the book altered how anthropologists perceived their work – The Interpretation of Cultures is an epistemological work.
The first chapter, Thick Description: Toward and Interpretive Theory of Culture, is frequently referenced by social scientists.
The essays include theoretical expositions (on religion, on culture, on the human mind), commentary on the social sciences, and presentation of anthropological results.
According to Geertz, the role of the anthropologist is, in a sense, to 'decode' the symbolic meanings of these certain events, practices, customs and interactions that take place within a specific culture, however insignificant they may seem to the observer.
As Geertz says, the analysis of it is not an "experimental science in search of law" but, rather, "an interpretive one in search of meaning." It is the job of an anthropologist to first attempt to understand how an event is interpreted by the culture in which it takes place, then to make an interpretation of that interpretation, and then it is left up to the reader of anthropological writing to interpret the final interpretations.

Everyone at the LSE may hate him but what do they know ;-) Geertz really introduced the culture as texts idea which has played a huge role in shaping modern anthropology. Even if you're not into anthro, he's just a wonderfully talented writer and fascinating thinker
Antropologia...No livro "A Interpretação das Culturas", no artigo "Jogo Profundo: Notas sobre a Briga de Galo em Bali"..."O que a briga de galos diz que diz, em um vocabulário de sentimentos - é a emoção do risco, o desespero da perda, o prazer do triunfo.
Assim, o que diz não é apenas que o risco é excitante, a perda deprimente, ou o triunfo gratificantes, tautologias banais de afeto, mas que é destas emoções, assim exemplificadas, que a sociedade é construída e indivíduos são colocado juntos.
Ir às brigas de galos e participar delas é, para o balinês, uma espécie de educação sentimental." Clifford Geertz, diz que a Cultura é formada por teias de significados tecidas pelo homem.
Geertz said he grew up wanting to be a writer but failed. This is one result of that failure: a very good book of close observation & philosophy masquerading as social science.
I read it. And re-read it. It's brilliant work. If you understand it.
Possibly the most influential book of my college years.
Geertz threw down the gauntlet at social science, defining a generation of anthropologists in the process.
When I first read this text back in college, I was enticed by the logic and liberation of his “thick description.” Only later would I realize how big a threat Geertz posed to the inter generational project of legitimizing anthropology to the scientific community.
Like all the great ethnographers, he emerged from his fieldwork with not only insights of his host culture, but also with a key for understanding the human condition.
Limitations and miscalculations aside, this text matters because, like Boas, Mead, Levi-Strauss, et al, it rebirthed the enterprise.
Another classic of sociology. That doesn't mean that it's not really hard to get through, and you should definitely read Durkheim, and Weber, and Freud first, since he responds to them.
I've read a couple of essays in this book before, and figured that I should reread them, considering how seminal Geertz has been in my own field, and how influential at my university (for example, his influence on the early New Historicists).
The most important sections would be (I believe) his introductory essay, "Thick Description: Toward and Interpretive Theory of Culture" and "Notes on a Balinese Cockfight".
I believe the latter is one of his best known examples of his "Thick Description" in practice.
My late professor Alan Dundes edited a casebook on the Balinese Cockfight which I hope to read (I've heard a presentation on it).
Okay, I acknowledge your reservations about Clifford Geertz. Lots of people have reservations about Clifford Geertz. Benedict Anderson, for example, has reservations about Clifford Geertz, as do I. I acknowledge your concern that Geertz's "semiotic approach to the study of culture" may be inherently--irredeemably--slippery, woolly-headed flimflam papered over with a raft of highbrow references and a better than average prose styleBut whatever, I defy anyone to read "Deep Play: Notes on the Balinese Cockfight," the final essay in this collection, without laughing aloud. And isn't that why we read anthropology, for the yuks?
Un testo profondo.
Saggi scritti in un arco di tempo lungo : il tempo della ricerca.
Una ricerca vera, quella in cui ci si sporca le mani nell'anelito d'afferrare qualcosa di sfuggevole : la cultura.
Questo testo, seppur difficoltoso ad una prima lettura per chi digiuna spesso e volentieri di questioni antropologiche e filosofiche, è una vera boccata d'aria, che ora ha più di quarant'anni.
Ma non è aria viziata, non è stantia.
È una brezza che scardina gli "-ismi" e le fredde poltiglie dei vecchi accademici.
Bere da questo pozzo, da quello di Clifford Geertz, disseta e dà nuova energia.
"Wow! In a world where most people think culture is something you eat or gawk at, Geertz empowers the mind by making it the lens through which culture is seen and understood as a complex web that is dynamic and embedded with aesthetic, meaning and very human narrative."
It's a bit dense, but a must read.
Symbolic Anthropology at the highest expression. One of the creators. One of the best Anthropologists of all time.
I think the dullest essay was "The Integrative Revolution," about the evolution of several of what Geertz called "the new states" (Indonesia, Malaya, Burma, India, Lebanon, Morocco, Nigeria), mainly because it was much less about culture and more about how the states were shaping up as states, post-colonially.
That reminds me, though, that I really enjoyed reading what Geertz had to say about Morocco.
It's been especially interesting to be reading Benedict Anderson's  A Life Beyond Boundaries for the last week as I finished the last few essays in this book.
My cultural anthropology processor had our class read exerts out of this novel. It was quite interesting learning about the way of life and acceptance among Balinese culture but at some points I found the text a bit dense and difficult to understand until we went over it in class.
Useful definition of religion but he seems unclear on how to differentiate culture from it. I like how he discusses culture as the ultimate reality and how the human cannot be disconnected from it as Enlightenment thinkers like to assume.
academic, aged ... hard going but mostly worthwhile
Amazing book !!
This book was sometimes tedious, but Geertz's writing style is very clear and engaging, and "Deep Play: Notes on the Balinese Cockfight" is an absolute classic.
Il suo pensiero contorto, il suo criticismo senza mezzi termini, la sua dissimulazione teorica hanno, da un lato, contribuito alla sua esclusione dal Monte Rushmoore dell’Antropologia, dove sono scolpiti i volti degli agli altri founding fathers dell’antropologia culturale americana, ma, dall’altro, la sua presenza è una costante enigmatica e le sue idee sono un specie di porto sicuro, cui prima o poi si approda quando si comincia a riflettere su temi quali la reale valenza del fieldwork, la pratica etnografica e il senso del lavoro dell’antropologo.
La lettura si rivela fruttuosa tanto più si riesce a penetrare nello stato d’animo che vuole indurre ogni frase battuta sul rigo: è una lotta sospesa tra tormento ed estasi in cui è intrappolato l’uomo-antropologo che riflette sulla sua dimensione naturale e di costrutto culturale.
In interpreting cultural nuances, Geertz warns ethnographers of merely documenting observations without taking part, getting involved and seeing how their presence and understanding are in fact interconnected with the outcome of what is documented.
What Geertz proposes is for us to keep away from the limitations of functional description, and venture, instead, to assess its scene, to make sense of the circumstances, and most importantly, to get involved in the process.Notes from the midterm:The understanding of symbols and social reality is not to be limited to the human mind, but geared towards focusing on the relations that are built around people.

While it is beginning to show its age, partially because many of his ideas became a part of the way anthropology, sociology, and history now operate, Geertz's work is still a worthwhile read.
Of most importance are his broader chapters (especially chapters 1 and 2) that lay out his views on how to study culture(s).
While his chapters based on his own fieldwork are good case studies, they may not be as useful to the general scholar.
Geertz does spend a lot of time referencing and arguing against specific social theorists, which can be a stumbling block for those not familiar with their works.
I like Geertz - mostly. His discussions are rich on data, and refreshingly non-wanky (perhaps the 'non-wanky' comment is a reflection of my own inadequate knowledge of theory, and a frustration I have about the contest of ideas - when not directly related to experience / data - starts to look, to me, indulgent). I sometimes worry that "thick discription" is used (or misused) by some researchers / students to excuse a lack of theory in their own work, but I don't hold Geertz himself respnsible for that.
Excerpts for school. In 2012, I had no idea what Geertz was talking about. In 2016, I think I understand more of it. The anthropologist should focus on specific, micro-scale incidents, seeing how meaning is created and deployed in a given place by human actors. This is instead of thinking about structural systems of language or cultural. Geertz is also very funny in the chapter about Balinese cockfights. The puns, the puns.
I think this is a great collection for moving from a textbook/lecture/I read one essay understanding of Greets to a broader understanding of what he actually wrote. At least that's. what it was for me. Two things that surprised me were his insistence on the importance of observable behavior, which in some ways goes against his reputation as a head-in-the-clouds symbolist, and the large amount of political anthropology.
Essential reading for understanding the ethnographic method and how to unpack observations & draw insights into meaning & culture through interpretatioin. It also makes for very good reading because of Geertz's excellent, lucid writing on a range of subjects, from festivals to gestures to cognition.
