https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37539457-normal-people
Sally Rooney is the real dealNormal People has been lavished with praise from critics, longlisted for the Man Booker prize and is apparently being adapted for television by the BBC. And it only came out last week! All that attention will no doubt attract quite a few readers who would not ordinarily touch this subject matter with a barge pole. Because this book:A) Is about young peopleB) Is a love story (but not a romance)C) Contains a fair bit of sex (which is crucial to the story, btw, and is n
Because this book:A)	Is about young peopleB)	Is a love story (but not a romance)C)	Contains a fair bit of sex (which is crucial to the story, btw, and is not graphic)All of which (possibly also the fact that the author is a 27-year-old woman) mean that Normal People will inevitably be dismissed by some as frivolous.
In Rooney’s imagining, Connell and Marianne as separate entities are less important than the interplay between them – their relationship dynamic and the influence each of them has on shaping the other, that’s the real stuff of this book: 
If you like a minutely observed novel about people and feelings that isn’t mawkish, I'd say give it a go.
Goddamit Sally Rooney and now I'm crying.
So as always you  need to judge for yourself because books fit people differently  Quite simply this book didn't  Fit Me. I really have no interest in reading about 18-20 something year college kid's on/off sexual relationships where they seem to only exist in their own little complex bubble and this book felt like a bubble.
The only character which I liked and felt any connection with in the novel was Lorraine.Perhaps this is more suited for a younger audience where they connect with the college scene or for readers who like complex relationship stories but for me this was a struggle from start to finish.
In simplest terms I didn't connect with this work at all and I would be best to chalk this up to a "reader/writer" mismatch and move on but I will try and articulate some of my reading experience.Some of my perplexity with Normal People is that I just couldn't relate to the twenty something, highly educated, politically aware and cynical young adults that populate this novel.
Marianne and Connell were of most interest to me when they started emailing each other, discussing novels and politics thus preventing them breaking up over some new emotional minutiae.
Like Conversations With Friends, this one is at heart a love story, but it is far from being a sentimental romance.At the start of the book in 2011 (a time of economic depression after the "Celtic Tiger" boom), Marianne is a loner, an outcast in her final year at school from a rich (view spoiler)[(and as becomes clear later abusive) (hide spoiler)] family in a small town in Mayo.
As in Conversations with Friends the second half of the book is darker and deeper than the first, (view spoiler)[and the ending has an element of ambiguity (hide spoiler)].The writing is sharp and witty throughout, and Rooney's ability to inhabit her characters is very impressive.
At one point Connell discovers that becoming part of a couple can even validate one's existence: "To be known as her boyfriend plants him firmly in the social world, establishes him as an acceptable person, someone with a particular status, someone whose conversational silences are thoughtful rather than socially awkward." She is also extremely perceptive about the journey from adolescence into adulthood, that point in your life where you fly the nest to take on the world and finally meet people with the same interests as yours - confident, excited and apprehensive all at once: "They were coming into college every day to have heated debates about books they had not read."However, there were a couple of things that bugged me.
For two people like Marianne and Connell, who know each other so well, I kept thinking, is this how they would really speak to each other?
The night before the Man Booker Shortlist was announced, I was approved for the eARC of this title, so I stayed up late finishing it.
Sadly it was not included in the shortlist, but if you like novels about relationships, this is excellent.
It traces Marianne and Connell's friendship from childhood, and also tackles class difference and family violence.
(I often find my favorite books from award lists are long but not shortlisted anyway.)Thanks to the publisher for granting me early access; sadly this doesn't come out in the USA until April 2019.
You can bide your time by reading her earlier work.
I have to admit I wasn't taken with Rooney's debut but I tried to read her second book with an open mind. The writing was quite good and some of the themes were interesting but I was rather bored by the cliché-characters. An array of stereotypical women who just want to be loved and who always question their self-worth and the men are behaving as if straight out of a 'boys-will-be-boys'-movie. And the ending is just plain cheesy. 2.5* (mainly because the writing was good)
Sally Rooney’s created a remarkably compelling pair of characters in Marianne and Connell and I felt their love so intensely it was like I was experiencing it with them.
And, though I know almost nothing about Rooney, it feels like a very autobiographical novel - most young writers tend to write about themselves to start with, after all.
She’s a young Irish woman who went to Trinity College, Dublin, on a scholarship, like Marianne, and the novel ends with the characters in their mid-20s, which is the same age I suspect Rooney was when she stopped writing this (she’s now 27 years old).
Key themes examined in the book include: Class dynamics and social privilege; Masculinity and feminity – and the privileges and burdens of each; The aftermath of the end of the Celtic Tiger, and its economic and social effects on the millennial generation that reached adulthood after it, including their loss of faith in capitalism (having already lost faith in the church); Power dynamics and how these can alter across different social milieu; Fitting in and standing out – and how different people can adopt different positions over time; Intimacy and independence ; Self-image and its interaction with abusive relationships and with depression.I described Sally Rooney’s last book – Conversations With Friends – as “an interesting debut by a young author writing with a fresh new voice about a young character experiencing a very old story (a woman having an affair with an older married man)”.
As this book ends up being so much more than the sum of its parts it's particularly difficult to summarize, but basically, it's a sort-of-love-story about Connell and Marianne, two young people growing up in small town Ireland together, who both move to Dublin for university in 2011.There isn't much going on in this book aside from Connell and Marianne's 'will they/won't they' relationship, but I wouldn't describe this as a romance novel as much as a novel about being human.
He dreads being left alone with her like this, but he also finds himself fantasising about things he could say to impress her.You’re not top of the class in English, he points out.She licks her teeth, unconcerned.Maybe you should give me grinds, Connell, she says.He feels his ears get hot.
She has a focused expression, like she’s looking through his eyes into the back of his head.You’re right, it’s not funny, she says.
I’m sorry.He nods, looks around the room for a bit, digs the toe of his shoe into a groove between the tiles.Sometimes I feel like she does act kind of weird around me, he says.
I inhaled this book. It’s as cunning and perceptive as Conversations with Friends, yet more deeply interior and tender. I’m cemented as a Sally Rooney fan for life. I love the cast of normal people her exceptional mind creates.
Or maybe they also tried to do it and actually did pass out, which might explain why they have failed to apply the editorial pencil with any intelligence in the 264 pages that follow.The more likely explanation, of course, is that the problem is mine – and I offer the following gems from Normal People on that understanding… • ‘He looks down into his lap, and exhales quickly, almost like a cough’.It’s hyperventilation time again.
In her first novel, ‘Conversations with Friends’, Sally Rooney introduced us all to her schtick – young Irish novels for young Irish people.
‘Conversation with Friends’ also lacked a cohesive mood and prose style.
The Guardian rightfully bashed Rooney as a non-visual writer, stating that the dialogue in the novel read like ‘he-said she-said reportage‘.
Yet the public warmed to the novel, and Rooney herself.
Therefore, the publication of her follow-up book, ‘Normal People’, was heralded from on high as if Rooney was finally gifting her adoring public with another darling epistle.Continue reading my review on my blog here.
I feel so fucking claustrophobic and depressed right now. WHY WON’T PEOPLE JUST TALK? COMMUNICATE?
Alas, though, I was let down.Normal People is very similar to Tender – which for some will be high praise indeed, though I never managed to finish Belinda McKeon’s novel – in that both realistically address the intimacy between a young woman and a young man during their university days and draw class and town-and-country distinctions (the latter of which might not mean much to those who are unfamiliar with Ireland).The central characters here are two loners: Marianne Sheridan, who lives in a white mansion with her distant mother and sadistic older brother Alan, and Connell Waldron, whose single mother cleans Marianne’s house.
Near the start of the book, Marianne feels a "thrill of femininity" when a man stares at her breasts and for a long time I struggled with that as I couldn't see how someone could write something like that in this day and age (I'll take advice from women, though, if it’s true!).
That’s entirely a personal preference: it’s not about whether this is a good or bad book, just about my own reaction to it.I also began to wonder if Rooney has a colour vision issue.
Around?!?!Overall, I enjoyed this a lot more than I did CWF, but I didn’t think it was a great book.
From her first novel “Conversations with Friends” to her new Booker longlisted “Normal People” she presents their stories about grappling with relationships and finding a place in society with deceptively straightforward prose.
This new novel is the story of Marianne and Connell who come from very different socio-economic backgrounds.
You can read this novel for the insights it gives into modern life and the plight of a section of an emerging generation, but it's moreover a modern romance which meaningfully engages the reader in the characters' growth as individuals and tantalizes with the question: will they or won't they get together?
Read my full review of Normal People by Sally Rooney on LonesomeReader

an abusive family, depression, etc.) very badly.Marianne and Connell aren't terrible people but god, they are so self-involved.
No one knows...Marianne is depicted by the author and the other characters as being the sort of person who does not to care about others' opinion of her but soon after a breakup with a cliched dick boyfriend she is obsessed with what people are saying about her...Connor is...intelligent?
Friends from college serve very little purpose, other than making the main characters seem "different" and "real" (special snowflake alert).What I disliked the most is that by the end neither Marianne or Connell show any sort of character growth.
This is as good as you’re hoping it will be and as different from CONVERSATIONS WITH FRIENDS as it needed to be. There was a lot of pressure on Rooney with this book and I’m thrilled to see her defying all book two expectations. Rooney is probably the most popular example of the incredible rising stars of Irish lit. There are so many great young Irish writers you simply have to be reading and Rooney is clearly leading the charge.
More tightly focused and less trope-y than Conversations With Friends, it's a classic coming-of-age university novel but very much of this era (which makes me curious about how it will age and be regarded retrospectively).The plot is simple.
The novel is all interiority and focuses entirely on Marianne's and Connell's relationships (with each other and with other people).
The other gender dimension that surfaced over the course of the novel is that while both Connell and Marianne are plagued by self-doubt, anxiety, and depression, Connell's psychological problems don't stop him from being academically successful and able to develop longer term career goals.
Perhaps it was the great cover illustration that got me started, I'm not sure, but I read this book as if it were a graphic novel.
I imagined each scene as part of a panel and read the speech as if in blurbs.
But in my scenario, there would have been quite a few panels with empty blurbs because the two main characters, an on-off couple, often failed to communicate.
I think this was one of the really great points the author made: how people can be really close, as close as sardines in a tin, and yet each remain in a separate compartment.
“I don’t know what’s wrong with me, says Marianne. I don’t know why I can’t be like normal people.” I will officially read (and likely love) everything Rooney writes. I prefer her debut to this one but the consistency in her writing and the themes she explores make her and her works a landmark to understanding our current generation -- which can be misinterpreted as very many things (according to the media, most of them not good) but, mostly I think what makes me and many other people in my gen
In this book in particular, it becomes a specially important moment of relevance to one of the characters.In the end, just like in her debut, there’s something unspokenly relatable about her characters and their stories, their struggles and achievements, all covered in a film of melancholia that will make the reading of this book a sensory experience that will likely gut you, make you feel hollow but you can’t quite tell why.
"Normal People" has the heat, tenderness, and satisfaction of a great romance novel, and then some. This is a book that believes in soul mates but rejects fantasy, embracing the conventions of the romance genre while transcending them with Sally Rooney's much-praised literary eloquence and keen social perceptions. Come for the Man Booker hype, stay for all the irony, intensity, and all-consuming ambiguity of young millennial love.
Maybe it’s just that for Rooney, aged twenty seven, doesn’t yet have the life experience and perspective, to write a more thoughtful account of college days?Given the media interest in the story, I’m left with the awful feeling that the book ends in classic TV series style.........set up for the sequel as our cast start work, start families, move to the next stage of life.Two particular aspects of the book especially diminished its impact for me.• The supporting cast of characters (Connell and Marianne dominate the book and the social interaction), are lightly drawn and never engage the reader.1.
I was a little sceptical about picking up Sally Rooney's second novel, Normal People, due to the sheer amount of hype which it has been getting since its publication.
Whilst I was a little disappointed by the ending, which I felt was a little too twee to match the tone of the rest of the book, Rooney's writing is so pitch-perfect, and her characters so real, that I could not give this anything other than a five star rating.Normal People is incredibly immersive; beware, and only pick it up if you have a whole afternoon free to spend in its company.
For her second novel Sally Rooney serves up a dish of modern romance with a generous seasoning of Irish angst to dilute any hint of smaltz. Excruciatingly explicit sex scenes add to the authenticity of self-conscious adolescent encounters, so that the story reads like the auto fiction of a debut novel.The relationship dynamic of the two characters, with their witty interplay and flashbacks of miscommunication interspersed throughout the narrative, adds to the erotic tension of what becomes an ongoing ‘will they/won't they’ suspense, in the style of a somewhat more sexually-graphic version of David Nichols’ novel 'One Day’.
If you've read the story to this point, you can find many, many things that have mortified Marianne more than this discovery.By the time Marianne arrives in Sweden, Rooney has her in a dissociative state, "For weeks now she has had this feeling of moving around inside a protective film, floating like mercury.
