https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/784719.The_One_Minute_Manager_Builds_High_Performing_Teams
Гол тайлбарласан санаа нь бол Situational leadership буюу баг ямар нөхцөл байдалд, аль шатанд байгаагаас хамаараад удирдагч өөрийн арга барилаа өөрчилбөл багийг сайн зохион байгуулж, амжилттай байлгаж чадна гэдэг санаа байлаа. Номыг уншсаны дараа бол гол санааг нь номон дээрх нэг зурганд багтааж болох юм билээ.
This book shares a very interesting view on the stages of teamwork.I'd give 5 stars for the ideas that the book presents (which can be summarized in 2 pages); the writing style, on the other hand, doesn't even deserve 3 stars;This book contains a lot of time-wasting repetition and is written in a way as if the readers are young children.
Dit boek luisterde ik tijdens 2-uur durende skate tocht :) Eerste half uur was even doorbijten (lange lijst opgesomd waar geen einde aan komt), daarna komt Blanchard met de bekende verhalende manier terug en maakt hij het tastbaar, voorstelbaar, concreet.
Blanchard legt in dit boek uit dat elk samenwerkend team 4 fases (1.
orientatie, 2.
En dat iedere fase een ander type leiderschap nodig heeft.
Boek heeft een hoog "ah tuurlijk, logisch"-gehalte maar goed om zo expliciet benoemd / uitgelegd te krijgen om daarmee zelf sneller fases waarin teams zitten te signaleren en met teams concreet aan de slag te gaan.
En klassisk Ken Blanchard-bok där historien så klart har en central roll men där det högre betyget i större grad kommer från redskapen och insikterna som boken för med sig.
Enkelt förklarat kommer ingen som läser boken att komma ihåg historien (som man faktiskt gör med andra Blanchard-boker som t.ex.
Fina fisken eller Gung HO) men däremot kommer de som inte tidigare kommit i kontakt med "Situationsanpassat ledarskap" aldrig att glömma det redskapet.
Den får en att förstå att det är varje ledares roll att anpassa sitt ledarskap efter sina medarbetare.
Att det finns inget mer orättvist än att behandla alla lika.
I think the "story" is good and the process is ok... the UNDERLYING principles that make the process effective are very important and completely missing from the book. Things such as knowledge workers being highly motivated by autonomy and an opportunity to master their craft. When you know the underlying stuff, any process will do so I suppose if you just want a process without bothering to know the fundamentals, then just do what the book says. Otherwise, read about the fundamentals in books like "First, Break All the Rules".
Read for class. It was fine. The characterization and "storyline" made it a bit more clunky than I would have preferred. While I have the highlights noted without much effort, I still could've skipped the drawn out story.
Great book with overview on group dynamics
We train animals but we educate people!
Easy to read, hard to believe
It takes you through the lifecycle of a team, providing suggestions for managing teams through the various phases they go through.
Turned out to be helpful after all!Two things would have improved this book for me.
I wouldn't be reading the book if I needed to be tricked into listening to its message.
A second improvement would be to provide suggestions for team members (non-managers) as they move through the teaming phases.
Yes, it's a manager-oriented book, but it wouldn't have taken much to add in some non-leader perspectives.
It consisted of a contrived story about three people discussing the four stages of team development.
It read like a terrible sketch used during mandatory professional development training.
My team is the in Dissatisfaction stage because we always spend our time arguing and we hate being in meetings!
I'm so glad that I read this book or else I would have NEVER been able to identify the signs and known that my team is dissatisfied!") This book should be rewritten immediately as a one pager and be called "4 Stages of Teams and the Associated Appropriate Leadership Styles that You Can Read About in One Minute".
Glad I read this during class while my students were working so I didn't waste any actual time.
I have been reading the One Minute books since I trained with the Blanchard's in 1988 and they have continually delivered.
I really enjoyed this one because it focused on group dynamics and forming high performing teams.
Always the trick is how to get groups of people that might never have chosen to be together under other circumstances create magic I the workplace.
Definitely a worthwhile read.
I constantly read these types of books because I think that in order to be a good leader you must always be learning and trying new things to help the team succeed.
"The One Minute Manager builds high performing teams" is an excellent book that simply explains through examples the four stages that teams go through and that a different leadership style is required in each; namely Orientation, Dissatisfaction, Integration and Production.
For each stage, it is clearly articulated what the Characteristics are, what the Needs of the team are, what the Issues are that need to be addressed and what type of leadership style is appropriate.
It is a very quick and easy read, written as a conversation, and I found it very easy to relate to when I looked at various projects I had been involved with.
This book relates to functioning well in a team and anyone could gain from the principles found within. Those currently in teams, veteran team workers, or leaders. What I like most about this book is that the information was given in a fictional tale that engages the reader. It's short, sweet, and to the point and written so that people of all ages and backgrounds may learn from it.This is not your usual self-help book. Teaching through parables is not an new concept, but it is not a well-used tactic today, but the authors obviously mastered the art.
An easy read on fundamental concepts of teamwork and managing teams with simple common sense. It formalizes what I think most people already know abt teamwork but probably can't put it in prose. The idea of having a process observer during meetings is kinda weird and I figure a lot of gut feel is required during application. Nonetheless, it's not something that you can't get the hang of after enough experience.
Not the best I've read in the series.Still a delightful read and a good re-cap on the previous books. Focuses more from a leader/manager point of view but there isn't really much new here to learn if you've read the previous books. Some new elements in there and worthwhile if you're in need of a refresh of the One Minute Manager concepts.
Discusses how to apply Situational Leadership skills to teams as opposed to one-on-ones. Kind of repetitive and a bit wordier than the other One Minute Manager books I read, and thus I found myself drifting off on more than one occasion.
This little book has lots of ideas about working in groups. It presents four stages that groups go through in a work environment which include:OrientationDissatisfactionProductionIntegrationIt is written in story form and can be read in one setting.
To build teams, you have to understand individuals. Leaders who take the time to understand where each person on the team is coming from and how they operate will reap greater rewards than leaders who think that every person on their team is built from the same mold.
The book is really short (it takes 2-3h to read it) but it has so much great and useful content!
Nice fictional story to learn more about the dynamics of teams. Recommended by a co-worker, this book is helpful to keep people motivated. Quick and easy read!
Read for work.
Situational Leadership theory. Bow.
Easy to read.
I liked it!A nice integration of a good number of the other Blanchard books. I think I'm a collector of these little books now. Gotta catch 'em all, or something. :)
Not as good as the one minute manager but ok.
What i liked about this book is how it classify the stages teams goes through .
Fantastic team building fundamentals
Good information, but this could have just as easily been a leaflet
Easy Practical Tips to help employees focus
