https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/105578.One_Night_at_the_Call_Center
I hate that I sat on the freeway in traffic thinking "well, I guess it's for a certain sort of reader that doesn't read a book for its beautiful language or interesting characters, it's a pop parable designed for shallow, ignorant people, and shallow people deserve books too, especially when the parable has the message of staying true to yourself" but you are pandering prejudiced poorly written trash and the fact that you don't even know you're trash makes me even angrier.
An average Joe (Or should we say sasi?) sort of guy as the protagonist, a charismatic usually hot headed friend, a very beautiful girl who's usually out of bounds : These are your characters.Have the protagonist do something stupid (usually in an inebriated state) and have a lot of 'oh shit' and 'Wtf' moments, Add in a scene where our average sasi falls into bed with the hot out-of-bounds lady friend and have him repeatedly talk about how he cannot believe she is in love with him, the grand finale involves our guy regaling his tale to all ye suckers.*Head desk*My second argument, which is specific to this book, is built upon a very small plot point in it; Maybe I'm wrong but (view spoiler)[ In the scene where the accident happens and the gang gets a phone call from God, I cannot help but wonder how easily they believed it to be as such.
Like a Douglas Coupland book set in India, this novel follows a group of six people working the night shift at a failing call center on Thanksgiving Day. They have to deal with Americans who don’t know how to work their appliances, but they also have their own personal problems—families, romances, career woes—to grapple with.I liked Bhagat’s characters a lot; I enjoyed their somewhat meandering conversations and their relationships with each other.
And, okay: there are a lot of things about this country’s policies toward the rest of the world that suck.
This was the first Chetan Bhagat book that I'd read, soon after it was published, and trust me, I totally regret the decision!It is one of the trashiest books ever written, by an author(!) whom I consider to be armed with more strategies on how to sell his book, than on how to write a better story!This one man singlehandedly allowed the standard of contemporary Indian English literature to plummet down to such depths, that now no one can really assign how low it has fallen!
He inspired thousands by establishing the fact that to write, you DO NOT need to read.
Getting to know about a call center's lifestyle was an experience in itself.Although I didn't enjoy the story much but I know people for whom it would be an amazing read.
This book was massively popular on release though its poor structure and ridiculous plot were well known.
I blush every time Chetan Bhagat is considered the shining beacon of modern Indian Literature.
This book describes the sordid saga of Indian call centre employees.
Trudging through ridiculous situations and horrible dialogues, one can find choice insults at the general American public.
The characters in the book suddenly find true meaning in their lives when god decides to ditch his "booming voice out of the sky" routine and calls them up on a cellphone(coz they are call centre employees!).Not recommended to anyone at all!
This is the only book I have ever read where the author thanks Microsoft and MS Word in the acknowledgments section.Pretty thin soup, overall.
I picked it up because it's been very popular at the library, and I was interested in the depiction of what it's like to be a young person in India working at a call center.
Bhagat's main thrust is that his group of five characters need to face reality, stand up for themselves and have the courage to succeed -- and that India needs to do the same thing.
And if you've read the above sentence, you can pretty safely skip the book.
The resemblance of the storyline with Chetan's previous book (Five Point Someone) made the book pretty dull and almost predictable. This book very simply leaves you depressed. Don't just follow the herd...give this one a miss!
I think this is the best book i have for quite sometime because it depicts so realistically what goes inside the call centers.Also you really can relate to some of the characters...the story holds you till the end and very enjoyable.....
What an utter piece of s**t! If I try to enumerate the no. of things that make this book so horrible, I might make some of you curious about the book, in the process helping this book get another reader. NO. Let me simply state that reading this book would result in serious reduction of your ability to think properly, and would make you shudder every time you think about a call-centre, America, Indian youth, even God!Humble suggestion: avoid this book.
I can understand why a lot of people really hate this novel: It's not that well written, it's unrelentingly insulting in its attitude toward Americans, God enters into the story in a rather goofy way, and the ending is lousy.
I can also say that people who only interact with Americans through a call center job would understandably have a pretty skewed idea about us.
***SPOILER ALERT*** If the ending of the story were the least bit realistic, the characters, rather than saving their jobs at the expense of the gullible American public, would all be immediately fired and then probably sued for their actions.
Well thats a loser thing to read.I have heard of so highly about Chetan Bhagat and his first attempt toward writing i.e.
This was pretty idiotic stuff from someone who very proudly boast himself to belong to the best thinking tanks of the country (the IITs and the IIMs)The initial Call Center stuff was okay-okay and i wished it remained to that only but after that i thought Chetan Bhagat got a great boost of his "so-called" creative sparks, using which he generated a story that was pretty much hard and obnoxious to digest ( i mean what a ridiculous idea it would be to fool people around with a simple bug involved in the MS word and making them fearing it to such an effect which the author has proposed and GOD conducting a joint conference with all of them , :P pretty hilarious )
I can write a better book than this.
Don't know why Bhagat stoops this low when it comes to literary content.
(or just raw content for that matter.) His book(s) has/have got neither.
Now that he had his fair share of fame, made some quick bucks on the way, caught people's attention with his 4 "bestsellers", gave birth to a bagful of Bhagat wannabe's who as a matter of fact are now clogging up bookstores with their own versions of 5.someone(Spare a thought for those trees that went down in the process), isn't it time for his Magnum Opus or something of that sorts?
This book sucked at all levels. That the author found an audience is surprising, shocking even, considering the numerous books under the 'Indian-Writing' Genre which are so much better and that just go unnoticed. A group of call centre workers discuss work and personal life over the span of one work-night. Most of the dialogue is cliche, the personal situations that form part of the story seem like a melee of anecdotes picked from other books rather than inspired situations. The preachy conclusion is like a bad wrapper to an even worse gift.
It was not awesome, or good.Just in between somewhere..I liked the ending though.How God calls, and helps them out.
Sadly, you have to go through the beginning, middle and end to get the whole story.
It's like that typical book, with the lead character repenting himself and mumbling and grumbling all through.But, of course, in the end, everything's okay and he 'realizes' that he is to blame for all his acts, something you as a reader realized right at the beginning.Except for the occasional laugh and nice finish, this book is a complete waste of time.
If not appalled by the total lack of characterization and inane plot (this book makes Bollywood seem realistic!), not to mention BASIC EDITING, you will be disgusted by all the ethnic and racist stereotypes.
The sad part is that the topic of call centers, and the lives of the Indian youths that maintain them, is actually an excellent premise for a novel.
All surface, no substance.The fact that this book was a big hit in India kinda concerns me actually.
This is a rather astonishing book. I picked it up at the library partly because my son works at an American call center (Comcast) and partly because it is Indian. Were all familiar with Indian call centers; this is feedback from the other end. They arent too impressed with us, either. The fictional call center provides help to customers of a household appliance manufacturer, and the six person group involved handles the frequent and difficult callers. Though the money is good, all six face perso
I picked it up at the library partly because my son works at an American call center (Comcast) and partly because it is Indian.
We´re all familiar with Indian call centers; this is feedback from the other end.
The fictional call center provides help to customers of a household appliance manufacturer, and the six person group involved handles the frequent and difficult callers.
Though the money is good, all six face personal crises which are not improved by the fact they may be ¨rightsized¨ out of a job.
Yes, there is humor, and humor at the expense of Americans, but the tale is so much more.

I have read five point some one two times and two states also two times , so when i hadcollege break I thought to buy this book.
This book as usual was lucid to understand , the characters were well defined but I found the story quite dragging.It was not fast moving and had twists and turns but it was sometimes boring, I loved the humour shared by the author at appropriate places which was amazing but the ending was unrealistic according to me and I did not like it that much.
Any ways it was a good read never the less.Chetan bhagats books are interesting !
Bakwas!
well, Vroom is screwed up six ways from Sunday.Their problems and interactions are told believably and engagingly through dialogue and flashbacks to dates between Priyanka and Shyam, which illustrate the deterioration of their relationship.
A moral adult would find a better way to save a call centre than by terrorizing Americans with lies.
I'm actually amazed it got picked up by an American publisher.) Perhaps an author who has not managed to become a moral adult is the one most likely to resort to a literal Deus ex machina to fix his novel.
His style also irritates - the opening request to write down the answers to three questions, annoyed me, especially when repeated - this belongs to the genre of adolescent self-help seminars not novels.
The ultimate irony for me is Bhagat mirrors the modern society he is claiming to critique, this novel is reality-TV-lite writing, or should I say mockumentary that can be expanded into a Bollywood film.
Chetan's God becomes a mouthpiece for his self help - 'listen to the inner call' - do what makes you fell good.
It takes place during the span of one night, in which all of the leading characters want their lives to change.Told through the eyes of the protagonist, Shyam, it is a story of almost lost love, thwarted ambitions, absence of family affection, pressures of a patriarchal set up, and the work environment of a globalized office.
Other day I attended a pre-Ph.D synopsis presentation on anti-globalisation in Indian literature and this was one of the selected works.
All his other works are quite evidently autobiographical in which IIT and its entrance examinations play a major part and so this is a fresh breeze.
Like in 'Canterbury Tales' Chetan has succeeded in bringing together a section of Indian society in a simple setting.
There is the weeping lover, sighing money maker, victimized daughter and daughter-in-law and the estranged father.
On running after the much desired fame, money and reputation, they have forgotten something -- conscience and inner peace.
i didnt like the book that much. the story is so predictable if u know chetan bhagat s writing style. its a quick read. i decided to read this book only because this was the only book of chetan bhagat that i have nt read yet. the book is just ok ok.at the end god appears n starts giving advises. in my personal opinion though that thought was ok it could have been written in a better way.overall just read the book to say that u have read the book. dont keep much expectations.
I feel so dumb. I feel like the little intelligence I had has been taken away from me. I decided to read this book as an experiment, to judge what Chetan was like, because I heard so much about how terrible a writer he is and all. I apologise to myself for putting myself through this [I can't believe I read till the end.] It was all so lame - the story, the 'jokes', the writing, everything! Never again, is all I can say.
Nope, nope, nope. Just no. It was a struggle to read this and I would not wish it upon my worst enemy. If you don’t want to have a reading slump for the rest of your life, do yourself a favor and skip this book.
Ah, the days when my roommate and I would buy books and read. A corner of our rented flat was dedicated to piliing books in neat stacks. 'Five point someone' was quite alright, and this new book by him was already made into a movie 'Hello'. So, we thought, what the heck. Let's read this one too.
I fail to understand the hype!

