https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22889767-better-than-before
This book started off quite interesting, but unfortunately devolved into the author trying to convince everyone to adopt a low-carb diet and other habits she likes (and to not adopt habits she things are stupid, like drinking water), which was tiresome.
I would have liked to see more research and less personal anecdotes, as well as a more empowering attitude toward readers using the tips and skills to build habits THEY value rather than whatever random (and sometimes seemingly obsessive or unhealthy) habits the author happens to favor.
Turning it into a daily habit saves time and energy (and it keeps your gums healthy)."Habits make change possible by freeing us from decision making and from using self-control."Rubin sets out to discover just how we can change our habits for the better, and why some people are so good at adopting positive habits, while others may rebel or object to them.
The book is filled with practical advice that is based on real-world examples, and she includes innumerable anecdotes from her own life and from her friends, relatives, and even commenters on her blog.She identified seven basic areas that most people would like to improve: Healthy eating, Exercise, Finances, Rest and Relaxation, Accomplishments, Clutter, and Relationships.
There were a couple of good things in here but it mostly didn't work for me due to medical issues. But, I can see the advice working for a lot of people! 😊
I thought it was interesting to read about how different people respond to internal and external accountability.
As a teacher, it is incredibly helpful for me to know how to best hold people accountable and motivate them.
All to get to the point that she told her sister her new idea for a book topic.
Too many unnecessary details.She also sounds a bit insufferable to be around.
She doesn't sound very likeable.I would recommend this to people who have read her other books and want a quick, kind of light read, but not to someone who is looking for ways to change their own habits.
Should've been subtitled "First World Problems."Unscientific, clichéed twaddle wrapped up in the usual publishing/lifestyle guru gimmick.
The author comes across as exhausting and insufferable.
I didn't actually finish the book (taking the advice she gives in her podcast to stop reading books you don't like!
I came here to read reviews to see if I was crazy.One thing I did get out of it, though: some key insights into how to avoid being this type of controlling, minutia-obsessed, narcissist myself.
So, if you also have perfectionist tendencies, you might want to look to this author as an aspirational anti-hero.
Just go read some actual science, folks.
I don’t pay much attention to self-help literature – in fact, a book on how to deal with clutter is currently cluttering up my groaning bookshelves!But hey, it’s a new calendar year, and it seemed like a suitable time to try to break some bad habits (procrastination, unhealthy eating, lack of exercise, book and DVD clutter, unfiled paperwork) and maybe pick up some better ones.
(I don’t care about the occasional stare I get.)Rubin also made me think about how important clarity is when trying to establish a good habit.
Which is quite symptomatic of this genre, I have FINALLY understood, even if I quite liked the brilliant and fun business idea of Eat Pray Love.So thank you Gretchen Rubin for making me aware of the richness of my own messy life which quite sucks from time to time.
(Read the brilliant review of the Happiness Project on this site.) I have hereby, following this advice, finally given up the bad habit of thinking my life should fit in a self help book and I am telling the world to monitor me :).
Better still, to do a more thorough job of grouping Upholder, Questioner, Obliger, and Rebel with Lark/Owl, Starter/Finisher, Competitive/Non-Competitive, Over-Buyer/Under-Buyer, etc.This book felt more about Gretchen and her family than it did about actually coming up with strategies for people to use.
It would have been more useful of a book if it had been written as a toolbook/guide, rather than a narrative about experiences, and how the author has figured out how to be less of a know it all!!That being said, I really think a treadmill desk is in my future.
27 July 2015I'm a big sucker for time management and self-improvement books, but style of this one made me gag a little.
Rubin tells a story about a woman who was robbed, and when the thieves forced her to open her safe it contained her jewelry, cash, and chocolate.
She explained to the robbers it was so she wouldn't be tempted to eat more than a little at a time.Should you have a safe, a job as a TV show runner, and an overflowing bucket of privilege, you may find Rubin's writing style is for you.
I so enjoyed Rubin's "Happiness Project" that I was certain I would love this book as well.
I found this book to use many of the same phrases/concepts/examples as the "Happiness Project" which became a bit much reading them over and over again.
Telling ways to form habits is one thing, but telling the reader what habits are best went a bit far.
Although, I would also suggest that if I had the choice between the two books, then I would go with the "Happiness Project" over "Better than Before".
“For good and bad, habits are the invisible architecture of daily life.” Three cheers for a self-help book that is actually helpful!
I enjoyed Rubin’s previous book, Happier at Home, so jumped at the chance to read this.
As in the Myers-Briggs personality assessment, the four classical temperaments, or books ranging from The Five Love Languages or Eat Right for Your Type, Rubin sets up four categories that, while not a hard and fast rule, give an indication of how people will respond to habit formation.(See my full review at Nudge.)
She comes across as a know it all who tells everyone to eat lo carb and that their way of building habits is wrong.
There are some interesting ideas such as evaluating your personality type in connection to how you develop habits and why one would fight a certain way of habit building.
Perhaps I could've overlooked it, but too many of her habit development uses weight loss examples.
I probably became biased against her because I cannot take advice from a person who is fine being the "fussy one", hates traveling, trying new foods, doesn't have good manners and even admits to having a know it all manner.
This is a book that I read slowly, re-reading sections, underlining passages, absorbing. Gretchen Rubin's take on habits is fresh, wise, and utterly engaging. Better Than Before will have a profound effect in my life, and truly, it already is. I will regularly re-read highlighted passages and will likely post several in places I'm sure to see them daily.
As Rubin states “A habit requires no decision for me, because I’ve already decided.”Once we move our focus from questioning (Do I feel like doing this?) to habitual doing, we take control of our time.
The book offers concepts that are genuinely useful and that require no money to begin.Focus is brought to all of the little time that might be wasted in a day and shows how to make the most of it.
On the other hand, my annoyingly good-habited spouse is a Moderator, which means he is perfectly capable of bringing home delicious snacks, purportedly to be eaten at some mythic moment in the future when he'll want to eat some of them in a moderate fashion.
But I can tell you that he never does eat them, and the reason I know this is because I have eaten all the snacks already.
There are also a couple of mentions of Goodreads, which was fun (although one of them was an admission that to some, Goodreads is a difficult habit to form).
I find her writing (blog, previous books) to have a lot of usable insights that are buried under an insufferable, nearly narcissistic, know-it-all tone.
And she has a significant amount of seemingly unacknowledged privilege.
That tone and privilege were still present in this book, but at least she's noticing that what works for her doesn't necessarily work for everyone else.
I also kind of bristle at her Four Tendencies taxonomy, perhaps because I myself resist categorization in a lot of ways (ethnically, culturally, etc.).
I did highlight and bookmark a lot of great insight and wisdom, though, hence the three stars.
Meditating and cooking are difficult and time consuming, but clipping cat claws takes just minutes.
Why did I feel so much resentment whenever I saw the reminder on my phone?What makes Better than Before different from other books about habits is that it explores the individual differences relevant to habit formation.
Game changer!I’m still not 100% sure how to translate this into clipping the cats' claws, but the book gave me enough self-awareness to realize that the calendar reminder wasn’t doing me any favors.
I like to start the new year with a self-help type book.
I know it is trite but I like fresh beginnings.
I also love 'habits' and this book is a perfect complement to The Power of Habit, sort of a testimonial of someone who read The Power of Habit and went in search of more.
I was especially interested in her ideas about rewards because they were exactly parallel to Charlotte Mason's own writings on reward.
Reward has limited use in changing habits.She also mentions how we have to be careful when suggesting change to others, even our children.
This concept goes along with my own writings on not moralizing with our children.
Being able to form and stick with good habits (or break bad ones) depends on one’s motivation, which depends on one’s personality type.
Rubin discusses various methods that may increase one’s chances of success with forming or maintaining habits, using techniques such as monitoring behavior, scheduling, and accountability, as well as the easiest ways to get started and how to maintain momentum until the behavior is firmly established.
And good habits are worth developing because they help us live up to our expectations of ourselves.
While I always enjoy Gretchen Rubin's writing style and her willingness to try things so very systematically and then write about it, often her books make me think, "Should I really be this concerned with crafting my own personal happiness?" and "Aren't we dissecting this just a little too much?" It's all a bit "meta," and feels very much like first-world navel-gazing.
That is what Gretchen Rubin has offered in her excellent book on the power of habit and harnessing it to improve your life.Often using friends and family to help her test her techniques and theories, we the reader are able to see her models at work in a fun and relatable way.
I appreciated her including the times it didn't work as it made the book feel more honest.A big part of her habit building technique includes getting to know yourself better, so the habits you build will actually stick.
For a long time I found her a little....annoying.
But recently I started listening to her podcast and for come reason she finally clicked with me.
Now that she has been doing the podcast for a while (and I've caught up listening to most of the episodes) there is a lot of ideas and material repeated in this book.
I don't think my life is going to be dramatically different but the next time I want to change a habit, I think I understand a little better about what that will take for me to do it.
It can be easier to form good habits, or can also interfere with already established good habits.9) Lightning Bolt moments - Rubin states that she experienced a Lightning Bolt moment after reading Why We Get Fat: And What to Do About It. She immediately changed her diet and began telling her family and friends about the book.10) For some people, abstinence is easier than moderation, therefore, if they want to change a bad habit, rather than simply reducing the frequency, they need to abstain from the behavior completely in order to be successful.11) Making things more convenient usually increases the likelihood of sticking with a habit, whether the habit is good or bad.
It has to do with your personality type and what motivates you.For example, according to the book, I’m an Obliger, so I meet my outer expectations but resist my internal expectations.
It tells me what I value and what motivates me, according to Rubin.She also covers the Pillars of Habits: monitoring, scheduling, foundation, and accountability.
Figure out what works best for you—the foundation.I’d like to use myself as an example here for a moment—not that I’m particularly good at forming habits, but just because I inadvertently used those four methods to actually create a habit for myself last year.
Lots of good reviews here so I'm missing something I guess. I thought it was babbling nonsense.
Best for Rubin's fans and for younger people who really do want to use better advice than much of what is still most widely available.
And you may have already figured out that you're either a Lark or an Owl, but not have realized that it matters when you're reading tips to keep New Year's resolutions.
I've read a fair bit of the popular literature on the subject, but I expected, based on my enjoyment of Rubin's other two books, that I would get more out of this.
Overall, I highly recommend this for anyone who feels like they could be juuust a little better at life if they didn't keep screwing up on small things.
I really wish her editor had reframed the chapter where she introduces low carb eating as a new habit.
It almost read like sponsorship from a low carb diet company helped bankroll the book.
This is a great book for thinking about the small daily activities that help us or hurt us in living the life we want (or in realizing we only THINK we want a certain kind of life:)).
Understanding more about habits has me thinking of new tactics I can use in my life to help reinforce the habits I want to cultivate or ones I want to strengthen.
Overall I found it full of practical advice and I'm determined to make some of the advice work for me.Notes after my second read:This is a book that you need to revisit, to really encourage the messages to sink in.
I found just as inspiring second time round.
And I have taken on board some new tips, to try and form those habits that are important to me.
Gretchen Rubin is een toffe, vind ik. Aan dit boek begonnen omdat ik al een tijd verslingerd ben aan haar Happier podcasts en ze daarin vaak verwijst naar gewoontes en hoe essentieel die zijn.Dit boek is echt heel boeiend, zo boeiend dat ik overweeg om het een tweede keer te lezen om er alles uit te halen dat eruit te halen valt. Ook fan van de manier waarop ze persoonlijkheden opdeelt in vier types, zeer herkenbaar voor deze obliger pur sang. 8)
3.5
