https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37744.Wifey
a sad book about reaching out with a vagina in order to find love.it chronicles the great american dream for women of the recent past - find a nice enough well-off husband, get married, have kids,tend house, play tennis,make pot roast, find yourself terribly bored,attempt suicide, have an affair or two, stay with husband for the sake of the children or whatever, close book.
and i am glad that i waited to write this review until after the season premier of mad men, because they have their similarities - poor bored betty draper has one little affair and ends up marrying the guy and she gets called "a whore" by the man whose day is incomplete without an infidelity or two.
No sympathetic characters, no personal growth, no love, no happy ending.
Sandy's inability to see those around her, even her own family members, as real people who must have thoughts and needs, signs her own emotional retardation.
If I believed that Sandy was a real person -- that people were really this flat, this stupid and selfish and incapable of thought or growth, I would have to rethink a number of the philosophical underpinnings of my life.
I've met people who seemed this boring, but we are in Sandy's head and there should be more there.
Blume doesn't do the "normal" people justice.
Other than aitch-ee-double hockeysticks, I can only describe this book as a situation that would create a Romance reader.
Meet the main character of this book, Sandy.Sandy's unhappiness with a materially comfortable but lackluster marriage to a colorless husband is inarticulate.
I think I may know a Norman irl, someone who wants a routine and freedom to do his guy stuff and not have to say all that touchy-feely junk and is so confused why his wives have not stayed with him.
That seems to be the sad grayness of many domestic partnerships.Blume's writing in this book is simple, often sounding like she's writing for elementary school kids.
Sandy’s actions, like those of her masturbating visitor, are sexually motivated, but random and inexplicable.
Sandy recoils when Norman calls her “wifey” on their wedding night, but she acts diminutively, like a little girl.
Sex comes to her: the masturbating man on the lawn, the man whispering in her ear, the unbidden advances of Gordon (who, as her gynecologist, has admired her little pussy for some time!), and the return of Shep, the man she thinks she should have married.
To me, Blume got the inner life of this cowardly woman, Sandy, all wrong.
***SPOILERS***For example, Sandy’s outer narrative is the happy homemaker, and Blume’s inner narrative of her is the scared little girl who longs for sexual freedom.
When women frame them that way, I think it’s a smoke screen for an inner life of which they are honestly ashamed, or even of which they are so proud and protective that they can’t share it.
At its worst, this book is Eat Pray Love’s mom – trying to show that women aren’t idiots by working with the premise that women are children.
At the very least this book made me happy to be alive and married in 2015 not 1975.
When he lunged at her, Sandy didn't think, but simply grabbed the can of Lysol and sprayed him full in the face.Norman collapsed on the floor, howling like an animal.
I liked that Blume never inserted herself (heh) into the narrative: the whole book takes place in Sandy's (half-)brain, so we never get the relief of leaving her narrow world to a place where we might look down upon it and make smug authorial or readerly judgments.
You know if someone like Nora Ephron made this book into a movie, Sandy would kick Norman to the curb at the end, steal Shep's Porsche, and drive off into the sunset with the top down while "I'm Every Woman" or something blasted from the speakers.
There is not a moment of attraction, there's not a moment of thought about what she wants or what the ramifications are, or even what would follow, there is no emotion or realization about what she's missing in her life - Sandy basically gives up any power as a character when she can't think past the part that feels good - and it's so incredibly frustrating because she actually has a regular sex life with her husband, one in which she finds completion, even if she finds it boring and emotionless.
One of my coworkers was absolutely aghast that I would even think of reading it without first reading this Judy Blume classic.
Don't all librarian do that?)Judy B is one of my absolute idols and I adored reading this, mostly because it made me blush a million shades of red on the PATH.
And then came into the office, gave an arched eyebrow to that poster and said, "JUDY!" It was a nicely timed read alongside this week's Mad Men, although my notes are from three weeks old at this point and I can't remember which particular episode that is.
an adult novel by judy blume indeed.
did you write tales of a fourth grade nothing with that typewriter, judy?
this 1978 story of a bored new jersey housewife was mostly depressing, though that's probably the point.
as a novel for grown-ups, this book has more sex and awkwardly racist characters, sure, but judy b.
definitely has a lot more heart to her novels when she's writing for kids and teens.
i mean, margaret grew up in suburban new jersey too and she--and her parents--had a lot more going on as characters than sandy and norman and their family and friends could ever dream of.
Wow. That was pretty great.
Her books for kids, young adults and adults (dirty, filthy minded home-making adults) are a little exaggerated (unless this is seriously what it's like once you hit your near mid thirties) but never end in a totally wrapped up package.
The book is hilarious but it gets depressing when you relate to Sandy.
It's like an explicit version of something that would happen to Marge Simpson!
Like, you decide to stand up for yourself but it doesn't go well.
Wifey  tries hard to be The Awakening.
Where in The Awkening Edna came off as being a mature, insightful character, Wifey's Sandy, in contrast, seems more like a never-satisfied child.It is impossible to feel for Sandy or have any type of sympathy for this character at all.
In Sandy's case, even if we are to realize that she is wrong, everyone who calls her wrong is more wrong and messed up than she is.
Yes, maybe that's how Blume wanted Sandy to come off.
But normally they are sectioned off as side characters, not as figures whom the audience must feel for.
I read this when I was 12-13 and the only thing I could remember was the motorcyclist who jacks-off in her back yard.
I was hoping reading it as an adult would resonate more than when I was a child.
Wifey was raised to believe that to be a good wife you had to: "Make his interests your interests.
A happy husband is the answer to a happy life."I know this was a different time, but can you imagine being taught this?This book was written in 1978 and I thought it would have more rebellion.
I thought Wifey would be busting out of the cage so to speak.
Like most of Blumes stuff it's completely character-focused rather than plot-filled.
Sandy is a likeable character and funny...I think I would read and enjoy ANY book Blume wrote because I just dig her style that much.
I have to be clear it wasn't a masterpiece like most of her younger stuff.Her husband is a nagging, controlling bore, although probably less than than her guilt-trip inducing mother and sister.
At first it seems like the book was a cute, funny horndog fest, but it became clear after awhile it showed how much emptiness was really inside the character.
I read this when I was in high school.
Masturbating on someone's lawn!
The book begins with a masked man in a cape riding a motorcycle into Wifey's backyard, tossing up his cape, and...well, tossing off, leaving his "stuff" on her manicured lawn.
During a sexual encounter, Wifey lays there and describes a " cock dancing inside me." She liked it.
I also seem to recall her masturbating while she was in traffic and giving head to someone, but that could be another book.
I don't mean to make it sound like it's all about sex.
It's a quick read.
Wifey looks at marriage, motherhood, and sex through the eyes of a sexually-frustrated housewife in the 1970s. Her husband is emotionally-absent, only does it missionary style, and just doesn't get it. "Wifey" spends much of her time day-dreaming about sleeping with other men and has a pretty explicit mind. I was shocked by the ending, and it actually made me cry which was very unexpected for a book like this. Overall, it's an interesting story about self-realization and relationships. The writing isn't brilliant, but it's good and it's a fast read.
Plot Summary: Sandy Pressman is the wife of Norman, a successful but dull businessman, has two children and after 12 years of marriage, is utterly bored with her 1970's New Jersey suburban housewife role.
Sandy starts to get confused about what she wants and then discovers evidence that maybe Norman has been having a long term affair.
I first read this book several years ago but recently read it again.
I found that the plot was boring, but I think that is the point.
There is a plot and a pretty good one at that, but it is slow getting to the point.
November 20 2013: Hmm after my first time reading a Judy Blume novel (in this case Summer Sisters) I had expected a lot of her cause that book was awesome.I am not so sure of this book.
I do not know when this and Summer Sisters was published, I thought these were older books, but boy does she love to talk about sex.
Later I read some other Harold Robbins book that I liked more.So yes i think I can say I still enjoy a good sex scene in my books ;) and Judy Blue is very capable of that.
Overall the novel is lightweight and superficial, and a far cry from the complexity of Erica Jong's 1973 ground-breaking "Fear of Flying." Sandy the 31-year-old protagonist is described by her husband as possessing half a brain, and sometimes it feels as if Wifey is written for a younger (than Sandy) audience, or for women who fit Sandy's IQ description.
Blume is trying to play both sides of the fence, delivering the goods to readers expecting a modicum of titillation, and at the same time avoiding the complexity of Jong's writings & other texts coming out of the women's lib movement during that decade.
Judy Blume's first book geared towards adults.
It's such a shame since I remember really liking her books as a child and recommending her to my own girls.I loathed every character in this book (who were poorly introduced by the way, and left me wondering if I missed something "Who ARE these people?").
Slap us in the face as if to say "Hey look, this is NOT a kid's book"?According to the introduction by Blume the main character dumps the husband and goes on an adventure...
In all fairness, there was sort-of a humorous part and I'm hoping it gets much much better after chapter four (I just wasn't going waste my time in any case).
Judy Blume never disappoints & can be very filthy while doing so. Sandy is sexually repressed and very unhappy in her role as a wifey. But for someone as repressed as her she sure finds herself in some strange sexual encounters. I read this one in one sitting Christmas night. The book may not end how you want it to but I liked the message: That you don't necessarily need to be single in order to find yourself.
A reread from my teen years. I can't imagine reading this book as a teenager! A little out of my league! But I really enjoyed it this time around as well. I really enjoy reading steaming sexy stories. I look at the dog-eared paperback rack at the library often, but am too embarrassed to check one out. They just look too trashy. If anyone has any suggestions about books that are normal with trash sprinkled in.....send them my way!
Both my parents were readers (well, with my dad, it was more that he acquired books) and they never said much about what I read.
Neither suggesting nor un-suggesting, they just subscribed to magazines on my behalf, shelled out for Scholastic fliers, and took me to the library when I asked, and gave me a generous allowance that permitted me to purchase a fair number of paperbacks off drug store spinner racks.
My English teacher gave us a list of books we might read.
Anyway, one of the books on the list was Rabbit, Run which caught my eye, and so I went to the school library to look for it.
Her husband Norm is a successful dry cleaner and a prominent member of the local New Jersey social club.
However, Sandy hates the club and lessons so she finds other entertainment.
She fantasizes about her first love, Shep, as she doubts her decision to marry Norm.
She wanted to leave Norm and run away with Shep.
She returns home and jumbled through old letters of her husbands to his ex-girlfriend, in an attempt to find information to blame him for the STD she caught.
She finds old love letters she had written to her husband Norm.
I read this book, for the first time, when it came out in the late 70s.
I was in junior high school and loved all of Judy Blume's books aimed at kids my age.
One of the other mother's at school saw that I was reading it and made a comment to my mother, that it was inappropriate for someone my age to be reading "Wifey." My mother replied that if I could understand it, she thought it was ok for me to read it.At that time, this book was shocking, and shockingly sexual.
I read it again and again, in the way that adolescents do.
I read this for last book club.
I read it in a day and a half.
It was a quick read.
A quick smutty read.
But through all that smut was a fairly good story- one that exposed the hypocrisy of the "family values" era of the late 60's.
Throughout the story, I kept thinking of the narrator as older..
she was 32.The story is a bit frustrating because today's women can't understand a time that women lived just for their men and their children and had no other autonomy.
I felt that the narrator was having life happen to her- instead of becoming an active participant.
I liked Judy Blume books as a kid, but this, her "adult" novel, lacked any of the depth, characterization, or plot that I would expect from a book supposedly meant for grownups.
I revile the main character, who is shallow and dull, as is the characterization of her and all of the supporting characters.
I also revile the plot (or lack there-of).
I found myself hating the main character shortly into the book, and she didn't get any more sympathetic as I read.
I usually love to read all her books but I got bored reading Wifey maybe because the protagonist, Sandy has a very repetitive and boring life.
She married her husband at a young age and has two children but she starts to feel unsatisfied with her marriage and their sex life.
She starts having affairs with close friends but she does feel bad about cheating her husband.
When Norman found out that Sandy is having affair, he forgive her because he doesn’t want the family to break up and he loves Sandy but Sandy hesitates.
I remember my Mom telling me that I couldn't read this book (which was so tantalizing perched on a high shelf in our living room) until I was older, and now I see why!
I quite liked this book; as a young, unemployed (at the moment) wife, I can relate to the character's restlessness and confusion at her conflicting emotions, and I've always enjoyed reading intelligently written erotica (I read Anne Rice's Anne Rampling "Sleeping Beauty" series at far too young an age),so this book was a shoo-in for me.
It was racy, often sexy, and dealt with sex and Sandy's sexual frustration in ways that felt as taboo as the subjects broached in Blume's YA books did at the time when I read them.I thought the characters were well-developed; I felt like I got to know Sandy pretty well, and came to dislike Norman, quickly.
However, the characters were also multi-faceted, and my feelings about them changed several times throughout the book.I enjoyed it, and read it in less than 24 hours.
Did it change my life?
But I'm glad I read it.
Am I glad I borrowed it?
