https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/337116.The_Difference_Engine
STEAMPUNK SALAD3 (5-ounce) cans solid Victorian Era packed in water1/2 cup minced Bruce Sterling1/2 cup minced William Gibson1/4 cup Technological Speculation1 hard-boiled Spy Thriller, chopped in large pieces1 soft-boiled Detective Tale, finely minced3 Major Characters, lukewarm1 Mysterious Box of Computer Punch CardsSalt and Pepper1/2 teaspoon AmbitionSTEP 1Place Victorian Era in fine-mesh strainer and press dry with paper towels.
Fold in authors, Technological Speculation, Spy Thriller, and Detective Tale into Victorian Era and mix until bland and without individualistic flavor.STEP 2Stir 3 Major Characters and 1 Mysterious Box of Computer Punch Cards into mixture.
Each individual story doesn't quite stand on its own, and together, they do not elevate the book--there are too many spaces left unfilled--but they do coalesce into something more-or-less solid, something which we have experienced fully, and can walk away from having had our character arcs, and a very complete world.The writing is also mature and carefully-considered.

ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature.William Gibson and Bruce Sterling, two major SciFi powerhouses, joined forces to produce The Difference Engine, a classic steampunk novel which was nominated for the 1990 British Science Fiction Award, the 1991 Nebula Award for Best Novel, and the 1992 John W.
Several people are interested in the cards including Sybil, a courtesan who’s based on Benjamin Disraeli’s Sybil, mathematician Ada Lovelace (daughter of Lord Byron), a paleontologist nicknamed Leviathan Mallory, and the author Laurence Oliphant.
The Matrix-like ending will leave most people scratching their heads and wondering why they spent so many hours reading such inaccessible stuff.The Difference Engine is a smart and stylish concept novel that just doesn’t quite work.
I didn't imagine they were supposed to be ominous until the book told me they were.
The main ones were done well, but Lady Ada, who was only a passing fancy, was strongly drawn, where Captain Swing, who was supposed to be a menace, was a cartoonish charicature.
Whoa, the anticlimax that was the ending.
The Grand Napoleon is destroyed, and we learn it just in passing?This isn't a bad book; it's just one that puts more emphasis on mood and setting and gadgetry than on plot and characterization.
No, I mean women who sleep with a lot of men, without seeming to enjoy it at all, mostly for gain, and are looked down upon by the authors for doing it.We have one of the ostensible main characters, a whore named Sybil who inadvertantly starts off the plot by following the instructions of her new client and then promptly disappears, reappearing to have turned out to have been helped by another man by being married to a third man who died before she met him.
I think Sterling's style gave Gibson a grounding tug, so the whole ending chapter is about closure, something Gibson doesn't always work well with, but this one made me go back and forth to refresh character, and I had wikipedia open to read the biographies of the historical characters I didn't know.
This historical knowledge wasn't necessary to understand the story -I did most of the reading in ignorance, and it didn't deter from the storytelling- but knowing it gave a lot of details more depth, or made them ironic, or..
(Well, I assume the rest was crap, as I only read another 50 pages of pointless drivel before deciding not to waste any more of my precious time.) It was odd.
The first 50 pages formed a reasonably complete, self-contained, and satisfying short story.
It seems likely that the two stories were intended to intersect someplace down the line.
But the first portion--the satisfying complete story--appeared to be over.
And the other odd thing about this book is that the first portion was well written, while after that it just sucked balls--and not even big hairy ones, just boring and pointless ones.
I read most of it in airports and on planes and didn’t have the best circumstances to be able to concentrate on those details.
On the other hand, if it had been really riveting, I wouldn’t have noticed my surroundings, so I apparently didn’t find it all that compelling.I appreciated the re-structuring of British society, from being run by the blue-blooded to being administered by the scientific.
After a strong start, the weakness of the ending was a let down.Book number 269 in my Science Fiction and Fantasy Reading project.
This is based upon the idea that computers were invented much earlier in our history. How would that have changed things? This is a big absorbing read.
My favorite character at the time vanished with about forty pages left, and I didn't find the end compelling.I can't remember when I first read the book, but it was years ago.
Now that I'm older and have both read more and experienced more, I feel I got a lot more out of the book.
Had I realized it before, I probably would have been more impressed.When I first read the book, I found the ending confusing and unsatisfying.
To find the story of The Difference Engine, first dig through a layer of Victorian-Era British slang, followed by a layer of alternate-history jargon.
It's too bad the story isn't about ole' Ed digging up dinosaurs as he proves quite engaging on the subject for the few paragraphs where he gets to opine on his field of expertise.
Co-authors Gibson and Sterling claim they spent 7 years writing this novel.
Perhaps they should've spent more time editing each other than piling on literary dirt.
It hardly matters, we're talking about a 'Difference' without distinction.
And parts are really slow and some are plain boring.
The book is divided into five parts (iterations) and it takes place in a very dark XIX century London.
Everything that happens to the characters in this story somehow ends up connected to a wooden box full of punched Engine cards, but not the ones which are usually used (Every citizen has a number and a file on him/her).
Each have a part of the book which tells his of her story.
The description of the book says this is a part detective story, part historical thriller.
Did you read  Neuromancer  and say, "This was good, but it could have used more steampunk?" That's kind of how one might describe The Difference Engine: Neuromancer meets steampunk. It's not a comprehensive, completely accurate description, but if that's sufficient for you, you can stop reading now and go read the book.Still here? Cool.William Gibson is on my "I must read everything by him!" shelf, and his influence on literature, particularly science fiction and subgenres like cyberpunk and ste
Sometimes books like that still manage to earn five stars, but very often they receive only four: they left me with respect and a sense of awe, but they did not make me love them.I don't really want to discuss The Difference Engine as a steampunk novel.
Gibson and Sterling connect the lives of three protagonists, but they don't seem in any particular hurry to develop the plot, and the mystery that gets dangled in front of us at the beginning of the book receives a hasty, even token resolution at the very end.
This novel is the very definition of Steampunk, encompassing both of the concepts beautifully in a terrifying way.Gibson and Sterling (awesomeness) came together to compose a wonderfully intelligent read (I had to research many historical figures and events to make sense of the story and am still a bit muddled).
I must admit that Dr. Mallory is my favorite (his story gets a significantly larger amount of coverage in the novel); an adventurer scientist braving the wilds and natives of Wyoming finds the bones of a leviathan, a dinosaur.
I feel bad because I was supposed to read it for a book club but there are a few reasons it just wasn't for me.
I know many steampunk novels suffer this issue, even in such an early work as this, because people who are really into that kind of novel tend to love the geeky intricate details that build this alternative world.
"And here is where we will have sex!" Maybe the "lady of the night" character wasn't believable as who she was supposed to be.
When I read Neuromancer, I started out not understanding a thing that was going on, but finally made sense of everything by the end.
When reading The Difference Engine, I had the opposite experience.
The first segment was fully comprehensible, but afterward the book just turned to mush.
What in the world happened?
I got more and more irritated as I got closer to the end and had to suffer through an increasing number of pompous blowhards' points of view.
William Gibson is always a more difficult read for me, but this is the first time I felt let down.
Yuck yuck yuck. Bad action, bad dialogue, bad characters. The worst of all, though: the world was wonderfully designed, but the plot was so meaningless and boring. What a waste of a grand environment to set such a terrible story.Some collaborations combine the strengths of all involved into something extraordinary. Others magnify the weaknesses. This is a fine example of the latter.PS: the ending is the greatest WTF in modern history.
there is a lot in this book and if you don't have any sort of background in Industrialization or technology and mathematical histories, you might get a bit lost.
And if you can't stomach your history (alternate or no) un-whitewashed, then you'll not like that.
Especially when looking through Dr. Mallory's viewpoint (I also liked him quite a bit for strange reasons).
It's kind of humbling for me, as someone that sometimes cannot see the computer for the circuits, so to speak.Main reasons you should read this:- Alternate history is fun and you may learn something!
"The Difference Engine" ("DGE") was a real surprise after reading previously published books by both authors.
(I had probably only read "Islands in the Net" and the "Mirrorshades" collection by Mr. Sterling at this point.) I can't even tell you (and won't cheat and look up) if this book launched the "steampunk" genre (I suspect not), but even if it wasn't the first, this is a book to judge others by.Forget it's genre or even sub-genre: this is a great book.
It has excellent writing, plotting, characterization, and it brings a fresh and exciting look at an age and a set of dry historical facts that amazed me.
Read this book.
Well, the world-building is quite interesting, though apparently all the female characters in this alternate Steampunk England are whores or math geniuses, with the occasional murderess thrown in for good measure.
Every other social or political movement gets accelerated or represented but not the Suffragists, amazingly enough.
Apart from that, many of the secondary characters are way more interesting than the protagonist.
The plot is a ramble-fest through the world-building and requires a fair amount of suspension of disbelief.
All the villains are offstage with occasional nonsensical walk-ons; one manages to go from being a racetrack roughneck to the equivalent of Prof.
The first computer I actually owned, not long after that, was a Commodore 64, with a cassette tape drive for storage—you could hear programs as they loaded—but that fast and versatile system's gone now too, gone as silent as the data being transferred to and from the solid-state devices which have since supplanted almost all of the bulky, clattering electromechanical equipment I first knew.That personal history is one reason why The Difference Engine still really resonates with me—its massive 19th-Century information infrastructure is a lot noisier, more sheerly physical, than what we've grown used to:Behind the glass loomed a vast hall of towering Engines—so many that at first Mallory thought the walls must surely be lined with mirrors, like a fancy ballroom.
And sadly, we only briefly meet Ada Byron, the Queen of Engines.
The ideas seem so plausible.I read the 20th anniversary edition, which includes an interview with Gibson and Sterling.
(view spoiler)[The narrator of the whole book is an Engine itself.
(hide spoiler)] I really wish I had known this before starting the book.The second revelation in the Gibson and Sterling commentary relates to the the first one above, but isn't a spoiler.
Their idea was that their computers become a Third Person in the collaboration.
Like the giant Engines in their alternate world.
The Difference Engine explores a world in which Charles Babbage built a practical mechanical computer in the mid-19th century.
It is stimulating to have one's intelligence overestimated by such brilliant writers." -- the Times of London.The Difference Engine is less a novel than a series of interconnected stories and vignettes -- a combination that worked well for me, but has irritated others.
And marginally-reliable at best -- Babbage failed partly because his Difference Engine required technology beyond the capabilities of the time.
In any case, the mid-nineteenth century may not have been ripe for an Information Revolution -- maybe it wasn't yet "steam-engine time"?
In London of 1855, Lord Babbage's steam-driven Engines (mechanical computers roughly comparable to Univac) have transformed the world, blueprints thanks to Victorian paradigms of science and order.
Behind the mask of progress, 20th-century crises brew: Babbage Engines and Citizen Numbers are creating a police state; the pollution of a hyper-accelerated industrial revolution makes London sporadically unlivable; political propaganda is deconstructionist.
Gould's Wonderful Life, and thus the random nature of life); mainstream readers will see brilliant extrapolation (the kinotrope is a new art form, motion pictures by way of programmed arrays of changing, clacking tiles), clever details (Disraeli's a Grub Street hack; Shelley's a Luddite exiled to Elba; hackers are called "clackers") and an adequate cops-and-robbers plot, and miss the point completely
This book actually rivals American Psycho in its obsessive cataloguing of superficiality, although the unhealthy mental state it's illustrating could only be that of the authors.Speaking of: the prose of William Gibson and Bruce Sterling mesh like sushi and oatmeal.
Gibson's prose is usually the more beautiful, esoteric & imaginative; I'm blaming Sterling for the endless litany of Rad-Victorian hallways, alleys and odors.But my main beef is: despite all this style and research and impressive, alternately interesting and tedious alt-history imaginings, there's a real shortage of plot.
They seem very pleased to wallow in their thickly upholstered alternative history, reciting their Victorian cyberslang & admiring their hand-tooled brass card punches.
During the late 80-ties, Steam punk disconnected from Cyberpunk to become a separate genre.About the book: Although I credit both writers for their very good (other) books, this book as a result from their cooperation was a dragging experience to read.
The writers were not able to let the main characters develop during the progress of the story.
This resulted in a collection of shallow personages not able to convince and fascinate the intended reader.So for me a ambivalent feeling finishing this book: On one hand wanting to know more about the world Sterling an Gibson were able to describe and on the other hand very glad to be rid of the shallow characters, erratic story changes, and a seemingly going nowhere plot.
In the world of this book, England is one of the world's greatest Superpowers (it has created and perfected the world's largest and most powerful super-computer) along with France, as the North American continent is a hotbed of unrest and constant warring between the separate countries of the American Union, the Confederacy, Texas, and California.
I'm not a total Luddite (and I'm sure Sterling and Gibson aren't either), but their depiction of a world that appears to be falling apart at the seams (thanks in no small way to a technology that was probably intended to make life easier and better) is frighteningly prophetic.
First things first: I found this book in the Young Adult section of my local library.
I'd like to have a chat with the library about reclassifying it.
It is complex, broad, detailed, sometimes a little slow.
Not a light read at all, and while it was a good book in many ways, I kept reading and waiting for "something" to happen that never quite did.
I'm glad that I read it, but I don't think I would read it again, and there are few people I know to whom I would recommend the book.
I was really excited for this book but came away somewhat disappointed. It becomes bogged down in its own delivery, in the world, and ideas. It’s difficult to find any true momentum and about two thirds in I found my mind wandering. I couldn’t believe it. I was actually bored. I slogged through the rest and as a reward achieved no sense of resolution. So on the one hand, as a concept it succeeds. As a novel though, I don’t think it does.
