https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/315578.Auschwitz
For Romanian born Sonderkommando Physician Miklós Nyiszli, every second spent working under the watchful eye of S.S. Dr. Josef Mengele was sacred, death could have been waiting for him at any given time.
Nyiszli lived and breathed the stale air, surrounded by the ghosts of the dead and the men of the Sonderkommando throughout his time in Auschwitz.
It's all about what his eyes witness, not the mind, his own thoughts are second nature, although his wife and daughter remain close in his heart, he had little time to dwell on the chimneys of doom, or the screams of the many, having become so use to them.
Unfortunately, it seems to me that Holocaust memoirs can at this distance in space and time become something they were not meant to be, something disreputable, something akin to the torture porn of modern horror movies like Saw or Hostel. If you read a number of these memoirs you get to be a connoisseur of atrocities. When you find yourself being able to explain why Mauthausen was worse than Dachau, and how Treblinka and Chelmno differed from Stutthof and who Irma Grese was, and you are not yourself a professional historian, it may be that you should stop reading them.
I am writing this review not to comment on the story itself, but in response to some of the criticisms I have read about the book.
I sometimes found the descriptions of the layout of the camp in the book confusing, but I believe they made sense with Dr. Nyiszli's recollection of Auschwitz-Birkenau when he was there.
That being said, whatever the doctor did certainly saved his life, and shocking readers with more details of gruesome medical experiments would have people shun the rest of the story.
If that happened, it may also explain some of the disconnectedness some readers felt about this book.Overall, I think this was a VERY worthwhile read.
As a result, an attempt to rate the book on its literary value is not only a useless exercise but also a disrespectful one.Dr. Nyiszli's account portrays the terrible crimes and the injustice meted out to the Jews in the name of racial purification.
Reading this book does give the reader a glimpse, even though a small one, of a time when torture and killing en masse was commonplace.
There is no doubt that the Holocaust was one of the darkest periods in history and Dr. Nyiszli reveals from his unique perspective the tale of a populace who had to suffer tragedies of unimaginable proportions to suit the whims and fancies of a delusional and troubled animal they once called the Fuhrer.
When you know the facts, that people were tortured to death by Mengele by cutting out body parts without anesthesia, or slowly killing victims with electrical shocks, or freezing them in ice water, it's odd that none of this came out in this book, as if Nyiszli downplayed many of the horrors that he must have not only encountered but for which had been involved.Although this was a good read, the story is told by someone with special privilege, even though he was a Jew in a place where every other Jew was starved, beaten, tortured or gassed to death.
Despite the incredibly difficult subject matter, this book was a surprisingly fast read.
Equally horrifying and compelling, both my roommate and I read it cover to cover within 24 hours.
Nyiszli's story is remarkable, as a man who survived certain death by systematically aiding in the killing of his own people, bringing into question the true cost of survival.
His narrative is invaluable, as it preserves a virtually clinical dictation of what truly transpired from within the ranks.
This preservation undermines the Nazi aim of concealment, exposing every last inhumane and evil act committed by the regime and the author himself.
I've read many books about the holocaust, but this is the first personal account of life directly within a death camp that I've read.
I'm sure there was much omitted from Dr. Nyiszli's account, but this book gives the reader a fairly good idea of just how demented members of the Third Reich were.2.
First off, Nyiszli states right off that he is writing as a doctor and not for literary acclaim.
I do not think I would have been able read the book in its entirety had it contained more emotion.3.
I thought that it was a book worth reading - one that made you think and ask questions.
My uncle reccommeded this book to me because my grandfather liberated this camp when he was in the war. At the end of this book it tells about how a US light tank comes in to set them all free and my grandpa was in that tank. For years I have heard throught the family about that day so for me this was a great book with lots of insight so I was able to make the connection between what was happening in the camps up to the point of where my grandfathers stories start.
Auschwitz: A Doctor's Eyewitness Account by Miklós NyiszliMy Rating: I find myself incapable of rating this testimony of the excruciating horrors inflicted by human beings on fellow human beings and I decided to only write my thoughts rather than a reviewDr. Miklós Nyiszli has categorically specified that this is not meant to be a literary piece (although the account must be the bravest non-fiction so far – if it is to be seen only through a reader’s point of view - coming from an eye-witness who was present on the camp for 12 laborious months) but it is only meant to be a first-hand testimony for the world to know what happened to their fellow human beings behind those hard-wearing camps in Auschwitz.He was appointed as one of the infamous Sonderkommando, prisoners who worked for the German forces to aid with the disposal of gas chamber victims or to aid with other work related to extermination of the millions of innocents who came to the Auschwitz whose life span is not more than a meager 4 months themselves.
The people in this book, those who can't tell their stories, need to have their story told.
Five stars for the courage to tell the story.
The author tells his story in an unemotional way.
As I read his account I began to understand that when one is surrounded by these atrocities and witnesses them, when one's own life hangs on a whim of another, that one would/could distance oneself from that immediate horror and emotion would slip into one's interior space.
I'm glad that people such as Miklos Nylszli had the courage to tell the story of those who can't do so.
Miklós Nyiszli was one of the prisoners of Auschwitz, but in the selection process, when he revealed he was a doctor, he was chosen as doctor Mengele’s assistent.The book, as all holocaust biographies, is an important account of a horrible time.
I would have liked more thoughts and feelings about his family, but the book is somewhat matter-of-factly written.
Anyway, I'm very grateful for having the opportunity to read the book, and get an insight into the author's experiences.In fact, the not very emotional style has an advantage.
it concerns the eyewitness account of a Hungarian Jewish doctor who was able to survive in Auschwitz by using his skills to assist the German doctors there, led by Josef Mengele, the notorious "Angel of death." he tells how the doctors would wait for the arrivals, and choose whether they would live or die-right-life by labour, left-immediate death in the gas chambers.
In order to justify to himself what he is doing, he decides to do everything he can to survive and tell the world what happened.Most methods of extermination have been discussed many times, but I found one used on the Sommerkommando group near the end of the war to be one of the most horrific I have ever read, and new to me.
The book was an amazingly smooth and fast read especially considering the topic and I found his style of emotional detachment in his writing easier for me to take those facts in as a whole.
Where normally a book with this sensitive topic I would need to take breaks from my readings to process and to deal with the feelings of depression and heaviness, this book portrayed the facts in a way that made it easier to move through the book at a faster rate.
If I could propose a review in images only, they would be the following:-shocked gaze of a brown eye-faces, bleak with despair-clouds of black smoke-a flash of stainless steel-shimmer of gold on bone -orange flames streaming from chimneysI read this account because I had studied bits of the holocaust in University, and having recently read Those who save Us, I found that my memories of what we had learned and discussed 10 years ago had faded.It was one thing to shock those memories back to life; but quite another thing to read a first hand account.
But I suppose, having been written in a logical, no nonsense fashion by a doctor, the abrupt ending made sense.
No words could do this first hand account near justice. 'Auschwitz' was an amazing, true tale of a WWII camp hellbent on liquidation then using their victims for scientific exploration purposes. Written by Dr. Mengele's right-hand-man of a coroner, Dr. Miklós writes from the heart what he witnessed in this man-made hell.
I really felt that this was an important book to read.
I guess I wanted the author to make me feel something, but too often felt this was a clinical study and for that I was ever so sad.The atrocities that were done somehow seem a work of fiction.
I wanted to feel that emotion, feel that the author had tried to bring emotion to his writing, but no, I felt so deprived of feelings reading it.
This is one hell of a book...its a true eyewitness account of "DR MIKLOS NYISZLI" who was himself a prisoner , but a prisoner physician of "AUSCHWITZ CONCENTRATION CAMPS " during HITLER NAZI REGIME...This is a beautiful book describing the HOLOCAUST HORRORS faced and experienced by JEWS in Germany and other parts of EUROPE from the eyes of this doctor himself...This book gave me chills and creeps throughout the book. It's beyond my imagination just to think what horrible things this doctor was made to do.
Yet another insight into Auschwitz. This time by a Jewish doctor who worked directly under Mengele. Survival is a human instinct.Immoral, amoral, who is to judge?
At some points in the story I felt like I had to be reading fiction because there is no way that one group of people could do this to another without the opressed group fighting back.
There were so many of them that had they all gotten together and staged a revolt at some point I don't think the SS guards could have put down the revolt.I don't believe I've ever felt such pure unabashed hatred for someone than I felt about Mengele and Hitler while reading this book.
How can people believe that the Holocaust was made up when they read something like this.
I am FAR (imagine sixty billion miles away and then triple it and then double it and then quadruple that) from being knowledgeable on this time period and have only read a handful of books (fiction and non-fiction combined) about it.
They were composed of prisoners, usually Jews, who were forced, on threat of their own deaths, to aid with the disposal of gas chamber victims during the Holocaust.I imagine there would be criticism for these prisoners for "aiding" the Nazis, but I was far from criticizing the author.
The odd thing is that sometimes it's not very hard and there doesn't seem to be any obvious rhyme or reason to this.
I'm having a hard time with this one.
And the time he spent in that "special" role was quite different than what the masses were dealing with as basic prisoners.
On the flip side - before liberation Nyiszli did in fact spend some time as a "common prisoner" so he was one of the few to see both sides of prisoner life in the camp.
I'm of the opinion that this is a very important thing myself.
This is a factual retelling of something that is beyond gruesome, and even if we went so far as to call it a "plot", rating history is a ridiculous concept.So I'll leave this one unrated and say only that despite everything, this is something people must read, and I urge everybody to find the fortitude to do it.Honestly, what I read in the foreword really struck home.
And even though he was already reconciled with his death, in the end he wrote books, hoping all the time that people will read and listen and someday know what happened.It is gruesome and hard to imagine.
Holocaust deniers use Nyiszli's account to poke holes in his story and bolster their claims while others criticize the coldness with which he relates his experience.
If, as the deniers say, there are indeed some inconstistencies between the historical record and minute details of Nyiszli's account, I believe they unimportant to the human aspect of the story and the greater picture.
It was so callous and awful and framed my reading of the first half of the book until I decided to just dispose of it in my mind and not relate it to the experience at all.
I have read several books relating to the holocaust mostly because it is a period of history that so many wish to forget about.
Unlike other holocaust memoirs I’ve read, the tone of this book was detached, which bothered me immensely.
Maybe the only way to tell this story is through detachment.
Maybe he felt that was the best way to tell it.
I don’t have answers.What I do know is that these kinds of stories need to be told and I’m thankful that Dr. Nyiszli had the courage to tell it.
This account is provided by a Jew that was forced to help the Germans with their medical experiments they preformed on the prisoners.
The most intriguing part of this book is the way that you feel about the author as you read.
It is hard to feel sorry for someone who is helping the Germans exterminate his own people.
After reading the book it is hard not to have a pretty strong opinion about the author which is what I feel makes this book great.
Basically it offers the facts and experience of the doctor including a first hand account of the only rebellion of the Sonderkommando,( prisoners working in the gas chambers who were killed every 4 months.).As the only prisoner who witnessed the gas chambers so closely and survived this is an important document and it was a fascinating, shocking and interesting read.
Except for that it is an amazing story of survival.
Dr Nyiszli managed to save himself and his wife and daughter using his expertise and the fact that he was so important to Mengele.
4.5 Stars!!As expected, this book was heart wrenching and disturbing.
Although the book did describe some of his work (which I'm sure would have been more greatly appreciated by someone who knows about the subject) was explained effectively, but the main storyline based on his life was riveting.The characters who obviously are based on real people were described in such a way that, especially in the case of Dr. Mengele, you could feel like you had met him.
"What's wrong?" he said coldly, "Getting sentimental?"The only reason this book did not get 5 stars from me was the afterword.

It was very difficult for me to rate this because I did not enjoy it at all, in any way, at any time.
However, it was a powerful story that deserves to be told and repeated.
It was raw and honest and horrific.If you have a weak stomach, do not read this.
I have read and seen many accounts of the Holocaust, in the form of memoirs, biographies, journals, documentaries, and photos.
In particular, the descriptions of the autopsies on twins, the constant mass killings, and - the worst for me - the story of the 16 year old girl who survived the gas chamber, albeit only briefly.
This war memoir of a doctor forced to work at Auschwitz with Dr. Mengele and the SS is one of the worst things to read, sanitized as it is. If it was not, this would be impossible to get through. It is an essential read, if you can bear it. Take care in reading it. This story leaves scars on your thinking.
