https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78629.Tortured_for_Christ
That book has helped me believe that the story of Christ in the gospel is real and not false as Islam claims.
The sufferings of God's saints has confirmed to me that Christ really suffered before.
He is the Lamb of God that was slain before the foundation of the world, and he is today slain the sufferings of His saints who joyfully count it worthy to suffer shame for his name's sake and say with the blessed Paul, With Christ I have been crucified, no longer do I live but Christ lives in me.
This book is a really big eye opener!
Also, though Richard Wurmbrand went through so many dark times in dark places, to hear how he loves his persecuters is absolutely amazing and I have seen better Christ's compassion through this book.
Love the sinner and hate the sin is one of those Bible verses that can slip my mind when I feel like someone has wronged me or when I hear of people doing terrible things and misrepresenting, but I have been blessed to read this book and it makes me want to help those Christians suffering in other countries for their faith!
IF you read this book, find and older copy like pre-1980s version because the ministry selling this book "softened" a bunch of things and you'll miss the author's own words.
This is a book every follower of Christ must read.
Wurmbrand, though a bit high on his experiences, gives us a picture of what we need to be, "non-belonging" coexistives in a world that is VERY evil.
In the west we don't see this evil and we feel included to set back and enjoy the ride.
Wurmbrand's book is invaluable in that it calls into question the church of the west's relaxed, slumbering attitudes.
It also gives us a picture of what we might face.
Excellent read.I got Tortured For Christ for Free from The Voice of the Martyrs website: https://secure.persecution.com/refera...
order yours if you want.As I got this book I said why not get into the story and read it.
This book should be required reading for all students.
The human heart is capable of such evil and such good.
I would recommend Tortured For Christ to all believers, even nonbelievers, who may have a change of heart after they've read this story.
The book puts suffering for Christ into perspective and gives a call to action on helping persecuted Christians around the world.
The things he experienced are happening around the world and the underground church does need help.To those that don't believe the content of the book (which I also read in some reviews.) I can understand the skepticism due to various Christian Biographical books being removed from sale due to the "made-up" stories.
Ultimately only God knows his heart but we can all be challenged by his story and encouraged to get more involved in helping those suffering persecution in any way that we can.I would encourage adult Christians to read this book.
This book isn't supposed to be a classic novel.
This is real life and for somebody who spent years being tortured in a prison camp and who didn't speak English as a first language, I'm aghast that people are complaining about the writing style.
This is one of the most powerful books I have ever read.
Our policies support or install the dictators who torture people for their faith.
This is a very emotional, moving book that is a must read for anybody who is a Christian or thinks Communism is a good idea.
الكتاب رائع بكل معانى الكلمة لن كلمات توصفه او تعبر عنه الا انه محمل برائحة الالم الصادقة التى تقطر 
This book is amazing!!
Ever since I have read this I have a on fire passion for these people who go through so much.
AFTER the Bible this is the book that has changed my life!!
I feel so blessed to live where I live and have the freedom to worship my God. I read this in 2005, 2007, & now with my hubby in 2015!!
Life changing book every time I read it.
We are praying who we should pass it on to.
Looking forward to seeing what God wants us to do.
On the inspiration and challenge it proved to be for my life?
I can't say I enjoyed reading it, but it was very encouraging, and challenging.
It shook me out of the comfortable little world I live in.
Opened my eyes to the reality of what many Christians face, have faced and will continue to face until the Lord returns to rule the world.
Am I willing to suffer as Mr. Wurmbrand did?
Do I fear men, or God?
Am I willing to do all I can now to make a difference, through the power of God, in the community I live in?
POWERFUL book.

Richard, in his simple writing style unadorned with trimmings, revealed a love I've not observed since the story of Jesus.
The degree of suffering these men and women, fellow followers of Christ, suffered for "crimes" such as spreading gospel tracts or telling their children about God, is nearly beyond understanding.
In spite of watching their children being literally whipped to death before their eyes, being fed endless amounts of salt without water until death, or being abducted and raped on their very wedding day, these lovers of Jesus remained lovers of those who hurt them, turning countless numbers of them to the love of Christ.
Wow.What a book.This book rendered my thoughts speechless multiple times as I was brought to consider how much Christians suffered for the sake of Christ under the Soviet Union and yet how much their joy and hope abounded throughout these dark times.
They were all ready and willing to suffer for the sake of Christ if by doing so they could win others to him.
All they needed from us were the resources and Bibles to use in order to win more to him.The faith and determination of Wurmbrand and these other believers impressed upon me again the all-worthiness and all-sufficiency of Christ.
Not the best writing and disappointing from the standpoint that Wurmbrand unnecessarily refers to his fellow Catholic Christians as 'papists', and yet even so there is no denying his own suffering, devotion to Romanian Christians, the cause of Christianity worldwide and even the Communists who tortured him. Well worth reading.
هذا ما يذكرني أنه فيما أحاطت جيوش محمد الثاني بمدينة القسطنطينية عام 1493، وكان على البلقانيين أن يقرروا لأجيال قادمة فيما إذا كانوا سيبقون تحت حكم المسيحين أم المسلمين، بحثت لجنة كنيسة محلية في مدينة محاصرة بجيوش الأعداء المشاكل التالية: (لون عيني القديسة العذراء مريم!)، (نوعية جنس الملائكة!)، (ماذا يحدث إن سقطت ذبابة ما في الماء المقدس، أتتقدس الذبابة أم يتنجس الماء؟!)هذه كانت من نوعية فتاوينا منذ زمن قريب!، كانوا في عالمٍ آخر بعيدًا عنا!..توجد في الكتاب الكثير من المواقف الثابتة والملهمة في الصمود والمحافظة على العقيدة رغم شدة المكابدة، ومواقف جدالية جيدة تثبت وجود العالم الآخر والحياة بعد الموت، ووجود الله، كل هذا في معارض الرد أمام الشيوعيين.ويختم بالكتاب بدعوة الغرب إلى إرسال الكتب المقدسة والكتيبات المسيحية إلى الدول الشيوعية، والتبرع لإعانة العائلات المنكوبة التي استشهد عائلها لأجل المسيح أو التي أفرج البوليس عن عائلها بعد أن جردته من جميع أملاكه ليبدأ مرةً أخرى من الصفر دون إعانة من الدولة على الإطلاق، ويكرر أن شوق الناس هناك إلى مجرد وجود الكتب المقدسة شديد جدًا، فيقول ..
He gave his heart to the Russians -- his fellow-prisoners and his captors -- and tried to bring them all to the knowledge of Christ, the knowledge that brings eternal life and bliss.Tortured for Christ was a harrowing, uplifting and deeply challenging book.
Wurmbrand could hardly walk a street without stopping someone to share with them the life-changing news of Jesus, even though doing so could (and did!) lead to his imprisonment.
You don't need to be a missionary abroad to live for Jesus; you don't need to be imprisoned and tortured like Richard Wurmbrand.
All the same, it is a powerful testament to the power of the Gospel and reveals the fact that persecution of the church continues on even to this day in the world.
This book also serves as a testament on as to what happens when someone TRULY believes in the Gospel, and gives their lives over to the COMPLETE Lordship of Jesus Christ, and the fact that the only reason why pastors and preachers and Western Christians say that change within Christians is a slow, gradual process is because we've allowed people to believe that they don't have to give over everything of themselves to God. We've allowed people to believe a watered down Gospel.
This is the story of Rev. Richard Wurmbrand, imprisoned for 14 years, by ruthless atheists in a repressive socialist state.
It's more than just his story, but the story of many Christians who suffered terribly for their faith in Jesus Christ behind the Iron Curtain.
I found it had me wondering about how the strength of the faith of us in the Free World compares with that of Christians who have suffered terribly under socialist and Islamist regimes.
As uncomfortable as it all is though, I don't want to go back to my ignorance of these things...blissfully living my self-absorbed, comfy life in Christ while around the world Christians are still suffering & dying for their faith.
Christian persecution did not dissipate with the fall of the Iron Curtain.
Yet despite the fact it has persisted and accelerated, the persecution of Christians remains the great untold human rights story of this era." I now realize that, just because its not front page news, everything I had just read is still going on in earnest.
This is an incredibly influential, moving book.
Richard Wurmbrand endured 14 years of unspeakable tortures in Communist prisons simply because of his love and outspokenness for Christ.Though it is small, I cannot call this book an "easy" read due to the atrocities mentioned in it.
It's a grotesque book, yet also one of the most beautiful books I've read; beautiful because of these tortured Christians' pure, unfaltering love of Christ.
Reading the problems these people had on an every day basis certainly put my own insignificant problems in perspective.
Overall, this book brought me closer to God and I would highly recommend it to anyone.
I was deeply convicted reading what others have suffered for Jesus Christ, their attitude towards their torturers, and their unwavering love for God through it all.That being said, I have somewhat against this book.
The Dark Ages were the Dark Ages for this very reason; the popes made it so and not a single pope during or since has ever apologized for it.This book is titled "TORTURED FOR CHRIST" and both its title and contents speak of Christians suffering.
The Christians during the Popes Inquisition suffered and died at the hands of those claiming to have God on their side.Believe me, I wanted to love this book; the whole book.
Under conditions which would (and have) broken men for life, Pastor Wurmbrand recounts how the love of Christ and the Word of God shone more brightly, the darker their situation got.
It's hard for me to think of a more powerful witness to the truth of the Gospel than to read about the love which Wurmbrand and others bear for their tormentors.
This unnatural love is simply impossible for the natural man.I knew about the Underground Church before reading this book, but it is heartening to hear stories about how it began and flourished under the Communists in Romania.
He gives examples of tortured people who have a joy that no person except themselves can truly understand.
The people of the Underground Church have an immense love for the captors and those who've treated them cruelly.
Bro. Wurmbrand shows the need for Christians in America to pray for people being persecuted, tortured, killed, and any combination of the three.
It is amazing how much these Christians can do with just one Bible.
Thanks, Bro Wurmbrand, for showing our churches just how bad things can get in a country without the freedom of religion.
Although this book speaks of the struggles and triumphs of the Underground Church under Soviet Communism in the 40s, 50s, and 60s, the sufferings of Christians in persecuted lands continues today.
His ability to share with us today what the true church of Christ had to endure in the 20th century is riveting and so important to read, learn about, remember, and pass on to the next generation of those who would follow Jesus Christ.
I recommend this book highly and you can get a free copy of it online through "Voice of the Martyrs".
It is a quick read, but one that you will not forget quickly.
صلاة" ياالله يالك من شخص طيب لو كنت انا انت وانت انا لما كنت غفرت لك خطاياك ولكنك حقاً شخص طيب وانا احبك من قلبي " اعتقد ان جميع الملائكة قد اوقفوا ما يفعلونه. لكي يستمعوا الي تلك الصلاة الصاعدة من الضابط الروسي ١٤
One of my favorite books. What a brave man!
You can sense the passion Richard had to open the eyes of the Christians in the West to the realities of how evil Communism is and what Christians endure under its power and other brainwashing systems like it.
But what I love most about Richard’s testimony is the genuine love he had for the ones who turned him in, and the ones who tortured him for His faith.
How sincere is our faith?
Would we stand and look death in the eye with joy, face torture with courage like none other for Jesus’ sake?
So timely! I’m looking forward to seeing the movie tomorrow evening, showing across the country, base on this man’s testimony. An unbelievable but true firsthand account of the atrocities done to believers in communist countries during WW2 and beyond, just for sharing their faith and the joy they have in following Christ. And the persecution continues in many areas around the world. We have it easy. I’m ashamed. They count it an honor to partake in their Savior’s sufferings. Imagine. I can’t. But I should. . .
This is an eye-opening incredible story of Richard and other Christians who faced persecution, torture, and murder all for the sake of Christ. As my childhood pastor would say "If this don't light your fire, your wood's wet". This has reinvigorated my relationship to God and pushed me to live more boldly for Christ.Warning: If you don't already hate communism, you will at the end of this book.
