https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/669450.The_Kingdom_of_This_World
fulfilling book riot's 2018 read harder challenge task #9: A book of colonial or postcolonial literatureextry points given to me, by me, for choosing a book that i have owned for more than a year. WAY more than a year.review to come!
Lewdness and avarice rule the world… And those in thrall, who once were raped and robbed, want freedom in order to be free to rape and rob…After bathing their arms in the blood of the white man, the Negroes ran toward the big house, shouting death to the master, to the Governor, to God, and to all the Frenchmen in the world.
My plan for the month is to read everything he's written. I bought this five hours ago and have read it twice.
En el extraordinario prólogo –el cual además abre la puerta de la corriente de realismo mágico– Carpentier nos habla de las maravillas que descubrió en su primer viaje a Saint-Domingue (actual Haití), en un pasado delirante que continuaba vivo si bien en ruinas y de los esfuerzos desesperanzados de tantos europeos que por siglos habían querido construir mundos fantásticos desde una racionalidad que los aplastaba.
Violent slave uprisings, the reign of the first black king of Haiti, the perverse twilight of European decadence, and the pervasive role of voodoo - all recounted in a lush and sensory prose style that was clearly the inspiration for Gabriel Garcia Marquez's own sentences. Written in 1949, "The Kingdom of this World" is also the precursor of the Latin American literary boom in general. A book about animism, it's narrated from the inside-out, skipping between consciousnesses and spanning years without much concern for traditional narrative conventions. A potent novella that offers a heady draught of uncut magick.
a brilliant and tragic novella about the Haitian liberation from French rule and the government which follows as seen through the eyes of Ti-Noel, a slave. along with mariano azuela's the underdogs i cannot think of a book that more effectively illustrates the final words of orwell's animal farm:"No question now, what had happened to the faces of the pigs. The creatures outside looked from pig to man, and from man to pig, and from pig to man again; but already it was impossible to say which was which."
কিছু কিছু বই আছে - পাঠকের অতীতের সমসত পড়াকে মুহূরতের জনযে হলেও মলান করে দেয়, বানের জোয়ারের মত ভাসিয়ে নিয়ে যায়, "সাহিতয" বলতে আজ পরযনত যা কিছু বুঝে এসেছি সেই সমসত ধারণা উড়িয়ে দিয়ে গুঁড়িয়ে দিয়ে সাহিতযের পরকৃত সমভাবনা সমপরকে একটি আভাস দিয়ে চলে যায়। চকিতের সেই সপরশ - কিনতু অভাগা পাঠকের সুখশানতি চিরতরে নষট করে দেবার জনযে ততটুকুই বোধহয় যথেষট। আরেকটিবার সেই ছোঁয়া পাবার জনযে হনযে হয়ে খুঁজতে পারি বাকি জীবন - কিনতু অধরা সবপনের মতোই, ঈপসিতা নারীর মতোই সেই অনুভূতি ধরাছোঁয়ার বাইরে থেকে যায়। মহাকালের হাতছানির
While he was bathing her, Pauline took a perverse pleasure in grazing his flanks with her body under the water, for she knew that he was continually tortured by desire, and that he was always watching her out of the tail of his eye with the false meekness of a dog well-lessoned by the lash."*"Now he understood that a man never knows for whom he suffers and hopes.
For this reason, bowed down by suffering and duties, beautiful in the midst of his misery, capable of loving in the face of afflictions and trials, man finds his greatness, his fullest measure, only in the Kingdom of this World."
In prose of often dreamlike coloration and intensity, Alejo Carpentier records the destruction of the black regime—built on the same corruption and contempt for human life that brought down the French while embodying the same hollow grandeur of false elegance, attained only through slave labor—in an orgy of voodoo, race hatred, madness, and erotomania."The events described in the blurb in fact constitute only one of the novel's four parts, extending through pp.107-56.
So the mad black king, preening himself in the 'falsely' elegant clothes of his erstwhile white masters, with his "orgy of voodoo, race hatred, madness, and erotomania" is, for all its power as a vile stereotype, only a quarter of the novel.
O Reino Deste Mundo - narrado no estilo realismo mágico, característico de Alejo Carpentier - é a história da revolução Haitiana e do seu mítico líder Mackandal, morto na fogueira em 1758. Alguns comentários sobre esta novela e o seu autor:Mário Vargas Llosa"uma das mais acabadas que a língua espanhola já produziu.;Le Figaro Littéraire"O melhor romance que apareceu na América Latina dos nossos tempos.";O Editor"Carpentier alcança o ser humano de forma única. A sua obra é insubstituível e incomparável."No que estes comentários dirão sobre mim, pensarei mais tarde...
Este es uno de los más claros ejemplos de que hay que dar una oportunidad a los libros. Una vez superada la sensación de extrañeza, es una gran lectura
Of legends and lore, superstitions, magical powers, numbing brutality, sex, alien names and places.And a typo, towards the end, right there at the novel's most dramatic passages:"Now he understood that a man never knows for whom he suffers and hopes.
For this reason, bowed down by suffering and duties, beautiful in the midst of his misery, capable of loving in the face of afflictions and trials, man finds his greatness, his fullest measure, only in the KINGDOF of This World."KINGDOF it was, believe it or not (FSG Classics, 2006 paperback edition).
برای من شنیدن اسم آلخو کارپانتیه همیشه با نوعی احساس ترس هیجان انگیز همراه بوده.در قلمرو این عالم تاریخ افسانهای هائیتی با سبک رئالیسم جادویی روایت میشود.گابریل گارسیا مارکز پیشگفتار این رمان را نخستین متن نظری دربارهی رئالیسم جادویی میداند.و من هنوز نمیدانم چرا با رئالیسم جادویی ارتباط برقرار نمیکنم و یا اصلا روزی این ارتباط برقرار میشود یا نه.با این حال از خواندن کتاب لذت بردم و امیدوارم روزي کتاب دیگر کارپانتیه یعنی "گام های گمشده"را بخوانم
برای من شنیدن اسم آلخو کارپانتیه همیشه با نوعی احساس ترس هیجان انگیز همراه بوده.در قلمرو این عالم تاریخ افسانه‌ای هائیتی با سبک رئالیسم جادویی روایت می‌شود.گابریل گارسیا مارکز پیشگفتار این رمان را نخستین متن نظری درباره‌ی رئالیسم جادویی می‌داند.و من هنوز نمی‌دانم چرا با رئالیسم جادویی ارتباط برقرار نمی‌کنم و یا اصلا روزی این ارتباط برقرار می‌شود یا نه.با این حال از خواندن کتاب لذت بردم و امیدوارم روزي کتاب دیگر کارپانتیه یعنی "گام های گمشده"را بخوانم
For a "literature and politics" class.
The story of Haiti, in Carpentier's eyes, seems to match up with that rather grim proclamation.
They say this is one of the forerunner of magical realism, and it's not hard to see why.
Honestly, it's hard to put down and even harder to describe, take stock in.
I have to read it against the clock, of course, for class which sort of puts me on the defensive a bit when it comes to interpretation.
Carpentier writes about the disintgeration of Haitain political force- from Toussaint to Henri Christophe to the Duvaliers (!?)- with incendiary, incantatory power.This is vision to singe your eyes.
A short historical novel of Haiti around the time of that country’s slave revolt in 1804.
The story is told by a slave who is eventually freed in the revolution but simply ends up trading slavery for serfdom.
In fact he is re-enslaved for a time simply by passing by the site where the massive Sans-Souci palace is being constructed by slaves for King Henri Christophe and he is forced back into slavery.
After the 1804 revolt when the African slaves killed or drove off all the white population, in imitation of their former white masters, the new black and mulatto leaders basically enslaved an entire nation.
Ambientada en la colonia francesa de la Isla de Santo Domingo a finales del Siglo XVIII e inicios del Siglo XIX; narra los sucesos previos y posteriores a las guerras independentistas y revoluciones que enfrentaron a los esclavos contra los franceses para devenir en el primer país soberano del caribe y la primera república de negros libres: Haití.
Carpentier nos sumerge con locura en uno de los capítulos más ambivalentes de la historia del caribe, nos muestra la esperanza y la persistencia de los ritos africanos, de la religión africana y sus reales maravillas, refleja el instinto humano en búsqueda de su libertad.
Carpentier dice en el prólogo que la crónica de América no es sino la crónica de lo real maravilloso.
Y a decir verdad, si no hubiese estado googleando a los personajes reales y los escenarios y eventos que inspiraron a Carpentier, hubiese pensado que se trataba de un delirio del escritor.
Quizás lo más inverosímil de todo sea que una rebelión esclava, la primera del continente, haya resultado en la creación de un reino de Haití, con todo y palacetes versallescos, de negros europeizados que se dedicaron a explotar hasta la muerte a los ex-esclavos, que caído el sistema esclavista se volvían aún más prescindibles ya que ni siquiera valía dinero su vida.
تکان دهنده بود.
We are shown the events of the novel through the eyes of a slave, T.I. Noel, although the narration transports itself into other characters for brief amounts of time.
The reader is shown fantastic images of African deities and ideals; yet, all of it eventually comes crashing down around the Haitians, and the novel ends with T.I. Noel's reflections on what he has learned from humanity (it isn't positive or uplifting).
Even though everything ends in embers, I still took away a positive feeling of culture and community from this novel.
This is the book where Carpentier is credited with introducing the concept of "Magical Realism" (His actual term was "real marvelloso").
The book covers the history of Haiti from Macandal's uprising through the revolution that tossed out the French, to Henri Christophe's brutal regime and the building of his fortress that never fired a shot, to his downfall and the rise of the next brand of tyranny.
Good double feature with Wade Davis's wonderful non-fiction book on Haiti and Voudoun, "The Serpent and the Rainbow."
I had never heard of Alejo Carpentier until I came across this neat book, sadly, it's quite short (my edition was 89 pages).
2.5 zvezdice
El reino de este mundo, Alejo Carpentierعنوان: قلمرو این عالم ؛ آلخو کارپانتیه؛ مترجم: کاوه میرعباسی؛ تهران، نشر نیکا، 1391، در 175 ص؛ شابک: 9786005906455؛
This is a masterpiece of magical realism in the vein of Juan Rulfo’s Pedro Paramo. But where Rulfo’s prose is spare, Carpentier’s is baroque. As with Rulfo, Carpentier’s influence on Garcia Marquez can be clearly discerned here.
Recuerdo que cuando lo empecé a leer no me convencía, pero me alegro de haber insistido. Simplemente, me encantó.
For this reason, bowed down by suffering and duties, beautiful in the midst of his misery, capable of loving in the face of afflictions and trials, man finds his greatness, his fullest measure, only in the Kingdom of this World.'Reading this book was such a pleasure,intellectually and emotionally.There were so many passages which resonated with my sensibilities and made me experience an inner reverie.Alejo Carpentier is a writer whose legacy will endure just like that of Gabriel Garcia Marquez and Jorge Luis Borges...for he,like them, is a great explorer of human existence.
La constatación de ese elemento ambiguo (puesto que se lo refiere como "mágico" o "maravilloso" pero también se dice que está presente en la realidad) es lo que se nos revela en el texto.
Y esta revelación se lleva a cabo no mediante descripciones o explicaciones de cómo es ese elemento, de cómo se ha logrado captarlo, de por qué se lo llama "mágico", sino a través de los personajes mismos y de las situaciones que se suceden en el libro, que son, en gran parte, históricas (la novela transcurre en épocas de la lucha por la independencia de Haití en adelante).
O Reino deste mundo (1949), do escritor cubano Alejo Carpentier (1904–1980), é uma obra de ficção que tem como pano de fundo a Revolução Haitiana.Esperava uma narrativa mais detalhada e um enredo mais consistente. 14/198 - Cuba
Although this book is well-written, simple and sparse in style, and is full of interesting history, I just didn't connect with it. I found myself looking up many of the people and events because it was all new to me. I probably leaned heavily toward a three star rating except for the fact that it brought so much knowledge into my life. So I bumped it up to four.
Ovo je školski primer toga kako nedostatak predgovora može da baci čitaoca u enigmu ako ne zna istoriju Haitija, vudua, i čega sve ne. Malo je nezahvalno ovo čitati ako nemate brz Gugl.
First published in 1949, the book opens with a prologue which sets out to distinguish what the Cuban author calls the "marvellous reality" of Latin America from the surrealist marvellous of Europe:  But what many forget, in disguising themselves as cheap magicians, is that the marvellous becomes unequivocally marvellous when it arises from an unexpected alteration of reality ( a miracle), a privileged revelation of reality, an unaccustomed or singularly favourable illumination of the previously unremarked riches of reality, an amplification of the measures and categories of reality, perceived with peculiar intensity due to the exaltation of the spirit which elevates it to a kind of "limit state".Carpentier succeeds in this book in delivering beautiful and powerful magic realism.
Ti-Noel, who stands at the book's centre, is a black slave who believes in voodoo and its powerful magic.
